The largest diamond in the world, the Koh-i-Noor or "mountain of light," found in the mines
of Golconda, presented to the great Mogul, having passed through the hands of a succession
of murderous and plundering Shahs, had been brought to England and laid at the feet of Queen
Victoria as one of the fruits of her Afghan conquests, the year before the Exhibition. It was
now for the first time publicly displayed. Like many valuable articles, its appearance, marred
by bad cutting, did not quite correspond with the large estimate of its worth, about two millions.
In order to increase its effect, the precious clumsily-cut "goose's egg," relieved against
a background of crimson velvet in its strong cage, was shown by gas-light alone. Since those
days, the jewel has been cut, so that its radiance may have full play when it is worn by her
Majesty on great occasions. To keep the Koh-i-Noor in company, one of the largest emeralds
and one of the largest pearls in the world were in this Exhibition. So were "le saphir merveilleux"--of
amethystine colour by candle-light, once the property of Egalite Orleans, and the subject of
a tale by Madame Genlis-and a renowned Hungarian opal.

Hiram Powers's "Greek Slave" from America more than rivalled Monti's veiled statue from Italy,
while far surpassing both in majesty was Kiss's grand group of the "Mounted Amazon defending
herself from, the attack of a Lioness," cast in zinc and bronzed. Statues and statuettes of
the Queen abounded, and must have constantly met her eye, from Mrs. Thornycroft's spirited
equestrian statue to the great pedestal and statue, in zinc, of her Majesty, crowned, in robes
of State, with the sceptre in one hand and the orb in the other, modelled by Danton, which
stood in the centre of the foreign nave.

What enhanced the fascination of the scene to untravelled spectators was that without the deliberate
contrivance brought to perfection in the great Paris Exhibition, real Chinamen walked among
their junks and pagodas, Russians stood by their malachite gates, Turks hovered about their
carpets.

Women's quaint or exquisite work, whether professional or amateur, was not absent. It was notable
in the magnificent covers for the head and footboard of a bed which had occupied thirty girls
for many weeks, and in a carpet worked in squares by a company of ladies, and presented as
a tribute of their respect and love for the most unremittingly diligent woman in England, her
Majesty the Queen.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE QUEEN'S ACCOUNT OF THE OPENING OF THE EXHIBITION.

Of all the many descriptions of the Exhibition of 1851, which survive after more than thirty
years, the best are those written by the Queen, which we gratefully borrow, as we have already
borrowed so many of the extracts from her journal in the Prince's "Life."

Sir Theodore Martin has alluded to the special attraction lent to the Exhibition on its opening
day by the excitement of the glad ceremonial, the throng of spectators, the Court element with
"its splendid toilets" and uniforms, while Thackeray has a verse for the chief figure.

  Behold her in her royal place,
  A gentle lady, and the hand
  That sways the sceptre of this land,
  How frail and weak
  Soft is the voice and fair the face;
  She breathes amen to prayer and hymn
  No wonder that her eyes are dim,
  And pale her cheek.

But she has deigned to speak for herself, and no other speaks words so noble and tender in
their simplicity.

"May 1st.

"We began it with tenderest greetings for the birthday of our dear little Arthur. At breakfast
there was nothing but congratulations.... Mamma and Victor (the Queen's nephew, son of the
Princess of Hohenlohe, now well-known as Count Gleichen) were there, and all the children and
our guests. Our humble gifts of toys were added to by a beautiful little bronze replica of
the 'Amazon' (Kiss's) from the Prince (of Prussia), a beautiful paper-knife from the Princess
(of Prussia), and a nice little clock from mamma.

"The Park presented a wonderful spectacle, crowds streaming through it, carriages and troops
passing quite like the Coronation day, and for me the same anxiety; no, much greater anxiety,
on account of my beloved Albert. The day was bright, and all bustle and excitement.... At half-past
eleven the whole procession, in State carriages, was in motion.... The Green Park and Hyde
Park were one densely crowded mass of human beings in the highest good-humour and most enthusiastic.
I never saw Hyde Park look as it did, as far as the eye could reach. A little rain fell just
as we started, but before we came near the Crystal Palace the sun shone and gleamed upon the
gigantic edifice, upon which the flags of all the nations were floating. We drove up Rotten
Row and got out at the entrance on that side.

"The glimpse of the transept through the iron gates--the waving palms, flowers, statues, myriads
of people filling the galleries and seats around, with the flourish of trumpets as we entered,
gave us a sensation which, I can never forget, and I felt much moved. We went for a moment
to a little side-room, where we left our shawls, and where we found mamma and Mary (now Duchess
of Teck), and outside which were standing the other Princes. In a few seconds we proceeded,
Albert leading me, having Vicky at his hand, and Bertie holding mine. The sight as we came
to the middle, where the steps and chair (which I did not sit on) were placed, with the beautiful
crystal fountain in front of it, was magical--so vast, so glorious, so touching. One felt,
as so many did whom I have since spoken to, filled with devotion, more so than by any service
I have ever heard. The tremendous cheers, the joy expressed in every face, the immensity of
the building, the mixture of palms, flowers, trees, statues, fountains--the organ (with two
hundred instruments and six hundred voices, which sounded like nothing), and my beloved husband
the author of this peace festival, which united the industry of all nations of the earth--all
this was moving indeed, and it was and is a day to live for ever. The only event it in the
slightest degree reminded me of was the Coronation, but this day's festival was a thousand
times superior. In fact it is unique and can bear no comparison, from its peculiarity, beauty,
and combination of such different and striking objects. I mean the slight resemblance only
as to its solemnity; the enthusiasm and cheering, too, were much more touching, for in a church
naturally all is silent.

"Albert left my side after "God save the Queen" had been sung, and at the head of the commissioners,
a curious assemblage of political and distinguished men, read me the report, which is a long
one, and to which I read a short answer; after which the Archbishop of Canterbury offered up
a short and appropriate prayer, followed by the "Hallelujah Chorus," during which the Chinese
mandarin came forward and made his obeisance. This concluded, the procession began. It was
beautifully arranged and of great length, the prescribed order being exactly adhered to. The
nave was full, which had not been intended; but still there was no difficulty, and the whole
long walk, from one end to the other, was made in the midst of continued and deafening cheers
and waving of handkerchiefs. Everyone's face was bright and smiling, many with tears in their
eyes. Many Frenchmen called out "Vive la Reine!" One could, of course, see nothing but what
was near in the nave, and nothing in the courts. The organs were but little heard, but the
military band at one end had a very fine effect as we passed along. They played the march from
Athalie.... The old Duke and Lord Anglesey walked arm in arm, which was a touching sight. I
saw many acquaintances among those present. We returned to our own place, and Albert told Lord
Breadalbane to declare that the Exhibition was opened, which he did in a loud voice: 'Her Majesty
commands me to declare this Exhibition open,' which was followed by a flourish of trumpets
and immense cheering. All the commissioners, the executive committee, who worked so hard, and
to whom such immense praise is due, seemed truly happy, and no one more so than Paxton, who
may be justly proud; he rose from being a common gardener's boy. Everybody was astonished and
delighted, Sir George Grey (Home Secretary) in tears.

"The return was equally satisfactory, the crowd most enthusiastic, the order perfect. We reached
the palace at twenty minutes past one, and went out on the balcony and were loudly cheered,
the Prince and Princess (of Prussia) quite delighted and impressed. That we felt happy, thankful,
I need not say; proud of all that had passed, of my darling husband's success, and of the behaviour
of my good people. I was more impressed than I can say by the scene. It was one that can never
be effaced from my memory, and never will be from that of any one who witnessed it. Albert's
name is immortalised, and the wicked reports of dangers of every kind, which a set of people,
viz. the soi disant fashionables, the most violent Protectionists, spread, are silenced. It
is therefore doubly satisfactory, and that all should have gone off so well, and without the
slightest accident or mishap.... Albert's emphatic words last year, when he said that the feeling
would be that of deep thankfulness to the Almighty for the blessings which He has bestowed
on us here below this day realised....

"I must not omit to mention an interesting episode of this day, viz:-- the visit of the good
old Duke on this his eighty-second birthday to his little godson, our dear little boy. He came
to us both at five, and gave him a golden cup and some toys, which he had himself chosen, and
Arthur gave him a nosegay.

"We dined en famille, and then went to the Covent Garden Opera, where we saw the two finest
acts of the Huguenots given as beautifully as last year. I was rather tired, but we were both
so happy, so full of thankfulness! God is indeed our kind and merciful Father."

In answer to Lord John Russell's statement, on the close of the Exhibition, that the great
enterprise and the spirit in which it had been conducted would contribute "to give imperishable
fame to Prince Albert," the Queen asserted that year would ever remain the happiest and proudest
of her life.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE QUEEN'S "RESTORATION BALL" AND THE "GUILDHALL BALL."

The season of the first Exhibition was full of movement and gaiety, in which the Queen and
Prince Albert joined. They had also the pleasure of welcoming their brother and sister, the
Duke and Duchess of Saxe Coburg, who arrived to witness the Prince's triumph. As usual he came
forward on every occasion when his services, to which his position and personal gifts lent
double value, were needed--whether he presided at an Academy dinner, or at a meeting of the
Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, or laid the foundation of the Hospital for Consumption,
or attended the meeting of the British Association, and the Queen delighted in his popularity
and usefulness.

On the 4th of May Baroness Bunsen was at Stafford House "when her there," and thus describes
the Queen. "The Queen looked charming, and I could not help the same reflection that I have
often made before, that she is the only piece of female royalty I ever saw who was also a creature
such as almighty God has created. Her smile is a real smile, her grace is natural; although
it has received a high polish from cultivation, there is nothing artificial about it. Princes
I have seen several whose first characteristic is that of being men rather than princes, though
not many. The Duchess of Sutherland is the only person I have seen, when receiving the Queen,
not giving herself the appearance of a visitor in her own house by wearing a bonnet."

On the 16th of May the Queen and the Prince were at Devonshire House, when Lord Lytton's comedy
of "Not so Bad as we Seem" was played by Dickens, Foster, Douglas Jerrold, on behalf of the
new "Guild of Literature and Art," in which hopes for poor authors were cheerfully entertained.

On the 23rd of May Lord Campbell was anticipating the Queen's third costume ball with as much
complacency as if the eminent lawyer had been a young girl. "We are invited to the Queen's
fancy ball on the 13th of June," he wrote "where we are all to appear in the characters and
costume of the reign of Charles II. I am to go as Sir Matthew Hale, Chief Justice, and I am
now much occupied in considering my dress, that is to say, which robe I am to wear--scarlet,
purple, or black. The only new articles I shall have to order are my black velvet coif, a beard
with moustaches, and a pair of shoes with red heels, and red rosettes."

The period chosen for the Restoration Ball was the time midway between the dates of the Plantagenet
and the Powder Ball.

As on former occasions, the Court walked in procession to the throne- room, where each quadrille
passed in turn before the Queen and Prince Albert.

Her Majesty's dress was of grey watered silk, trimmed with gold and silver lace, and ornamented
with bows of rose-coloured riband fastened by bouquets of diamonds. The front of the dress
was open, and the under-skirt was made of cloth of gold embroidered in a shawl pattern in silver.
The gloves and shoes were embroidered alternately with roses and fleurs-de-lys in gold. On
the front of the body of the dress were four large pear-shaped emeralds of great value. The
Queen wore a small diamond crown on the top of her head, and a large emerald set in diamonds,
with pearl loops, on one side of the head; the hair behind plaited with pearls.

Prince Albert wore a coat of rich orange satin, brocaded with gold, the sleeves turned up with
crimson velvet, a pink silk epaulette on one shoulder; a baldrick of gold lace embroidered
with silver for the sword; the breeches of crimson velvet with pink satin bows and gold lace,
the stockings of lavender silk, the sash of white silk, gold fringed.

There were four national quadrilles. The English Quadrille was led by the Marchioness of Ailesbury;
the Scotch Quadrille was under the guidance of the young Marchioness of Stafford, daughter-in-law
of the Duke of Sutherland; the French Quadrille was led by Countess Flahault, the representative
of the old barons Keith, and the wife of a brilliant Frenchman; the Spanish Quadrille was marshalled
by Countess Granville. There were two more Quadrilles, the one under the control of the Countess
of Wilton, the other, called the "Rose Quadrille," led by Countess Grey.

With all due deference to the opinion of the late Mr. Henry Greville, the accounts of these
quadrilles leave the impression not only that they were arranged with finer taste, but that
a considerable advance had been made in artistic perception and sense of harmony. The ladies
in each quadrille were dressed alike, so were the gentlemen; thus there were no harsh contrasts.
In the English set the ladies wore blue and white silk gowns with trimmings of rose-colour
and gold. The gentlemen were in scarlet and gold, and blue velvet. Lady Waterford was in this
set, and Lady Churchill, daughter of the Marquis of Conyngham, long connected with the Court.
The Duke of Cambridge and Prince Edward of Saxe Weimar were among the gentlemen in the set.

Certainly it is a little hard to decide on what principle the exceedingly piquant costume of
the ladies in the Scotch Quadrille was classed as Scotch. The ladies wore riding-habits of
pale green taffeta ornamented with bows of pink ribbon, and had on grey hats with pink and
white feathers. Lady Stafford carried a jewelled riding-whip. The gentlemen were in Highland
costume.

In the French Quadrille the ladies wore white satin with bows of light blue ribbon opening
over cloth of gold. The gentlemen were in the uniform of Mousquetaires. In this quadrille danced
Lady Clementina Villiers, with her "marble-like beauty." She had ceased to be a Watteau shepherdess,
and she had lost her companion shepherdess of old, but her intellectual gifts and fine qualities
were developing themselves more and more. In the same dance was Lady Rose Lovell, the young
daughter of the Duke of Beaufort, whose elopement at the age of seventeen with a gallant one-armed
soldier had been condoned, so that she still played her part in the Court gala.

In the Spanish Quadrille the ladies wore black silk over grey damask, trimmed with gold lace
and pink rosettes, and Spanish mantillas. The gentlemen were in black velvet, with a Spanish
order embroidered in red silk on coat and cloak, grey silk stockings, and black velvet hats
with red and yellow feathers. In this quadrille were the matronly beauties Lady Canning, Lady
Jocelyn, and Lady Waldegrave.

After the quadrilles had been danced, the ladies falling into lines, advanced to the throne
and did reverence, the gentlemen forming in like manner and performing the same ceremony. Her
Majesty, and Prince Albert then proceeded to the ballroom, where Lady Wilton's and Lady Grey's
quadrilles were danced. In the Rose Quadrille the ladies wore rose-coloured skirts over white
moire, with rose-coloured bows and pearls, rose colour and pearls in the hair. Each lady wore
a single red rose on her breast.

After the quadrilles, the Queen opened the general ball by dancing the Polonnaise with Prince
Albert, the Duke of Cambridge, and Prince Edward of Saxe Weimar; Prince Albert dancing next
with the Duchess of Norfolk, the premier peeress present. The Queen danced after supper with
the Prince of Leiningen. He was at the Restoration as he had been at the Powder Ball, and wore
black velvet and gold lace with orange ribbons.

The characters seem to have been chosen with more point than before. The Countess of Tankerville
personated a Duchesse de Grammont, in right of her mother-in-law, Corisande de Grammont, grand-daughter
of Marie Antoinette's friend Gabrielle de Polignac.

Lady Ashburton was Madame de Sevigne, whose fashion of curls beginning in rings on the forehead
and getting longer and longer towards the neck, was as much in demand for the ladies, as Philip
Leigh's lovelocks were for the gentlemen.

Lady Hume Campbell was "La Belle Duchesse de Bourgogne;" Lady Middleton, Lucy Percy, Countess
of Carlisle. Mrs. Abbot Lawrence vindicated her American nationality by representing Anna Dudley,
the wife of an early governor of Massachusetts; Mr. Bancroft Davies, secretary of the United
States legation, figured as William Penn.

Lady Londonderry and Miss Burdett Coutts were still remarkable for the splendour of their jewels.
Lady Londonderry wore a girdle of diamonds, a diamond berthe, and a head-dress a blaze of precious
stones, the whole valued roughly at a hundred and fifty thousand pounds. Miss Burdett Coutts
displayed a band of jewels, after the fashion of the gentlemen's baldricks, passing over one
shoulder and terminating in a diamond clasp fastening back the upper skirt. After diamonds,
which, like the blossom of the gorse, may be considered as always a la mode, the specialities
of the Restoration Ball were Honiton lace, which was reckoned in better keeping with falling
collars than old point, and an enormous expenditure of ribbons. Some of the magnificent collars,
such as that of Lord Overton, were manufactured for the occasion. As for ribbons, not only
did ladies' dresses abound in bows and rosettes, the gentlemen's doublets, "trunks," and sleeves,
were profusely beribboned. The very shirt-sleeves, exposed by the coat- sleeves terminating
at the elbow, were bound and festooned with ribbons; while from the ends of the waistcoat hung
a waterfall of ribbons, like a Highlander's philabeg. Verily, the heart of Coventry must have
rejoiced; the Restoration Ball might have been got up for its special benefit.

The Duke of Wellington was in the scarlet and gold uniform of the period, but he alone of all
the gentlemen was privileged to wear his own scanty grey hair, which rendered him conspicuous.
The old man walked between his two daughters-in-law, Lady Douro and Lady Charles Wellesley.

Lord Galway wore a plain cuirass and gorget so severely simple that it might have been mistaken
for the guise of one of Cromwell's officers, who were otherwise unrepresented.

Mr. Gladstone was there as Sir Leoline Jenkins, judge of the High Court of Admiralty in Charles's
reign. His dress was copied from an engraving in the British Museum. It was quiet enough, but
it is difficult to realise "the grand old man" of to-day in a velvet coat turned up with blue
satin, ruffles and collar of old point, black breeches and stockings, and shoes with spreading
bows.

Sir Edwin Landseer, whom Miss Thackeray has described as helping to dress some of the ladies
for this very ball, was so studiously plain that it must have looked like a protest against
the use of "properties" in his apparel. He wore a dress of black silk, with no cloak, no mantle,
no skirts to his coat. Round his neck was a light blue scarf, hanging low behind. He had on
a grey wig, imitating partial baldness. There could have been no doubt of the historical correctness
of the dress, though there might have been some question of its becomingness.

There were changes of some importance in the royal household at this time, caused by the retirement
of General, afterwards Sir George Bowles, the Master of the Household, and of Mr. Birch, tutor
to the Prince of Vales. With the assistance of Baron Stockmar, fitting successors for those
gentlemen were found in Sir Thomas Biddulph and Mr. Frederick Gibbes.

The ball at Guildhall had been fixed for the 2nd of July, but the day was changed when it was
remembered that the 2nd was the anniversary of the death of Sir Robert Peel. The entertainment
was a very splendid affair. The city was continually progressing in taste and skill in these
matters, and the times were so prosperous as to admit of large expenditure without incurring
the charge of reckless extravagance. The Queen, Prince Albert, and their suite left Buckingham
Palace, in State carriages, at nine o'clock on the summer evening, and drove through brilliantly
illuminated streets, densely crowded with large numbers of foreigners as well as natives.

The great hall where the ball took place was magnificently fitted up, many ideas for the decoration
being borrowed from the Exhibition. Thus there was a striking array of banners emblazoned with
the arms of the nations and cities which had contributed to the Exhibition. "Above the centre
shaft of each cluster of columns, shot up towards the roof a silver palm-tree, glittering and
sparkling in the brilliant light so profusely shed around. On touching the roof these spread
forth and ended in long branches of bright clustering broad leaves of green and gold, from
which hung pendant rich bunches of crimson and ruby sparkling fruit." The compartments beneath
the balconies were filled with pictures of the best known and most admired foreign contributions
to the Exhibition--such as the Amazon group, the Malachite gates, the Greek Slave; &c., &c.
Huge griffins had their places at the corners of the dais supporting the throne, while above
it a gigantic plume of Prince of Wales's feathers reared itself in spun glass. The chambers
and corridors of the Mansion House were fitted up with "acres of looking-glass, statuary, flowers,
&c., &c.," provided for the crowd of guests that could not obtain admittance to the hall, where
little room was left for dancing. The supper, to which the Queen was conducted, was in the
crypt. It was made to resemble a baronial hall, "figures in mediaeval armour being scattered
about as the bearers of the lights which illuminated the chamber." Before leaving, in thanking
the Lord Mayor (Musgrove) for his hospitality, the Queen announced her intention of creating
him a baronet. Her Majesty and the Prince took their departure at one o'clock, returning to
Buckingham Palace through the lit streets and huzzaing multitude.

CHAPTER XX.

ROYAL VISITS TO LIVERPOOL AND MANCHESTER--CLOSE OF THE EXHIBITION.

On the 27th of August the Court left for Balmoral, travelling for the most part by the Great
Northern Railway, but not, as now, making a rapid night and day journey. On the contrary, the
journey lasted three days, with pauses for each night's rest between. Starting from Osborne
at nine, the Royal party reached Buckingham Palace at half-past twelve. Halting for an hour
and a half, they set off again at two. They stopped at Peterborough, where old Dr. Fisher,
the Bishop, was able to greet in his Queen the little Princess who had repeated her lessons
to him in Kensington Palace. No longer a solitary figure but for the good mother, she was herself
a wife and mother, the happiest of the happy in both relations. The train stopped again at
Boston and Lincoln for the less interesting purpose of the presentation and reception of congratulatory
addresses on the Exhibition. The same ceremony was gone through at Doncaster where the party
stayed for the night at the Angel Inn.

Leaving before nine on the following morning, after changing the line of railway at York, and
stopping at Darlington and Newcastle, Edinburgh was reached in the course of the afternoon.
Her Majesty and the Prince, with their children, proceeded to Holyrood, and before the evening
was ended drove for an hour through the beautiful town. Here, too, the Exhibition bore its
fruit in the honour of knighthood conferred on the Lord Provost.

On the third morning the travellers left again at eight o'clock, and journeyed as far as Stonehaven,
where the royal carriages met them, and conveyed them to Balmoral, which was reached by half-past
six. The Prince had now bought the castle and estate, seven miles in length, and four in breadth,
and plans were formed for a new house more suitable for the accommodation of so large a household.

On the day after the Queen and Prince Albert's arrival in the Highlands, he received the news
of the death of his uncle, brother to the late Duke of Coburg and to the Duchess of Kent, Duke
Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg.

There is little to record of the happy sojourn in the North this year, with its deer-stalking,
riding and driving, except that Hallam, the historian, and Baron Liebig, the famous chemist,
visited Sir James Clark, the Queen's physician, at Birkhall, which he occupied, and were among
the guests at Balmoral.

It had been arranged that the Queen and the Prince should visit Liverpool and Manchester on
their way south, in order to give the great cities of Lancashire the opportunity of greeting
and welcoming their Sovereign. It was the 8th of October before the royal party set out on
their homeward journey, ending the first of the shortening days at Holyrood.

On the following day the strangers went on to the ancient dull little town of Lancaster, and
drove to the castle, where the keys were presented, and an address read under John O'Gaunt's
gateway. The tower stairs were mounted for the view over Morcambe Bay and the English lake
country on the one hand, and away across level lands to the sea on the other. Every native
of the town "wore a red rose or a red rosette, as emblems of the House of Lancaster."

The Queen and the Prince then proceeded to Prescot, where they left the railway, driving through
Lord Derby's fine park at Knowsley, to be the guests of the Earl of Sefton at Croxteth. Next
morning, when Liverpool was to be visited, a contretemps occurred. The weather was hopelessly
wet; the whole party had to go as far as possible in closed carriages; afterwards the downpour
was so irresistible that the Prince's large cloak had to be spread over the Queen and her children
to keep them dry. But her Majesty's commiseration is almost entirely for the crowd on foot,
"the poor people so wet and dirty." They spoil her pleasure in her enthusiastic reception and
the fine buildings she passes.

The royal party drove along the docks, and in spite of the rain got out at the appointed place
of embarkation, went on board the Fairy, accompanied by the Mayor and other officials, and
sailed along the quays round the mouth of the Mersey, surveying the grand mass of shipping
from the pavilion on deck as well as the dank mist would permit. On landing, the Town Hall
and St. George's Hall were visited in succession. In the first the Queen received an address
and knighted the Mayor. She admired both buildings--particularly St. George's, which she called
"worthy of ancient Athens," and said it delighted Prince Albert. At both halls she presented
herself on balconies in order to gratify the multitudes below.

The Queen left Liverpool by railway, going as far as Patricroft, where she was received by
Lady Ellesmere and a party from Worsley, including the Duke of Wellington, Lord and Lady Westminster,
and Lord and Lady Wilton. Her Majesty was to try a mode of travelling new to her. She had arrived
at the Bridgewater Canal, one of the greatest feats of engineering in the last century, constructed
by the public-spirited, eccentric Duke of Bridgewater, and Brindley the engineer. The Queen
went on board a covered barge drawn by four horses. She describes the motion as gliding along
"in a most noiseless and dream-like manner, amidst the cheers of the people who lined the sides
of the canal." Thus she passed under the "beautifully decorated bridges" belonging to Lord
Ellesmere's colliery villages.

Only at the hall-door of Worsley were Lord Ellesmere, lame with gout, and Lord Brackley, his
son, "terribly delicate" from an accident in the hunting-field, the husband of one of the beautiful
Cawdor Campbells, able to meet their illustrious guests. Henry Greville says her Majesty brought
with her four children, two ladies-in-waiting, two equerries, a physician, a tutor, and a governess.
Men of mechanical science seem to belong to Worsley, so that it sounds natural for the Queen
and the Prince to have met there, during the evening, Nasmyth, the inventor of the steam-hammer,
and to have examined his maps of his investigations in the moon, and his landscape-drawings,
worthy of his father's son. The Queen and Prince Albert derived great pleasure from their passing
intercourse with a man of varied gifts, whose sterling qualities they could well appreciate.

The next morning, the 10th of October, the weather was all that could be wished, but another
and even more unfortunate complication threatened the success of the arrangements, on which
the comfort of a few and the gratification of many thousands of persons depended. Prince Albert,
never strong, was always liable to trying attacks of sleeplessness and sickness. In the course
of the night he had been "very unwell, very sick and wretched for several hours." "I was terrified
for our Manchester visit" wrote the Queen in her journal. "Thank God! by eight o'clock he felt
much better, and was able to get up" indefatigable as ever.

At ten the party started to drive the seven miles to Manchester, escorted by Yeomanry and a
regiment of Lancers, Lord Cathcart and his staff riding near the Queen's carriage through an
ever-increasing crowd. The Queen was greatly interested in the rows of mill-workers between
whom she passed, "dressed in their best, ranged along the streets, with white rosettes in their
button-holes"--that patient, easily pleased crowd, which has an aspect half comical, half pathetic.
Her Majesty admired the intelligent expression of both men and women, but was painfully struck
with their puniness and paleness. In the Peel Park the visitors were greeted by a great demonstration,
which her Majesty calls "extraordinary and unprecedented," of no less than eighty-two thousand
school children, of every denomination, Jews as well as Christians. The Queen received and
replied to an address, from her carriage, and the immense body of children sang "God save the
Queen."

The party then drove through the principal streets of Salford and Manchester--the junction
of the two being marked by a splendid triumphal arch, under which the Mayor and Corporation
(dressed for the first time in robes of office--so democratic was Manchester), again met the
Queen and presented her with a bouquet. At the Exchange she alighted to receive another address,
to which she read an answer, and knighted the Mayor. Her Majesty missed "fine buildings," of
which, with the exception of huge warehouses and factories, Manchester had then none to boast;
but she was particularly struck by the demeanour of the inhabitants, in addition to what she
was pleased to call their "most gratifying cheering and enthusiasm." "The order and good behaviour
of the people, who were not placed behind any barriers, were the most complete we have seen
in our many progresses through capitals and cities--London, Glasgow, Dublin, Edinburgh--for
there never was a running crowd, nobody moved and therefore everybody saw well, and there was
no squeezing...." The Queen heard afterwards that she had seen a million of human beings that
day. In the afternoon her Majesty and the Prince, returned to Worsley.

Henry Greville tells an almost piteous incident of this visit, in relation to the Duke of Wellington
and his advanced age, with the infirmities that could no longer be repelled. After saying that
in order to prevent the procession's becoming too large, no other guest at Worsley was admitted
into it, except the privileged old Duke, whom the teller of the story describes as driving
in the carriage with Henry Greville's sister, Lady Enfield, one of the ladies in attendance
on the Queen, he goes on to mention "he (the Duke) was received with extraordinary enthusiasm;
notwithstanding Lady Enfield had to nudge him constantly, to keep him awake, both going and
coming, with very little success." Lady Enfield adds a note to her brother's narrative. "The
whole scene was one of the most exciting I ever saw in my life. Being carried away by the general
enthusiasm, and feeling that the people would be disappointed if no notice was taken of their
cheering, I at last exclaimed 'Duke, Duke, that's for you.' Thereupon he opened his eyes, and
obediently made his well-known salutation, two fingers to the brim of his hat."

The next morning when the Prince had started by seven o'clock to inspect a model factory near
Bolton, while there was a long and busy day before them, the Queen made a little entry in her
journal which will find a sorrowful echo in many a faithful heart, "This day is full of sad
recollections, being the anniversary of the loss of my beloved Louise (Queen of the Belgians),
that kind, precious friend, that angelic being whose loss I shall ever feel."

The same pleasant passage was made by the canal back to Patricroft, where the railway carriages
were entered and the train steamed to Stockport. Crewe, Stafford--there another old soldier,
Lord Anglesey, was waiting--Rugby, Weedon, Wolverton, and Watford, then at five o'clock the
railway journey ended. The royal carriages were in attendance, and rest and home were near
at hand. The day had been hot and fatiguing, but the evening was soft and beautiful with moonlight;
a final change of horses at Uxbridge, the carriage shut when the growing darkness prevented
any farther necessity for seeing and being seen; at half-past seven, Windsor, and the three
little children still up and at the door "well and pleased."

From Windsor the Court went for some days to London for the closing of the Exhibition. The
number of visitors had been six millions two hundred thousand, and the total receipts five
hundred thousand pounds. There had not been a single accident, "We ought, indeed, to be thankful
to God for such a success," the Prince wrote reverently. On the 14th of October the Queen paid
a farewell visit to the place in which she had been so much interested, with the regret natural
on such an occasion. "It looked so beautiful," she wrote in her journal, "that I could not
believe it was the last time I was to see it." But already the dismantling had begun.

The Queen refers in the next breath to a heroine of the Exhibition, an old Cornish woman named
Mary Kerlynack, who had found the spirit to walk several hundreds of miles to behold the wonder
of her generation. This day she was at one of the doors to see another sight, the Queen. "A
most hale old woman" her Majesty thought Mary, "who was near crying at my looking at her."

On the 15th, a cheerlessly wet day, in keeping with a somewhat melancholy scene, Prince Albert
and his fellow commissioners closed the Exhibition--a ceremony at which it was not judged desirable
the Queen should be present, though she grieved not to witness the end as well as the beginning.
"How sad and strange to think this great and bright time has passed away like a dream," her
Majesty wrote once more in her diary. The day of the closing of the Exhibition happened to
be the twelfth anniversary of the Queen's betrothal to the Prince.

The tidings arrived in the course of November of the death, in his eighty-first year, in the
old palace of Herrenhausen, on the 18th of the month, of the King of Hanover, the fifth, and
last surviving son of George III and Queen Charlotte. He had been more popular as a king than
as a prince.

The arrival of Kossuth in England in the autumn of 1851 had brought a disturbing element into
international politics. But it was left for Louis Napoleon's coup d'etat in Paris on the 2nd
of December, when the blood shed so mercilessly on the Boulevards was still fresh in men's
minds, to get Lord Palmerston into a dilemma, from which there was no disentanglement but the
loss of office on his part.

An impetus, great though less lasting than it seemed, was given this year to emigration to
Australia, by the discovery in the colony of gold in quartz beds, under much the same conditions
that the precious metal had been found in California. The diggings, with the chance of a large
nugget, became for a time the favourite dream of adventurers. Nay, the dream grew to such an
absorbing desire, that men heard of it as a disease known as "the gold fever." And quiet people
at home were told that it was hardly safe for a ship to enter some of the Australian harbours,
on account of the certainty of the desertion of the crew, under whatever penalties, that they
might repair to the last El Dorado.

The successful ambition of Louis Napoleon and his power over the French army, began to excite
the fears of Europe with regard to French aggression, and a renewal of the desolating wars
of the beginning of the century; before the talk about the Exhibition and the triumphs of peace
had well died on men's lips. The Government was anxious to fall back on the old resource of
calling out the militia, with certain modifications and changes--brought before Parliament
in the form of a Militia Bill. It did not meet with the approval of the members any more than
of the Duke of Wellington, whose experience gave his opinion much weight. Lord Palmerston spoke
with great ability against the measure. The end was that the Government suffered a defeat,
and the Ministry resigned office in February, 1852. This time Lord Derby was successful in
forming a new Cabinet, in which Mr. Disraeli was Chancellor of the Exchequer. A fresh Militia
Bill was brought forward and carried by the new Government, after it had received the warm
advocacy of the Duke of Wellington. The old man spoke in its favour with an amount of vigour
and clear-headedness which showed that however his bodily strength might be failing, his mental
power remained untouched.

CHAPTER XXI.

DISASTERS--YACHTING TRIPS--THE DEATH OF THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON.

The month of February, 1852, was unhappily distinguished by three great English calamities,
accompanied by extensive loss of life. The first was the destruction of the West India mail
steamer Amazon by fire, as she was entering the Bay of Biscay, in which a hundred and forty
persons perished, among them Eliot Warburton, the accomplished traveller and author.

The second was the wreck of her Majesty's troop-ship Birkenhead near the Cape of Good Hope,
with the loss of upwards of four hundred lives, in circumstances when the discipline and devotion
of the men were of the noblest description. The third was the bursting of the Bilberry Reservoir
in midland England, with the sacrifice of nearly a hundred lives and a large amount of property.

When the season commenced, and it was this year, as last, particularly gay, a reflection of
the general prosperity of the country, with the high hopes inspired by the Australian gold-fields,
the Queen wrote to the King of the Belgians in order to re-assure him with regard to a fear
which seems to have arisen in the elderly man's mind, that she whom he remembered at the beginning
of her reign as fond of pleasure and untiring in her amusements, might be swept away in the
tide. "Allow me just to say one word about the London season. The London season for us consists
of two State balls and two concerts. (The State balls and concerts are given to this day, though
her Majesty, since her widowhood, has ceased to attend them. The Queen's place and that of
Prince Albert in these social gaieties, have been naturally taken by the Prince and Princess
of Wales.) We are hardly ever later than twelve o'clock at night, and our only dissipation
is going three or four times a week to the play or opera, which is a great amusement and relaxation
to us both. As for going out as people do here every night, to balls and parties, and to breakfasts
and teas all day long besides, I am sure no one would stand it worse than I should; so you
see, dearest uncle, that in fact the London season is nothing to us."

So much higher, and more solid and lasting, as they should have been, were the pursuits and
gratifications of the woman, the wife and mother, than of the young girl.

The Queen added that the only one who was fagged was the Prince, and that from business and
not pleasure, a result which made her often anxious and unhappy. Indeed, this suspicion of
precarious health on Prince Albert's part was the cloud the size of a man's hand that kept
hovering on the horizon in the summer sky.

Parliament was prorogued and dissolved at the same time at an unusually early date, the first
of July, so that the season itself came to a speedy end.

Before the Queen left London, she was present at the baptism and stood sponsor for the young
Hindoo Princess Gouromma, the pale, dark, slender girl whose picture looks down on the visitor
at Buckingham Palace. She had been brought to England by her father, the Rajah of Coorg, a
high-caste Hindoo, who desired that she should be brought up a Christian. He was one of the
princes of Northern India, whose inheritance had become a British possession. He lived at Benares
under the control of the East India Company, and had an allowance from Government as well as
a large private fortune. The little princess was the same age as the Princess Royal, eleven
years. She was the daughter of the Rajah's favourite wife, who had died immediately after the
infant's birth. The ceremony took place in the private chapel of Buckingham Palace. The Archbishop
of Canterbury officiated. Besides the Queen, the sponsors were Lady Hardinge, Mr. Drummond,
and Sir James Weir Hogg, the chairman of the East India Company. The little girl received the
name "Victoria." The Rajah returned soon afterwards to India.

The Court had longer time to enjoy the sea air and quiet of Osborne, where, however, sorrow
intruded in the shape of the news of the death of Count Mensdorff, the uncle by marriage both
of the Queen and Prince Albert, to whom they were warmly attached. Though he had been no prince,
only a French emigrant officer in the Austrian service, when he married the sister of the Duchess
of Kent, he was held in high esteem by his wife's family for the distinction with which he
had served as a soldier, and for his many good qualities.

Princess Hohenlohe, with a son and daughter, came to Osborne as a stage to Scotland and Abergeldie,
where she was to visit her mother, the Duchess of Kent, and where she could also best enjoy
the Queen's society. The poor Princess, who made a stay of several months in this country,
had need of a mother's and a sister's sympathy. A heavy sorrow had lately befallen her. The
eldest daughter of the Hohenlohe family, Princess Elise, a girl of great promise, had died
at Venice of consumption in her twenty-first year.

Yachting excursions were again made to Devonshire and Cornwall, to Torquay and the often-visited
beauties of Mount Edgcumbe and the banks of the Tamar. There was a proposal of a visit to the
King of the Belgians, with the Channel Islands to be touched at on the way. One part of the
programme had to be given up, on account of the tempestuous weather. The yacht, after waiting
to allow Prince Albert to pay a flying visit--the last--to the Duke of Wellington at Walmer,
ran up the Scheldt in one of the pauses in the storm, and the travellers reached Antwerp at
seven o'clock on the morning of the 11th of August, "in a hurricane of wind and rain."

But the weather is of little consequence when friends meet. King Leopold was waiting for his
welcome guests, and immediately carried them off to his country palace, for their visit this
time was to him and not to any of the old Flemish towns.

The Queen and Prince Albert, with their children, stayed at Laeken for three days, returning
to Antwerp in time for a visit to the cathedral and the museum, before sailing in the same
unpropitious weather for Flushing. The intention was still to cross on the following morning
to the Channel Islands, but the wet, wild weather did not change, and the yacht remained where
it was, the Queen indemnifying herself for the disappointment by landing and going over an
old Dutch town and a farmhouse, with which she was much pleased.

On the 30th of August the Court went to Balmoral by Edinburgh. Soon after her arrival the Queen
had the gratifying intelligence that a large legacy, about two hundred and fifty thousand pounds,
had been left to her and her heirs by one of her subjects--Mr. Campden Nield-- a gentleman
without near relatives, who had lived in the most penurious way, denying himself the very necessaries
of life.

The Queen's comment on the bequest to King Leopold was like her. "It is astonishing, but it
is satisfactory to see that people have so much confidence that it will not be thrown away,
and so it certainly will not be." Baron Stockmar held with some justice that it was "a monument
reared to the Queen during her life, in recognition of her simple, honourable, and constitutional
career."

Her Majesty and Prince Albert went on the 16th of September for their customary two days' stay
by Loch Muich, though they had been startled in the morning by a newspaper report of the death
of the Duke of Wellington at Walmer. But the rumour had arisen so often during these many years
that nobody believed it, now that it was true.

The little party started in the course of the forenoon on a showery day. Arrived at the Loch,
the Queen walked up the side to Alt-na- Dearg, a "burn" and fall, then rode up the ravine hung
with birch and mountain-ash, and walked again along the top of the steep hills to points which
command a view of Lord Panmure's country, "Mount Keen and the Ogilvie Hills."

A little farther on, while resting and looking down on the Glassalt Shiel and the head of the
loch, the Queen, by a curious coincidence, missed the watch which the Duke of Wellington had
given her. Her Majesty sent back a keeper to inquire about her loss; in the meanwhile she walked
on and descended by the beautiful falls of the Glassalt, one hundred and fifty feet in height,
which she compares to those of the Bruar. The cottage or shiel of the Glassalt had just been
built for the Queen, and offered accommodation in its dainty little dining- room and drawing-room
for her to rest and refresh herself. After she had eaten luncheon, she set out again on a pony,
passed another waterfall, called the Burn of the Spullan, and reached the wild solitary Dhu Loch.

The Queen had sat down to sketch when the keeper returned to tell her that the watch was safe
at home; but that was not all. He brought a letter from Lord Derby with a melancholy confirmation
of the report of the morning. The Duke of Wellington was dead. The Queen calls the news "fatal,"
and with something of the fond exaggeration of a daughter, writes of the dead man as "England's--rather
Britannia's--pride, her glory, her hero, the greatest man she ever had produced."

We can understand it, when we remember how closely connected he was with all her previous career,
from her cradle till now. He had taken pride in her, advised her, obeyed her, with half a father's,
half a servant's devotion. The King of the Belgians was hardly more her second father than
the Duke of Wellington had been.

Besides, the Duke was not only a soldier; he had been a statesman, tried and true as far as
his vision extended; brave here no less than in the stricken field, honest with an upright
man's straightforwardness, wise with a practical man's sense of what could and could not be
done, what must be yielded when the time came.

The Queen might well mourn for her grey-bearded captain, her faithful old councillor. There
was one comfort, that the Duke had reached a good old age, and died after a few hours illness,
without suffering. He simply fell asleep, and awoke no more in this world. His old antagonist,
Marshal Soult, had pre-deceased him only by a few months.

The Queen sums up the position: "One cannot think of this country without 'the Duke,' our immortal
hero."

Her Majesty hastened down on foot to the head of Loch Muich, and rode back in the rain to Alt-na-Giuthasach
to write to Lord Derby and Lord Charles Wellesley, who had been with his father in his last hours.

Invitations were countermanded, and the Court went into mourning. The Queen was right that
the sorrow was universal. The ships in the Thames and in all the English ports had their flags
half-mast high, the church bells were tolled, business was done "with the great exchanges half-shuttered,"
garrison music was forbidden.

The Duke had left no directions with regard to his funeral, and it was fitting that it should
receive the highest honour Sovereign and people could pay. But the Queen refrained from issuing
an order, preferring that the country should take the initiative. It was necessary to wait
till the 11th of November, when Parliament must meet. In the meantime the body of the Duke
was placed under a Guard of Honour at Walmer. Viscount Hardinge was appointed Commander-in-Chief.

The Court left Balmoral on the 12th of October, about a month after the Duke of Wellington's
death, and on the 11th--a day which the Queen calls in her journal "a very happy, lucky, and
memorable one"--her Majesty and Prince Albert, with their family, household, tenants, servants,
and poorer neighbours, ascended Craig Gowan, a hill near Balmoral, for the purpose of building
a cairn, which was to commemorate the Queen and the Prince's having taken possession of their
home in the north. At the "Moss House," half-way up, the Queen's piper met her, and preceded
her, playing as he went. Not the least welcome among the company already collected were the
children of the keepers and other retainers, with whom her Majesty was familiar in their own
homes. She calls them her "little friends," and enumerates them in a motherly way, "Mary Symons,
and Lizzie Stewart, the four Grants, and several others."

The Queen laid the first stone of the cairn, Prince Albert the next. Their example was followed
by the Princes and Princesses, according to their ages, and by the members of the household.
Finally every one present "came forward at once, each person carrying a stone and placing it
on the cairn." The piper played, whiskey was handed round. The work of building went on for
an hour, during which "some merry reels were danced on a flat stone opposite." All the old
people danced, apparently to her Majesty's mingled gratification and diversion. Again the happy
mother of seven fine children notices particularly the children and their performance. "Many
of the children--Mary Symons and Lizzie Stewart especially--danced so nicely, the latter with
her hair all hanging down."

There is another little paragraph which is very characteristic of the love of animals, and
the faithful remembrance of old landmarks, well- known features in the Queen's character. "Poor
dear old Monk, Sir Robert Gordon's (the former owner of Balmoral) faithful old dog, was sitting
there among us all."

When the cairn ("seven or eight feet high") was all but finished, Prince Albert climbed to
the top and deposited the last stone, when three cheers were given. The Queen calls it "a gay,
pretty, and touching sight," that almost made her cry. "The view was so beautiful over the
dear hills; the day so fine, the whole so gemuethlich." She ends reverently, "May God bless
this place, and allow us to see it and enjoy it many a long year."

CHAPTER XXII.

THE IRON DUKE'S FUNERAL.

On the 11th of November the Parliament met and voted the Duke a public funeral in the City
cathedral of St. Paul's, by the side of Nelson, the great soldier and the great sailor bearing
each other company in their resting-place, in the middle of the people whom they had saved
from foreign dominion.

The hearse with the body had left Walmer at seven o'clock on the morning of the 10th, minute
guns being fired in succession from the castles of Walmer, Deal, and Sandown, startling the
sea-mews hovering over the Goodwin Sands, causing the sailors in the foreign vessels in the
Downs to ask if England had gone to war. From the railway station in London, the coffin was
escorted by Life Guards to Chelsea, where it was received by the Lord Chamberlain and conducted
to the great hall for the lying-in-state, which occupied four days.

The fine old hospital, where so many of the Duke's soldiers had found refuge, which Wilkie
had painted for him at the moment when the pensioners were listening to the reading of the
Gazette that announced the victory of Waterloo, was carefully prepared for the last scene but
one of a hero's life. Corridors, vestibule, and hall were hung with black cloth and velvet,
and lit with tall candles in silver candelabra. Trophies of tattered banners, the spoils of
the many victories of him who had just yielded to the last conqueror, were surmounted by the
royal standard; Grenadiers lined hall and vestibule, their heads bent over their reversed arms.
A plumed canopy of black velvet and silver was raised over a dais, with a carpet of cloth of
gold, on which rested the gilt and crimson coffin. At the foot of the bier hung the mace and
insignia of the late Duke's numerous orders of knighthood; and on ten pedestals, with golden
lions in front, were the eight field-marshals' batons of eight different kingdoms, which had
been bestowed on him. On the ninth and tenth pedestals were placed the Great Banner and the
banner of Wellesley.

The Queen and Prince Albert came privately with their children, early on the first day, a windy,
rainy Saturday in November, to view the lying-in-state.

On the night before the funeral the coffin was removed to the Horse Guards, over which Wellington
had so long presided, where it is said that in the early days of his career he met Nelson.
Early next morning the coffin was conveyed to a pavilion on the parade, whence it was lifted
to the car which was to convey it to St. Paul's.

Not later than six o'clock on the morning of the 18th, the troops in large numbers began to
muster in Hyde Park, under the direction of the Duke of Cambridge. The streets and windows
were lined with seats covered with black cloth. Barriers were raised at the mouths of the side
streets in the line of route, to prevent the danger of any side rush. In the dread of missing
the sight, hundreds of people took up their position the night before, and kept it during the
dark hours, in spite of wind and rain. All the richer classes were in mourning; indeed, whoever
could bring out a scrap of black did so. There was a peculiar hush and touch of solemnity,
which had its effect on the roughest in the million and a half of spectators.

At a quarter before eight, nineteen minute guns were fired in the park, the walls of the pavilion
were suddenly drawn up, revealing the funeral car and its sacred burden. Instantly the troops
presented arms for the last time to their late commander, and the drums beat "a long and heavy
roll, increasing like the roll of thunder." The words "to reverse arms" were then given, and
the funeral procession began to move. First came battalion after battalion of infantry, commencing
with the rifles, the bands playing "The Dead March in Saul," the trumpets of the cavalry taking
up "the wailing notes." "As the dark mass of the rifles appeared, and the solemn dead march
was heard, the people were deeply affected, very many of both sexes to tears.... Great interest
was felt as the Duke's regiment, the 33rd, passed." Squadrons of cavalry were succeeded by
seventeen guns; the Chelsea Pensioners, old men, like him whose remains they followed, to the
number of eighty three--his years on earth; one soldier from every regiment in her Majesty's
service, to say that none had been left out, when their leader was borne to his grave; standards
and pennons; deputations from public bodies--Merchant Taylors' Company, East India Company,
and the deputation from the Common Council of London, joining the procession at Temple Bar;
more standards, high officials, Sheriffs, and Knights of the Bath; the Judges, members of the
Ministry, and Houses of Parliament; the Archbishop of Canterbury; the Lord Mayor of London
carrying the City Sword; His Royal Highness Prince Albert, attended by the Marquesses of Exeter
and Abercorn-- Lord Chamberlain and Groom of the Stole; the Great Banner, borne by an officer,
and supported by two officers on horseback; the Field- marshals' batons--each carried by a
foreign officer of high rank-- which every country in Europe, except France and Austria, had
entrusted to the care of the Great Duke. To the imposing scene to-day France, like an honorable
enemy, sent a representative; but Austria, still smarting under the affront to Haynau, was
conspicuous by absence. The English Field-marshal's baton was borne on its cushion by the Duke's
old comrade in arms, the Marquis of Anglesey. The Duke's coronet followed. Then the pall-bearers--eight
generals in mourning coaches. At length the huge funeral car, heavily wrought and emblazoned
and inscribed with the names of the Duke's battles, drawn by twelve horses, with five officers
on horseback, bearing the banneroles of the lineage of the deceased, riding on either side.
On the car was placed the coffin, and on the coffin rested the hat and sword of the dead commander....
Every emotion, save that of solemn awe, was hushed. The massive structure moved on its course
with a steady pressure, and produced a heavy dull sound, as it ground its path over the road....
But the car, apart from its vast size, passed unnoticed, for on its highest stage rested a
red velvet coffin, which contained all that was mortal of England's greatest son. It seemed
that a thousand memories of his great and long career were awakened at the sight of that narrow
tenement of so great a man.... The voice which had cried "Up, Guards, and at them!" at the
critical moment on the afternoon of that rainy Sunday at Waterloo, thirty-seven years before,
was silent for ever. The sagacious and skilled brain which had planned so well the defence
of London from the threatened outbreak of the Chartists, would plan no more for Queen and country.
No longer would the shouting crowd press round him on every gala, and strangers watch patiently
near the Horse Guards for one of the sights of London-- the eagle face of the conqueror of
him who conquered Europe.

  "No more in soldier fashion would he greet,
  With lifted hand, the gazer in the street."

Wellington was making his way from the Horse Guards for the last time, attended by such a mighty
multitude as seldom waits on the steps of Kings, hardly ever with such mute reverence as they
gave him that day. The "good grey head" of "the last Great Englishman" was about to be laid
in the dust, and his best epitaph was Tennyson's line--

  "One that sought but duty's iron crown."

Behind the car came the chief mourner, accompanied by his younger brother, with cousins and
relatives to the last degree of kindred, and friends filling a long train of mourning coaches.
Then followed what moved the people more than all the splendour, because it came like a touch
of homely nature appealing to all, in a familiar part of the life that was gone, the late Duke's
horse, led by John Mears, his aged groom. The horse might have been "Copenhagen," which had
borne the Duke in the thick of his greatest battle, and died long since at Strathfieldsaye,
so eagerly did the crowds gaze on it. More carriages and troops closed the march.

And she was not absent who had held the dead man in such high esteem, whom he had so loved
and honoured. From two different points--as if she were reluctant to see the last of her old
friend--from the balcony of Buckingham Palace, where the Royal Standard floated half-mast high,
as the funeral passed up Constitution Hill, and again from the windows of St. James's Palace,
as the melancholy train went down St. James's Street, the Queen, surrounded by her children
and her young cousins from Belgium, looked down on the solemn pageant.

Nearly twenty thousand privileged persons--many of them of high rank, filled St. Paul's, black-draped
and gas-lit on the dark November day. After the funeral company were seated, the body, which
had been received at the west entrance by the Bishop of London and the other clergy of the
Cathedral, was carried up the nave to the chanting of "I am the Resurrection and the Life."
The spurs were borne by one herald, the helmet and crest by another, the sword and target by
a third, the surcoat by a fourth, the foreign batons by their foreign bearers, the English
baton by Lord Anglesey.

Among the psalms and anthems, a dirge accompanied by trumpets was sung, "And the King said
to all the people that were with him, rend your clothes and gird you with sackcloth and mourn.
And the King himself followed the bier. And they buried him; and the King lifted up his voice
and wept at the grave, and all the people wept.

An affecting incident occurred, when, at the conclusion of this dirge, the body was lowered
into the crypt to the "intensely mournful" sound of "The Dead March in Saul." As the coffin
with the coronet and baton slowly descended, and thus the great warrior departed from the sight
of men, a sense of heavy depression came on the whole assembly. Prince Albert was deeply moved,
and the aged Marquess of Anglesey, the octogenarian companion in arms of the deceased, by an
irresistible impulse stepped forward, placed his hand on the sinking coffin that contained
the remains of his chief in many battles, and burst into tears.

  "In the vast Cathedral leave him;
  God accept him, Christ receive him."

At the close of 1852 Mr. Disraeli announced his Budget in one famous speech, to which Mr. Gladstone
replied in another, the first of those memorable speeches--at once a fine oration and a convincing
argument-- so often heard since then. The Derby Ministry, already tottering to its fall on
the ground of its opposition to Free-trade principles, was defeated, and the same night Lord
Derby resigned office, and Lord Aberdeen, who was able to unite the Whigs and the followers
of the late Sir Robert Peel, took his place.

On the 2nd of December, the anniversary of the coup d'etat, the Empire was declared in France,
and Louis Napoleon entered Paris as Emperor on the following day.

On the 22nd of January, 1853, the Emperor of the French made public his approaching marriage
to the beautiful Eugenie de Montigo, Comtesse de Theba.

A serious fire broke out at Windsor Castle on the night of the 19th of March, the very day
that the Court had come down for Easter. It was the result of an accident from the over-heating
of a flue, which might have been doubly disastrous.

The scene of the fire was the upper stories of the Prince of Wales's Tower, above the Gothic
dining-room, which is in the same suite with the Crimson, Green, and White drawing-rooms, in
the last of which the Queen and Prince Albert were sitting, at ten o'clock in the evening,
when the smell of smoke and burning aroused an alarm.

Besides the suite of drawing-rooms, with their costly furniture, the plate-rooms were beneath
the Gothic dining-room; and on the other side--beyond a room known as the Octagon-room--was
the Jewelled Armoury. The fire had taken such hold that the utmost exertions were needed to
keep it under, and prevent it from spreading, and it remained for hours doubtful whether the
rest of the Castle would escape. Prince Albert, the gentlemen of the household, and the servants,
with seven hundred Guards brought from the barracks and stationed in the avenues to prevent
further disorder, strove to supplement the work of the fire-engines. The Gothic dining-room
was stripped of its furniture, including the gold vase or bath for wine, valued at ten thousand
pounds. The Crimson drawing-room and the Octagon-room were dismantled. The plate-rooms were
considered fireproof, but the Jewelled Armoury was emptied of its treasures, among them the
famous peacock of Tippoo Sahib.

More than five hours passed before the danger was over. The Queen, in writing to reassure the
King of the Belgians, said, "Though I was not alarmed, it was a serious affair, and an acquaintance
with what a fire is, and with its necessary accompaniments, does not pass from one's mind without
leaving a deep impression. For some time it was very obstinate, and no one could tell whether
it would spread or not. Thank God, no lives were lost."

Less than three weeks after the fire, the Queen's fourth son, and eighth child, was born at
Buckingham Palace on the 7th of April. Within a fortnight her Majesty was sufficiently recovered
to write to the King of the Belgians, and here the wound which had been felt so keenly bled
afresh. "My first letter is this time, as last time, addressed to you. Last time it was because
dearest Louise--to whom the first announcement had heretofore always been addressed, was with
me, alas!

In the Royal Academy this year one of the pre-Raphaelites, who had been at first treated with
vehement opposition and ridicule, came so unmistakably to the front as to stagger his former
critics, and render his future success certain. Even the previous year Millais's "Huguenot"
had made a deep impression, and his "Order of Release" this year carried everything before
it. In the same Academy exhibition were Sir Edwin Landseer's highly poetic "Night" and "Morning."

On the Court's return from Osborne to London, the Queen and Prince Albert were present with
their guests, the King and Queen of Hanover, and the Duke and Duchess of Coburg, on the 21st
of June, in the camp at Chobham, when a sham-fight and a series of military manoeuvres over
broken ground were carried out with great spirit and exactness, to the admiration of a hundred
thousand spectators. Her Majesty, as in the early years of her reign, wore a half-military
riding-habit, and was mounted on a splendid black horse, on which she rode down the lines before
witnessing the mock battle from an adjoining height.

Four days afterwards Prince Albert returned to the camp to serve for a couple of days with
his brigade, the Guards. The Prince experienced something of the hardships of bivouacing in
stormy weather, and suffered in consequence. He came back labouring under a bad cold, to be
present at the baptism of his infant son on the 28th. All the sponsors were there in person.
The Lord Chamberlain conducted the baby-prince to the font; the Archbishop of Canterbury performed
the sacred rite. The usual State banquet and evening party followed. But illness, not very
deadly, yet sufficiently prostrating, was hovering over the royal pair and their guests. The
Prince of Wales was already sick of measles. Prince Albert, pre-disposed by the cold he had
caught, got the infection from his son, had a sharp attack of the same disease, and we are
told "at the climax of the illness showed great nervous excitement," symptomatic of a susceptible,
highly-strung, rather fragile temperament.

Though the country was unaware of the extent of the Prince's illness, we can remember the public
speculation it excited, and the contradictory assertions that the Queen would claim her wife's
prerogative of watching by her husband's sick-bed, and that she would be forbidden to do so,
for State reasons, her health or sickness, not to say the danger to her life, being of the
utmost importance to the body politic. It is easy to see that if such a question had arisen,
it would have been peculiarly trying to one who had been brought up to regard her duty to the
country as a primary obligation, while at the same time every act of her life showed how precious
and binding were her conjugal relations. But the matter settled itself. After the Princess
Royal and Princess Alice had also been attacked by the epidemic, the Queen was seized with
it, happily in the mildest form, which was of short duration. But the mischief did not confine
itself to the English royal family. The juvenile malady of measles became for a time the scourge
of princes, a little to the diversion of the world, since no great harm was anticipated, or
came to pass, while the ailment invaded a succession of Courts. The guests at Prince Leopold's
baptism carried the seeds of the disease to Hanover, in the person of the little Hanoverian
cousin, King George's son, who had been a visitor in the English royal nurseries; to Brussels,
in the case of the Duke and Duchess of Coburg, who unconsciously handed on the unwelcome gift
to King Leopold's sons, the Due de Brabant and the Comte de Flandres, the former on the eve
of his marriage, before the illness was taken across Germany to Coburg.

By the 6th of August, the birthday of Prince Alfred, the Queen and the Prince were sufficiently
recovered to pay a second visit with their children to Chobham, when a fresh series of manoeuvres
were performed prior to the breaking up of the camp.

A great cluster of royal visitors had arrived in England, making the season brilliant. It was,
perhaps, significant that these visitors included three Russian archduchesses, in spite of
the fact that a war with Russia was in the air, being only held back by the strenuous efforts
of statesmen, against the wishes of the people. Other visitors were the Crown Prince and Princess
of Wurtemberg, near akin to Russia, and the Prince of Prussia--the later came from Ostend,
on an invitation to witness a sight well calculated to recommend itself to his martial proclivities--a
review, on the grandest scale, of the fleet at Spithead, on the 11th of August. The weather
was fine, and the spectacle, perfect of its kind, was seen by all the royal company, by what
was in effect "the House of Commons with the Speaker at its head," and by multitudes in more
than a hundred steamers, besides, the crowds viewing the scene from the shores of the Isle
of Wight and Hampshire. On the 21st of August, a French sailor whose name has become a household
word in England, died far away amidst the horrors of the north seas, in a gallant effort to
rescue Sir John Franklin and his crew. Among the brave men who sailed on this perilous quest,
none earned greater honour and love than young Bellot.

On the 22nd of August, a marriage of some interest to the Queen was celebrated at Brussels.
King Leopold's eldest son, the Due de Brabant, was married in St. Gudule's to the Archduchess
Marie Henriette of Austria. The bridegroom was only eighteen years of age, the bride as young;
but it was considered desirable that the heir-apparent should marry, and Queen Louise's place
had remained vacant while her daughter, Princess Charlotte, was still unfit to preside over
the Court in her mother's room.

On the 29th of August, Sir Charles Napier, the dauntless, eccentric conqueror of Scinde, follows
his old commander to the grave. Though more than ten year's younger, Sir Charles's last public
appearance was at the Duke's funeral. He was the grandson of Lord Napier, and the son of the
beautiful Lady Sarah Lennox.

A great art and industrial exhibition at Dublin--the first of the numerous progeny of the Great
Exhibition of two years before--was held this year. Naturally, the Queen and the Prince were
much interested in its fortunes, and had promised to be present at the opening, but were prevented
by the outbreak of measles in June. It was possible, however, to visit the Irish Exhibition
before its close, and this her Majesty and Prince Albert did on their way to Balmoral. Proceeding
by train to Holyhead, where they were detained a day and a night by a violent storm, the travellers
sailed on the 29th of August for Kingstown, which was reached next morning. On landing they
were received by the Lord-Lieutenant, Lord St. Germains and Lady St. Germains, the Archbishop
of Dublin, the Duke of Leinster, &c., &c., together with an immense number of people, lining
the dock walls and hailing her Majesty's arrival with vociferous cheers, as on her last visit
to Ireland. Enthusiasm, equal to what had been shown before, was displayed on the railway route
and the drive through the thronged streets to the Viceregal Lodge. Not long after her arrival,
the Queen, as energetic as ever, was seen walking in the Phoenix Park, and in the evening she
took a drive in the outskirts of the city. At night Dublin was illuminated. The next day the
Queen and the Prince, with their two elder sons, paid a State visit to the exhibition, full
to overflowing with eager gazers. The royal party were conducted to a dais, where the Queen,
seated on the throne prepared for her, received the address of the commissioners thanking her
for the support she had lent to the undertaking by her presence, and by her contributions to
the articles exhibited.

The Queen replied, expressing her satisfaction that the worthy enterprise had been carried
out in a spirit of energy and self- reliance, "with no pecuniary aid but that derived from
the patriotic munificence of one of her subjects." That subject, Mr. Dargan, who had erected
the exhibition building at his own expense, was present, and kissed hands amidst the cheers
of the assembly. The Queen and the Prince afterwards made the circuit of the whole place, specially
commending the Irish manufactures of lace, poplin, and pottery.

In, the afternoon her Majesty and Prince Albert, to the high gratification of the citizens
of Dublin, drove out through pouring rain to Mount Annville, the house of Mr. Dargan, saw its
beautiful grounds, and conversed with the host and hostess. His manner struck the Queen as
"touchingly modest and simple," and she wrote in her journal, "I would have made him a baronet,
but he was anxious it should not be done."

Every morning during their week's stay the royal pair returned unweariedly to the exhibition,
and by their interest in its productions, stimulated the interest of others. The old engagements--a
review, visits to the castle, and the national schools--occupied what time was left.

On Saturday, the 3rd of September, a beautiful day succeeding miserable weather, the Queen
drove slowly through the Dublin streets, "unlined with soldiers," feeling quite sorry that
it was the last day after what she called "such a pleasant, gay, and interesting tune in Ireland."
Loyal multitudes waited at the station and at Kingstown, cheering the travellers. Lord and.
Lady St. Germains went on board the yacht, and dined with hen Majesty and Prince Albert.

On the following morning, the Victoria and Albert crossed to Holyhead.

A glad event at Balmoral that year was the laying of the foundation- stone of the new house.
The rite was done with all the usual ceremonies, Mr. Anderson, then the minister of Crathie,
praying for a blessing on the work.

The return of the Court to England was hastened by what had disturbed the peace of the stay
in the North. The beginning of a great war was imminent. The Eastern Question, long a source
of trouble, was becoming utterly unmanageable. Russia and Turkey were about to take up arms.
Indeed, Russia had already crossed the Danube and occupied the Principalities.

Turkey, in a fever-heat, declared war against Russia, crossed the Danube, and fought with desperate
valour and some success at Oltenitza and Kalafat; but matters were brought to a crisis by the
nearly utter destruction of the Turkish fleet at Sinope, one of the Turkish ports on the shores
of the Black Sea. The French and English Governments uttered a practical protest by informing
the Czar, that if his fleet in the south made any further movement against the Turks, the English
and French fleets already in the Dardanelles would immediately enter the Black Sea and take
active steps in defence of their ally.

In the meantime there had been some commotion in the English Cabinet. Lord Palmerston suddenly
resigned, and as quickly resumed office. The ostensible cause of difference between him and
his colleagues was the new Reform Bill; but the real motive is believed to have been the Government's
tactics with regard to the threatened war. These changed all at once, the change coinciding
with the return of Lord Palmerston to office, and suiting the fighting mood of the people.
He was once more the favourite of the hour, and in the popular pride and confidence in him,
a great injustice was done to another. Startled and angered by Lord Palmerston's withdrawal
from the Government, the old clamour about Court prejudice and intrigue, and German objections
to Liberal statesmen, broke out afresh, and raged more hotly than ever. Prince Albert was openly
mentioned as the hostile influence "behind the throne," and in the Cabinet of which he was
a member, against the man who was prepared to assert the dignity of England in spite of all
opposition; the man who had uniformly sided with the weak, and spoken the truth of tyrants,
let them be in ever so high places; the man at the same time who had approved of the coup d'etat.
The most unfounded charges of unfaithfulness to English interests, and personal interference
for the purpose of gaining his own ends, and working into the hands of foreign Governments,
were brought against the Queen's husband. His birth as a German, and his connection with the
King of the Belgians and the Orleans family, were loudly dwelt upon. It was treated as an offence
on his part that he should attend the Cabinet counsels of which he was a member, and be in
the confidence of the Queen, who was his loving wife. He was attacked alike by Liberals and
Protectionists; assailed, with hardly an assumption of disguise, both in public and private,
and in many of the principal newspapers. The man who little more than two years before, at
the time of the Great Exhibition, had been hailed as a general benefactor, and praised as the
worthiest of patriots, was now almost the best-abused man in England, pursued with false accusations
and reproaches equally false.

"One word more about the credulity of the public," wrote Prince Albert to Baron Stockmar; "you
will scarcely credit that my being committed to the Tower was believed all over the country;
nay, even 'that the Queen had been arrested!' People surrounded the Tower in thousands to see
us brought to it."

All this ingratitude and stupidity must have been galling to its object, in spite of his forbearance,
and, if possible, still more exquisitely painful to the Queen, who had felt a natural and just
pride, not merely in her husband's fine qualities, but in her people's appreciation of them.
The Prince wrote in the same letter, "Victoria has taken the whole affair greatly to heart,
and was exceedingly indignant at the attacks." And the Queen wrote with proud tender pain to
Lord Aberdeen, "In attacking the Prince, who is one and the same with the Queen herself, the
throne is assailed; and she must say she little expected that any portion of her subjects would
thus requite the unceasing labours of the Prince."

This unscrupulous accusation was grave enough to demand a refutation in Parliament, which Lord
Aberdeen and Lord John Russell were ready to give as soon as the House should meet.

During this trying winter, the Queen heard of the melancholy death of her sister queen and
girlish acquaintance, who had become a kinswoman by marriage--Maria da Gloria. The two queens
were the same in age-- thirty-four--and each had become the mother of eight children, but there
the similarity ceased. At the birth of her last child--dead born--the Queen of Portugal ended
a life neither long nor happy, though she had been fortunate in her second husband. Queen Maria
da Gloria lacked Queen Victoria's reasonableness and fairness. The Queen of Portugal started
on a wrong course, and continued with it, notwithstanding the better judgment of her husband.
She supported the Cabrals--the members of a noble Portuguese family, who held high offices
under her government--in ruling unconstitutionally and corruptly. She consented to her people's
being deprived of the liberty of the press, and burdened with taxes, till, though her private
life was irreproachable, she forfeited their regard. In 1846 civil war broke out, and the Cabrals
were compelled to resign; the Count of Soldanha and his party took the place of the former
ministers. But the insurrection spread until it was feared the Queen and her husband would
be driven out of the country. Suddenly the tide turned; the better portion of the army declared
for the Queen, her cause was upheld by the English Government, and peace and the royal authority
were restored. But in spite of a pledge that the Cabrals should be excluded from the Government,
the elder brother again became Premier, with the old abuse of power. A second revolution was
accomplished by Soldanha, to whose control Maria da Gloria had to yield, much against the grain.
She was succeeded by her eldest son, Don Pedro, still a minor, with the King-Consort his father
for regent, an arrangement which proved satisfactory to the distracted kingdom.

A different event was the premature death of perhaps the most beautiful, and the most fortunate,
in the eyes of the world, of the Queen's fair bridesmaids. Lady Sarah Villiers, who had become
a princess by her marriage with the son of one of the richest, most aristocratic subjects in
Europe, Prince Nicholas Esterhazy--of diamond notoriety, died at Torquay in her thirty-second year.

When Parliament met in January, 1854, the Prince was triumphantly vindicated by the leaders
on both sides, but it was not till his death that his character was done full justice to. In
the meantime the cloud had broken, and the royal couple rejoiced unaffectedly. The Queen wrote
to Baron Stockmar that there was "an immense concourse" of people assembled, and they were
very friendly when she went to the House of Lords. The anniversary of the marriage was hailed
with fresh gratitude and gladness, and with words written to Germany that fall pathetically
on our ears to-day. "This blessed day is full of joyful, tender emotions," are her Majesty's
words. "Fourteen happy and blessed years have passed, and I confidently trust many more will,
and find us in old age as we are now, happy and devotedly united. Trials we must have; but
what are they if we are together?"

It was on this occasion that there was a family masque, of which Baroness Bunsen, who was present,
has given a full description. She tells how, between five and six o'clock in the evening, the
company followed the Queen and the Prince to a room where a red curtain was let down. They
all sat in darkness till the curtain was drawn aside, "and the Princess Alice, who had been
dressed to represent 'spring,' recited some verses taken from Thomson's "Seasons," enumerating
the flowers which the spring scatters around, and she did it very well, spoke in a distinct
and pleasing manner, with excellent modulation, and a tone of voice like that of the Queen.
Then the curtain was drawn up, and the whole scene changed, and the Princess Royal represented
'summer,' with Prince Arthur lying upon some sheaves, as if tired with the heat of the harvest
work; the Princess Royal also recited verses. Then again there was a change, and Prince Alfred,
with a crown of vine-leaves and a panther's skin, represented 'autumn,' and recited also verses
and looked very well. Then there was a change to a winter landscape, and the Prince of Wales
represented 'winter,' with a white beard and a cloak with icicles or snow-flakes (or what looked
like such), and the Princess Louise, warmly clothed, who seemed watching the fire; and the
Prince also recited well a passage altered from Thomson.... Then another change was made, and
all the seasons were grouped together, and far behind, on high, appeared the Princess Helena,
with a long veil hanging on each side down to her feet, and a long cross in her hand, pronouncing
a blessing on the Queen and Prince in the name of all the seasons. These verses were composed
for the occasion. I understood them to say that St. Helena, remembering her own British extraction,
came to utter a blessing on the rulers of her country; and I think it must have been so intended,
because Helena the mother of Constantine, the first Christian emperor, was said to have discovered
the remains of the cross on which our Saviour was crucified, and so when she is painted she
always has a cross in her hand. But grandpapa understood that it was meant for Britannia blessing
the royal pair. At any rate, the Princess Helena looked very charming. This was the close;
but when the Queen ordered the curtain to be drawn back, we saw the whole royal family, and
they were helped to jump down from their raised platforms; and then all came into the light
and we saw them well; and the baby, Prince Leopold, was brought in by his nurse, and looked
at us all with big eyes, and wanted to go to his papa, Prince Albert. At the dinner-table the
Princesses Helena and Louise and Prince Arthur were allowed to come in and stand by their mamma,
the Queen, as it a was festival day.... In the evening there was very fine music in St. George's
Hall, and the Princess Royal and Princess Alice, and the Prince of Wales and Prince Alfred,
were allowed to stop up and hear it, sitting to the right and left of the chairs where sat
the Queen and Prince Albert and the Duchess of Kent." Some of the graceful figures in the pretty
masque were given, with modifications, by the sculptor's art. Four are reproduced in the engravings
in this book, that of the Princess Royal at page 146, that of Princess Alice at page 190, that
of the Prince of Wales at page 153, and that of Prince Alfred at page 224, Volume First.

On the 7th of February Baron Brunnow, who had been Russian ambassador in England for fifteen
years, quitted London. Notes were dispatched on the 27th from London and Paris to St. Petersburg,
calling on Russia to evacuate the Principalities, a summons to which the Czar declined to reply.
War was declared in a supplemental gazette, and on the 31st of March the declaration was read,
according to ancient usage, from the steps of the Royal Exchange by the Sergeant-at-Arms of
the City of London, to a great crowd that wound up the ceremony by giving three cheers for
the Queen. Part of the troops had already embarked, their marching and embarkation being witnessed
by multitudes with the utmost interest and enthusiasm. The chief sight was the departure of
the Guards, the Grenadiers leaving by gaslight on the winter morning, the Fusiliers marching
to Buckingham Palace, where at seven o'clock the Queen and the Prince, with their children,
were ready to say good-bye. "They formed line, presented arms, and then cheered us very heartily,
and went off cheering," the Queen wrote to the King of the Belgians.... "Many sorrowing friends
were there, and one saw the shake of many a hand. My best wishes and prayers went with them
all." It was a famous scene, which is remembered to this day. Another episode was that of the
Duchess of Cambridge and her daughter, the Princess Mary, taking leave of the brigade with
which the Duke of Cambridge, the only son and brother, left.

Her Majesty and the Prince started for Osborne in the course of the next fortnight, to visit
the superb fleet which was to sail from Spithead under Sir Charles Napier. "It will be a solemn
moment," the Queen wrote again to Lord Aberdeen; "many a heart will be very heavy, and many
a prayer, including our own, will be offered up for its safety and glory." In spite of the
bad weather, which marred the arrangements, the Queen sailed from Portsmouth in the Fairy,
and passing the Victory, with its heroic associations, went through the squadron of twenty
great vessels, amidst the booming of the guns, the manning of the yards, and the cheers of
the sailors. The following day the little Fairy, with its royal occupants, played a yet more
striking part. At the head of the outward-bound squadron, it sailed with the ships for several
miles, then stopped for the fleet to pass by, the Queen standing waving her handkerchief to
the flag-ship. Her Majesty was, as she said, "very enthusiastic" about her army and navy, and
wished she had sons in both of them, though she foresaw how she would suffer when she heard
of the losses of her brave men. If she had not sons in either service, her cousin, the Duke
of Cambridge, was with the Guards for a time, and her young nephews, Prince Victor of Hohenlohe
and Prince Ernest Leiningen, were with their ships. The Queen paid the same compliment of giving
a farewell greeting to the second division of the fleet.

When the address to the Throne in reply to the Queen's message announcing the declaration of
war was presented, her Majesty and the Prince were accompanied to the House for the first time
by the Prince of Wales, a boy of thirteen.

In the middle of the worry, the season was gay as if no life-blood was drained in strong currents
from the country; and Varna, with its cholera swamps, where the troops had encamped on Turkish
soil, was not present to all men's minds. The Queen set an example in keeping up the social
circulation without which there would be a disastrous collapse of more than one department
of trade. On May-day, Prince Arthur's birthday, there was a children's ball, attended by two
hundred small guests, at Buckingham Palace. Sir Theodore Martin quotes her Majesty's merry
note, inviting the Premier to come and see "a number of happy little people, including some
of his grandchildren, enjoying themselves." Among the grandchildren of Lord Aberdeen were the
young sons of Lord Haddo--sinking under a long wasting illness--George, sixth Earl of Aberdeen,
who, when he came to man's estate, served as an ordinary seaman in a merchant ship, where his
rank was unsuspected, and who perished by being washed overboard on a stormy night; and the
Honourable James Gordon, who died from the bursting of his gun when he was keeping his terms
at Cambridge.

The Queen honoured Count Walewski, the French ambassador, by her presence at one of the most
brilliant of costume balls. A great Court ball was followed by a great Court concert, at which
Lablache sang again in England after an interval of many years. Among the visitors to London
in June were poor Maria da Gloria's sons, Coburgs on the father's side, young King Pedro of
Portugal, and his brother, the Duke of Oporto, fine lads who were much liked wherever they went.

The Queen and the Prince spent her Majesty's birthday at Osborne, and commemorated it to their
children by putting them in possession of the greatest treasure of their happy childhood--the
Swiss cottage in the grounds, about a mile from the Castle, in which youthful princes and princesses
played at being men and women, practised the humbler duties of life, and kept natural history
collections and geological specimens, as their father and uncle had kept theirs in the museum
at Coburg. Another great resource consisted of the plots of ground--among which the Princess
Royal's was a fair-sized garden, ultimately nine in number, where the amateur gardeners studied
gardening in the most practical manner, and had their tiny tool-house, with the small spades
and rakes properly grouped and duly lettered, "Prince Alfred" or "Princess Louise," as the
case might be. A third idea, borrowed like the first from Coburg, was the miniature fort, with
its mimic defences, every brick of which was made and built, and the very cannon-balls founded,
by the two sons destined to be soldiers--the Prince of Wales and Prince Arthur.

Before the end of the season cholera broke out in London. Among its victims was Lord Jocelyn,
eldest son of Lord Roden, and husband of Lady Fanny Cowper. He had been on guard at the palace,
and died after an illness of not more than two hours' duration in the drawing-room of his mother-in-law,
Lady Palmerston.

The Queen came up to town to prorogue Parliament in person. Afterwards her Majesty and the
Prince spent his birthday at Osborne, when one of the amusements, no doubt with a view to the
entertainment of the children as well as of the grown-up people, was Albert Smith's "Ascent
of Mont Blanc," which was then one of the comic sights of London.

Early in September Prince Albert, in compliment to the alliance between England and France,
went, by the Emperor's invitation, to visit the French camp at St. Omer, and was absent four
or five days. The Prince's letters were as constant and lover-like as ever.

On the 15th of September the Court arrived at Balmoral, and the same day the Queen received
the news of the sailing of the English and French soldiers for the Crimea. An anxious but brief
period of suspense followed. Six days later came the tidings of the successful landing, without
opposition, in the neighbourhood of Eupatoria.

Lord Aberdeen came on a visit to Balmoral, and had just left when the glad tidings arrived
of the victory of the Alma, followed immediately by a false report of the fall of Sebastopol.

During this year's stay in the north, her Majesty met for the first time a remarkable Scotchman
whom she afterwards honoured with her friendship. Both the Queen and Dr. Macleod describe the
first sermon he preached before her, on Christian life. He adds, "In the evening, after daundering
in a green field with a path through it which led to the high-road, and while sitting on a
block of granite, full of quiet thoughts, mentally reposing in the midst of the beautiful scenery,
I was roused from my reverie by some one asking me if I was the clergyman who had preached
that day. I was soon in the presence of the Queen and Prince, when her Majesty came forward
and said with a sweet, kind, and smiling face, 'We wish to thank you for your sermon.' She
then asked me how my father was, what was the name of my parish, &c.; and so, after bowing
and smiling, they both continued their quiet evening walk alone." [Footnote: Life of Dr. Norman
Macleod.]

The Court returned from Balmoral by Edinburgh. At Hull, and again at Grimsby, the Queen and
the Prince inspected the docks, of which he had laid the foundation stones.

In the beginning of November England heard with mingled triumph and pain of the repulsed attack
on the English at Balaclava on the 25th of October, and of the charge of the Light Brigade.

The number of the English soldiers in the field fell lower and lower. The Queen wrote to King
Leopold, "We have but one thought, and so has the nation, and that is--Sebastopol. Such a time
of suspense, anxiety, and excitement, I never expected to see, much less to feel."

On the 13th of November telegrams arrived with the news of the battle of Inkermann, fought
against terrible odds on the 5th.

The Queen wrote herself to Lord Raglan to tell of her "pride and joy" at receiving the intelligence
of "the glorious, but alas! bloody victory of the 5th." She conferred upon him the baton of
a Field- Marshal. Her Majesty also addressed a kind and sympathising letter to the widow of
Sir George Cathcart.

The Queen wrote with high indignation to the King of the Belgians after the battle of Inkermann:
"They (the enemy) behaved with the greatest barbarity; many of our poor officers who were only
slightly wounded were brutally butchered on the ground. Several lived long enough to say this.
When poor Sir G. Cathcart fell mortally wounded, his faithful and devoted military secretary
(Colonel Charles Seymour) ... sprang from his horse, and with one arm--he was wounded in the
other--supported his dying chief, when three wretches came and bayoneted him. This is monstrous,
and requisitions have been sent by the two commanders-in-chief to Menschikoff to remonstrate...."

The winter of 1854-55 was a sorrowful and care-laden time. Little or no progress was made in
the war, while in the meanwhile the sufferings of the soldiers from a defective commissariat,
a rigorous climate, and the recurring ravages of cholera, were frightful. The very winds and
waves seemed to fight against the allies and to side with "Holy Russia." Never had the Black
Sea been visited by such storms and wrecks.

From the palace to the cottage, women's fingers worked eagerly and unweariedly knitting comforters
and muffatees to protect the throats and wrists of the shivering men. We have heard that the
greatest lady in the land deigned thus to serve her soldiers. We have been told of a cravat
worked in crochet by a queen's fingers which fell to the share of a gallant young officer in
the trenches--the same brave lad who had carried, unscathed, the colours of his regiment to
the heights of the Alma.

The hospitals were in as disorganised a state as the commissariat, and Mr. Sydney Herbert,
well-nigh in despair, had the bright inspiration of sending to the seat of war Florence Nightingale,
the daughter and co-heiress of a Derbyshire squire, with a staff of nurses.

Such reformation of abuses was wrought by a capable devoted woman, such order brought out of
disorder, such comfort and consolation carried to wounded and dying men, that the experiment
became a triumphant success. Many were the stories told of the soldiers' boundless reverence
for the woman who had left country and friends and all the good things that wealth and rank
can command to relieve her fellow-creatures; how one of them was seen to kiss her shadow on
the wall of his ward as she passed; how the convalescents engaged in strange and wonderful
manufactures of gifts to offer to her.

A second large instalment of nurses was sent out after the first, the latter led by Mary Stanley,
daughter of the Bishop of Norwich, and sister of the Dean of Westminster, who had already been
a sister to the poor in her father's diocese.

The Queen wrote again to Lord Raglan, "The sad privations of the army, the bad weather, and
the constant sickness, are causes of the deepest concern and anxiety to the Queen and the Prince.
The braver her noble troops are, the more patiently and heroically they bear all their trials
and sufferings, the more miserable we feel at their long continuance. The Queen trusts that
Lord Raglan will be very strict in seeing that no unnecessary privations are incurred by any
negligence of those whose duty it is to watch over their wants.

"The Queen heard that their coffee was given them green instead of roasted, and some other
things of this kind, which have distressed her, as she feels so anxious that they should be
as comfortable as circumstances can admit of. The Queen earnestly trusts that the large amount
of warm clothing sent out has not only reached Balaclava, but has been distributed, and that
Lord Raglan has been successful in procuring the means of hutting for the men. Lord Raglan
cannot think how much we suffer for the army, and how painfully anxious we are to know that
their privations are decreasing.... The Queen cannot conclude without wishing Lord Raglan and
the whole of the army, in the Prince's name and her own, a happy and glorious new year."

No sooner had Parliament reassembled than Mr. Roebuck brought forward his famous motion for
the appointment of a committee to inquire into the state of the army and the management of
the War Department of the Government.

Lord John Russell resigned office, and there was a threatened resignation of the whole Ministry,
an ill-timed step, which was only delayed till Mr. Roebuck's motion was carried, by a large
majority, not amidst the cheers, but to the odd accompaniment of the derisive laughter of the
Liberal members who had voted for the motion. Lord Aberdeen's Ministry immediately resigned
office; and after an abortive attempt on the part of Lord Derby, at the request of the Queen,
to form a new Ministry, Lord Lansdowne and Lord John Russell were in succession asked to take
the leadership, but each in his turn had to own his inability to get the requisite men to act
under him. In summoning Lord John Russell to become Premier, the Queen had expressed a wish
that Lord Palmerston--the man to whom the country looked as the only proper war minister--should
take office. The wish, especially flattering and acceptable to Lord Palmerston, because it
indicated that old differences were forgotten, was in marked keeping with a certain magnanimity
and candour--excellent qualities in a sovereign-- which have been prominent features in her
Majesty's character.

Lord John Russell having been as unsuccessful as his predecessors in forming a Ministry, Lord
Palmerston was sent for by the Queen and offered the premiership, and the most popular minister
of the day was soon able, to the jubilation of the country, to construct a Cabinet.

On the 10th of February, the anniversary of the Queen's marriage-day, there was this year,
as usual, a home festival, with the nursery drama of "Little Red Riding Hood" performed by
the younger members of the family, and appropriate verses spoken by Princess Alice, who seems
to have been the chosen declaimer among the princes and princesses. But beneath the rejoicing
there were in the elders anxiety, sympathetic suffering, and the endurance of undeserved suspicion.
The committee carrying out the inquiry proposed by Mr. Roebuck's motion, conceived most unjustly
that the Prince's hostile influence prevented them from obtaining the information they desired.
The Queen's health was suffering from her distress on account of the hardships experienced
by her soldiers, so that when Lord Cardigan returned to England, repaired to Windsor, and had
the royal children upon his knee, they said, "You must hurry back to Sebastopol and take it,
else it will kill mamma!"

On the 2nd of March the strange news burst upon Europe, exciting rather a sense of solemnity
than any less seemly feeling, of the sudden death of the Emperor Nicholas, former guest and
fervent friend of the Queen--for whom she seems to have retained a lingering, rueful regard--grasper
at an increase of territory, disturber of the peace of Europe, dogged refuser of all mediation.
He had an attack of influenza, but the real cause of his death is said to have been bitter
disappointment and mortification at his failure to drive the allies out of the Crimea. The
"Generals, January and February," on whom he had counted to work his will, laid him low.

CHAPTER XXVI.

INSPECTION OF THE HOSPITAL AT CHATHAM--VISIT OF THE EMPEROR AND EMPRESS OF THE FRENCH--DISTRIBUTION
OF WAR MEDALS.

On the 3rd of March, the Queen and the Prince, with the Prince of Wales, Prince Alfred and
the Duke of Cambridge, visited the hospital at Chatham, to which many of the wounded and sick
soldiers had been brought home. The whole of the invalids who were in a condition to leave
their beds "were drawn up on the lawn," each having a card containing his name and services,
his wounds, and where received. Her Majesty passed along the line, saying a few kind words
to those sufferers who particularly attracted her notice, or to those whose services were specially
commended. It is easy to imagine how the haggard faces would brighten and the drooping figures
straighten themselves in that royal and gentle presence.

In the course of the month, at an exhibition and sale of water-colour drawings and pictures
by amateurs, in aid of a fund for the widows and orphans of officers in the Crimea, the artistic
talent of which there have been many proofs in the Queen's and the Prince's children, was first
publicly shown. A water-colour drawing by the Princess Royal, already a fine girl of fifteen--whose
marriage was soon to be mooted, in which she had represented a woman weeping over a dead grenadier,
displayed remarkable merit and was bought for a large price.

On the 16th of April the Emperor and Empress of the French arrived in England on a visit to
the Queen. The splendid suite of rooms in Windsor Castle which includes the Rubens, Zuccarelli,
and Vandyck rooms, were destined for the imperial guests. And we are told that, by the irony
of fate, the Emperor's bedroom was the same that had been occupied on previous occasions by
the late Emperor Nicholas and King Louis Philippe. Sir Theodore Martin refers to a still more
pathetic contrast which struck the Queen. He quotes from her Majesty's journal a passage relating
to a visit paid by the old Queen Amelie to Windsor two or three days before.

Prince Albert received the travellers at Dover in the middle of a thick mist which had delayed
the corvette, hidden the English fleet, and somewhat marred what was intended to have been
the splendour of the reception. After the train had reached London, the drive was through densely
crowded streets, in which there was no lack of enthusiasm for the visitors.

The strangers did not reach Windsor till past seven. The Queen had been waiting for them some
time in one of the tapestry rooms near the guard-room. "The expectation and agitation grew
more intense," her Majesty wrote in her diary. "The evening was fine and bright. At length
the crowd of anxious spectators lining the road seemed to move; then came a groom; then we
heard a gun, and we moved towards the staircase. Another groom came. Then we saw the advanced
guard of the escort; then the cheers of the crowd burst forth.

"I cannot say what indescribable emotions filled me, how much all seemed like a wonderful dream.
These great meetings of sovereigns, surrounded by very exciting accompaniments, are always
very agitating. I next embraced the very gentle, graceful, and evidently very nervous Empress.
We presented the Princes (the Duke of Cambridge and the Prince of Leiningen, the Queen's brother)
and our children (Vicky, with very alarmed eyes, making very low curtsies); the Emperor embraced
Bertie; and then we went upstairs, Albert leading the Empress, who in the most engaging manner
refused to go first, but at length with graceful reluctance did so, the Emperor leading me,
expressing his great gratification at being here and seeing me, and admiring Windsor." [Footnote:
Life of the Prince Consort.]

Her Majesty was pleased with the Emperor; his low soft voice and quiet manner were very attractive.
She was delighted with the Empress, of whom she repeatedly wrote with admiration and liking.
"She is full courage and spirit," the Queen described her visitor, "yet so gentle, with such
innocence and enjouement, that the ensemble is most charming. With all her great liveliness,
she has the prettiest and most modest manner." There were morning walks during the visitors'
stay, and long conversations about the war. A deputation from the Corporation of London came
down to Windsor, and presented the Emperor with an address. There was a review of the Household
troops in the Great Park, to which the Queen drove with the Empress. The Emperor, the Prince,
and the Duke of Cambridge rode. There was a tremendous enthusiastic crowd in the Long Walk,
and considerable pushing at the gates. The Queen was alarmed because of the spirited horse
the Emperor rode.

The day ended with a ball in the Waterloo Room, when the Queen danced a quadrille with the
Emperor, who, she wrote, "danced with great dignity and spirit.

A Council of War was held the day after the Emperor's arrival, at which the Queen was not present.
It was attended by the Emperor, the Prince, Lords Palmerston, Panmure, Hardinge, Cowley (English
ambassador in Paris), Count Walewski (French ambassador in London), Marshal Vaillant, &c.,
&c. It met at eleven, and had not separated at two, the hour of luncheon, after which a chapter
of the Order of the Garter--for which special toilettes were indispensable, was to be held.
The Empress went and told Lord Cowley how late it was, in vain. She advised the Queen to go
to them. "I dare not go in, but your Majesty may; it is your affair." The Queen passed through
the Emperor's bedroom, which was next to the council-room, knocked, and entered to ask what
was to be done, perhaps a solitary instance of a queen having to go in search of her guests.
Both the Emperor and the Prince rose and said they would come, but business was so enchaining
that still they delayed, and the ladies had to take luncheon alone.

The Emperor was invested with the Order of the Garter in the Throne- room. The forms were the
same as those followed in the investiture of Louis Philippe, and no doubt the one scene recalled
the other vividly enough. Bishop Wilberforce was present and gives some particulars: "A very
full chapter. The Duke of Buckingham (whose conduct had not been very knightly) came unsummoned,
and was not asked to remain to dinner. The Emperor looked exulting and exceedingly pleased."
After the chapter, the Emperor sent for the Bishop, that he might be presented. His lordship's
opinion was that Louis Napoleon was "rather mean- looking, small, and a tendency to embonpoint;
a remarkable way, as it were, of swimming up a room, with an uncertain gait; a small grey eye,
looking cunning, but with an aspect of softness about it too. The Empress, a peculiar face
from the arched eye-brows, blonde complexion; an air of sadness about her, but a person whose
countenance at once interests you. The banquet was magnificent. At night," ends Bishop Wilberforce,
"the Queen spoke to me. 'All went off very well, I think; I was afraid of making some mistake;
you would not let me have in writing what I was to say to him. Then we put the riband on wrong,
but I think it all went off well on the whole.'"

The Emperor and Empress were invited to a banquet at Guildhall. They went from Buckingham Palace,
to which the Queen and Prince Albert had accompanied them. The Queen wrote in her journal that
their departure from Windsor made her sad. The passing through the familiar rooms and descending
the staircase to the mournful strains of "Partant pour la Syrie" (composed by the Emperor's
mother, Queen Hortense, and heard by her Majesty fourteen different times that April day),
the sense that the visit about which there had been so much excitement was nearly over, the
natural doubt how and when the group would meet again, touched her as with a sense of foreboding.

The Emperor and Empress drove from Buckingham Palace to Guildhall in six of the Queen's State
carriages, the first drawn by the famous cream-coloured horses. The whole route was packed
with people, who gave the visitors a thorough ovation. The City hall was decorated with the
flags of England, France, and Turkey; and the lion and the eagle conjointly supported devices
which bore the names "Alma, Balaclava, and Inkermann." At the dejeuner sherry was served which
had reached the venerable age of one hundred and nine years, was valued at L600 the butt, and
had belonged to the great Napoleon. The same evening, the Queen and the Prince, with their
guests, went in State to the Italian Opera, where Fidelio was performed. "We literally drove
through a sea of human beings, cheering and pressing near the carriage." The illuminated streets
bore many devices--of N.E. and V.A., which the Emperor remarked made the word "Neva"--a coincidence
on which he appears to have dwelt with his share of the superstition of the Buonapartes. The
Opera-house and the royal box were richly decorated for the occasion. On entering, her Majesty
led the Emperor, and Prince Albert the Empress, to the front of the box, amidst great applause.
The audience was immense, a dense mass of ladies and gentlemen in full dress being allowed
to occupy a place behind the singers on the stage.

The next day, a beautiful April day, the Queen discovered was the forty-seventh birthday of
the Emperor; and when she went to meet him in the corridor, she wished him joy and gave him
a pencil-case. He smiled and kissed her hand, and accepted with empressment two violets-- the
Buonapartes' flower--brought to him by Prince Arthur. All along the thronged road to Sydenham,
cries of "Vive l'Empereur!" and "Vive l'Imperatrice!" alternated with cheers for the Queen.
The public were not admitted while the royal party were in the palace, but they gathered twenty
thousand strong on the terrace; and when her Majesty, with her guests, came out on the balcony
to enjoy the beautiful view, such shouts of loyalty and welcome filled the spring air as struck
even ears well accustomed to public greetings. After luncheon the Queen and her visitors returned
to the Palace, having to pass through an avenue of people lining the nave, to reach the balcony
from which the strangers were to see the fine spectacle of the fountains playing. The Queen
owned afterwards she was anxious; yet, she added, "I felt as I leant on the emperor's arm,
that I was possibly a protection for him. All thoughts of nervousness for myself were lost.
I thought only of him; and so it is, Albert says, when one forgets oneself, one loses this
great and foolish nervousness." A sentence worthy of him and of her.

Alas for fickle fortune and the changes which time brings! The present writer was accidentally
present on the occasion of the Emperor and Empress's last visit to the Crystal Palace. They
came from Chislehurst without any announcement, when they were not expected, on an ordinary
shilling day in autumn, the company happening to be few. A slight stir and one or two policemen
coming to the front, suggested that some theft had been committed, and that the offender was
about to be taken into custody and removed from the building. Then an official walked bareheaded
down the cleared nave, and behind him came a little yellow- skinned shrunken man in plain clothes,
on whose arm a lady in a simple black silk walking-dress and country hat leant lightly, as
if she were giving instead of receiving support. He made a slight attempt to acknowledge the
faint greetings of the spectators, some of them ignorant of the identity of the visitors, all
of them taken by surprise. She smiled and bowed from side to side, a little mechanically, as
if anxious to overlook no courtesy and to act for both. It was not long after the battle of
Sedan and the imprisonment at Wilhelmshohe, and the hand of death was already upon him. The
couple hurried on, as if desirous of not being detained, and could not have tarried many minutes
in the building when a few straggling cheers announced their departure.

In the afternoon of the 20th of April a second council relating to the war in the Crimea was
held, at which the Queen was present. With her large interest in public affairs, her growing
experience, and her healthy appetite for the work of her life, she enjoyed it exceedingly.
"It was one of the most interesting scenes I was ever present at," she wrote in her journal.
"I would not have missed it for the world."

On Saturday, the 21st of April, the visitors left, after the Emperor had written a graceful
French sentence in the Queen's album, and an admonitory verse in German, which had originally
been written for himself, in the Prince of Wales's autograph book. The Queen accompanied her
visitors to the door, and parted from them with kindly regret. As they drove off she "ran up"
to see the last of the travellers from the saloon they had just quitted. "The Emperor and Empress
saw us at the window," she wrote, "turned round, got up, and bowed.... We watched them, with
the glittering escort, till they could be seen no more...." The Prince escorted the Emperor
and Empress to Dover. The Queen wrote in a short memorandum her view of the Emperor's character,
and what she expected from the visit in a political light. Through the good sense of the paper
one can see how the confiding friendly nature had survived the rough check given to it by Louis
Philippe's manoeuvres and dissimulation.

On the 1st of May the Academy opened with Millais's "Rescue of children from a burning house,"
and with a remarkable picture by a young painter who has long since vindicated the reception
it met with. It was Mr. F. Leighton's "Procession conveying Cimabue's Madonna through the streets
of Florence."

On the 18th of May her Majesty distributed medals to some of the heroes of the war still raging.
The scene was both picturesque and pathetic, since many of the recipients of the honour were
barely recovered from their wounds. The presentation took place in the centre of the parade
of the Horse Guards, where a dais was erected for the ceremony, while galleries had been fitted
up in the neighbouring public offices for the accommodation of members of the royal family
and nobility. Barriers shut off the actors in the scene, and a great gathering of officers,
from the crowd which filled every inch of open space and flowed over into St. James's Park.

The Queen, the Prince, with many of the royal family, the Court, the Commander-in-Chief, the
Secretary for War, and "a host of generals and admirals," arrived about eleven o'clock. The
soldiers who kept the ground formed four deep, making three sides of a square, and the men
to be decorated passed up the open space, until "the Queen stood face to face with a mass of
men who had suffered and bled in her cause."

The Deputy-Adjutant-General read over the list of names, and each person, answering to the
call, presented to an officer a card on which was inscribed his name, rank, wounds, and battles.
As the soldiers passed in single file before the Queen, Lord Panmure handed to her Majesty
the medal, which she gave in turn to the medal-holder. He saluted and passed to the rear, where
friends and strangers gathered round him to inspect his trophy.

The first to receive the medal were the Queen's cousin and contemporary, the Duke of Cambridge,
Lords Lucan, Cardigan, Major- General Scarlett, Sir John Burgoyne, Sir De Lacy Evans, and Major-
General Torrens. It is needless to say how keenly the public were moved by the sight of their
brave defenders, several of them scarred and mutilated, many tottering from weakness, some
wearing on their sleeves bands of crape, tokens of mourning for kinsmen lying in Russian earth.

To every wounded man, officer or private, her Majesty spoke, some of those addressed blushing
like girls under their bronze, and the tears coming into their eyes. The idea of personally
presenting the medals to the soldiers was the Queen's own, and she must have been amply rewarded
by the gratification she bestowed.

Three officers unable to walk were wheeled past her Majesty in bath- chairs. The Queen leant
over Sir Thomas's chair and handed him his medal, while she announced to him his appointment
as one of her aides-de-camp. He replied, "I am amply repaid for everything."

CHAPTER XXVII.

A Sardinian contingent had now, by a stroke of policy on the part of Count Cavour, the Sardinian
Minister, joined the English and French in arms in the Crimea; but an unsuccessful attack,
made with heavy loss by the combined forces of the English and French on Sebastopol, filled
the country with disappointment and sorrow. The attack was made on the 18th of June, a day
which, as the anniversary of Waterloo, had been hitherto associated with victory and triumph.

Lord Raglan had never approved of the assault, but he yielded to the urgent representations
of General Pelissier. The defeat was the last blow to the old English soldier, worn by fatigue
and chagrin. He was seized with illness ending in cholera, and died in his quarters on the
29th of June, eleven days after the repulse. He was in his sixty- seventh year. The Queen wrote
to Lady Raglan the day after the tidings of the death reached England.

During the summer the Queen received visits from King Leopold and his younger children, and
from her Portuguese cousins. During the stay of the former in England scarlet fever broke out
in the royal nurseries. Princess Louise, Prince Arthur, Prince Leopold, and finally Princess
Alice, were attacked; but the disease was not virulent, and the remaining members of the family
escaped the infection.

In the early morning of the 16th of August, the Russians marched upon the French lines, and
were completely routed in the battle of the Tchernaya, which revived the allies' hopes of a
speedy termination of the war.

In the meantime, the Queen and Prince Albert, accompanied by the Prince of Wales and the Princess
Royal, paid a visit to the Emperor and Empress of the French, near Paris. The palace of St.
Cloud was set apart for the use of the Queen and the Prince.

Her Majesty landed at Boulogne during the forenoon of the 18th of August. She was received
by the Emperor, who met her on the gangway, first kissed her hand, and then kissed her on both
cheeks. He led her on shore, and rode by the side of her carriage to the railway station.

Paris, where no English sovereign had been since the baby Henry VI. was crowned King of France,
was not reached till evening. The city had been en fete all day with banners, floral arches,
and at last an illumination. Amidst the clatter of soldiers, the music of brass bands playing
"God save the Queen," and endless cheering, her Majesty drove through the gathering darkness
by the Bois de Boulogne to St. Cloud. To the roar of cannon, the beating of drums, and the
echoing of vivats, she was greeted and ushered up the grand staircase by the Empress and the
Princess Mathilde. Everybody was "most civil and kind," and in the middle of the magnificence
all was "very quiet and royal."

The next day was Sunday, and after breakfast there was a drive with the Emperor through the
beautiful park, where host and guests were very cheerful over good news from Sebastopol. The
English Church service was read by a chaplain from the Embassy in one of the palace rooms.
In the afternoon the Emperor and the Empress drove with their guests to the Bois de Boulogne,
and to Neuilly--so closely associated with the Orleans family--lying in ruins. General Canrobert,
just returned from the Crimea, was an addition to the dinner party.

On Monday the weather continued lovely. The Emperor fetched his guests to breakfast, which,
like luncheon, was eaten at small round tables, as in her Majesty's residences in England.
She remarked on the cookery that it was "very plain and very good." After breakfast the party
started in barouches for Paris, visiting the Exposition des Beaux Arts and the Palais d'Industrie,
passing through densely crowded streets, amidst enthusiastic shouts of "Vive l'Empereur!" "Vive
la Reine d'Angleterre!" At the Elysee the corps diplomatique were presented to the Queen. In
the meantime, the Emperor himself drove the boy Prince of Wales in a curricle through Paris.

Notre Dame, where the Archbishop of Paris and his clergy met the visitors, and the Hotel de
Ville, followed in the regular order of sightseeing.

The Queen dwells not only on the kindness but on the quietness of the Emperor as a particular
"comfort" on such an occasion.

Les Demoiselles de St. Cyr was acted in the evening. In the Salle de Mars all the company passed
before the Queen, the Empress presenting each in turn. The Emperor and Empress, preceded by
their gentlemen, always took the Queen and the Prince to their rooms.

On, Tuesday Versailles was the visitors' destination. They went in many carriages. Troops and
national guards, and especially gendarmes, were to be seen everywhere. The gardens and the
fountains, with throngs of company, were much admired.

The Queen visited the two Trianons. At the larger the Emperor showed her the room and bed provided
for her, in the expectation of her visiting Paris, by "poor Louis Philippe;" Madame Maintenon's
sedan- chair, by which Louis XIV. was wont to walk; and the little chapel in which "poor Marie
(Louis Philippe's daughter) was married to Alexander of Wurtemberg in 1838," two years before
the Queen's marriage.

At Little Trianon the Empress (who had a passion for every relic of Marie Antoinette) joined
the party, and luncheon was eaten in one of the cottages where princes and nobles were wont
to play at being peasants.

In the evening the Emperor, with his guests, paid a State visit to the opera-house in the Rue
Lepelletier. Part of the performance was a representation of Windsor Castle, with the Emperor's
reception there, when "God save the Queen" was splendidly sung, and received with acclamation.
The Emperor's happy animation, in contrast to his usual impassiveness, was remarked by the
audience.

Wednesday's visit, in the continuously fine August weather, was to the French Exhibition, which
the Queen and the Prince were so well calculated to appreciate. They rejoiced in the excellent
manner in which England was represented, particularly in pottery. The specially French productions
of Sevres, Goblins, and Beauvais were carefully studied. The Queen also examined the French
Crown jewels, the crown bearing the renowned Regent diamond, which, though less large than
the Koh-i-noor, is more brilliant. The Emperor presented the Prince with a magnificent Sevres
vase, a souvenir of the Exhibition of 1851. The Tuileries was visited, and luncheon taken there
in rooms containing pictures and busts or Napoleon I., Josephine, &c., &c. The Queen received
the Prefect and consented to attend the ball to be given in her honour.

After a visit to the British Embassy, the Queen and the Prince, with the Princess Royal and
one of the ladies of the suite, took a drive incognito through Paris, which they enjoyed exceedingly.
They went in an ordinary remise, the three ladies wearing common bonnets and mantillas, and
her Majesty having a black veil over her face.

On Thursday morning the Queen rested, walking about the gardens with her young daughter, and
sketching the Zouaves at the gate. The afternoon was spent at the Louvre, where the Queen mentions
the heat as "tropical."

After dinner at the Tuileries, the party stood laughing together at an old-fashioned imperial
cafetiere which would not let down the coffee, listening to the music, the carriages, and the
people in the distance, and talking of past times; as how could people fail to talk at the
Tuileries! The Emperor spoke of having known Madame Campan (to whose school his mother was
sent for a time), and repeated some of the old court dresser's anecdotes of Marie Antoinette
and the Great Revolution.

In her Majesty's full dress for the ball given to her by the City of Paris, she wore a diadem
in which the Koh-i-noor was set. Through the illuminated, crammed streets, the Queen proceeded
to the Hotel de Ville, and entered among flags, flowers, and statues, "like the Arabian Nights,"
the Emperor said.

The royal visitors occupied chairs on a dais. One quadrille and one valse were danced, the
Emperor being the Queen's partner, while Prince Albert danced with Princess Mathilde (the Empress
was in delicate health); Prince Napoleon and Madame Haussman (the wife of the Prefect of the
Seine), and Prince Adalbert of Bavaria and Lady Cowley (wife of the English ambassador) completing
the set.

Several Arabs in long white burnouses were among the guests, and kissed the hands of the Queen
and the Emperor. Her Majesty made the tour of the stately suite of rooms, lingering in the
one in which "Robespierre was wounded, Louis Philippe proclaimed, and from the windows of which
Lamartine spoke for so many hours in 1848."

On Friday there was a second visit to the Exhibition, and in the afternoon a grand review of
troops in the Champ de Mars, which the Queen admired much, regretting that she had not been
on horseback, though the day was not fine. From the Champ de Mars the visitors drove to the
Hotel des Invalides, and there occurred the most striking scene in the memorable visit, of
which the passages from the Queen's journal in the "Life of the Prince Consort," give so many
graphic, interesting details. Passing between rows of French veterans, the Queen and the Prince
went to look by torchlight at the great tomb, in which, however, all that was mortal of Napoleon
I. had not yet been laid. The coffin still rested in a side chapel, to which her Majesty was
taken by the Emperor. The coffin was covered with black velvet and gold, and the orders, hat,
and sword of "le Petit Caporal" were placed at the foot. The Queen descended for a few minutes
into the vault, the air of which struck cold on the living within its walls.

The Emperor took his guests in the evening to the Opera Comique. It was not a State visit,
but "God save the Queen" was sung, and her Majesty had to show herself in front of the Emperor's
private box. On Saturday the royal party went to the forest of St. Germain's, and a halt was
made at the hunting-lodge of La Muette. The Grand Veneur and his officials in their hunting-dress
of dark-green velvet, red waistcoats, high boots, and cocked hats, received the company. The
dogs were exhibited, and a fanfare sounded on the huntsmen's horns.

The strangers repaired to the old palace of St. Germain's, where her Majesty saw the suite
of rooms which had served as a home for her unhappy kinsman, James II. It is said she went
also to his tomb, and stood by it in thoughtful silence for a few minutes. On the return drive
to St. Cloud detours were made to Malmaison, where the Emperor remembered to have seen his
grandmother, the Empress Josephine, and to the fortress of St. Valerien.

The same night there was a State ball at Versailles. At the top of the grand staircase stood
the Empress--"like a fairy queen or nymph," her Majesty writes, "in a white dress trimmed with
bunches of grass and diamonds, ..." wearing her Spanish and Portuguese orders. The enamoured
Emperor exclaimed in the hearing of his guests, "Comme tu es belle!" (how beautiful you are!)
The long Galerie de Glaces, full of people, was blazing with light, and had wreaths of flowers
hanging from the ceiling. From the windows the illuminated trellis was seen reflected in the
splashing water of the fountains. The balconies commanded a view of the magnificent fireworks,
among which Windsor Castle was represented in lines of light.

The Queen danced two quadrilles, with the Emperor and Prince Napoleon, Prince Albert dancing
with Princess Mathilde and the Princess of Augustenburg. Among the guests presented to her
Majesty was Count Bismarck, Prussian Minister at Frankfort.

The Queen waltzed with the Emperor, and then repaired to the famous Oeil-de-Boeuf, hung with
Beauvais tapestry. After the company had gone to supper, the Queen and the Emperor's procession
was formed, and headed by guards, officers, &c. &c, they passed to the theatre, where supper
was served. The whole stage was covered in, and four hundred people sat in groups of ten, each
presided over by a lady, at forty small tables. Innumerable chandeliers and garlands of flowers
made the scene still gayer. The boxes were full of spectators, and an invisible band was playing.
The Queen and Prince Albert, with their son and daughter, the Emperor and the Empress, Prince
Napoleon, Princess Mathilde, and Prince Adalbert of Bavaria, sat at a small table in the central
box. Her Majesty seems to have been much struck with this Versailles ball, which was designed
and arranged by the Empress from a plate of the time of Louis XV. It was said there had been
no ball at Versailles since the time of Louis XVI. The last must have been the ball in the
Orangery, on the night that the Bastille fell.

Sunday was Prince Albert's birthday, which was not forgotten among these brilliant doings.
Loving hands laid out the flower-decorated table with its gifts. At luncheon the Emperor presented
the Prince with a picture by Meissonier. The Empress gave a pokal, or mounted cup, carved in
ivory. During a quiet drive with the Emperor through the park in the morning, the Queen, with
her characteristic sincerity, courageously approached a topic which was a burden on her mind,
on which Baron Stockmar had long advised her to act as she was prepared to do. She spoke of
her intercourse with the Orleans family, on which the French ambassador in London had laid
stress as likely to displease the Emperor. She said they were her friends and relations, and
that she could not drop them in their adversity, but that politics were never touched upon
between her and them. He professed himself perfectly satisfied, and sought in his turn to explain
his conduct in the confiscation and forced sale of the Orleans property.

The English Church service was read in a room at St. Cloud as before. In the afternoon the
Emperor took his guests to the memorial Chapelle de St. Ferdinand, erected on the spot where
the late Duc d'Orleans was killed.

On Monday, the 27th of August, the Queen wrote in her diary her deep gratitude for "these eight
happy days, for the delight of seeing such beautiful and interesting places and objects," and
for the reception she had met with in Paris and France. The Emperor arrived to say the Empress
was ready, but could not bring herself to face the parting, and that if the Queen would go
to her room it would make her come.

The morning was beautiful as the travellers, accompanied by the Emperor and Empress, drove
for the last time through the town of St. Cloud, with its Zouaves and wounded soldiers from
the Crimea, under the Arc de Triomphe, where the ashes of the great Napoleon had passed, to
Paris and the Tuileries. There was talk of future meetings at Windsor and Fontainbleau. (And
now of the places which the Queen admired so much, St. Cloud and the Tuileries are in ruins
like Neuilly, while the Hotel de Ville has perished by the hands of its own children.) Leave
was taken of the Empress not without emotion;

At the Strasbourg railway station the Ministers and municipal authorities were in attendance,
and the cordiality was equal to the respect shown by all.

Boulogne, to which the Emperor accompanied his guests, was reached between five and six in
the afternoon. There was a review of thirty- six thousand infantry, besides cavalry, on the
sands. The Queen describes the beautiful effect of the background of calm, blue sea, while
"the glorious crimson light" of the setting sun was gilding the thousands of bayonets, lances,
&c. It was the spot where Napoleon I. inspected the army with which he was prepared to invade
England; while Nelson's fleet, which held him in check, occupied the anchorage where the Queen's
squadron lay. Before embarking, her Majesty and Prince Albert drove to the French camps in
the neighbourhood.

At last, when it was only an hour from midnight, in splendid moonlight, through a town blazing
with fireworks and illuminations, with bands playing, soldiers saluting, and a great crowd
cheering as if it was noonday, the Queen and the Prince returned to their yacht, accompanied
by the Emperor. As if loth to leave them, he proposed to go with them a little way. The parting
moment came, the Queen and the Emperor embraced, and he shook hands warmly with the Prince,
the Prince of Wales, and the Princess Royal. Again at the side of the vessel, her Majesty pressed
her late host's hand, and embraced him with an, "Adieu, sire." As he saw her looking over the
side of the ship and watching his barge, he called out, "Adieu, Madame, au revoir," to which
the Queen answered, "Je l'espere bien."

On the 6th of September the Court went to Scotland, staying a night at Holyrood, as usual in
those years. On the Queen's arrival she drove through the old castle of Balmoral, the new house
being habitable, though much of the building was still unfinished. An old shoe was thrown after
her Majesty, Scotch fashion, for luck, as she entered the northern home, where everything charmed
her.

On the 10th of September the Duchess of Kent, who was staying at Abergeldie, dined with the
Queen. At half-past ten despatches arrived for her Majesty and Lord Granville, the Cabinet
Minister in attendance. The Queen began reading hers, which was from Lord Clarendon, with news
of the destruction of Russian ships. Lord Granville said, "I have still better news," on which
he read, "'From General Simpson. Sebastopol is in the hands of the allies.'" "God be praised
for it," adds the Queen.

Great was the rejoicing. Prince Albert determined to go up Craig Gowan and light the bonfire
which had been ready the year before, had been blown down on the day of the battle of Inkermann,
and was at last only waiting to be lit. All the gentlemen, in every species of attire, all
the servants, and gradually the whole population of the little village, keepers and gillies,
were aroused and started, in the autumn night, for the summit of the hill. The happy Queen
watched from below the blazing light above. Numerous figures surrounded it, "some dancing,
all shouting; Ross (the Queen's piper) playing his pipes (surely the most exultant of pibrochs),
and Grant and Macdonald firing off guns continually," the late Sir E. Gordon's old Alsatian
servant striving to add his French contribution to the festivities by lighting squibs, half
of which would not go off. When Prince Albert returned he described the health-drinking in
whiskey as wild and exciting.

An event of great importance to the Queen and her family was now impending. A proposal of marriage
for the Princess Royal--still only fifteen years of age--had been made by the Prince of Prussia,
the heir of the childless king, in the name of the Prince's only son, Prince Frederick William,
a young man of four-and-twenty, nearly ten years the Princess's senior. From the friendship
which had long existed between the Queen and the Prince and the Princess of Prussia, their
son was well-known and much liked in the English royal family, and the youthful Princess Royal
was favourably inclined to him. The proposal was graciously received, on certain conditions.
Of course the marriage of the young Princess could not take place for some time. She had not
even been confirmed. She ought to be allowed to know her mind fully. The couple must become
better acquainted. It was agreed at first that nothing should be said to the Princess Royal
on the subject till after her confirmation. But when the wooer arrived to pay a delightfully
private visit to the family in their Highland retreat, the last interdict was judged too hard,
and he was permitted to plead his cause under the happiest auspices.

We have pleasant little glimpses in her Majesty's journal, and Prince Albert's letters, of
what was necessarily of the utmost moment to all concerned; nay, as the contracting parties
were of such high estate, excited the lively sympathies of two great nations. The Prince writes
in a half tender, half humorous fashion, of the young couple to Baron Stockmar, "The young
man, 'really in love,' 'the little lady' doing her best to please him." The critical moment
came during a riding party up the heathery hill of Craig-na-Ban and down Glen Girnock, when,
with a sprig of white heather for "luck" in his hand, like any other trembling suitor, the
lover ventured to say the decisive words, which were not repulsed. Will the couple ever forget
that spot on the Scotch hillside, when they fill the imperial throne of Charlemagne? They have
celebrated their silver wedding-day with loud jubilees, may their golden wedding still bring
welcome memories of Craig-na-Ban and its white heather.

The Court had travelled south to Windsor, and in the following month, in melancholy contrast
to the family circumstances in which all had been rejoicing, her Majesty and the Prince had
the sorrowful intelligence that her brother, the Prince of Leiningen, while still only in middle
age, just over fifty, had suffered from a severe apoplectic attack.

In November the King of Sardinia visited England. His warm welcome was due not only to his
patriotic character, which made Victor Emmanuel's name a household word in this country, but
to the fact that the Sardinians were acting along with the French as our allies in the Crimea.
He was royally entertained at Windsor, saw Woolwich and Portsmouth, received an address at
Guildhall, and was invested with the Order of the Garter. He left before five the next morning,
when, in spite of the early hour, the intense cold, and a snowstorm, the Queen took a personal
farewell of her guest.

In the beginning of 1896 the Queen and the Prince were again wounded by newspaper attacks on
him, in consequence of his having signed his name, as Colonel of the Grenadier Guards, among
the other officers of the Guards, to a memorial to the Queen relating to the promotion and
retirement of the officers.

On the 31st of January her Majesty opened Parliament amidst much enthusiasm, in a session which
was to decide the grave question of peace or war. In March the welcome news arrived that the
Empress of the French had given birth to a son.

On the 20th of March the ceremony of the confirmation of the Princess Royal took place in the
private chapel, Windsor. The Archbishop of Canterbury and the Bishop of Oxford, Lord High Almoner,
officiated, in the presence of the Queen and the royal family, the Ministers, Officers of State,
&c. Prince Albert led in the Princess; her Godfather, King Leopold, followed with the Queen.
Bishop Wilberforce made a note of the scene in a few words. "To Windsor Castle. The confirmation
of Princess Royal. Interesting. She devout, composed, earnest. Younger sister much affected.
The Queen and Prince also."

On the 30th of March peace was signed. London became aware of it by the firing of the Park
and the Tower guns at ten o'clock at night. The next morning the Lord Mayor, on the balcony
of the Mansion House, read a despatch from the Secretary of State, to a large crowd assembled
in the street, who received the tidings with loud cheers. At noon his Lordship, preceded by
the civic functionaries, went on foot to the Exchange and read the despatch there.

The Tower guns were again fired, the church-bells rang merry peals, flags were hung out from
all the public buildings. A few days afterwards the Queen conferred on Lord Palmerston the
Order of the Garter--a frank and cordial acknowledgment of his services, which the high-spirited
statesman received with peculiar pleasure.

On the 18th of April her Majesty and Prince Albert went to Aldershot to commemorate the completion
of the camp and review the troops, when the Queen spent her first night in camp, in the pavilion
prepared for her use. On one of the two days she wore a Field-Marshal's uniform, with the Star
and Order of the Garter, and a dark blue riding habit. Within a week, in magnificent weather,
Her Majesty and Prince Albert inspected a great fleet at Spithead.

After Easter Lord Ellesmere, in his last appearance in the House of Lords, moved the address
to the Queen on the peace, and spoke the feelings of the nation when he expressed in the words
of a poet the country's deep debt of gratitude to Florence Nightingale. On the 8th of May the
Lords and Commons went in procession to Buckingham Palace to present their addresses to the
Queen. The same evening she gave a State ball--the first in the new ball-room--to celebrate
the peace.

Lord Dalhousie returned in this month of May from India, where he had been Governor-General.
He was a hopeless invalid, while still only in his forty-fifth year. The moment the Queen heard
of his arrival, she wrote to him a letter of welcome, for which her faithful servant thanked
her in simple and touching words, as for "the crowning honour of his life." He could not tell
what the end of his illness might be, but he ventured to say that her Majesty's most gracious
words would be a balm for it all.

On the 19th of May the Queen laid the foundation of the military hospital at Netley, which
she had greatly at heart.

In June a serious accident, which might have been fatal, occurred to the Princess Royal while
her promised bridegroom was on a visit to this country. Indeed he was much in England in those
days, appearing frequently in public along with the royal family, to the gratification of romantic
hearts that delighted to watch young royal lovers. She was sealing a letter at a table when
the sleeve of her light muslin dress caught fire and blazed up in a moment. Happily she was
not alone. The Princess's governess, Miss Hildyard, was at the same table, and Princess Alice
was receiving a lesson from her music-mistress in the room. By their presence of mind in wrapping
the hearthrug round the Princess Royal, who herself showed great self possession under the
shock and pain of the accident, her life was probably saved. The arm was burnt from below the
elbow to the shoulder, though not so as to be permanently disfigured. Lady Bloomfield has a
pretty story about this accident. She has been describing the Princess as "quite charming.
Her manners were so perfectly unaffected and unconstrained, and she was full of fun." The writer
goes on to say, "When she, the Princess, burnt her arm, she never uttered a cry; she said 'Don't
frighten mamma--send for papa first.'" She wrote afterwards to her music- mistress, dictating
the letter and signing it with her left hand, to tell how she was, because she knew the lady,
who had been present when the accident happened, would be anxious.

King Leopold, his younger son, and his lovely young daughter, Princess Charlotte, were among
the Queen's visitors this summer, and a little later came the Prince and Princess of Prussia
to improve their acquaintance with their future daughter-in-law.

In July the Queen and the Prince were again at Aldershott to review the troops returned from
the Crimea. But the weather, persistently wet, spoilt what would otherwise have been a joyous
as well as a glorious scene. During a short break in the rain, the Crimean regiments formed
three sides of a square round the carriage in which the Queen sat. The officers and four men
of each of the troops that had been under fire "stepped out," and the Queen, standing up in
the carriage, addressed them. "Officers, non-commissioned officers, and soldiers, I wish personally
to convey through you to the regiments assembled here this day my hearty welcome on their return
to England in health and full efficiency. Say to them that I have watched anxiously over the
difficulties and hardships which they have so nobly borne, that I have mourned with deep sorrow
for the brave men who have fallen in their country's cause, and that I have felt proud of that
valour which, with their gallant allies, they have displayed on every field. I thank God that
your dangers are over, while the glory of your deeds remains; but I know that should your services
be again required, you will be animated with the same devotion which in the Crimea has rendered
you invincible."

When the clear, sweet voice was silent, a cry of "God save the Queen!" sprang to every lip.
Helmets, bearskins, and shakos were thrown into the air; the dragoons waved their sabres, and
a shout of loyal acclamation, caught up from line to line, rang through the ranks.

The next day, in summer sunshine, the Queen and her City of London welcomed home the Guards.
In anticipation of a brilliant review in the park, she saw them march past from the central
balcony of Buckingham Palace, as she had seen them depart on the chill February morning more
than two years before: another season and another scene--not unchastened in its triumph, for
many a once-familiar face was absent, and many a yearning thought wandered to Russian hill
and plain and Turkish graveyard, where English sleepers rested till the great awakening.

An old soldier figured before the Queen and the Prince in circumstances which filled them with
sorrow and pity. Lord Hardinge, the Commander-in-Chief, was having an audience with the Queen,
when he was suddenly struck by paralysis. He resigned his post, to which the Duke of Cambridge
was appointed. Lord Hardinge died a few months afterwards.

After several yachting excursions, marred by stormy weather, the Court went north, and reached
Balmoral on the 30th of August. The tower and the offices, with the terraces and pleasure-grounds,
were finished, and every trace of the old house had disappeared. The Balmoral of to- day, though
it still lacked what has become some of its essential features, stood before the Queen. We
are fain to make it stand before our readers as it is now.

The road to Balmoral may be said to begin with the Strath at Aberdeen. The farther west the
railway runs, the higher grow the mountains and the narrower waxes the valley. Yet the Highlands
proper are held to commence only at Ballater, the little northern town with its gray square,
and its pleasant inn by the bridge over the rushing Dee. The whole is set between the wooded
hills of Pannanich and Craigendarroch, the last-named from the oak wood which crowns its summit.
The Prince of Wales's house, Birkhall, stands back from the road on a green eminence with the
mountain rising behind, and in front the river Muich running down to join the Dee.

At Ballater the railway ends, and two picturesque roads follow the course of the river, one
on each side, the first passing Crathie, the other going through the fir and birch woods of
Abergeldie on the same side as Balmoral. Both command grand glimpses of the mountains, which
belong to the three great ranges of the district--Cairngorm, Glengairn, and Loch-na-Gar.

Approaching on the Crathie side, the stranger is struck with the frequent tokens of a life
that was once the presiding genius of this place, which passing away in its prime, has left
the shadow of a great grief, softened by the merciful touch of time. The haunting presence,
mild in its manliness and gentle in its strength, of a princely benefactor common to all, has
displaced the grim phantoms of old chieftains and reigns in their stead. It hovers over the
dearly loved Highland home with its fitting touch of stateliness in the middle of its simplicity,
over the forest where a true sportsman stalked the deer, over the streams and lochs in which
he fished, and the paths he trod by hill and glen. We are made to remember that Balmoral was
the Prince Consort's property, that he bought it for his possession, as Osborne was the Queen's,
and that it was by a bequest in his will that it came, with all its memories, to his widow.
Three different monuments to the Prince, on as many elevations above the castle, at once attract
the eye. The highest and most enduring, seen from many quarters and at considerable distances,
is a gable-like cairn on the summit of a hill. It is here that such of the Prince's sons as
are in the neighbourhood, and all the tenantry and dependents who can comply with the invitation,
assemble on the Prince Consort's birthday and drink to his memory.

Lower down stands a representation of the noble figure of the Prince, attended by his greyhound,
Eos. On another spur of the same hill is an obelisk, erected by the tenantry and servants to
the master who had their interests so deeply at heart.

The castle, like its smaller predecessor of which this pile of building has taken the place,
stands in a haugh or meadow at the foot of a hill, within a circle of mountain-tops. The porter's
ledge and gate might belong to the hunting-seat of any gentleman of taste and means; only the
fact that, even when her Majesty is not in residence, a constable of police is in attendance,
marks the difference between sovereign and subject.

Within the gate the surroundings are still wild and rural, in keeping with nature free and
unshackled, and have a faint flavour of German parks where the mowing-machine is not always
at work, but a sweet math of wild flowers three or four feet high is supposed to cheat the
dweller in courtly palaces into a belief that he too is at liberty to breathe the fresh air
without thought or care, and roam where he will, free from the fetters of form and etiquette.

Great innocent moon-daises, sprightly harebells, sturdy heather, bloom profusely and seem much
at home within these royal precincts, under the brow of the hills and within sight and sound
of the flashing Dee. Gradually the natural birch wood shows more traces of cultivation, and
is interspersed with such trees and shrubs as suit the climate, and the rough pasture gives
place to the smooth lawn, with a knot of bright flower-beds on one side.

The house is built of reddish granite in what is called the baronial style, with a sprinkling
of peaked gables and pepper-box turrets, and a square tower with a clock which is said to keep
the time all over the parish. Above the principal entrance are the coats of arms, carved, coloured,
and picked out with gold. There are two bas-reliefs serving to indicate the character of the
building--a hunting-lodge under the patronage of St. Hubert, supported by St. Andrew of Scotland
and St. George of England, the stag between whose antlers the sacred cross sprang, forming
part of the representation. The other bas-relief shows groups of men engaged in Highland games.

Within doors many a relic of the chase appears in antlered heads surmounting inscriptions in
brass of the date of the slaying of the stag and the name of the slayer. The engravings on
the walls are mostly of mountain landscapes and sporting scenes, in which Landseer's hand is
prominent, and of family adventures in making this ascent or crossing that ford.

The furniture is as Scotch as may be--chairs and tables, with few exceptions, of polished birch
hangings and carpets with the tartan check on the velvet pile, the royal "sets" in all their
bewildering variety: "royal Stewart," strong in scarlet; "Victoria," with the check relieved
on a white ground; "Albert," on a deep blue, and "hunting Stewart," which suddenly passes into
a soft vivid green, crossed by lines of red and yellow.

Drawing-room, dining-room, billiard-room, and library are spacious enough for royalty, while
small enough for comfort when royalty is in happy retreat in little more than a large family
circle rusticating from choice. The corridors look brown and simple, like the rest of the house,
and lack the white statuary of Osborne, and the superb vases, cabinets, and pictures of Buckingham
Palace and Windsor. By the chimney-piece in the entrance hall rest the tattered colours once
borne through flood and field by two famous regiments, one of them "the Cameronians."

In the drawing-room is a set of chairs with covers in needlework sewed by a cluster of industrious
ladies-in-waiting. In the library hangs a richly wrought wreath of flowers in porcelain, an
offering from Messrs. Minton to the Queen. On the second story are the private rooms of her
Majesty and the different members of the royal family. Perhaps the ballroom, a long hall, one
story in height, running out from the building like an afterthought, is one of the most picturesque
features of the place. The decorations consist of devices placed at intervals on the walls.
These devices are made up of Highland weapons, Highland plaids, Highland bonnets bearing the
chief's feather or the badge of the clan. Doubtless tufts of purple heather and russet bracken,
with bunches of the coral berries of the rowan, will supplement other adornments as the occasion
calls for them; and when the lights gleam, the pipers strike up, and the nimble dancers foot
it with grace and glee through reel [Footnote: "Yesterday we had the Gillies' Ball, at which
Arthur distinguished himself and was greatly applauded in the Highland reels. Next to Jamie
Gow, he was the 'favourite in the room.'"--Extract from one of the Prince Consort's letters.]
and sword- dance, the effect must be excellent of its kind. For long years the balls at Balmoral
have been mostly kindly festivals to the humble friends who look forward to the royal visits
as to the galas of the year, the greater part of which is spent in a remote solitude not without
the privations which accompany a northern winter.

The parish church of Crathie, a little, plain, white building, well situated on a green, wooded
knoll, looks across the Dee to Balmoral. The church is notable for its wide, red-covered gallery
seats, to which the few plain pews in the area below bear a small proportion. The Queen's arms
are in front of the gallery, which contains her seat and that of the Prince of Wales. Opposite
are two stained-glass windows, representing King David with his harp, and St. Paul with the
sword of the Spirit and the word of God, gifts of the Queen in memory of her sister, the Princess
of Hohenlohe, and of Dr. Norman Macleod. Famous speakers and still more famous hearers have
worshipped together in this simple little country church. Macleod, Tulloch, Caird, Macgregor--the
foremost orators in the Church of Scotland--have taken their turn with the scholarly parish
minister, while in the pews, bearing royalty company, have sat statesmen and men of letters
of whom the world has heard: Lord Derby, Mr. Gladstone, Dean Stanley, Sir Arthur Helps, &c., &c.

The old churchyard in which John Brown, the Queen's trusty Scotch servant, faithful as a squire
of old, sleeps, lies down in the low land near the Dee. John Brown's house, solid and unpretending
like the man himself, which he only occupied once, when his coffin lay for a night in the dining-room,
is in the neighbourhood.

The Queen has white cottages not far from the castle gate, built on the model of the Osborne
cottages, pretty and convenient homes of keepers, keepers' widows, &c., &c., with the few artisans
whose services are necessary for the small population. There are other cottages of the old,
homely sort, containing no more than "the butt and the benn" of stereotyped Scotch architecture,
with the fire made of "peats" or of sticks on the hearth-floor. In some of these, the walls
of the better rooms are covered with good plates and photographs of every member of the royal
family, with whose lineaments we are familiar, from the widowed Queen to the last royal couple
among her grandchildren. These likenesses are much-valued gifts from the originals.

As a nucleus to the cottages, there is the shop or Highland store with a wide door and a couple
of counters representing two branches of trade in the ordinarily distinct departments of groceries
and haberdashery. Probably this is the one shop in her Majesty's domains in which, as we have
evidence in her journal, [Footnote: "Life in the Highlands"--Queen's journal. "Albert went
out with Alfred for the day, and I walked out with the two girls and Lady Churchill, stopped
at the shop and made some purchases for poor people and others. We drove back and got out again
to visit old Mrs. Grant (Grant's mother), who is so tidy and clean, and to whom I gave a dress
and a handkerchief; and she said, 'You're too kind to me, you're over kind to me, ye give me
more every year, and I get older every year.' After talking some time to her, she said, 'I
am happy to see ye looking so nice.' She had tears in her eyes, and speaking of Vicky's going
said, 'I'm very sorry, and I think she is sorry hersel'.'..."] she avails herself of the feminine
privilege of shopping. For the Queen can live the life of a private lady--can show herself
the most considerate and sympathetic of noble gentlewomen in this primitive locality. She can
walk or drive her ponies, or visit on foot her commissioner or her minister, or look in at
her school, or call on her sick, aged, and poor, and take to them the comforts she has provided
for them, the tokens of her remembrance they prize so much. She can enjoy their simple friendliness
and native shrewdness. She can read to them words of lofty promise and tender consolation.
She can do all as if she were not crowned Queen and ruler of a great kingdom. In hardly any
other part of her empire would such pleasant familiar intercourse and gentle personal charities
be possible for her. The association has been deepened and strengthened by a duration of more
than thirty years. The Queen came while still a young wife to Balmoral, and she has learnt
to love and be loved by her neighbours in the long interval which leaves her a royal widow
of threescore. Her children were fair-haired little boys and girls, making holiday here, playing
at riding and shooting, getting into scrapes like other children, [Footnote: There is a story
told of one of the little princes having chased an old woman's hen and been soundly scolded
by her for the offence. Her neighbours remonstrated with her, and her heart failed her when,
a few days afterwards, she saw the Prince Consort coming up the path to her house leading the
small offender. But the visit was one of courteous deprecation, in order that the little hunter
of forbidden game might personally apologise for his delinquency.] prattling to the old women
in "mutches" and "short gowns," whose houses were so charmingly queer and convenient, with
the fires on the hearths to warm cold little toes, and the shadowy nooks ready for hide-and-seek.
These children are now older than their mother was when she first came up Dee-side, heads of
houses in their turn, but they have not forgotten the friends of their youth.

The rustic community is pervaded in an odd and fascinating manner with the fine flavour of
a Court. It has, as it were, a touch of Arcady. Among tales of the great storms and fragments
of old legends, curious reflections of high life and gossip of lords and ladies crop up. Not
only are noble names and distinguished personages, everyday sounds and friendly acquaintances
in this privileged region, but when the great world follows its liege lady here, it is to live
in villiagiatura, to copy her example in adapting itself to the ways of the place and in cultivating
the natives. Courtiers are only courtly in being frankly at ease with the whole human race.
Ladies-in-waiting and maids of honour lose their pride of rank and worldly ambition--if they
ever had any, stroll about, drop into this or that cottage at will, and have their cronies
there as in loftier localities. We hear of this or that marriage, which has yet to be announced
in the Morning Post; how a noble duke, who was conveniently in attendance on the Prince, once
walked with a fair and gentle lady, whose father was in waiting on the Queen, through the birch
woods and by the brawling Dee, and a marriage, only too shortlived, came of it. And we end
by listening to the piteous details of the swift fading away of the much-loved young duchess.
Other names, with which the Court Calendar has made us familiar, are constantly coming to the
surface in the conversation, generally in association with some act of cheery good fellowship.
The son of an earl found a dog for his mother at one of these cottage hearths, and never returned
to the neighbourhood without punctually reporting himself to tell its old mistress how well
her former pet was thriving--that it had its dinner with the family in the dining-room, and
drove every day with the countess in her carriage.

The fine old white house of Abergeldie, with its single-turreted tower, has become the Scotch
home of a genial prince and a beautiful princess, who, we may remember, remained steadfastly
settled there during the darkening, shortening days of a gloomy autumn, in devoted watch over
her lady-in-waiting lying sick, nigh unto death with fever. Abergeldie has another cherished
memory, that of the good old Duchess of Kent, for whom Prince Albert first rented the castle,
who often stayed in it, accompanied by her son, the Prince of Leiningen, her daughter, the
Princess of Hohenlohe, or some member of their families. The peculiar cradle which used to
be swung across the Dee here, conveying passengers as well as parcels, has been removed in
consequence of the last disaster which befell its progress. An earlier tragedy of a hapless
bride and bridegroom who perished in making the passage is still remembered. Remoter traditions,
like that of the burning of a witch on Craig-na-Ban, linger in the neighbourhood.

Beyond Balmoral, in the Braemar direction, stretches the fine deer- forest--a great fir-wood
on broken ground--of Ballochbuie, a remnant of the old forest of Mar, where a pretended hunting
expedition meant a projected rebellion. It is said an earl of that name bestowed it on a Farquaharson
in exchange for so small a matter as a plaid. It is now part of the estate of Balmoral. The
hills of Craig Nortie and Meal Alvie lie not far off, while on the opposite side rise Craig-na-Ban
and Craig Owsel.

Of all the Queen's haunts, that which she has made most her own, where she has stayed for a
day or two at a time, seeming to prefer to do so when the hills have received their first powdering
of snow, [Footnote: "A little shower of snow had fallen, but was succeeded by brilliant sunshine.
The hills covered with snow, the golden birch-trees on the lower brown hills, and the bright
afternoon sky, were indescribably beautiful"--Extract from the Queen's journal.] almost every
year during her residence in Aberdeenshire, is that which includes Alt-na- Giuthasach and the
Glassalt Shiel. This retreat is now reached by a good carriage-road over a long tract of moorland
among brown hills, opening now and then in different directions to show vistas closed in by
the giant heads and shoulders--here of dark Loch-na-Gar, there of Ben Macdhui, both of them
presenting great white splashes on their seamed and scarred sides--wide patches of winter snow
on this July day, far more than usual at the season, which will not melt now while the year
lasts. "Burns," the Girnoch and the Muich, trot by turns along with us, singing their stories,
half blythe, half plaintive. Once or twice a lowly farmhouse has a few grass or oat-fields
spread out round it, with the solitude of the hills beyond. A cross-road to such a house was
so bad that a dog-cart brought up to it, had been unyoked and left by the side of the main
road, while its occupants trudged to their destination on foot, leading with them the horse,
which needed rest and refreshment still more than its masters. The blue waters of Loch Muich
come in sight with bare precipitous hills round; a little wood clothes the mouth of the pass
and the loch, and helps to shelter Alt-na-Ginthasach. The hut is now the Prince of Wales's
small shooting-lodge. The modest blue stone building, with its brown wooden porch and its offices
behind, is built on a knoll, and commands a beautiful view of the loch and the steep rocky
crags to those who care for nature at the wildest. The only vestige of soft green is the knoll
on which the hut stands. All the rest is bleak and brown, or purple when the heather is in
bloom. The hills, torn by the winter torrents, are glistening after a summer shower with a
hundred silver threads in the furrows of the watercourses.

There are fences and gates to the royal domicile, but there is hardly an attempt to alter its
character within, unless by a round plot of rhododendrons offering a few late blossoms. But
all nature, however stern and savage, smiles on a July day. The purple heather-bell is in bloom,
the tiny blue milkwort and the yellow rock-rose help to make a summer carpet which is rendered
still gayer by many a pale peach- coloured orchis and by an occasional spray of wild roses,
deeper in the rose than the same flower is in the low countries, or by a tall white foxglove.
Loch Muich may be desolation itself when the heather and bracken are sere, when the lowering
sky breathes nothing save gloom, and chill mist-wreaths creep round its precipices; but when
the air is buoyant in its tingling sharpness, when the dappled white clouds are reflected in
water--blue, not leaden, and there is enough sunshine to cast intermittent shadows on the hillsides
and the loch, though a transient darkness and a patter of raindrops vary the scene, it has
its day and way of blossoming.

The Queen's house or shiel of the Glassalt stands near the head of the two miles long loch,
just beyond the point where the Glassalt burn comes leaping and dashing down the hillside.
Here, too, is a small sheltering fir and birch plantation, though not large enough to hide
the full view of the sentinel hills. A "roundel" of Alpenrosen, or dwarf rhododendrons, is
the only break in the growth of moss and heather. The loch is so near the house that a stone
thrown by a child's hand from the windows of the principal rooms would fall into the watery depths.

The interior is almost as simple and limited in accommodation as Alt- na-Giuthasach was when
the Queen described it in her journal. The dining-room and drawing-room might, in old fashioned
language, be called "royal closets"--cosy and sweet with chintz hangings and covers to chairs
and couches, a small cottage piano, a book-tray in which Hill Burton's "History of Scotland"
and Sir Walter Scott's "Tales of a Grandfather," find their place among Scotch poetry old and
new. The engravings on the walls tell of that fidelity to the dead which implies truth to the
living. There are likenesses of the Prince--who died before this house was built, as in the
great palaces; the Duchess of Hesse--best known in the north as Princess Alice; the Princess
of Hohenlohe, with her handsome matronly face, full of sense and kindness, and her young daughter,
Princess Elise, who passed away in the springtime of her life. In these rustic sitting-rooms
and the adjacent bedrooms and dressing-rooms we come again on many a portrait of the humble
friends of the family--the dogs which we seem to know so well; the early group of little Dash
and big Nero, and Hector with the parrot Lorey; Cairnach, Islay, Deckel, &c. [Footnote: An
anecdote of the royal kennels states that when no notice has been given, the servants shall
know of her Majesty's presence in the vicinity, and will say among themselves, "The Queen is
at Frogmore" by the actions of the dogs, the stir and excitement, the eager listening, sniffing
of the air, wagging of tails, and common desire to break bounds and scamper away to greet their
royal mistress.]

Behind the house a winding footpath leads up the hill to the rocky cleft from which issues
in a succession of white and foamy twists and downward springs, the Falls of the Glassalt.
Turning round from the spectacle, the stranger looks down on the loch in its semicircle of
mountains. Gaining the crest of the hill and descending the edge on the opposite side, the
foot of the grim giant Loch-na-Gar is reached.

Among the visitors at Balmoral in 1858 was Florence Nightingale. The Queen had before this
presented her with a jewel in remembrance of her services in the Crimea. The design was as
follows: a field of white enamel was charged with a St. George's cross in ruby red enamel,
from which shot rays of gold. This field was encircled by a black band bearing the scroll "Blessed
are the merciful." The shield was set in a framework of palm-branches in green enamel tipped
with gold, and united at the bottom by a riband of blue enamel inscribed "Crimea" in gold letters.
The cypher V.R. surmounted by a crown in diamonds, was charged upon the centre of the cross.
On the back was a gold tablet which bore an inscription from the hand of her Majesty.

While the Queen was in Scotland the marriage in Germany of one of the daughters of the Princess
of Hohenlohe took place. Princess Adelaide, like her sister Princess Elise, possessed of many
attractions, became the wife of Prince Frederick of Schleswig Holstein Sonderberg- Augustenberg,
the brother of Prince Christian, destined to become the husband of Princess Helena.

The court returned to Windsor in October, and in November a severe blow struck the Queen in
the death of her brother, the Prince of Leiningen. A second fit of apoplexy ended his life
while his sister, the Princess of Hohenlohe, watched by his death-bed. Prince Leiningen was
fifty-two years of age. He had served in the Bavarian army, and was a man of recognised influence
among his countrymen in the German troubles of 1848, which cost him his principality. He had
married in 1829, when he was twenty-seven years of age and when the Queen was only a little
girl of ten, Marie (nee) Countess of Kletelsberg. He left two sons, the eldest of whom, Prince
Ernest, entered the English navy.

Her Majesty's references to the death in her letters to King Leopold are very pathetic. "Oh!
dearest uncle, this blow is a heavy one, my grief very bitter. I loved my dearest, only brother,
most tenderly." And again, "We three were particularly fond of each other, and never felt or
fancied that we were not real geschwister (children of the same parents). We knew but one parent,
our mother, so became very closely united, and so I grew up; the distance which difference
of age placed between us entirely vanished...." The aged Duchess of Kent was "terribly distressed,
but calm and resigned."

Baron Stockmar was with the royal family at this time. It was his last visit to England. His
company, always earnestly coveted, especially by the Prince, was apt to be bestowed in an erratic
fashion characteristic of the man. Some one of the royal children would unexpectedly announce,
"Papa, do you know the Baron is in his room," which was the first news of his arrival.

During the stay of the Court at Osborne in December, the graceful gift of the Resolute was
made by the Americans to the Queen, and accepted by her Majesty in person, with marked gratification.
The Resolute was one of the English ships which had gone to the north seas in search of Sir
John Franklin. It had been abandoned in the ice, found by an American vessel, taken across
the Atlantic, refitted, and by a happy thought offered as a suitable token to the Queen.

On the 14th of April, 1857, the Queen's fifth daughter and ninth and last child was born at
Buckingham Palace. A fortnight afterwards the Duchess of Gloucester, the last of George the
III. and Queen Charlotte's children, died in her eighty-third year. The Queen wrote of her
to King Leopold, who must have been well acquainted with her in his youth, "Her age, and her
being a link with bygone times and generations, as well as her great kindness, amiability,
and unselfishness, rendered her more and more dear and precious to us all, and we all looked
upon her as a sort of grandmother." Sixty-two years before, when the venerable Princess was
a charming maiden of eighteen, she had gloried in the tidings of her princely cousin's laurels,
won on the battlefields of Flanders. More than twenty years afterwards, when Princess Charlotte
descended the staircase of Carlton House after her marriage with Prince Leopold, "she was met
at the foot with open arms by the Princess Mary, whose face was bathed in tears." The first
wedding had removed the obstacle to the second, which was celebrated a few weeks later. The
Duchess lived for eighteen years happily with her husband, then spent more than twenty years
in widowhood. She ended her long life at Gloucester House, Park Lane. At her earnest request,
she was buried without pomp or show with her people in the family vault at Windsor.

Before the late Duchess of Gloucester's funeral, Prince Albert, according to a previous pledge,
opened, on the 5th of May, the great Art Exhibition at Manchester, to which the Queen contributed
largely.

On the announcement to Parliament of the Princess Royal's approaching marriage, the House of
Commons voted in a manner gratifying to the Queen and the Prince a dowry of forty thousand,
with an annuity of eight thousand a year to the Princess.

At Osborne the Queen had a flying visit from one of her recent enemies, the Archduke Constantine,
the Admiral-in-Chief of the Russian navy.

On the 14th of June, the young Archduke Maximilian of Austria arrived. He was an object of
peculiar interest to the Queen and the Prince, as the future husband of their young cousin,
Princess Charlotte of Belgium. He seemed in every way worthy of the old king's careful choice
for his only daughter. Except in the matter of looks, he was all that could have been wished--good,
clever, kind. But man proposes and God disposes; so it happened that the marriage attended
by such bright and apparently well-founded hopes resulted in one of the most piteous tragedies
that ever befell a noble and innocent royal pair. Another bridegroom, Prince Frederick William,
was in England to meet the Archduke, and a third was hovering in the background in the person
of Don Pedro of Portugal, whose marriage with Princess Stephanie of Hohenzollern Prince Albert
had been requested to negotiate. Marriage- bells were in the air, and that must indeed have
been a joyous christening at which two of the bridegrooms were present. Prince Frederick William
of Prussia acted as godfather to his future little sister-in-law, while his betrothed bride
was one of the godmothers. The infant was named as her Majesty explained to King Leopold: "She
is to be called Beatrice, a fine old name, borne by three of the Plantaganet princesses, and
her other names will be Mary (after poor Aunt Mary), Victoria (after mamma and Vicky, who with
Fritz Wilhelm are to be the sponsors), and Feodore (the Queen's sister)." Her Majesty's last
baby was a beautiful infant, soon to exhibit bright and winning ways, the pet plaything of
her brothers and sisters, and especially of her father.

On the 25th of June the Queen conferred on Prince Albert, by letters patent, the title of "Prince
Consort." The change was desirable, to insure the proper recognition of his rank, as her Majesty's
husband, at foreign courts.

On the following day, the 26th, the interesting ceremony of the first bestowal of the Victoria
Cross took place in Hyde Park before many thousands of spectators. The idea was to provide
a decoration which might be earned by officers and soldiers alike, as it should be conferred
for a single merit--the highest a soldier could possess, yet in its performance open to all--devoted,
unselfish courage. Thus arose the most coveted and honourable of English orders, which confers
more glory on its wearer than the jewelled star of the Order of the Garter gives distinction.
In excellent keeping with the motive of the creation, the Maltese cross is of the plainest
material, iron from the cannon taken at Sebastopol; in the centre is the crown, surmounted
by the lion; below it the scroll "For Valour." On the clasp are branches of laurel; the cross
hangs suspended from it by the letter V--a red riband being for the army, a blue for the navy.
The decoration includes a pension of ten pounds a year. The arrangements for the ceremony were
similar to those at the distribution of the medals, except that her Majesty was on horseback.
She rode a grey roan, and wore a scarlet jacket with a black skirt. Stooping from her seat
on horseback, she pinned the cross on each brave man's breast, while the Prince saluted him
with "a gesture of marked respect." [Footnote: "Life of the Prince Consort."] Prince Frederick
William was with the royal party.

A few days afterwards, the Queen, the Prince, their two elder daughters and two elder sons
and Prince Frederick William of Prussia, a large party, paid a visit to Manchester, staying
two nights at Worsley Hall. They inspected the great picture exhibition, received addresses,
and traversed the streets to Peel Park, where a statue to her Majesty had been recently erected,
the whole amidst much rejoicing.

In the end of June, King Leopold arrived with his daughter on a farewell visit before her marriage,
so that there were two young brides comparing experiences and anticipating what the coming
years would bring, under her Majesty's wing. The princesses were nearly of an age, neither
quite seventeen. They had been playmates and friends since childhood, but the fates in store
for them were very different.

In the second week of July the freedom of the City of London was presented to Prince Frederick
William of Prussia; the Prince Consort was sworn in master of the Trinity House, and the Queen
and the Prince visited the camp at Aldershott. On the 27th the marriage of the Princess Charlotte
of Belgium and the Archduke Maximilian was celebrated at Brussels. The Prince went abroad for
a few days, to make one in the group of friends and relations, among whom was the old French
Queen Amelie, the grandmother of the bride. Queen Victoria wrote to King Leopold, that she
was present with them in spirit, and that she could not have given a greater proof of her love
than she had shown in urging her husband to go.

On the 6th of August, the Emperor of the French's yacht, with the Emperor and Empress on board,
arrived on the English coast, and a private visit of a few days' length was paid to the Queen
and the Prince at Osborne. On the 19th of August Her Majesty and the Prince, with six of their
children, in the royal yacht, paid an equally private visit to Cherbourg, in the absence of
the Emperor and Empress. During the short stay there was a long country drive to an old chateau,
when darkness overtook the adventurous party, and all was agreeably fresh and foreign.

By the beginning of September terrible tidings arrived from India. The massacre of the English
women and children at Cawnpore, after the surrender of the fort, and the perilous position
of the garrison at Lucknow, darkened the usually joyous stay at Balmoral, to which the Princess
Royal was paying her last visit. Another source of distress to the Queen and the Prince, when
the mutiny began to be put down, was the indiscriminate vengeance which a section of the rulers
in India seemed inclined to take on the natives for the brutalities of the rebels. At length
Lucknow was relieved, and England breathed freely again, though the country had to mourn the
death of Havelock. Sir Colin Campbell completed the defeat of the enemy, and the first steps
were taken to put an end to the complications of government in India, by bringing the great
colony directly under the rule of the Queen, and causing the intermediate authority of the
East India Company to cease.

CHAPTER XXX.

THE MARRIAGE OF THE PRINCESS ROYAL.

In the end of 1857 there were many preparations for the marriage of the Princess Royal in the
month of January in the coming year. In the interval a calamity occurred at Claremont which
revived the recollection of the great disaster in the early years of the century, and was deeply
felt by the Queen and the Prince Consort. The pretty and gentle Victoire, Duchesse de Nemours,
the Queen and the Prince Consort's cousin, and his early playfellow, had given birth to a princess,
and appeared to be recovering, in spite of her presentiment to the contrary. The Queen had
gone to see and congratulate her. The old Queen Amelie and the Duc de Nemours had been at Windsor
full of thankfulness for the happy event. The Duchess was sitting up in bed, looking cheerfully
at the new dress in which she was to rejoin the family circle next day, when in a second she
fell back dead.

Another shock was the news of the Orsini bomb, which exploded close to the Emperor and Empress
of the French as they were about to enter the opera-house.

The marriage of the Princess Royal was fixed for the 25th of January, 1858. On the 15th the
Court left Windsor for Buckingham Palace, when the Queen's diary records the sorrow with which
the young bride relinquished many of the scenes and habits of her youth. One sentence recalls
vividly the kindly family ties which united the royal children. Her Majesty writes, "She slept
for the last time in the same room with Alice." In the course of the next few days all the
guests had assembled, including, King Leopold and his sons, the Prince and Princess of Prussia,
the Duke of Saxe Coburg, with minor princes and princesses, to the number of nearly thirty,
so that even Buckingham Palace was hardly large enough to hold the guests and their suites.
At the nightly dinner party from eighty to ninety covers were laid. But one old friend was
absent, to the regret of all, and not least so of the bride. Baron Stockmar was too ill to
accept the invitation to be present at the ceremony. One of his sons was to accompany the Princess
to Berlin as her treasurer. In truth, neither the father nor the mother of the bride of seventeen
had reached the age of forty.

The first of the public festivities were three of the four State visits to Her Majesty's Theatre,
"when the whole of the boxes on one side of the grand tier had been thrown into one" for the
royal company gracing the brilliant audience--which, as on a former occasion, filled the back
of the stage as well as the rest of the house. The plays and operas were, Macbeth, in which
Helen Faucit acted, [Footnote: Another great actress had just passed away in her prime. Mademoiselle
Rachel had died in the beginning of this month, near Cannes.] Twice Killed, The Rose of Castille,
Somnambula. At the first performance, the Queen sat between the King of the Belgians and the
Prince of Prussia. After the play, "God save the Queen" was sung with much enthusiasm.

As when her own marriage had occurred, all the nation sympathised with Her Majesty. It was
as if from every house a cherished young daughter was being sent with honour and blessing.
The Princess Royal, always much liked, appealed especially to the popular imagination at this
time because of her extreme youth, her position as a bride, and the circumstance that she was
the first of the Queen's children thus to quit the home-roof. But, indeed, we cannot read the
published passages in the Queen's journal that refer to the marriage without a lively realisation
of the touch of nature which makes the whole world kin, without a sense that good true hearts
beat alike everywhere, and that strong family affection--an elixir of life--is the same in
the palace as in the cottage.

In fine frosty weather, on Saturday, the 23rd, the Prince Consort, after a walk in Buckingham
Palace Gardens with the Queen and the child so soon to be parted from them, started to bring
the bridegroom, who had landed in England that morning. He arrived in the middle of the day,
and was received in the presence of the Court. The Queen found him looking pale and nervous,
but no doubt alive to her warm greeting, at the bottom of the grand staircase. At the top a
still sweeter reward awaited him, for the Princess Royal, with her fifteen years' old sister,
Princess Alice, to keep her company, stood there.

On the 24th, all the gifts to the young couple, which the Queen calls "splendid," were shown
in the large drawing-room--the Queen's, the Prince Consort's, the Duchess of Kent's, &c., on
one table; the Prussian and other foreign gifts on another. Of the bride-groom's gift--a single
string of large pearls, said to have been worth five thousand pounds, her Majesty remarks that
they were the largest she ever saw. The Queen gave a necklace of diamonds, the Prince Consort
a set of diamonds and emeralds, the Prince of Wales a set of diamonds and opals, the King and
Queen of Prussia a diamond tiara, the Prince of Prussia a diamond and turquoise necklace, King
Leopold a Brussels lace dress, valued at a thousand pounds. On a third table were the candelabra
which the Queen and the Prince gave to their son-in-law. The near relations of the bride and
bridegroom brought the young couple into the room, and witnessed their pleasure at the magnificent
sight. Before the Sunday service the Princess Royal gave the Queen a brooch with the Princess's
hair, clasping her mother in her arms as she did so, and telling her--precious words for such
a mother to hear, nobly fulfilled in the days to come--that she hoped to be worthy to be her child.

Wilberforce, Bishop of Oxford, preached an eloquent sermon.

"Very busy, interrupted and disturbed every instant," the record runs on. Many can enter into
the feelings which prompted the Queen and the Prince, after the duties of hospitality were
discharged, to accompany their child to her room for the last time, and to kiss and bless her
while she clung to them. It is necessary to remember that every rank has its privations. Not
the least penalty of such a station as that which the Princess Royal was to occupy arose from
the fact that its many and weighty obligations precluded the hope of her returning frequently
or for any length of time to the home where she had been so happy, which she was so grieved
to quit, though social customs have improved in this respect, and royal marriages no longer
mean, as a matter of course, banishment for life from the bride's native country.

On the wedding morning, the Queen declared very naturally that she felt as if she were being
married over again herself, "only much more nervous," since now it was for another, and a dearer
than herself, that her heart was throbbing. Besides, she said, she had not "that blessed feeling,
elevating and supporting, of giving herself up for life to him whom she loved and worshipped--then
and ever." She was comforted by her daughter's coming to her while the Queen was dressing,
showing herself quiet and composed. The day was fine, with a winter sun shining brightly, as
all England, especially all London knew, for many a pleasure-seeker was abroad betimes to enjoy
the holiday. The marriage was to take place, like the Queen's marriage, in the little Chapel
Royal of St. James's. Before setting out, a final daguerreotype was taken of the family group,
father, mother, and daughter, "but I trembled so," the Queen writes, "my likeness has come
out indistinct."

In the drive from Buckingham Palace to St James's, the Princess Royal in her wedding dress
was in the carriage with her Majesty, sitting opposite to her, when "the flourish of trumpets
and the cheering of thousands" made the Queen's motherly heart sink. In the bride's dressing-room,
fitted up for the day, to which the Queen took the Princess, were the Prince Consort and King
Leopold, both in field- marshals' uniform, and carrying batons, and the eight bridesmaids,
"looking charming in white tulle, with wreaths and bouquets of pink roses and white heather."

Her Majesty left the bride and repaired to the royal closet, where she found the Duchess of
Kent and the Duchess of Cambridge with her son and daughter. Old and new relations were claiming
the Queen at the same time. Her thoughts were perpetually straying back to that former wedding-day.
She spared attention from her daughter to bestow it on her mother, "looking so handsome in
violet velvet, trimmed with ermine and white silk and violets." And as the processions were
formed, her Majesty exclaimed, perhaps with a vague pang, referring to the good old Duchess
still with her, and still able to play her part in the joyful ceremony, "How small the old
royal family has become!" Indeed, there were but two representatives--the Duchesses of Kent
and Cambridge. The Princess Mary of Cambridge, the farthest removed from the throne, walked
first of the English royal family, her train borne by Lady Arabella Sackville West; then the
Duke of Cambridge; the Duchess of Cambridge followed, her train borne by Lady Geraldine Somerset.
The Duchess of Kent, with her train borne the Lady Anna Maria Dawson, walked next to the present
royal family. They were preceded by Lord Palmerston, bearing the sword of state. The Prince
of Wales, and Prince Alfred, fresh from his naval studies, lads of sixteen and fourteen, in
Highland costumes, were immediately before the Queen, who walked between Prince Arthur and
Prince Leopold, children of eight and five years of age. Her Majesty's train was of lilac velvet,
petticoat of lilac and silver moire--antique, with a flounce of Honiton lace; corsage ornamented
with diamonds, the Koh-i- noor as a brooch; head-dress, a magnificent diadem of diamonds and
pearls. The three younger princesses--Alice, Helena, and Louise, girls of fifteen, twelve,
and ten--went hand-in-hand behind their mother. They wore white lace over pink satin, with
daisies and blue cornflowers in their hair.

Most of the foreign princes were already in the chapel, which was full of noble company, about
three hundred peers and peeresses being accommodated there. White and blue prevailed in the
colours of the ladies dresses, blue in compliment to Prussia. At the altar, set out with gold
plate of Queen Anne's reign, were the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Bishops of London, Oxford,
and Chester, and the Dean of Windsor. As the Queen entered, she and the Princess of Prussia
exchanged profound obeisances. Near her Majesty were her young princes and princesses; behind
her the Duchess of Kent; opposite her the Princess of Prussia, with the foreign princes behind her.

The drums and trumpets and the organ played as the bridegroom's and the bride's processions
approached, and the Queen describes the thrilling effect of the music drawing nearer and nearer.
The bridegroom entered between his supporters, his father and brother-in- law, the Prince of
Prussia and Prince William of Baden. Prince Frederick William, soldierly and stately, wore
the blue uniform of a Prussian general, with the insignia of the Black Eagle, and carried in
his hand his polished silver helmet. He looked pale and agitated, but was quite master of himself.
He bowed low to the Queen and to his mother, then knelt with a devotion which attracted attention.
The bride walked as at her confirmation, between her father and godfather-- her grand-uncle
King Leopold. Her blooming colour was gone, and she was pale almost as her white dress of moire
and Honiton lace, with wreaths of orange and myrtle blossoms. Her train was borne by eight
bridesmaids--daughters of dukes, marquises, and earls--Lady Susan Clinton, Lady Emma Stanley,
Lady Susan Murray, Lady Victoria Noel, Lady Cecilia Gordon Lennox, Lady Katherine Hamilton,
Lady Constance Villiers, and Lady Cecilia Molyneux.

One can well conceive that the young princess looked "very touching and lovely, with such an
innocent, confiding, and serious expression, her veil hanging back over her shoulders."

As the Princess advanced to the altar, she paused and made a deep obeisance to her mother,
colouring high as she did so, and the same to the Princess of Prussia. The bridegroom when
he took the bride's hand bent one knee.

Once more as the Prince Consort gave her daughter away, her Majesty had a bright vision of
her own happy marriage on that very spot; again she was comforted by her daughter's self-control,
and she could realise that it was beautiful to see the couple kneeling there with hands joined,
the bridesmaids "like a cloud of maidens hovering near her (the bride) as they knelt."

When the ring was placed on the Princess's finger cannon were fired, and a telegram was sent
off to Berlin that the same compliment might be paid to the pair there. The close of the "Hallelujah
Chorus" was sung at the end of the ceremony.

The usual congratulations followed. The bride flung herself into her mother's arms and was
embraced by her again and again, then by her bridegroom and her father. Prince Frederick William
kissed first the hand and then the cheek of his father and mother, saluted the Prince Consort
and King Leopold foreign fashion, and was embraced by the Queen. Princess Frederick William
would have kissed her father-in- law's hand, but was prevented by his kissing her cheek. The
bride and bridegroom left the chapel hand-in-hand to the sound of Mendelssohn's "Wedding March."
The register was signed in the Throne-room first by the young couple, then by their parents,
and afterwards by all the princes and princesses--including the Maharajah Duleep Singh "resplendent
in pearls."

The newly wedded pair drove to Buckingham Palace, to which the Queen and the Prince Consort
followed, with the Prince and Princess of Prussia, through an immense multitude, amidst ringing
cheers. The whole party showed themselves on the balcony before the window over the grand archway,
where the Queen had appeared on so many memorable occasions. First her Majesty with her children
came out, then the Queen led forward the bride, who stood hand-in-hand with her bridegroom;
afterwards the rest of the circle joined them. It was a matter of lively satisfaction to her
Majesty and the Prince Consort to witness the loyal, affectionate interest which the people
took in their daughter, and the Queen and the Prince were ready to gratify the multitude by
what is dear to every wedding crowd, "a sight of the bride and bridegroom."

The wedding cake was six feet high. The departure of the couple for Windsor, where they were
to spend their honeymoon, was no more than a foreshadowing of that worse departure a week later.
The Queen and the Princess of Prussia accompanied their children to the grand entrance; the
Prince Consort escorted his daughter to her carriage. The bride wore a while epingle dress
and mantle trimmed with grebe, a white bonnet with orange blossoms, and a Brussel's lace veil.

At the family dinner after the excitement and fatigue of the day were over, the Queen felt
"lost" without her eldest daughter. In the evening a messenger arrived from Windsor, bringing
a letter from the bride telling how the Eton boys had dragged the carriage from the station
to the castle, though she might not know that they, had flung up their hats in the air, many
of them beyond recovery, the wearers returning bareheaded to their college. When the Queen
and the Prince read this letter all London was illuminated, and its streets filled with huzzaing
spectators. At the palace the evening closed quietly with a State concert of classic music.

The Princess Royal's honeymoon so far as a period of privacy was concerned, did not last longer
than the Queen's. Two days after the marriage the Court followed the young couple to Windsor,
where a chapter of the Order of the Garter was held, and Prince Frederick William was created
a knight, a banquet being held in the Waterloo Gallery. On the 29th of January, the Court-including
the newly married pair-returned to Buckingham Palace, and in the evening the fourth state visit
was paid to Her Majesty's Theatre, when The Rivals and The Spitalfields Weaver were given.
The bride was in blue and white, the Prussian colours, and wore a wreath of sweet peas on her hair.

On the 30th of January, the addresses from the City of London and other cities and towns of
the Empire, many of them accompanied by wedding gifts, were received, and there was a great
and of course specially brilliant Drawing-room, which lasted for four hours. On Sunday the
thought of the coming separation pressed heavily on those loving hearts, "but God will carry
us through, as He did on the 25th," wrote the Queen reverently, "and we have the comfort of
seeing the dear young people so perfectly happy."

On Monday, the Queen in noting that it was the last day of their dear child's being with them,
admitted she was sick at heart, and the poor young bride confided to her mother, "I think it
will kill me to take leave of dear papa."

Tuesday, the 2nd of February, was dark and cold, with snow beginning to fall, unpropitious
weather for a long journey, unless in the Scotch saying which declares that a bride is happy
who goes "a white gate" (road:) All were assembled in the hall, not a dry eye among them, the
Queen believed. "I clasped her in my arms, and blessed her, and knew not what to say." The
royal mother shared all good mother's burdens. One more embrace of her daughter at the door
of the open carriage, into which the Prince Consort and the Prince of Wales went along with
the Prince and Princess Frederick William, the band struck up, and they were gone.

The embarkation was at Gravesend. The Londoners assembled in crowds to see the last of their
Princess on her route to the coast by the Strand, Cheap, and London Bridge. Many persons recall
to this day the sorrowful scene in the cheerless snowy weather. This was the reverse side of
all the splendid wedding festivities-the bride of seventeen quitting family, home, and native
country, sitting grave and sad beside her equally pale, and silent father--the couple so tenderly
attached, on the eve of the final parting. At Gravesend, where young girls, in spite of the
snow, strewed flowers before the bride's steps, the Prince waited to see the ship sail--not
without risk in the snowstorm--for Antwerp. But no daughter appeared for a last look; the passionate
sorrow of youth hid itself from view.

Away at Buckingham Palace the Queen could not bear to look at the familiar objects--all linked
with one vanished presence. The very baby princess, so great a darling in the household, only
brought the thought of how fond her elder sister had been of her; how but yesterday the two
had played together.

The Princess wrote home from the steamer, and every telegram and letter, together with the
personal testimony of Lady Churchill and Lord Sydney, who had accompanied the travellers to
Berlin, conveyed the most gratifying and consoling intelligence of the warm welcome the stranger
had met with, and how well she bore herself in difficult circumstances. "Quiet and dignified,
but with a kind word to say of everybody; on the night of her public entry into Berlin and
reception at Court, when she polonaised with twenty-two princes in succession." [Footnote:
Lady Bloomfield.] The Princess Frederick William continued to write "almost daily, sometimes
twice a day," to her mother, and regularly once a week to her father. And another fair young
daughter was almost ready to take the Princess Royal's place at the Queen's side. From the
date of her sister's marriage, the Prince Consort's letters and the Queen's journal tell that
the Princess Alice, with her fine good sense and unselfishness, almost precocious at her age,
was a great help and comfort in the royal circle.

CHAPTER XXXI.

In February, Lord Palmerston's ministry resigned after a defeat on the Conspiracy Bill, and
Lord Derby, at the Queen's request, formed a short-lived Cabinet. The Prince of Wales was confirmed
on Maundy Thursday in the chapel at Windsor.

In April, the young Queen of Portugal, Princess Stephanie of Hohenzollern, visited England
with her father on her way to her husband--to whom she had been married by proxy--and her future
home. Her charm and sweetness greatly attracted the Queen and the Prince. In May, only seven
months after the death of Victoire, Duchesse de Nemours, the sympathies of her Majesty and
the Prince Consort were awakened afresh for the Orleans family. Helene, Duchesse d'Orleans,
died suddenly from the effects of influenza at Cranbourne House, Richmond. How many of the
large family party with which the Queen had been so delighted when she visited Chateau d'Eu
had already passed away--the old King, Queen Louise, the Duchesse de Nemours, and now the Duchesse
d'Orleans! Her two young sons--the elder the Comte de Paris, not yet twenty--were specially
adopted by Queen Amelie.

In the end of May the Prince started for a short visit to Germany, with the double intention
of getting a glimpse of his daughter, and revisiting his country for the first time after thirteen
years absence. He accomplished both purposes, and heard "the watchman's horn" once more before
he retired to rest in the old home. He sent many a loving letter, and tender remembrance to
England in anticipation of his speedy return. On his arrival in London he was met by the Queen
at the Bricklayers' Arms station.

In the course of a very hot June, the Queen and the Prince went to Warwickshire, which she
had known as a young girl, in order to pay a special visit to Birmingham. They were the guests
for two nights of Lord and Lady Leigh, at Stoneleigh. Her Majesty had the privilege of seeing
Birmingham without a particle of smoke, while a mighty multitude of orderly craftsmen, with
their wives and children, stood many hours patiently under the blazing sun, admiring their
banners and flags, and cheering lustily for their Queen. One of the objects of the visit was
that her Majesty might open a people's museum and park at Aston for the dwellers in the Black
country. The royal party drove next day to one of the finest old feudal castles in England--Warwick
Castle, with its noble screen of woods, mirroring itself in the Avon-- and were entertained
at luncheon by Lord and Lady Warwick. In the evening, in the middle of a violent thunderstorm,
the Queen and the Prince returned to Buckingham Palace.

This season as usual, there was a visit from the King of the Belgians and several of his family.

The first Atlantic cable was laid, and lasted just long enough for the exchange of messages
of proud congratulation on the wonderful annihilation of distance between Europe and America,
so far as the thoughts of men were concerned.

After a month's stay at Osborne, during one of the warmest Julys ever known in this country,
when the condition of the river Thames threatened to drive the Parliament from Westminster,
the Queen and the Prince Consort, with the Prince of Wales and their suites, paid a state visit
to Cherbourg. The great fort was nearly completed, and the harbour was full of French war-vessels
as her Majesty steamed in, on the evening of the 4th of August, receiving such a salute from
the ships and the fortress itself as seemed to shake earth and sky. The Emperor and Empress,
who arrived the same day, came on board at eight o'clock, and were cordially received by the
Queen and the Prince, though the relations between France and England were not quite so assured
as when their soldiers were brothers-in-arms in the Crimea. After the visitors left, the Queen's
journal records that she went below and read, and nearly finished "that most interesting book
'Jane Eyre.'"

When the Queen and the Prince landed next day, which was fine, they were received by the Emperor
and Empress, entered with them one of the imperial carriages, and drove through the town to
the Prefecture, where the party breakfasted or rather lunched. In the afternoon the fort with
its gigantic ramparts and magnificent views was visited. There was a State dinner in the evening,
in the French ship Bretagne. The Emperor received the Queen at the foot of the ladder. The
dinner was under canvas on deck amidst decorations of flowers and flags. The Queen sat between
the Emperor and the Duke of Cambridge; the Empress sat between the Prince Consort and the Prince
of Wales. The speechmaking, to which one may say all Europe was listening, was a trying experience.
The Emperor, though he changed colour, spoke well "in a powerful voice," proposing the health
of the Queen, the Prince, and the royal family, and declaring his adherence to the French alliance
with England. The Prince replied. "He did it very well, though he hesitated once," the Queen
reported. "I sat shaking, with my eyes riveted to the table." The duty done, a great relief
was felt, as the speechmakers, with the Queen and the Empress, retired to the privacy of the
cabin, shook hands, and compared notes on their nervousness.

A splendid display of fireworks was witnessed from the deck of the Bretagne. In the middle
of it the Queen and the Prince returned to the yacht, escorted by the Emperor and Empress,
when they took their departure in turn. They were followed by showers of English rockets and
rounds of English cheers.

The next morning the Emperor and Empress paid a farewell visit on board the yacht, which sailed
at last under "heavy salutes." At five o'clock in the afternoon the beach at Osborne was reached.
The sailor Prince, whose fourteenth birthday it was, stood on the pier. All the children, including
the baby, were at the door. The dogs added their welcome. The young Prince's birthday-table
was inspected. There was still time to visit the Swiss Cottage, to which Princess Alice and
the Queen drove the other members of the family. The children's castle, where they had lunched
in honour of the day, was gay with flags. Prince Alfred with Princess Alice was promoted to
join the royal dinner party. The little princes, Arthur and Leopold, appeared at dessert. "A
band played," writes the Queen, "and after dinner we danced, with the three boys and the three
girls and the company, a merry country-dance on the terrace--a delightful finale to the expedition!
It seemed a dream that this morning at twelve we should have been still at Cherbourg, with
the Emperor and Empress on board our yacht."

On the 11th of August, the Queen and the Prince arrived in the yacht at Antwerp, on their way
to Germany, to pay their first eagerly anticipated visit to the Princess Royal--then a wife
of six months standing--in her Prussian home.

The travellers proceeded by railway to Malines, where they were met by King Leopold with his
second son, and escorted to Verviers in a progress which was to be as far as possible without
soldiers, salutes, addresses; and at Aix-la-Chapelle the Prince of Prussia joined the party.
The halt for the night was at Dusseldorf, where the Prince and Princess of Hohenzollern were
waiting. The Queen and the Prince Consort quitted their hotel to dine with the Hohenzollern
family, in whose members they were much interested. The Queen made the acquaintance of a young
son who is now Prince of Roumania, and a handsome girl-princess who has become the wife of
the Comte de Flanders, King Leopold's younger son.

The next day, long looked forward to as that which was to bring about a reunion with the Princess
Royal, was suddenly overclouded by the news of the sad, unexpected death of the Prince's worthy
valet, "Cart," who had come with him to England, and been in his service twenty-nine years--since
his master was a child of eight The Prince entered the room as the Queen was dressing, carrying
a telegram, and saying "My poor Cart is dead." Both felt the loss of the old friend acutely.
"All day long," wrote the Queen, "the tears would rush into my eyes." She added, "He was the
only link my loved one had about him which connected him with his childhood, the only one with
whom he could talk over old times. I cannot think of my dear husband without Cart." It was
no day for sorrow, yet the noble, gentle hearts bled through all their joys.

Before seven the royal party, including the Prince of Prussia, were on their way through Rhenish
Prussia. As the train rushed by the railway platform at Buckeburg there stood the aged Baroness
Lehzen, the Queen's good old governess, waving her handkerchief. In the station at Hanover
were the King and Queen of Hanover, Princess Frederick Charles of Prussia, and her Majesty's
niece, the Princess Feodore of Hohenlohe, a charming girl of nineteen, with her betrothed husband,
the Duke of Saxe-Meiningen, a widower of thirty-two.

