In the mean time, to accomplish the feats he performs, the most accurate perception of sensible
objects is required. Of what nature is that of which he so marvellously evinces the possession?
You may adopt the simple hypothesis,--that the mind, being disengaged from its ordinary relations
to the senses, does without them, and perceives things directly. Or you may suppose, if you
prefer it, that the mind still employs sensation, using only impressions that in ordinary waking
are not consciously attended to, for its more wonderful feats; and otherwise common sensation,
which, however generally suspended, may be awakened by the dreaming attention to its objects.

The following case of somnambulism, in which the seizure supervened, in a girl affected with
St Vitus's dance, and combined itself with that disorder, is given by Lord Monboddo:--

The patient, about sixteen years of age, used to be commonly taken in the morning a few hours
after rising. The approach of the seizure was announced by a sense of weight in the head, a
drowsiness which quickly terminated in sleep, in which her eyes were fast shut. She described
a feeling beginning in the feet, creeping like a gradual chill higher and higher, till it reached
the heart, when consciousness or recollection left her. Being in this state, she sprang from
her seat about the room, over tables and chairs, with the astonishing agility belonging to
St Vitus's dance. Then, if she succeeded in getting out of the house, she ran at a pace with
which her elder brother could hardly keep up, to a particular spot in the neighbourhood, taking
the directest but the roughest path. If she could not manage otherwise, she got over the garden-wall
with surprising rapidity and precision of movement. Her eyes were all the time fast closed.
The impulse to visit this spot she was often conscious of during the approach of the paroxysm,
and, afterwards, she sometimes thought she had dreamed of going thither. Towards the termination
of her indisposition, she dreamed that the water of a neighbouring spring would do her good,
and she drank much of it. One time they tried to cheat her by giving her water from another
spring, but she immediately detected the difference. Towards the end, she foretold that she
would have three paroxysms more, and then be well--and so it proved.

The following case is from a communication by M. Pigatti, published in the July Number of the
Journal Encyclopédique of the year 1762. The subject was a servant of the name of Negretti,
in the household of the Marquis Sale.

In the evening, Negretti would seat himself in a chair in the anteroom, when he commonly fell
asleep, and would sleep quietly for a quarter of an hour. He then righted himself in his chair,
so as to sit up. [This was the moment of transition from ordinary sleep into trance.] Then
he sat some time without motion, as if he saw something. Then he rose and walked about the
room. On one occasion, he drew out his snuff-box and would have taken a pinch, but there was
little in it; whereupon he walked up to an empty chair, and addressing by name a cavalier whom
he supposed to be sitting in it, asked him for a pinch. One of those who were watching the
scene, here held towards him an open box, from which he took snuff. Afterwards he fell into
the posture of a person who listens; he seemed to think that he heard an order, and thereupon
hastened with a wax-candle in his hand, to a spot where a light usually stood. As soon as he
imagined that he had lit the candle, he walked with it in the proper manner, through the salle,
down the steps, turning and waiting from time to time, as if he had been lighting some one
down. Arrived at the door, he placed himself sideways, so as to let the imaginary persons pass,
and he bowed as he let them out. He then extinguished the light, returned up the stairs, and
sat himself down again in his place, to play the same farce over again once or twice the same
evening. When in this condition, he would lay the tablecloth, place the chairs, which he sometimes
brought from a distant room, and opening and shutting the doors as he went, with exactness;
would take decanters from the beauffet, fill them with water at the spring, put them on a waiter,
and so on. All the objects that were concerned in these operations, he distinguished where
they were before him with the same precision and certainty as if he had been in the full use
of his senses. Otherwise he seemed to observe nothing--so, on one occasion, in passing a table,
he upset a waiter with two decanters upon it, which fell and broke, without exciting his attention.
The dominant idea had entire possession of him. He would prepare a salad with correctness,
and sit down and eat it. Then, if they changed it, the trick passed without his notice. In
this manner he would go on eating cabbage, or even pieces of cake, seemingly without observing
the difference. The taste he enjoyed was imaginary; the sense was shut. On another occasion,
when he asked for wine, they gave him water, which he drank for wine, and remarked that his
stomach felt the better for it. On a fellow-servant touching his legs with a stick, the idea
arose in his mind that it was a dog, and he scolded to drive it away; but the servant continuing
his game, Negretti took a whip to beat the dog. The servant drew off when Negretti began whistling
and coaxing to get the dog near him; so they threw a muff against his legs, which he belaboured
soundly.

M. Pigatti watched these proceedings with great attention, and convinced himself by many trials
that Negretti did not use his senses. The suspension of taste was shown by his not distinguishing
between salad and cake. He did not hear the loudest sound, when it lay out of the circle of
his dreaming ideas. If a light was held close to his eyes, near enough to singe his eyebrows,
he did not appear to be aware of it. He seemed to feel nothing when they inserted a feather
into his nostrils. The ordinary sensibility of his organs seemed withdrawn.

Altogether, the most interesting case of somnambulism on record, is that of a young ecclesiastic,
the narrative of which, from the immediate communication of an Archbishop of Bordeaux, is given
under the head of somnambulism in the French Encyclopædia.

This young ecclesiastic, when the archbishop was at the same seminary, used to rise every night,
and write out either sermons or pieces of music. To study his condition, the archbishop betook
himself several nights consecutively to the chamber of the young man, where he made the following
observations.

The young man used to rise, to take paper, and to write. Before he wrote music, he would take
a stick and rule the lines with it. He wrote the notes, together with the words corresponding
with them, with perfect correctness. Or, when he had written the words too wide, he altered
them. The notes that were to be black, he filled in after he had written the whole. After completing
a sermon, he read it aloud from beginning to end. If any passage displeased him, he erased
it, and wrote the amended passage correctly over the other; on one occasion he had to substitute
the word "adorable" for "divin;" but he did not omit to alter the preceding "ce" into "cet,"
by adding the letter "t" with exact precision to the word first written. To ascertain whether
he used his eyes, the archbishop interposed a sheet of pasteboard between the writing and his
face. He took not the least notice, but went on writing as before. The limitation of his perceptions
to what he was thinking about was very curious. A bit of aniseed cake, that he had sought for,
he eat approvingly; but when, on another occasion, a piece of the same cake was put in his
month, he spit it out without observation. The following instance of the dependance of his
perceptions upon, or rather their subordination to, his preconceived ideas is truly wonderful.
It is to be observed that he always knew when his pen had ink in it. Likewise, if they adroitly
changed his papers, when he was writing, he knew it, if the sheet substituted was of a different
size from the former, and he appeared embarrassed in that case. But if the fresh sheet of paper,
which was substituted for that written on, was exactly of the same size with the former, he
appeared not to be aware of the change. And he would continue to read off his composition from
the blank sheet of paper, as fluently as when the manuscript itself lay before him; nay, more,
he would continue his corrections, and introduce the amended passage, writing it upon exactly
the place on the blank sheet which it would have occupied on the written page.

The form of trance which has been thus exemplified may be therefore well called half-waking,
inasmuch as the performer, whatever his powers of perception may be in respect to the object
he is thinking of, is nevertheless lost in dream, and blind and deaf to every thing without
its scope.

The following case may serve as a suitable transition to instances of full-waking in trance.
The subject of it alternated evidently between that state and half-waking. Or she, could be
at once roused from the latter into the former by the conversation of her friends. The case
is recorded in the Acta Vratisl. ann. 1722, Feb. class iv., art. 2.

A girl seventeen years of age was used to fall into a kind of sleep in the afternoon, in which
it was supposed, from her expression of countenance and her gestures, that she was engaged
in dreams which interested her. After some days, she began to speak when in this state. Then,
if those present addressed remarks to her, she replied very sensibly; but then fell back into
her dream-discourse, which turned principally upon religious and moral topics, and was directed
to warn her friends how a female should live, Christianly, well-governed, and so as to incur
no reproach. When she sang, which often happened, she heard herself accompanied by an imaginary
violin or piano, and would take up and continue the accompaniment upon an instrument herself.
She sewed, did knitting, and the like. But on the other hand, she imagined on one occasion
that she wrote a letter upon a napkin, which she folded with the intention of sending it to
the post. Upon waking, she had not the least recollection of her dreams, or of what she had
been doing. After a few months she recovered.

I come now to the exemplification of full-waking in trance, as it is very perfectly manifested
in the cases which have been termed double consciousness. These are in their principle very
simple; but it is not easy in a few words to convey a distinct idea of the condition of the
patient. The case consists of a series of fits of trance, in which the step from ordinary waking
to full trance-waking is sudden and immediate, or nearly so, and either was so originally,
or through use has become so. Generally for some hours on each day, occasionally for days together,
the patient continues in the state of trance; then suddenly reverts to that of ordinary waking.
In the perfectest instances of double consciousness, there is nothing in the bearing or behaviour
of the entranced person which would lead a stranger to suppose her (for it is an affection
far commoner in young women than in boys or men) to be other than ordinarily awaked. But her
friends observe that she does every thing with more spirit and better--sings better, plays
better, has more readiness, moves even more gracefully, than in her natural state. She has
an innocent boldness and disregard of little conventionalisms, which imparts a peculiar charm
to her behaviour. In the mean time, she has two complete existences separate and apart, which
alternate but never mingle. On the day of her first fit, her life split into a double series
of thoughts and recollections. She remembers in her ordinary state nothing of her trance existence.
In her trances, she remembers nothing of the intervening hours of ordinary waking. Her recollections
of what she had experienced or learned before the fits began is singularly capricious, differing
extraordinarily in its extent in different cases. In general, the positive recollection of
prior events is annulled; but her prior affections and habits either remain, and her general
acquirements, or they are quickly by association rekindled or brought into the circle of her
trance ideas. Generally she names all her friends anew; often her tone of voice is a little
altered; sometimes she introduces with particular combinations of letters some odd inflection,
which she maintains rigorously and cannot unlearn.

Keeping before him this conception, the reader will comprehend the following sketch of a case
of double consciousness, communicated by Dr George Barlow. To one reading them without preparation,
the details, which are very graphic and instructive, would appear mere confusion:--

"This young lady has two states of existence. During the time that the fit is on her, which
varies from a few hours to three days, she is occasionally merry and in spirits; occasionally
she appears in pain and rolls about in uneasiness; but in general she seems so much herself,
that a stranger entering the room would not remark any thing extraordinary; she amuses herself
with reading or working, sometimes plays on the piano and better than at other times, knows
every body, and converses rationally, and makes very accurate observations on what she has
seen and read. The fit leaves her suddenly, and she then forgets every thing that has passed
during it, and imagines that she has been asleep, and sometimes that she has dreamed of any
circumstance that has made a vivid impression upon her. During one of these fits she was reading
Miss Edgeworth's tales, and had in the morning been reading a part of one of them to her mother,
when she went for a few minutes to the window, and suddenly exclaimed, 'Mamma, I am quite well,
my headach is gone.' Returning to the table, she took up the open volume, which she had been
reading five minutes before, and said, 'What book is this?' she turned over the leaves, looked
at the frontispiece, and replaced it on the table. Seven or eight hours afterwards, when the
fit returned, she asked for the book, went on at the very paragraph where she had left off,
and remembered every circumstance of the narrative. And so it always is; as she reads one set
of books during one state, and another during the other. She seems to be conscious of her state;
for she said one day, 'Mamma, this is a novel, but I may safely read it; it will not hurt my
morals, for, when I am well, I shall not remember a word of it.'"

This state of double consciousness forms the basis of the psychical phenomena observed in the
extraordinary cases which have been occasionally described under the general name of catalepsy.
The accounts of the most interesting of these that I have met with, were given by M. Petatin
in 1787; M. Delpet, 1807; Dr Despine, 1829. The wonderful powers of perception evinced by the
patients when in this state of trance-waking would exceed belief, but for the respectable names
of the observers, and the internal evidence of good faith and accuracy in the narratives themselves.
The patients did not see with their eyes nor hear with their ears. But they heard at the pit
of the stomach, and perceived the approach of persons when at some distance from their residence,
and read the thoughts of those around.

I am, my dear Archy, no wonder-monger; so I am not tempted to make a parade to you of these
extraordinary phenomena. Nor in truth do they interest me further than as they concur with
the numerous other facts I have brought forward to show, and positively prove, that under certain
conditions the mind enters into new relations, spiritual and material. I will, however, in
conclusion, give you the outline of a case of the sort which occurred a few years ago in England,
and the details of which were communicated to me by the late Mr Bulteel. He had himself repeatedly
seen the patient, and had scrupulously verified what I now narrate to you:--

The patient was towards twenty years of age. Her condition was the state of double consciousness,
thus aggravated, that when she was not in the trance, she suffered from spasmodic contraction
of the limbs. In her alternate state of trance-waking, she was composed and apparently well;
but the expression of her countenance was slightly altered, and there was some peculiarity
in her mode of speaking. She would mispronounce certain letters, or introduce consonants into
words upon a regular system; and to each of her friends she had given a new name, which she
only employed in her trance. As usual, she knew nothing in either state of what passed in the
other. Then in her trance she exhibited three marvellous powers: she could read by the touch
alone: if she pressed her hand against the whole surface of a written or printed page, she
acquired a perfect knowledge of its contents, not of the substance only, but of the words,
and would criticise the type or the handwriting. A line of a folded note pressed against the
back of her neck, she read equally well: she called this sense-feeling. Contact was necessary
for it. Her sense of smell was at the same time singularly acute; when out riding one day,
she said, "There is a violet," and cantered her horse fifty yards to where it grew. Persons
whom she knew she could tell were approaching the house, when yet at some distance. When persons
were playing chess at a table behind her, and intentionally made impossible moves, she would
smile, and ask them why they did it.

Cases of this description are no doubt of rare occurrence. Yet not a year passes in London
without something transpiring of the existence of one or more of them in the huge metropolis.
Medical men view them with unpardonable indifference. Thus one doctor told me of a lady, whom
he had been attending with other physicians, who, it appeared, always announced that they were
coming some minutes before they drove to her door. It was very odd, he thought, and there was
an end of it.

"M. l'Abbé," said Voltaire to a visitor, who gave him a commonplace account of some remarkable
scenes, "do you know in what respect you differ from Don Quixote?"--"No," said the Abbé, not
half liking the look of the question. "Why, M. l'Abbé, Don Quixote took the inns on the road
for castles, but you have taken castles for inns."

    Adieu, dear Archy.--Yours, &c.
                        MAC DAVUS.

FOUR SONNETS BY ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING.

I. LIFE.

    Each creature holds an insular point in space;
    Yet, what man stirs a finger, breathes a sound,
    But all the multitudinous beings round
    In all the countless worlds, with time and place
    For their conditions, down to the central base,
    Thrill, haply, in vibration and rebound;
    Life answering life across the vast profound,
    In full antiphony, by a common grace?--
    I think this sudden joyaunce, which illumes
    A child's mouth sleeping, unaware may run
    From some soul breaking new the bond of tombs:
    I think this passionate sigh, which, half begun,
    I stifle back, may reach and stir the plumes
    Of God's calm angel standing in the sun.

II. LOVE.

    We cannot live, except thus mutually
    We alternate, aware or unaware,
    The reflex act of life: and when we bear
    Our virtue outward most impulsively,
    Most full of invocation, and to be
    Most instantly compellant, certes, there,
    We live most life, whoever breathes most air
    And counts his dying years by sun and sea!

III. HEAVEN AND EARTH. 1845.

"And there was silence in heaven for the space of half an hour."--Revelation.

    God, who with thunders and great voices kept
    Beneath thy throne, and stars most silver-paced
    Along the inferior gyres, and open-faced
    Melodious angels round, canst intercept
    Music with music, yet, at will, hast swept
    All back--all back--(said he in Patmos placed)
    To fill the heavens with silence of the waste,
    Which lasted half an hour! Lo! I, who have wept
    All day and night, beseech Thee by my tears,
    And by that dread response of curse and groan
    Men alternate across these hemispheres,
    Vouchsafe as such a half-hour's hush alone,
    In compensation of our noisy years!
    As heaven has paused from song, let earth, from moan.

IV. THE PROSPECT. 1845.

    Methinks we do as fretful children do,
    Leaning their faces on the window-pane
    To sigh the glass dim with their own breath's stain,
    And shut the sky and landscape from their view.
    And thus, alas! since God the maker drew
    A mystic separation twixt those twain,
    The life beyond us and our souls in pain,
    We lose the prospect which we are called unto,
    By grief we are fools to use. Be still and strong,
    O man, my brother! hold thy sobbing breath,
    And keep thy soul's large window pure from wrong,
    That so, as life's appointment issueth,
    Thy vision may be clear to watch along
    The sunset consummation-lights of death.

ROSAURA: A TALE OF MADRID.

Fourteen years have elapsed since there dwelt in Madrid a certain student, who went by the
name of El Rojo, or the Red. Not by his acquaintances and intimates alone was he thus designated,
but by all the various classes of idlers with whom the Spanish capital abounds; by the listless
loiterers at the coffee-house doors, by the lounging gossips of the Puerta del Sol, and by
the cloaked saunterers who, when the siesta is over, pace the Calle Alcala, puffing their beloved
Havanas, retailing the latest news, discussing the chances of a change of ministry, or the
most recent and interesting scandalous anecdote current in that gallant metropolis. It would
be wrong to infer, from his somewhat ambiguous appellation, that the student's skin had the
copper hue of a Pawnee or an Osage, or his hair the ruddy tint usually deemed detrimental and
unbecoming. The name implied no sneer--it was given and taken as a compliment; and Federico
was at least as proud of it as of the abundant golden curls to which he owed it, and that flowed
in waving luxuriance down his graceful neck and over his well-formed shoulders.

In southern climes, where the ardent sun embrowns the children of the soil, fair locks and
eyes of azure are prized in proportion to their rarity. No wonder, then, that Federico found
favour in the sight of the dark-browed and inflammable Madrileñas. Many were the tender glances
darted at him from beneath veil and mantilla, as he took his evening stroll upon the Prado;
oftentimes, when he passed along the street, white and slender fingers, protruded through half-closed
jalousies, dropped upon his handsome head a shower of fragrant jasmin blossoms. Amongst the
dames and damsels who thus signified their favour and partiality, not a few--so it is certified
by the veracious authority whence we derive this history--dwelt in stately mansions, and went
abroad in brave equipage, drawn by prancing steeds and comely mules, all glittering with trappings
of silk and gold. These, it may be thought, condescended overmuch thus to notice an humble
student. But the love-breathing daughters of Castile reck little of rank and station; and Federico,
by all personal endowments, well deserved the distinction he obtained. Poor hidalgo though
he was, no count or duke, or blue-blooded grandee, from Cadiz to Corunua, bore himself better,
or had more the mien of a well-born and thorough-bred caballero. None more gallantly wore the
broad-leafed sombrero, none more gracefully draped the ample cloak; and all Spain might have
been searched in vain to match the bright and joyous glance of the student's dark-blue eye.
Excepting on the coast, and in certain districts where Mahomedan forefathers have bequeathed
their oriental physiognomy and tall slender frame to their Christian descendants, Spaniards
are rarely of very lofty stature. Federico was from the flat and arid province of La Mancha,
where, as in compensation for the unproductiveness of the parched soil, handsome men and beauteous
women abound. Of the middle height, his figure was symmetrical, elastic, and muscular, formed
for feats of agility and strength; his step was light, but firm; his countenance manly,--the
expression of his regular and agreeable features denoted a passionate nature and lofty character.
Like most of his countrymen, he was quickly roused, but easy to appease. Generosity and forbearance
were prominent amongst his good qualities; and he had nobly displayed them in more than one
encounter with antagonists, whose feebleness placed them at his mercy, and rendered them unworthy
of his wrath. For in the use of arms, as in all manly exercises, Federico was an adept; and
whether with Toledo blade, or Majo's knife, there were few men in Spain who would not have
found in him a formidable and dangerous adversary.

Strange to tell of so young a man, and of a Spaniard, in one respect our student appeared passionless.
He met the advances of his female admirers with the utmost coldness--seemed, indeed, to avoid
the society of the fair sex, threw love-letters into the fire, unread and unanswered, neglected
invitations, went to no rendezvous. Favours which other men would gladly have purchased with
years of life, he disdainfully rejected. The wrinkled duennas, who under various pretexts brought
him tender messages and tempting assignations, met, instead of the golden guerdon with which
such Mercuries are usually rewarded, harsh rebuffs and cutting sarcasm at the hands of the
stoic of two-and-twenty. And with so much scorn did this Manchegan Joseph repel on one occasion
the amorous attentions of a lady of birth and station, that her indiscreet love was changed
into bitter hate, and Federico narrowly escaped a dagger-stab and a premature death. From that
day, he was more inaccessible than ever, not only to women, but to men. Gradually he withdrew
from intercourse with his former associates and was seldom seen in the streets or public places,
but sat at home, buried amongst books, and diligently studying, with the intention, he was
heard to declare, of going to Ciudad Real, and passing his examination as advocate in the royal
courts. And thus, little by little, it happened with Federico as it does with most persons
who neglect and forget the world, the world forgot him. His old intimates--joyous, light-hearted
lads, revelling in the enjoyments and dissipation of the capital--voted him a spoil-sport and
a pedant, and thought of him no more: friends, in the true sense of the word, he had none;
and so, after a very short time, the list of visitors to the gloomy old apartment in which
the eccentric youth mused and studied was reduced to one man, and that a very odd one, but
whom Federico loved, because he in some sort owed him his life.

This second hero of our tale was one of those strange characters to be met with in Spain only.
Don Geronimo Regato was a little wizened old creature, blind of an eye, and with a very ugly
face, whose life had been a series of extraordinary adventures and bustling incidents. He had
served his country in the most opposite capacities. In 1808, he fought the French in the streets
of Madrid; two years later, he headed a guerilla band in the wild passes of the Sierra Morena;
another two years, and he took the oath to the constitution of Cadiz, and was seen at Wellington's
head-quarters as colonel of the Spanish line, and delegate from the Cortes. In 1814, he changed
his colours, and was noted, after the return of Ferdinand VII., as a stanch royalist. But variety
was his motto; and the revolution of 1820 saw him in the ranks of the Liberals, to whom he
continued faithful until their cause was ruined and hopeless. That was the signal, with this
Talleyrand on a small scale, for another vuelta casaca: once more he turned his coat; and as
an earnest of penitence for past offences, opened to the Royalist troops the gates of a small
Estremaduran fortress. Notwithstanding this act of tardy allegiance, he was thrown into prison
at Madrid, and owed it entirely to the intercession and good offices of an old schoolfellow,
the influential Father Cyrillo, that his neck was not brought into unpleasant contact with
the iron hoop of the garrote. Either warned by this narrow escape, or because the comparatively
tranquil state of Spain afforded no scope for his restless activity, since 1823 this political
Proteus had lived in retirement, eschewing apparently all plots and intrigues; although he
was frequently seen in the very highest circles of the capital, where his great experience,
his conversational powers, and social qualities sufficiently accounted for the welcome he at
all times met.

Returning late one night from a tertulia at the house of Ferdinand's prime minister, Don Geronimo
heard the clash of steel and sound of a scuffle, and hurrying to the spot, saw a young man
defending himself against the attack of two bravos. Forthwith Regato set himself to shout out
words of command, as if he had a whole regiment at his back, and the ruffians, thinking the
patrol was upon them, instantly took to flight. Federico was the person assailed; and although
he boldly asserted and doubtlessly fully believed, that, left to himself, he would speedily
have defeated his cowardly opponents, he was still not altogether sorry to be relieved from
such odds by the old gentleman's timely arrival and ingenious stratagem. This was the origin
of his acquaintance with Regato. From that night forward they visited each other, and soon
Geronimo took particular pleasure in the society of the handsome youth, whose earnestness and
vigour of mind, he said, were refreshing to contemplate in a century when the actions of most
men made them resemble beasts and apes, rather than beings formed in the image of their Creator.
The young student, for his part, found much to interest him in his new friend, the only person
who now varied the monotony of his solitude. He listened eagerly to Regato's discourse, as
he alternately poured out his stores of knowledge and experience, and broke into a vein of
keen and bitter sarcasm on the men, parties, and circumstances of distracted and unhappy Spain.
Federico enthusiastically loved his country, and his proud eyes often filled with tears when
the old man placed its former greatness in striking contrast with its present degradation.
In spite of all the veerings and weathercock variations of his political life, Regato was at
heart a Liberal. He set forth in glowing colours the evils and tyranny of Ferdinand's government,
expatiated on the barbarous executions of Riego, Torrijos, and other martyrs to freedom's cause,
and exposed the corruption and villany of the men who retained their country in the bonds of
slavery and fanaticism; until Federico's cheeks glowed, and heart beat quick with patriotic
indignation, and he felt that he too, when the battle-hour should strike, would joyfully draw
his sword and lose his life for the liberation of the land he loved so well. At times the student
would take down his guitar, and sing, with closed doors and windows--for Ferdinand's spies
were, a quick-eared legion--the spirit-stirring Hymn of the Constitution, or the wild Tragala--that
Spanish Marseillaise, to whose exciting notes rivers of blood have flowed. And then old Regato
beat time with his hand, and his solitary eye gleamed like a ball of fire, whilst he mingled
his hoarse and suppressed bass with Federico's mellow tenor.

Notwithstanding their vast difference of age and character, and although the one was but commencing,
whilst the other had nearly run, the up-hill race of life, the more these two men saw of each
other the stronger grow their sympathy and friendship. Don Geronimo's visits to the student
became more and more frequent, and often, forgetful or careless of the time, they would sit
talking till far into the night. It seemed a relief to Regato to disburden his heart and mind
of their innermost secrets; and he rejoiced to have found a man to whose honour, truth, and
secresy, he felt he could safely entrust them. Federico repaid his confidence with one equally
unlimited. He not only told his friend the history of his short life from infancy upwards,
but he made him his father confessor, informed him of the progress of his studies, confided
to him his doubts and hopes, his religious creed and political aspirations, and even his connexion
with some of the secret orders and societies, of which, at that period, notwithstanding the
vigilance of the police, a multitude existed in Spain.

"And can it be, my young friend," said Geronimo one evening, when a brief pause succeeded to
some of the fiery Federico's vehement political diatribes--"can it be," he said, fixing his
penetrating eye upon the flushed and impassioned countenance of the student, "that you have
reached your present age and never loved woman?"

"Pshaw!" replied the student, "you have asked the question before, and I have answered it."

"But 'tis incomprehensible, and out of nature," cried the old Don. "Why have you a heart in
your bosom, blood in your veins, strong limbs, and bright eyes?"

"Was all that given me that I might love woman?" retorted Federico with a merry laugh.

"Certainly: what is life worth, without love to sweeten it? Nothing, worse than nothing. It
is that gentle sympathy of hearts, that strange fever of the soul, those sweet hopes and joyous
transports, and tremors scarce less pleasing, that render life endurable, and reconcile man
to the vileness of mortality. The nearest approach to paradise on earth, is found in bright
eyes that beam for us alone--in gentle lips that murmur to our ears words of pure tenderness
and unselfish affection."

"By the Virgin!" cried Federico, "I am neither of wood nor stone. Yes, there are creatures
of heavenly beauty whom I could love. But I am like the Moorish Prince of Granada, who was
too proud to eat common food, and fed on gold. The metal was over hard for his royal stomach,
and so he starved."

"Which means that what you could have, you don't like, and what you would like, you can't get."

"Possible," replied Federico smiling. "I strike high."

"And why not? To dare is often to succeed. For the bold and the prudent, no aim is too lofty.
But tell me more."

"Nonsense!" cried the student. "I did but jest. It occurred to me that this very day I saw
a lady whose fair face I shall not easily forget. She was richly dressed, and sat in an open
carriage, drawn by magnificent horses."

"What colour was the carriage?"

"Brown, lined with purple velvet. The arms on the panels were supported by coroneted griffins;
and on the luxurious cushions my goddess reclined, in a robe of rose-coloured satin. A black
lace mantilla floated over her alabaster shoulders, further veiled by a cloud of glossy ebon
hair; and her eyes, friend Geronimo--her beauteous eyes, were soft and heavenly as a spring
day in the almond groves of Valencia."

"You are poetical," said Regato. "A good sign. Federico, you are in love; but, by our Lady,
you are audacious in your choice."

"Do you know her?" eagerly exclaimed Federico.

"Did she appear to notice you?" inquired Geronimo, leaving the question unanswered.

"Paralysed by her exceeding beauty," replied the student, "I stood dumb and motionless in the
carriage-way, and was nearly run over. I sprang aside, but just in time. She observed me, and
smiled: I almost think she blushed. One thing I am sure of, she could not help seeing that
her wondrous beauty had turned my head."

"And that is all?" said Regato, slyly.

"What more could there be?" cried the young lawyer, indignantly. "Would you have such an angel
throw flowers at me, or appoint a rendezvous? When the carriage turned out of the street towards
the Prado, she looked back. Holy Mother of Sorrows! even at that distance, the sunshine of
those eyes scorched my very heart!--But this is folly, sheer folly! Next week I go to Ciudad
Real, and amongst dusty deeds and dry folios I shall soon forget eyes and their owner."

Señor Regato assumed a thoughtful countenance, took a large pinch of snuff, and lit a fresh
cigar. After three or four puffs, emitted through his nostrils with the delectation of a veteran
smoker, he broke silence.

"You will not go to Ciudad Real."

"And why not?" cried Federico.

"Because, if I am not greatly mistaken, you will remain here."

"Strange if I do!" laughed the student.

"Less so, perhaps, than you imagine. Would you go if the rose-coloured lady bid you stay? What
if she sent a tender billet to the young woman-hater, and said, 'Come and love me, if you have
the heart and courage of a man.' I think I see you then, though ten thousand devils barred
the way. Ciudad Real and the royal courts would soon be forgotten."

"Perhaps," replied Federico. "But you tantalise me with impossibilities."

Don Geronimo put on his hat, took his young friend's hand, and said with great gravity,--"Nothing
is impossible. And as regards love, nought in this world can withstand it--no bolt, or lock,
or bar, or rank, or power. Bear that in mind, and be of good courage, if you again fall in
with her of the rose-coloured robe. I should not wonder if you saw her this very night. Be
happy whilst you may, whilst youth and beauty last. They quickly pass, and never return; and
in love be adventurous and bold, like a true Spaniard and gallant gentleman. Daring wins the day."

He departed. Federico remained alone. With a smile at his friend's advice, the young man sat
down to study. But he soon started up, and gazed like one in a dream at the massive volumes
encumbering his table. He knew not how it happened, but the well-known letters of the alphabet
seemed changed into inexplicable hieroglyphics. The simplest passages were wholly unintelligible;
the paragraphs were all rose-coloured; black locks and brilliant eyes twined and sparkled through
the quaint arabesques and angular capitals that commenced each chapter of the code, confusing
and dazzling his brain. At last he angrily slammed the parchment-bound volume, muttered a curse
on his own folly, then laughed aloud at the recollection of that comical old fellow, Geronimo
Regato, and went to bed. There he found little rest. When he closed his eyes, the slender form
of the incognita glided before them. Her white hand, extended from beneath her mantilla, beckoned
him to follow; nay, he felt the pressure of the tiny fingers, her warm breath upon his cheek,
her velvet lips gently laid to his. And when he started from his sleep, it was to fancy the
rustle of a dress, and a sweet low voice that timidly uttered his name. So passed the night,
and only towards daybreak did he sink into a sounder and more refreshing slumber. But when
he arose, he found, to his consternation, that she who had haunted his dreams was equally present
to his waking imagination. The fascinating image of the beautiful stranger had established
itself in his heart, and Federico felt that all efforts to dislodge it would be as fruitless
as painful.

"If I believed in sorcery," he soliloquised, "I should think that old rogue Geronimo had cast
a charm over me. He predicted that she would visit me this night, and truly she has done so,
and here remains. Whether it be for the best, I greatly doubt."

Musing on the fair apparition that thus pertinaciously intruded upon him, the young lawyer
dressed himself. It was late, and to atone for lost time, he resolved to remain at home, and
study hard the whole day. But somehow or other, exactly at the same hour as on the previous
one, he found himself in the Calle Alcala; and scarcely was he there, when the brown carriage
and the splendid horses came rattling by. And there, upon the purple cushions, sat, more beautiful
than ever, the divinity who for the last twenty-four hours had monopolised so large a share
of the love-sick student's thoughts. He gazed at her with rapture, and involuntarily bowed
his head, as to a being not of the earth. She smiled: her look had something inquiring and
mysterious; then, as if by accident, she placed her hand upon the edge of the carriage, and
let a flower fall. Almost before it reached the ground, Federico caught and concealed it in
his bosom, as though it had been some precious jewel which all would seek to tear from him.
It was an almond blossom, a symbol of love and hope. Like a criminal, he hurried away, lest
his prize should be reclaimed, when he suddenly found himself face to face with Geronimo, who
gravely took off his hat and greeted his friend.

"How goes it?" said the old Don, his widowed eye twinkling significantly as he spoke. "How
have you slept? Did the lady visit you or not?"

"You saw her!" cried Federico imploringly. "For heaven's sake, her name?"

"Bah!" replied Geronimo; "I saw nothing. But if it be she who sits in yonder carriage, beware,
young man! 'Tis dangerous jesting with giants, who can crush us like straws beneath their finger.
Your life is in danger," he continued in a whisper; "forget this folly. There are plenty of
handsome faces in the world. Throw away the silly flower that peeps from your vest, and be
off to Ciudad Real, where scores of pretty girls await you."

He turned to depart; Federico detained him.

"Let me go," said Geronimo: "I am in haste. I will call upon you presently, and you shall hear
more."

But, notwithstanding his promise, and although Federico remained all day at home, impatiently
expecting him, Geronimo came not. Never had the student been so out of temper. He bitterly
reproached himself as a dreamer, a fool, an idiot; and yet there he remained, his thoughts
fixed upon one object, his eyes riveted on the almond blossom, which he had placed in water,
and whose delicate cup, now fully open, emitted a delightful perfume. And as he gazed, fancy
played her wildest pranks with the enamoured youth. Small fairy-like creatures glided and danced
between the dusty stamina of the graceful flower. At times, its leaves seemed partly to close,
and from out the contracted aperture, the lady of his thoughts smiled sweetly upon him. Then
the welcome vision vanished, and was succeeded by stern frowning faces of men, armed from head
to heel, who levelled daggers at his heart.

"By St Jago!" the bewildered student at last exclaimed, "this is too much. When will it end?
What ails me? Have I so long withstood the fascinations of the black-eyed traitresses, to be
thus at last entrapped and unmanned? Geronimo was right; at daybreak, I start for Ciudad Real.
I will think no more of that perilous syren." He plucked the almond blossom from its vase.
"And this flower," he pensively murmured, "has touched her hand, perhaps her lips! Oh! were
it possible that she loves me!" As he spoke, he pressed the flower so impetuously to his mouth,
that its tender leaves were crushed and tarnished. He laughed scornfully. "Thus is it," he
exclaimed, "with woman's love; as fair and as fragile as this poor blossom. Begone, then! Wither,
and become dust, thou perishable emblem of frailty!" Approaching the open window, he was about
to throw away the flower, when something flew into the room, struck his breast, and rolled
upon the ground. Federico started back, and his eye fell upon the clock that regulated his
studies. The hands were on the stroke of midnight, and for a moment, in his then excited state,
a feeling of superstitious fear stole over him. The next instant he was again at the window,
straining his eyes through the gloom. He could see nothing. The night was dark: a few large
stars twinkled in the sable canopy, the jasmin bushes in his balcony rustled in the breeze,
and brushed their cool leaves against his heated temples. "Who is there?" he cried. His question
was unanswered. Closing the jalousies, he took a light and sought about the room till he perceived
something white under a table. It was a paper wrapped round a small roll of wood, and secured
by a silken thread. Trembling with eagerness, he detached the scroll. Upon it were traced a
few lines in a woman's delicate handwriting. "If you are willing," so ran the missive, "to
encounter some risk for an interview with her who writes this, you will repair, to-morrow evening
at nine o'clock, to the western door of the church of St James. One will meet you there in
whom you may confide, if he asks you what flower you love best."

"And though death were in the path," exclaimed Federico, with vehement passion--"though a thousand
swords opposed me, and King Ferdinand himself--" He paused at that name, with the habitual
caution of a Manchegan. "I will go," he resumed, in a calmer but equally decided tone, "I will
go; and though certain to be stabbed at her feet, I still would go."

Lazily, to the impetuous student's thinking, did the long hours loiter till that of his rendezvous
arrived. Tormented by a thousand doubts and anxieties, not the least of these arose from the
probability that the assignation came not whence he hoped, and was, perhaps, the work of some
mischievous jester, to send him on a fool's errand to the distant church of St James. Above
all things, he wished to see his friend Geronimo; but although he passed the day in invoking
his presence, and heaping curses on his head, that personage did not appear. Evening came;
the sun went down behind the gardens of Buen Retiro; at last it was quite dark. Federico wrapped
himself in his cloak, pressed his hat over his brows, concealed in the breast of his coat one
of those forbidden knives whose short strong triangular blade is so terrible a weapon in a
Spaniard's hand, and crossing the Plaza Mayor, glided swiftly through streets and lanes, until,
exactly as the clock of St James's church struck nine, he stood beneath the massive arches
of the western portico. All was still as the grave. The dark enclosure of a convent arose at
a short distance, and from a small high window a solitary ray of light fell upon the painted
figure of the Virgin that stood in its grated niche on the church wall.

His back against the stone parapet, in the darkest corner of the portico, Federico posted himself,
silent and motionless. He had not long waited, when he heard the sound of footsteps upon the
rough pavement. They came nearer; a shadow crossed the front of the arched gateway and was
merged in the gloom, as its owner, muttering indistinctly to himself, entered the portico.
It was a man, closely muffled in a dark cloak. To judge from his high and pointed hat, he belonged
to the lower class of the people; a wild black beard, a moment visible in the light from the
convent window, was all of his physiognomy discernible by the student. He might be any thing;
a Gallego, a muleteer, or a robber.

After a moment, Federico made a slight noise, and advanced a step from his corner. "Who is
there?" cried the stranger. "Who is there?" he said. "Answer, in God's name. What do you here
at this hour of the night?"

"Who questions me?" boldly demanded the young man. And at the same time he approached the speaker.

For a moment the two men gazed suspiciously at each other; then the stranger again spoke. "Night
and solitude enjoin prudence, señor," said he; "and so, keep your distance. What brings you
to this gloomy church door? At this hour such gay cavaliers are oftener found in the Prado
or the Delicias, plucking flowers for their mistresses."

"I love flowers," replied Federico, "but I also love solitude."

"And what flower, my gallant young gentleman, do you best love?"

"Enough! enough!" joyfully exclaimed the student. "'Tis you I seek: I am ready to follow."

Without reply, the stranger produced a long black cloth.

"What is that?" said Federico, who vigilantly observed his movements.

"To blindfold you."

"Why?"

"Señor, that you may not see whither I conduct you."

"Not so!" cried the student suspiciously. "I will follow, but with open eyes."

The Gallego threw the skirt of his large cloak over his left shoulder, touched his pointed
hat by way of salutation, and said courteously, "Buenas noches, señor. May you sleep well,
and live a thousand years."

"Stop!" cried Federico; "you are mad. Whither away?"

"Home."

"Without me?"

"Without you, señor. The truth is, you are wanted blind, or not at all."

The result of the colloquy that ensued was, that the Gallego twisted his cloth thrice round
the student's eyes, ears, and nose, and led him carefully across the Plaza, down a street and
round sundry corners and turnings, till at last he deposited him in a carriage, which instantly
set off at a rapid pace. After a tolerably long drive, by no means a pleasant one for our adventurer,
whose guide held his hands firmly in his--probably to prevent his removing the bandage--the
coach stopped, the two men got out, and Federico was again conducted for some distance on foot.
He knew that he was still in Madrid, for he walked over pavement, and in spite of the thick
cloth that impeded his hearing, he could distinguish the distant sound of carriages and hum
of life. Presently a door creaked, and he apparently entered a garden, for there was a smell
of flowers and a rustling of leaves; then he ascended a staircase, and was conducted through
cool lofty apartments, and through doors which seemed to open and shut of themselves. Suddenly
his companion let go his hand. Federico stood for a minute in silent expectation, then, groping
around him with extended arms, he said in a low voice--"Am I at my journey's end? Answer!"
But nobody replied.

By one decided pull, the student tore the bandage from his eyes and gazed around him in wonder
and bewilderment. He was alone in a spacious and magnificent apartment, whose walls were tapestried
with striped blue and white satin, and whose carved ceiling was richly gilt and decorated.
The tall Venetian mirrors, the costly furniture, the beautifully fine Indian matting, every
thing in the room, in short, convinced him that he was in the favoured abode of wealth, and
rank, and luxury. A lamp, suspended by silver chains, shed a soft light over the apartment.
Federico's position was a doubtful, probably a dangerous one; but love emboldened him, and
he felt the truth of a saying of Geronimo's, that courage grows with peril. Happen what might,
there he was, and he knew no fear. The only perceptible exit from the room was by the large,
folding-doors through which he had entered. He tried them--they were fastened. His mother-wit
suggested to him that his retreat had perhaps been thus cut off, that he might seek another
outlet. He did so, and presently perceived hinges under the tapestry. A silver handle protruded
from the wall; he grasped it, a door opened, and a cry of astonishment and delight burst from
the student. Beaming with loveliness, a blush upon her cheek, a soft smile upon her rosy lips,
the lady of his thoughts stood before him.

For a moment the pair gazed at each other in silence, their looks telling more eloquently than
any words, the love that filled their hearts. But soon Federico started from his brief trance,
threw himself at the feet of the incognita, and, seizing her hand, pressed it ardently to his
lips, murmuring the while, in low and passionate accents, such broken and rapturous sentences
as only lovers speak and love alone can comprehend. The lady stood over him, her graceful form
slightly bowed, her large lustrous eyes alternately fixed upon the kneeling youth and roving
anxiously round the apartment.

"Don Federico," she said, in tones whose sweetness thrilled his blood, "may the Holy Virgin
forgive my unmaidenly boldness. I have yielded to an impulse stronger than my reason, to the
desire of seeing you, of hearing--"

"That I love you," interrupted Federico--"that I adore you since the first hour I beheld you,--that
I will die at your feet if you refuse me hope!"

She bent forward, and laid her small rosy hand upon his throbbing forehead. The touch was electric,
the fiery glow of passion flashed in her glance. "Light of my eyes!" she whispered, "it were
vain to deny that my heart is thine. But our love is a flower on the precipice's brink."

"I fear not the fall," Federico impetuously exclaimed.

"Dare you risk every thing?"

"For your love, every thing!" was the enthusiastic reply.

"Listen, then, to the difficulties that beset us, and say if they are surmountable."

The maiden paused, started, grew pale.

"Hark!" she exclaimed--"what is that? He comes! Be still! be silent!" With wild and terrified
haste, she seized Federico's hand, dragged him across the room, and opened a door. The student
felt a burning kiss upon his lips, and before he knew where he was, the door was shut, and
he was in total darkness. All that had happened since he entered the house had occurred so
rapidly, was so mysterious and startling, that he was utterly bewildered. For a moment he thought
himself betrayed, groped round his prison, which was a narrow closet, found the door, and,
grasping his stiletto, was about to force his way through all opposition, when he suddenly
heard heavy steps on the other side of the tapestried screen. Motionless, he listened.

"Bring lights!" said a deep commanding voice; "the lamp burns dim as in a bridal chamber."

"It anticipates its office," replied another male voice, with a laugh. "Is not your wedding-day
fixed?"

"Not yet; in the course of next week, perhaps," answered the first speaker, striding up and
down the apartment.

"You are in small haste," returned his companion, "to enjoy what all envy you. Never did I
behold beauty more divine and captivating."

"Beautiful she certainly is," was the reply; "but what is woman's beauty? The vision of a day;
snow, sullied and dispelled in a night."

"You are in exceeding good humour," said the friend of this morose and moralising bridegroom.

A pause ensued, during which Federico's heart beat so strongly that he thought its throbbings
must surely be audible through the slight barrier separating him from the speakers. A servant
brought lights, and a slender bright ray shot through a small opening in the tapestry, previously
unobserved by the student. Applying his eye to the crevice, he obtained a view of the apartment,
and of the persons whose conversation he had overheard. One of these wore a uniform glittering
with embroidery; the other was dressed in black, with several stars and orders on his breast.
Both were in the middle period of life: the one in uniform was the youngest and most agreeable
looking; the dark features of the other were of a sombre and unpleasing cast.

The servant left the room, and the man in black suspended his walk and paused opposite his friend.

"You had something to communicate?" he said, in a suppressed voice.

"Are we secure from listeners?" asked the officer, in French.

"Entirely; and doubly so if we speak French. Rosaura herself, did she overhear us, would be
none the wiser."

"Count," said the soldier, "I sincerely wish you joy of this marriage."

"A thousand thanks! But with equal sincerity I tell you that I am heartily weary of such congratulations.
In marrying, one gives and takes. I give Rosaura my name and rank, titles and dignities, honours
and privileges."

"And you take your lovely ward and a rich estate. A fair exchange, Excellency. I can only say
that the world wonders at the delay of so suitable a union, and even inclines to the belief
that a certain disinclination----"

"The world is greatly mistaken," interrupted the Count. "I ardently love Rosaura, and I have
his Majesty's consent to the marriage. But what a fool men take me for, if they suppose----"
he stopped short, and tossed his head with a scornful smile.

"Well?" said the officer.

"Solve the riddle yourself."

"I understand! Your position is uneasy, the future dark, the decisive moment at hand. With
one's feet on a volcano, one is little disposed to enjoy a honeymoon."

"But when the mine explodes, and one is tossed into the air, it is pleasant to fall in the
soft lap of love, there to forget one's wounds."

"Bravo! But what if the lap refuse to receive the luckless engineer?"

"Amigo!" replied the Count--"I thought you knew me better. Under all circumstances, Rosaura
remains mine. For myself, I have trained and nurtured this fair and delicate plant, and to
me, as the gardener, it belongs."

"She loves you, then?"

"Loves me? What a question! Of course she does. She has grown up with the idea that she is
to be my wife. Her heart is pure and unblemished as a diamond: it shall be my care to keep it so."

"You fear rivals."

"Fear!" repeated the Count, a smile flitting over his dark countenance. "But we trifle precious
time. What have you to tell me?"

"Something important to our cause," replied the officer, drawing nearer to his companion. "But
first, how goes it yonder?"

He pointed with his finger in the direction of the closet. Federico instinctively started back,
but again applied his eye to the loophole on hearing the Count's answer. "I have just come
thence," he said, "and must soon return. The hand of death is upon him--in vain would he parry
the blow. Still the struggle is a hard one; he persists in discrediting his danger, and will
abandon none of his habits. But the remorseless tyrant is there, soon to claim him for his own."

"Then we must take our measures without delay," said the officer.

"They are already taken," was his companion's quiet answer.

"Your colleagues are agreed?"

"Fully agreed."

"And now?"

"Read that," said the Count, taking a large folded paper from a portfolio, and spreading it
before his friend, who devoured its contents with every demonstration of extreme surprise.

"His handwriting! his signature!" he cried. "A revocation, annihilating the shameless intrigues
and machinations of years! Now, Heaven be praised, our country and religion--the faith, honour,
and dignity of Spain are rescued! How was it obtained? How possible? My noble friend, you are
indeed a great statesman!"

"Take this priceless document," calmly replied the Count; "convey it to your master. Only in
his hands is it entirely safe. The future welfare of Spain, the salvation of us all, is suspended
to its seal. That I obtained it," he continued, his voice sinking to a whisper, "is the work
of Providence. During the last two days, he has had spasms and fainting fits that have weakened
his mind and energies. The secret is well kept, and without the palace gates nought is known
of these dangerous symptoms. In such moments of agony and depression, the weary soul recalls
the past, and trembles for the future. Then, in vivid colours, I placed before him the confusion
and unhappiness, and infernal mischief, to which his deplorable decision must give rise; I
urged the injustice he had committed, the sin that would lie at his door; and showed how, almost
before his eyes had closed, the work he had achieved at peril to his soul, would sink and crumble
in an ocean of blood and tears. Alcudia supported me; the others chimed in; this document was
ready, and--he signed."

"And now we have got it," cried the officer triumphantly, "we will hold it fast with hands
and teeth. How long, think you, may he still live?"

"Castillo says not more than two days, and that he will hardly regain the full use of his intellects."
The eyes of the conspirators met; for a moment they gazed at each other, and then broke into
a smile.

"Well," said the officer, "I came commissioned to assure you special favour and high reward,
but, by my honour as a soldier, no gain or recompense can worthily requite such service as yours."

"For me little can be done," replied the Count. "My desires tend to the peaceful existence
in the arms of my young wife, far removed from cares of state. Such is the reward I promise
myself. Let your acts be speedy and decided, for it might well happen that--" his brow contracted
into deeper folds, and his voice assumed a discordant harshness--"I have decimated the ranks
of the scoundrels, but enough yet remain to give much trouble. Take sure measures, and muster
your resources. You will need them all."

"Fear not," replied the confident soldier. "We, too, have been active, and have good and steady
friends. At a word, the Realista volunteers and the trusty Agraviados fly to their arms. Romagosa,
Caraval, Erro, Gonzalez, and the venerable Cyrillo, still live. The Guards are for us. So are
the civil authorities and captains-general of eleven provinces. Let the moment come, and you
will see that, with this document in our hand, all is done. Confidence for confidence," he
continued. "Read this list of names. It contains those of our most approved friends, and will
reassure you as to the chances of the future."

He handed a paper to the Count, who, barely looking at it, said thoughtfully--

"Leave it with me till to-morrow. At the critical moment, it will be of immense weight with
many waverers. 'Tis late; in a few minutes I must go out. Place me at the feet of your gracious
master, and tell him he will have no more faithful subject than his humble slave."

"Will you see him?" said the officer gently. His companion shook his head.

"'Twere not wise," he replied. "The time is not yet come. When it arrives, I shall be the first
to bend knee before him. Be watchful, prudent, and prompt. Yet one word. You have confided
somewhat in that fellow Regato. Trust him not too far. I deem him a traitor. Let him be proved
such, and he shall not escape the rope he has long deserved. And now, farewell!"

The two men parted, and, as the Count returned from the door, Federico heard a rustling of
silks that materially increased the rapidity of his heart's pulsations.

"My fair bride!" gallantly exclaimed his Excellency, "I am enchanted to see you. How lovely
you look, Rosaura! and how deeply I regret that important affairs leave me but a few moments
to devote to you."

"It would seem," said the lady, with cold severity, "that your Excellency has converted my
poor apartment into an audience chamber."

"A thousand pardons, dear Rosaura," was the reply. "A particular friend craved a short interview."

"It is late," said the lady pointedly. "I wish your Excellency a good night."

"What!" cried the Count impatiently. "You dismiss me thus?"

"I am indisposed to-night."

"You are a cruel tyrant, Rosaura."

"I, Excellency? They say worse things of you."

"Who, and what?"

"No matter. May your Excellency live a thousand years!"

"With you, Rosaura," replied the Count, assuming an air of tenderness which, as Federico thought,
sat supremely ill upon him, and endeavouring to take her hand. She drew it quickly back.

"Veremos, Excelencia. We shall see."

"The devil take the Excellency!" cried the Count, losing all self-command, and stamping angrily
with his foot. Rosaura curtsied low.

"You forget my rights over you, Rosaura. I came to tell you that in a few days, as I hope,
my dearest wishes will be accomplished."

"We shall see, Excellency," repeated the provoking beauty.

The Count stepped up to her, and said, with his sullen smile, "You rejoice not at it, Rosaura?"

"No," was her laconic, reply.

"You love me not?"

"Love you, Excellency? a great statesman like you! Certainly not, Excellency."

"I grieve to hear it, my beautiful bride; but, fortunately, love often comes with marriage.
You shall learn to love me, Rosaura. Our existence shall be a happy and envied one. You detest
state affairs: I will leave them and devote myself solely to you. Far from the capital, we
will lead a pastoral life, amidst myrtles and meadows, flocks and shepherds, in all the sweet
tranquillity of a terrestrial paradise."

Whether sketched in jest or in earnest, this picture of rustic felicity had evidently few charms
for Rosaura, at least in the companionship proposed. Suddenly she stepped up to the Count,
took his hand, looked full into his dark serious countenance, and laughed aloud and most musically.

"What do I hear, Excellency?" she exclaimed; "you in myrtle groves and smiling meadows--you
leading a shepherd's tranquil life! Oh, ye Saints! he a shepherd in the Alpuxarras. Ah! the
flocks would fly and scatter themselves, when they beheld the gloomy lines upon your brow.
Where are sheep to be found who would be tended by that ensanguined hand? Where could you find
repose? Is there a place free from the echoes of the curses that martyred Liberals have heaped
upon you? Where is the domestic hearth around which would not range themselves the spectres
of the wretches who, at your command, have been blotted from the book of life. Count, I shudder
at the thought! Holy Mother of God! is that the happy future you would compel me to share?
No, no, never!--though the garrote were to encircle my neck, as it did that of the unhappy
lady at Granada, who refused to betray her husband, and whom you sent to the scaffold in his
stead! Has she never appeared to your Excellency, cold and pale, and with sightless eyes? For
Quito's treasures would I not behold her--her and the whole ghastly train; hundreds, ay hundreds
of them, in the long, black-bordered shrouds, and the barefooted friars with their fearful
misericordia! Mercy, mercy, Excellency! with me would come the evil spirits, and a thousand----but,
good-night, good-night, Excellency."

With a graceful movement of hand and head she glided from the room. The Count attempted not
to detain her. He stood motionless, his hand thrust into his breast, and followed her with
his eyes in mute astonishment.

"The silly child!" he at last murmured. "But how lovely she is! I, whom all fear--even HE,"
he emphatically added--"I almost quail before her mad petulance. Well, well!" he continued
after a pause, "the priest first, and discipline afterwards. A man who has bowed and broken
so many stubborn spirits, will hardly be vanquished by the humours of a wilful girl. Good-night,
my lovely bride. 'We shall see,' you said; and assuredly we will see."

He took his hat, and was about to leave the room, when, by an inadvertent movement, Federico
let fall his poniard. The Count was quick of hearing, and the noise, slight as it was, drew
his attention. He turned sharply towards the spot where the student was concealed.

"What was that?" he cried. "Something fell in the closet. Have we listeners here?"

For an instant he hesitated; then, taking one of the massive silver candlesticks, he stepped
briskly to the closet, and was almost knocked down by the door, which Federico pushed violently
open. The waxlights fell to the ground; like a winged shadow, the student sprang past the astonished
Count, reached the door before the latter recovered from his alarm, and would doubtless have
got clear off, had he not, in hurry and ignorance, turned the wrong handle. The Count grasped
his coat-skirt, and pulled him back.

"Scoundrel!" he cried. "What do you here?"

For sole reply, Federico seized his assailant by the throat, and a struggle began, which, although
speedily decided in favour of the active student, was destined to have most important results.
The Count was vigorous, and defended himself well. He had little opportunity of calling out,
closely grappled as he was, but he dealt his antagonist more than one heavy blow. At last Federico
dashed him to the ground, and disappeared from the room, leaving behind him one of his coat-skirts,
torn off in the contest. In falling, the Count's head struck against a table, and he lay for
a few seconds stunned by the shock. Recovering himself, he sprang to his feet, foaming with
rage, his dark visage black with shame and anger. "Seize him!" he cried, hurrying down the
corridor. Twenty servants flew to obey the order. But it was too late. The student passed like
a fire-flash before the porter, and made good his escape from the house. "Follow him!" shouted
the Count--"a hundred ounces for his captor!" And, stimulated by this princely reward, the
eager domestics ran, like hounds after a deer, on the track of the student, who soon heard
the shouts of his enemies, and the shrill whistle of the serenos, around and on all sides of him.

Although panting from his brief but violent struggle with the Count, Federico traversed with
extreme swiftness several streets and squares, until want of breath at last compelled him to
a moment's pause. He looked around, and observed the locality. Before him lay the massive buildings
of the royal palace, favoured by whose shadow he continued his flight, now up-hill. But the
numbers of his pursuers, their intimate knowledge of the ground, and of the short cuts and
by-lanes, gave them a great advantage; and, to his dismay, he found himself so closely and
accurately followed, that capture appeared inevitable.

"Had I but my knife," he exclaimed aloud, pausing in despair, "I would keep them off or die!
Fool that I have been! Sentries on all sides! They have taken alarm! What can I do?"

"Go to Ciudad Real, if not too late," said a man, wrapped in a cloak, and wearing a small three-cornered
hat, who suddenly stepped from behind a massive stone column, close to where the student stood.

Federico at once recognised the speaker.

"For God's sake, Geronimo!" he cried, "assist me in this strait. If they catch me, I am lost.
And hark! yonder they come! I hear the baying of the menial pack. On all sides the way is barred!"

Geronimo seized Federico's hand, and hurried him behind the pillar. "There is only one chance,"
he said, "muffle yourself in my cloak, take my hat, assume a stoop, and walk slowly, like an
old man."

"What is your plan?" cried the student.

"Ask no questions. Do as I bid you. Do you see yonder door?"

"Of the palace?"

"Go in there."

"Into the palace?"

"Of course. Look neither right nor left; cross the first court to the great portal. There await
me. Quick, quick--here they come!" And he pushed him away.

Not without doubt and disquietude did Federico obey the orders of the old man, who displayed,
in this conjuncture, a promptitude and decision rare at his age. But the student had no alternative.
Wrapped in Regato's cloak, and feigning a feeble gait, he passed slowly and unquestioned before
the soldiers of the royal guard. This impunity in a palace where the strictest watch and ward
were usually kept, was an enigma to Federico; and he was still more puzzled, when, whilst waiting
at the portal, several persons, shrouded like himself in dark cloaks, passed before him, greeting
him as they went with a muttered "buenas noches," and disappeared in the corridors of the palace.
At last came Geronimo. He had provided himself in the interval with another cloak. His appearance
was an immense relief to the student.

"Are they gone?" said Federico. "May I venture out?"

"Thank the saints that you are here!" replied Geronimo. "And now, tell me what has happened."

Federico told his adventures; and old Regato listened to the narrative with marks of the strongest
interest. Now he nodded his head, then beat the ground with his heel, or threw back his cloak
and gesticulated with his arms. When he heard what the Count had said of him and of his probable
fate, he laughed heartily. "Bah!" said he; "threatened men live long. I have had hotter broth
cooked for me, and cooled it with my breath. I hope to die in my bed, like a good Christian;
and as for my chance of a rope, I would not change with his Excellency. The infernal schemer!
I'll pay him off now. Madre de todas gracias! had we but the list of the conspirators, what
a blow might be struck!"

"The list!" repeated Federico. "Stay, let me remember!" and, plunging his hand into his pocket,
he pulled out a torn paper. "When I threw the man down, this remained sticking between my waistcoat
and neckcloth, where he had grappled me. I noticed it when I got outside, and thrust it into
my pocket."

Without listening to this explanation, Geronimo seized the paper, and, by the light of a lamp
under the portal, examined it with eager curiosity. At sight of its contents, a savage joy
sparkled in his eye.

"Ah, maldito!" he exclaimed with a laugh of triumph; "we have you now. Federico, the rose-coloured
lady is ten times more surely yours, than if you had remained in the closet and his Excellency
had not discovered you. Follow, and be silent. Whatever happens, not a word till I bid you;
then speak boldly, and tell what you know."

Through winding corridors, up and down stairs, along galleries where sentries stood like statues,
Geronimo led the way, until he reached a room whose door was opened by a gigantic lackey in
the gaudy royal livery. Federico, who followed close upon his heels, suddenly found himself
in the presence of a number of men, for the most part elderly and of grave respectable aspect,
who stood in small knots about the apartment, or sat at tables on which were wine and refreshments,
conversing in a low tone. Amongst these a hum of interest arose on Regato's entrance; and under
cover of the attention he attracted, his companion passed unnoticed.

It at once flashed upon Federico, that he had penetrated into that notorious Camarilla or secret
council of King Ferdinand VII., so much spoken of, so often cursed and scoffed at, so greatly
feared, and justly hated. This was the cringing and pernicious conclave, of whose vile proceedings
so many tales were told; these were the men, of all ranks and classes, who poured into the
jealous despot's ear the venom of calumny and falsehood; these the spies and traitors who,
by secret and insidious denunciations, brought sudden arrest and unmerited punishment upon
their innocent fellow-citizens, and who kept the King advised of all that passed in Madrid,
from the amorous intrigues of a grocer's wife, to the political ones concerted in the cabinet
of the Infante Don Carlos.

The student's first uneasiness at finding himself upon such new and perilous ground, vanished
when he saw that he was wholly unheeded. He remembered to have heard that persons once admitted
to the camarilla, and honoured by the King's confidence, were at liberty to return when they
thought fit, at short or long intervals; and thus it might well happen that some of the members
were unknown to each other. And on that night, these illicit counsellors of majesty were evidently
preoccupied with some pressing and important matter. They crowded round Regato, took his arm,
seized him by the button, whispered so eagerly, and questioned him so fast, that the little
man lost all patience.

"Hands off, gentlemen!" he cried. "Which of you will buy me a new coat when you have torn mine?
'Tis true that this morning our gracious lord the King was very ill: but I hear that he is
now better; and by the grace of our blessed Lady, he will rejoice his humble and loving slaves,
and dispel their deep anxiety, by the sunshine of his presence."

The words had scarce left Geronimo's lips, when the opening of a side-door proved the signal
for a respectful silence in the apartment. The whole assembly bowed profoundly, and preserved
that posture, although no cause was yet apparent for such extraordinary greeting. At last one
showed itself, in the person of a man who tottered slowly and feebly into the room, supported
on the arms of two attendants, his livid and bloated countenance distorted by a smile as painful
to behold as if compelled by thumbscrews. The face of the new comer, who nodded in reply to
the humble salutation of the camarilla, might once have been handsome, but it could never have
been intellectual or prepossessing, and now it was hideously cadaverous and ghastly. The features
were those characterising a well-known family, world-renowned for the high places it has filled,
rather than for the virtues or abilities of its members. The eyes were sunk deep in their sockets,
the straight, scanty black hair shaded a brow blue and transparent from disease; the tall person
and once well-formed limbs were swollen and unwieldy. The sick man's dress would have suited
some plain burgher of Madrid, taking his use in his summer-house: it consisted of a light nankeen
jacket, a white neckcloth knotted loosely round the throat, linen trousers, and large shoes.
He seemed scarcely able to set foot to ground, and the agony each step occasioned him betrayed
itself in spasmodic twitchings of the nerves and muscles. Still there was a violent effort
of the will to conceal the pangs that racked the enfeebled frame; a fruitless attempt, by the
assumption of smiling case and gracious condescension, to hide, even from himself, the approach
of that equalising hour when human greatness and human misery sink to one level.

The sick man propped himself against a table, beside which stood an easy-chair, and with an
affable wave of his hand, addressed the company.

"Good evening, señores!" he said: "we have felt ourselves somewhat unwell, and our careful
physician Castillo, as also our trusty Grijalva, was solicitous on our account. But we would
not put off this meeting. We love to meet our good friends, and are not to be kept from them,
by slight bodily inconvenience. Men fancy us more ailing than we are. You can refute such reports.
What say you, Mexas--and you, Salcedo? Is our aspect so very sickly? We know that many build
hopes upon our death; but they are mistaken, and by Our Lady, they shall be disappointed."

"God preserve our gracious lord a thousand years!" exclaimed several voices.

"An example should be made," said the man appealed to as Salcedo, "of the traitors who dare
spread lying reports concerning the royal health."

"'Tis too true," observed another, "that such rumours are used to the most criminal ends."

"We will sit down," said the sick monarch. And with the assistance of his attendants, he deposited
his exhausted person in the elbow-chair. "Drink, my friends, and tell me the news. Give me
a cigar, good Castillo. Señor Regato, how goes it? what is new in our fair city of Madrid?"

"Little is heard," replied Geronimo, "save lamentations for the indisposition of our beloved
master."

"The good people!" exclaimed Ferdinand. "We will have care of their happiness."

"And yet," said a little old man with a countenance of repulsive ugliness, "there be reprobates
who laugh whilst all true and faithful subjects weep. There is my neighbour, the merchant Alvaro.
Yesterday he married his daughter to a young nobleman, Don Francisco Palavar, who claims relationship
with the Marquis of Santa Cruz. The wedding-guests were numerous; they sang and danced, and
rejoiced beyond measure. Señor Alvaro, said I, are you not ashamed to be so joyous at such
a time? 'Friend,' was his answer, 'let the times wag--they are certainly bad enough, but must
soon change. All things have an end. We rejoice in hopes of a better future.'"

"The wretch!" exclaimed another of the camarilla. "I know him well; he was always a negro."

"A knave grown gray in the sins of the Exaltados," cried a third.

"He must be looked to," said the sick King. "Salcedo, what have you to tell?"

"I have gathered intelligence," replied Salcedo, "from an equerry of a certain illustrious
personage." He paused, and looked meaningly at the King, whose brow contracted, and whose lips
muttered a well-known name. "The equerry," Salcedo said, "tattled of great bustle and many
visits at his master's palace. For days past its court-yard had been filled with carriages,
bringing generals, ministers, dignitaries of the church, and many officers, chiefly of the
Royal Guard." On hearing this, a feverish and uneasy flush reddened Ferdinand's pale countenance,
and his dim eyes glared angrily.

"I know them," he said, "the old conspirators, the Catalan volunteers, the agraviados. Why
have I not heard this sooner? But I will take order with them. Ha, Tadeo!--you there? Why has
this been kept from me?"

Uttering these last words, the King looked directly at the spot where Federico stood. So, at
least, it seemed to the student, who, much confused, and apprehensive of discovery, averted
his eyes from the royal gaze. But his embarrassment was exchanged for consternation, when he
beheld, in the person addressed by Ferdinand as Tadeo, his recent antagonist, the affianced
of Rosaura. The Count, who stood at his elbow, gave him but one look, but that one comprised
every thing--astonishment, anger, hatred, confidence of power, and a fixed determination of
revenge. A chill came over the poor student, and he debated in his mind whether to rush from
the room, or to fall at the King's feet and reveal all he knew. His first surprise over, and
seeing that Don Tadeo took no further notice of him, he thought it wisest to follow Geronimo's
directions and remain quiet.

"My gracious liege," said Tadeo to the King, with his usual gloomy decision of manner, "it
was unnecessary to importune your majesty by such reports, seeing that they are merely lying
devices of the evil-disposed. And even were it true that many visits are paid to that palace,
its master has right and reason to receive them, without--"

By an impatient gesture, the King interrupted the speaker.

"It needs but to name the visitors," said Regato, with a quick sharp glance at Tadeo. "Eguia
is one of them; San Juan, O'Donnel, Moreno, Caraval, are others."

"Has it not been remarked," said Mexas, with a sarcastic smile, "that in the apartments of
a certain illustrious lady, meetings are also held, to which repair the Dukes of San Lorenzo
and Fernando, Martinez de la Rosa, Cambronero, and many others? What can be said against that?"

A dead silence followed this bold remark: all knew well who the illustrious lady was who thus
assembled round her the leaders of the Liberals. Suddenly the ominous pause was broken by the
voice of Federico, to whom Regato had made a sign, significant although barely perceptible.

"Don Tadeo," cried the audacious student, his mellow manly tones ringing through the apartment,
"is a traitor to his King. This very night he delivered an all-important document to an agent
of the Infante Don Carlos."

The words were an electric shock to the camarilla. The King started, and showed symptoms of
extraordinary agitation. "What is that? Who says that?" he cried, rising from his chair with
the vigour of sudden excitement. "Who knows of the document? where is it? Seize him--he shall
explain,--confess!"

"Seize the scoundrel," cried Tadeo, "who has dared intrude himself hither."

"My guards! my guards!" cried the King, his eyes rolling wildly, his features frightfully convulsed.
"Where is the paper? Tadeo, I will have it back! Ha! what is this! mercy! blessed Virgin, mer----!"
The word was unfinished; and Ferdinand, doubly tortured by bodily pain and mental anguish,
fell back into the arms of his physician.

"The King is dead!" exclaimed Tadeo. "Help here!"

The camarilla crowded round Ferdinand, who lay without sense or motion. "What is it, Señor
Castillo?" said Tadeo. The physician let fall his patient's wrist.

"A sudden paroxysm, your Excellency," he replied in a low voice. "It was to be apprehended--all
is over!"

The Count turned away, and his eye fell upon Federico, who, seeing resistance useless, stood
passive in the custody of several of the camarilla. With a vindictive frown, Tadeo pulled open
the student's cloak, and pointed to his skirtless coat.

"You cannot deny it," he said. "The proof of your guilt is in my possession. Who is the fellow?"

Geronimo Regato stepped forward and stared in the student's face.

"What!" cried he, "is not that Don Federico, the young advocate, well known in the coffee-houses
as a virulent Exaltado, a determined scoffer, a propagator of atrocious doctrines?"

"I thought as much," said the Count. "None but such an unprincipled scoundrel would dare to
act the spy in the very palace. Call the guard, and away with him to prison. Let this man be
securely ironed," he added, to the soldiers who now entered; "and let none have speech of him."

The order was promptly obeyed. A very brief space elapsed before Federico found himself in
a narrow dungeon, stretched on damp straw, with manacles on hands and feet. In total darkness,
and seated despondingly upon his comfortless couch, the events of the evening appeared to him
like some frightful nightmare. But in vain did he rub his eyes and try to awake from his imaginary
sleep; the terrible reality forced itself upon him. He thought of Rosaura, the original cause
of his misfortunes, and almost doubted whether she were indeed a woman, or some demon in angel's
form, sent to lure him to destruction. Of Geronimo, too, he thought with feelings of inexpressible
bitterness. He, the friend in whom he had placed such implicit reliance, to betray him thus;
for his own advantage, doubtless, and to draw his own head out of the noose! There were none,
then, to whom he could now look for succour. The King was dead; his successor, the apostolical
ruler, the partisan and defender of the Inquisition, whose name, for years past, had been the
rallying-cry of the disaffected, owed his crown to the powerful Tadeo whom the student had
offended and ill treated, whose love he had dared to cross, whose revenge he must now encounter.
Federico felt that his fate was sealed. Already he heard, in imagination, the clank of ponderous
fetters in the dismal halls of the Inquisition; already he saw the terrible machines--the screws
and weights, the ladder and iron couch, and felt the burning sulphur, as it was dropped hissing
upon his naked flesh by the masked and pitiless executioner. He thought of Arguelles, the Divine,
whom he had seen an animated corpse, his limbs crushed and distorted by similar tortures; and
in spite of his natural courage, a shudder came over him as he heard the bars of his dungeon
door withdrawn, and the heavy bolts shot back into their sockets. The next instant he closed
his eyes, dazzled by a glare of light.

When he re-opened them, the Count, or Tadeo, whichever was his most fitting appellation, stood
before him. With the courage of pride and despair, Federico boldly met his searching gaze.
For some moments they looked at each other in silence, broken at last by Tadeo.

"I come to question you," he said: "answer truly, and your captivity may be very brief. Deceive
me, and your life shall be yet shorter. Your crimes shall meet their just reward."

"I am guilty of no crime," retorted Federico. "I am the victim of circumstances."

"And what are they?" eagerly inquired the Count.

Federico was silent.

"Do you know me, Señor?" said the Count.

"No," was the reply.

"Beware, then, lest you learn to know me too well. What did you, concealed in yonder closet?
Where is the paper you robbed me of? Who admitted you into the house? Do you belong to a secret
society? Were you sent as a spy? A dagger was found in the closet: did you come to assassinate me?"

He paused after each question, but Federico answered none of them, save the last, to which
he replied by a stern negative. "You had best confess," resumed Tadeo. "If you are no political
offender, if no criminal project led you where I found you, I pledge my word, Señor--and I
pledge it only to what I can and will perform--you shall at once be released."

"I can say but this," replied the prisoner; "it was not my object to overhear you: an accident
conducted me where you discovered me, and I heartily regret that a casual noise betrayed my
presence."

"Is that all you will say?"

"All."

"You know not with whom you deal," cried the Count. Then, lowering his voice, and with a smile
that he strove to render amiable. "It was, perhaps, a love-affair," he said. "Young man, which
of Doña Rosaura's handmaidens did you seek? Who introduced you into that apartment? Tell me
this, satisfy me on a point that concerns myself personally, and not only will I forget all,
but remain your debtor."

Whilst thus he spoke, the Count's features expressed very different sentiments from those announced
by his smooth and placable speech. In their convulsive workings, and in the savage fire of
his eyes, jealousy and hatred were plainly to be read; he looked like a tiger about to spring
upon its prey.

"Señor," said Federico contemptuously, "you waste time. If a lady did introduce me into your
house, rest assured I am not base enough to reveal her name. From me you get no further answer.
Do with me as you will. In this unhappy land, might is above right."

"Wretch!" exclaimed the Count, fiercely advancing upon his undaunted captive; "you have betrayed
yourself. I will destroy you, knave, like an insect. A lady conceal you! What audacious slander
is this?" He struggled with his rage, and, mastering himself, resumed. "It has been proved
that you are the spy of a dangerous and treasonable association. Where is the paper you stole?"

"I have no paper," replied Federico, "and will answer no more questions. I am in your power;
do your worst."

The Count stepped to the dungeon door, and summoned two men in waiting outside. Whilst one
of them searched Federico, closely examining each pocket and fold of his dress, but without
discovering the much-coveted document, the other listened respectfully to the Count, who gave
him instructions in a low voice. His last words, which reached the ear of the student, were
not calculated to reassure him as to the future. "Be it so," said Don Tadeo. "The necessary
warrant shall at once be made out, and then--despatch." And with a vindictive glance at his
prisoner, he left the prison.

It was some consolation to the unfortunate Federico, when again in dismal solitude, and with
the prospect of a cruel death before his eyes, to reflect on the firmness he had shown, and
on the agony of jealous doubt he had inflicted on his rival. In his defenceless and desperate
circumstances, such revenge was doubly sweet; and for a while he dwelt on it with pleasure.
Then his thoughts took other direction, and an active and excited imagination transported him
from that gloomy cell to the chamber of the beautiful cause of his misfortunes. She knelt before
a crucifix, and wept and prayed for him. He heard her breathe his name, and invoke the saints
to his assistance; and in a transport of love and gratitude he extended his arms to clasp her
to his heart. They were rudely checked by the chain that linked them to the wall. And now pale
spectres flitted through the gloom, and grinned at him with their skeleton mouths, and murmured
in his ear that he must die, and never again see her whose kiss was yet hot upon his lips.
And the last ominous words and deadly look of his foe recurred to him, chasing all hope. Who
would miss him, the humble and friendless student; who inquire where or how he had met his
fate? Far greater than he, the wealthy, the titled, the powerful, had met the fate he anticipated,
at hangman's hands, in the dark and silent recesses of Spanish dungeons. To the long list of
illustrious victims, he, an insignificant one, would be added unnoticed. And the remembrance
of those who had preceded him, ennobling an ignominious death, gave Federico courage. "Yes!"
he exclaimed aloud. "I will die, as so many great and good men have died before me! Would that
I had done service to my poor oppressed country, something to deserve the tyrant's hate! But
for thee, Rosaura, will I gladly perish, and to thee only shall my last sigh be given."

His words yet echoed in the dungeon, when he heard steps at the door, and its fastenings again
withdrawn. This time, he doubted not it was his death-warrant and the executioner. Nerving
himself to endure the worst, he gazed sternly and steadily at his visitors.

"That is he," said the turnkey, to a tall, sullen-looking man.

"Take off his chains," was the answer; "and you, señor, follow me."

"Quick with your work," cried Federico. "Call your aids. I am prepared."

"Silence and follow!" harshly replied the stranger. "Lucky for you if you are prepared for all."

Without the dungeon stood a third man, muffled in a short mantle. Federico shuddered. "Another
of the hangman brood!" he murmured. "Lead on, I fear thee not!" The man followed without a
word. After traversing several corridors, they ascended a lofty staircase. Behind each door
Federico fancied a torture chamber or a garrote, but none of them revealed what he expected.
At last his conductor paused.

"Are you ready," he said, "to appear before your Supreme Judge?"

"I am ready," Federico solemnly replied.

"Then enter here."

A door opened, the student set foot across the threshold, and uttered a cry of surprise. Instead
of the garrote, instead of racks and torturers, he beheld a gorgeous saloon, brilliantly lighted
up with a profusion of wax tapers. Five or six men of distinguished mien and elegant appearance,
with stars and orders upon their breasts, were grouped round a large carved chair, and looked
curiously and expectantly at Federico. But he scarcely observed them. Even on a lady of great
beauty and majestic aspect, who sat in the chair, wrapped in a costly mantle of embroidered
velvet, his attention was fixed but for an instant, for behind her stood another lady, somewhat
pale and anxious-looking, but who yet bore so strong a resemblance to the cause of his sufferings,
to her of the rose-coloured robe, to Rosaura herself, that all the blood in his veins rushed
to his heart. Her name hovered on his lips, and, forgetting everything but love and newly-revived
hope, he was about to spring forward and throw himself at her feet, when the lady in the chair
addressed him.

"Remain there, señor," she said with a smile and gracious movement of her head, as if she divined
the impulse to which the impetuous student so nearly yielded. "You have had strange adventures,
I am told, within the last few hours. They will terminate happily for you, if you tell me the
whole truth, and relate without reserve all that has occurred. Where have you passed this night?
What took you to the house in which you were found hidden? What heard you there?"

"Señora," replied Federico, respectfully, but firmly; "I have already preferred death to the
revelation of a secret that is not mine. My resolution is unchanged. I can answer no questions."

The lady cast a friendly and approving glance at the steadfast youth.

"Now, by our Lady," she said, turning to the gentlemen around her, "this is a chivalrous fidelity,
right pleasant to behold in these unchivalrous days. I doubt not, young Sir, that the lady
of your affections will know how to repay it. But here are great interests at stake, and your
excuse may not avail. You must relate all, truly and without reserve. And to remove your scruples,
know that the secret you have so bravely kept is no longer one for any here present. Proceed!"

A look from Rosaura confirmed this assurance, and without farther hesitation, Federico told
his adventures, and repeated the dialogue he had heard from the closet. At times the listeners
seemed surprised; at times they smiled, or looked significantly at each other, and spoke together
in brief whispers. Twice had the student to tell his tale, and his words were taken down by
one of the gentlemen present. That done, the lady rose quickly from her chair, laid a hand
upon his shoulder, and fixing her keen bright eyes searchingly upon his face, pointed to the
deposition.

"Can you swear to that?" she cried. "Is it all true? Before God and his saints, did all pass
as you have said? No word too much or too little? Saw you the document with your own eyes?
Santa Madre! Is it possible? Surely it cannot be; and yet--my friends, what say you? What think
you, Duke of San Fernando, and you, Marquis of Santa Cruz? What says his Grace of San Lorenzo,
and our discreet friend, Martinez de la Rosa? No, I need not fear, whilst thus surrounded by
the best and wisest in the land. Cambronero, advise us. How may we defeat the machinations
of our crafty foes?"

The gentleman who had written down the deposition, raised his head, and Federico recognised
the features of one renowned throughout Spain as a wise counsellor and learned lawyer. With
surprise and respect the student gazed at the distinguished and illustrious persons he had
just heard named.

"Much depends," said Cambronero, "on his Majesty's health. If unhappily he departs this life
without regaining consciousness, we must recover the surreptitiously obtained document at point
of sword. No other course will then be open to us. But if, by God's gracious mercy, the king's
senses return, not a moment must be lost in obtaining from his hand a revocation of the act.
He must be told every thing; he must be shown how his confidence has been abused, and what
base advantage has been taken of a momentary weakness. He must hear the witnesses whom Heaven
has raised up for your Majesty."

"Ha!" cried the lady, with an impatient and energetic gesture, "you are right, Cambronero;
we must act! All that can be done, Christina will do. They shall not triumph by weakness of
hers! Don Fernando still lives, can yet retract. He shall hear how they have laboured to bring
shame upon his name; shall learn the perfidy of those who have environed him with their snares!
I go to tell him."

The Queen left the room. "To me it seems, Señores," said Cambronero, a quiet smile playing
on his shrewd features, "that things have happened for the best, and that the result of all
this is not doubtful, provided only the king be not already dead. The Apostolicals have been
active. Their creatures have worked their way even into the cabinet and the camarilla. The
guards, the captains-general, and many officers of state are long since gained over. In all
cases, on King Ferdinand's death, a war is inevitable. The succession to the throne is a Gordian
knot, to be cut only by the sword. The Infante will never yield his claim, or admit as valid
the abrogation of the ancient Salic law.[5] And doubtless the crown would be his, were not
the people and the spirit of the times opposed to him. He is retrograde; the Spain of to-day
is and must be progressive. The nation is uneasy; it hates despotic government and the inquisition;
it ferments from north to south, from Portugal to the Mediterranean; but that fermentation
would lack a rallying point without the decree which commands all to cling to Christina and
her children, and repel the Infante. The partisans of Carlos have striven to obtain by craft
what they could not hope to conquer by the strong hand, and they have succeeded in making a
dying monarch revoke in a moment of delirium or imbecility that all-important act. The revocation
is in the hands of the Infante; the Salic law is once more the law of the land, and Christina's
children are in their turn disinherited. And if it is impossible to restore the king to consciousness,
I fear----"

"What?" cried the Marquis of Santa Cruz.

"That we are on the eve of a great revolution."

"Hush!" said the Duke of San Lorenzo, looking anxiously around him. "These are dangerous words,
my friend." And his eye fell upon the handsome countenance of Martinez de la Rosa, who smiled
thoughtfully.

"Call it reform, Cambronero," he said; "wise progress of the times, moderate, cautious, adapted
to the circumstances; not rash, reckless, sweeping revolution."

The lawyer cast a keen glance at the former minister of the Cortes.

"Reform!" he cried. "Ay, certainly; but what reform? Does Señor de la Rosa mean such reform
as he helped to bring about? I bid him beware: these are no times for trifling. Here we stand,
but a few paces from the death-bed of a powerful prince. He fettered this revolution or reform;
but, Señores, it was only for a while and in appearance. Like the mole, it has laboured and
advanced, surely and unseen. Happy for our king if he expires before the vanity of his efforts,
and the inutility of the bloodshed and misery they have occasioned, are demonstrated; before
he learns that a principle never dies, though all the artillery of the world be brought to
bear upon it. History judges the dead; nations judge the living. Let us so act that we may
stand with honour before both tribunals."

"The subject leads us too far," said the poet and minister, rising from his chair and glancing
at Federico, who, struck and delighted by Cambronero's words, gazed at him with expanded brow
and flashing eyes. "Let us beware of kindling fanaticism: coolness and prudence are becoming
to men, and, God knows, we need both."

He took Cambronero's arm, and led him to the other end of the spacious apartment. The noblemen
followed, and the conversation was resumed in a lower tone. So enthralling had been the interest
with which Federico had listened to the words of these influential Liberals, that for an instant
he had neglected Rosaura, who stood nearly concealed behind the swelling cushions and high
gilt back of the throne-like chair. Her beautiful face wore an anxious, inquiring expression,
which seemed to reproach him with forgetting her; but as he drew near, she smiled, and rays
of love and hope broke from beneath her long dark lashes. And under the magic influence of
those beaming eyes, Federico's doubts and fears vanished like frost before mid-day sun, and
were replaced by a transport of blissful emotion.

"Rosaura!" he exclaimed, "what unspeakable joy is this! Strange, indeed, have been the events
of the night! The wonders of Arabian tales are realised. A moment ago, I awaited death in a
dungeon; and behold I am in a king's chamber, and at your feet, Rosaura. Explain these things,
adored mistress of my heart! How do we thus meet? How came you hither?"

"With our friend, Geronimo Regato," replied the lady.

"The traitor!" indignantly exclaimed Federico. "No thanks to him if I escape with life."

"Judge not so hastily," cried Rosaura: "you know not all you owe Regato. From him I first heard
your name. He was my confidant; he knew my aversion to the detested man, who considered me
already his own. My father, of an old family, although not of the highest nobility, was President
of the Burgos Tribunal, and by commercial transactions in the time of the Constitution, he
acquired great wealth. My hated suitor is also sprung from the people. My father was his friend,
and at one time had to thank his influence for escape from persecution. Out of gratitude he
promised him my hand, and, dying a year ago, left him my guardian. In that capacity he administered
my estates, and had me in his power. But, thanks to the Virgin, I am at last free from his
odious control."

She gazed tenderly at Federico, and held out her hand, which he covered with kisses. But she
hastily withdrew it, on becoming aware that their proceedings were observed by the group of
politicians.

"Is this the time and place?" she said, with a smile of sweet confusion and arch reproach.
"And yet, Federico, best beloved, why should I feign indifference, or conceal that my heart
is wholly yours?"

"Angel!" cried the enraptured student, trembling with ecstasy.

"Hush!" whispered Rosaura. "Cambronero looks and laughs at us. Hear me, Federico. The decisive
moment approaches; but I fear it not--I love and hope. It was Geronimo, disguised as a Gallego,
who brought you to my abode; Geronimo, hates him whom we hate; he knew me as a child, was my
father's friend, and loves us both. He spoke to me of you long before I saw you; he told me
the hour of your walks in the Prado. At the first glance I recognised you."

"And where is that singular man?" Federico inquired.

"I know not, but doubtless at no great distance. This night, a few hours ago, I lay sleepless
on my pillow, anxious for your fate, when a carriage stopped at the door. It was surrounded
with guards and torch-bearers, and I was told that my presence was instantly required at the
palace. My alarm at so untimely a summons was dissipated by the arrival of Geronimo. 'Fear
nothing,' he said: 'the hour of happiness is at hand. He whom you hate is vanquished. Federico
is his conqueror.'"

"I his conqueror!" cried the student. And then, recalling all that had occurred. "Strange destiny!"
he continued. "Yes, I now see that the secret intrigues of a dangerous and powerful man have
been revealed by my means. But who is he? I in vain conjecture."

"You do not know him?" cried Rosaura, greatly astonished--"not know----?" She suddenly paused,
for at that moment the door burst open, and the Queen entered the room, in extreme haste and
violent agitation.

"His Majesty is recovered," she exclaimed, her voice shrill and quivering with contending emotions;
"his swoon is over, God's grace be thanked. I have spoken, my noble friends, and not in vain.
The King will himself hear the witnesses. These young people must come with me. Call Geronimo
Regato. Remain here, Cambronero, and all of you; I must see you again, I need your counsel--desert
me not!"

"When your majesty next honours us with your presence," said Cambronero, bowing low, and raising
his voice, "it will be as Queen Regent of Spain."

Regato entered the room, and Federico rubbed his eyes in fresh astonishment. It was the same
man in the dark mantle who had followed him from his dungeon to the Queen's audience chamber,
and whom he had taken for an executioner. Gradually the mysteries of the night unravelled themselves.
He understood that if Regato had accused him, it had been to avert suspicion from himself,
and that he might work more effectually for both, by revealing to the Queen or to Cambronero
what he had learned from Federico, and by placing before them the list of the conspirators.
Musing upon this, and each moment more convinced of Geronimo's wisdom and good faith, he followed
the Queen, who, with rapid step, led him and Rosaura through a suite of splendid apartments.
Stopping before a door, she turned to the student.

"Speak fearlessly," she said: "suppress no word of truth, and reckon on my favour and protection."

Federico bowed. The door turned noiselessly on its hinges, and the Queen paused a moment as
in anger and surprise, whilst a dark glow flushed her excited and passionate countenance. From
the door a view was commanded of the whole apartment, which was dimly lighted, and occupied
by several persons, standing in a half circle, round a bed placed near a marble chimneypiece.
Upon this bed, propped by cushions into a half sitting posture, lay Ferdinand VII., his suffering
features and livid complexion looking ghastly and spectral in the faint light, and contrasted
with the snow-white linen of his pillow. A black-robed priest knelt at his feet, and mumbled
the prayer for the dying; Castillo the physician held his arm, and reckoned the slow throbs
of the feeble pulse. At the bed-side sat a lady, her hands folded on the velvet counterpane,
her large dark eyes glancing uneasily, almost fiercely, around the room--her countenance by
no means that of a sorrowing and resigned mourner.

"The document!" groaned the sick man, with painful effort; "the document, where is it? To your
hands I intrusted it; from you I claim it back. Produce it instantly."

"My gracious sovereign," replied the person addressed--and at the sound of that sinister voice,
Federico felt Rosaura's hand tremble in his--"my gracious sovereign, that paper, that weighty
and important document, signed after wise and long deliberation, cannot thus lightly be revoked
by a momentary impulse."

"Where is it?" interrupted the King angrily.

"In the safest keeping."

"In the hands of the Infante," cried the Queen, entering the room, and approaching the bed.

"Traitor!" exclaimed Ferdinand, making a violent but fruitless effort to raise himself. "Is
it thus you repay my confidence?"

"Hear me, gracious sir," cried Tadeo; but his tongue faltered, and he turned deadly pale, for
just then he perceived Rosaura, Federico, and Regato standing at the door.

"Hear these," said the Queen, placing her arm affectionately round her suffering husband, and
bowing her head over him, whilst tears, real or feigned, of sympathy or passion, fell fast
from her eyes. "They have betrayed you, Sire; they have abused your confidence; they have conspired
against me, against you, against your innocent children. Approach, Don Federico; speak freely
and fearlessly. You are under the safeguard of your King, who demands of you the entire truth."

"Enough!" said Ferdinand; "I have read the young man's deposition. Look at it, sir," he added,
to Tadeo, pointing to the paper, "and deny it if you can."

Tadeo obeyed; as he read, his hand visibly shook, and at last he dropped the paper, and sank
upon his knee.

"I cannot deny it," he said, in a troubled voice, "but let your majesty hear my justification.
I implore permission to explain my conduct."

The little lady who sat beside the King's bed sprang to her feet, her countenance flaming with
wrath, and rushed upon the kneeling man. Unbridled rage flashed from her eyes, and distorted
each feature of her face.

"Traitor!" she cried, "where is the document? what have you done with it? You stole it, to
deliver to men as vile and base as yourself! Traitor, produce it!"

"Madam!" exclaimed the astonished object of this furious apostrophe.

His remonstrance was cut short, for, quick as lightning, the ungovernable Infanta raised her
hand, and let it fall upon his face with such vigour and good will, that the minister, unprepared
for so unwomanly an assault, staggered backwards, and narrowly avoided a fall.

"Carlotta!" cried the Queen, seizing her sister's arm, and restraining her from further violence.

"The villain! the traitor!" shrieked the Infanta, in tones that resounded through the palace.

"Away with him from my sight!" cried Ferdinand, his voice growing fainter as he spoke. "The
Queen, whom I appoint Regent during my illness, will decide upon his fate. I myself strip him
of all offices and honours. Away with him, and for ever! You are no longer my minister, TADEO
CALOMARDE. Oh, God! what a bitter deception! He too! He too! By all the saints, he shall rue
it. His treachery is my death-stroke!"

The King sank back like a corpse upon his cushions; but presently recovered himself, and with
all speed, before the assembled ministers, the extorted decree was annulled, the Pragmatic
Sanction again declared in full force, and the Queen nominated Regent. Whilst this took place,
Federico, unheeded in the bustle of such important business, remained like one entranced. It
was Calomarde, then, the man whose ruthless hand had been so pitilessly stretched forth over
the suffering land--it was the all-powerful minister, the curse of Spain, the butcher of the
noble Torrijos and his unhappy companions, whom he, the insignificant student, had cast down
from his high state! The giant had succumbed before the pigmy; the virtual ruler of the kingdom
had fallen by the agency of one whom, a day previously, he might with impunity have annihilated.
Events so extraordinary and of such rapid occurrence, were hard to comprehend; and Federico
had scarcely convinced himself of their reality, when he received, a few hours afterwards,
a summons to the Queen's presence.

The morning sun shone into the royal apartment, revealing the traces of a sleepless night and
recent agitation upon the handsome features of the newly-made Regent. She received the student
with a smile, and placed Rosaura's hand in his.

"Fear nothing from Calomarde," she said. "He has fled his well-merited punishment. Those sent
for his arrest, sought him in vain. You are under my protection, Rosaura--and you also, Don
Federico. You have established a lasting claim upon my gratitude, and my friendship shall never
fail you."

It does not appear how long these fair promises were borne in mind by a queen whose word, since
that time, has been far oftener pledged than redeemed. Perhaps she thought she had acquitted
herself of all obligations when, three months later, she honoured with her presence the nuptials
of Federico and Rosaura, and with her own hand twined a costly wreath of brilliants through
the sable ringlets of the beautiful bride. And perhaps the young couple neither needed nor
desired further marks of her favour; for they withdrew from Madrid to reside in happy retirement
upon Rosaura's estates. Geronimo Regato went with them; and for a while was their welcome guest.
But his old habits were too confirmed to be eradicated, even by the influence of those he loved
best. The atmosphere of a court, the excitement of political intrigue, were essential to his
existence, and he soon returned to the capital. There, under a very different name from that
by which he has here been designated, he played an important part in the stirring epoch that
succeeded the death of Ferdinand the Well-beloved.

FOOTNOTES:

[5] By the Pragmatic Sanction, promulgated during the first pregnancy of Christina, in May 1830.

THE VISIBLE AND TANGIBLE.

A METAPHYSICAL FRAGMENT.

Those who have made their way through the German systems of idealism, from Kant to Hegel--destined
in a future age to form one of the most curious chapters in the history, or romance, of philosophy--have
probably, for the most part, come to the conclusion of their task, with the profound impression
of the futility of the study of metaphysics, which, full of labour, is yet fruitless as idleness.
L'art de s'égarer avec methode--such it has been wittily defined, and such our Teutonic neighbours
have been resolved to demonstrate it. Yet, this is not altogether the impression, we think,
which such a course of study ought to produce: a better lesson may be drawn from it. There
is, after all, a right as well as a wrong method of philosophising. The one leads, it may be,
but to a few modest results, of no very brilliant or original character, yet of sterling value
and importance. The other may conduct to startling paradox, to applauded subtleties, to bold
and novel speculations, but baseless, transient, treacherous. It evidently requires something
more than intellectual keenness; it requires the virtue of forbearance, and a temperate spirit,
to adhere to sober rectitude of thought, and eschew the temptations that a daring and self-willed
philosophy displays. Such is the lesson which these "follies of the wise" ought to inculcate.
They should lead us to intrench ourselves more securely than ever within the sound rules for
the investigation of truth.

Philosophise men will--men must. Even the darkest paths, and the most labyrinthine of metaphysics,
must be perpetually trodden. In vain is it proclaimed that they lead back only to the point
of ignorance from which they started; in vain is it demonstrated that certain problems are
indemonstrable. If the same race of men lived for ever upon the earth, such inextricable problems
might at length be set at rest. But each new generation finds them as fresh and attractive
as if they had never been touched, never probed and tortured by fruitless examination; to each
generation they appear in all the unabated charms of mystery; to each generation must their
solution at least be shown to be unattainable. In vain you write over the portal Lasciate ogni
speranza! there is always a band of youth newly arrived before the gates, who will rush in.

It is futile, therefore, to think of discarding metaphysics; if a good system is not adopted,
its contrary will speedily prevail. "A good physician," says Paul Richter, "saves us--from
a bad one--if from nothing else." And a rational method of philosophising has, at all events,
the same negative merit. Good sense, cries one, is sufficient for all the purposes of life,
and even for all the useful walks of literature. The remark might be pertinent enough if you
could secure a man in the quiet, uninterrupted possession of his plain good sense. But he who
has not studied philosophy in his youth, will probably plunge into it, without study, in his
old age. There is no guarantee against the infection of speculative thought. Some question
suddenly interests the man of hitherto quiescent temper--invades his tranquillity--prompts
him to penetrate below the surface of the matter--to analyse its intricacies--to sound its
depths. Meanwhile, untutored, undisciplined for such labours, he speedily involves himself
in inextricable difficulties--grasps at some plausibility that had been a thousand times before
seized on and relinquished--tilts valiantly at his men of straw--thrice slays the dead--and
in short, strong-limbed as he is, and with all his full-grown thews and sinews, plays upon
this new arena all the vagaries of a child. It may be said of philosophy, as it has been said
of love,--it is, or it has been, or it will one day be, your master.

We have seen reverend doctors of divinity present no very dignified spectacle when they have
suddenly bethought them of paying their somewhat late devotions to philosophy. Accustomed to
receive, as their due, a profound respect from others, they assume with easy confidence the
cloak of the philosopher; and while they are thinking only how to arrange its folds with classic
grace, they are unconsciously winding round their sturdy limbs what will sadly entangle their
feet, and bring them, with shame and sore contusions, to the ground. Some will parade an ancient
theory of morals, and introduce to us with all the pride of fresh discovery what now looks
"as pale and hollow as a ghost." Others explain the beautiful; and with a charming audacity,
a courage that is quite exhilarating, propound some theoretic fancy which has the same relation
to philosophy that Quarle's Emblems bear to that pictorial art they especially delight to descant
upon. But the greater number of these belated wanderers in the paths of philosophy, enter through
the portals of religion. How could it be otherwise? Religion and philosophy touch at so many
points--have so many problems in common--that the first moment the good man bethinks him he
will be profound, sees him plunged in all the darkest enigmas of speculative thought, there
to lose himself in we know not what heretical delusions.

Therefore, there is no one thing on which we are more disposed to congratulate Scotland than
on her chairs of philosophy. Occupied by her most distinguished men, and teaching a sound system
of psychology, they early train her youth to the severest and most useful discipline of thought.
They have given its tone and its strength to the intellect of Scotland. They teach it to face
all difficulties manfully, and to turn with equal manliness from vain and presumptuous speculations,
which, under a boastful show of profundity, conceal invariably an arrant dogmatism. We turn
with hearty satisfaction from the tissue of false subtleties which the German professor lays
before his youth, to the careful and modest analysis of mental phenomena by which a professor
in our northern universities at once enlightens and fortifies the mind. Scotland, may well
be proud of the position she has now long held in the philosophical world. Her oscillations
of error she, too, has no doubt exhibited--a necessary condition this of vitality and progress--but
nowhere has a body of philosophers so systematically adhered to the sound canons of reasoning
and research, and that upon a subject where there is the greatest facility and temptation to
depart from them.

M. Cousin, and others who take that discursive light-tripping philosopher for their guide,
have represented the Scotch as a sort of half Germans, and have both praised them, and praised
them coldly, on this very account, that they have travelled half-way, and only half-way, towards
the region of "high a priori" speculation. With M. Cousin's permission, the Scotch come of
quite another house. His praise we should beg leave to decline: he may carry it to Alexandria,
if he will. The method of philosophising pursued in Germany is fundamentally different from
that which happily obtains in Scotland. No two schools of philosophy could resemble each other
less. For ourselves, we regard the whole history of modern German speculation--the most remarkable
instance, in our judgment, of great mental powers ill applied which the world has ever witnessed--as
one continuous comment upon this text, the necessity of adhering to careful, honest observation
of mental phenomena, however homely may be the results of such observation, and the astounding
conclusions to which a train of thought rigidly pursued may conduct us, if, at its very point
of departure, it has broken loose from this the first obligation of philosophy. The whole career
of German speculation manifests a disregard of some of those fundamental principles of human
belief, which, according to M. Cousin himself, it is the peculiar merit of the Scotch to have
seized and held with tenacity.

These observations we will illustrate by a glance at the theories propounded on the great subject
of perception--on the nature of our knowledge of the external world, this visible and tangible
creation.

To a plain unsophisticated man, a stranger to the subtleties of metaphysical thought, it appears
quite inconceivable, when he is told that the existence of the visible and palpable scene before
him should be converted into a problem of apparently invincible difficulty. Yet so it is. The
metaphysician first carries off in triumph what are called its secondary qualities, as colour
and heat, proving them to be no qualities of matter, but of mind, or the sensitive being. He
next assails what had been pronounced to be its primary or essential qualities; the dark tangible
mass that he had left behind is not suffered to retain its inert existence; extension, the
power to fill space or resist pressure, what are these, he asks, but our own sensations or
remembered sensations of touch, which have got associated, embodied together, agglomerated
round some occult cause? What, after all, he exclaims, do we know of matter but as a something
which possesses certain influences over us?--a something which is utterly unrepresented to
us by the senses. And now this word "substance," which formerly expressed a thing so well known,
and every moment handled and looked at, is transformed to an invisible, intangible, imperceptible
substratum--an unknown upholder of certain qualities, or, in more exact language, an unseen
power clothing itself in our attributes--an existence far more resembling what is popularly
understood by spirit than by matter. At length, even this unseen substratum is drawn within
the world of thought, and becomes itself mere thought. There is no matter, there is no space,
save what the mind creates for, and out of itself. Our man of simple apprehension, much bewildered,
not at all convinced, breaks from the chain of sophistry, opens wide his eyes, and declares
after all that "seeing is believing."

We think so too.

On this subject of perception it is well known that Reid and Stewart, refusing to be drawn
into any hypothesis or unsatisfactory analysis, contented themselves with stating, in the preciser
language of the schools, the fact as it appears to the plain unsophisticated observer. Reid's
explanations are unfortunately mingled up with his controversy against the old hypothesis of
ideas or images of things perceived in the mind--an hypothesis combated by him with unnecessary
vehemence--but this detracts little from their substantive correctness or utility. This strange
notion of images emanating from the external object, entering the mind, and being there perceived,
was, after all, in its origin, rather a physical than a metaphysical hypothesis. The ancient
speculator upon the causes of things felt, as we feel at this moment, the necessity for some
medium of communication between the eye and the distant object, and not having detected this
medium in the light which traverses or fills the space between them, he had recourse to this
clumsy invention of images or species raying out from the surfaces of things. At the time when
Reid wrote, this hypothesis, in its crude form, cannot be said to have existed; but it had
left its traces in the philosophical language of the period, and there was certainly a vague
notion prevalent that the idea of an object was a tertium quid, a something that was neither
the mind nor the object.

We will quote the statement which Dugald Stewart makes of Reid's doctrine of perception. As
he himself adopts the statement, it will embrace at once the opinion of both these philosophers:--

"To what, may it be asked, does this statement (of Reid's) amount? Merely to this, that the
mind is so formed that certain impressions produced on our organs of sense by external objects,
are followed by correspondent sensations, and that these sensations (which have no more resemblance
to the qualities of matter, than the words of a language have to the things they denote) are
followed by a perception of the existence and qualities of the bodies by which the impressions
are made; that all the steps of this progress are equally incomprehensible; and that for any
thing we can prove to the contrary, the connexion between the sensation and the perception,
as well as that between the impression and the sensation, may be both arbitrary; that it is
therefore by no means impossible that our sensations may be merely the occasions on which the
correspondent perceptions are excited; and that at any rate the consideration of these sensations,
which are attributes of mind, can throw no light on the manner in which we acquire our knowledge
of the existence and qualities of body. From this view of the subject, it follows that it is
the external objects themselves, and not any species or images of these objects (or, we may
add, any mere agglomeration of present and remembered sensations) that the mind perceives;
and that although, by the constitution of our nature, certain sensations are rendered the constant
antecedents of our perceptions, yet it is just as difficult to explain how our perceptions
are obtained by their means, as it would be upon the supposition that the mind were all at
once inspired with them, without any concomitant sensations whatever."--(Elements of the Philosophy
of the Human Mind, Vol. i. p. 92.)

It is seen here that both Reid and Stewart considered perception as a simple elementary fact
or phenomenon of the human mind, and refused their assent to that analysis which would resolve
it into sensation, accompanied with certain acts of memory and judgment. This last, however,
has been the most popular amongst modern psychologists, who have many of them expressed an
extreme impatience at the apparent sluggishness of these veterans in philosophy. We remember
the time when we shared the same feeling of impatience, and thought it a most useless encumbrance
to maintain this perception amongst the simple elements of the human mind: we now think otherwise,
and see reason to acquiesce in the sound judgment, which took up the only safe, though unostentatious
position, which this embarrassing subject affords.

Dr Brown, it is well known, departed from his predecessors at this point, and may here be considered
as one of the ablest representatives of the sensational school. He expended much ingenuity
in his analysis of perception, though in our opinion with very little result. No one saw more
distinctly than he, that sensation alone could never give us the idea of an external object,
or of space, or any thing external to the mind. No one has more satisfactorily shown that the
notion of an extended resisting body, supposed by many to be resolved into the sensations of
touch, cannot be derived from this source alone, but must have some other origin than the pure
sensation, which is a mere mental phenomenon or state of the consciousness. But he imagined
he had overcome the difficulty by introducing to us a new sensation, the muscular, that which
we experience when we move our limbs. What he could not derive from the old sense of touch,
he thought himself able to deduce from the reasonings of the mind on this muscular sensation;
but the same difficulties which he himself so lucidly set forth when treating upon touch, will
be found to pursue him here also. This muscular sensation, like every other, is in itself a
mere state of the consciousness, begins and ends in a mere pleasure or pain. That it terminates
abruptly, and contrary to our volition, in a feeling of resistance, (as when our arm is arrested
in its motion,) is saying nothing more than that one sensation gives place to another without
our willing it; a statement which might be made in a thousand other cases of sensation with
equal propriety. But the author shall explain his own theory.

"The infant stretches his arm for the first time, by that volition without a known object,
which is either a mere instinct or very near akin to one; this motion is accompanied with a
certain feeling; he repeats the volition, which moves his arm, fifty or one thousand times,
and the same progress of feeling takes place during the muscular action. In this repeated progress
he feels the truth of that intuitive proposition, which in the whole course of the life that
awaits him is to be the source of all his expectations, and the guide of all his actions--the
simple proposition that what has been as an antecedent, will be followed by what has been as
a consequent. At length he stretches out his arm again, and instead of the accustomed progression,
there arises, in the resistance of some object opposed to him, a feeling of a very different
kind, which, if he persevere in his voluntary effort, increases gradually to severe pain, before
he has half completed the usual progress. There is a difference, therefore, which we may without
any absurdity suppose to astonish the little reasoner; for the expectation of similar consequents
from similar antecedents, is observable even in his earliest actions, and is probably the result
of an original law of mind, as universal as that which renders certain sensations of sight
and sound the immediate result of certain affections of our eye or ear. To any being who is
thus impressed with belief of similarities of sequence, a different consequent necessarily
implies a difference of the antecedent. In the case at present supposed, however, the infant,
who as yet knows nothing but himself, is conscious of no previous difference; and the feeling
of resistance seems to him, therefore, something unknown, which has its cause in something
that is not himself."--(Vol. i. p. 514.)

There is a certain pre-arrangement here of the circumstances to suit the convenience of explanation.
The little arm of the infant being very closely fastened to its own little body, it could hardly
move it fifty or a thousand times in succession, or even once, without its muscular sensation
terminating in the sense of resistance, or pressure, which is but another form of the sense
of touch. In short, this would be always sooner or later the consequent upon this muscular
sensation. And it appears very evident that "the little reasoner," more especially if he held
the same doctrine as Brown on the nature of cause and effect, would look no further than the
first sensation for the cause of the second. There would be few instances in his limited experience
more marked of invariable antecedence and consequence than this,--that the muscular sensation
would sooner or later be followed by a tactual one. If we could suppose it possible, that the
infant logician had to make the discovery of an external world by an effort of reasoning upon
its sensations, we should say that this case was the least likely of any to lead him to the
discovery--the least likely to impel him to look out of the circle of sensations for a cause
of them.

Mere sensation of any kind, reason on it how we will, cannot account for the perception of
external objects, which is another and separate fact. We are reduced to admit that it is by
a simple primary law of our constitution that the organs of sense (which may with equal propriety
be called the organs of perception) convey to us a knowledge of the external world. We touch,
and a tangible extended body is made known to us; we open our eyes, and a visible body is before
us.

Dr Brown, adopting and refining upon Berkeley's theory of vision, attributes originally nothing
more than the mere sensation of colour to the eye, which sensation, by association with that
of touch, becomes extended, so to speak, over an external surface, and defined into limited
figures. We are not disposed to lay any greater stress than Dr Brown himself upon the image
said to be traced upon the retina; but we say that the eye, as well as the touch, immediately
informs us of external surface and definite figure.

There is, it is true, a sensation of colour apart from the perception. This may be separated,
in our reflection, from all external surface. It is a pleasure which colour gives, and which
enters largely into the complex sentiments of beauty. But our notion of colour itself we cannot
dissociate from external surface: we cannot think of colour but as something outward. And if
it comes to us originally under the condition of external surface, it must also present itself
originally under certain forms and figures; for only where the whole field of vision is occupied
by one unvaried colour, as when the eye is fixed upon a cloudless sky, could there be the perception
of surface without some figure, more or less defined on it.

And why is it, that on a subject of this nature the manifest facts witnessed in the whole animal
creation are to be overlooked? If other animals evidently, on the first opening of their eyes,
see form, and movement, and the whole world before them; does not this sufficiently intimate
the instantaneous knowledge which it is the nature of vision to bestow? The human infant arrives,
indeed, more slowly at the perfect use of its senses. It arrives, also, more slowly at the
perfect use of its limbs. But we never conclude because it does not rise and skip about the
fields like a dropped lamb, that there is any essential difference between its muscular powers
and those of other animals of creation. Why should we suppose that its vision is regulated
by different laws merely because it obtains the perfect use of its eyesight somewhat later?

Let us now turn from the imperfect analysis which the sensational school presents, to the speculations
of the idealist. It will be seen that the hasty conclusions of the first gave a sort of basis
for the strange results to which the second would conduct us.

Kant looked in vain for the idea of extension, or of space, where the philosophers had been
seeking it, in the phenomena of sensation. He pronounced, therefore, that it was not derivable
from experience, did not come to us from without, through any direct communication from the
senses. Not finding this idea of space where the analytical psychologist had been searching
for it, he drew it at once from the mind itself. He described it as a product of the subject
man, a form of the sensibility with which he invests his own sensations.

We must first remark, that to this description of what perception really is, there lies the
same objection that may be urged against the account of the sensationalist. A sensation clothed
in space!--is this intelligible? is it by any means an account of the matter? To invest sensation
with space, is it not as if we spoke of a pleasure that was square, or of a circular pain?

So far, however, as this internal origin of the idea of space is concerned, the statement of
Kant, though expressed in unusual terms, is not opposed to the general belief of mankind, or
to our irresistible convictions. It may merely convey this meaning, that the mind has an immediate
knowledge (drawn from the laws of its own cogitation) of space, or extension. But then, according
to the universal and unalterable convictions of mankind, this idea of space, though it may
be derived from the innate resources of the mind, is in fact the knowledge of an external reality--of
an objective truth. Kant decided otherwise. He pronounced this form of the sensibility to be
merely and only a mode of thought--that space had, in fact, no other existence, was solely
a subjective truth.

This one decision has been the cause of, or at least has served as the starting-point for a
series of the wildest speculations that perhaps philosophy has to record. And this decision,
how arbitrary!--how dogmatic!

It must be manifest, we think, to every intelligent person, that, granting we cannot demonstrate
the objective truth of the existence of space, it is equally impossible to prove its subjective
nature. We cannot conceive of space but as existing really around us. The metaphysician says
we may be deceived. This universal and irresistible conviction--this fundamental law of human
belief, may not be correspondent with absolute truth, may not be trustworthy. Granted that
we may be deceived, that there is footing here for his scepticism, he cannot proceed a step
further, and show that we are deceived. When, in his turn, he would assert, or dogmatise, he
at all events is as open to our scepticism as we were to his. If a fundamental belief of this
kind is not to be trusted, so neither can it be convicted of falsehood. We cannot launch ourselves
out of our own nature; we cannot test our own faculties of cognition. This could only be done
by some superior intelligence who could survey apart the object and the percipient subject.

We may be deceived in believing that we ourselves exist--that there is any permanent being
we call ourselves--but there is no demonstrating that we are so deceived. The two cases are
strictly analogous. We have just the same proof of the existence of the external object as
of the thinking and percipient subject. The very first sensation or perception we experience
brings with it instantaneously the two correlates, object and subject; they are made known
in the same act or feeling; they are made known the one by means of the other--for unless through
the means of the antagonist idea of object we should not have that of subject, nor vice versâ.
In our judgment, therefore, there is as little philosophy in denying the external existence
of matter as the internal existence of mind. The two ideas, as we have said, rise instantaneously,
synchronously, and are in such manner correlates that it is only by the presence of the one
that the other reveals itself.[6]

When Kant advanced from doubting of the objective truth of our knowledge of space, to deciding
against it--to asserting that it was purely subjective--he was exceeding the limits of the
human faculties, and offering a mere dogmatism which can never be brought to any test whatever.
He was asking us to judge of the trustworthiness of our faculties of cognition--by what?--by
our faculties of cognition. He was elevating what is at best a strange suspicion, a mere guess,
into a doctrine.

And the whole superstructure of the systems of idealism which his German followers have reared,
rests upon this guess!

Kant left nothing of the material world but an indescribable noumenon, which did not even exist
in space. Of course the categories of Aristotle, classifying as they did those relations which
constitute our knowledge of this world, were converted by him into mere forms of the understanding,
moulding the given products of the sensibility. Certain other regulative modes of thought predominating,
in their turn, over the products of the understanding, he called ideas of the pure reason.

His successor, Fichte, it will be seen, advanced but little further when he pronounced for
a system of idealism. The subjective nature of our knowledge had been laid down; there was
nothing left of the real world but this noumenon which had been ejected from the realm of space;
he acted, therefore, a consistent and charitable part, in taking this forlorn and banished
entity into the region, at least, of thought. All the external world is now but a projection
from the individual mind--the non-ego is but another development of the ego--the object is
nothing but a sort of limitation or contrast which the subject throws out, to make a life for
itself; the web it spins in the blank infinitude. Of the whole material world we have for ever
got rid.

Here it might be supposed that speculation in this direction had reached its extreme point;
and as idealism is a system in which the mind cannot long rest, contradicting, as it does,
its ineradicable convictions, that here would commence a philosophical revolution, and a return
to a more sober and accurate method of investigation. But the German mind has put forth at
this point an astonishing fertility. It has played with this idealism, refined upon it, varied
it, produced new phases of it; reviving the strangest paradoxes of the Alexandrian school;
and teaching--in this, the nineteenth century--with the gravest confidence in the world--with
all the assurance of an ancient Scald chanting forth his mythological fables, a whole system
of idealistic cosmogony!

Schelling, in his idealism, in some measure reinstated the object; not by reviving the vulgar
notion of its reality, but declaring it to be in its essence identical with the subject, and
pronouncing both to have an equally real or equally ideal existence. He thus got rid of the
embarrassment which encounters us in the ordinary systems of idealism, of the subjective Ego
producing the objective Ego. Thought and thing are identical. But this identity is to be recognised
only in the mind of God, in the absolute--which develops what in itself is unity in the form
of a duality. As if (to use a rude illustration) the same image should be shot from the interior
of a magic lantern through two diverging tubes, making that twofold which was itself identical.

As it is hard for common apprehension to conceive this absolute, and seize upon this identity
of thought and thing, Schelling invented a faculty of mind expressly for the comprehension
of such profound doctrines of philosophy. He called it intellectual intuition. Those who possess
it not--and it is by no means general--must be content to live without philosophy. Nor can
those on whom nature has failed to bestow this intellectual intuition, acquire it by any study
or industry of their own. Philosophus nascitur, non fit.

Viewed from one aspect, Schelling's philosophy is not without a certain charm. "Spirit is invisible
nature, nature is visible spirit." In this view of things, if mind loses its pre-eminence,
nature, or the visible world, is exalted and spiritualised. It is a system likely to fascinate
the poet and the artist, and we believe it has had a recognised influence on the cultivation
of the fine arts in Germany. It awakens our enthusiasm for nature. More than ever is mind,
is deity, seen in the visible world. Nature is, in fact, deified, whatever other sacrifices
are made.

But if there was something for enthusiasm to lay hold of in the system of Schelling, there
was much wanting, it seems, to satisfy the rigid demands of philosophy. His cosmogony, his
manner of tracing, a priori, the development of all things from the absolute, was considered,
by those who understand such profundities, to be deficient in accuracy. Hegel next trod

          "with wandering feet
    The dark, unbottomed, infinite abyss."

And we are told gravely, by grave expositors, how, beginning with nothing, he showed, with
logical precision, how every thing had regularly proceeded from it!

In the system of Hegel, object and subject are both lost sight of: nothing exists but the relation
between them. As the thing and the thought of it are identical, and as the essence of a thought
is the relation between two terms, it follows very logically that this relation is all, and
that nothing really exists but relations. We should have supposed this to be a fair reductio
ad absurdum, proving (if the matter could need of proof) that the thing and the thought were
not identical. But the march of ideal philosophy was not to be so easily arrested.

We have now reached what is distinguished as absolute idealism.

"They (the three idealisms) may be thus illustrated," (writes Mr Lewes in his History of Philosophy.)
"I see a tree. Fichte tells me that it is I alone who exist; the tree is a modification of
my mind. This is subjective idealism. Schelling tells me that both the tree and my ego are
existences equally real, or ideal, but they are nothing less than manifestations of the absolute.
This is objective idealism. But Hegel tells me, that all these explanations are false. The
only thing really existing is the idea--the relation. The ego and the tree are but two terms
of the relation, and owe their reality to it. This is absolute idealism."[7]

If Martinus Scriblerus were alive, he also might be tempted to give an illustration of these
three forms of idealism.

The crowd of spectators at a fair, he might say, if they see a man dancing upon the tight-rope,
strained between two posts--have no doubt in the world that the rope, and the man on it, are
equally supported by the same two posts, which, moreover, they presume to stand up there in
veritable substantiality before them. Were our three sages at the fair, they would reason otherwise.
Fichte would say--these people think there are two posts! There is but one. That left-hand
post is but the shadow of the other. It is the right-hand subjective post which has projected
it forth.

Schelling, gravely looking on, observes they are both shadows: nay, they are identical. If
you were to stand in the centre of the rope, in the point of indifference between them, and
to turn round till the intellectual intuition were sufficiently excited, you would find the
right-hand and the left-hand post blended together--undistinguishable--you would perceive their
absolute identity.

Shadows! identical! Very true, says Hegel, slowly stepping forward, but what a mistake have
both philosophers and the vulgar been making all this time! They have presumed that these posts
support the rope! It is the rope which upholds the posts; which are indeed but its opposite
ends. You may see that, separately, each post is good for nothing; it is the relation between
them that is every thing; the rope is all. This alone can be said to exist. Every thing about
us is plainly at one end or the other end of this, or some other rope. There runs, he would
add, a vulgar tradition that man made the rope. I will demonstrate that the rope made the man
and every thing else in the whole fair.

       *       *       *       *       *

But it is not our object at present to enter further into the labyrinth of German metaphysics;
at a future time, if our readers should endure the subject, we will endeavour to act as guide
and interpreter through some of its more curious passages; we are here concerned only with
the points of view taken of the material world. Have we not said enough to support our thesis?
to prove what strange results may be arrived at if philosopher, following after philosopher,
bases his speculations on what is current in the school-room, instead of recurring to honest
and simple-minded observations of nature--and to show that on this subject of perception our
veterans Reid and Stewart have taken up the only safe position our present knowledge admits of?

FOOTNOTES:

[6] "Relatives are known only together: the science of contraries is one. Subject and object,
mind and matter, are known only in correlation and contrast, and in the same common act: which
knowledge is at once a synthesis and an antithesis of both, and may be indifferently defined
an antithetic synthesis and a synthetic antithesis of the terms. Every conception of self necessarily
implies a conception of not self; every perception of what is different from me, implies a
recognition of the percipient subject in contradistinction from the object perceived. In one
object of knowledge, indeed, the object is the prominent element, in another the subject; but
there is none in which either is known out of relation to the other. The immediate knowledge
which Reid allows of things different from the mind, and the immediate knowledge of mind itself,
cannot, therefore, be split into two distinct acts. In perception, as in other faculties, the
same indivisible consciousness is conversant about both terms of the relation of knowledge."--Edinburgh
Review, No. 103, p. 165.--A very able and elaborate paper, attributed to Sir William Hamilton.

[7] Lewes' Biographical History of Philosophy. Vol. iv., p. 209. In every way a remarkable
work. Written with great vivacity and clearness, comprising a world of matter in the briefest
possible space,--and, O reader, and O author, forgive the anticlimax!--at the least possible
cost. In fact it forms part of the Series known as "Knight's Weekly Volume." To find a strictly
original work of so much ability given to the world in this form, proves that the publisher
and the man of letters are, in this mercantile age, second to none in the activity and enterprise
with which they render their service to the public.

CHARLES DE BERNARD.

The position of French novels and novelists in the appreciation of the English public, has
undergone, within the last few years, a notable change. We need revert to no distant period
to recall the day when the word "Paris" on the title-page of a book of fiction, was, to the
work so inscribed, virtual sentence of exclusion from respectable library and decent drawing-room
this side the Channel. It was the foul-bill of health, the signal of a moral quarantine, interminable
and hopeless of pratique. French novels came to England and were read; but the arrivals were
comparatively rare, the readers scarce more numerous; whilst by the masses they were condemned
as contraband and dangerous merchandise, and eschewed as religiously as Lyons silks by the
humane, when Spitalfields are starving. The wilful and wicked minority who took pleasure in
their pungent pages, did so clandestinely, and with precaution. In carefully-locked desk, or
on topmost shelf of bookcase, lurking behind an honourable front-rank of history and essay,
the disreputable literature was bestowed. Nor was its reception more openly hospitable when
arrayed in English garb. Translators there were, who strove to render into the manly, wholesome
Anglo-Saxon tongue, the produce--witty, frivolous, prurient, and amusing--of Gallic imagination.
But either the translations shared the interdict incurred by the objectionable originals, or
the plan adopted to obtain their partial acceptance, destroyed pith and point. Letters from
plague-ridden shores are fitted for the perusal of the uninfected by fumigation and other mysterious
processes. They reach us reeking with aromatics and defaced by perforations, intended doubtless
to favour the escape of the demon of pestilence bodily imprisoned within their folds. But their
written contents are uninjured by the salutary operation; the words of affection, the combinations
of commerce, the politician's plans, are still to be read upon their stained and punctured
surface. Not so with the French novels that underwent fumigation and curtailment at the hands
of decorous translators. The knife that extirpated the gangrene, unavoidably trenched upon
the healthy flesh: in rooting up the abundant tares, the scanty grain was shaken out, and chaff
and straw alone remained.

We speak of times past, although still recent; glance we at the present, and, Heaven help us!
what a change is here! Tempora mutantur et libri--or it were perhaps more proper to say, et
lectores. With headlong velocity, one extreme has been abandoned for its opposite. The denounced
of yesterday is the favoured of to-day; the scouted is now the cherished; the rejected stone
has a lofty place in the literary edifice. French novels, translated, if not original, are
as commonly seen in the "best regulated families" as comfits at the confectioner's or poison
on potter-carriers' shelves. The ban is removed, the anathema revoked; either the Upas has
been discovered to be less baneful than was imagined, or the disease lurking at the core has
been forgotten in the bright colours and pleasant flavour of the appetible fruit. We take up
the newspaper. What heads the column? Half a score advertisements of the "Mysteries of Paris"--a
new edition of the "Wandering Jew," "illustrated by the first artists"--"Memoirs of a Physician,"
in twopenny numbers and shilling volumes; French novels, in short, at all prices and in every
form. We step into the club; the produce of Paris and Brussels presses strews the table, and
an elderly gentleman, with a solemn face and quakerish coat, searches amongst them for the
nine-and-twentieth volume of "Monte Christo," or of some other French romance of longitude
equally sea-serpentine. We call upon our friend Tom Sterling, a worthy fellow, much respected
on 'Change. Miss Sterling is deep in a natty duodecimo, whose Flemish aspect speaks volumes
in favour of international copyright. Our natural clearsightedness enables us to read, even
from the door, "Société Belge de Librairie" upon its buff paper cover. Is the book hastily
smuggled under sofa-cushions, or stealthily dropped into the neglected work-basket? By no means.
The fair student deliberately marks her place, and engages us in a controversy as to the merits,
faults, and beauties of a score of French romancists, in whose lucubrations she assuredly is
far better read than ourselves. In short, English aversion for French modern literature has
disappeared, and been replaced by partiality--not to say affection. Dumas is a staple commodity;
Sue is voted delightful; English authors of talent and standing translate or "edite"--to use
the genteel word now adopted--the works of French ones; even George Sand finds lady-translators,
and, we fear, lady readers; French books are reprinted in London, and the Palais Royal is transported
to the arcade of Burlington. We shall not take upon ourselves to blame or applaud this change
in public taste, to decide how far such large importation and extensive patronage of foreign
wares are advantageous or deplorable--to tax with laxity those who write, or with levity those
who read, the lively and palatable productions of the present French school. Without encouraging,
we will venture to direct, the prevailing appetite, by pointing the attention of Maga's readers--whose
name is Legion--to the writings of an author not the best known, but certainly one of the most
accomplished, of his class. In France, his reputation stands very high; and if in England it
is not yet equally well-established, it must be attributed to his having written little, and
to the absence of that charlatanry and egotism which has brought other cultivators of the Belles
Lettres into such universal notice here and on the Continent. M. Dumas, for instance, even
had his writings, and those of the numerous staff of literary aid-de-camps to whose bairns
he stands godfather, been less diverting, would still have commanded readers in every country
where French is understood, and which the post from Paris reaches. The man is his own advertisement;
his eccentricities are worth, at a moderate estimate, a dozen advertising vans, a daily paragraph
in a score of newspapers, and a cartload of posters. He is a practical puff, an incarnate stimulant
to popular curiosity. Let the public appetite for his weekly volumes flag ever so little, and
forthwith he puts in practice, for the renewal of his vogue, devices so ingenious, that proceeding
from any but the privileged monarch of romance-writers, they would be looked upon as the tricks
of a lunatic. One day in a court of assizes, the next at that of a king, on the morrow before
a civil tribunal, the illustrious inheritor of the marquisate of La Pailleterie parades his
graces, jogs the world's memory as to the fact of his existence, and bids it read his books
and bow before his footstool. To-day he is on the Corso, to-morrow on the sunny banks of Rhine;
the next day he peeps into Etna's crater, or gasps beneath the brazen sky of shadeless Syria.
Now we hear of him in Spanish palaces, figuring at royal weddings, and adding one more to the
countless ribbon-ends that already grace his button-hole; and scarcely has our admiration subsided,
when a Mediterranean breeze murmurs sweet tidings of his presence on African shores, taking
his coffee with Beys, commanding war-steamers, riving the captive's fetters, and rivetting
his claims on his country's gratitude. Wherever he goes, he stands, a modern Gulliver, pre-eminent
in moral giantship, amidst surrounding pigmies, who

     "Walk under his huge legs, and peep about To find themselves
     dishonourable graves."

And the seeming ubiquity of the famous quadroon[8] is not more marvellous than the multiplicity
of characters he assumes. "Dumas at Home and Abroad" offers an inexhaustible theme and a boundless
field for pen and pencil caricaturists. Alternately dramatist, novelist, tourist, ambassador,
the companion of princes, the manager of theatres, an authority in courts of justice, a challenger
of deputies, and shining with equal lustre in these and fifty other capacities equally diverse,
what wonder that the slightest work flowing from the pen of so remarkable a genius, though
it be but a forgotten "trifle of twelve thousand lines," is received with intense gratitude,
and caught at like manna by a famished multitude? Eugène Sue is another writer who has taken
the world by storm, but in quite a different fashion. The ex-lieutenant of marine does not
obtrude his personality upon public notice, and relies more upon the powerful calibre of his
guns than upon their number. Two books, lengthy ones certainly, established his reputation.
He had been many years a cultivator of literature, and had produced sundry romances of little
more than average merit, when he suddenly burst upon the public, in the widely spread feuilleton
of the Débats, with a work which, however objectionable in some respects, is unquestionably
of extraordinary power and interest. Like the Pickwick Papers, the "Mystères de Paris" at once
established their author in popular estimation, not only in the land in whose language they
were written, but in all the reading countries of Europe. It was the opening of a new vein
in the literary mine, and though the metal might have been purer, it had all the glitter that
captivates the multitude. The "Juif Errant," inferior to its predecessor, was scarcely less
successful. Its bitter attacks on the Jesuits, and the consequent anathemas fulminated against
it, with more zeal than wisdom, by certain of the French clergy, doubtless contributed to its
vogue. After Sue and Dumas, Balzac is (with the exception, perhaps, of Madame Dudevant,) the
best known, and most read, out of France, of all the living French novelists. We hold him much
over-rated, but his great fertility, and the real excellence of a few of his books, have made
him a widely-spread reputation. His early efforts were less successful than those of Sue; and
his first thirty volumes scarcely attained mediocrity. At last he made a start, and took his
place on the first line of his class, in virtue of a few masterpieces, scanty diamonds glittering
in a cinder-heap. Over-production, the crying vice of the literature of the day, and an over-weening
conceit, prevented Honoré de Balzac from maintaining the position he might and ought to have
occupied. Such gems as the "Père Goriot" and "Eugenie Grandet" were buried and lost sight of
under mountains of rubbish. True that he now denied a number of books published under supposititious
names, and which had been universally attributed to him; but enough remained, which he could
not deny, to tarnish, if not to cancel his fame. To these he has since, with the reckless and
inconsiderate greed that cares not for the public, so long as it finds a publisher, considerably
added. His self-sufficiency is unparalleled; and in the preface to an edition of his works
published under the comprehensive and presumptuous title of "La Comédie Humaine," he puts himself
on a level with the first of poets and philosophers, proposing himself the modest aim of portraying
human nature in every variety of its moral physiognomy.

Less prolific, more unassuming, and far less universally known than the three authors at whose
character and writings we have thus briefly glanced, Charles de Bernard need fear comparison
with none of them. That he is faultless we do not assert; that he in great measure eschews
the errors of his contemporaries, will be patent to all who peruse his pages. The objections
that English readers will make to his books are to be traced to no aberrations of his, but
to those of the society whose follies he so ably and wittily depicts. He faithfully sketches,
and more often amusingly caricatures, the vices, foibles, and failings of French men and women.
If those are to be delineated at all--and, with a view to their amendment, surely they may--the
task could hardly be executed with a chaster and less offensive pencil. De Bernard paints immorality--it
would be unjust to say that he encourages it. He neither deals in highly-coloured and meretricious
scenes à la Sue and Dumas; nor supports, with the diabolical talent and ingenuity of a Sand,
the most subversive and anti-social doctrines. His works are not befouled with filth and obscenity,
such as that impure old reprobate Paul de Kock delights and wallows in--or disgraced by the
irreligion, and contempt of things holy, found in the writings of scores of French authors
whom we could name, were they worth the naming. It is undeniable that the ingenious plots of
his very entertaining books turn, for the most part, on matters difficult to touch upon with
propriety, and which English writers usually avoid; frequently, for instance, on illicit passion
and conjugal infidelity. And therefore many Englishmen, with whatever interest and amusement
they themselves might read his volumes, would hesitate to recommend them to their sisters and
daughters. Some few of his tales, especially of the shorter ones, are in all respects unexceptionable.
We instance "La Peau du Lion," translated as "The Cossack's Grave;" and "L'Anneau d'Argent,"
which has also appeared in English. Gerfaut, one of this author's earliest works, and unquestionably
his masterpiece, has little that can justly offend, although its translation met, we believe,
a cold reception. The plot turns on an attachment between a married woman and the hero of the
story. But if M. de Bernard falls readily enough into the easy, matter-of-course tone in which
his countrymen habitually discuss amatory peccadilloes--and he could hardly have attained his
present popularity in France had he assumed the prude--he does not disdain or neglect to point
a moral after his own fashion. In administering a remedy, a wise physician has regard to the
idiosyncrasy of the patient as well as to the nature of the disease. A nation whose morality
is unhealthy, must not be treated like a sick horse, whose groom crams a ball down his throat,
and holds his jaws together, and his head back, to prevent its rejection. The dose must be
artfully disguised, wrapped in a sweetmeat, and the invalid will take it kindly, and sooner
or later feel the benefit. We would fain discern, in some of M. de Bernard's books, under a
perfumed envelope of palatable trifle, a tendency worthy of applause; a design to combat, by
quiet and implied ridicule, the moral maladies of his country. It is not his wont, as with
many of his competitors, to make the vicious interesting and the virtuous fools. His husbands
are not invariably good-natured, helpless noodles, with whom, even in their direst calamities,
the most right-thinking have difficulty to sympathise: the Lovelaces who pursue married women
with their insidious and dangerous attentions, are not by him for ever exalted into heroes,
redeeming their pleasant vices by a host of high and chivalrous qualities. On the contrary,
the apparently easy-going husband often proves a smart fellow, and thorough Tartar--the brilliant
lover an emancipated bagman, or contemptible chevalier d'industrie. Of this we have an example
in "Le Gendre," in some respects one of the most objectionable of De Bernard's novels, certainly
not well suited for a birth-day present to misses in their teens. A seemingly tame, insipid
clown of a husband counteracts the base manoeuvres of a dashing Paris roué; and finally, after
refusing to fight the would-be seducer, whom he has ascertained to be an arrant swindler, takes
truncheon in hand, and belabours him in presence of his intended victim and of a roomful of
company. But setting aside any moral tendency which goodwill towards such a vastly pleasant
author as De Bernard may induce us, by the aid of our most complaisant spectacles, to discover
in his writings, his gentlemanly tone is undeniable, his pictures of French life, especially
in Paris, are beyond praise. In the most natural and graphic style imaginable, he dashes off
a portrait typifying a class, and in a page gives the value of a volume of the much-vaunted
"Physiologies." And this he does, like all he does, in a sparkling, well-bred, impertinent
style, peculiar to himself, and peculiarly attractive.

We have already remarked, that M. de Bernard has written little. The assertion was comparative;
we meant that he has produced, since the commencement of his literary career--not yet very
remote--an average of only three or four volumes per year. This rate, in days when French scribes
carry on five romances at a time, in the daily feuilletons of five newspapers, and when certain
English authors, emulous of Gallic fecundity, annually conceive and elaborate their dozen or
two of octavos--says little for his industry, or much for his judicious forbearance. Latterly,
however, we regret to observe in him a disposition to increase the length of his books, and
abandon the pleasant one, two, and three volume tales with which he began. In this he is wrong;
books of so very light a description as his will not bear great prolongation. Things agreeable
enough in small quantities, pall and cloy if the ration be overmuch augmented. However fragrant
and well-spiced, syllabub is not to be drunk by the bucketful; neither would it be satisfactory
to dine off a soufflé au marasquin, though compounded by the philanthropical Regenerator himself.
In England, custom has decided that three volumes are the proper length for a novel, and they
have become, as a maximum, a rule rarely departed from. We are content that it should be so,
and, indeed, heartily rejoice at it, when we see works of fiction spun out by indefatigable
French manufacturers into interminable series, through which, at twelve hours a-day, the most
insatiable devourer of the romantic needs a month to toil. Following the fashion of the times,
and encouraged by the example of his successfully diffuse brethren, M. de Bernard, weary of
launching trim corvettes and dashing frigates, has taken to build line-of-battle ships. He
had better have kept to the small craft, which he found to float so well. Two of his recent
works, "Le Beaupère," and "Le Gentilhomme Campagnard," have lost in merit what they have gained
in length. The subject of the former is most unpleasant: its catastrophe unnecessarily painful.
And the "Gentilhomme Campagnard," just now concluded, although containing, as do all his books,
much spirited dialogue, many well-drawn characters, and well-contrived incidents, is weakened
by being spun out, and at times, by its tediousness of detail, reminds us of De Balzac. And
here we will remark, that there is a certain general resemblance between the styles of De Bernard
and De Balzac; so much so, that when the former first wrote, some persons conjectured his name
to be a pseudonyme adopted by the latter, to the detriment of publishers, to whom, it was said,
he had contracted to deliver all he should produce. And the malignant hinted, that the author
of "Eugenie Grandet" was sufficiently unscrupulous and hungry of gain to render such a stratagem
on his part any thing but improbable. Whether Charles de Bernard be an assumed name or not,
it has long since been evident, that the books published under it proceed from a more guarded
and uniformly sprightly pen, than that of M. de Balzac.

The plot of the "Gentilhomme Campagnard," is based on the dissensions of two villages, or more
properly speaking, of a hamlet and a very small town, situated within a mile of each other,
and which had once constituted two separate parishes, but had been amalgamated at the revolution
of '89, greatly to the detriment and indignation of the weaker party. It is in 1836 that M.
de Bernard takes up the imaginary history of their jealousy and squabbles, as a canvass on
which to embroider the flowers of his invention. The hamlet, Châteaugiron-le-Vieil, is inhabited,
and virtually governed, by the Gentilhomme Campagnard, the Baron de Vaudrey--a retired colonel
of cuirassiers, whose services under the empire do not prevent his stanch adherence, under
the citizen monarchy of July, to the legitimate and exiled sovereigns of France. His nephew,
the Marquis of Châteaugiron, less addicted to the fallen Bourbons, arrives, at the opening
of the tale, at his family mansion in Châteaugiron-le-Bourg, with certain electioneering projects,
highly displeasing to the baron, who resolves vigorously to oppose them, and accordingly gives
the whole weight of his influence to a neighbouring iron-master, M. Grandperrin, also a candidate.
The iron-master has married a second wife, a heartless vindictive woman, and former mistress
of the marquis. She plays an important part in the clever plot, which, although complicated,
is perfectly clear. To sketch at any length even the principal of the numerous characters in
the amusing comedy, would lead us much too far; we can barely afford to glance at a few of
them. On the foremost line--after the Gentilhomme Campagnard himself, a fine, generous-hearted
veteran, an excellent compound of the soldier and the nobleman, possessed of great good sense
and shrewdness, and altogether one of those personages of whom, whether real or imaginary,
one reads with pleasure--stands Madame Bonvalot, or de Bonvalot, as she best loves to be styled,
the parvenue widow of a Bordeaux wine merchant. Her beautiful and amiable daughter, an excellent
model of a virtuous French lady, gracefully and delicately drawn, is married to the Marquis
of Châteaugiron. The mother, an affected, frivolous, rouged, bejewelled dowager of fifty, who,
through ambition to figure at the Tuileries, has extorted from her noble son-in-law a promise
that he will adhere to the new order of things, is followed from Paris by one Pichot, ex-clerk
to a notary, also a former lover of Madame Grandperrin, and self-styled Viscount de Langerac.
This fortune-hunter has managed to worm himself into the intimacy of the marquis, and to kindle,
in the too-susceptible breast of Madame Bouvalot, a tender flame, which he diligently fans.
Then we have a young country-lawyer, Froidevaux, an honest, independent fellow, and desperate
sportsman, who gives advice gratis, thinks more of partridges than parchments, prefers a day's
shooting to a profitable lawsuit, and is consequently as poor as he is popular, and, to all
appearance, has very little chance of obtaining the hand of Mademoiselle Victorine, the iron-master's
only daughter and heiress, a plump little beauty, who views Froidevaux with special favour
and affection, and with whom he is deeply in love. Amongst the personages of a lower class,
the most prominent is Toussaint Gilles, landlord of the Cheval Patriote, and son of one of
the revolutionary butchers of the Reign of Terror; a furious republican, who wears a carmagnole
and a red cap, inherits his father's hatred of the vile aristocrats, and prides himself on
his principles, and on a truculent and immeasurable mustache. Amoudru, a pusillanimous mayor;
Bobilier, a fiery old justice of the peace, and devoted vassal of the house of Châteaugiron;
and Rabusson, once a sergeant in M. de Vaudrey's regiment, now his game-keeper, must not be
forgotten. A festival got up by Bobilier to celebrate the marquis's arrival at the castle of
his ancestors, stirs the bile of Toussaint Gilles, who sees in it a base adulation of the çi-devants.
As president of the republican club of Châteaugiron-le-Bourg, he, on the following day, incites
a few discontented spirits to a popular demonstration, to consist in burning down the triumphal
arch erected by the servile justice of peace, and in hoisting a brand-new tricolored flag on
the tree of liberty--a poplar planted, during the glorious days of July, close to the gate
of the marquis's château, but which had long since withered into a dry and unsightly maypole.
A number of bad characters mingle in the crowd, and the demonstration assumes a more turbulent
and criminal aspect than its original promoters had contemplated. The outer gate of the château
is forced, and stones are thrown, one of which grazes the cheek of the Viscount de Langerac,
who receives the wound, so he affirms, whilst heroically interposing his person between Madame
de Bonvalot and the shower of missiles. At last the marquis arms his servants, and repels the
rioters, already frightened at their own deeds; the justice of peace menaces them with the
assizes, Froidevaux exerts his influence, and the disturbance is nearly at an end, when the
flames communicate from the triumphal arch to the tree of liberty. Toussaint Gilles, as captain
of the firemen, hurries to extinguish the conflagration that menaces the flag-staff, on whose
summit Picardet the blacksmith, another zealous member of the democratic club, is busy fastening
the tricolored symbol of freedom. The following scene, one of the most detachable in the book,
will give a notion of M. de Bernard's lively and pointed style.

"The by-standers, whether firemen or not, hurried after the captain to a shed adjoining the
Town-hall. Some of them harnessed themselves to the engine, and dragged it at full speed to
the scene of the fire; others seized the buckets, and hastened to fill them; soon a line was
formed from the well to the burning tree. Quickly as this was done, the progress of the flames
was still more rapid, and Picardet soon found his post untenable. On first perceiving the fire,
the smith had climbed, like a frightened cat, to the very top of the poplar, at risk of breaking
the tapering stem by the weight of his body; but the refuge was a very precarious one, for
the fire followed him, and he required wings to rise higher than the place he had attained.
Three expedients offered themselves to him; all equally unpleasant. To leap from the poplar--he
would inevitably break his neck; to slide down the blazing trunk--he would reach the ground
roasted; to wait till assistance reached him--would it arrive in time? If not immediate, the
tree would be on fire from bottom to top.

"Under such circumstances, the most intrepid might well hesitate, and Picardet, although naturally
brave, remained for a moment undecided; but when he saw the flag catch fire close to his feet,
he understood that delay was mortal, and heroically made up his mind. Relaxing his hold, he
glided with lightning velocity from top to bottom of the tree.

"At the very moment that the smith, blinded and suffocated by the smoke, his hair blazing like
the tail of a comet, his hands bleeding, and his clothes torn, rolled upon the ground, roaring
with pain, a stream of water, issuing from the engine, and directed by Toussaint Gilles, inundated
him from head to foot, time enough to save a part of his singed locks.

"'Now that Picardet is put out,' cried the captain of the firemen, 'save the tree of liberty!
Come, men! Steady, and with a will!'

"As he spoke, Toussaint Gilles levelled the flexible hose at the poplar, and his assistants
pumped vigorously; but before a single drop of water had reached its destination, the firemen
saw, with surprise and alarm, the engine rise under their hands, and fall heavily on one side,
deluging their legs with the whole of its contents. All eyes fixed themselves in astonishment
on M. de Vaudrey, who had fallen amongst them like a bomb, and whose herculean strength had
just performed this feat. The country gentleman was perfectly calm, but his complexion was
high, and his brow moist with perspiration, as if he had walked very fast. A few paces in his
rear stood the faithful Rabusson, motionless and in a martial attitude; in one hand he grasped
a knotted stick, more like a mace than a walking-cane; with the other he led Sultan, the baron's
enormous watch-dog.

"The stupified silence that ensued was at last broken by Toussaint Gilles.

"'What means this?' he demanded, his voice trembling with rage.

"'It is easy to understand,' coolly replied M. de Vaudrey.

"'Why have you upset our pump?'

"'To prevent your pumping.'

"'And why do you prevent our pumping?'

"'Because those who lighted the fire shall not put it out. It pleased you to see yonder wooden
columns burn, it pleases me to see the poplar blaze.'

"'Raise the pump,' said the captain to his men, with an imperious air. 'We will see who dares
upset it again.'

"'And we will see who dares raise it, when I forbid!' retorted the baron, calmly folding his
muscular arms across his vast chest.

"A murmur was heard; but nobody stirred.

"'Cowards!' cried Toussaint Gilles, with a furious glance at his friends; 'are you all afraid
of one man?'

"'In the first place, there are two of them,' said the prudent Laverdun to his neighbour, 'and
two who are worth ten; to say nothing of their monster of a dog, who demolishes a wolf with
a single bite.'

"'M. Toussaint Gilles,' said the baron, smiling ironically, 'when an officer gives an order,
and is not obeyed, do you know what he should do?'

"'I want none of your advice,' cried the captain of firemen, in a brutal tone.

"'He should execute his order himself,' said M. de Vaudrey with immovable calmness.

"'So I will,' said Toussaint Gilles, advancing roughly. But at the very moment that he stooped
to raise the engine, the baron grasped his collar, and compelled him to stand upright.

"'M. Toussaint Gilles,' he said, 'listen to me. You are a bad fellow, needing correction, and
I undertake to correct you.'

"'To correct me!' cried the captain, struggling, as ineffectually as a hare in the clutches
of an eagle, in the powerful grasp that restrained him.

"'He is strangling the captain! Help the captain!' exclaimed several of the spectators.

"But words were all the help they offered to their chief, so greatly were the boldest awed
by the colossal figure and well-known strength and courage of the old officer. Gautherot the
butcher, constitutionally brave and pugnacious, was the only one who went to his friend's assistance.
He rushed upon M. de Vaudrey, when Rabusson barred his passage.

"'One to one,' said the sergeant; 'if you want a thrashing, here am I.'

"'You've a dog, and a cudgel,' replied the butcher; 'I have only my fists.'

"'True.'

"With a generosity bordering on imprudence, Rabusson placed his heavy stick in the dog's mouth.

"'Keep that, Sultan,' said he imperatively, 'and don't stir.' Then turning to the butcher with
an air of defiance--

"'Now,' he said, 'are you ready?'

"'Ready,' replied Gautherot, putting himself on guard, with the steadiness of an experienced boxer.

"The circle which had formed round the baron and the captain, enlarged itself to leave space
for the new antagonists. After a few preliminary evolutions, Gautherot assumed the offensive.

"'Guard that,' he cried, dealing his adversary a blow that would have floored an ox. Rabusson
guarded it with his left arm, and repaid it with such a smashing hit in the face, that the
bold butcher rolled upon the ground, blood gushing from his nose and mouth.

"Although Gautherot had numerous friends amongst the rioters, and although he was then in some
sort their champion, a roar of laughter accompanied his overthrow, and all eyes were fixed
admiringly upon the conqueror. Popular favour, ever ready to abandon a falling hero, is rarely
withheld from him who triumphs.

"At this moment an unexpected incident increased the confusion of the stormy scene. Excited
by the shouts of the mob, and by the fight he had witnessed, Sultan forgot his orders, dropped
the club confided to his care, and without a bark or other notification of his intentions,
sprang furiously upon the person nearest him. This unlucky individual chanced to be Laverdun
the grocer.

"Under any circumstances, the honourable vice-president of the Châteaugiron club would have
been utterly unable to contend against a dog as big as a lion, and almost as formidable; but
on this occasion, attacked without warning, and petrified by fear, he did not even attempt
resistance. The consequence was, that in less than a second he lay upon the ground, pale as
death, and half strangled, by the side of his friend Gautherot, who, stunned by his fall, made
no attempt to rise.

"Whilst this occurred, M. de Vaudrey addressed the following admonition to Captain Toussaint
Gilles, who strove in vain to escape from his hands.

"'I well know, Mr Innkeeper, that you have long been in the habit of speaking against me and
my nephew, and hitherto I have treated your insolence with the contempt it merited. But though
I care nothing for your bark, I shall not allow you to bite. Bear this in mind: to-day I pardon
you, but if you value your mustaches and your ears, don't begin again.'

"So saying, M. de Vaudrey destroyed, by an irresistible shock, the equilibrium of Toussaint
Gilles, and hurled him to the ground to keep company with Gautherot and Laverdun.

"Of the five principal members of the club, three were thus humbled to the dust; the fourth,
singed like a fowl in preparation for the spit, was in no condition to show fight; Vermot,
the turbulent clerk of the justice of peace, who completed this political quintet, had long
since abandoned the field of battle. On beholding the discomfiture of their leaders, the rioters
stared at each other with a disconcerted air.

"'Messieurs les bourgeois de Châteaugiron,' said Monsieur de Vaudrey, looking round at the
crowd with a mixture of calm assurance and ironical contempt--'I thank you, in my nephew's
name, for having burned the absurd tree which obstructed the entrance to his château; you planted
it, and it was for you to destroy it.'

"'It was not done on purpose,' said a bystander, with great naiveté.

"'We will plant another,' cried a voice from the crowd.

"'In the same place?' asked the baron.

"'Yes, in the same place,' replied the voice.

"'Then I beg to be invited to the ceremony,' said M. de Vaudrey, with imperturbable phlegm;
'some of you seem to have very confused notions with regard to other people's property, and
I undertake to complete your education.'

"At that moment the poplar, into whose heart the flames had eaten, gave a loud crack, quivered
above the heads of the startled crowd, and broke in the middle. The lower half remained erect,
whilst the upper portion fell blazing upon the ruins of the triumphal arch, as, in a duel,
a desperately wounded combatant falls expiring upon the body of his slain foe.

"Toussaint Gilles, Gautherot, and Laverdun had all risen from their recumbent attitude, but
none of them showed a disposition to recommence the engagement. The butcher wiped his bleeding
muzzle with a cotton handkerchief, and seemed to count, with the end of his tongue, how many
teeth he had left; the grocer, pale as his own tallow candles, examined his throat with a trembling
hand, to make sure that the fangs of the terrible Sultan had not penetrated beyond the cravat;
finally, the Captain gnawed his mustache, but dared not manifest his fury otherwise."

This energetic interference of the baron and his two aid-de-camps, biped and quadruped, and
the fall of the tree of liberty, which the rioters, superstitious in spite of their republicanism,
look upon as a bad omen, put an end to the disturbance. The disaffected disperse, and M. de
Vaudrey enters his nephew's house, where an amusing scene occurs between him and Madame de
Bonvalot. Then come a robbery and a fire, and abundance of incidents--some tolerably new in
conception, all very pleasant in narration. The good sense, perspicacity and straightforward
dealing of the baron, subjugate every one. He unmasks the fictitious viscount, cures his nephew
of his electioneering ambition, and the painted dowager of her longing for an invite to the
Tuileries; and adopts Froidevaux--whose father had saved his life at Leipsic, and who has himself
picked the baron out of a burning house--as his son and heir, thus rendering him a suitable
husband for the pretty Victorine. The story ends, as all proper-behaved novels should end,
with the discomfiture of the wicked, and a prospect of many years of happiness for the virtuous.
In this agreeable perspective, Madame de Bonvalot is a sharer. Having, by the adoption of Froidevaux,
alienated the greater part of his fortune from his nephew's children, the baron is resolved
to secure them the reversion of their grandmother's ample jointure. But Madame de Bonvalot,
whose wrinkles are hidden by her rouge, forgets the half century that has passed over her head,
and hankers after matrimony. To preserve her from it, M. de Vaudrey commences a course of delicate
attentions, sufficiently marked to prevent her favouring other admirers, but duly regulated
by thermometer, and warranted never to rise to marrying point. And the fall of the curtain
leaves the humorous old soldier of fifty-five and the vain coquette of fifty, fairly embarked
upon the tepid and rose-coloured stream of flirtation; he quizzing her, she admiring him--she
thinking of her wedding, he only of her will. A new and ingenious idea, worthy of a French
novelist, and which, we apprehend, could by no possibility have occurred to any other.

We shall close this paper with a tale, appended, as make-weight, to the final volume of the
"Gentilhomme Campagnard", and whose brevity recommends it for extraction. It is too short and
slight to be a fair specimen of M. de Bernard's powers, but, as far as it goes, it is as witty
and amusing as any thing he has written. It is entitled--

A CONSULTATION.

Towards the beginning of last autumn, amongst a number of persons assembled in Doctor Magnian's
waiting room, sat a man of about forty years of age, fair complexioned, thin, pale, with a
slight stoop in his shoulders, and altogether of a weak and sickly aspect, that would have
convinced any one he was in the house of a physician. On his entrance, this person had established
himself in a corner with an uneasy air, and there waited until all the other patients had had
their consultations. When the last had departed, the master of the house approached him with
a friendly smile.

"Good morning, Bouchereau," said the doctor; "excuse me for making you wait; but my time belongs
in the first instance to the sick, and I trust you have no such claim on an early audience."

"The sufferings of the mind are worse than those of the body," said the pale man, with a stifled
sigh.

"What's the matter?" cried the doctor. "You look haggard and anxious. Surely Madame Bouchereau
is not ill?"

"My wife is in robust health," replied Bouchereau, smiling bitterly.

"Then what is the cause of your agitation? The mind, say you? If you do not speak, how am I
to tell what passes in yours? Come, how can I serve you?"

"My dear doctor," said the other, sitting down with a most dejected countenance, "we have known
each other for twenty years. I look upon you as my best friend, and in you I have unlimited
confidence."

"Well, well!" said the doctor--"enough of compliments."

"They are not compliments; I speak from my heart. And the strange confession I have resolved
to make to you will be sufficient proof of my esteem for your character."

"To the point!" cried Magnian impatiently.

"The fact is melancholy for me, and may even appear ridiculous. That is why I hesitate. Promise
me, in the first place, never to reveal what I am about to tell you."

"The secret of the confessional is as sacred for the physician as for the priest," said Doctor
Magnian gravely.

Bouchereau again sighed, bit his lips, and gazed up at the ceiling. "You know Pelletier?" he
at last said, looking piteously at his friend.

"The captain on the staff? Of course I do. Sanguine habit, short neck, more shoulders than
brains, organisation of a bull! I have always predicted he would die of apoplexy."

"Heaven fulfil your prophecy!"

"You astonish me! I thought you friends."

"Friends!" repeated Bouchereau, with mingled irony, and indignation.

"Que diantre! Speak out, or hold your tongue. I am no Oedipus to guess your riddle."

The impatience that sparkled in the doctor's eyes brought his doleful friend to the substance
of his intended confession.

"Well, my dear Magnian," said he, in an agitated voice, "in two words, here is the case: Pelletier
makes love to my wife."

To conceal a smile, the doctor protruded his under-lip, and nodded his head several times with
affected gravity.

"Who would have thought it?" he at last exclaimed. "I never suspected the great dragoon of
such good taste. But are you quite sure? Husbands are usually the last persons to discover
those things."

"I am only too sure; and you shall hear how. My wife is at Fontainbleau, passing a few days
with her mother. The day before yesterday I happened to remark that the key of my desk fitted
her drawers. Mechanically, I opened one of them, and in a sort of mysterious pigeon-hole I
found several letters from Pelletier."

"The deuce you did! But why open drawers belonging to your wife?"

"It is my right. Besides, do not judge hastily. From the tenor of the correspondence, I am
convinced Virginia's only fault is to have received the letters and concealed the fact from
me. I am pretty sure she has given the writer no encouragement, and I am therefore much less
angry with her than with Pelletier. Him I will never pardon. A man to whom I have thrown open
my house! an old comrade at Sainte Barbe! A friend, in short; at least I thought him so!"

"You forget that one is never betrayed but by one's friends."

"I called upon him yesterday."

"Ah!"

"I reproached him with his shameful conduct. Can you guess his answer?"

"He denied the fact."

"At first. But when I showed him his letters he saw it was useless to lie. 'My dear Bouchereau,'
he said, in his impertinent manner, 'since you know all about it, I will not take the trouble
to contradict you. It is perfectly true that I am in love with your wife; I have told her so
already, and I cannot promise you that I will not tell her so again, for very likely I should
not keep my promise. I perfectly understand my conduct may be disagreeable to you, but you
know I am too much the gentleman not to accept the responsibility of my acts and deeds. And
if you feel offended, I am at your orders, ready to give you satisfaction, when, where, and
how you like.'"

"Very cool indeed!" said the physician, struggling violently to keep his countenance. "What!
he had the effrontery to tell you that?"

"Word for word."

"And what was your answer?"

"That he should hear from me shortly. Then I left him, deeming further discussion unbecoming.
And so the matter stands."

The Doctor looked grave. After walking once up and down the room, his eyes on the ground, his
hands behind his back, he returned to his visitor.

"What shall you do?" he said, looking him steadily in the face.

"What do you advise?"

"Such behaviour is very hard to put up with, but on the other hand, I should be sorry to see
you engaged in a duel with that bully Pelletier."

"A professed duellist," cried Bouchereau, his eyes opening wider and wider; "a man who passes
his mornings in the shooting gallery and fencing room, and has a duel regularly once a quarter!"

"And you," said the Doctor with a piercing look, "have you ever fought a duel?"

"Never," replied the married man, looking paler even than his wont; "not but that I have had
opportunities, but duelling is repugnant to my principles. The idea of shedding blood shocks
me; it is a barbarous custom, a monstrous anomaly in these civilised days."

"In short, you have no very strong desire to enter the lists?"

"Were I positively outraged, had I a mortal injury to revenge, the voice of passion would perhaps
drown that of humanity; for, in certain moments, the wisest man cannot answer for himself.
But in this instance, the affair not being so serious, if Pelletier, instead of affecting an
arrogant tone, had made the apology to which I think I have a right, and had promised to behave
better in future, then--all things considered--to avoid scandal--don't you think it would have
been possible and honourable--"

"Not to fight?" interrupted Magnian; "certainly. If you go out with Pelletier, ten to one that
he bleeds you like a barn-door fowl, and that would be unpleasant."

"Doctor, you misunderstand me."

"Not at all. And to prove the contrary, you shall not fight, and the Captain shall make you
a satisfactory apology. Is not that what you want?"

The Doctor's penetration called up a faint flush on the cheek of the lover of peace.

"Pelletier is a brute," resumed Magnian, as if speaking to himself. "Staff officers have generally
more breeding than that. To make love to the wife, well and good; but to defy the husband is
contrary to all the rules of polite society."

"You advise me, then, to let the matter be arranged?" said Bouchereau, in an insinuating tone.

"Certainly," replied the physician laughing, "and what is more, I undertake the negotiation.
I repeat my words: to-morrow Pelletier shall retract his provocation, make you a formal apology,
and swear never again to disturb your conjugal felicity. This is my share of the business;
the rest concerns you."

"The rest?"

"It is one thing to promise, another to perform. It would be prudent to facilitate the observance
of the Captain's vow by a little tour, which for a few months would remove Madame Bouchereau
from the immediate vicinity of this military Adonis. His duty keeps him at Paris; you are free.
Why not pass the winter in the South: at Nice, for instance?"

"It has already occurred to me that a short absence would be desirable, and I rejoice to find
you of my opinion. But why Nice, rather than any other town?"

"The climate is extremely salutary, especially for a person whose chest is rather delicate."

"But my chest is very strong,--at least I hope so," interrupted Bouchereau, in an uneasy tone,
and trying to read the Doctor's thoughts.

"Certainly; I say nothing to the contrary," replied Magnian gravely; "I have no particular
motive for my advice; but precautions never do harm, and it is easier to prevent than cure."

"You think me threatened with consumption!" cried Bouchereau, who, as has been shown, entertained
the warmest affection for Number One.

"I said nothing of the sort," replied the physician, as if reproaching himself for having said
too much. "If you want to know why I proposed Nice, I will tell you: it is from a selfish motive.
I shall probably pass part of this winter there, and my stay would be made very agreeable by
the society of yourself and Madame Bouchereau."

"Well, we will see; the thing may be arranged," replied Bouchereau. And he left the house,
more uneasy than he entered it; for to the apprehension of a duel was superadded the fear of
a dangerous disease, by which he had never before contemplated the possibility of his being
attacked.

At six o'clock that evening, Doctor Magnian entered the Café Anglais, where he made pretty
sure to find Pelletier. Nor was he mistaken; the gallant Captain was there, solitarily installed
at a little table, and dining very heartily, without putting water in his wine. He was a tall,
stout, vigorous fellow, square in the shoulder, narrow in the hip, with a bold keen eye, a
well-grown mustache, a high complexion, and a muscular arm; one of those men of martial mien
who would seem to have missed their vocation if they were not soldiers, and whose aspect inspires
the most presumptuous with a certain reserve and modesty. More doughty champions than the cadaverous
Bouchereau might have shrunk from an encounter with a lion of such formidable breed.

The physician and the officer saluted each other cordially, and after exchanging a few compliments,
took their dinner at different tables. They left the coffee-house at the same time, and meeting
at the door, walked arm in arm along the boulevard, in the direction of the Madeleine.

"Well, Doctor," said Pelletier jocosely, "have you found me what I have asked you for at least
ten times: a pretty woman--maid or widow, fair or dark, tall or short, all one to me--who will
consent to make me the happiest of men, by uniting her lot with mine? I ask only a hundred
thousand crowns: you must own I am modest in my expectations."

"Too modest! you are worth more than that."

"You are laughing at me?"

"Not at all; besides the moment would be ill chosen to jest, for I have a serious affair on
hand. Bouchereau has commissioned me to speak to you."

"And you call that a serious affair?" said the Captain, laughing scornfully.

"A matter that can only end in bloodshed, appears to me deserving of the epithet," said the
Doctor, with assumed gravity.

"Ah! M. Bouchereau thirsts for my blood?" cried Pelletier, laughing still louder; "hitherto,
I took him to be rather herbivorous than carniverous. And with what sauce does he propose to
eat me--sword or pistol?"

"He leaves you the choice of arms," replied M. Magnian, with imperturbable seriousness.

"It's all one to me. I told him so already. Let me see: to-morrow I breakfast with some of
my comrades; it is a sort of regimental feed, and I should not like to miss it, but the day
after to-morrow, I'm your man. Will that do?"

"Perfectly. The day after to-morrow, seven in the morning, at the entrance of the forest of
Vincennes."

"Agreed," said the Captain, familiarly slapping his companion's arm with his large brawny hand.
"So you meddle with duelling, Doctor? I should have thought a man of your profession would
have looked upon it as a dangerous competitor."

The physician replied to this very old joke, by a malicious smile, which he immediately repressed.

"At random you have touched me on the raw," he said, after a moment's silence. "Shall I tell
you the strange, I might say the monstrous idea that has just come into my head?"

"Pray do. I am rather partial to monstrous ideas."

"It occurred to me that for the interest of my reputation, I ought to wish the projected duel
to prove fatal to Bouchereau."

"Why so?" inquired the officer, with some surprise.

"Because if you don't kill him, in less than a year I shall have the credit of his death."

"I don't understand. Are you going to fight him?"

"Certainly not; but I am his physician, and as such, responsible for his existence in the eyes
of the vast number of persons who expect medical science to give sick men the health that nature
refuses them. Therefore, as Bouchereau, according to all appearance, has not a year to live----"

"What's the matter with him?" cried Pelletier, opening his great eyes.

"Consumption!" replied the Doctor, in a compassionate tone, "a chronic disease--quite incurable!
I was about sending him to Nice. We, physicians, as you know, when we have exhausted the resources
of medicine, send our patients to the waters or to the South. If nothing happens to him the
day after to-morrow, he shall set out: God knows if he will ever return."

"Consumptive! he who is always as sallow as Debureau."

"Complexion has nothing to do with it."

"And you think he is in danger?"

"I do not give him a year to live; perhaps not six months."

The two men walked some distance, silent and serious.

"Yes, Captain," said the Doctor, breaking the pause, "we may look upon Poor Bouchereau as a
dead man, even setting aside the risk he incurs from your good blade. Before twelve months
are past, his wife may think about a second husband. She will be a charming little widow, and
will not want for admirers."

Pelletier cast a sidelong look at his companion, but the Doctor's air of perfect simplicity
dispelled the suspicion his last words had awakened.

"If Bouchereau died, his wife would be rich?" said the Captain, musingly, but in an interrogative
tone.

"Peste!" replied Magnian, "you may say that. Not one hundred thousand, but two hundred thousand
crowns, at the very least."

"You exaggerate!" cried the Captain, his eyes suddenly sparkling.

"Easy to calculate," said Magnian confidently--"Madame Bouchereau inherited a hundred thousand
francs from her father, she will have a hundred and fifty thousand from her mother, and her
husband will leave her three hundred and fifty thousand more: add that up."

"Her husband's fortune is secured to her, then, by marriage contract?" inquired Pelletier,
who had listened with rapidly increasing interest to his companion's enumeration.

"Every sou," replied the physician, solemnly.

The two words were worth an hour's oration, and with a person whom he esteemed intelligent,
M. Magnian would not have added another. But, remembering that the Captain, as he had said
a few hours before, was more richly endowed with shoulders than with brains, he did not fear
to weigh a little heavily upon an idea from which he expected a magical result.

"For you," he jestingly resumed, "who have the bump of matrimony finely developed, here would
be a capital match. Young, pretty, amiable, and a fortune of six hundred thousand francs. Though,
to be sure, if you kill the husband, you can hardly expect to marry the widow."

Pelletier forced a laugh, which ill agreed with the thoughtful expression his physiognomy had
assumed; then he changed the conversation. Certain that he had attained his end, the Doctor
pleaded a professional visit, and left the Captain upon the boulevard, struck to the very heart
by the six hundred thousand francs of the future widow.

Without halt or pause, and with the furious velocity of a wounded wild-boar, Pelletier went,
without help of omnibus, from the Madeleine to the Bastille. When he reached the Porte St Martin,
his determination was already taken.

"Without knowing it," he thought, "the Doctor has given me excellent advice. Fight Bouchereau!
not so stupid. I should kill him; I am so unlucky! and then how could I reappear before Virginia?
The little coquette views me with no indifferent eye; and luckily I have made love to her for
the last three months, so that when the grand day comes, she cannot suppose I love her for
her money. Kill Bouchereau! that would be absurd. Let him die in his bed, the dear man--I shall
not prevent it. I shall have plenty of fighting with my rivals, as soon as his wife is a widow.
Six hundred thousand francs! They'll throng about her like bees round a honey-pot. But let
them take care; I'm first in the field, and not the man to let them walk over my body."

The following morning, long before the consultations had begun, the Captain strode into Magnian's
reception room.

"Doctor," said he, with military frankness, "what you said yesterday about Bouchereau's illness,
has made me seriously reflect. I cannot fight a man who has only six months to live. Suppose
I wound him: a hurt, of which another would get well, might be mortal to one in his state of
health; and then I should reproach myself, all my life, with having killed an old friend for
a mere trifle. Did he tell you the cause of our quarrel?"

"No," replied the Doctor, who, in his capacity of negotiator, thought himself at liberty to lie.

"A few hasty words," said Pelletier, deceived by Magnian's candid air; "in fact, I believe
I was in the wrong. You know I am very hasty; à propos of some trifle or other, I was rough
to poor Bouchereau, and now I am sorry for it. In short, I have had enough duels to be able
to avoid one without any body suspecting a white feather in my wing. So if you will advise
Bouchereau to let the matter drop, I give you carte blanche. Between ourselves, I think he
will not be sorry for it."

"You may find yourself mistaken, Captain," replied the Doctor, with admirable seriousness;
"yesterday Bouchereau was much exasperated: although of peaceable habits, he is a perfect tiger
when his blood is up. It appears that you hurt his feelings, and unless you make a formal apology----"

"Well, well," interrupted Pelletier, "it is not much in my way to apologise, and this is the
first time; but with an old friend, I will stretch a point. I would rather make concessions
than have to reproach myself hereafter. Shall we go to Bouchereau?"

"Let us go," said the Doctor, who could hardly help smiling to see how the voice of interest
instilled sensibility and humanity into the heart of a professed duellist.

When Magnian and the officer entered his drawing-room, Bouchereau, who had not shut his eyes
the whole night, experienced all the sensations of the criminal to whom sentence of death is
read. But the first words spoken restored fluidity to his blood, for a moment frozen in his
veins. The Captain made the most explicit and formal apology, and retired after shaking the
hand of his old friend, who, overjoyed at his escape, did not show himself very exacting.

"Doctor, you are a sorcerer!" cried Bouchereau, as soon as he found himself alone with the
physician.

"It is almost part of my profession," replied Magnian laughing. "However, the terrible affair
is nearly arranged. I have done my share; do yours. When shall you set out for the south?"

The satisfaction depicted on Bouchereau's physiognomy vanished, and was replaced by sombre anxiety.

"Doctor," said he, in an altered voice, "You must tell me the truth; I have resolution to hear
my sentence with calmness; my chest is attacked, is it not?"

"You mean your head."

"My head also!" cried Bouchereau, positively green with terror.

"You are mad," said the Doctor, shrugging his shoulders; "I would willingly change my chest
for yours."

"You deceive me. I cannot forget what escaped you yesterday. I coughed all night long, and
I have a pain between my shoulders which I never perceived before."

"All fancy!"

"I feel what I feel," continued Bouchereau gloomily; "I do not fear death; but I confess that
I could not, without regret, bid an eternal adieu, in the prime of life, to my wife and family.
It is my duty to be cautious for their sake, if not for my own. Instead of writing to Virginia
to return home, I will join her at Fontainbleau, and start at once for Nice."

"Go," said the doctor, "the journey cannot hurt you."

"But do you think it will benefit me?"

"Without a doubt."

"It is not too late, then, to combat this frightful malady."

"Oh, you are not very far gone," said Magnian ironically. "I shall be at Nice myself in less
than six weeks, so that you are sure to be attended by a physician in whom you have confidence,
if, contrary to all probability, your state of health requires it."

The two friends parted: the Doctor laughing at his patient's fears, the patient imagining himself
in imminent peril, and almost doubting whether it would not have been better to fall by the
terrible sword of Captain Pelletier than to linger and expire, in the flower of his age, upon
an inhospitable foreign shore. In two days, Bouchereau, haunted by his funereal visions, had
taken out his passport, arranged his affairs, and completed his preparations. Getting into
a post-chaise, he made his unexpected appearance at Fontainbleau; and, exerting his marital
authority to an extent he had never previously ventured upon, he carried off his wife, stupified
by such a sudden decision, and greatly vexed to leave Paris, which Pelletier's languishing
epistles had lately made her find an unusually agreeable residence. By the end of the week,
the husband and wife, one trembling for his life, the other regretting her admirer, arrived
at Nice, where, towards the close of the autumn, they were joined by Dr Magnian, who thus showed
himself scrupulously exact in the fulfilment of his promise.

On an evening of the month of April following, the tragedy of Les Horaces was performed at
the Théâtre Français. Thanks to the young talent of Mademoiselle Rachel, rather than to the
old genius of Corneille, the house was crowded. In the centre of the right-hand balcony, Captain
Pelletier, accompanied by some blusterers of the same kidney, talked loud, laughed ditto, criticised
the actors and spectators, and disturbed all his neighbours, without any one venturing to call
him to order; so powerful, in certain cases, is the influence of an insolent look, a ferocious
mustache, and an elephantine build.

After examining with his opera glass every corner of the theatre, from the pit to the roof,
the Captain at last caught sight of a group, snugly installed in a comfortable box, which at
once fixed his attention. It consisted of Monsieur and Madame Bouchereau, in front, and of
Doctor Magnian, seated behind the lady. The appearance and attitude of these three persons
were characteristic. With his usual pallid complexion and unhappy look, his eyes adorned with
a pair of blue spectacles--a new embellishment, which he owed to an imaginary ophthalmia--the
pacific husband whiled away the entr'acte by the study of a play-bill, which he abandoned when
the curtain rose, to bestow his deepest attention on the actors, even though none but the inferior
characters were on the stage. Madame Bouchereau trifled with an elegant nosegay, whose perfume
she frequently inhaled, and whose crimson flowers contrasted so well with the fairness of her
complexion, as to justify a suspicion that there was some coquetry in the manoeuvre executed
with such apparent negligence. Leaning back in her chair, she frequently turned her head, the
better to hear Magnian's smiling and half-whispered remarks. The husband paid no attention
to their conversation, and did not seem to remark its intimate and confidential character.

"Who is it you have been looking at for the last quarter of an hour?" inquired one of the Captain's
comrades. "At your old flame, Madame Bouchereau? I thought you had forgotten her long ago."

"I did not know she had returned from Nice," replied Pelletier, with a reserved air.

"She has been at Paris a fort-night."

"Does not Bouchereau look very ill? The southern climate has not done him much good. He is
twice as pale as before he went. Poor Bouchereau!"

"Ha! ha!" laughed the officer, "have you been gulled by the story of the decline? That is really
too good."

"What is too good?" asked the Captain abruptly.

"The trick that rogue Magnian played Bouchereau and you; for if I may judge from your astonished
look, you also have been mystified."

"Berton, you abuse my patience," said Pelletier in a surly tone.

"Wolves do not eat one another," replied Berton laughing; "so let us talk without anger. The
story is this:--all Paris, except yourself, has been laughing at it for a week past. It appears
that on the one hand, although no one suspected it, the aforesaid Magnian was in love with
Madame Bouchereau, and that on the other, finding himself threatened with a pulmonary complaint,
he thought it advisable to pass the winter in a warm climate. What did the arch-schemer? He
persuaded Bouchereau that it was he, Bouchereau, whose chest was affected; sent him off to
Nice with his pretty wife, and, at his leisure, without haste or hurry, joined them there.
You have only to look at them, as they sit yonder, to guess the denoûement of the history.
The appropriate label for their box would be the title of one of Paul de Kock's last novels;
la Femme, le Mari, el l'Amant. Magnian is a cunning dog, and has very ingenious ideas. Fearing,
doubtless, that the husband might be too clear-sighted, he threatened him with an ophthalmia,
and made him wear blue spectacles. Clever, wasn't it? and a capital story?"

"Charming, delightful!" cried the Captain, with a smile that resembled a gnashing of teeth.

The tragedy was over. Dr Magnian left his box; Pelletier followed his example. The next minute
the two men met in the lobby.

"Doctor, a word with you," said the officer sternly.

"Two, if you like, Captain," was Magnian's jovial reply.

"It appears, that in spite of your prognostics, Bouchereau is in perfect health."

"Voudriez-vous qu'il mourût? Would you have him die?" said the Doctor, parodying with a comical
emphasis the delivery of Joanny, who had taken the part of the father of the Horatii.

"I know you are excellent at a joke," retorted Pelletier, whose vexation was rapidly turning
to anger; "but you know that I am not accustomed to serve as a butt. Be good enough to speak
seriously. Is it true that Bouchereau was never in danger?"

"In great danger, on the contrary. Was he not about fighting you?"

"So that when you sent him to Nice----?"

"It was to prevent the duel. As a physician, I watch over the health of my clients; and it
was my duty to preserve Bouchereau from your sword, which is said to be a terrible malady."

"One of which you will perhaps have to cure yourself before very long," exclaimed the Captain,
completely exasperated by the Doctor's coolness. "The idiot Bouchereau may die of fear, or
of any thing else. I certainly shall not do him the honour to meddle with him; but you, my
friend, so skilled in sharp jests, I shall be glad to see if your valour equals your wit."

The part of an unfortunate and mystified rival is so humiliating, that Pelletier's vanity prevented
his stating his real ground of complaint, and mentioning the name of Madame Bouchereau. The
Doctor imitated his reserve, and listened to the officer's defiance with the same tranquil
smile which had previously played upon his countenance.

"My dear Captain," he said, "at this moment you would particularly like to pass your good sword
through my body, or to lodge a ball in my leg--for, in consideration of our old friendship,
I presume you would spare my head. You shall have the opportunity, if you positively insist
upon it. But if you kill me, who will arrange your marriage with Mademoiselle Nanteuil?"

Pelletier stared at his adversary with an astonished look, which redoubled the Doctor's good
humour.

"Who is Mademoiselle Nanteuil?" he at last said, his voice involuntarily softening.

"An amiable heiress whom I attend, although she is in perfect health; who has two hundred thousand
francs in possession, as much more in perspective, and who, if an intelligent friend undertook
the negotiation, would consent, I think, to bestow her hand and fortune upon a good-looking
fellow like yourself."

"Confound this Magnian!" said the Captain, taking the Doctor's arm, "it is impossible to be
angry with him."

FOOTNOTES:

[8] It is pretty generally known--even to those to whom it has not been granted to stand in
the imposing presence of our fast friend and ancient ally, Monsieur Alexandre Dumas--that there
is a slight tinge of black in the blood of that greatest of French romanciers, past, present,
or to come. In connexion with the fact, we will cite an anecdote:--

A person more remarkable for inquisitiveness than for correct breeding--one of those who, devoid
of delicacy and reckless of rebuffs, pry into every thing--took the liberty to question M.
Dumas rather closely concerning his genealogical tree.

"You are a quadroon, M. Dumas?" he began.

The father of Alexander Dumas, the republican general of the same name, was a mulatto, born
in St Domingo, the son of a negress and of the white Marquis de la Pailleterie. By what legitimatizing
process the bend sinister was erased, and the marquisate preserved, we have hitherto been unable
to ascertain.

BELISARIUS,--WAS HE BLIND?

The name of Belisarius is more generally known through the medium of the novel, the opera,
and the print-shop than by the pages of history. Procopius, Gibbon, and Lord Mahon have done
less for his universal popularity than some unknown Greek romancer or ballad-singer in the
middle ages. Our ideas of the hero are involuntarily connected with the figure of a tall old
man, clad in a ragged mantle, with a stout staff in his left hand, and a platter to receive
an obolus in his right, accompanied by a fair boy grasping his tattered garments, and carefully
guiding his steps.

We shall now venture to investigate the relationship between the Belisarius of romance, and
the Belisarius of history; and we believe we shall be able to prove that the historical hero
died in full possession of his sight several centuries before the birth of his blind namesake,
the hero of romance; that he was not more directly related to the unfortunate sufferer, than
our disreputable acquaintance Don Juan of the opera, was to the gallant and presumptuous Don
Juan of Austria, the hero of Lepanto; and that in short, as we say in Scotland, there was no
connexion but the name. In this case, however, the connexion has proved a pretty close one;
for a noble, accomplished and accurate English historian, Lord Mahon, in his "Life of Belisarius"
has considered it strong enough to advance a plea of identity between the warrior of history
and the beggar of romance.

Such an authority renders the labour of brushing the dust from a few volumes of Byzantine Chronicles
to us "a not ungrateful task;" and one that we hope will not prove entirely without interest
to our readers. Our object is to re-establish the truth of history, and to restore to some
Greek Walter Scott of the middle ages the whole merit of constructing an immortal tale, which
for centuries has tinged the stern annals of the Eastern empire with an unwonted colouring
of pathos. Lord Mahon has so fairly stated his case, that we believe his candour has laid criticism
to sleep, and his readers have generally adopted his opinions.

The truth is, the Belisarius of history, the bold and splendid general of Justinian, is a hero
of the Roman empire, of the Eastern or Byzantine empire, if you please, but still historically
a Roman hero. Now, on the other hand, the Belisarius of romance, the vision of a noble victim
of imperial ingratitude, is a creation of Greek genius, of modern Greek genius, if you prefer
adding the depreciating epithet, but still of Greek genius placed in its undying opposition
to Roman power.

We must now introduce to our readers the Belisarius of history as he really lived, acted, and
suffered. It is not necessary for this purpose to recite his military exploits. They are described
in the immortal pages of Gibbon, and minutely detailed in the accurate biography by Lord Mahon.
It will suffice for our purpose to collect a few authentic sketches of his personal conduct
and character, and some anecdotes of his style of living, from the works of his secretary Procopius,
the last classic Greek writer, and an historian of no mean merit.

Belisarius was born in the city of Germania, a metropolitan see on the frontiers of the Thracian
and Illyrian nations.[9] Thus, though strictly speaking he was neither a Roman nor a Greek,
he considered himself, and was considered by his contemporaries, a Roman. The dialect of the
inhabitants of Thrace and Illyria is supposed still to possess a representative in the modern
Albanian; but in the time of Justinian, the language of the higher classes in the cities was
Latin, and there can be no doubt that Belisarius spoke both Latin and Greek with equal fluency.
As far as race was concerned, it seems, however, tolerably certain, that he was more closely
allied in blood to Scanderberg and Miaoulis than to Scipio or Epaminondas. As he was a man
of rank and family, he became an officer of the imperial guard at an early age.[10] His tall
and vigorous frame, smooth and handsome face, joined to a smoother tongue, a calm and equable
disposition, and a stout heart, made him the very man to rise rapidly in the Roman service.
Accordingly, as early as the year 526, he appears in a high military command.[11] Like Marlborough,
to whom he bears some resemblance in personal character, he strengthened his position at court
by marrying the Lady Antonina, the beautiful favourite of the Empress Theodora, though she
was as fierce a shrew as the Duchess Sarah, and wherewithal not so modest, if we give credit
to her husband's secretary.

It was the fashion at the Horse-guards of Constantinople during the reign of Justinian, to
encourage barbarian usages in military affairs. Hussars from the country of the Gepids, cuirassiers
from Armenia and the ancient seats of the Goths, and light cavalry from the regions occupied
by the Huns, were the favourite bodies of troops. The young nobles of the Roman empire adopted
the uniforms of these regiments; wore long hair, inlaid armour, and tight nether garments,
and never condescended to invest their persons in the modest equipments of the old Roman dragoons,
or of the modern legionaries whose ranks were officered by mere provincials.

The reasons which compelled the imperial government to prefer foreign mercenaries to native
troops were based at first on principles of internal policy, and at last on absolute necessity.
Augustus feared the Roman senators and knights; Constantine had not the means of paying for
good Roman soldiers; and Justinian could not have found a sufficient number of suitable recruits
among the citizens of his wide-extended empire. The pivot of the administration of Imperial
Rome, as of Imperial Britain, was the treasury, not the Horse-guards. The taxes paid by the
citizens filled that treasury: but a soldier was exempt from taxation; consequently, it became
a measure of unavoidable necessity on the part of the Roman government to prevent citizens
escaping their financial burdens by becoming soldiers. Had the citizens got possession of arms,
Rome could not have remained a despotism.

On the other hand, the system of Roman tactics rendered it necessary to procure military recruits
of a degree of physical strength far above the average standard of mankind. When the population
of the empire had been divided into two widely separated social classes of wealthy citizens
and poor cultivators, serfs, or slaves, the supply of recruits furnished by the richest portions
of the empire became very small. The danger of employing foreign barbarians, who remained isolated
amidst an innumerable population, and surrounded by hundreds of walled towns, manned by their
own municipal guards, was evidently less than that of entrusting legions of slaves with arms,
and teaching them habits of combination and discipline. The servile wars, which inflicted a
mortal wound on the Republic, would have been renewed, and would probably have soon destroyed
the Empire.[12]

It is customary with historians to discourse on the impolicy of the Roman emperors in employing
barbarian mercenaries; but the fact is, that their finances did not admit of their purchasing
the thews and sinews required for the service any where but among the barbarians. The system
certainly answered admirably for the imperial government. It upheld the tyranny of the Cæsars
and the terror of the Roman arms for more than a thousand years; and it might have rendered
Rome immortal had she not committed suicide.

If the system really be so bad as it is often represented, it seems strange that it should
have been adopted with all its imperfections in British India. But the truth is this; the mercenaries
of the Roman armies were more faithful to their contract than the emperors. It is by sovereigns
and ministers of state, not by generals of mercenaries, that empires are prepared for destruction.
Our Indian empire is always in greater danger from a conceited Foreign secretary or a foolish
Governor-general than from a rebellion of the native troops. If our administration be only
as wise as that of Imperial Rome, somewhat more just, and a great deal less avaricious, there
seems no reason why a British government should rule at Calcutta for a shorter period than
a Roman one at Constantinople. The laws of Rome still survive in the courts of justice of the
greater part of Europe; the spirit of the Roman Republic breathes, at the present hour, in
full energy in the Papal councils; and are we to suppose that the institutions of a more Catholic
philanthropy, in the progress of development under the British constitution, are less capable
of acquiring an inherent vitality?

The age of Belisarius was deeply imbued with the military spirit of the middle ages; and Belisarius
was himself as proud of his accomplishments as a daring horseman, a good lance, and a stout
bowman, as of his military science. Cavalry was the favourite portion of the army in his day,
and he shared in the general contempt felt for infantry. The horsemen were sheathed in complete
steel; and their helmets, breast-plates and shields, were impenetrable even to the shafts of
the Persians, who drew their bow-strings to the right ear, and threw discredit on the prowess
of the Homeric archers.[13] The Roman officers, as must always be the case where cavalry is
the principal arm, were remarkable for personal courage and impetuous daring; and perhaps in
the whole annals of Rome there cannot be found another period in which headlong rashness was
so universally the characteristic of the generals of the Roman armies.

The favourite position of Belisarius on the field of battle was to figure like Richard Coeur-de-Lion
as a colonel of cuirassiers, not like Marlborough, to perform the duties of a commander-in-chief.
Procopius prefaces an account of one of his rashest combats by declaring that he was not in
the habit of exposing himself unnecessarily, but on the occasion in question, he owns that
Belisarius fought too much like a mere soldier in the front rank.

The whole Gothic army advancing to besiege Rome had passed the Tiber before Belisarius was
aware that his troops, stationed to defend the Milvian bridge, had abandoned their post. On
going out to reconnoitre, he fell in with the enemy. Instead of retreating, he led on the cavalry
that attended him to the charge. He was mounted on his favourite charger; the Greeks called
it Phalion, the barbarians Balan, from its colour: it was a bay with a white face. Balan was
perfectly broken to his hand, and his armour, wrought by the skill of Byzantine artists, was
too light to incommode his powerful frame, yet tempered to resist the best-directed arrow or
javelin. The person of Belisarius was soon recognised in the Gothic army, and the shout spread
far and wide to the javelin-men and the archers, "At the bay horse! At the bay horse!" The
bravest of the Gothic chiefs placed their lances in rest, and rushed forward to bear down the
Roman general. The guards of Belisarius, in that trying hour, showed themselves worthy of their
own and, their general's fame. They closed up by his side, so well as to leave him only a single
enemy. It is ridiculous to attempt describing a personal encounter thirteen centuries after
the event. The duties of Procopius did not place him at the elbow of Belisarius at such an
hour, and even if he had been there he could have seen but little of what others were about.

The result of the encounter is matter of history. A thousand Goths fell in the skirmish, and
the bravest of the veteran guards of Belisarius perished by his side. The barbarians were driven
back to their camp; but when Belisarius imprudently followed them, he was repulsed by the Gothic
infantry forming before the lines, and the Romans were compelled to make a precipitate retreat.
They galloped back to the gates of Rome closely pursued by fresh squadrons of Gothic cavalry.
But as they reached the walls in disorder, the garrison refused to open the gates, fearing
lest the Goths might force their way into the city with the fugitives, and believing that Belisarius
had perished in the battle. There was now nothing left for the commander-in-chief but to form
a small squadron of his faithful guards, and make a desperate and sudden charge on the advancing
Goths. The manoeuvre was executed with consummate skill, and the leading ranks of the enemy
were broken, thrown into confusion, and forced back on the succeeding squadrons by the impetuous
charge. The cry spread that the garrison had made a sally; the obscurity of evening was commencing,
the Goths commenced their retreat; and Belisarius and his wearied troops were at last allowed
to enter Rome. In this desperate encounter, their respective enemies allowed that Belisarius
was the bravest of the Romans, and Wisand of the Goths. The Roman general escaped without a
wound, but the valiant Goth, borne down in the combat around the person of Belisarius, was
left for dead on the field, where he remained all the next day, and it was only on the third
morning, in taking up his body for interment, that he was discovered to be still alive. He
recovered from his wounds and lived long afterwards.[14]

Belisarius, unlike the noble barons of more modern days, who were all pride and presumption
in their iron shells, mounted on their dray horses, but useless when dismounted, did not disdain
to add to his knightly accomplishments that of a most skilful archer. This skill saved Rome
in a dangerous attack. When the Goths advanced their movable towers against the walls, drawn
forward by innumerable yokes of oxen, Belisarius, placing himself on the ramparts, ordered
the garrison to allow the towers to advance unmolested by the machines to within bow-shot.
Then taking up a long bow, which might have graced the hand of Robin Hood, and choosing two
shafts of a yard in length, he drew the bowstring to his ear, and shot his shaft at the tower.
The Gothic captain, who was directing its movements from the summit, had trusted too much to
the workmanship of his Milan armour. The fabric was not equal to that of Byzantium. The shaft
pierced him to the heart; he tottered a moment on the edge of the tower, and then fell headlong
forward. The second shaft brought down another Goth. Belisarius then ordered his archers to
shoot at the oxen, which soon fell, pierced by a thousand arrows; and the towers that the Gothic
army counted on to enable them to make a general assault, remained immovable until the Romans
could burn them.[15]

Belisarius, fond of cavalry, seems to have overlooked, nay, even to have neglected, the discipline
of the Roman infantry. While besieged in Rome, he defended the place by a series of cavalry
skirmishes, and allowed all the officers of the infantry who could mount themselves to serve
on horse-back. Some of the native officers of the legionaries, jealous of their reputation,
offered to lead their troops on foot. Belisarius would hardly allow them to quit the walls,
and plainly expressed his want of confidence in the Roman infantry on the field of battle,
while he showed his utter contempt for the city militia, by keeping it carefully shut up within
the walls. The battle in which the infantry took part proved unsuccessful; but the officers
who led it died bravely, sustaining the combat after the cavalry had fled.[16]

Yet Belisarius knew well how to appreciate the tactics of the old Roman legion; and he made
use of a singular method of obtaining the great military advantages to be derived from the
possession of a body of the best infantry. At the battle of Kallinikon, when his cavalry was
broken by the iron-cased horsemen of Persia--the renowned kataphraktoi, or original steel lobsters--the
Roman general, with the genius of a Scipio or a Cæsar, saw that the steadiness of a body of
infantry could alone save his army. He immediately ordered the heavy lancers of his own guard
to dismount, and form square before the feebler and less perfectly equipped soldiers of the
legions of the line. With this phalanx, presenting its closely serried shields and long lances
to the repeated charges of the kataphraktoi, he foiled every attack of the victorious Persians,
and saved his army.[17]

Belisarius, however, acquired more favour at the court of Justinian, and secured the personal
affection of the Emperor more, by slaughtering the people of Constantinople in a city rebellion,
originating out of the factions of the Circus, than by his exploits against the distant enemies
of the empire. The affair was called the Day of Victory. The scene was repeated on the 4th
of October 1795, in the city of Paris, and was called the Day of the Sections. The part of
the Thracian Belisarius was then performed by the Corsican Bonaparte. In the tragedy of old,
three thousand citizens were massacred by the mild Belisarius, in that of Paris, hardly three
hundred perished by the inexorable Napoleon.

The personal conduct of Belisarius is presented to us under two totally different points of
view, in the works of his Secretary Procopius. In the authentic history of the Persian, Vandal,
and Gothic wars, he appears as the commander-in-chief of the Roman armies, his actions are
narrated by a Roman historian, and his conduct is held up to the admiration of Roman society.
In the secret history, on the contrary, we have, it is true, the same man described by the
same author, but the work is addressed to the Greek race, and not to their Roman rulers, and
it presents Belisarius as the instrument of a corrupt and tyrannical court, engaged in plundering
the people, while crouching under the oppression of which he was the minister. The history
of Procopius was written for the libraries of the Byzantine nobles; the anecdotes for the clubs
of the Greek people. Though composed in the same language, they belong not only to two different
classes of literature, but even to the literature of two different races of men.[18]

Belisarius was a fortunate, as well as a great general. His victories over the Vandals and
the Goths prove his military talents; but the spectacle of their kings, Gelimer and Witiges,
the representatives of the dreaded Genseric and the mighty Theoderic, walking as captives through
the streets of Constantinople, made a deeper impression on men's minds than the slaughter of
the bloodiest battle. Nor was the restoration of the sacred plate of the Temple of the Jews
to the city of Jerusalem, an event of less importance, in a superstitious age, than the destruction
of a barbarian monarchy. Among the spoils of the Vandals at Carthage, Belisarius had found
in the treasury those sacred vessels which Titus, nearly five centuries before, had carried
away to Rome from the ruins of Jerusalem. Genseric had transported these relics to Africa,
when he plundered Rome in the year 455. Justinian was generous enough to revive the long forgotten
ceremony of a Roman triumph in order to augment the glory of Belisarius; and the sacred plate
of the Jews was exhibited to the people of Constantinople amidst the pomp of the gorgeous pageant.
The emperor then commanded them to be removed to Jerusalem, to be preserved in a Christian
church.[19]

The restoration of the sacred spoils of Jerusalem rendered the name of Belisarius renowned
in the eastern world, far beyond the bounds of the Roman empire; the glory of refusing the
throne of the Cæsars of the west, amazed the barbarians of Europe as far as the filiation of
the Gothic and Germanic races extended. The glory of being deemed worthy of the empire, was
eclipsed by the singular display of personal dignity which could refuse the honour. When Belisarius
was on the eve of putting an end to the Gothic monarchy by the conquest of Ravenna and the
capture of Witiges, the Goths, reflecting on their national position in the days of Alaric
and Theoderic, when they were only the soldiers of the empire, offered their submission to
Belisarius, and invited him to assume the dignity of Emperor of the West. Belisarius refused
the offer. He had seen in his Italian campaigns, that the Gothic nobles of Italy were no longer
the same soldiers as the Gothic mercenaries of the imperial armies.[20] The merit of refusing
the empire must have been deeply felt by Justinian; but the jealousy excited by the renown,
which conferred the option of accepting such power, gradually effaced the impression of that
merit in the breasts both of the feeble emperor, and of his energetic and ambitious consort,
Theodora. Though Belisarius loved money and splendour, and had more of Pompey than Cæsar in
his character, still the boldest cabinet minister must have felt that lie could no longer safely
be entrusted with the whole military power of the empire. Though his fidelity remained inviolable,
a seditious army could compel him, even if unwilling, to become its instrument. From the day,
therefore, that Belisarius refused the Empire of the West, a cloud fell over his military career.
It was determined by the imperial administration never again to entrust him with a force sufficient
to proceed in a career of conquest.

It is needless to dwell on the military events of the life of Belisarius. Hilbud, Germanos,
and Salomon, were his worthy companions in arms; and the eunuch Narses was all but his equal
as a general, and greatly his superior as a statesman.

We must now turn to examine the personal conduct of Belisarius. He was unfortunately too much
under the influence of his beautiful wife, though she was a few years older than her husband.
Her close friendship with the Empress Theodora, her talents, her bold character, and the devoted
attachment she displayed to Belisarius, excuses his too servile affection. She embarked with
him in the African expedition, though Procopius says that the boldest Roman generals feared
the enterprise; and she accompanied him in Italy. In the historical works of Procopius, she
is represented as an excellent wife; in his secret libel, as a shameless and profligate woman.

The presence of the Lady Antonina at Carthage and Rome, compelled Belisarius to keep up a splendid
and expensive court. The commander-in-chief was fond of wealth, Antonina of splendour. The
fortunes of private individuals were still enormous, and rivalled the wealth of Crassus and
the debts of Cæsar.[23] Belisarius, like a noble Roman, availed himself of his commands in
Africa, and Italy, to become master of sums equalling in amount the mighty accumulations of
extortion collected by the consuls and proconsuls of old Rome, when they plundered Syria, Egypt,
Pontus and Armenia. Of this wealth Belisarius made no inconsiderable display when at Constantinople.
He passed along the streets, and appeared in the Hippodrome, attended by a numerous and brilliant
suite of Gothic, Vandal, and Mauritanian chiefs, mounted on the finest horses, and clad in
the richest armour, that wealth could command. In the days of his greatest prosperity, his
own guards amounted to 7000 horsemen; and they were more formidable from their discipline and
military experience than from their numbers. To this band of well-trained veterans, he owed
many of his victories over the Goths in Italy.[24]

The civil administration of Belisarius was never very successful. His bad financial management
involved his African army in revolt; and in Italy he overlooked disorders, which at last produced
indiscipline in his own ranks, and famine among the Italians. The expense of supporting his
cohorts of personal guards, and the necessity of securing the services of the most experienced
and boldest troopers in this chosen corps, induced him to wink at irregularities in Africa
and Italy, that he would have been obliged to punish severely near Constantinople or in Greece.
At Abydos, he had ordered two Huns of the mercenary cavalry to be hanged for committing a murder;
at Rome, he ran the risk of being murdered himself in the midst of a council of war, by one
of his generals, from having neglected too long to cheek the rapacity and injustice every where
perpetrated under the sanction of his authority.

His own personal conduct, and the manner in which he governed Italy, cannot be better illustrated
than by two examples recorded, not in the secret libel, but in the public history of his secretary
Procopius.

Belisarius deposed the Pope of Rome, as well as the Kings of the Vandals and the Goths. The
account Procopius gives us of this extraordinary act, is conveyed in so few and in such cautious
words, that it is necessary to notice their brevity. "The Pope Silverius was suspected of holding
treasonable communication with the Goths, who at that time besieged Rome. Belisarius seized
him, and banished him to Greece."[25] But even if the fact that Pope Silverius had really held
treasonable communication with the Goths, be admitted, still the manner in which he was condemned
by Belisarius affords irrefragable evidence of the injustice of his civil administration.

As the representative of the emperor, Belisarius held a court with all the pomp of a sovereign
prince. Yet when the Pope, accompanied by his clergy, presented himself at the palace to answer
the summons of the imperial lieutenant, he was compelled to enter alone into the cabinet, where
the affairs of Italy were decided by the governor-general. In this hall of audience, the Pope
found Belisarius seated, while Antonina was reclining on a sofa, in the midst of the assembly,
and taking an active part in the business transacted. It was she, and not Belisarius, who interrogated
the pontiff. The general's wife insulted the representative of Saint Peter with reproaches,
while the general remained a silent spectator of the lady's arrogance, and did not even investigate
the evidence of the Pope's guilt. Prejudged by the suspicions of Belisarius, and condemned
by the anger of Antonina, Silverius was allowed no opportunity of repelling the accusations
brought against him. In the very presence of the commander-in-chief, his pontifical robes were
torn off; and as he was hurried away, he was hastily covered with the garb of a monk, and immediately
embarked for Greece, to die an exile.

Now, whether it be true or not that Belisarius and Antonina persecuted the Pope to gratify
the revenge of Theodora, who had vainly demanded his approbation of an heretical favourite,
or that they committed this act of injustice to participate in a large bribe paid by his successor,
there can be no doubt that the manner of the Pope's condemnation, without trial, must have
destroyed all confidence in the justice of Belisarius throughout Italy, and from this moment
every calumny against his administration would readily find credence.

The second example of the arbitrary government of Belisarius, affords the means of estimating
the extent to which the officers of the army were allowed to carry their peculation and extortion,
as well as the total disregard of all the principles of judicial administration displayed by
the commander-in-chief himself, in compelling them to disgorge their plunder. The details of
this singular event are reported by Procopius with minuteness and simplicity, and he concludes
his narration with a distinct condemnation of the injustice of his patron's conduct. He says,
it was the only dishonourable act of his life, but adds, that in spite of the usual moderation
of Belisarius, Konstantinos was murdered.[26]

Konstantinos, a Thracian general, was one of the bravest and most active of the Byzantine officers.
He led a division of the army against Perugia and Spoleto; and during the assault of Rome by
the Goths, the defence of the tomb of Hadrian had been confided to him. He defended this strange
fortress with great valour, though his proceedings have been the subject of execration for
the lovers of ancient art ever since, as he used the innumerable statues with which the tomb
was adorned, to serve as missiles against the enemy.[27]

Præsidius, a Roman of Italy, and a man of some distinction, resided at Ravenna under the dominion
of the Goths. Wishing to escape from their power, he fled, and sought refuge in a church near
Spoleto. The only objects of great value he had carried away with him, were two splendid daggers
set in gold, and richly adorned with valuable gems. Konstantinos, hearing of this booty, sent
his adjutant to take away the daggers. Præsidius hastened to Rome, and on arriving complained
to Belisarius, who only requested Konstantinos to arrange the affair. Such conduct appeared
to Præsidius a mockery of justice; and one day, as Belisarius was riding through the Agora,
he laid hold of the reins of the general's horse, and called with a loud voice, "Is it permitted,
Belisarius, by the laws of the Roman empire, that a suppliant who implores your protection
against the barbarians be plundered by Roman generals?" In vain the staff officers around ordered
Præsidius to let go the general's bridle, and threatened him with punishment; he refused, until
he received a promise from Belisarius that he should receive justice. There is something truly
Oriental in all this, and very little in accordance with the principles of the Justinian code:
the promise of Belisarius is considered of more value than the laws of the empire. He appears
in the character of a vizier or a sultan in the Arabian Nights.

Next day a council of the principal officers of the army was convoked in the palace of Belisarius;
and, in the presence of the assembled generals, Konstantinos was summoned to restore the jewelled
daggers to Præsidius. The attempt to discountenance military license, which had so long been
tolerated, appeared to the rude Thracian a parade of justice, assumed merely for the purpose
of imposing on the Italians; he conceived, that while surrounded by his colleagues, he might
safely despise what he considered to be a farce. He therefore refused to give up his plunder,
and said gaily that he would rather throw the daggers into the Tiber than restore them. Belisarius,
enraged at the insolent boldness of his proceeding, exclaimed, "Are you not bound to obey me?"
The reply was, "Yes, in every thing else according to the Emperor's commission; but not in
this matter." On receiving this answer, the commander-in-chief ordered his guards to be summoned.
The order astonished Konstantinos, who saw the affair was assuming a more serious aspect than
he had foreseen. Well aware that peculation and extortion were not very heinous offences in
the Roman armies, he immediately suspected the existence of a project to ruin him for some
other reason, and cried out, "Are the guards ordered in to murder me?" "No," said Belisarius,
"only to compel you to restore the plunder which your adjutant seized in the church at Spoleto."
Konstantinos saw the commander-in-chief enraged, and knew the Byzantine government well enough
to feel his life insecure under the turn affairs seemed taking. With the quick determination
of the daring chiefs who then led the fierce soldiers of the empire, he resolved to secure
revenge, and perhaps make it the means of escape. Suddenly drawing his sword, he sprang at
Belisarius, and made a thrust at his heart. The commander-in-chief, struck with amazement,
only contrived to escape by jumping back and dodging behind Bessas, a Thracian Goth of high
rank in the Roman army.[28] Konstantinos turned to escape, but was seized by the generals Ildiger
and Valerian; and the guards entering dragged him from the council chamber to another room,
where he was shortly after murdered by the order of Belisarius.[29]

Now it must be recollected that we have an account of these two remarkable events in the life
of Belisarius from an eye-witness. The very reserve of Procopius, who, in the affair of the
Pope, omits all mention of Antonina, and glides over the injustice of the proceedings from
dread of the feminine ferocity of the lady, and the priestly persecution of the successor of
Silverius, who still continued to occupy the Papal chair when the history was written, affords
us an indubitable warrant for the accuracy of the graphic description of the impressive scene
which attended the murder of Konstantinos. When the History of the Gothic War was published,
many of the generals who had been present at the council were still living.

These pictures of Belisarius and his times are not very favourable. A governor-general sitting
in council, with his wife on the sofa directing the despatch of business, and a commander-in-chief
holding a council at which one of his generals of division rushes at him with a drawn sword,
do not give us an exalted idea of the order maintained in society during the brilliant conquests
of Justinian's reign. Reasoning from analogy, it may appear natural enough that such a governor-general
and commander-in-chief should end his career by having his eyes put out and by begging his bread.

There was another circumstance which very much increased the probability of Belisarius dying
a beggar. We do not wish to deprive the tale of the smallest portion of the just sympathy of
the latest posterity. The fact is, Belisarius grew enormously rich during his successful campaigns
against Gelimer and Witiges, and even contrived to accumulate treasures during his unsuccessful
wars with Chosroes and Totila.[30] Like his friend Bessas and his enemy Konstantinos, as the
truth must be spoken, he did not neglect the golden opportunities he enjoyed of gaining golden
spoils from all sorts of men. Now, from the days of Sylla, to those of Justinian, not to say
a good deal earlier and later, it was the avowed system of the financiers of Rome to increase
the budget by confiscations. The Ottoman empire, heir to most of the vices and some of the
grandeur of Imperial Constantinople, cherished the system as a part of its strength, until
it adopted the more pitiful vices of Western Europe. Anastasius--not the ecclesiastical historian
of the earlier Popes, but the hero of the "Memoirs of a Greek," by Mr Thomas Hope--in his ratiocination
on the principles of Ottoman finance, gives us a compendious abstract of those of Imperial
Rome during eleven centuries, from Augustus to Constantine Dragoses:--

"Regarding each officer of the state only in the light of one of the smaller and more numerous
reservoirs, distributed on distant points to collect the first produce of dews, and drip, and
rills, ere the collective mass be poured into the single greater central basin of the Sultan's
treasury, you give yourself no trouble to check the dishonesty of your agent, or to prevent
his peculations. You rather for a while connive at, and favour and lend your own authority
to his exactions, which will enable you, when afterwards you squeeze him out, to combine greater
profit with a more signal show of justice. In permitting a temporary defalcation from your
treasury, you consider yourselves as only lending out your capital at more usurious interest.
Nine long years, while your work is done for you gratuitously, you feign to sleep, and the
tenth you wake from your deceitful slumber; like the roused lion, you look round where grazes
the fattest prey, stretch your ample claw, crush your devoted victim, and make every drop of
his blood, so long withheld from your appetite, at last flow into the capacious bowels of your
insatiable hazné"--(treasury).[31]

Belisarius was certainly a fatted prey, and it is no wonder that his inordinate wealth excited
the cravings of the minister of finance of the lavish Justinian and the luxurious Theodora.
After his return from the conquest of Italy, he lived at Constantinople in a degree of magnificence
unrivalled by the proudest modern sovereign. His household consisted, as we have already seen,
of a small army; and as he was fond of parade, he rarely appeared in public without a splendid
staff of mounted officers. His liberality and his military renown ensured him the applause
of the people whenever he presented himself among them. Such wealth, such a train of guards,
and such popularity, not unnaturally excited both envy and alarm. Accordingly, when the unsuccessful
issue of the campaigns against the Persians under Chosroes, in 541 and 542, had diminished
the popularity of Belisarius, the Emperor seized the occasion of rendering him less an object
of fear by depriving him of a considerable number of his guards and great part of his treasures.[32]
The picture Procopius has drawn of Belisarius in his disgrace, is by no means flattering to
the general; it represents him as a mean-spirited and uxorious courtier. "It was a strange
spectacle, and incredible, had we not been eye-witnesses of the fact, to behold Belisarius,
deprived of all his official rank, walking in the streets of Constantinople almost alone, dejected,
melancholy, and fearing for his life."[33]

Shortly after, Belisarius was partially reinstated in favour and sent to command in Italy against
Totila. In 548, he quitted that country for the second time, after struggling unsuccessfully
against the Gothic monarch. The jealousy of Justinian had prevented his receiving the supplies
necessary for carrying on the war with vigour; and the want of success is not to be considered
as any stain on the military reputation of Belisarius. Though he returned ingloriously to Constantinople,
still, even amidst the misfortunes of the Roman arms in Italy, he had not neglected to save
or accumulate wealth, and he was enabled to pass the rest of his life in great if not in regal
splendour.[34]

He enjoyed the glory of his earlier exploits, and the popularity secured by his equable temperament,
undisturbed for eleven years. In the year 559, an incursion of the Huns was pushed forward
to the very walls of Constantinople. The weakness of Justinian, the avarice of his ministers,
and the rapacity of his courtiers, had introduced such abuses in the military establishments
of the capital, that in this unexpected danger the city appeared almost without a regular garrison.
In this difficulty, all ranks, from Justinian to the populace, turned to Belisarius as the
champion of the empire. The aged hero, finding the imperial guards useless as a military corps,
since it had been converted into a body of pensioners, appointed by the favour of ministers
and courtiers, and its ranks filled up with shopkeepers and valets--assembled such of the provincial
troops and of his old guards as were living in the capital.[35] With a small body of experienced
veterans, and an army in which fear at least ensured obedience to his orders, he took the field
against the Huns. Victory attended his standard. He not only drove back the barbarians, but
overtook and destroyed the greater part of their army.

There was nothing of romance in this last campaign of Belisarius. He could no longer lead his
gallant guards to display his own, and their valour, in some rash enterprise. His war-horse,
Balan, was in its grave, and his own strength no longer served him to act the colonel of cuirassiers.
But he was, perhaps, all the better general for the change; and his manoeuvres effected a more
complete destruction of the Huns, than would have resulted from the defeat of their army by
the bold sallies of his youthful tactics.

The glory of the aged hero, and the proofs it afforded of his great popularity and extensive
authority over the military classes throughout the empire, again revived the jealousy of the
court. The ministers of Justinian perhaps dreaded that the affection of the emperor for his
former favourite might recall Belisarius into public life, and effect a change in the cabinet.
To prevent this, they calumniated him to the feeble prince, and worked so far on his timidity
as to induce the emperor to withhold those testimonials for great public services which, it
was customary to bestow. The fact that he was persecuted by the court, endeared Belisarius
to the people and augmented the aversion of the emperor.[36]

Belisarius was now an object of suspicion to the government. And at this interesting period
of his life, all cotemporary history suddenly fails us. The events of his latter days are recorded
by writers who lived more than two hundred years after his death.[37]

In the year 562, a plot against the life of Justinian was discovered, and Belisarius was accused
by some of the conspirators as privy to it. The accusation was sure to please the party in
power. Several of his dependents, on being put to the torture, gave evidence against him. He
was suspected by the government; but his conduct during a long life rendered the charge improbable,
and the Roman law never placed any great reliance on evidence extracted by torture.[38] In
this bitter hour, it must be confessed that Justinian treated Belisarius with more justice
than he had treated the Pope Silverius. A privy council was convoked, at which the principal
nobles, the patriarch, and some of the officers of the imperial household, were present with
the emperor in person. Belisarius was summoned, and the cause of the conspirators was heard.
Justinian was induced for a moment to believe in his guilt. The order was given to place him
under arrest. He was deprived of the guards that still attended him, his fortune was sequestered,
and he was confined a prisoner in his palace. Six days after the first examination, the business
of the conspiracy was again investigated, and Justinian did not retract his previous suspicions.
Belisarius was kept under arrest in his own palace without any further proceedings being directed
against him. These examinations took place on the 5th and 11th of December; and the text of
Malalas must be received as convincing evidence that Justinian took no stronger measures against
Belisarius before the commencement of the year 563.[39]

On the 19th of July of that year Belisarius was restored by Justinian to all his honours. Some
months of cool reflection had convinced the emperor, that the extorted evidence of a few dependents
against an opposition leader, ought not not to outweigh the testimony of a long life of unstained
loyalty. The remainder of that life was passed in tranquillity; and in the month of March of
the year 565, the patrician Belisarius terminated his glorious career, and his fortune reverted
to the imperial treasury. Such is the brief account which we possess of the last days of the
conqueror of the Vandals and the Goths--the restorer of the spoils of Jerusalem--the deposer
of a Pope--the destroyer of the tomb of Hadrian--and the last of the Romans who triumphed,
leading kings captive in his train.[40] Antonina survived her husband, and lived in retirement
with Vigilantia, the sister of Justinian, but in the enjoyment of wealth. Before her death
she reconstructed the church of St Procopius, which had been destroyed by fire; and it received,
from her affection for Justinian's sister, the name of Vigilantia.[41]

We must now notice the accounts of the modern Byzantine writers. George Cedrenus was a monk
of the eleventh century, who has left us a history of the world to the year 1057. It contains
many popular stories, but often transcribes or abridges official documents as well as ancient
historians. In this work we might expect to find any fable, generally accredited, concerning
Belisarius; but the account of his latter days is in exact conformity with those of Theophanes
and Malalas.[42]

John Zonaras had been Grand Drungary, or First Lord of the Admiralty at Constantinople, before
he retired to end his days in a monastery on Mount Athos. His Chronicle extends from the Creation
to the year 1118, and contains much information not found elsewhere. He is considered as among
the most valuable of the Byzantine historians. He mentions that Belisarius was compromised
in the plot against the life of Justinian; that he was deprived of his guards and kept prisoner
in his house; and that, when he died, his fortune was taken by the imperial treasury.[43] Consequently
Belisarius was in possession of his fortune at the time of his death, and it is possible that
Justinian may have been his legal heir.[44]

The chronicle published under the name of Leo Grammaticus, which dates from the twelfth century,
states that Belisarius, having been accused of plotting against the Emperor Justinian, died
of grief.[45]

Such are the historical accounts which the annals of the Byzantine empire furnish concerning
the fate of Belisarius. But, attached to the collection of Justinian's laws, there is a rescript,
which would alone afford conclusive evidence of the restoration of Belisarius to all his honours,
if we could place implicit reliance on the date it bears. Unfortunately, however, for our purpose,
the authority on which Cujacius published it, is not sufficiently established to give satisfactory
authenticity to its date. This date is 565, and in the month of March of this year Belisarius
died; and in the month of November Justinian also followed him. The rescript speaks of Belisarius
incidentally as "our most glorious patrician;" an expression incompatible with his having suffered
any great indignity, or remained in permanent disgrace.[46]

We must now turn from examining public history, to consider popular feeling. Belisarius, as
we have already observed, was the hero of the Roman world; but another society existed in the
very heart of that world, which hated every thing Roman. This society was Greek; it had its
own feelings, its own literature, and its own church. Of its literature, Procopius has left
us a curious specimen in his Secret History, where the facts of his public Roman history are
presented to the discontented Greeks, richly spiced with calumny and libels on the Roman administration.
Peculiar circumstances gave the reign of Justinian a prominent position in the history of the
world, as the last great era of Roman history, and its memory was long cherished with a feeling
of wonder and awe.[47] We must, however, remark, that from the death of Justinian to the accession
of Leo III. the Isaurian, the government of the Eastern empire was strictly Roman. From the
reign of Leo III. to that of Basil I. the Macedonian (867) if not quite Roman, it was very
far from Greek.

Three centuries after the death of Belisarius and Justinian, new feelings arose. The Greeks
then looked back on the authentic history of Belisarius as they did on that of Scipio and Sylla,--as
a history unconnected with their own national glory, but marking the last conquests which illustrated
the annals of the Roman empire, and affording one of those mighty names admirably adapted

     "To point a moral, or adorn a tale."

We must now endeavour to prove that its use for this purpose, in the manner transmitted to
us, was subsequent to the accession of Basil the Macedonian.

We believe that the blindness and beggary of Belisarius, as recorded in the Greek romance,
of which the memory has become a part of the tradition of Western Europe, was suggested to
the novelist by the fate of Symbat, an Armenian noble in the Byzantine service, who married
the daughter of the Cæsar Bardas, the uncle of the Emperor Michael III. The catastrophe of
the romance is mentioned by two writers of the twelfth century. One is the anonymous author
of a description of Constantinople, who was a cotemporary of Zonaras. The other is John Tzetzes,
who wrote a rambling work consisting of mythological and historical notices in Greek political,
civil, or profane verse, as it may be called, (versus politici)--the epic poetry of modern
Greece; correctly compared by Lord Byron to the heroic strain of

     "A captain bold of Halifax who lived in country quarters."

This poet flourished at the end of the twelfth century.

The anonymous Guide-Book, relates that Justinian, envying the glory of Belisarius, put out
his eyes, and ordered him to be placed in the Lauron with a bowl of earthenware in his hand,
that the charitable might bestow on him an obolus.[48] Tzetzes repeats the same story in his
learned doggrel, only he gives Belisarius a wooden dish in his hand, and stations him to beg
in the Milion or Stadium of Constantinople. But Tzetzes, who piqued himself on his historical
knowledge, candidly tells his readers, that other chronicles say that Belisarius was restored
to all his former honours.[49]

The notices of a Greek guide-book, and the tales of a popular versifier, concerning a Roman
general, ought certainly to be received with great caution, when they are found to be at variance
with all historical evidence. In this case, tradition cannot be admitted to have had any existence
for many centuries after the death of Belisarius. The supposed tradition is Greek,--the authentic
history is Roman. But historical evidence exists to show that all the details concerning the
blindness and beggary of Belisarius have been copied by the author of the romance, from circumstances
which occurred at Constantinople in the year 866.

In that year, the Armenian, Symbat, after assisting his wife's cousin the Emperor Michael III.
(who rejoiced in the jolly epithet of the Drunkard,) and the future emperor Basil the Macedonian,
(who subsequently murdered his patron the Drunkard,) to assassinate his own father-in-law Cæsar
Bardas, rebelled against his connexion the Drunkard.[50] He engaged Peganes, the general of
the theme of Opsikion, or the provinces on the Asiatic shore of the Hellespont, in his rebellion.
Peganes was soon taken prisoner by the imperial troops, and the Drunkard ordered his eyes to
be put out and his nose to be cut off, and he then sent him to stand in the Milion for three
days successively, with a bowl in his hand, to solicit alms. A month after, the news that Symbat
was captured was brought to the emperor, while he was feasting in the palace of St Mamas. He
ordered Peganes to be led out to meet the new prisoner, that Symbat might be conducted into
Constantinople with every possible indignity. The blind and mutilated Peganes was compelled
to walk before his friend, with a bowl of earthenware in the form of a censer, filled with
sulphur, as if burning incense to perfume him. The right eye of Symbat was put out, and his
right hand cut off, and in this state he was placed in the Lauron, like a beggar, with a bowl
hung before his breast to receive charity. Three days after, the two rebels were allowed to
return to their houses, where they were kept prisoners. Symbat regained possession of his sequestered
fortune when Basil the Macedonian became emperor.

Now, even if we admit the possibility of the politic Justinian having treated Belisarius as
Michael the Drunkard treated the unprincipled Symbat, still it is impossible to compare the
words in which the Guide-book and Tzetzes commemorate the misfortunes of the hero with the
narratives of the punishment of Peganes and Symbat, without feeling that the former are transcribed
from the latter.

To prove this, if necessary, we could quote the words of our authorities. The earliest account
of the punishment of Peganes and Symbat is given by George the Monk, a Byzantine writer whose
chronicle ends with the year 920. The chronicle of Simeon Metaphrastes, which also belongs
to the tenth century, and that of Leo Grammaticus, give the same account, almost in the same
words. There can be no doubt that they are all copied from official documents; the style is
a rich specimen of the monastic state-paper abridgment.[51]

The state-paper style was retained in the romance from which the Guide-book was copied, to
impress the feeling of reality on the minds of the people; while the mention of the obolus,
an ancient coin, marked the antique dignity with which the tale was invested. The obolus had
been, for centuries, unknown in the coinage of Constantinople; and the word was no longer in
use in the public markets of Greece. But besides this, if the Guide-book is to be admitted
as an authority for a historical fact, it very soon destroys the value of its own testimony
concerning the blindness and beggary of Belisarius; for, only a few lines after recording his
disgrace, it mentions a gilt statue of the hero as standing near the palace of Chalce.

Such is fame. The real Belisarius, the hero of the history and the libels of Procopius, being
a Roman general, owes his universal reputation to the creation of an imaginary Belisarius by
some unknown Greek romance-writer or ballad-singer. The interest of mankind in the conquests
and records of Byzantine Rome has become torpid; but the feelings of humanity, in favour of
the victims of courtly ingratitude, are immortal. The unextinguishable aversion of the Hellenic
race to tyranny and oppression, has given a degree of fame to the name of Belisarius which
his own deeds, great as they were, would never have conferred. This is but one proof of the
singular influence exercised by the Hellenic mind over the rest of the world during the middle
ages. It may be continually traced in the literature both of the east and the west. Whenever
the sympathies are awakened by general sentiments of philanthropy among the emirs of the east,
or the barons of the west, there is reason to suspect that the origin of the tale must be sought
in Greece. Europe has been guided by the mind of Hellas in every age, from the days of Homer
to those of Tzetzes; and its power has been maintained by addressing the feelings common to
the whole human race--feelings long cherished in Greece after they had been banished from western
society by Goths, Franks, and Normans.[52]

There is yet one important reflection which, if the study of the age of Belisarius and Justinian
does not suggest, we have failed to comprehend its true spirit. In spite of its glory--of its
legislative, its legal, its military, its administrative, its architectural, and its ecclesiastical
greatness, it was destitute of that spiritual power which rules and guides the souls of men.
It was an age entirely material and selfish. Religion was a mere formula: Christianity slept
victorious amidst the ruins of extinguished paganism. Belisarius could depose one Pope, and
sell the chair and the keys of St Peter to another, without rousing the indignation of the
Christian world. Liberty was an incomprehensible term. That energy of individual independence
and physical force which excited the barbarians of the north to conquer the western empire,
and enabled the Romans of Byzantium to save the eastern, was sinking into lethargy. Patriotism
was an unknown feeling. Indeed, what idea of nationality or love of country could be formed
by the privileged classes of Constantinople? Their successors the Turks may be taken as interpreters
of the sentiments of the Byzantine Romans on this subject, who, while vegetating in Stamboul,
gravely tell you that Mecca is their country.

In short, the spirit of liberty and religion was torpid in the empire of Justinian, and perhaps
in the soul of Belisarius. These two remarkable men were both governed by the material impulses
of military discipline and systematic administration. Verily, the mission of Mahomet was necessary
to awaken mankind, and rouse the Christian world from its lethargy to the great mental struggle
which, from the hour of the unfolding of the banner of Islam, has left the minds of men no
repose; and will henceforth compel them to unite the spirit of religion with all their restless
endeavours to realise each successive dream of social improvement that the human soul shall
dare to conceive.

    Athens, March 20, 1847.

FOOTNOTES:

[9] Procopius de Bello Vandalico, lib. i. c. 11. GIBBON (vol. vii. p. 161. note e) says that
he could not find the Germania, a metropolis of Thrace, mentioned by Alemanni, in any civil
or ecclesiastical lists of the provinces and cities. Alemanni's authority may be found in Notitiæ
Græcorum Episcopatuum, where Germania is the sixty-seventh metropolitan see dependent on the
Patriarch of Constantinople.--(Codinus de officiis Magnæ Ecclesiæ et Aulæ Constantinopolitanæ,
p. 380, ed. Paris.) It is probable that the city Germane of the Edifices of Procopius (iv.
3) is the same as Germania. There was a fort in its territory, called Germas. De Ædif. iii.
4. Germanos is still a favourite ecclesiastical name with the Greeks. There is a place on the
Gulf of Corinth, in the territory of Megara, with splendid remains of the military architecture
of an ancient burgh, now called Porto Germano, the ancient Ægosthenæ.--(Leake's Travels in
Northern Greece, vol. i. p. 405.) Herodotus mentions Germanii, [Greek: Germanioi], as an agricultural
tribe of Persians in the time of Cyrus.--(Clio, 125.) These various Germans and Germanians
can hardly be blood relations of our Germany or Deutschland.

[10] Lord Mahon's Life of Belisarius, p. 3. Procopius de Bello Vand. ii. 6.

[11] Procopius de Bello Persico, i. 12. Clinton's Fasti Romani. From this time Procopius was
the official secretary of Belisarius.

[12] A good soldier can only be formed from men between eighteen and forty years of age. In
ancient times it required more strength to make a soldier than in modern. The demand for such
men, in an improving state of society, makes them too valuable to be expended on the game of
war, and hence despots in civilised ages are compelled to use an inferior class. Good troops
must always be highly paid. A good heavy-armed soldier, in ancient Greece, had half the pay
of his captain. The pay of the celebrated English archers, in the middle ages, was extremely
high; as it required the service of a brave and vigorous yeomanry to give that corps the efficiency
it displayed in so many hard-fought battles--(Hallam's Constitutional History of England, ch.
ix. vol. 2.) Lord Brougham, however, overrates the pay of a mounted archer, in making it "equal
to thirty shillings of our money" a-day.--(Political Philosophy, part iii. p. 237.)

[13] Gibbon's Decline and Fall, vii. 166. It is impossible to resist transcribing Gibbon's note.

    [Greek: Neurên men mazô pelasen toxô de sidêron.
    Linxe bios, neurê de meg' iachen achto d' oistos.]

Iliad, iv. 124-125.

"How concise--how just--how beautiful is the whole picture! I see the attitudes of the archer--I
hear the twanging of the bow." The figures of the archers in the Æginetan marbles at Munich,
admirably illustrate the genius of Homer and the taste of Gibbon.

[14] Procopius de Bello Gotthico, i. c. 18.

[15] Procopius de Bello Gotthico, i. c. 21.

[16] Ibid. 28-29.

[17] This singular military manoeuvre was repeated more than once by Roman generals, and shows
how admirably the troops were drilled in what are called the degenerate days of the Roman armies.--(Finlay's
Greece under the Romans, p. 246.)

[18] The best edition of the works of Procopius is that published at Bonn in the new Corpus
Scriptorum Byzantinæ Historiæ commenced under the auspices of Niebuhr. It is edited by W. Dindorff,
and contains a corrected text with various readings, and a reprint of the notes of Alemanni
on the Secret History. 3 vols. 8vo. 1833-8.

[19] Procopius de Bello Vandalico, ii. c. 9.

[20] Procopius de Bello Gotthico, ii. c. 28. [Greek: Basilia t*s Espirias Bilisariei as*ipin
*giksat]

[21] Life of Belisarius, p. 1.

[22] Decline and Fall, vol. vii. 161.

[23] Crassus was in the habit of saying, that no man was rich who could not maintain an army.

[24] Procopius de Bello Gotthico, iii. 1.

[25] Compare Procopius de Bello Gotthico, i. c. 25, with Anastasius de Vitis Pontificum Romanorum,
p. 38, ed., Paris.

[26] De Bello Gotthico, ii. c. 8.

[27] Ibid. i. 22.

[28] There is a touch of the malicious spirit of the Secret History in the narration of Procopius,
caused probably by some recollection of the ridiculous though dangerous position of Belisarius
in avoiding the stab aimed at him by Konstantinos. The whole scene could hardly fail to produce
a profound impression on the coolest spectator, even in that age, when men were more accustomed
to stabbing than in our delicate days of gunshot wounds. [Greek: Ho de (Belisarios) kataplageis
opisô te apestê kai Bissa ingus tou estkati periplakeis diaphygein ischyos]--(De Bello Gotthico,
ii. 8.) Bessas was as great an extortioner as Konstantinos. (See Ibid. iv. 13.)

[29] Ildiger, doubtless a barbarian, from his name, was married to a daughter of Antonina by
her first husband.--(De Bello Vandalico, ii. 8.) Valerian was also probably a barbarian, as
he commanded a division of federate cavalry in the African war. He was general of the right
wing of the Roman army under Narses at the battle of Taginas or Lentagio, which put an end
to the life of the gallant Totila, and gave the mortal wound to the monarchy of the Ostrogoths.--(De
Bello Gotthico, iv. 31.)

[30] Procopius would lead us to believe that a fine of 300 lbs. of gold (upwards of £140,000
in specie, and twice that sum in value) extorted from Belisarius in 543, was the produce of
his profits during the Asiatic campaigns of 541 and 542. But it is difficult to know what confidence
ought to be placed in the details of the Secret History.--C. 4, p. 32, l. 1, ed. Bonn. Clinton's
Fasti Romani, p. 780.

[31] Anastasius, or the Memoirs of a Greek, by Thomas Hope, vol. ii. 393., first edition. The
writer of these pages remembers reading Anastasius with singular pleasure, at the time of its
publication. Now, after four-and-twenty years' intimate acquaintance with the East, and with
the representatives of most of the classes of men depicted in the novel, he finds that its
correctness of description and truth of character give it all the inexhaustible freshness of
actual life.

[32] Historia Arcana, c. 4. Tom. iii. p. 34, ed. Bonn.

[33] Ibid, Tom. iii. p. 31.

[34] De Bello Gotthico, iii. 35.

[35] Agathias, lib. v. c. 6, p. 159, ed. Paris.--The conversion of royal guards into cheesemongers
is by no means a very uncommon corruption. The dreaded janissaries degenerated into a corporation
of hucksters and green-grocers. The Hellenic kingdom, founded as an incorporation of the spirit
of anarchy and despotism, by the grace of the foreign secretaries of the three great powers
of Europe, possesses a more singular body of military than even the defunct Ottoman corps of
green-grocers. It consists of officers without troops. Its inventor, Armansperg, the quintessence
of Bavarian corruption in Greece, called it the Phalanx.

[36] Agathias, v. ii. p. 161, ed. Paris.

[37] The authentic history of the last events of the life of Belisarius must be gathered from
Theophanes, p. 201, John Malalas, p. 239, and Cedrenus, p. 387. Though, perhaps, Cedrenus may
be objected to as living too long after these events. Theophanes died in 817 at the age of
60. His chronography ends with the year 813. John Malalas lived in the ninth century. The chronicle
of Cedrenus ends with the year 1057.

[38] Pandects, xlvii. tit. 18. 1, s. 23.--Quæstioni fidem non semper, nec tamen nunquam habendum,
constitutionibus declaratur; etenim res est fragilis, et periculosa, et quæ veritatem fallat.--Every
one conversant with the social condition of the people of the East, (and probably it is the
case under all despotic governments,) knows the extreme difficulty of obtaining judicial evidence
that can be relied on, and the temptation judges incur to sanction torture. Hence the common
assertion of public functionaries, that torture is absolutely necessary to secure the administration
of justice; and of course people who require torture to persuade them to speak the truth, are
unfit for self-government and constitutional liberty. Thus falsehood and oppression are perpetuated,
and truth kept perpetually at bay.

[39] Joannis Antiocheni cognomenti Malalæ Historia Chronica. Pars altera, p. 84, ed. Venet.

[40] Theophanis Chronographia, p. 201, ed. Paris. The accounts of Theophanes and Malalas must
be compared together, as the comparison establishes the fact that they were both drawn from
official sources. See also p. 202, 203, and note.

[41] Georgius Codinus de Originibus Constantinopolitanis, p. 54.

[42] Georgii Cedreni Compendium Historiarum, p. 387.

[43] Joannis Zonaræ Annales, tom. ii. p. 69. ed. Paris.

[44] This may have resulted from the marriage of Joanna, the daughter of Belisarius, with Anastasius,
the grandson of Theodora.--Procopii Arcana, c. 4, p. 34.

[45] Leonis Grammatici Chronographia, p. 132. Bonnæ: 1842. 8vo.

[46] Corpus Juris Civilis. Aliæ aliquot Constitutiones. Tom. ii. p. 511, ed. ster. 4to. Privilegium
pro Titionibus ex Cujac. Obss. lib. x. c. 12. In a new edition of the Corpus there is the following
note:--Hoc privilegium editum est in Cujac. Obss., sed ex quo fonte desumptum sit, non indicatur,
nisi quod Cujacius a P. Galesio Hispano se id decepisse dicat. Non sine ratione addidit Beck.
qui in App. Corp. Juris Civ. hanc constitutionem recepit, an genuina sit, dubio non carere.

[47] Greece under the Romans, p. 229.--If the writer of this article may presume to refer to
his own authority.

[48] Imperium Orientale: studio A. Banduri. Tom. i. pars tertia. Antiquitatum Constantinopolitanarum,
p. 7. ed. Paris.

[49] Joannis Tzetzæ Historiarum Variarum Chiliades, p. 94, ed. Kiesslingii, Lipsiæ, 1826, 8vo.

[50] Basil the Macedonian was originally a groom, and owed his first step in the imperial favour
of the Drunkard to his powers as a whisperer. He broke an ungovernable horse belonging to the
emperor, by the exercise of this singular quality, and rendered it, to the amazement of the
whole court, as tame as a sheep. Leo Grammaticus says, [Greek: Tê men mia cheiri ton chalinon
kratêsas, tê de hetera tou ôtos draxamenos eis eme*rot*êta probatou metebalon].--P. 230, ed. Bonn.

[51] Georgius Monachus, p. 540. Simeon Metaph. p. 449. Scriptores post Theophanem, ed. Paris.
Leo Gramm., p. 469, ed. Paris, p. 247, ed. Bonn.

[52] Things have not changed in our day. Capodistrias lighted his pipe with Canning's treaties
and King Leopold's renunciation; and Colettis makes game of the feeble acts and strong expressions
of Viscount Palmerston.

ANCIENT AND MODERN BALLAD POETRY.[53]

The first day of April is a festival too prominent in the Kalendar of Momus to be passed over
without due commemoration. The son of Nox, who, according to that prince of heralds, Hesiod,
presides especially over the destinies of reviewers, demands a sacrifice at our hands; and
as, in the present state of the provision market, we cannot afford to squander a steer, we
shall sally forth into the regions of rhyme and attempt to capture a versifier.

The time has been when such a task was, to say the least of it, very simple. Each successive
spring, at the season when "a livelier iris glows upon the burnished dove," Parnassus sent
forth its leaves, and the voices of many cuckoos were heard throughout the land. Small difficulty
then, either to flush or to bag sufficient game. But, somehow or other, of late years there
has been a sort of panic among the poets. The gentler sort have either been scared by the improvisatore
warblings of Mr Wakley, or terrified into silence by undue and undeserved apprehensions of
the Knout. Seldom now are they heard to chirrup except under cover of the leaves of a sheltering
magazine; and although we do occasionally detect a thin and ricketty octavo taking flight from
the counter of some publisher, it is of so meek and inoffensive a kind that we should as soon
think of making prize of a thrush in a bed of strawberries. We are much afraid that the tendency
of the present age towards the facetious has contributed not a little to the dearth of sonnets
and the extermination of the elegiac stanza. So long as friend Michael Angelo Titmarsh has
the privilege of frequenting the house of Mrs Perkins and other haunts of fashionable and literary
celebrity, Poseidon Hicks will relapse into gloomy silence, and Miss Bunion refrain from chanting
her Lays of the Shattered Heart-strings. It a hard thing that a poet may not protrude his gentle
sorrows for our commiseration, mourn over his blighted hopes, or rejoice the bosom of some
budding virgin by celebrating her, in his Tennysonian measure, as the light-tressed Ianthe
or sleek-haired Claribel of his soul, without being immediately greeted by a burst of impertinent
guffaws, and either wantonly parodied or profanely ridiculed to his face. So firm is our belief
in the humanising influence of poetry that we would rather, by a thousand times, that all the
reviews should perish, and all the satirists be consigned to Orcus, than behold the total cessation
of song throughout the British Islands. And if we, upon any former occasion, have spoken irreverently
of the Nincompoops, we now beg leave to tender to that injured body our heartfelt contrition
for the same; and invite them to join with us in a pastoral pilgrimage to Arcadia, where they
shall have the run of the meadows, with a fair allowance of pipes and all things needful--where
they may rouse a satyr from every bush, scamper over the hills in pursuit of an Oread, or take
a sly vizzy at a water-nymph arranging her tresses in the limpid fountains of the Alpheus.
What say you, our masters and mistresses, to this proposal for a summer ramble?

Hitherto we have spoken merely of the gentler section of the bards. But there is another division
of that august body by no means quite so diffident. Since our venerated Father Christopher
paid, some four years ago, a merited tribute to the genius of Mr Macaulay, commenting upon
the thews and sinews of his verse, and the manly vigour of his Lays of Ancient Rome--ballad
poetry in all its forms and ramifications has become inconceivably rampant. The Scottish poetry
also, which from time to time has appeared in MAGA, seems to have excited, in certain quarters,
a spirit of larcenous admiration; and not long ago it was our good fortune to behold in the
Quarterly Review a laudation of certain lines which are neither more nor less than a weak dilution
of a ballad composed by one of our contributors. It would be well, however, had we nothing
more to complain of than this. But the ballad fever has got to such a height that it may be
necessary to make an example. Our young English poets are now emulating in absurdity those
German students, who dress after the costume of the middle ages as depicted by Cornelius, and
terrify the peaceful Cockney on the Rhine by apparitions of Goetz of Berlichingen. They are
no longer Minnesingers, but warriors of sanguineous complexion. They are all for glory, blood,
chivalry, and the deeds of their ancestors. They cut, thrust, and foin as fiercely as fifty
Francalanzas, and are continually shouting on Saint George. Dim ideas of the revival of the
Maltese Order seem to float before their excited imaginations; and, were there the slightest
spark of genuine feeling in their enthusiasm, either Abd-el-Kader or Marshal Bugeaud would
have had by this time some creditable recruits. But the fact is, that the whole system is a
sham. Our young friends care about as much for Saint George as they do for Saint Thomas Aquinas;
they would think twice before they permitted themselves to be poked at with an unbuttoned foil;
and as for the deeds of their ancestors, a good many of them would have considerable difficulty
in establishing their descent even from a creditable slop-seller--"the founder of our family"--in
the reign of George the Third. It is therefore a mystery to us why they should persevere in
their delusion. What--in the name of the Bend Sinister--have they to do with the earlier Harrys
or Edwards, or the charge of the Templars at Ascalon, or the days of the Saxon Heptarchy? Are
they called upon by some irrepressible impulse to ransack the pages of English history for
a "situation," or to crib from the Chronicles of Froissart? Cannot they let the old warriors
rest in peace, without summoning them, like the Cid, from their honoured graves, again to put
on harness and to engage in feckless combat? For oh!--weak and most washy are the battles which
our esteemed young friends describe! Their war-horses have for the most part a general resemblance
to the hacks hired out at seven-and-sixpence for the Sunday exhibition in the Park. Their armour
is of that kind more especially in vogue at Astley's, in the composition of which tinfoil is
a principal ingredient, and pasteboard by no means awanting. Their heroes fight, after preliminary
parley which would do credit to the chivalry of the Hippodrome; and their lances invariably
splinter as frush as the texture of the bullrush. Their dying chiefs all imitate Bayard, as
we once saw Widdecomb do it, when struck down by the infuriated Gomersal; and the poem generally
concludes with a devout petition to "Our Ladye," not only to vouchsafe her grace to the defunct
champion, but to grant that the living minstrel may experience the same end--a prayer which,
for the sake of several respectable young members of society, we hope may be utterly disregarded.

The truth is, that instead of being the easiest, the ballad is incomparably the most difficult
kind of all poetical composition. Many men, who were not poets in the highest sense of the
word, because they wanted the inventive faculty, have nevertheless, by dint of perseverance,
great accomplishment, and dexterous use of those materials which are ready to the hand of every
artificer, gained a respectable name in the roll of British literature--but never, in any single
instance, by attempting the construction of a ballad. That is the Shibboleth, by which you
can at once distinguish the true minstrel from mere impostor or pretender. It is the simplest,
and at the same time the sublimest form of poetry, nor can it be written except under the influence
of that strong and absorbing emotion, which bears the poet away far from the present time,
makes him an actor and a participator in the vivid scenes which he describes, and which is,
in fact, inspiration of the very loftiest kind. The few who enjoy the glorious privilege, not
often felt, nor long conferred, of surrendering themselves to the magic of that spell, cease
for the time to be artists; they take no thought of ornament, or of any rhetorical artifice,
but throw themselves headlong into their subject, trusting to nature for that language which
is at once the shortest and the most appropriate to the occasion; spurning all far-fetched
metaphors aside, and ringing out their verse as the iron rings upon the anvil! It was in this
way that Homer, the great old ballad-maker of Greece, wrote--or rather chanted, for in his
day pens were scarce, wire-wove unknown, and the pride of Moseley undeveloped. God had deprived
the blind old man of sight; but in his heart still burned the fury of the fight of Troy; and
trow ye not, that to him the silent hills of Crete many a time became resonant with the clang
of arms, and the shouts of challenging heroes, when not a breath of wind was stirring, and
the ibex stood motionless on its crag? What a difference between Homer and Virgil! Moeonides
goes straight to work, like a marshal calling out his men. He moves through the encampment
of the ships, knowing every man by headmark, and estimating his capabilities to a buffet. No
metaphor or nonsense in the combats that rage around the sepulchre of Ilus--good hard fighting
all of it, as befits barbarians, in whose veins the blood of the danger-seeking demigods is
seething: fierce as wild beasts they meet together, smite, hew, and roll over in the dust.
Jove may mourn for Sarpedon, or Andromache tear her hair above the body of her slaughtered
Hector; but not one whit on that account abstain their comrades from the banquet, and on the
morrow, under other leaders, they will renew the battle--for man is but as the leaves of the
forest, whilst glory abideth for ever.

Virgil, on the contrary, had but little of the ballad-maker in his composition. He was always
thinking of himself, and of his art, and the effect which his Æneid would produce,--nay, we
are even inclined to suspect that at times he was apt to deviate into a calculation of the
number of sestertia which he might reasonably reckon to receive from the bounty of the Emperor.
The Æneid is upon the whole a sneaking sort of a poem. The identity of Æneas with Augustus,
and the studied personification of every leading character, is too apparent to be denied. It
is therefore less an epic than an allegory; and--without questioning the truth of Hazlitt's
profound apothegm, that allegories do not bite--we confess that, in general, we have but small
liking to that species of composition. For in the first place, the author of an allegory strips
himself of the power of believing it. He can have no faith in the previous existence of heroes
whom he is purposely portraying as shadows, and he must constantly be put to shifts, in order
to adapt his story, during its progress, to the circumstances which he attempts to typify.
And, in the second place, he commits the error, equally palpable, of disenchanting the eyes
of his reader. For the very essence of that pleasure which we all derive from fiction, lies
in our overcoming to a certain extent the idea of its actual falsity, and in our erecting within
ourselves a sort of secondary belief, to which, accordingly, our sympathies are submitted.
Every thing, therefore, which interferes with this fair and legitimate credulity is directly
noxious to the effect of the poem; it puts us back one stage further from the point of absolute
faith, and materially diminishes the interest which we take in the progress of the piece. Spenser's
Faerie Queen is a notable example of this. Could we but think that Una was intended, though
only by the poet's fancy, to be the portraiture of a mortal virgin, unfriended and alone amidst
the snares and enchantments of the world, would we not tremble for her sweet sake, knowing
that some as innocent and as fair as she have fallen victims to jealousy less dark than Duessa's,
and wiles less skilfully prepared than those of the hoary Archimage? But Una never for one
moment appears to us as a woman. From the first we feel that she is there, not exposed to temptation,
but as a pure and holy spirit, in whose presence hypocrisy is unmasked, and all sin and iniquity
unveiled. Nor fear we for the Red-Cross Knight, even when he seems to go astray, and turns
from the side of her whom he had sworn to protect and guard; for he bears a talisman upon his
shield and his bosom, expressive of his origin, and able to resist for ever the fiery darts
of the wicked. Never rode knight and lady through earthly wilderness as these two journey together.
For them we have no human interest--not even such tears as we might shed for the lapse of an
erring angel. They have not put on mortality, nor do they meet or combat with mortal foes.
Truth will do much for us, even in poetry where the mortal interest is most largely intermingled
with the supernatural. Some belief we have even in the wildest flights of Ariosto. Astolfo
does not cease to be one of ourselves when traversing the regions of air on his hippogriff,
or conversing on the mount of terrestial Paradise with the beloved Apostle John. But which
of us even in fancy can ride with the Red-Cross warrior, penetrate with Guyon into the cave
of Mammon, or realise the dreary pageant that issued from the House of Pride?

Spenser's is the purer allegory--Virgil's but a secondary one. The Æneid is a hybrid poem,
wherein the real and the ideal mingle. There is sufficient of the first to preserve for us
some epic interest, and enough of the latter at times to stagger our belief. But apart from
this, how inferior is the Æneid in interest to the masterpiece of Homer! It consists, epically
speaking, of three divisions--the landing at Carthage, the Sicilian visit to Acestes, and the
final campaign of Italy--and the two first of these have no bearing at all upon the third,
and even that third is incomplete. Whatever homage we may be compelled to pay to the sweetness
of Virgil's muse, and his marvellous power of melody, this at least is undeniable, that in
inventive genius he falls immeasurably short of the Greek, and that his scenes of action are
at once both tinselled and tame. One magnificent exception, it is true, we are bound to make
from such a censure. The second book of the Æneid stands out in strong and vivid contrast from
the rest; and few poets, whether ancient or modern, have written aught like the conflagration
of Troy. Nor shall we, with the severer critics, darkly hint of works which had gone before,
but of which the substance long ago has perished--of the Cyclic poem of Arctinus, said to have
been of all others the nearest in point of energy to the Iliad, or of the songs of Lesches
and Euphorion. Rather let us be thankful for this one episode, without which the great tale
of Ilium would have been incomplete, and the lays of Demodocus in the Odyssey remained mere
hints of the woful catastrophe of Priam. But if you wish to see how Homer could handle a ballad,
turn up the eighth book of your Odyssey until you come to the Minstrel's son--or if haply you
are somewhat rusted in your Greek, and yearn for the aid of Donnegan, listen to the noble version
of Maginn, who alone of all late translators has caught the true fire and spirit of Moeonides.

    "The Minstrel began as the Godhead inspired:
    He sang how their leaguer the Argives had fired,
    And over the sea in trim barks bent their course,
    While their chiefs with Odysseus were closed in the horse,
    Mid the Trojans who had that fell engine of wood
    Dragged on, till in Troy's inmost turret it stood;
    There long did they ponder in anxious debate
    What to do with the steed as around it they sate.

    Then before them three several counsels were laid:
    Into pieces to hew it by the edge of the blade;
    Or to draw it forth thence to the brow of the rock,
    And downward to fling it with shivering shock;
    Or, shrined in the tower, let it there make abode
    As an offering to ward off the anger of God.
    The last counsel prevail'd; for the moment of doom,
    When the town held the horse, upon Ilium had come.

    The Argives in ambush awaited the hour
    When slaughter and death on their foes they should shower.
    When it came, from their hollow retreat rushing down
    The sons of th' Achivi smote sorely the town.
    Then, scattered, on blood and on ravaging bent,
    Through all parts of the city chance-guided they went.
    And he sung how Odysseus at once made his way
    To where the proud towers of Deiphobus lay.

    With bold Menelaus he thitherward strode,
    In valour in equal to War's fiery god,
    Then fierce was the fight--dread the deeds that were done,
    Till, aided by Pallas, the battle he won.
    So sung the rapt Minstrel the blood-stirring tale,
    But the check of Odysseus waxed deadly and pale;
    While the song warbled on of the days that were past,
    His eyelids were wet with the tears falling fast.[54]"

If we go on twaddling thus about the Greeks and Romans, we shall lose the thread of our discourse,
and possibly be found tripping on the subject of Wolf's Prolegomena. Let us, therefore, get
back as fast as we can to the Moderns.

Unless the poet is imbued with a deep sympathy for his subject, we would not give sixpence
for his chance of producing a tolerable ballad. Nay, we go further, and aver that he ought
when possible to write in the unscrupulous character of a partisan. In historical and martial
ballads, there always must be two sides; and it is the business of the poet to adopt one of
these with as much enthusiasm and prejudice, as if his life and fortunes depended upon the
issue of the cause. For the ballad is the reflex of keen and rapid sensation, and has nothing
to do with judgment or with calm deliberative justice. It should embody, from beginning to
end, one fiery absorbing passion, such as men feel when their blood is up, and their souls
thoroughly roused within them; and we should as soon think of moralising in a ballad as in
the midst of a charge of cavalry. If you are a Cavalier, write with the zeal of a Cavalier
combating for his king at Naseby, and do not disgust us with melancholy whinings about the
desolate hearths of the Ironsides. Forget for a time that you are a shareholder in a Life Assurance
Company, and cleave to your immediate business of emptying as many saddles as possible. If
you are out--as perhaps your great-grandfather was--with Prince Charles at Prestonpans, do
not, we beseech you, desert the charging column of the Camerons, to cry the coronach over poor
old Colonel Gardiner, fetched down from his horse by the Lochaber axe of the grim Miller of
Invernahyle. Let him have the honourable burial of a brave man when the battle is over; but--whilst
the shouts of victory are ringing in our ears, and the tail of Cope's horse is still visible
over the knowe which rises upon the Berwick road--leave the excellent Seceder upon the sod,
and toss up your bonnet decorated with the White Rose, to the glory and triumph of the clans!
If you are a Covenanter and a Whig, we need not entreat you to pepper Claverhouse and his guardsmen
to the best of your ability at Drumclog. You are not likely to waste much of your time in lamentations
over the slaughtered Archbishop: and if you must needs try your hand at the execution of Argyle,
do not mince the matter, but make a regular martyr of him at once. In this way should all ballads
be written; and such indeed is the true secret of the craft as transmitted to us by the masters
of old.

We have warned you against moralising: let us now say a word or two on the subjects of description
and declamation. Upon one or other of these rocks, have most of our modern ballad-writers struck
and foundered. What can be in worse taste than the introduction of an elaborate landscape into
the midst of a poem of action, or an elaborate account of a man's accoutrements when he is
fighting for life or death? A single epithet, if it be a choice one, can indicate the scene
of action as vividly and far more effectively than ten thousand stanzas; and, unless you are
a tailor and proud of your handiwork, what is the use of dilating upon the complexion of a
warrior's breeches, when the claymore is whistling around his ears? Nevertheless, even our
best ballad-writers, when their soul was not in their task, have fallen into this palpable
error. None of Sir Walter's ballads commences more finely than "The Gray Brother,"--none has
been more spoiled in its progress by the introduction of minute description. We pass from the
high altar of Saint Peter to the bank of the Eske, and there we are regaled with a catalogue
of the modern seats and villas, utterly out of place and inconsistent with the solemn nature
of the theme. But "The Gray Brother" is a mere fragment which Scott never would complete--owing,
perhaps, to a secret consciousness, that he had already marred the unity of the poem by sketching
in a modern landscape behind his antique figures. Give him, however, a martial subject--let
his eye but once kindle, and his cheek flush at the call of the trumpet, and we defy you to
find his equal. Read--O ye poetasters who are now hammering at Crecy--read the "Bonnets of
Dundee," and then, if you have a spark of candour left, you will shove your foolscap into the
fire. Or tell us if you really flatter yourselves that, were your lives prolonged to the perpetuity
of the venerable Parr, you ever would produce ten stanzas worthy of being printed in the same
volume with these:--

    "The Coronach's cried on Bennachie,
      And down the Don and a',
    And Hieland and Lawland may mournfu' be,
      For the sair field of Harlaw.

Scott was no declaimer. Although bred a barrister, he estimated the faculty of speech at its
proper value, and never thought of making his heroes, on the eve of battle, address their soldiery
in a harangue which would do credit to a President of the Speculative Society. In certain positions,
eloquence is not only thrown away, but is felt to be rank impertinence. No need of rhetorical
artifice to persuade the mob to the pumping of a pickpocket, or, in case of a general row,
to the assault of an intoxicated policeman. Such things come quite naturally to their hands
without exhortation, and it is dangerous to interfere with instinct. The Homeric heroes are,
of any thing, a little too much given to talking. You observe two hulking fellows, in all their
panoply of shield and armour, drawing nigh to one another at the fords of the Scamander, each
with a spear about the size of a moderate ash-tree across his shoulder. The well-greaved Greek,
you already know, is deep in the confidences of Minerva; the hairy Trojan, on the contrary,
is protected by the Lady Venus. You expect an immediate onslaught; when, to your astonishment,
the Greek politely craves some information touching a genealogical point in the history of
his antagonist's family; whereat the other, nothing loath, indulges him with a yarn about Assaracus.
Tros being out of breath, the Argive can do nothing less than proffer a bouncer about Hercules;
so that, for at least half an hour, they stand lying like a brace of Sinbads--whilst Ajax,
on the right, is spearing his proportion of the Dardans, and Sarpedon doing equal execution
among the unfortunate Achivi on the left. Nor, until either warrior has exhausted his patriarchal
reminiscences, do they heave up the boss and the bull-hide, or make play for a thrust at the
midriff. Now, unless the genealogy of their opponents was a point of honour with the ancients--which
it does not appear to have been--these colloquies seem a little out of place. In the middle
ages, a knight would not enter the lists against an opponent of lesser rank; and in such a
case, explanation is intelligible. But in battle there was no distinction of ranks, and no
man cared a stiver about the birth and parentage of another. Genealogies, in fact, are awkward
things, and should be eschewed by gentlemen in familiar discourse, as tending much less towards
edification than offence. Many people are absurdly jealous on the subject of their coffined
sires; nor is it wise in convivial moments to strike up an ancestral ditty to the tune of--

    "Green grows the grass o'er the graves of my governors."

It was an unfortunate accident of this kind which led to the battle of the Reidswire.

    "Carmichael bade him speak out plainly,
    And cloke no cause for ill nor gude;
    The other, answering him as vainly,
      Began to reckon kin and blude.
    He rase, and raxed him, where he stude,
      And bade him match him with his marrows:
    Then Tynedale heard them reason rude,
      And they loot off a flight of arrows."

Scott's heroes are unusually terse and taciturn. They know their business better than to talk
when they should be up and doing; and accordingly, with them, it is just a word and a blow.

    "But no whit weary did he seem,
    When, dancing in the sunny beam,
    He marked the crane on the Baron's crest;
    For his ready spear was in its rest.
    Few were the words, and stern and high,
    That marked the foemen's feudal hate;
    For question fierce and proud reply,
    Gave signal soon of dire debate.
    Their very coursers seem'd to know,
    That each was other's mortal foe,
    And snorted fire, when wheel'd around,
    To give each knight his vantage ground.

    In rapid round the Baron bent;
    He sighed a sigh, and pray'd a prayer;
    The prayer was to his patron saint--
    The sigh was to his ladye fair.
    Stout Deloraine nor sigh'd nor pray'd,
    Nor saint nor ladye called to aid;
    But he stoop'd his head, and couch'd his spear,
    And spurr'd his stead to full career.
    The meeting of these champions proud
    Seem'd like the bursting thunder-cloud."

This, you observe, is practical eloquence,--the perfect pantomime of rhetoric; and, when your
eyes have recovered the dazzling shock of the encounter, you shall see William of Deloraine
lying on the green sward, with the Baron's spear-head sunk a foot within his bosom. Nothing,
in short, can be more conclusive or satisfactory.

Let us now take an instance to the contrary. Few men have written with more fire and energy
than Mr Macaulay; and, in the heart of a battle, he handles his falchion like a Legionary.
Still, every now and then, the rhetorician peeps out in spite of himself, and he goes through
the catalogue of the topics.

Not one other word should stout old Cocles have uttered, of apology for claiming to himself
the post of danger and of death. No higher motive need he have assigned than those contained
in the last two lines, which must have gone home at once to the heart of every Roman. But the
poet will not leave him there. He interpolates another stanza, which has the effect of diluting
the strength of the passage.

The whole of this stanza is bad;--the last four lines of it simply and purely execrable. Mr
Macaulay is far too judicious a critic not to be fully aware of the danger of any weak passage
in a short poem of incident; and we trust, in the next edition, to see this palpable eye-sore
removed. But it is in the ballad of Virginia that his besetting tendency towards declamation
becomes most thoroughly apparent. You are to suppose yourself in the market-place of Rome;--the
lictors of Claudius have seized upon the daughter of the centurion; the people have risen in
wrath at the outrage; and, for a moment, there is hope of deliverance. But the name of the
decemvir still carries terror with it, and the commons waver at the sound. In this crisis,
Icilius, the betrothed of the virgin, appears, and delivers a long essay of some fifty double
lines, upon the spirit and tendency of the Roman constitution. This is a great error. Speeches,
when delivered in the midst of a popular tumult, must be pithy in order to be effective: nor
was Appius such an ass as to have lost the opportunity afforded him by this dialectic display,
of effectually securing his captive.

There is no literary legacy the people of Scotland ought to be so thankful as for their rich
inheritance of national ballads. In this respect they stand quite unrivalled in Europe; for,
although the Scandinavian peninsula has a glorious garland of its own, and Spain and England
are both rich in traditionary story, our northern ballad poetry is wider in its compass, and
far more varied in the composition of its material. The high and heroic war-chant, the deeds
of chivalrous emprise, the tale of unhappy love, the mystic songs of fairy-land,--all have
been handed down to us, for centuries, unmutilated and unchanged, in a profusion which is almost
marvellous, when we reflect upon the great historic changes and revolutions which have agitated
the country. For such changes, though tending essentially towards the production of the ballad,
especially in the historical department, cannot possibly be favourable to its preservation;
and no stronger proof of the intense nationality of the people of Scotland can be found than
this--that the songs commemorative of our earlier heroes have outlived the Reformation, the
union of the two crowns, the civil and religious wars of the revolution, and the subsequent
union of the kingdoms; and, at a comparatively late period, were collected from the oral traditions
of the peasantry. Time had it not in its power to chill the memories which lay warm at the
nation's heart, or to efface the noble annals of its long and eventful history. There is a
spell of potency still in the names of the Bruce and the Douglas.

By whom those ballads were written, is a question beyond solution. A large portion of them
were, we know, composed long before the Press was in existence--some, probably, may date so
far back as the reign of Alexander the Third--and to their own intrinsic merit are they indebted
for preservation. But we are in ignorance of the authorship even of those which are much nearer
to our own immediate period. Much of the Jacobite minstrelsy, and of the songs commemorative,
of the Fifteen and the Forty-five, is anonymous; and we cannot tell whether those ditties,
which have still the power to thrill our hearts so strangely, were written by gentle or by
simple, in the hall or by the cottage fire. After all, it matters not. The poet of Otterbourne
will be greater without a name, than fifty modern versifiers whom it would be odious to particularise,
notwithstanding the blazon of their Christian and patronymic prefix. Better to live for ever
innominate in a song, than to be quoted for a life-time by one's friends, as a self-marked
and immolated driveller.

"Give me," said Fletcher of Saltoun, "the making of a nation's ballads, and I will let you
make its laws." This was, in our opinion, a speech of considerable boldness; and if Fletcher
really made it, he must have had a high estimate of his own poetical powers. Why then, in the
name of Orpheus, did he not set about it incontinently? We presume that there was nothing whatever
to have prevented him from concocting as many ballads as he chose; or from engaging, as engines
of popular promulgation, the ancestors of those unshaven and raucous gentlemen, to whose canorous
mercies we are wont, in times of political excitement, to intrust our own personal and patriotic
ditties. Seldom, indeed, have we experienced a keener sense of our true greatness as a poet,
than when we encountered, on one occasion, a peripatetic minstrel, deafening the Canongate
with the notes of our particular music, and surrounded by an eager crowd demanding the halfpenny
broadsheet. "This is fame!" we exclaimed to a legal friend who was beside us; and, with a glow
of triumph on our countenance, we descended the North Bridge, to indite another of the same.
Notwithstanding this, we cannot aver from experience that our ballads have wrought any marked
effect in modifying the laws of the country. We cannot even go the length of asserting that
they have once turned an election; and therefore it is not unnatural that we should regard
the dogma of Fletcher with distrust. The truth is, that a nation is the maker of its own ballads.
You cannot by any possibility contrive to sway people from their purpose by a song; but songs--ballads
especially--are the imperishable records of their purpose. And therefore it is that they survive,
because they are real and not ideal. It is no feigned passion which they convey, but the actual
reflex of that which has arisen, and wrought, and expended itself; and each historical ballad
is, in fact, a memorial of a national impulse; and wo be to the man who would attempt to illustrate
the past, if he cannot again create within himself the sympathies and the motives which led
to the deeds he must celebrate. Wo be to him, we say--for as sure as there is truth in the
retributive justice of posterity, he will attain an eminent position, not in the roll of beatified
bards, but in that of the British blockheads, and be elected by unanimous consent as a proper
Laureate for the Fogie Club.

It is now a good many years since Sir Walter Scott compiled his Minstrelsy of the Scottish
Border. Previous to the publication of that work, several excellent collections of the older
Scottish ballads had been made, and industrious gleaners have since gathered up every stray
traditionary ear of corn which still lay unnoticed in the furrow. Our excellent friend Robert
Chambers, availing himself of all these labours, has given, in a popular form, the essence
and spirit of the whole; nor does there, we believe, exist a single fragment of the least merit
which has escaped so rigorous a search. We understood that the English ballads had long ago
been collected. These were neither so numerous nor so romantic as ours; but they had fallen
at a much earlier date into the hands of the antiquaries, and we hardly expected in our day
to be told of a considerable addition. Therefore it was with no little astonishment, and some
curiosity, that we perused the announcement of a new work entitled, "The Minstrelsy of the
English Border; being a collection of ballads, ancient, remodelled, and original--founded on
well-known Border legends. With illustrative notes by Frederick Sheldon."

Predisposed though we certainly were to do every justice to the original strains of Mr Sheldon,
he will forgive us when we own that the ancient ballads were the primary objects of our quest.
We were eager to discover what kind of materials--what snatches of antique song, he had rescued
from oblivion among the wild moors of Northumberland; and his preface gave us ample hope of
the choice nature of his budget. From such sources I have obtained many of the ballads in the
present collection. Those to which I have stood godfather, and so baptised and remodelled,
I have mostly met with in the 'broadside' ballads, as they are called; but notwithstanding
their fire and pathos, I found so much obscenity and libertinism mingled with their beauties,
that I was compelled with a rash hand to pluck the nettles away that choked the healthy growth
of the young, fresh, and budding flowers; preserving, as nearly as I could, their ancient simplicity
and diction. Others, by local and nameless poets, I have given as I found them. Those ballads,
virtually my own, are stated to be so in the notes, and these, with great fear and tribulation,
I hang as a votive wreath on the altar of the Muses." This is explicit and satisfactory, and
we shall now proceed to see how our author has redeemed his promise.

We have read every one of the thirty-seven ballads contained in this volume, and the following
is our synoptical view. Of "original" ballads--by which Mr Sheldon means those which must be
attributed to his own inspired pen, and which constitute, as aforesaid, his votive wreath--there
are no less than thirteen; four ballads are taken from the works of Messrs Mackay, Wilson,
Telfer, and Hall--bards who have flourished during the last twenty years upon the Border; four
are "remodelled" by Mr Sheldon; and sixteen, having no other distinguishing mark upon them,
must be set down as "ancient" compositions. The man who can bestow upon us at the present time
sixteen authentic and hitherto unknown ballads, is indeed a public benefactor!

Out of courtesy to Mr Sheldon, we shall, in the first instance, dispose of his own particular
garland; and as it would be a pity to dismember such a posy, we shall merely lay before our
readers the following morceau from the ballad of "Seton's Sons."

    "Seton he gaspit and he girn'd,
      And showed his teeth sae whyte,
    His een were glaikit like a man's
      That's strycken wi' affryghte.

    Quo' he, 'Lorde Percy, dinna think
      I speak your lugs to blaw;
    But let him spare my twa brave sonnes
      And at his feet I'll fa!

    'And wat them wi' these happing tears
      That wash my auld, auld een,--
    That channel down these wrynkelets,
      Gin he will list bedeen.'

    'My bairnies,' quo' the mother then,
      'That I have kist sae aft,
    Canna we save them frae their death,
      But sic a pryce we coft?

    'Thare pretty necks I've slibbered sae
      Ah! Percy, gentil lord,
    To hae them raxed upon a tree,
      And strangled wi' a cord!'"

Admirers of the ancient ballad--what do you say to that? There is the fine old Scots dialect
in all its purity with a vengeance! In what part of the island such a jargon is spoken, we
are fortunately at present unaware. Certain we are that our fathers never heard it; and as
for ourselves, though reasonably cognizant of the varieties of speech which are current in
Gilmerton, Aberdeen, the Crosscauseway and the Gorbals, we protest that we never yet met with
any thing so cacophonous as this. It is impossible, however, to deny Mr Sheldon the merit of
pure originality. Nobody but himself could have written the first glorious stanza, which embodies
so perfect a picture of despair, or the second, in which the old familiar phrase of "blawing
intill his lug" is so appositely adapted to verse, and put into the mouth of a knightly Scottish
commander. Lady Seton, too, is exquisite in her way. The "slibbering" reminiscence--which,
we presume, is equivalent to slobbering--is one of those natural touches which, once uttered,
can never be forgotten.

It will, we opine, be sufficient to quench the curiosity of our readers, when we state that
the above is a fair average specimen of Mr Sheldon's original productions. We presume that
few will thirst for another draught from this pitcherful of the Border Helicon; and--as time
presses--we shall now push forward to the consideration of the remodelled poetry. The first
of these is called "Halidon Hill," and, as we are informed in the notes, it dates back to the
respectable antiquity of 1827. The following magnificent stanzas will convey some idea of the
spirit and style of that production.

    Glower'd the Scot down on his foe:
      'Ye coof, I cam not here to ride;
    But syne it is so, give me a horse,
      I'll curry thee thine English hide.'

    Quod Benhal, 'I cam to fight a man
      And not a blude mastyff,--
    Were ye a man and no a pup,
      Saint Bride I had as lief.'

    'Foam not, or fret, thou baby knicht,
      Put some food in thy wame,
    For thou art but the champion
      Of some fond Norfolk dame.

    'My dog shall shake thy silken hide,
      Thy brainis prove his fee,
    Gif in that bagie skull of thine
      There any brainis be.'

    'Thou art a bragging piece of clay,
      Sae fyrst wise prove thy threat;'
    Loud geckit Trummall as he cried,
      'I'll mak' thee haggish meat!!'"

Yes, reader--you may well stare! but such is absolutely the rubbish which has been shot from
the Chiswick Press. Next--hear it, ye powers of impudence!--Allan Cunningham's beautiful ballad
of Lady Anne, makes its appearance as "Lady Nell." We need scarcely add that in such hands
the virgin degenerates into a drab. The other remodelments are trash. The "Merchant's Garland"
is a new version by Sheldon of a street ditty called the "Factor's Garland," of which we happen
to have a copy in a collection of penny histories.

    Being well educated, and one of great wit,
    Three merchants of London, they all thought it fit,
    To make him their captain, and factor also,
    And for them to Turkey a voyage he did go."

This is sorry enough doggrel, as every one who has the capacity of reckoning feet upon his
fingers must allow; but Sheldon fairly trumps it. In a fit of enthusiasm, he has enlisted the
name of a friend in the service, and that gentleman must doubtless feel infinitely obliged
for the honour of such immortalisation.

    Now woe befall the cogging die,
      And weary the painted beuks,
    A Christian curse go with all naigs,
      And eke all hounds and cocks.

    Three merchants of great London town,
      To save the youth were bent,
    And they sent him as factor to Turkish ground,
      For the gaming has hym shent."

Poets of the Isle of Muck, did ye ever listen to such a strain? Now let us take a look at the
works of the ancients. The first in point of order is the "Laidley Worm of Spindleston Heugh,"
touching which Mr Sheldon gives us the following information. "This ballad was made by the
old mountain bard, Duncan Fraser of Cheviot, who lived A.D. 1320, and, was first printed some
years ago, from an ancient MS., by Robert Lambe, vicar of Norham." We do not know what exact
time maybe meant by the phrase "some years ago," but the fact is that the "Laidley Worm,"--which
is neither more nor less than a very poor version of the old Scots Ballad, "Kempion"--was,
according to Sir Walter Scott, "either entirely composed, or rewritten, by the Rev. Mr Lamb
of Norham," and had been so often published, that it was not thought worth while to insert
it in the Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border. For the same reason, and for its inferior quality,
it was kept out of Mr S. C. Hall's "Book of British Ballads." Intrinsically it is so bad, that
Mr Sheldon himself might have written it in a moment of extraordinary inspiration; indeed the
following three verses, are in every way worthy of his pen;--

    "He sprinkled her with three drops o' the well,
      In her palace where she stood;
    When she grovelled down upon her belly,
      A foul and loathsome toad.

    And on the lands, near Ida's towers,
      A loathsome toad she crawls,
    And venom spits on every thing,
      Which cometh to the walls.

    The virgins all of Bamborough town,
      Will swear that they have seen
    This spiteful toad of monstrous size,
      Whilst walking in the green."

We are now coolly asked to believe that this stuff was written in the fourteenth century, and
reprinted, seven years ago, from an ancient manuscript. But we must not be surprised at any
thing from a gentleman who seems impressed with the idea that the Chronicles of Roger Hoveden
are written in the English language.

We next come to a ballad entitled "The Outlandish Knight," whereof Mr Sheldon gives us the
following history. "This ballad I have copied from a broadsheet, in the possession of a gentleman
of Newcastle; it has also been published in 'Richardson's Table Book.' The verses with inverted
commas, I added at the suggestion of a friend, as it was thought that the Knight was not rendered
sufficiently odious, without this new trait of his dishonour."

So far well; but Mr Sheldon ought, at the same time, to have had the candour to tell us the
source from which he pilfered those verses. His belief in the ignorance and gullibility of
the public must indeed be unbounded, if he expected to pass off without discovery a vamped
version of "May Collean." That fine ballad is to be found in the collections of Herd, Sharpe,
Motherwell, and Chambers; and seldom, indeed, have we met with a case of more palpable cribbage,
as the following specimen will demonstrate:--

MAY COLLEAN.

    "'Loup off your steed,' says fause Sir John,
      'Your bridal bed you see--
    Here have I drowned eight ladies fair,
      The ninth one you shall be.

    'Cast off,' says he, 'thy jewels fine,
      Sae costly and sae brave;
    They are ower gude, and ower costly,
      To throw in the sea-wave.

    'Cast off, cast off, your Holland smock,
      And lay it on this stone;
    It is ower fine and ower costly,
      To rot in the saut sea-foam.'

    'Oh! Turn ye then about, Sir John,
      And look to the leaf of the tree,--
    It is not comely for a man
      A naked woman to see.'

    He turned himself straight round about,
      To look to the leaf o' the tree;
    She has twined her arms about his waist,
      And thrown him into the sea."

OUTLANDISH KNIGHT.

    "'Alight thee, from thy milk-white steed,
      And deliver it unto me;
    Six maids have I drowned where the billows sound,
      And the seventh one thou shalt be.

    'But first pull off thy kirtle fine,
      And deliver it unto me;
    Thy kirtle of green is too rich I ween
      To rot in the salt, salt sea.

    'Pull off, pull off thy bonny green plaid,
      That floats in the breeze so free,
    It is woven fine with the silver twine,
      And comely it is to see.'

    'If I must pull off my bonny silk plaid,
      Oh turn thy back to me,
    And gaze on the sun which has just begun
      To peer owre the salt, salt sea.'

    He turned his back on the fair damselle,
      And looked upon the beam,--
    She grasped him tight with her arms so white
      And plunged him in the stream."

This, it must be acknowledged, is, to use the mildest phrase, an instance of remarkable coincidence.

Notwithstanding the glibness of his preface, and the scraps of antique information which he
is constantly parading, Mr Sheldon absolutely knows less about ballad poetry than any writer
who has yet approached the subject. As an editor, he was in duty bound to have looked over
former collections, and to have ascertained the originality of the wares which he now proffers
for our acceptance. He does not seem, however, to have read through any one compilation of
the Scottish ballads, and is perpetually betraying his ignorance.

This is a beautiful instance of the discovery of a mare's nest! Mr Sheldon's fragment is merely
an imperfect version of "Captain Wedderburn's Courtship"--one of the raciest and wittiest of
the Scottish ballads, which has been printed over and over again, and is familiar to almost
every child in the country. It is given at full length by Robert Chambers, in his collection,
with this note appended to it:--"This very ingenious and amusing poem, which has been long
popular all over Scotland, first appeared in the 'New British Songster,' a collection published
at Falkirk in 1785. The present copy is taken directly from Jamieson's 'Popular Ballads,' with
the advantage of being collated with one taken from recitation by Mr Kinloch." Such are the
consequences of relying upon the traditions of "eldern women!"

We, have, moreover, a version of "Johnny Faa," of which ballad Mr Sheldon seems to consider
himself the sole discoverer--at least he does not say one word of its notable existence elsewhere.
And we are the more disposed to give him credit for this ignorance, as he hazards an opinion
that "the incidents recorded in this ballad must have occurred in the reign of James the Fifth
of Scotland, or possibly in that of his father James the Fourth, the King of the Commons;"
whereas the story is an historical one, and took place in the times of the Covenant. Be that
as it may, Sheldon's version is certainly the worst that we have seen; and the new stanzas
which he has introduced are utterly loathsome and vulgar. Only think of the beautiful Lady
Cassilis who eloped with a belted knight, being reduced to the level of a hedge-tramper, and
interchanging caresses with a caird!

    "The Countess went down to the ha'
      To hae a crack at them, fairly, O;
    'And och,' she cried, 'I wad follow thee
      To the end o' the world or nearly, O.'

    He kist the Countess' lips sae red,
      And her jimp white waist he cuddled, O;
    She smoothed his beard wi' her lovely hand,
      And a' for her Gipsy laddie, O."

Really we do not think that we ever read any thing in print so intensely abominable as this.

We have no intention of wading through much more of Sheldon's lucubrations--nor is it necessary,
as, after a close examination, we cannot discover one single ancient ballad which is new to
us in the whole collection. One or two, as we have already shown, are old friends in filthy
garments, whose acquaintance we accordingly repudiate. Two or three, such as "Sir John le Sprynge,"
are mere reprints, and the remainder may be shortly characterised as unmitigated trash. It
is rather too much that ditties still redolent of ardent spirits, and distinctly traceable
in their authorship to a drunken horse-couper in Hawick, should be presented to the public
as genuine Border ballads. For example, we are favoured with an effusion called "Loudon Jock's
Courtship," which Mr Sheldon avers to be "a very old ballad, now for the first time published,"
and states that he took it down "from the recital of an old drover, called A. Pringle, who
attended Kelso market." We do not for a moment doubt that this valuable lay was actually pronounced
by the baked lips of Sandy, over half-a-mutchkin of aqua-vitæ in a toll-house; but we decline
to register it as ancient upon the authority of such a Pisistratus. On the contrary, the beast
who composed it was manifestly free of the Vennel, acquainted with every nauseous close in
the old town of Edinburgh, and frequently found at full length upon the Bridge, in a state
of brutal intoxication. The localities are quite unequivocal, and mark the date of its composition.
The "brig," unfortunately for Mr Sheldon, is by no means an ancient structure. No doubt the
ditty is graphic in its way, and full-flavoured enough to turn the stomach of a Gilmerton carter,
as the following specimen will testify:

    "Jock lifted and fought, gat in mony a scrape,
      But it was all the same thing to that rattling chiel,
    He wad aye spoil the horn, or else mak' a spoon,
      The crown o' the causey, a kirk or a mill.

    He rade into Embro' wi' gowd in his pouch,
      To look at the ferlies and houses sae grand;
    The Castle and Holyrood, the lang walk o' Leith,
    Great joy for his coming soon Loudon Jock fand.

    'Twas first hae this gill, and then aye anither,
      Syne bottles o' sma' yill, and baups for his kite;
    And then cam' the feyther o't, sister and brither,
      And Jock stoited awa' at the heel o' the night.

    Jock met wi' a hizzy upon the high brig,
      That looks o'er the yard as he stoited away;
    Jock aye lo'ed a blink o' a bonnie girl's eye,
      And she speer'd at the reiver his fortune to spae.

    But Jock cam' to questions, and being a fallow
      Stout, buirdly and sonsy, he soon pleased her taste,
    And awa' went the twasome, haup-jaup in their daffin',
      Thro' wynds and blind alleys no time for to waste."

Ancient ballad indeed! the minstrel who would venture to chant such a ditty in the Cowgate,
would be cheaply let off with a month's solitary imprisonment on a diet of bread and water.

We pass with pleasure from this medley of balderdash and drivel to the more sober tome of Mr
Collier, because we know that whatever he gives us will at least have the merit of being genuine.
Out of the thousand black-letter broadsides which constitute the Roxburghe collection, the
editor has selected upwards of fifty, and thus states the object of their publication:--"The
main purpose of the ensuing collection is to show, in their most genuine state, the character
and quality of productions written expressly for the amusement of the lower orders, in the
reign of Elizabeth, James, and Charles. Our volume consists of such ordinary materials as formed
the stock of the English ballad-singer, during a period not far short of a century. Many traces
will be found in them of the modes in which they were rendered acceptable to the crowd, when
sung in our most frequented thoroughfares." We need hardly say that the volume is got up with
great care; and it will doubtless be an acceptable addition to the libraries of our literary
epicures: nevertheless, we are free to confess that we were somewhat disappointed with its
contents. We did not, it is true, expect to find, in this quarto, any new historical, or even
romantic ballads of the first or highest class. The literature of Elizabeth and James is remarkably
sterile in productions of this nature; and the few which are intrinsically excellent have long
since become familiar and have lost the gloss of novelty. But the didactic ballad and the canzonet
were then extensively practised, and, with the fugitive poetry of Peele, Marlowe, Greene, and
Lodge in our recollection, we had hoped to recover some valuable specimens of their more obscure
contemporaries. In the voluminous records of the Elizabethan era, we find mention of many poets
who enjoyed a reasonable celebrity at the time, but whose works, devoid of buoyancy, have since
settled into oblivion. We find the names of some of these persons, such as Thomas Churchyard,
who is spoken of in "The Return from Parnassus," attached to poems in Mr Collier's collection;
but we are compelled on perusal to acknowledge that there is much justice in the critical decrees
of time, and that very little which is at all worthy of preservation has been silently permitted
to perish. In an æsthetical point of view, therefore, we cannot expect to derive much advantage
from this reprint of the Roxburghe broadsides. But the antiquary, who has a natural taste for
the cast-off raiment of the world, will doubtless fasten upon the volume; and the critical
commentator may glean from it some scraps of obsolete information. To them accordingly we leave
it, and pass into the glades of Sherwood.

We wonder whether "Robin Hood, that archer good," is as great a favourite in the nursery now
as he was in our younger days? We are afraid not. Our Robin was a mysterious sort of personage,
something between an outlaw and an earl,--a kind of Judge Lynch, who distributed arbitrary
justice beneath the shade of an enormous oak-tree, and who was perpetually confiscating the
moveables of abbots for the exclusive benefit of the poor. Maid Marian we could never distinctly
realise. Sometimes she appeared to us as a soft flaxen-haired beauty, not unlike a lay-figure,
once the property of Mr Giannetti, which we loved in our youth, and to whose memory we still
are constant. Green as emerald was the garb she wore, and the sun loved to shine upon her as
she glided from the shadow of the trysting-tree. But then this fairy personage did not tally
well with the other figures of the group. We could not conceive her associating familiarly
with the gaunt but good-natured Scathelock, and Mutch the miller's son. Summer, too, must pass
away from Sherwood as it does from every sublunary scene. The leaves fall--the birds are mute--the
grass has withered down--and there is snow lying two feet deep in the forest,--and then, wo
is me for poor Marian, shivering in her slight silken kirtle in the midst of a faded bower!
So that we were sometimes compelled per-force to change our fancy, metamorphose Marian into
a formidable Girzy, and provide her with a suit of linsey-woolsey against the weather, and
a pair of pattens big enough to have frightened all the fallow-deer of the forest with their
clatter.

Ivanhoe, however, has played the deuce with our ideal creations, and Robin Hood is now fixed
to us for ever in the guise of the yeoman Locksley. We do not like him half so well as we did
before. He has, in some degree, compromised his character as an outlaw, by entering into an
arrangement with him of the Lion-heart, and he now shoots deer under cover of the kingly license.
The old warfare between Little John and the Sheriff of Nottingham is over, and the amicable
diacylon conceals the last vestige of their feud. Allan-a-Dale has become a gentleman, and
Friar Tuck laid down the quarter-staff, if he has not taken up the breviary.

But if any one wants to know bold Robin as he really was, let him straightway possess himself
of those two delightful volumes for which we are indebted to Mr Gutch. We have here not only
the consecutive series of ballads known as "The Lytell Geste of Robin Hode," but every ballad,
tale, and song, relating to the famous outlaw; and the whole are beautifully illustrated. Mr
Gutch thoroughly understands the duty of an editor, and has applied himself heart and soul
to the task: in consequence, he has given us by far the best collection of English ballads
which for years has issued from the press.

We have said that the English ballads, as a whole, are decidedly inferior to the Scottish.
They are neither, in their individual kinds, so stirring, so earnest, so plaintive, nor so
imaginative, and Chevy Chase is a tame concern when weighed against the Battle of Otterbourne.
But many of them are of great merit, and amongst the very best are those which relate to Robin
Hood, and the three stout bowmen of the North, Adam Bell, Clym of the Clough, and William of
Cloudeslee. Robin has a fair right to be considered the yeoman hero of England, and the representative
of what must have been a tolerably large class of persons throughout the wars of the Roses.
In his history, we can trace a kind of tacit protest against absolute despotism and feudal
oppression. He is the daring freeman of the soil, who will not live under arbitrary law, and
who, in consequence, ends by setting all laws whatever at defiance. He is not a thief, but
a free-booter, and is entitled to receive from posterity whatever credit may be attachable
to such a character. His is, in many respects, a parallel case to that of Rob Roy Macgregor,
though there is far more of deep tragedy as well as of patriotism, interwoven with the history
of the Highland outlaw. Robin asserts no tangible principles beyond active opposition to the
church, and determined hostility to the game-laws. For the first of these tenets Baines would
have fallen down and worshipped him: for the second, John Bright would have clothed his whole
company gratuitously in drab. He is fond of fighting, and ready to take up the cudgels with
any chance customer; but, somehow or other, he has invariably the worst of the encounter. Tinker,
beggar-man, tanner, shepherd, and curtail friar, in succession, bring him to his knees, and
his life would have been many times a forfeit, but for the timely assistance of his horn, which
brought Little John and the rest to the rescue. Guy of Gisborne was, we believe, the only champion
whom he slew unaided, and even in that meeting he was placed in sore jeopardy.

    "Robin was reachless on a root,
      And stumbled at that tide,
    And Guy was quick and nimble withall,
      And hit him upon the side.

    Oh dear Ladye! said Robin Hood,
      That art both mother and may,
    I think it was never man's destiny
      To dye before his day.

    Robin thought on our Ladye dear,
      And soon leapt up againe,
    And straight he came with a backward stroke
      And he Sir Guy hath slaine."

But there is a fine jovial rollocking spirit about the outlawed hero of Sherwood, which endears
Robin to the popular heart of England: and we firmly believe that Shakspeare, when he went
out poaching of a moonlight night, was more actuated by poetical precept and impulse than by
any sensual covetise for the venison of old Sir Thomas Lucy.

Many ingenious persons--nay many excellent poets, have in modern times attempted to imitate
the ancient Scottish ballad, but in no single case has there been a perfect fac-simile produced.
The reason of the failure is obvious. An ingenious person, who is not a poet, could not for
the dear life of him construct a ditty which, in order to resemble its original, must embody
a strain of music, and a burst of heroic or of plaintive passion. It is not, however, by any
means so difficult to imitate the diction: of which we have a notable example in the ballad
of "Childe Ether," which is included in several of the collections. "Childe Alcohol," perhaps,
would have been the better name, if all the circumstances which we have heard relating to its
composition be true; nevertheless it is undeniable that our facetious friends who are chargeable
with this literary sin, have succeeded in producing a very passable imitation, and that their
phraseology at least is faultless. A poet, again, neither can nor ought to imitate, and when
he is writing in earnest the attempt is absolutely hopeless. For every poet has his own style,
and his own unmistakeable manner of thought and of expression, which he cannot cast off at
will. If he imitates, he ceases for the time to be a poet, degenerates into a rhymster, and
his flowers upon close inspection will be found to have been fabricated from muslin.

Very blind indeed must be the man who could mistake "Sir James the Rose" for an ancient Scottish
ballad. Michael Bruce, the author, was more than an ingenious person: he was also a poet, and
had he lived a little longer, and at a period when simplicity in composition was rated at its
true value, he would in all probability have executed something better. But he wanted power,
and that pathos which is indispensable for the composition of a perfect ballad. Even Scott,
when he attempted too close an imitation, failed. The glorious fragment which we have already
quoted, "The Eve of Saint John," "Lochinvar," and others, are not to be considered in the light
of imitations, but as pure outbursts of his own high chivalrous and romantic imagination. But
the third part of "Thomas the Rhymer" is an adaptation to, or continuation of the ancient fragment,
with which, however, in no respect can it possibly compare. Indeed the old ballad stands almost
isolated in poetry, for its wild imaginative strain.

    "She's mounted on her milk-white steed,
      She's ta'en true Thomas up behind;
    And aye, whene'er her bridle rung,
      The steed flew swifter than the wind.

    O they rade on, and further on;
      The steed gaed swifter than the wind,
    Until they reached a desart wide,
      And every land was left behind.

    "Light down, light down, now, true Thomas,
      And lean your head upon my knee,
    Abide and rest a little space,
      And I will show you ferlies three.

    "O see ye not yon narrow road,
      So thick beset with thorns and briers?
    That is the path of righteousness
      Tho' after it but few inquires.

    "And see ye not that bonny road
      That winds about the fernie brae?
    That is the road to fair Elf land,
      Where thou and I this night maun gae.

    "But, Thomas, ye maun hold your tongue,
      Whatever ye may hear or see;
    For if ye speak word in Elfin land
      Ye'll ne'er get back to your ain countrie."

    O they rade on and farther on,
      And they waded through rivers aboon the knee,
    And they saw neither the sun nor moon,
      But they heard the roaring of the sea.

    It was mirk mirk night, and there was nae stern-light,
      And they waded through red blude to the knee,
    For a' the blude that's shed on earth
      Rins through the springs o' that countrie."

The late ingenious Mr Cromek was not, so far as we know, physically blind, but most assuredly
there hung a heavy cloud over his mental light, since he could not discern the burning stamp
of original genius in the fragments which were communicated to him by Allan Cunningham, and
which he published under the title of "Remains of Nithsdale and Galloway Song." Poor Allan
Cunningham has passed away from amongst us, not unknown indeed, nor unhonoured, but without
having received that full meed of praise and fame which was justly his due. For Allan, though
a most industrious man, was far too careless of his poetic reputation, and never could be prevailed
on to collect together those scattered snatches of song, which he had sown with too liberal
a hand in detached and distant places. But the service which he would not render to himself,
has been performed by filial piety; and we now congratulate the public on their possessing,
in a cheap and elegant form, the works of the most tender and pathetic of the Scottish Minstrels
who have arisen since the death of Burns. If this little book does not become a favourite,
and if it does not speedily make its way, not only into every library, but into every farm-steading
of Scotland--if the poems of Allan Cunningham do not become as familiar to the lips, and as
dear to the hearts, of our shepherds and our peasantry, as those of his great predecessor--then
we shall be constrained to believe that the age is indeed an iron one, that the heart of our
beloved country has at last grown cold, and its impulses less fervid than of yore. It is now
nearly thirty years ago--a long, long time to us--since Cromek's collection of Remains was
noticed in this Magazine. Cunningham was then in the flush and zenith of his genius, with years,
as we had fondly hoped, of fame before him, and all the early difficulties which beset the
path of a youthful poet overcome. He was then urged to a diligent cultivation of the glorious
talent he possessed, and to a further development of the seeds of poetry which lay within his
own bosom, and in the spirit of his native land. And surely had Allan acted thus, and confined
himself to the range of literature within which he had few equals and no superior, he would
ere now have gained a lofty and imperishable name. But a mistaken ambition diverted him to
other tasks. He left the field of song to wander through the forest of romance, and we fear
that he lost himself amidst its mazes.

It is upon the present collection of his poems and songs that Cunningham's fame must rest;
and small as is the bulk of the volume, we yet do not hesitate to say that it would be difficult
to point out another containing more lyrics of exquisite beauty, with fewer palpable blemishes.
Cunningham's poetical style is both rare and remarkable. With a singular simplicity of diction,
he combines imagery of the highest kind, and a pathos which at once finds its way to the heart
of every reader. To many of our friends the following ballad may be familiar; but as a new
generation who know less of Allan has arisen since the days of Cromek, we may be excused for
transferring once more to our pages a gem of such purity and lustre.

    "She's gane to dwall in heaven, my lassie,
      She's gane to dwall in heaven;
    'Ye're owre pure,' quo' the voice o' God,
      'For dwalling out o' heaven!'

    O what'll she do in heaven, my lassie?
      O what'll she do in heaven?
    She'll mix her ain thoughts wi' angel's sangs,
      An' make them mair meet for heaven.

    She was beloved by a', my lassie,
      She was beloved by a';
    But an angel fell in love wi' her,
      An' took her frae us a'.

    Lowly there thou lies, my lassie,
      Lowly there thou lies;
    A bonnier form ne'er went to the yird
      Nor frae it will arise!

    Fu' soon I'll follow thee, my lassie,
      Fu' soon I'll follow thee;
    Thou left me nought to covet ahin',
      But took gudeness sel' wi' thee.

    I look'd in thy death-cold face, my lassie,
      I look'd in thy death-cold face;
    Thou seem'd a lily new cut i' the bud,
      An' fading in its place.

    I look'd on thy death-shut eye, my lassie,
      I look'd on thy death-shut eye;
    And a lovelier light, in the brow of heaven,
      Fell Time shall ne'er destroy.

    Thy lips were ruddy and calm, my lassie,
      Thy lips were ruddy and calm;
    But gane was the holy breath o' heaven
      That sang the evening psalm.

    There's naught but dust now mine, lassie,
      There's naught but dust now mine;
    My soul's wi' thee i' the cauld grave,
      An' why should I stay behin'!"

We really must find fault with Mr Peter Cunningham for calling this, and others of his father's
choicest productions, "imitations of the old ballad." They are no more imitations than the
finest poems of Burns, or Hogg, or Motherwell. They are, it is true, written in the Scots dialect,
and they share, along with the old traditional strains, the charm of a sweet simplicity; but
every one of them came direct from the heart of our beloved Allan, and are, in their way, as
truly original compositions as any burst that ever yet was uttered by inspired poet under the
canopy of heaven. Poor old Cromek, who knew as little about the Scottish ballads as Mr Sheldon,
believed them to be ancient, and, we dare say, died in that belief. But every man here, who
knew or cared about the matter, saw at once that such poems as "The Lord's Marie," or "Bonnie
Lady Anne," were neither ancient nor imitated; and accordingly, by the common consent of his
brethren, Allan Cunningham was at once enrolled on the list of the sweet singers of Scotland--and
long and distant be the day when his name shall be forgotten on the flowery braes of Nithsdale,
or the pleasant holms of Dalswinton, which in life he loved so well.

The last work which we have to notice is the collected edition of Motherwell's Poems, which
has just issued from the Glasgow Press, under the auspices of Mr James M'Conechy. William Motherwell
must always stand very high in the list of the minor Scottish poets, and one lyric of his,
"Jeanie Morrison," is as pathetic as any in the language. But of him so much has already been
said in former numbers of MAGA, that we may dispense with present criticism: and we shall merely
draw the attention of the lovers of the supernatural to a more terrific temptation of Saint
Anthony than ever was painted by Teniers. Motherwell was a noted ghost-seer, and few could
beat him in the magic circle. Witness "Elfinland Wud," which is enough to frighten, not a nursery
of children, but a score of bearded callants out of their wits, if they heard it chanted, on
an eerie night, in the dim forests of Glenmore.

THE DEMON LADY.

    "Again in my chamber!
      Again at my bed!
    With thy smile sweet as sunshine,
      And hand cold as lead!
    I know thee! I know thee!
      Nay, start not, my sweet!
    These golden robes shrunk up
      And showed me thy feet;
    These golden robes shrunk up,
      And taffety thin,
    While out crept the emblems
      Of Death and of Sin.

    Bright beautiful devil!
      Pass, pass from me now;
    For the damp dew of death
      Gathers thick on my brow;
    And bind up thy girdle,
      Nor beauties disclose,
    More dazzlingly white
      Than the wreath-drifted snows:
    And away with thy kisses;
      My heart waxes sick,
    As thy red lips, like worms,
      Travel over my cheek!

    Ha! press me no more with
      That passionless hand,
    'Tis whiter than milk, or
      The foam on the strand;
    'Tis softer than down, or
      The silken-leafed flower;
    But colder than ice thrills
      Its touch at this hour.
    Like the finger of death,
      From cerements unroll'd,
    Thy hand on my heart falls
      Dull, clammy, and cold.

    Nor bend o'er my pillow--
      Thy raven-black hair
    O'ershadows my brow with
      A deeper despair;
    These ringlets, thick falling,
      Spread fear through my brain,
    And my temples are throbbing
      With madness again.
    The moonlight! the moonlight!
      The deep-winding bay!
    There are TWO on that strand,
      And a ship far away!

    In its silence and beauty,
      Its passion and power,
    Love breathed o'er the land
      Like the soul of a flower.
    The billows were chiming
      On pale yellow sands,
    And moonshine was gleaming
      On small ivory hands.
    There were bow'rs by the brook's brink,
      And flowers bursting free;
    There were hot lips to suck forth
      A lost soul from me.

    Now mountain and meadow,
      Frith, forest, and river,
    Are mingling with shadows--
      Are lost to me ever.
    The sunlight is fading,
      Small birds seek their nest;
    While happy hearts, flower-like,
      Sink sinless to rest.
    But I!-'tis no matter;
      Ay, kiss cheek and chin;
    Kiss--kiss--thou hast won me,
      Bright, beautiful Sin!"

And now we shall lay down our pen, and bid farewell for a season both to poet and to poetaster.
If any of our young friends who are now setting up as ballad-writers upon their own account,
have a spark of genius within them--and we do think that, with proper training, something might
be made of the lads--let them study the distinctions which we have drawn above, and cultivate
energy and simplicity as the cardinal virtues of composition. Also let them study, but not
copy, the ancient ballad-book: for it is a domain which we have long preserved from poachers,
and if we catch any of them appropriating, remodelling, or transferring from it, we shall beg
an afternoon's loan of THE CRUTCH, and lay the delinquent as low as Sheldon. It may be that
some do not know what is in that ballad-book: if so--let them read the Death of the Douglas
at Otterbourne, and then, if they dare, indulge us with the catastrophe of Harry Hotspur.

    "And then he called his little foot-page,
      And said, 'Run speedilie,
    And fetch my ae dear sister's son,
      Sir Hugh Montgomerie.'

    'My nephew gude,' the Douglas said,
      'What recks the death o' ane!
    Earl Douglas was buriet at the braken-bush,
      And Percy led captive away."

So died in his harness the doughty Earl of Douglas, and never was the fall of a warrior more
greatly commemorated by minstrel, be his age, his land, his birth, or his language what they
may! London: 1847.

A Book of Roxburghe Ballads. Edited by JOHN PAYNE COLLIER, Esq. London: 1847.

A Lytell Geste of Robin Hood. Edited by JOHN MATHEW GUTCH, F.S.A. 2 vols. London: 1847.

Poems and Songs of ALLAN CUNNINGHAM. London: 1847.

The Poetical Works of WILLIAM MOTHERWELL, Second Edition, Enlarged. Glasgow: 1847.

[54] We are indebted for the above extract to the Homeric Ballads, published some years since
in Fraser's Magazine. We hope that some day these admirable translations may be collected together
and published in a separate form.

EPITAPH OF CONSTANTINE KANARIS.

FROM THE GERMAN OF WILHELM MÜLLER.

    I am Constantine Kanaris:
      I, who lie beneath this stone,
    Twice into the air in thunder
      Have the Turkish galleys blown.

    In my bed I died, a Christian,
      Hoping straight with Christ to be;
    Yet one earthly wish is buried
      Deep within the grave with me.

    That upon the open ocean
      When the third Armada came,
    They and I had died together.
      Whirled aloft on wings of flame.

    Yet 'tis something that they've laid me
      In a land without a stain:
    Keep it thus, my God and Saviour,
      Till I rise from earth again!

                    W. E. A.

SCOTTISH MELODIES. BY DELTA.

THE MAID OF ULVA.

    The hyacinth bathed in the beauty of spring,
    The raven when autumn hath darken'd his wing,
    Were bluest and blackest, if either could vie
    With the night of thy hair, or the morn of thine eye,--

    Fair maid of the mountain, whose home, far away,
    Looks down on the islands of Ulva's blue bay;
    May nought from its Eden thy footsteps allure,
    To grieve what is happy, or dim what is pure!

    Between us a foam-sheet impassable flows--
    The wrath and the hatred of clans who are foes;
    But love, like the oak, while the tempest it braves,
    The firmer will root it, the fiercer it raves.

    Not seldom thine eye from the watch-tower shall hail,
    In the red of the sunrise the gleam of my sail,
    And lone is the valley, and thick is the grove,
    And green is the bower, that is sacred to love!

    The snows shall turn black on high Cruachan Ben,
    And the heath cease to purple fair Sonachan glen,
    And the breakers to foam, as they dash on Tiree,
    When the heart in this bosom beats faithless to thee!

LAMENT FOR MACRIMMON.

    Mist wreathes stern Coolin like a cloud,
    The water-wraith is shrieking loud,
    And blue eyes gush with tears that burn,
    For thee--who shall no more return!
      Macrimmon shall no more return,
      Oh never, never more return!
      Earth, wrapt in doomsday flames, shall burn,
      Before Macrimmon home return!

    The wild winds wail themselves asleep,
    The rills drop tear-like down the steep,
    In forest glooms the songsters mourn,
    For thee--who shall no more return!
      Macrimmon shall no more return, &c.

    Even hoar old Ocean joins our wail,
    Nor moves the boat, though bent with sail;
    Fierce shrieking gales the breakers churn,
    For thee--who shall no more return!
      Macrimmon shall no more return, &c.

    No more, at eve, thy harp in hall
    Shall from the tower faint echoes call;
    There songless circles vainly mourn
    For thee--who shall no more return!

THE SCOTCH MARRIAGE BILL.

We trust we have no blind or bigoted admiration of our native institutions, and we willingly
allow that the marriage law of Scotland is not incapable of amendment. Any measure, therefore,
professing to have that object, would receive our attentive consideration; but we should expect
it to be framed with a care and caution corresponding to the grave importance of the social
relations which are to be affected, and in a spirit congenial to the deep moral and religious
convictions which have always been cherished among our countrymen, and which, on this subject
above all others, it is important to preserve unimpaired.

The Bill recently introduced into Parliament "to amend the law of Scotland affecting the constitution
of marriage," appears to us not to possess the recommendations which we think essential to
such an attempt. We consider it, though well intended, to proceed on a partial and imperfect
view of the subject, and to threaten us with the introduction of greater evils than those which
it professes to remedy. We regard it as calculated to destroy or deaden the sacred character
of the conjugal union, and to diminish the solemnity of its obligations; to give new and dangerous
encouragements to precipitate and improper connections; and, more especially as regards young
persons, to create formidable temptations to imprudence or immorality, and fatal facilities
to the designs of adventurers who may seek by marriage to obtain wealth or advancement.

As the Bill is short, we shall insert it as the text of our observations:

"A BILL to amend the Law of Scotland affecting the Constitution of Marriage.

"Provided always, and be it enacted, that nothing herein contained shall affect or be held
or construed to affect the validity of any marriage where the marriage has been solemnised
in presence of a clergyman, or of a party professing to be acting as, and believed to be a
clergyman, or, in the case of Jews, has been solemnised according to the rites observed by
persons professing the Jewish religion, or, in the case of Quakers, according to the rites
or form observed by persons belonging to the Society of Friends commonly called Quakers.

"And be it enacted, that the word 'clergyman' shall include all clergymen or ministers of religion
authorised to solemnise marriage, whether belonging to the established church, or to any other
church, or to any sect or persuasion by whatever name or denomination known.

"And be it enacted, that this act may be amended or repealed by any act to be passed during
the present session of Parliament."

The operation of this Bill, it will be seen, depends so far on the machinery provided by another
Bill which is also now before Parliament, "for registering births, deaths, and marriages, in
Scotland." Into the details of that Bill, it is unnecessary here to enter; find we shall only
mention that it provides for the establishment of resident officers in various districts and
subdistricts in Scotland, who are to keep a book for the formal registration of the events
specified in the title of the Bill. We are no enemies of a judicious system of registration,
though we do not approve of all the enactments of the Bill in question, and we think that they
will require special and close examination before they shall be sanctioned by the Legislature.
But we shall merely insert at present the clause that seems most material for discussing the
merits of the Marriage Bill.

