"I shall be very happy, if I can be of any use," said Lettice, "but I am sorry to say, but
little of my time is at my own disposal--it belongs to another--I can not call it my own--and
my purse is not very ample. But I have more money than time," she added, cheerfully, "at all
events. And, if you will be pleased to point out in what way I can best help this poor creature,
I shall be very much obliged to you, for I am quite longing for the pleasure of doing a little
among the poor. I have been very poor myself; and, besides, I used to visit them so much in
my poor father's day."

"I have more time than money," he said, with a gentle but very melancholy smile; "and, therefore,
if you will give me leave, I would take the liberty of pointing out to you how you could help
this poor woman. If--if I knew...."

"I live with General and Mrs. Melwyn--I am Mrs. Melwyn's dame de compagnie," said Lettice,
with simplicity.

"And I am what ought to be Mr. Thomas's curate," answered he, "but that I am too inefficient
to merit the name. General Melwyn's family never attends the parish church, I think."

"No; we go to the chapel of ease at Furnival's Green. It is five miles by the road to the parish
church, and that road a very bad one. The general does not like his carriage to go there.

"So I have understood; and, therefore, Mr. Thomas is nearly a stranger, and I perfectly one,
to the family, though they are Mr. Thomas's parishioners."

"It seems so strange to me--a clergyman's daughter belonging formerly to a small parish--that
every individual in it should not be known to the vicar. It ought not to be so, I think."

"I entirely agree with you. But I believe Mr. Thomas and the general never exactly understood
or suited each other."

"I don't know--I never heard."

"I am myself not utterly unknown to every member of the family. I was at school with the young
gentleman who married Miss Melwyn.... Yet why do I recall it? He has probably forgotten me
altogether.... And yet, perhaps, not altogether. Possibly he might remember James St. Leger;"
and he sighed.

It was a light, suppressed sigh. It seemed to escape him without his observing it.

Lettice felt unusually interested in this conversation, little as there may appear in it to
interest any one; but there was something in the look and tone of the young man that exercised
a great power over her imagination. His being of the cloth--a clergyman--may account for what
may seem rather strange in her entering into conversation with him. She had been brought up
to feel profound respect for every one in holy orders; and, moreover, the habits of her life
at one time, when she had sunk to such depths of poverty, had, in a considerable degree, robbed
her of the conventional reserve of general society. She had been so used at one time to be
accosted and to accost without thinking of the ceremony of an introduction, that she probably
forgot the absence of it in the present case, more than another equally discreet girl might
have done.

The young man, on his part, seemed under the influence of a strange charm. He continued to
walk by her side, but he had ceased to speak. He seemed lost in thought--melancholy thought.
It certainly would seem as if the allusion to Edgar's home, and his own school life, had roused
a host of painful recollections, in which he was for the time absorbed.

So they followed the windings of the deep hollow lane together. Necessarily it would seem,
for this lane appeared to defy the proverb and have no turning. But that it had one we know--and
to it the little party came at last. A gate led to some fields belonging to the estate of the
Hazels--Lettice and the nurse prepared to open it and enter.

