"What do you say?" asked Mr. Prideaux. "Was it your dog that worried my poor dog last night
when he was upon a message of trust? My friend, let me inform you of the fact that my dog had
a guinea in his mouth to carry to my friend, and rather than drop it, he allowed himself to
be half killed by your savage Tiger. Today he has proved his courage, and your dog has discovered
his mistake. This is the guinea that he dropped from his mouth when he returned to me after
midnight, beaten and distressed!" said Mr. Prideaux, much excited. "Here, Turk, old boy, take
the guinea again, and come along with me! You have had your revenge, and have given us all
a lesson." His master gave him the guinea in his mouth, and they continued their walk.

It appeared, upon Mr. Prideaux's arrival at his friend's house, that Turk had never been there;
probably after his defeat he had become so confused that he lost his way in the heavy storm,
and had at length regained the road home some time after midnight, in the condition already
described.

How to Gain the Full Benefit from Your Reading

The reading of this story, besides giving you pleasure, has no doubt given you a new idea of
the faithfulness often shown by dogs. But if you are to get the full benefit from any story
or poem in this Reader, you will need to pause long enough to notice certain things that will
give you a better understanding of it.

The Crystal Glass, A Forward Look, and A Backward Look.

First, you should read and discuss in class "The Crystal Glass" and study the Table of Contents,
to gain a general idea of the book as a whole. Next, you should notice that each story and
poem is a part of some special group that treats of some one big idea--such as Nature, Home
and Country, etc. Each selection will have a fuller meaning for you if you understand how it
helps to bring out the big idea of this group. Before reading the stories in any group you
should read and discuss in class the "Forward Look" (see page 19) that precedes them. And after
you have read all the selections in a group, you will enjoy a pleasant class period discussing
the "Backward Look"--taking stock, as it were, of the joy and benefit gained from your reading.

In addition, each selection is followed by Notes and Questions that contain some or all of
the following features: Biography. First, it is always desirable to learn something about the
author. When you read, for example, that Samuel White Baker gave the best years of his life
to a study of animals, you feel that his story of the dog's faithfulness is well worth reading.
Discussion. Next, if you will read the story so carefully that you can answer the questions
given under the topic Discussion, you will probably find it easier to understand certain incidents.
For example, you hear much about the word "service" in the different wars in which American
soldiers have served their country so nobly. But perhaps when you think of the answer to the
third question you will see more clearly than before that "service" and "faithfulness" are
qualities that are shown not only on the battlefield but in humble walks of life--sometimes
even by animals. Glossary. One of the benefits that should result from reading is the learning
of new words. At the end of the Discussion you will find a list of words, the meaning of which
you are to look up in the Glossary, and a second list that you should find out how to pronounce.
Many of these words you may feel certain you know how to pronounce correctly. But perhaps you
have been mispronouncing some of them. Look up in the glossary the words listed under question
9, and you may find that you have been mispronouncing calm, hearth, or extraordinary. When
you are looking up words in the pronunciation lists, be sure that you understand the meaning,
also. Besides the individual words that you do not understand, you will sometimes read a phrase,
or group of words, used in some special sense. The most striking are listed under the topic
Phrases for Study. Look them up in the Glossary, for you will often find the hardest passage
of the reading lesson made easy by the explanation of a single phrase.

NOTES AND QUESTIONS

Biography. Samuel White Baker (1821-1893) was an English engineer and author. At the age of
twenty-four he went to Ceylon, where he soon became known as an explorer and hunter of big
game. With his wife he later explored the region of the Nile River. He is the author of True
Tales for My Grandsons, from which "Turk, the Faithful Dog" is taken.

Discussion. 1. How does this story prove the intelligence of Turk? 2. How does it prove his
fidelity? 3. Here are two qualities that every man should desire to possess; do you think many
men, set upon by robbers, would act as bravely and as faithfully as Turk? Give reasons for
your answer. 4. What do you know of the author? 5. Class readings: The conversation between
Mr. Prideaux and the butcher, (2 pupils). 6. Outline for testing silent reading. Tell the story
in your own words, using these topics: (a) Turk's adventure; (b) how the mystery was explained.
7. You will enjoy reading "Cap, the Red Cross Dog" (in Stories for Children, Faulkner). 8.
Find in the Glossary the meaning of: alert; mission; dejected; besmeared; brindled; docile;
relaxed; crestfallen. 9. Pronounce: hearthrug; anecdote; guinea; toward; extraordinary; calm.

Phrases for Study:

intimate association, of a serious nature, imply a share of reason, received in trust, supported
the dog's chances, succeeded to the gloom.

OUR UNINVITED GUEST

Ernest Harold Baynes

"Jimmy," our young black bear, was known to every child in the neighborhood. If a children's
vote had been taken for the most popular animal in the county, I believe that Jimmy would have
been unanimously elected. If the grown people had held the election, however, it is certain
that there would have been some votes against him. For example, when Mr. W--, one of our neighbors,
came home very late one night, got into bed in the dark, and unwittingly kicked a bear cub
that had climbed in at a window earlier in the evening, of course he had his toes nipped. That
man would never have voted for Jimmy.

Neither would the farmer's wife he met one evening coming from the barn with a pail of new
milk. The weather was warm, Jimmy was thirsty, and he was particularly fond of new milk. So
he stood on his hind legs, threw his arms around the pail, and sucked up half the contents
before the good woman had recovered from her astonishment. But with the children he was a great
favorite. He was one of them, and they understood him. Like them he was full of fun and mischief,
and he would play as long as anyone cared to play with him.

One Christmas we gave a children's party, and perhaps a score of girls and boys came to spend
the evening. As it was not possible to make Jimmy understand about the party, he went to bed
early, as usual, and was asleep in his own den under the porch long before the first guests
arrived. He was not forgotten by his little friends, however, and "Where's Jimmy?" was the
first question asked by almost every child as he came in. But there was so much to chatter
about, and there were so many games to play, that absent comrades--even Jimmy--were soon out
of mind.

At last supper was ready, and all the children trooped into the dining-room and took their
places at the long table.

For a little while everyone was so busy that there was little to be heard except the clatter
of forks and spoons and plates. I stood at the end of the room, enjoying the fun. For the moment,
my eyes were on a small boy who seemed to be enjoying himself even more than the rest. He was
making more noise than anyone else, and at the same time performing remarkable sleight-of-mouth
tricks with a large piece of cake and a plate of ice cream. Suddenly, I saw his face change.
His laugh was cut in two, his smile faded, the remains of the cake fell to his plate, and a
spoonful of ice cream, on its way to his open mouth, remained suspended in the air. He was
facing a window, and as I followed his gaze, I saw a hairy black face, with a tawny muzzle
and a pair of small shining black eyes, looking eagerly into the room. It was the bear cub,
whose slumbers had been disturbed by the noise, and who had come to see what it was all about.

In an instant the room was in an uproar. All the children left the table at once, and crowded
around the window yelling--"Jimmy!" "It's Jimmy!" "Let him in!" "Don't you do it!" "Keep him
out!" "Open the window!" "Give him some cake!" One little boy, with a piece of cake in his
hand, raised the window just a little. That was enough for Jimmy; he thrust his strong muzzle
under the sash, raised it with one jerk of his head, and came tumbling into the room. How those
children yelled and scattered! While they all thought it good fun to have the cub at the party,
none of them knew just what he would do, and some; especially among the younger ones, were
decidedly nervous. A small girl hid behind the window curtains, two little boys scurried upstairs
and peeped through the banisters, and another, by means of a chair, scrambled to the top of
a sideboard. But Jimmy had his own ideas about a party. His first interest was in the supper
table. Standing up on his hind legs, he placed his forepaws on the cloth. Just in front of
him was a plate with some apple jelly on it. One sweep of his long tongue and the plate was
almost as clean as if it had been washed. A dish of blancmange was the next to be gobbled up,
and then a boy rather bolder than the rest made an attempt to save the cake. He seized the
intruder by the skin of his neck, but except for a loud, grumbling protest, the bear paid no
attention to him. He walked right along, pulling the boy with him, and one slice of cake after
another disappeared down the black throat. The little girl behind the curtains, seeing that
Jimmy did not intend to hurt anyone, came from her hiding place to try to help the boy who
was holding him. Now this little girl had been eating strawberry jam, and as little girls sometimes
do, had left some of it on her lips. The moment she touched him, Jimmy turned, and seeing and
smelling the jam, he caught the child in his short forearms, and in spite of her screams, licked
her face all over before letting her go. Then he reached for the sugar basin, lifted it from
the table with his paws, and sat down on his haunches to devour the contents.

By this time the children who had been nervous were quite at their ease again, and gathered
round to see him eat the sugar. In a few moments he had satisfied his hunger, and was ready
to play. First of all he acted as if he had lost his wits; or as if he wanted to "show off,"
which is about the same thing. He rolled over on his back, turned somersaults, and batted the
chairs and the table legs with his paws. The children got down on the floor to romp with him,
and together they had a merry time.

When they were all upon their feet again, Jimmy arose and stood perfectly straight on his hind
legs. Then he picked out a girl about his own height and took a step toward her, raising his
paws as though inviting her to a boxing match. The girl accepted the challenge, and as she
was strong, she held her own very well for a time. But as Jimmy warmed up to his work, he became
very rough and swung his heavy paws as hard as he could. At last he gave his playmate a stinging
slap on the side of her face, and she decided not to play any more. And as I thought that Jimmy
had had about enough fun for one evening, I opened the door, and he galloped off to his den
under the porch.

NOTES AND QUESTIONS

Biography. Ernest Harold Baynes (1868-1925), the naturalist-author, lived in Meriden, New Hampshire.
He was the author of the interesting book Wild Bird Guests, and of "Our Animal Allies" (in
Harper's Magazine, January, 1921). During the World War I Mr. Baynes was in France, studying
the part that birds and animals played in helping to win the war. Wherever he went he organized
bird clubs, in order to protect our wild birds.

Discussion. 1. Why was Jimmy not popular with the farmer's wife? 2. Why do you think the children
liked the bear? 3. Do you think they would have enjoyed the party more, or less, if there had
been no "uninvited guest"? 4. Class readings: The description of the supper, page 31, line
7, to page 32, line 26. 5. Outline for testing silent reading. Tell the story of the "uninvited
guest," using these topics: (a) the bear and how he was liked; (b) the bear's actions at the
children's party; (c) the boxing match. 6. You will find interesting stories in Bear Stories
Retold from St. Nicholas, Carter, and in The Biography of a Grizzly, Seton. 7. Find in the
Glossary the meaning of: unanimously; unwittingly; sleight-of-mouth; tawny; muzzle; intruder.
Pronounce: blancmange; haunches. Down this they plunged with surefootedness was a marvel.

NOTES AND QUESTIONS

Biography. Theodore Roosevelt (1858-1919), twenty-sixth President of the United States, was
born in New York City. As a boy he was frail of body, but overcame this handicap by regular
exercise and outdoor life. He was always interested in animals and birds and particularly in
hunting game in the western plains and mountains. In 1884 Roosevelt bought two cattle ranches
in North Dakota, where for two years he lived and entered actively into western life and spirit.
Two of the books in which he has recorded his western experience: The Deer Family and The Wilderness
Hunter, from the latter of which "Hunting the American Buffalo" is taken.

Discussion. 1. What makes this story "exciting," or "thrilling"? 2. How does the writer let
you know his feelings? 3. What proof of Roosevelt's good sportsmanship is found in the second
paragraph on page 34? 4. Class reading: From page 35, line 3, to page 36, line 13. 5. Outline
for testing silent reading. Tell the story briefly, using these topics: (a) the discovery;
(b) the pursuit; (c) the first view; (d) the end of the story. 6. Find in the Glossary the
meaning of: day-beds; glade; skirted; yearling; trophy. 7. Pronounce: bison; boundary; frequented;
knoll; melancholy; remnant; incline; strewn.

Phrases for Study pack train, hawk-eyed eagerness, frowning pine forest, commanding lookout,
much frequented, down timber, thick zigzags, obscured their passage.

BIRDS AND THEIR SONGS

THE BIRDS AND I

Liberty H. Bailey

The springtime belongs to the birds and me. We own it. We know when the mayflowers and the
buttercups bloom. We know when the first frogs peep. We watch the awakening of the woods. We
are wet by the warm April showers. We go where we will, and we are companions. Every tree and
brook and blade of grass is ours; and our hearts are full of song.

There are boys who kill the birds, and girls who want to catch them and put them into cages,
and there are others who steal their eggs. The birds are not partners with them; they are only
servants. Birds, like people, sing for their friends, not for their masters. I am sure that
one cannot think much of the springtime and the flowers if his heart is always set upon killing
or catching something. We are happy when we are free, and so are the birds.

The birds and I get acquainted all over again every spring. They have seen strange lands in
the winter, and all the brooks and woods have been covered with snow. So we run and romp together,
and find all the nooks and crannies which we had half-forgotten since October. The birds remember
the old places. The wrens pull the sticks from the old hollow rail and seem to be wild with
joy to see the place again. They must be the same wrens that were here last year, for strangers
could not make so much fuss over an old rail. The bluebirds and wrens look into every crack
and corner for a place in which to build, and the robins and chirping-sparrows explore every
tree in the old orchard.

If the birds want to live with us, we should encourage them. The first thing to do is to leave
them alone. Let them be as free from danger and fear as you and I. Take the hammer off the
old gun, give pussy so much to eat that she will not care to hunt for birds, and keep away
the boys who steal eggs and who carry sling-shots and throw stones. Plant trees and bushes
about the borders of the place, and let some of them, at least, grow into tangles; then, even
in the back yard, the wary catbird may make its home.

NOTES AND QUESTIONS

Biography. Liberty Hyde Bailey (1858-1954) has written many books on Nature and outdoor life.
He was chairman of the Commission on Country Life, appointed by Roosevelt.

Discussion. 1. Why does the author say that the springtime belongs to "the birds and me"? 2.
When may we say the birds are our partners and when our servants? 3. What different ways of
dealing with birds are spoken of? Which way does the writer prefer? 4. How may you encourage
the birds to live near you? 5. What do you gain if you persuade them to do this? Find an answer
to this question in the poems that follow. 6. What birds come to trees near your home? 7. How
are birds helpful to men? 8. You will find interesting stories and pictures of birds in The
Burgess Bird Book for Children, Burgess. 9. Find in the Glossary the meaning of: acquainted;
explore; wary. 10. Pronounce: partners; again.

NOTES AND QUESTIONS

Biography. Lucy Larcom (1826-1893) was the daughter of a sea captain. During twenty years of
teaching school, she wrote many charming poems for children.

Discussion. 1. Who is supposed to be speaking in the first two lines? 2. Who asks the question
in the third line? 3. Who answers the question? 4. Find the answer to the question in the first
stanza. 5. Why is the little bird so happy? 6. What will make him unhappy? 7. How can you help
to make the world "run over with joy"? 8. You will enjoy hearing "Songs of Our Native Birds"
and "How Birds Sing", Victor records by Kellogg.

SING ON, BLITHE BIRD

WILLIAM MOTHERWELL

I've plucked the berry from the bush, the brown nut from the tree, But heart of happy little
bird ne'er broken was by me. I saw them in their curious nests, close couching, slyly peer
With their wild eyes, like glittering beads, to note if harm were near; I passed them by, and
blessed them all; I felt that it was good To leave unmoved the creatures small whose home was
in the wood.

And here, even now, above my head, a lusty rogue doth sing; He pecks his swelling breast and
neck, and trims his little wing. He will not fly; he knows full well, while chirping on that
spray, I would not harm him for a world, or interrupt his lay. Sing on, sing on, blithe bird!
and fill my heart with summer gladness; It has been aching many a day with measures full of
sadness!

NOTES AND QUESTIONS

Biography. William Motherwell (1797-1835), a Scotch poet and journalist, was born in Glasgow,
where he lived and died. In 1830 he became editor of the Glasgow Courier. He wrote a volume
of local ballads, and many of his poems were published in the magazines and newspapers.

Discussion. 1. To what does the poet compare the eyes of birds? 2. Find the lines that tell
why the bird is not afraid of the poet. 3. How do you think the birds know their friends? 4.
What happiness does the poet get because of his kindness to the birds? 5.

6. You will find helpful suggestions in the illustrated Farmers' Bulletins, Bird Houses and
How to Build Them, and How to Attract Birds, sent free by the Department of Agriculture, Washington,
DC. 7. In the Forward Look, on pages 19 and 20, you were told that the poets and wise story
writers of Nature help us to see the beauty that lies in the great outdoor world. Mention instances
of help that you have received from the stories and poems you have read in this group. 8. Find
in the Glossary the meaning of: glittering; trims; spray; blithe; measures.

Phrases for Study: close couching, lusty rogue, note if harm were near, knows full well, leave
unmoved, interrupt his lay.

THE VIOLET AND THE BEE

John Bannister Tabb

    "And pray, who are you?"
    Said the Violet blue
    To the Bee, with surprise,
    At his wonderful size,
    In her eyeglass of dew.
    "I, madam," quoth he,
    "Am a publican Bee,
    Collecting the tax
    Of honey and wax.
    Have you nothing for me?"

NOTES AND QUESTIONS

Biography. Reverend John B. Tabb (1845-1909), a Southern poet, was born near Richmond, Virginia.
All his life he was interested in birds, flowers, and outdoor life. When the Civil War began,
he joined the Southern army, although he was a mere lad of sixteen. After the war he became
a clergyman and a teacher.

Discussion. 1. What did the Violet ask the Bee? 2. What surprised the Violet? 3. What is the
Violet's "eyeglass of dew"? 4. Find in the Glossary the meaning of: quoth; publican; tax.

NOTES AND QUESTIONS

Biography. Ella Higginson (1862-1940), an American writer, lived in Bellingham, on Puget Sound,
Washington. She won a prize of five hundred dollars, offered by a magazine for the best short
story.

Discussion. 1. To whom is the four-leaf clover supposed to bring good luck? 2. Which do you
think will give greater happiness, to learn something by hard work or to gain it by chance?
Why do you think so? 3. What does the poem say we must have? 4. What does the poem say we must
do? 5. If we have all these things and do all these things, shall we need to hunt for the four-leaf
clover to bring us good fortune? Why? 6. Commit the poem to memory.

JACK IN THE PULPIT

Clara Smith

    Jack in the pulpit
    Preaches today,
    Under the green trees
    Just over the way.
    Squirrel and song-sparrow,
    High on their perch,
    Hear the sweet lily-bells
    Ringing to church.
    Come hear what his reverence
    Rises to say
    In his low, painted pulpit
    This calm Sabbath day.

    Meek-faced anemones,
    Drooping and sad;
    Great yellow violets,
    Smiling out glad;
    Buttercups' faces,
    Beaming and bright;
    Clovers with bonnets,
    Some red and some white;
    Daisies, their white fingers
    Half-clasped in prayer;
    Dandelions, proud of
    The gold of their hair;
    Innocents, children
    Guileless and frail,

    Meek little faces
    Upturned and pale;
    Wildwood geraniums,
    All in their best,
    Languidly leaning,
    In purple gauze dressed--
    All are assembled
    This sweet Sabbath day
    To hear what the priest
    In his pulpit will say.

    So much for the preacher;
    The sermon comes next--
    Shall we tell how he preached it
    And where was his text?
    Alas! like too many
    Grown-up folks who play
    At worship in churches
    Man-builded today,
    We heard not the preacher
    Expound or discuss;
    But we looked at the people
    And they looked at us.
    We saw all their dresses--
    Their colors and shapes,
    The trim of their bonnets;
    The cut of their capes;
    We heard the wind-organ,
    The bee, and the bird,
    But of Jack in the pulpit
    We heard not a word!

NOTES AND QUESTIONS

Biography. Clara Smith is not a well-known writer, but her poem, "Jack in the Pulpit," is full
of beauty. The rhythm is as pleasing as the picture is charming.

Discussion. 1. What time of year is described in this poem? 2. Who make up the congregation
when Jack in the pulpit preaches? 3. How does the poet make the flowers seem like people? 4.
How many of the flowers described in this poem are familiar to you? 5. Which flower is most
beautifully described? Find the lines that give the description. 6. Why are we not told about
the sermon? 7. What was the congregation doing during the sermon? 8. What did they see? What
did they hear? 9. Find in the Glossary the meaning of: drooping; beaming; gauze; assembled;
text; worship; expound. 10. Pronounce: anemones; guileless; languidly.

Phrases for Study: his reverence, all in their best, painted pulpit, man-builded today.

SEPTEMBER

Helen Hunt Jackson

    The goldenrod is yellow;
    The corn is turning brown;
    The trees in apple orchards
    With fruit are bending down.

    The gentian's bluest fringes
    Are curling in the sun;
    In dusky pods the milkweed
    Its hidden silk has spun.

    The sedges flaunt their harvest
    In every meadow-nook;
    And asters by the brookside
    Make asters in the brook.

    From dewy lanes at morning
    The grapes' sweet odors rise;
    At noon the roads all flutter
    With yellow butterflies.

    By all these lovely tokens
    September days are here,
    With summer's best of weather,
    And autumn's best of cheer.

NOTES AND QUESTIONS

Biography. Helen Hunt Jackson (1831-1885) was an American poet and novelist. She was born in
Amherst, Massachusetts, where her father was a professor in Amherst College, but she spent
much of her life in California. She married a banker in Colorado Springs, Colorado, where she
lived for a few years. Her poems are very beautiful, and "September" and "October's Bright
Blue Weather" are especially good pictures of these autumn months. Every child should know
these poems by heart.

Discussion. 1. What is meant by the harvest of the sedges? 2. How are the "asters in the brook"
made? 3. Which lines in the last stanza tell us what September brings? 4. What things mentioned
in this poem have you seen? 5. Read again what is said on pages 19 and 20 about the poet as
a magician; what beauty of Nature does the poet show you in the following lines?

    "And asters by the brookside
    Make asters in the brook."

6. Find in the Glossary the meaning of: sedges; flaunt; flutter. 7. Pronounce: gentian; dusky.

Phrases for Study: dusky pods, lovely tokens, hidden silk has spun, best of cheer.

OCTOBER'S BRIGHT BLUE WEATHER

Helen Hunt Jackson

    O sun and skies and clouds of June
    And flowers of June together,
    Ye cannot rival for one hour
    October's bright blue weather;

    When loud the bumblebee makes haste,
    Belated, thriftless vagrant,
    And goldenrod is dying fast,
    And lanes with grapes are fragrant;

    When gentians roll their fringes tight,
    To save them for the morning,
    And chestnuts fall from satin burs
    Without a sound of warning;

    When on the ground red apples lie
    In piles like jewels shining,
    And redder still on old stone walls
    Are leaves of woodbine twining;

    When all the lovely wayside things
    Their white-winged seeds are sowing,
    And in the fields, still green and fair,
    Late aftermaths are growing;

    When springs run low, and on the brooks
    In idle, golden freighting,
    Bright leaves sink noiseless in the hush
    Of woods, for winter waiting;

    When comrades seek sweet country haunt
    By twos and twos together,
    And count like misers hour by hour
    October's bright blue weather.

    O sun and skies and flowers of June,
    Count all your boasts together,
    Love loveth best of all the year
    October's bright blue weather.

NOTES AND QUESTIONS

For Biography see above.

Discussion. 1. What comparison is made in the first stanza between June and October? 2. Why
is the bumblebee described as "loud"? 3. Compare the description of the goldenrod in this poem
with the description of the goldenrod in "September." 4. Compare the description of the apples
in this poem with the description of the apples in "September." 5. Find the line that tells
why the "gentians roll their fringes tight." 6. What is the color of the woodbine leaves? 7.
What are the "wayside things" usually called? 8. What do good comrades like to do in October?
9. Why are we sorry to have October go? 10. Find in the Glossary the meaning of: fragrant;
twining; aftermath; haunts. 11. Pronounce: rival; vagrant; freighting.

Phrases for Study: rival for one hour, hush of woods, belated, thriftless vagrant, count like
misers, satin burs, count all your boasts, idle, golden freighting.

NOVEMBER

Alice Cary

    The leaves are fading and falling;
    The winds are rough and wild;
    The birds have ceased their calling--
    But let me tell you, my child,

    Though day by day, as it closes,
    Doth darker and colder grow,
    The roots of the bright red roses
    Will keep alive in the snow.

    And when the winter is over,
    The boughs will get new leaves,
    The quail come back to the clover,
    And the swallow back to the eaves.

    The robin will wear on his bosom
    A vest that is bright and new,
    And the loveliest wayside blossom
    Will shine with the sun and dew.

    The leaves today are whirling;
    The brooks are all dry and dumb--
    But let me tell you, my darling,
    The spring will be sure to come.

    There must be rough, cold weather,
    And winds and rains so wild;
    Not all good things together
    Come to us here, my child.

    So, when some dear joy loses
    Its beauteous summer glow,
    Think how the roots of the roses
    Are kept alive in the snow.

NOTES AND QUESTIONS

Biography. Alice Cary (1820-1871), an American poet, was born in Cincinnati. She and her sister,
Phoebe, wrote many beautiful poems and sketches. They removed to New York City and lived together
there. "November" is one of Alice Cary's most widely known poems.

Discussion. 1. What signs of autumn are mentioned in the first stanza? 2. What signs of the
coming winter are mentioned in the second stanza? 3. Where have the birds gone? 4. What is
meant by the word "here" in line 4, above? 5. Why are the brooks "dry and dumb" in November?
6. Is this true in all parts of the country? 7. What are we told about the spring in "October's
Bright Blue Weather"? 8. What will happen when the winter is over? 9. Where does the swallow
build his nest? 10. What wonder of Nature, about which you read in A Forward Look, above, does
the second stanza tell you? 11. How can the snow help keep the roots alive? 12. In what stanza
is this thought repeated? 13. Find in the Glossary the meaning of: fading; quail; eaves.

Phrases for Study: ceased their calling, wayside blossom, vest that is bright, beauteous summer
glow.

    Behold it aforetime
    No eye ever did;
    So soon it forever
    From all eyes is hid.

NOTES AND QUESTIONS

Biography. Thomas Carlyle (1795-1881) was a great Scotch writer of essays and history. He lived
in Edinburgh, and later in London.

Discussion. 1. Find the lines that explain why the day is called a "new day." 2. Find the lines
which remind us that the day will pass quickly. 3. The poet tells us in the first stanza to
"think"; what does he want us to think about? 4. Find the same lines in another stanza. Why
did the poet repeat these words? 5. Read the short story that follows, and tell whether Titus
and the poet have the same, idea of a "useless" day.

The Roman Emperor, Titus, won the love of all his people by his kindness and generosity to
those who were in trouble. One night at supper, remembering that he had not helped anyone that
day, he exclaimed, "My friends, I have lost a day!"

Phrases for Study: behold it aforetime blue day.

NOTES AND QUESTIONS

Biography. Francis William Bourdillon (1852-1921) an English poet, lived at Buddington, England.
He attended college at Oxford. Few poets have written more beautiful lines than his "The Night
Has a Thousand Eyes."

Discussion. 1. What are the eyes of the night? 2. What is the eye of the day? 3. How many eyes
does the poet say the mind has? 4. How many eyes does he say the heart has? 5. In which line
are we told what the eye of the heart is? 6. In A Forward Look, above, you read that the poet
is a magician whose words open for us the fairyland of Nature; what have the words of this
poet done for you? 7. Memorize the poem.

A BACKWARD LOOK

As you look backward over the animal stories you have read in this group, which did you enjoy
most? Which story would be the most interesting to tell to a younger brother or sister? Which
do you like better, stories in which animals are the actors, or stories about the hunting of
animals?

Which one of the poems about birds has lines in it that sound like the bird's song? Which author
makes you feel most keenly his love for birds? Which one tells you of pleasures that birds
enjoy? Make a program for Arbor and Bird Day from selections found or suggested in this group.

In the "Notes and Questions" you have found a number of suggestions for outside reading. Did
you find in the school library or public library any of the books that are mentioned in the
different biographies? In your class, who has read Baker's True Tales for My Grandsons, or
other selections mentioned in the biographies or elsewhere? What progress have you made in
silent reading?

If you were making a blackboard calendar for each of the months--September, October, and November--what
stanzas in each of the three poems on these months would give you ideas for decoration? Select
a stanza from these poems as a motto for each of your calendars. November teaches Alice Caw
a truth which she passes on to us; what is this truth?

On pages 19 and 20 you read that the world of Nature is a fairyland, and that the poets help
us to see the beauty that lies about us. Perhaps now when you look up into a starry sky you
say to yourself almost without thinking, "The night has a thousand eyes--" What other poems
have revealed beauties of Nature to you?

A FORWARD LOOK

Here is matter for your entertainment. Several interesting persons will appear and will show
you that a small part of the joy of reading consists in the merry tales that you may find in
books. One of the English poets somewhere calls upon the spirits of fun and joy, a cheerful
nymph and her companions, to drive dull care away. This poet, John Milton by name, wrote many
poems and prose works on very serious matters. He lived in a serious time, the time when many
Englishmen were leaving their native country and emigrating to America in order that they might
find a freedom that was denied to them at home.

But even under these circumstances, sympathizing with those who went into exile for freedom,
and studying night and day how he could himself advance the cause of liberty, John Milton was
too great a man to believe that life is altogether serious and earnest. Humor and jesting and
wholesome fun have a part in every life; they are no more to be neglected than the spices in
a Thanksgiving pie. So the poet called upon the cheerful nymph and her attendants to help him
see the brighter side of life; the fun that there is in foolishness, and the health that comes
with a hearty laugh.

Now let us imagine that we, also, are inviting these kindly spirits of Mirth. Our lives are
serious, too. We have arithmetic to learn, or we have a composition to write. People expect
us to do all sorts of things that take our time, and of course we want to do these things.
But here comes Laughter holding both his sides, a fat old gentleman who makes you feel merry
the moment you set eyes on him. And Father Laughter first introduces the Baron Munchausen,
who will tell some of his marvelous experiences. We are not compelled to believe all of them.
Perhaps Father Laughter wanted to take a sly dig or two at the yarns some travelers tell when
they get home. By this means the story illustrates one of the great sources of humor--monstrous
exaggeration. It also shows what a foolish thing it is to be a boaster. Most people, at one
time or another, are tempted to brag about their deeds, their possessions, or their smartness.
If they would only think of Baron Munchausen, they would flee from this temptation.

After this comes a story about the blind men and the elephant. Here Father Laughter gets his
way with you by making you see how absurd were the guesses about the elephant made by men who
knew only the animal's trunk, or his tusks, or his tail. And here, too, after you have laughed
heartily at the foolish fellows who were so positive that they knew everything when they knew
nothing, you begin to see the danger in what are called "snap judgments." "Look at these ridiculous
fellows," says Father Laughter, "and consider how silly it is to jump to a conclusion unless
you have all the facts."

You will agree that Father Laughter's next performer, Darius Green, is especially interesting
in these days when men fly across the Atlantic or from New York to San Francisco. Darius seems
to have been the first "bird-man," and though he was absurd enough, he reminds one of the fact
that many useful inventions that now add to our comfort were prepared for by men who seemed
to their friends and acquaintances crazy enough.

But this is introduction a-plenty; there's really no need to keep you any longer from getting
acquainted with Father Laughter and the antics he likes to play.

ADVENTURES OF BARON MUNCHAUSEN

R. E. Raspe

The Savage Boar

Baron Munchausen had feasted his friends right well, and after supper he leaned back in his
chair and said, "So you want me to tell you of my adventures in the past." His guests eagerly
urged him on, and he began his story.

Once, when I was returning from a hunt, with an empty gun (having used all my ammunition),
a raging wild boar rushed at me. Well, you know how unpleasant such an encounter may be, so
I am sure none of you will think me a coward for hastily climbing the nearest tree; it was
a young birch which could hardly bear my weight. The boar made a dash for the tree, but was
a moment too late, for I had just drawn my legs out of his reach. But so violent was his rush
that his tusks went through the trunk of the tree and projected an inch through the other side.
I slid down the tree, picked up a stone the size of my fist, and riveted down the projecting
points of the tusks. You can imagine what a narrow escape I had when I tell you that the beast
weighed five tons--a good deal for a wild boar."

A Narrow Escape

"At another time, when I was hunting in Ceylon, I was terrified to see a gigantic lion approaching,
with the evident intention of devouring me. My gun was only loaded with bird-shot, and I had
no other about me. The savage animal shook his head several times, uttered a loud roar, and
prepared to spring. I turned to flee, and--my flesh creeps even now at the recollection of
it--there, on the bank of a river that lay behind me, was a huge crocodile with his terrible
jaws open ready to swallow me!

"Imagine, gentlemen, the horror of my situation--before me the lion, behind me the crocodile,
on my left a rushing torrent, and on the right an abyss full of poisonous snakes! I gave myself
up for lost, and fell to the ground in an almost fainting condition, expecting nothing better
than to meet with a horrible death from one or the other of these terrible animals.

