Just as within the body of "Mother Morning Glory" (See Fig. 15) may be found the ovary or seed
bed, so there are two wonderfully organized bodies about the size of large almonds found in
the lower part of the female abdomen on either side of the uterus, and connected to it by two
sensitive tubes. There ripens in one of these bodies each month a human baby-seed, which finds
its way to the uterus through the little fallopian tube and is apparently lost in the debris
of cells and mucus which, with the accompanying hemorrhage go to make up the menstrual flow.
This continues from puberty to menopause, each gland alternatingly ripening its ovum, only
to lose it in the periodical phenomenon of menstruation, which is seldom interrupted save by
that still more wonderful phenomenon of conception.

At the time of conception, countless numbers of male germ-cells (sperms) are lost--only one
out of the multitude of these perfectly formed sperms made up of the mosaics of hereditary
depressors, determiners, and suppressors that so subtly dictate and determine the characteristics
and qualifications of the on-coming individual--I repeat, only one of these wonderful sperms
finds the waiting ovum (Fig. 1). In this search for the ovum, the sperm propels itself forward
by means of its tail--for the male sperm in general appearance very much resembles the little
pollywog of the rain barrel (Fig. 1).

The fateful meeting of the sperm and the ovum takes place usually in the upper end of one of
the fallopian tubes. It is a wonderful occasion. The wide-awake, vibrating lifelike sperm plunges
head first and bodily into the ovum. The tail, which has propelled this bundle of life through
the many wanderings of its long and perilous journey, now no longer needed, drops off and is
lost and forgotten. This union of the male and female sex cells is called "fertilization."
There immediately follows the most complete blending of the two germ cells--one from the father
and one from the mother--each with its peculiar individual, family, racial, and national characteristics.
Here the combined determiners determine the color of the eyes, the characteristics of the hair,
the texture of the skin, its color, the size of the body, the stability of the nervous system,
the size of the brain, etc., while the suppressors do a similar work in the modification of
this or that family or racial characteristic.

THE FIRST WEEKS OF LIFE

The fertilized ovum remains in the tube for about one week, when it slowly makes its way down
into the uterus, all the while rapidly undergoing segmentation or division. It does not grow
much in size during this first week, but divides and subdivides first, into two parts, then
four, then eight, then sixteen and so on, until we have a peculiar little body made up of many
equally divided parts, and known as the "Mulberry Mass" (Fig. 1). The blending of the sperm
and ovum has been perfect, the division of the original body multitudinous.

While this division of the united sex cells is progressing, a wonderful change is also taking
place in the inside lining of the uterus. Instead of the usual thin lining, it has greatly
thickened and has become highly sensitized, and as the ovum enters the uterus from the fallopian
tube, this sensitized lining catches it and holds it in its folds--actually covers it with
itself--holding the precious mass much as the cocoon, you have so often seen fastened to the
side of a plant or leaf, holds its treasure of life.

