The same writer, Lichtenstein, says that the lion, like a cat, takes its prey by springing
upon it, and never attacks a man or animal which does not attempt to run away from him without
first placing himself at a distance of ten or twelve paces off, and measuring his spring. This
habit of the lion has been turned to account by hunters, who make it their practice never to
fire at a lion until he has so placed himself: long practice enabling them to know exactly
where and when to hit it with effect while the animal is preparing for his spring. If any one
is so unfortunate as to meet a lion unarmed, the only hope of escape is presence of mind. To
run away is certain destruction; if a man has the coolness to remain standing where he is,
the lion will not attack him. He will not attempt the spring if the man stands motionless as
a statue, and looks quietly into his eyes. The erect figure of the human species of itself
alarms the lion, and when, in addition to this, he sees his antagonist calm and unmoved, the
feeling of awe is increased. A sudden gesture, indicative of alarm, will of course disturb
this impression; but if the man continues to show self-possession, the lion will at last be
as afraid of the man as the man of the lion. After a time he slowly raises himself, looks carefully
round, retreats a few steps, lies down again, makes a further retreat, and ends by taking a
rapid flight, as if his desire were to get as far out of the presence of the human species
as he possibly can. Indeed, we are told by the settlers at the Cape, that it is not likely
that the experiment has been very often made. Formerly, when there were more lions to be seen
there than at present, and when, at the same time, the settlers were inexperienced in lion-hunting,
large numbers of hunters used to go in chase of the lion, whom they would endeavor to entice
into the plain, and round whom they used to form a circle. They shot at him first from one
side and then from another, and if the poor animal tried to break through the left side of
the human wall, they would attack him from the right. At present, however, experienced lion-hunters
generally prefer going alone after their dangerous prey, and sometimes pursue him to his den.
Such species of sport is always dangerous, however, and is often attended with fatal results.
We have heard from a reliable source that in many sports among the mountains near the Elephant
River, lions are to be seen in such large numbers, that on one occasion our informant saw as
many as three and twenty together. Most of them were young, and only eight quite full grown.
He had just loosened his oxen on an open place, and took the rather cowardly than humane course
of escaping to the tents of some Hottentots, and leaving his oxen to the mercy of the lions,
without firing a shot.

THE SNOW-MAN.

    Look! how the clouds are flying south!
      The wind pipes loud and shrill!
    And high above the white drifts stands
      The snow-man on the hill.

    Blow, wild wind from the icy north!
      Here's one who will not fear
    To feel thy coldest touch, or shrink
      Thy loudest blast to hear!

    Proud triumph of the school-boy's skill!
      Far rather would I be
    A winter giant, ruling o'er
      A frosty realm, like thee,

    And stand amidst the drifted snow,
      Like thee, a thing apart,
    Than be a man who walks with men,
      But has a frozen heart!

                           MARIAN DOUGLAS.

BARN SWALLOWS.

When I was a youngster,--and that, let me tell you, young friends, was some time ago,--they
used to say that swallows lived in the mud all winter, as the eels do. The books made no such
stupid blunder; only the ignorant people, such as never seem to use their eyes or their reason.
It was one of the popular errors of the time. Silly as the notion seems, it has been held by
a great many respectable persons.

Possibly the error may have arisen from the fact that the moment the swallows appear in any
locality, in the spring of the year, they immediately search out some muddy place, where they
can get materials for their nests. First they carry a mouthful of mud, then some threads of
dry hay or straw, then more mud, and so on. These frequent visits to a marshy locality might
readily lead an unobserving person to imagine that the birds came from the muddy recesses in
the banks. But, of course, they are on a very different errand.

Having commenced their nests, the swallows rest during the warmest part of the day, so that
the sun may dry their work, and make it hard and strong. Then more mud is plastered on--more
threads of straw; and so the industrious birds continue until the body of the nest is completed.
A nice, soft lining of fine grass or hair finishes the whole, and makes a summer home for both
birds and their young.

Unlike most other birds, swallows often repair old nests, if the frosts and storms of winter
have injured them, as they generally do; and sometimes the birds come back to the same locality
for several years. They select some unexposed corner, under the eaves of a barn or house, if
possible pretty high from the ground, and in a very few days the entire dwelling, lining and
all, will be completed.

If unmolested, barn swallows will form quite a colony in the space of a few years. But, if
their nests are injured or torn down, or their young ones are stolen away or disturbed, the
birds forsake the locality forever. Where a number of families live together, their chattering,
when, as the evening comes on, they are catching gnats and flies for supper, or feeding their
young ones, is very pleasant and diverting. And there is music in their language, too--music
which a thoughtful person is ever glad to hear.

Last summer, when business was dull, I went on a vacation, away up into the Granite State.
While passing through the town of Unity (my little niece insists upon calling it Utiny--but
she will speak plainer one of these years), my attention was called to a small village church
on the wayside. Around the entire building, under the eaves, were brackets, some three inches
in width, and perhaps as far apart. In the spaces thus formed were hundreds upon hundreds of
swallows' nests. Hardly a single space was left unoccupied, while many contained two, and sometimes
three nests. Not content with the eaves, the colony had commenced upon the belfry, and far
up towards the spire every possible nook and corner seemed to be spoken for.

I stopped to contemplate the very interesting spectacle. A villager informed me that the colony
came regularly every year, and, as near as could be judged, the same birds; that for ten years
the birds had been petted by the inhabitants, and protected by all, old and young. He said
that the swallows had all disappeared in a body, about a week previous to my visit, adding,
"You don't know what a lovely spectacle it is to witness the evolutions of these birds on a
summer evening, when they are teaching their young ones to fly. They swarm around the building
like bees, and their music is most delightful to hear."

I could readily imagine the beauty of the scene, from the great number of nests, though I mean
to see the colony at their devotions this year.

It would be interesting to know where these birds go as winter approaches. It is very easy,
and perhaps very true, to say that they "go south." But to what part of the south? Do they
keep in a body there, as here? Do they have nests, and rear their young, there, as with us?
There is a fine field for inquiry, which it is hoped some of our boys will go into by and by.
For the present, if any of them are passing through Unity, let them remember the church which
has its largest congregation on the outside.

                                                  W. WANDER.

[Decoration]

GRATITUDE OF A COW.

A gentleman passing through a field observed a cow showing many symptoms of uneasiness, stamping
with her feet and looking earnestly at him. At first he feared to approach her, but afterward
went toward her, which seemed to please her much. She then guided him to a ditch where her
calf was lying helpless; and he was just in time to save it from death, to the no small delight
of the cow. Some days after, when passing through the same field, the cow came up to him as
if to thank him for his kindness. As among the various animals with which the earth abounds
none is more necessary to the existence of man than the cow, so likewise none appears to be
more extensively propagated; in every part of the world it is found, large or small, according
to the quantity and quality of its food. There is no part of Europe where it grows to so large
a size as in England, whose pastures are admirably suited to its nature. The quantity of milk
and butter varies according to the difference of its pasture; some cows in favorable situations
yield twenty quarts of milk in a day.

To form a just idea of the value of this animal, we ought to consider that there is scarcely
any part of it without its utility to man. The skin is manufactured into leather; the hair,
mixed with lime, is used in plastering walls and building houses; the bones serve as a substitute
for ivory; when calcined, they are used by the refiners of silver to separate the baser metals;
and when ground and spread over the fields, they form a fertilizing manure. Combs, knife-handles
and many useful articles are made from the horns, which, when softened in boiling water, become
pliable, so as to be formed into lanterns--an invention usually ascribed to King Alfred. We
are furnished with candles from the tallow, and the feet afford an oil adapted to a variety
of purposes. Glue is made from the cartilages, gristles and parings of the hide boiled in water;
calves' skins are manufactured into vellum; saddlers and others use a fine thread prepared
from the sinews, which is much stronger than any other equally fine. The blood, gall, etc.,
are used in many important manufactures.

MINUTES.

    We are but minutes--little things!
    Each one furnished with sixty wings,
    With which we fly on our unseen track,
    And not a minute ever comes back.

    We are but minutes; use, use us well,
    For how we are used we must one day tell.
    Who uses minutes has hours to use;
    Who loses minutes whole years must lose.

GOING FOR THE LETTERS.

AN AUSTRALIAN STORY.

It was a bitter cold day in the end of the month of January. The morning had been a very unpleasant
one--neither frost nor snow, a sort of compound of rain and sleet; but now the snow was falling
fast, and the clear crystals were fast hiding every shrub and plant that had a place in the
beautiful flower garden, in front of the drawing-room windows of Arundel Manor, while inside
a roaring fire, that made the handsomely-furnished apartment look even more than usually snug
and comfortable, was surrounded by a family party consisting of Mrs. St. Clair, the three children,
and uncle Godfrey.

It was the "children's hour," and his niece was trying to coax a tale out of "dear uncle,"
who did not seem much in the humor to comply with her request, when mamma looked up and said,
"My dear, do not trouble your uncle so. I am sure, Godfrey, that Lydia must torment you; and
if she does, we must send her to the nursery."

Poor Lydia's face fell at once. "I am sure I did not mean to tease uncle."

"Never mind, my pet; I know I promised to tell you a story to-night, and was just thinking
what it was to be, when my fit of musing sent memory back many a long day, and revealed a scene
distant many a thousand miles. Now that I am fairly awake, I will show you the picture of my
waking dream. So up you jump;" and Lydia, catching hold of his hand, was quickly seated on
her uncle's knee, her usual place at story time, and throwing her arms round his neck, exclaimed,--

"O, you dear old pet!"

"I heard," began uncle Godfrey, "some boys, who shall be nameless, grumbling this morning at
being kept inside, for fear of catching cold on such a raw day, and my thoughts instantly turned
to a day similar to this, and how I then prayed to be under the shelter of some friendly roof;
and I also thought how thankful every one ought to be who is able to sit at a warm fire, when
it freezes hard, or when the snow is covering the earth by inches every hour.

"I dare say you think it fine fun to run over to the lodge and bring the letters from the post-boy;
at least I did when as young as you are; but going for letters is not always the pleasantest
thing imaginable, as I once nearly found out to my cost.

"If you are all so anxious to hear the contents of letters from your uncle Wilfred, you may
fancy how eagerly he and I used to watch for the arrivals of the mails at Sydney, and be sure
that one or both of us were certain to be at the office in Kiandra on the day it reached there,
and with what delight we read and re-read the letter which never failed to make its appearance
monthly to one or other of us.

"Our winter fall of snow generally began about the 12th of May, and from that date till the
month of October it was a matter of no small difficulty to get our letters at the place where
we lived, a long nine miles from Kiandra of a very mountainous track.

"186- was an extraordinary season. May passed, no snow--June the same, only heavy, I may say,
nearly constant showers of rain. 'A glorious year,' the diggers called it. 'Never such a season
for work since the diggings broke out. Two months' work at a time when there is never any water.
O, what a wash-up there will be in November!'

"Such was the substance of the conversation when any two of the residents met, varied, perhaps,
by remarks as to whether old So-and-so, who had been twenty years in the district, would be
right in saying there was to be nine feet of snow, or whether So-and-so was a better judge
in saying we were to have none at all?

"I was then living by myself, Wilfred being away in Sydney, and was looking out for him every
day, and hoping he might be back before the winter fairly set in, when it was scarcely possible
to travel. As I said before, June had passed, and we were getting well into July, when I heard
that our English mail would be in Kiandra on the following Wednesday. It was now Friday.

"We had got a fine week for work, raining gently all the time, which is what we diggers like,
and no frost, which dries up the water, and makes us all idle, when on Sunday the weather completely
changed, and very suddenly, too, as, indeed, it always did there. The wind, which had been
from north or east, without any warning chopped right round to the south-west, and we had a
strong frost. Next day was cloudy, but at night frost was harder than ever, and everything
with liquid in it, even to the tea-pot in a room where there was a fire nearly all night, was
full of solid ice.

"The thermometer was down to 18° below zero in the same place; and in bed, in the next room,
with four pairs of new blankets, I thought I should have been fairly frozen. We were hard at
work all that day, which was a drizzly, snowy one, everything betokening a fall of snow; so,
when Wednesday dawned, though not so deep as I expected, I was not surprised to find more than
a foot of it all over.

"Down the country the floods had been dreadful; nearly all the bridges had been washed away,
and the roads turned into bogs, so that our mails came in very irregularly, sometimes ten days
behind time. You may therefore imagine I was in a great worry to hear from Wilfred, my last
letter being a month old, as well as anxious for home news. So I donned my oil-skin over my
blanket-coat, put on my thigh gum-boots, tied my comforter round my neck and up over my ears,
and pulling my south-wester on, prepared to face the weather.

"I found the walk into town, though very heavy, not so bad as I expected, and arrived safely,
without any mishaps, but rather tired and uncomfortably moist, it being a sort of drizzle all
the way; but a letter from Wilfred, saying he would not leave for some time, and so would not
be caught in this storm, and the perusal of a kind one from 'the old country' soon made me
forget my discomfort, and I spent a pleasant evening at a friend's.

"At bed-time it was a beautiful starry night; but I did not altogether fancy it. There was
a kind of half soft feel through the frost, that sounded to me like a change, and the thought
of the morrow's walk was not a pleasant one; but there was no use forestalling what might never
be. So to bed and to sleep; but ere my eyes were well closed, the wind began to whistle round
the corner of the house, and--hallo--what's that! Big drops of rain, and lumps of earth and
gravel, were pelting the panes of glass.

"A few minutes there was a lull--a dead silence--when flash! crash!--the room was in a blaze
of light, and at the same instant the thunder made the very bed shake again, and also made
my heart rise to my mouth. Listening earnestly for some time, and no further disturbances occurring,
I began, after thanking a kind Providence for his protection, to think over the matter, and
came to the conclusion that at last we were in for a downright fall, this being the third time
that, to my knowledge, such had been preceded by a single clap of thunder.

"Next day the snow came down in earnest; and as it was drifting in every direction, I took
the advice of my friends, and quietly stopped where I was. Large, feathery flakes fell unceasingly
all the afternoon, and by night there was fully two feet in the town; but as it looked a little
better on Friday afternoon, and my dog, cat, and fowls could get nothing to eat until my return,
I determined to make a start, though against the opinions of most of the town's people.

"When I left Kiandra there was a dense fog, which shortly changed, first to a light, and then
to a heavy snow; and by the time I dragged myself the mile to the top of the mountain, it was
coming down, and no mistake!

"It was impossible to see one yard in any direction, and my legs were already beginning to
talk; but it was too late to think of turning. I had had only to fight through one extra deep
drift as yet, and knew the road hitherto well; but now I had to turn off from where the track
lay hid, and had not gone far when my difficulties fairly began, and I was quickly ploughing
my way through some five or six feet of snow.

"Half an hour's hard work found me clear of that, and for a couple of miles everything went
swimmingly. The snow was here firm enough to bear my weight, although now and again, bump!
down I went through the crust, nearly jerking my joints out. The nearer home the deeper got
the snow, and, of course, so much the more tired I felt. The main creek to be crossed was hidden
entirely; and as its exact whereabouts was not very easily guessed at, you may depend it was
not a pleasant sensation to plump down and find myself up to the neck. Luckily, the water was
no depth, and as my boots were tight and long, a hard scramble pulled me out of my first trouble.

"A short rest, and I was again on my way; but it took me a good many hours to get the next
three or four miles, even though I met no more serious difficulty than some very heavy drifts.
I was getting very tired, and hungry, too, and you may fancy it was no joke wading the snow,
never less than two feet, lucky if not going past the knees at every step; but at last I was
in a mess, and how to get out of it I knew not. The look of the country, when a lull gave me
the chance of seeing, showed I was off my road; and when I felt I was lost, my thoughts were
anything but satisfactory.

"I knew not which way to turn, so sat down to think it over, and was looking around as well
as the drifting snow would permit, when coming along my tracks was a large yellow dog. My heart
gave a bound of delight, and jumping up, I let a 'cooey,'[A] to tell its master that some one
was in the same predicament, as I doubted not he was.

"Slowly a minute or two passed, but no reply to my communication. Alas! all was silence, and
I then saw, by its pointed ears and bushy tail, that it was a dingo, or native dog, which was
running my footsteps. It was no use sitting where I was. So on I started in the direction I
fancied, every minute feeling more and more fagged, and when at last darkness set in, was almost
inclined to give up.

"My yellow friend followed me for some time at a respectful distance; and though the dingo
is a sneaking coward, still, had sleep overpowered me, he might have been tempted to try how
I tasted, as he must have been hungry to come so close to me as he did. So, although I never
had any fear of such an event actually occurring, I was not at all sorry when he trotted off,
his tail, as usual, between his legs, to join some of his companions, whose unearthly howls
he heard at no great distance; there must have been five or six.

"I felt really glad they came no nearer, as a mob of them are very daring; and I have known
them, when well starved for a week or two, kill calves, and even colts, when the mothers were
weak and could not fight for them. But it was not very long before I found that they were not
after me, as I nearly stumbled against a mare and colt belonging to myself, that were standing
under a tree, and whinnied as I spoke. We had sent all our horses away two months ago but this
one, as she could not be found, and we thought she was dead. The poor thing could not have
tasted food for days; but what could I do but pity the pair, and feel that their end was to
be food for the warregals (native dogs).

"As I had now been walking seven or eight hours, and hard at it all the time, I could see nothing
for it but to yield to necessity, as sleep was fast overpowering me, when I distinctly heard
the bark of a dog, which I felt confident was my old watch, 'Jack.' My spirits rose at once,
and again I was alive, and pushed in the direction of the welcome sound.

"At the same time I caught a glimpse of a cluster of trees, whose peculiar shape I had often
remarked, which told me where I was; and this fact was also quickly proved by my plunging into
an old prospecting hole--the only one in the neighborhood. It was about six feet deep, and
full of snow and water. I thought I was lost, as the frozen slush went down my back, and that
I, who had been picked out of the Canton River, in a dark night, when the tide ran six knots
an hour, was fated to be drowned in a filthy pot-hole.

"But, luckily, such was not my lot on the present occasion, as, after many a failure, I managed
to pull myself out, my boots full of water, and my whole body nearly numb from the cold. Luckily,
the house was only half a mile off.

"I reached it in safety, and just in time, as my feet were all but frost-bitten, when I should
have been fortunate to lose only a few of my toes, as I knew a man here who had both legs cut
off in consequence of a severe frost-bite.

"As it was, I was a sorry figure; my clothes were like a board, my socks were in a similar
state, while icicles hung in festoons from my hair and beard. But, when at last I managed to
open the door, and get a light, one or two rough towels, and some ten minutes' hard rubbing,
soon put a glow of heat over my whole body; and by the time I turned into bed, after a cup
of scalding hot coffee (I was too hungry to eat), my misfortunes were forgotten, and all I
felt was thankfulness for having reached my house, which seems to me, even now, to have been
a very doubtful matter, had 'Jack' not barked when he did.

"See how many things turned out all for my good--the mare and the colt in the snow, the dingo
running after her through hunger, and my dog barking at it, showed me where my house was, when
I was fairly lost, and thus saved my life, and enabled me to spin you this yarn, which I must
now finish by saying that since that time I am always glad to have a warm house to shelter
me in such weather as this, and cannot help thinking that if any boys had ever been placed
in my predicament, they would only be too thankful to remain inside on such a day as this,
without requiring their mother to order them to do so."

"But what about the poor mare? Did she die? and did the wild dogs eat the colt?"

"O, I almost forgot to tell you that, to my astonishment, in two or three days, when the snow
hardened a bit, the pair found their way home, and I, after a deal of trouble, got them to
the banks of the Tumut River, which, although only a couple of miles away, was so many hundred
feet lower, that they could paw away the snow, and so got grass enough to live till spring
when they soon got fat. The little colt I named 'Snowdrop,' and when she was old enough, broke
her in; and many a good gallop we had over the place where she and her mother neighed to me
on that dark and dismal night."

FOOTNOTE:

[A] A peculiar shout, heard at a great distance, which is common among the Australian settlers.

SPRING HAS COME.

    Spring has come back to us, beautiful spring!
    Blue-birds and swallows are out on the wing;
    Over the meadows a carpet of green
    Softer and richer than velvet is seen.

    Up come the blossoms so bright and so gay,
    Giving sweet odors to welcome the May.
    Sunshine and music are flooding the air,
    Beauty and brightness are everywhere.

ABOUT "BITTERS."

Charley and Jimmie D. were playing near the barn one day, when along came the forlornest looking
cur you ever did see. The children commenced calling him, and laughed loudly as the animal
came towards them, he was such an ill-looking thing.

"Good fellow! nice fellow!" said Charley, patting him. "Jim, you run in, and get him something
to eat--won't you? and don't tell mother yet; you know she dislikes dogs so. We'll tie him
up to-night, and tell her to-morrow, if no one comes for him."

Such another looking dog I think I never saw--scrawny and poor, as though he had never been
more than half fed; a slit in one ear, tail not much to speak of, and color a dirty black and
white.

Jimmie soon came back from a successful forage, and gave him a good supper. At least doggie
seemed to think so, for he gobbled it up in about a minute, and then wagged the stump of his
tail for more.

"No, sir," said Charley, "no more to-night."

Then they shut him up in a little room in a corner of the barn, and ran to find their father,
and tell him, well knowing he would not care, if their mother was willing.

They found their father, who went with them to see him, and laughed long and loud as they led
out the ugly beast.

Then all went in to supper; the great secret almost revealing itself in their tell-tale looks
and occasional whisperings, neither of which attracted their mother's attention.

Supper over, they made a final visit to their pet, and then left him for the night.

"What shall we name him?" said Jimmie, when they were alone in their room at night.

"O, we must have a funny name, he's such a sorry looking feller! Wouldn't you call him 'Bitters'?"
said Charley.

"Bitters!" said Jim, with a laugh.

"Yes, that's bad enough."

So Bitters he was named; and next morning they won their mother's reluctant consent to keep
the dog, provided he was kept at the barn, or away from the house, at all events.

Then they fed and played with him till school time, and shut him up till noon.

Bitters seemed to take to his new admirers, and appeared quite satisfied with his quarters,
and was getting to look a little more like a respectable dog, when one morning, as he was running
round a corner of the barn, he came suddenly upon the old rooster, who bristled up and showed
fight. Bitters turned, and ran for dear life, as hard as he could go, and never has been seen
or heard from, from that day to this, much to the boys' regret.

                                                    F. E. S.

FRED AND DOG STEPHEN.

"Now, just one good cuddle," said little six-year-old Freddie, "and then I'll be ready for
school;" and he curled himself up like a young Turk in his mother's lap, and nestled there
in a very enjoyable way.

She was sitting by the dining-room window; it was open, and a pitcher of wild phlox and pink-and-white
wake-robins stood in it. While they sat there they saw Uncle Rube, who lives over on the hillside,
coming along the crooked path with a basket on his arm. His head was down, and he was thinking
so intently that he did not hear the steps behind him of his young dog, Stephen.

Now, Rube means to make the best dog in the world of Stephen--the playful little puppy!--and
he never permits him to follow him anywhere unless by special invitation. About once a week
he will say to him, "Stevie, would you like to go to your grandfather's with me? Come on, then;"
and here they will come, the puppy so glad that his gait is more awkward than ever, his fat
body, twisted out of all shape, wriggling along, while his tail will flap about in every direction
and his ears look like wilted cabbage-leaves.

"He doesn't know Stevie is behind him, does he, ma? and now let's watch and see what they will
both do when they find out." So they snugged down by the window and tittered and watched and
anticipated rare fun.

Uncle Rube was whispering to himself and nodding his head and making gesticulations with his
open hand, while Stephen trotted with his little soft, careful feet behind him, smelling of
the ground, and thinking green grass with the dew sparkling on it was just made purposely for
dogs to admire.

Just as Rube came to the big gate and stopped to unlatch it he heard a little whiffy breathing
behind him, and then he looked and saw Stephen. He was very much surprised; but as he never
scolded the dog, he simply said, in a very earnest way, "Steve, I am astonished! You go right
back home immediately. You're a great boy, indeed, to sneak along without ever being invited!
I didn't want you, sir, or I'd have told you so. Now go right back again."

Oh, it was so funny! Stephen just threw his head back and whirled on his heels, and ran with
all his might down the crooked path.

Then the school-bell rang, and Fred's mother kissed him "good-morning," and he started off
with his books, and as he turned round the corner his white teeth showed prettily as, half
laughing, he said to himself in wonderment, "Dear little Stevie dog! he just ran back 'zactly
as if he wanted to."

NOW THE SUN IS SINKING.

    Now the sun is sinking
      In the golden west;
    Birds and bees and children
      All have gone to rest;
    And the merry streamlet,
      As it runs along,
    With a voice of sweetness
      Sings its evening song.

    Cowslip, daisy, violet,
      In their little beds,
    All among the grasses,
      Hide their heavy heads;
    There they'll all, sweet darlings!
      Lie in happy dreams
    Till the rosy morning
      Wakes them with its beams.

A RIGMAROLE ABOUT A TEA-PARTY.

    Mrs. Dyer
    Stirred the fire,
    Agnes Stout
    Poked it out,
    Tommy Voles
    Fetched the coals,
    Alice Good
    Laid the wood,
    Bertie Patch
    Struck the match,
    Charlotte Hays
    Made it blaze,
    Mrs. Groom
    Kept the broom,
    Katy Moore
    Swept the floor,
    Fanny Froth
    Laid the cloth,
    Arthur Grey
    Brought the tray,
    Betty Bates
    Washed the plates,
    Nanny Galt
    Smoothed the salt,
    Dicky Street
    Fetched the meat,
    Sally Strife
    Rubbed the knife,
    Minnie York
    Found the fork,
    Sophie Silk
    Brought the milk,
    Mrs. Bream
    Sent some cream,
    Susan Head
    Cut the bread,
    Harry Host
    Made the toast,
    Mrs. Dee
    Poured out tea,
    And they all were as happy as happy could be.

THE FAIRY BIRD. We can do so little for our neighbors, I am glad to cheer the way for them.

                                           LOUISA M. ALCOTT.

SAVED BY A FIDDLE.

Among the most rapacious and dangerous animals of North America, is the wolf, commonly called
the coyote (pronounced ky-o-te) in some of the Southern and Western States. The wolves--far
more numerous in the United States than in Europe--are, perhaps, more horrible in aspect than
those of the old world. Along desert paths, on the prairies or in the woods, the wolf, the
ghoul of the animal race, presents itself to the traveller, with its slavering jaws and flashing
eyes, uttering a growl, which is the usual sign of cowardice blended with impudence. "The coyote,"
says a recent writer, "is a living, breathing allegory of Want. He is always poor, out of luck,
and friendless."

It is very difficult to catch coyotes in a trap, but they are frequently hunted down with horses
and dogs. Their coat is of a dull reddish color, mixed with gray and white hairs. Such is their
ordinary condition, but like other animals they display varieties. Their bushy tail, black
at the tip, is nearly as long as one third of their body. They resemble the dogs which one
sees in the Indian wigwams, and which are certainly descended from this species. They are found
in the regions between the Mississippi and the Pacific, and in Southern Mexico. They travel
in packs like jackals, and pursue deer, buffaloes, and other animals which they hope to master.
They do not venture to attack buffaloes in herds, but they follow the latter in large packs,
watching till a laggard--a young calf or an old bull, for instance--may fall out; then they
dart upon it and tear it to pieces. They accompany parties of sportsmen or travellers, prowl
round deserted camps, and devour the fragments they find there. At times they will enter a
camp during the night, and seize lumps of meat on which the emigrants calculated for their
morning meal. These robberies sometimes exasperate the victims, and, growing less saving of
their powder and shot, they pursue them till they have rubbed out the mess-number of several.

This breed of wolves is the most numerous of all the carnivora in North America, and it is
for this reason that the coyotes often suffer from hunger. Then, but only then, they eat corn,
roots, and vegetables--in short, anything that will save them from death by starvation.

The coyote is ignorant of any feeling of sympathy, and for this reason inspires none. Here
is an anecdote, however, which proves that this quadruped thief of the wood is capable of feeling
a certain degree of sensibility of the nerves, at any rate, if not of the heart. This story
was told me under canvas, while we were hunting with the Pawnee Indians.

During the first period of the colonization of Kentucky, the coyotes were so numerous in the
prairie to the south of that state, that the inhabitants did not dare to leave their houses
unless armed to the teeth. The women and children were strictly confined in-doors. The coyotes
by which the country was infested belonged to the herd whose coat is dark gray, a very numerous
species in the northern district, in the heart of the dense forests and unexplored mountains
of the Green River.

The village of Henderson, situated at the left bank of the Ohio, near its confluence with Green
River, was the spot most frequented by these depredators.

The pigs, calves, and sheep of the planters paid a heavy tax to these voracious animals. Several
times in the depth of winter, when the snow covered the ground, and the flocks were kept in
the stalls, the starving coyotes attacked human beings; and more than one belated farmer, returning
home at night, found himself surrounded by a raging pack, from whose teeth he had great difficulty
in defending himself.

Among the many startling adventures I have heard narrated, not one made a greater impression
on me than that of which Richard, the old negro fiddler, was the hero, and which I will tell you.

Richard was what is called a "good old good-for-nothing darky." The whole district allowed
that he had no other merit beyond that of sawing the fiddle; and this merit, which is not one
in our own eyes, was highly valued, however, by all the colored people, and even by the whites
who lived for a distance of forty miles round. One thing is certain--that no festival could
be held without Fiddler Dick being invited to it.

Marriages, christenings, parties prolonged till dawn, which are called "break-downs" in the
United States, could not take place without the aid of his fiddle; and though the negro minstrel
was old, and a good deal of his black wool was absent from the place where the wool ought to
grow, still Richard was no less welcome wherever he presented himself, with his instrument
wrapped up in a ragged old handkerchief under his arm, and a knotted stick in his hand.

Old Richard was the property of one of the Hendersons, a member of the family that gave its
name to this Kentucky county and village. His master had a liking for him, owing to his obedient
and original character, and the slave, instead of tilling the soil, was at liberty to do whatever
he thought proper. No one raised any objection to this tolerance, for Richard, whom his master
was used to call a necessary evil, had before all the talent of keeping the negroes of the
plantation in good humor by means of his fiddle.

Richard, who understood all the importance of his exalted functions, knew nothing but his duty,
and was remarkably punctual whenever those who honored him with their confidence let him know
that his services were required. In this respect the merest trifle irritated him, and any vexation
or disturbance rendered him ferocious.

Despite the proverbial timidity attributed to geniuses, old Dick displayed a touch of the hyena
whenever, at any of the negro festivals presided over by him, anything or anybody offended
etiquette or the proprieties. As for Dick, he never forgot himself in the slightest degree,
and whenever he was called upon to undertake the duties he performed so well, he had never
once kept the company waiting. And yet one day--poor Dick! The following narrative will show
that it was not by his own fault that he arrived too late at his appointment.

A wedding of colored people was about to come off on a plantation about six miles from the
one where the fiddler lived. In order that the feast might be perfect, old Dick had been invited,
and he was unanimously appointed master of the ceremonies. It was during the winter; the cold
was excessive, and the snow, which had fallen incessantly for three days, covered the ground
to a depth of several feet.

While all Mr. Henderson's negroes, with their master's previous permission, hastened to the
spot where pleasure called them, the ebony Apollo was arranging his toilet with peculiar delight.
A white shirt, a collar as immoderately long in front as it was high in the neck,--so that
Dick's head resembled a block of coal in a sheet of white paper,--a blue coat with gilt buttons,
and long tails that reached to his heels,--a present from his master,--a red silk cravat fringed
at the ends, a green waistcoat ornamented with an orange patch at the spot where the watch-pocket
formerly was, boots which had seen their best days, and a wide-awake hat,--such was the elegant
and excessively fashionable attire of Dick, the old black fiddler, who, when dressed in these
rags, believed himself as handsome as Adonis.

After taking a parting glance at the piece of looking-glass held by three nails on the wall
of his bedroom, and favoring himself with a smile that expressed a personal satisfaction, Richard
took his fiddle under his arm and set out.

The moon was shining over his head, the stars sparkled--to use the fiddler's picturesque expression--like
"gilt nails driven into the ceiling of the firmament by an audacious upholsterer." No sound
could be heard, save the crackling of the snow beneath Richard's feet, as he put them down
with the heaviness of old age. The road he had to follow was very narrow; its complicated windings
passed through a dense forest which the axe had not yet assailed, and whose depths were still
as entirely unknown as at the period when the Redskins were the sole owners of the territory.
This track could only be followed by a pedestrian; no cart road existed for several miles round.

The profound solitude of this road must infallibly produce its effect--that of fear or apprehension--on
a being belonging to the human race; but at this moment the old man was so deeply plunged in
thought that nothing could make him forget the anxiety he felt at not arriving in time at the
place where he was expected. He doubled his pace as he thought of the furious glances that
would be bestowed on him by those whose joys his absence retarded, and he regretted the time
he had spent in giving an extra polish to his coat buttons and in pulling up the two splendid
points of his shirt collar.

While thinking of the reproaches that menaced him, old Dick looked up, and the moon shining
above his head proved to him that he was even more behindhand than he had supposed. His legs
then began moving like the wheels of a locomotive, so as to keep him constantly ahead of certain
black shadows which seemed to be following his every footstep on the forest path.

They were coyotes, horrible coyotes, that cast these shadows, and from time to time gave a
snarl of covetousness or impatience; but old Dick paid no attention to them. Ere long, however,
he was obliged to devote his entire attention to what was going on behind him. He had walked
half the distance, and already saw through the forest arcades the clearing which he must cross
to reach the spot where he was expected. The angry barks of the wolves had increased during
the last quarter of an hour, and the sound of their paws making the snow crackle inspired the
old man with an indescribable terror. The number of animals seemed momentarily to be augmented;
it resembled an ant-heap seen through the magnifying-glass of a gigantic microscope.

Wolves, in all parts of the world, look twice before attacking a man; they study the ground,
and wait for the propitious moment. This was what was now happening, very fortunately for old
Dick, who was more and more perceiving the greatness of the danger, and doubled his speed in
proportion as his pursuers grew more daring, brushed past his legs with gnashing teeth, and
joyously strove to get ahead of each other. Dick was thoroughly acquainted with the habits
of his enemies, and hence carefully avoided running; that would have been giving the signal
of attack, for coyotes only rush on persons who are frightened.

The only chance of salvation left him was to prolong this dangerous walk to the skirt of the
forest. There he hoped the coyotes, as they do not dare venture into an open plain, would leave
him and allow him to continue his walk at peace. He also remembered that in the centre of the
clearing there was a deserted cabin, and the thought of reaching this refuge restored him a
portion of his courage.

The daring of the coyotes increased with each moment, and the hapless negro could not look
around without seeing bright eyes moving in all directions, like the phosphorescent fireflies
in summer. One after the other the quadrupeds tried their teeth on old Dick's thin legs, and
as he had dropped his stick he had recourse to his fiddle to keep his foes aloof. At the first
blow he dealt the springs produced a sound which had the immediate effect of putting to flight
the coyotes, which were surprised by this unusual music.

Dick, an observer naturally and by necessity, then began strumming his fiddle with his fingers;
and the carnivorous animals at once manifested fresh marks of surprise, as if a charge of shot
had tickled their ribs. This fortunate diversion, repeated several times, brought Dick to the
skirt of the forest, and taking advantage of a favorable moment, he darted on, still striking
the strings, and going in the direction of the hut.

The coyotes halted for a moment, with their tails between their legs, looking at their prey
flying before them; but ere long their ravenous instinct gained the upper hand, and with a
unanimous bark they all rushed in pursuit of the unfortunate negro. Had the wolves caught up
to old Dick in this moment of fury, he might have appealed in vain to his fiddle. By running
he had destroyed the charm, and the coyotes would not have stopped to listen to him even had
he played like Orpheus in the olden times, or Ole Bull in ours.

Fortunately, the old man reached the cabin at the moment when the coyotes were at his heels.
With a hand rendered doubly vigorous by the imminence of the danger, he shut the door of the
protecting cabin, and secured it with a beam he found within reach. Then he hoisted himself,
not without sundry lacerations of his garments, on the ruined roof, the beams of which alone
remained, supported on blocks of wood at the four corners of the walls.

Old Dick found himself comparatively out of danger; but the coyotes displayed a fury which
threatened to become terrible. Several of them had entered the cabin, and conjointly with those
outside they leaped at the legs of the minstrel, whom rapid movements and repeated kicks scarce
protected from numerous bites.

Old Dick, in spite of his agony, had not forgotten his fiddle, which had saved his life in
the forest. Seizing his bow with a firm hand, he drew from the instrument a shrill note, which
overpowered the deafening barks of the coyotes, and silenced them as if by enchantment. This
silence henceforth continued, only interrupted by the hysterical sounds which the fiddle produced
under the fear-stiffened fingers of the old negro performer.

This inharmonious music could not satisfy the starving animals for long, and from the efforts
which they soon made to reach their prey, old Dick comprehended that noise was not sufficient
to enchant the wolves. They dashed forward more furiously than ever to escalade the wall. He
considered himself lost, especially when he noticed, scarce half a yard from his trembling
legs, the enormous head of a coyote, whose large, open eyes seemed to flash fire and gleam.

"The Lord ha' mussy on all!" he cried; "I am an eaten man!"

And without knowing what he was about, he let his trembling fingers stray over the fiddle,
and began playing the famous air of "Yankee Doodle." It was the chant of the swan singing its
requiem in the hour of death.

But suddenly--O, miracle of harmony!--a calm set in round the negro minstrel. Orpheus was no
fable: the animals obeyed this new enchantment; and when Dick, on recovering from his terror,
was unable to understand what was going on around him, he saw himself surrounded by an audience
a hundred fold more attentive to the charms of music than any which had hitherto admired his
execution. This was so true that so soon as his bow ceased moving, the coyotes dashed forward
to renew the battle.

Dick now knew what his means of preservation were. He must play the fiddle till some help arrived.
Ere long, yielding to the fascination of the art, the musician completely forgot the danger
he incurred. Indulging all the fancies of his imagination, he gave his four-footed audience
a concert in which he surpassed himself. Never had he played with more taste, soul, and expression.
Hence he forgot, in the intoxication of his triumph, the wedding and the brilliant company,
the whiskey-punch and supper smoking hot on the board, that awaited him no great distance off.

But alas! every medal has its reverse in this world, and all days of pleasure have their to-morrow
of woe. As the night advanced, the old negro felt the cold pierce his stiffened limbs. In vain
did he try to rest; if the bow left the fiddle strings, the coyotes rushed against the walls
of the cabin; if, on the contrary, he continued to wander along the paths of harmony, these
dilettanti of a novel sort squatted down on their hams, with their tails stretched out on the
snow, ears pricked up, tongues hanging from their half-opened jaws, and they followed, with
a regular movement of the head and body, all the notes produced by old Dick's fiddle.

While this fantastic scene, illumined by the moonbeams, was taking place in the clearing, the
negroes, who were awaiting their comrade to begin the fun, were growing sadly impatient, and
did not know what to think of the delay of their musician, who was usually most punctual. At
last six of them, tired of waiting, left the house to make a voyage of discovery; and on reaching
the cabin, on the top of which Dick was perched, they noticed some thirty coyotes in the position
I have described. The old player was still continuing his involuntary concert, with his eyes
fixed on his deadly foes.

At the moment when the six negroes raised a simultaneous shout, the whole band of coyotes thought
it high time to bolt. In a twinkling they disappeared, and the fiddler, frozen and numbed,
fell fainting into the arms of his rescuers. His woolly hair, which, in spite of his great
age, was perfectly black at the time when he performed his toilet, had turned white in the
space of two hours.

                                      SIR LASCELLES WRAXALL.

THE BIRD'S NEST.

    Deep in a leafy dell we found,
      When early Summer wove her crown,
    A bird's nest on the mossy ground,
      From blooming bough blown down.

    Five pretty eggs, quite warm and white,
      Were waiting for the brooding wing,
    That from each shell there might take flight
      A bird, to trill and sing.

    The mother sat and grieved apart;
      Her song had no rejoicing note.
    The sorrow of her wounded heart
      Seemed sobbing in her throat.

    She thought of all the summer days,
      With their sweet sunshine, yet to come;
    Of fledgelings echoing God's praise,
      While only hers were dumb.

THE YOUNG ARTIST.

"Well done, little one! A very pretty tune, and very nicely sung!"

The speaker was a stranger who had just come in sight of the pretty cottage where Robbie and
Maria Barnes lived with their widowed mother, and outside of which the little singer sat nursing
the baby, while Robbie chopped wood at a little distance.

The widow, hearing a stranger's voice, came to the door, and seeing that he appeared to have
been walking far invited him to come in and take a rest. This he very gladly did; and while
she dusted a chair for him, Mary brought a mug of fresh milk, and they were soon on very friendly
terms with him.

He said that he was an artist, and that he had come to that part of the country for a time
to take sketches of the scenery around; that he was at present staying at the village inn,
but that he would be very glad if they could arrange to let him live with them for a few weeks.
This was agreed upon, and on the next day Mr. Page--for that was the stranger's name--took
up his abode in the widow Paul's cottage.

Very pleased Robbie and Maria were with him; and when he came home from his rambles and sat
under the shade of the large tree by the side of the house finishing the sketches he had taken,
they would stand looking on with wondering interest. Robbie especially, who had never seen
any other pictures than those in his spelling-book, was rapt in amazement as he saw hills,
rivers, flowers, trees and animals start up into seeming life under the artist's hand. Mr.
Page, seeing how interested the boy was in what he saw, invited him to accompany him in his
rambles. Robbie did so, and many valuable things he learned in these pleasant wanderings.

When the time came for Mr. Page to leave these simple cottagers, he was as sorry to go as they
were to part with him; and he promised that if he lived and prospered, he would endeavor to
do something for his favorite, Robbie.

This visit of the artist to their humble abode became the turning-point in Robbie's life. An
idea had taken possession of the boy's mind. Why should he not learn to be an artist like Mr.
Page? He had watched very carefully the manner in which that gentleman proceeded when taking
sketches of the objects around him; he had begun himself to look upon those objects with very
different eyes from what he had been accustomed to, and felt sure that with patience and perseverance
he could master the art of drawing and painting himself.

His first attempt was a rough sketch of grandma on his slate. It was done with a few strokes
of the pencil, but there was really some likeness to the dear old lady in it, and mother felt
sure her boy would some day be an artist.

Several weeks passed away, and at length he thought he might attempt the portrait of his little
dog, "Pink," and, if he could succeed to his satisfaction, he determined that he would carry
it home and surprise his mother with it. After much patient labor he finished his task, and
showed the sketch first of all to his friend Thomas, who being much pleased with it, they hastened
at once to Robbie's home with it. Watching their opportunity, they stood the picture unobserved
against the wall, and waited to see the effect it would produce. Little Maria was the first
to notice it. "Oh, mother," she cried, "here's a picture of Pinky! Do come and look at it!
Isn't it real?"

The widow turned from her work to look.

"Why, so it is," she exclaimed. "Who painted it, Robbie? Where did you get it from?"

"Robbie did it himself," cried Thomas, unable to keep the secret any longer.

"Robbie did it?" echoed the widow, with a look of bewilderment. "You painted it, Robbie?"

"Yes, mother," laughed Robbie, enjoying her perplexity; "I did it all myself. I have been learning
unknown to you. If I can learn to paint as well as Mr. Page, mother, eh! Sha'n't I be able
to help you then, mother?"

She smiled and kissed him. His cleverness was pleasing to her, but his loving ambition to be
of service to her was still more grateful to her mother's heart.

The famous Benjamin West said his mother's kiss made him a painter. Robbie Barnes might have
said the same thing, for from that moment he was more than ever determined to persevere. A
few weeks after this, Robbie and Thomas were out in the woods together. It was a holiday with
them both, and Robbie had determined to spend the time in sketching a certain landscape he
had in view. They had brought their dinner with them; and while Robbie was drawing, Thomas
laid out the provisions. Having got it all ready, he went off to the brook to fetch a mug of
water, and as he returned called to Robbie to come to dinner. But what was his annoyance, as
he came near, to see the mischievous dog munching the last piece of cheese? In sudden passion
he caught up a stick and gave chase to Pink, who scampered off with the cheese in his mouth.
Robbie was so amused at the comical scene that he thought he would attempt a painting of it,
and this idea set Thomas laughing as heartily as himself. It was weeks before he had finished
the sketch; but when it was completed, it made a striking picture for a boy of his age.

Years passed, and Robbie worked faithfully at his painting, and made such progress that Mr.
Moring urged him to go with him on a visit to the neighboring city, where he could see some
gentlemen who might be able to assist him in his desire of becoming a painter. Robbie was unwilling
to leave his mother, but she was resolved he should not lose the opportunity for her; and shortly
afterward Robbie, with Thomas and Mr. Moring, was on his way to the great city, which he had
never seen before. Arrived there, Mr. Moring took him to an exhibition of pictures, and there
introduced him again to his old friend Mr. Page. The artist, to whom Mr. Moring had already
showed the painting of the dog running off with the dinner, was exceedingly surprised that
a boy so entirely self-taught should have made such progress, and was pleased indeed to see
him again. His judgment of the merits of Robbie's work was such that Mr. Moring undertook to
have the boy instructed by one of the best teachers of drawing, and so put him in a fair way
of attaining that upon which his heart was set--the becoming a painter like Mr. Page. Robbie's
mother, though sad to part with him, gratefully consented to his leaving his home for a time
for this purpose; and though Robbie was much troubled to think what his mother would do without
the little help he had been able to render her, he was persuaded that the best way to serve
her was to improve himself. He had not been long away before a message came to his mother telling
her that he could earn enough by the sale of his little drawings to pay one of the village-lads
to fetch wood and water, and to do other little things for her; that he was improving very
fast, and that he had good reason to hope that he should one day be able to earn enough to
keep them all in comfort.

Little Maria was busy braiding straw when this message came.

"I shall not want Robbie to work for me, mother," she said. "I shall soon be able to earn my
own living, and I will help to support our dear mother when she grows old."

"God bless you, my child!" said the happy mother. "With such dutiful children as you and your
dear brother, no mother need fear to grow old."

    You're starting to-day on life's journey,
      Along on the highway of life;
    You'll meet with a thousand temptations;
      Each city with evil is rife.
    This world is a stage of excitement;
      There's danger wherever you go;
    But if you are tempted in weakness,
      Have courage, my boy, to say NO!

THE RUSTIC MIRROR.

    Sadie's boudoir is a meadow,
      Carpeted with blue-eyed grass;
    Slender birches, rounded maples,
      Frame her inlaid looking-glass.

    Curtains woven up in cloud-land
      Trail their fringes over all,
    Shifting shadows gray and purple,
      Which aerial elves let fall.

    Hither Sadie, morn and evening,
      Comes for water from the spring,
    Pausing ere she fills her pitcher
      Where the greenest mosses cling,--

    Pausing where, as in a mirror,
      She a wistful face beholds;
    Magic mirror, for within it
      Many a vision fair unfolds.

    When the April clouds are driven
      Over depths of azure skies,
    Windows open into heaven,
      And she sees her mother's eyes.

    When she binds upon her forehead
      Wreath of daisies twined with wheat,
    She is queen, and wears a jewelled
      Crown, with slippers on her feet.

    When the glories of October,
      Crimson maple, golden birch,
    Make her mirror finer, richer,
      Than stained windows of a church,--

    She of golden-rod and aster
      Weaves a garland for her hair,
    Leans above the magic mirror,
      Murmuring, "Mother called me fair."

    But 'tis best when clouds are flying
      O'er the clear blue April skies,
    And through dreamy depths she gazes
      Into heaven and mother's eyes.

                                  M. R. W.

LITTLE RED RIDING-HOOD.

    Come back, come back together,
      All ye fancies of the past,
    Ye days of April weather,
      Ye shadows that are cast
        By the haunted hours before!
    Come back, come back, my childhood;
      Thou art summoned by a spell
    From the green leaves of the wildwood,
      From beside the charmed well,
      For Red Riding-Hood, the darling,
        The flower of fairy lore.

    The fields were covered over
      With colors as she went;
    Daisy, buttercup and clover
      Below her footsteps bent;
        Summer shed its shining store;
    She was happy as she pressed them;
      Beneath her little feet;
    She plucked them and caressed them;
      They were so very sweet;
      They had never seemed so sweet before
    To Red Riding-Hood, the darling,
      The flower of fairy lore.

    How the heart of childhood dances
      Upon a sunny day!
    It has its own romances,
      And a wide, wide world have they--
        A world where Phantasie is king,
    Made all of eager dreaming;
      When once grown up and tall--
    Now is the time for scheming--
      Then we shall do them all!
        Do such pleasant fancies spring
      For Red Riding-Hood, the darling,
        The flower of fairy lore?

    She seems like an ideal love,
      The poetry of childhood shown,
    And yet loved with a real love,
      As if she were our own--
        A younger sister for the heart;
    Like the woodland pheasant,
      Her hair is brown and bright;
    And her smile is pleasant,
      With its rosy light.
      Never can the memory part
    With Red Riding-Hood, the darling,
        The flower of fairy lore.

    Did the painter, dreaming
      In a morning hour,
    Catch the fairy seeming
      Of this fairy flower?
        Winning it with eager eyes
    From the old enchanted stories,
      Lingering with a long delight
    On the unforgotten glories
      Of the infant sight?
        Giving us a sweet surprise
      In Red Riding-Hood, the darling,
        The flower of fairy lore?

    Too long in the meadow staying,
      Where the cowslip bends,
    With the buttercups delaying
      As with early friends,
        Did the little maiden stay.
    Sorrowful the tale for us;
      We, too, loiter 'mid life's flowers,
    A little while so glorious,
      So soon lost in darker hours,
        All love lingering on their way,
    Like Red Riding-Hood, the darling,
      The flower of fairy lore.

                 LÆTITIA ELIZABETH LANDON.

HOW MAGGIE PAID THE RENT.

Presence of mind is one of the rarest, as it is one of the most enviable of endowments. It
is the power of instantaneously forming a judgment, and acting upon it, and includes not only
moral courage, but self-possession. No matter how brave a man may be in the face of expected
peril,--if he lacks presence of mind, he is helpless in a sudden emergency. But, as this quality
is an ingredient of the highest courage, the bravest men invariably possess it. The presence
of mind of one man has often saved thousands of lives in sudden peril, on sea or land. This
is naturally enough regarded as a distinctively masculine virtue; but it is one that both sexes
may profitably cultivate, as is shown by the following story. Girls as well as boys should
be taught self-reliance--to depend on themselves, to think quickly and act promptly. Perhaps
no emergency will arise in their lives in which the importance of such mental training shall
be illustrated; but it is well to be prepared "for any fate," and the discipline which produces
this virtue gives strength and symmetry to the whole intellectual organism.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Is supper nearly ready, Maggie? It is time for Jack to return from his work."

The speaker was an elderly woman in a widow's garb, and the person she addressed was her granddaughter,
a pleasant-looking girl, who might perhaps have been fourteen years of age.

"Yes, grandmother, it is just ready, such as it is," replied Maggie; "but I could wish poor
Jack had a better meal after his hard work than what we are able to give him."

"Ay, ay, child, I wish it as much as you can; but what is to be done? Wishing will never make
us rich folk, and we may be thankful if worse troubles than a poor supper do not come upon
us soon."

So spoke the grandmother, and taking the spectacles from her nose, she wiped their dim glasses
with her apron.

"Why, grandmother, what do you mean?" cried Maggie, looking up in alarm. "What worse troubles
can be coming, think you?" And eagerly and anxiously she fixed her bright blue eyes upon her
grandmother's face.

"Well," replied the old woman, "the truth is just this, Maggie: I hear that the new landlord
is going to make some changes among his tenants; the cottages are all to be repaired, and the
folks who can pay higher rents will stay, while those who cannot must find lodging elsewhere.
And how can we ever pay a higher rent, Maggie? Even now, every penny of poor Jack's earnings
is spent at the end of the week, and yet we live as cheaply as ever we can."

For a moment or two the girl's face was as perturbed and downcast as that of her grandmother's,
and she bent over her knitting in silence; but by an evident effort she quickly assumed a more
cheerful aspect. And advancing to the old lady's side, and placing a gentle hand on her shoulder,
she said,--

"Don't fret, dear grandmother; God has cared for us so far, and he will never suffer us to
want, if we put our trust in him. That's what father used to say, and what he said up to the
very day of his death."

So saying, Maggie stooped and kissed the withered cheek of that father's mother, thereby enforcing,
as it were, her encouraging words.

"God bless you, my child!" sobbed the old woman, returning the kiss. "You remind me of what
I am too apt to forget. Yes, Maggie, your father's God is our God, and he will never forsake
his people. I will wipe away these tears, and put faith in him for the future." And the grandmother
dried her eyes, and rising from her low seat, said cheerfully, "Maggie, dear, go to the gate,
and watch for your brother Jack. When you see him coming across the field, let me know, and
I will dish up the supper, so as to have it ready."

Maggie put down her work, and passing through the low doorway of the cottage, stood presently
at the little gate that separated the tiny garden from the meadow of a neighboring farmer,
who turned his cattle out there to graze.

Opening the gate, Maggie leaned against it, while with one hand she shaded her eyes from the
yet dazzling beams of the sinking sun, which bathed with its parting radiance the western horizon,
and crimsoned the landscape around.

A moment or two she thus stood, but Jack did not appear; and wondering why he should be so
late, Maggie was about to retrace her steps in order to fetch her knitting, when, from that
corner of the field which by a stile communicated with the landlord's grounds, she saw a little
child emerge, dressed in a bright red frock and jacket, and running heedlessly along, nearer
and nearer to the cattle, which hitherto had been grazing quietly in the centre of the field.

Now, however, as the little one approached, directing her steps so as to pass them closely,
they raised their heads, and a huge bull, the king and guardian of the herd, attracted doubtless
and enraged by the color of the scarlet dress, bounded away from his companions, and with his
savage head bent, and his tail raised, gave chase to the child, who, frightened at the bellowing
of the angry beast, quickened her pace, and fled screaming towards the cottage gate, at which
Maggie was standing. But the utmost speed of which the little one was capable was nothing to
the long gallop of the bull, and in the first moment that Maggie witnessed the child's danger,
her quick presence of mind and tender heart resolved to do what many strong men, less self-forgetful,
would not have dared to attempt.

Tearing from her head a colored kerchief, which she had thrown over it before she came out,
she sprang through the gateway into the meadow, and bounding lightly over the turf, in another
minute she had placed herself between the fierce animal and the child. On in his headlong fury
came the gigantic brute, and was about to pass Maggie, seeing only the scarlet frock just beyond,
when the intrepid girl, springing forward, dashed the kerchief across his eyes, and before
he had time to recover himself and recommence his pursuit, she had turned, snatched up the
little one, and was running towards the cottage gate. Close behind the fugitives followed the
bull, now recovered from his momentary astonishment; but Maggie's feet were winged, for she
felt that through God's help she should save the child.

A few more rapid steps, and the gate was reached and barred, while Maggie tottered into the
house, still carrying the child, and in the reaction of the fearful excitement, fell fainting
on the floor.

Maggie's fainting fit, however, did not last long; and she was fully restored, and had told
her grandmother the whole story, before Jack arrived, half an hour later.

He, too, had something to recount. On his way home from the landlord's grounds, where he had
been working, he was overtaken by a young woman, who seemed in a great state of alarm. She
told Jack that she was the nursery maid, and that while that afternoon she was sitting at work
beneath one of the trees, with the children playing around her, one of them--little Gertrude,
a child about six years old--must have slipped away from her brother and sisters unobserved;
and when tea time came, and the nurse rose to bring the children home, she was nowhere to be
found. The nurse had taken the other three little ones home, and had now come in search of
Gertrude, fearful lest she should fall into danger of any kind.

Jack would not stop to eat his supper, after telling his own story and hearing Maggie's, but
announced his intention of at once carrying the little truant lady back to her home.

So the kind-hearted youth took Gertrude in his arms, and soon conveyed her safely to the landlord's
house, where she astonished every one by the childish recital of her own danger and Maggie's
courage.

The next morning Gertrude's mother came down to the cottage to thank Maggie for the preservation
of her darling's life, and to bring a message from her husband.

This message consisted of his grateful acknowledgments, and of the promise that Jack should
be promoted to the office of assistant gardener as soon as that post was vacant (which would
be in the course of a few weeks). But, best of all, the promise included also this, namely,
that the widow and her grandchildren should hold the cottage rent free for the remainder of
their lives.

Thus was averted, by means wholly unforeseen, the trial of poverty and want so dreaded by the
old widow in her thoughts of the future; and never again was she heard to repine, or even to
express a fear for herself or for those whom she loved.

DECLAMATION--FAITHFUL UNTO DEATH;

OR, THE SENTRY OF HERCULANEUM.[B]

    "Dark's the night, dun's the sky with smoke;
      Never more my guard they'll change;
    Three hours ago I could crack my joke,
      And now e'en the thought seems strange.

    "Hark! the thunder bellows loud,
      And the night's come down apace,
    And the lava flame, through its sulphurous cloud,
      Is ruddy on my face.

    "With a crash did yon temple fall;
      But ever, through all the din,
    Shrill rose a death-wail o'er all,
      The vestals' screams within.

    "Men are running, away, away,
      With tight zones up yonder street;
    But a soldier of Rome must stay
      At his post, as seems him meet.

    "I remember my levying morn--
      I remember my sacred vow;
    And I'd hold it matter of scorn
      In death's teeth to break it now.

    "Jove! lava is all around--
      It nears me with scorching breath;
    It hisses along the ground
      To my feet, and the hiss means--death.

    "I've fought as a soldier should
      'Neath many an alien sky,
    And at home at my post I've stood
      Amidst cowards, and now, to die.

    "Great Mars, give me heart of grace
      Triarii,[C] over the bowl
    Say, 'He died with a smile on his face,
      And glory in his soul'!"

                         W. B. B. STEVENS.

FOOTNOTES:

[B] Overwhelmed, together with Pompeii, by a lava eruption, A. D. 79.

[C] The Roman Triarii were old soldiers, of approved valor, who formed the third line in a
legion--hence their name.

VACATION.

    O, master, no more of your lessons!
      For a season we bid them good by,
    And turn to the manifold teachings
      Of ocean, and forest, and sky.
    We must plunge into billow and breaker;
      The fields we must ransack anew;
    And again must the sombre woods echo
      The glee of our merry-voiced crew.

    From teacher's and preacher's dictation--
      From all the dreaded lore of the books--
    Escaped from the thraldom of study,
      We turn to the babble of brooks;
    We hark to the field-minstrels' music,
      The lowing of herds on the lea,
    The surge of the winds in the forest,
      The roar of the storm-angered sea.

    To the tree-tops we'll climb with the squirrels;
      We will race with the brooks in the glens;
    The rabbits we'll chase to their burrows;
      The foxes we'll hunt to their dens;
    The woodchucks, askulk in their caverns,
      We'll visit again and again;
    And we'll peep into every bird's nest
      The copses and meadows contain.

    For us are the blackberries ripening
      By many a moss-covered wall;
    There are bluehats enough in the thickets
      To furnish a treat for us all;
    In the swamps there are ground-nuts in plenty;
      The sea-sands their titbits afford;
    And, O, most delectable banquet,
      We will feast at the honey-bee's board!

    O, comrades, the graybeards assure us
      That life is a burden of cares;
    That the highways and byways of manhood
      Are fretted with pitfalls and snares.
    Well, school-days have their tribulations;
      Their troubles, as well as their joys.
    Then give us vacation forever,
      If we must forever be boys!

                            BEVERLY MOORE.

UNCLE JOHN'S SCHOOL-DAYS.

This picture reminds me, children, of some funny stories that I have heard your uncle John
tell, when he and I were boy and girl together, of his exploits as a schoolboy. According to
his account, not only he, but most of his schoolfellows, used to lead merry lives enough at
school. They had what they called the "Academy Band," and grand music it made, with a hat-box
for a drum, cricket-bat for violoncello, and paper flute and trumpets. You would not recognize
Uncle John, whom you know only as a man six feet high, in that little lad on the left side
of the picture with a battledore for a fiddle. They had a great deal of what he called excellent
fun, though I am afraid it sometimes bordered upon mischief or naughtiness. I used to consider
that he and his schoolfellows were regular heroes as I listened to his stories when he came
home for the holidays; and even now I must confess I cannot help laughing when I think of some
of his naughty pranks.

Uncle John first went to a large school when he was eleven years old, and I remember now the
tremendous hamper of good things he took with him. The boys who slept in his bedroom were so
pleased with the contents of his hamper that they determined to make a great feast. To add
to their enjoyment, they imagined themselves to be settlers in the backwoods of America or
Australia. They built a log hut with bolsters, and had a sort of picnic. One of them mounted
on the top of the log hut to look out with his telescope for any approaching savages, while
the others enjoyed their suppers in and about the hut. When their fun was at its height, the
door softly opened, and in walked Dr. Birchall, spectacles on nose and cane in hand. What followed
may be imagined.

You know that Uncle John is an engineer now, and even as a little boy he had a great turn for
mechanical inventions. Well, he pondered over some means by which such a sudden interruption
to the enjoyment of his schoolfellows might be prevented in future; and I will tell you what
he did.

It happened that the large room in which he slept formed the upper floor of a wing of the house
which had been added to it when it became a school; and there was no access to this room from
the principal staircase of the house. You had to pass through the room below and go up a little
separate staircase to reach to the floor above. The lower room was also a bedroom for the boys,
and Uncle John's little scheme was this:

He made a hole with a gimlet in the frame of one of the windows of his bedroom, passed a piece
of string through the hole, and carried it outside the wall of the house down to a similar
hole in a window-frame of the room below. To the end of the string in the upper room was fastened
a small rattle, while the other end of the string--that in the room below--was taken into the
bed of a boy who slept near the window.

This admirable little invention once in order, there was more rioting in the upper room than
ever; and the master, disturbed by the noise, soon went, cane in hand, to stop it. The instant
he set foot in the lower room the boy there who held the string in bed gave it a little pull:
the rattle sounded--ting! ting!--in the room above, and in an instant every boy was in bed
and snoring. Perhaps they had been playing at leap-frog the moment before, but as Dr. Birchall
entered the room--and he crept up the staircase very quietly, that he might catch them unawares--he
found some twenty boys lying in bed, seemingly sound asleep, though snoring unnaturally loud.

The doctor was so disconcerted by this unexpected state of things that he retired at once,
fancying perhaps that his ears had deceived him when he thought he had heard a noise in the
room. The same thing happened two or three times; the doctor was puzzled, and the invention
appeared a complete success; but at last all was discovered.

The boys one evening began imprudently to play at "tossing in the blanket" before they were
undressed. The rattle sounded, and they had just time to hide away the blanket. But the doctor
coming in, and finding they were only then beginning to undress, knew they must have been at
some mischief, and began questioning one after another. Unluckily, while he was in the room
the rattle sounded again by accident; perhaps the boy in the room below had pulled the string
by moving in bed. The doctor looked about, found the rattle hanging just below the window,
saw the string, opened the window and traced its course outside, went down into the room below,
and understood the whole arrangement. Then he put the rattle in his pocket and went away without
saying a word. The boys declared he had such difficulty in keeping himself from laughing that
he was afraid to speak lest he should burst out.

However, next day every boy in that room had a slight punishment, and so the matter ended.

Now I will tell you another of Uncle John's pranks at school. There was a large tree in the
playground, the upper branches of which spread out very near to the windows of the bedroom
I have been describing. One evening Uncle John got hold of a large hand-bell which was used
for ringing the boys up in the morning; and climbing up the tree, he fastened it by a piece
of string to a branch near the top. Then another boy threw him the end of a long string from
a window of the bedroom into the tree, and he fastened it to the bell in such a way that when
it was pulled in the bedroom it made the bell ring in the tree. Having accomplished this arrangement,
he came down from the tree and went to bed.

At ten o'clock at night the household was disturbed by the loud ringing of this bell. The master,
in his dressing-gown, came out into the playground, and soon discovered where the sound came
from, but of course supposed that some boy had climbed up into the tree, and was ringing the
bell there. It was the middle of summer, and a beautiful moonlight night, so the boys could
see from the windows all that took place. Dr. Birchall stood at the foot of the tree, looking
up, and exclaimed, angrily,

"Come down, you naughty boy! Come down, I say, directly! Oh, I'll give you such a flogging!
Stop that horrible noise, I tell you, and come down!"

The bell still went on ringing. At last the string--being pulled too hard, I suppose, in the
excitement of the fun--broke, and the bell tumbled down from the top of the tree, falling very
near the old schoolmaster. This was worse than all.

"What!" he exclaimed; "you throw the bell at me? Why, if it had hit me on the head, it might
have killed me. Oh, you wicked boy! I'll expel you, sir. I'll find out who you are if I stop
here till morning."

At last, however, his patience was exhausted, and he went away, but left an old butler to watch
the tree all night. The boys from the windows could see this man settle himself comfortably
on a seat which was at the foot of the tree. He lighted his pipe, and prepared to carry out
his master's orders and watch till daylight. By three o'clock in the morning the dawn broke;
then the man began to look up occasionally into the tree. Now and then he walked a little distance
away, first in one direction, and then in another, to look into parts of the tree that he could
not see from underneath. He kept this up till the sun had risen and it was broad daylight;
then at last he became convinced that it was impossible there could be a boy in the tree. He
walked slowly into the house, still smoking his pipe, with a puzzled expression on his face.

And I suspect he was not the only person who felt puzzled. The next day the boys were going
home for the holidays, so that no further inquiry could be made. I wonder if Dr. Birchall ever
found out how it had been managed?

FAITHFUL FRIENDS.

The dog has sometimes been called the "friend of man." This is because, of all animals, it
is the one whose attachment to mankind is purely personal. It is found in almost every part
of the world, sharing every variation of climate and outward lot with the human race. There
are only a few groups of islands in the Southern Pacific Ocean where this valuable creature
is wanting. Without its aid, how could men have procured sustenance among tribes to whom the
art of tilling the land was not known? or how could they have resisted the attacks of the beasts
of prey that roamed in the forests around them?

Anecdotes of dogs, when they are well attested, are always welcome; and I will therefore relate
a few.

There were some time ago two families, one living in London, the other at Guildford, seventeen
miles distant. These families were very friendly with each other, and for several years it
was the custom of the one residing in London to pass the Christmas with the one at Guildford.
It was the visitors' uniform practice to arrive to dinner the day before Christmas day; and
they were accompanied by a large spaniel, which was a great favorite with both families.

These visits were thus regularly paid for seven years. At the end of that time an unfortunate
misunderstanding between the friends caused the usual Christmas invitation from the country
to be omitted. About an hour before dinner, on the day before Christmas day, the Guildford
gentleman, who was standing at his window, exclaimed to his wife,--

"Well, my dear, the ----s have thought better of it. I declare they are coming as usual, though
we did not invite them; here comes Cæsar to announce them."

Sure enough, the dog came trotting up to the door, and was admitted, as he had often been before,
to the parlor. The lady of the house gave orders to prepare beds; dinner waited an hour; but
no guests arrived.

Cæsar, after staying the exact number of days to which he had been accustomed, one morning
set off for home, and reached it in safety. The correspondence which this visit of the favorite
spaniel occasioned, had the happy effect of renewing the intercourse of the estranged friends.
As long as Cæsar lived, he paid the annual visit, in company with his master and mistress,
to Guildford.

"A Frenchman named Chabert, who, from his wonderful performances with fire, was known as the
'Fire King,' was the owner of a very beautiful Siberian dog, which, when yoked to a light carriage,
used to draw him twenty miles a day. Chabert sold him for nearly two hundred pounds; for the
creature was as docile as he was beautiful. Between the sale and the delivery, the dog happened
to get his leg broken. Chabert, to whom the money was of great importance, was almost in despair,
expecting that the lamed animal would be returned, and the price demanded back. He took the
dog by night to a veterinary surgeon, and formally introduced them to each other. He was afterwards
submissive, and lay all but motionless day after day, until, at the end of a month, the limb
was sound and whole once more. So perfect was the cure, that the purchaser never knew the dog
had sustained any injury."

I will finish my paper with a story of a dog that saved the life of a French soldier who was
wounded in one of the terrible battles that have been lately fought in France:--

"The man had been struck by a ball in the chest, near the village of Ham, and lay on the ground
for six hours after the fighting was over. He had not lost consciousness; but the blood was
flowing freely, and he was gradually getting weaker and weaker. There were none but the dead
near him; and his only living companion was an English terrier, which ran restlessly about
him, with his master's kepi, or military cap, in his mouth.

"At last the dog set off at a trot; and the wounded soldier made sure that now his last friend
had deserted him. The night grew dark, the cold was intense, and he had not even the strength
to touch his wounds, which every instant grew more and more painful.

"At length his limbs grew cold, and, feeling a sickly faintness steal upon him, he gave up
all hope of life, and recommended himself to the mercy of God. Suddenly he heard a bark, which
he knew belonged to only one little dog in the world, then felt something lick his face, and
saw the glare of lanterns. The dog had wandered for miles till he arrived at a road-side cabaret,
or country wine-shop. The people had heard the cannonading all day, and seeing the kepi in
the dog's mouth, and noticing his restless movements, decided to follow him. He took them straight
to the spot--too straight for a little cart they had brought with them to cross fields and
hedges--but just in time. When the friendly help arrived, the man fainted; but he was saved.
There were honest tears in the man's eyes when he was telling me," says the narrator; "and
I fully believed him. The dog, too, had been slightly touched in the leg by a ball in the same
battle, and has since been lame. He got him, when a puppy, from an English sailor at Dunkirk,
and called him 'Beel;' very probably the French for Bill."

This little terrier showed something more than instinct--some share, at least, of common sense.
At all events, he deserves to be immortalized; so here you have his portrait, with the cap
in his mouth, begging the people whom he has found in the way-side inn to come to the help
of his wounded master.

                                                          X.

THE ERL KING.

    Who rideth so late through the night-wind wild?
    It is the father with his child;
    He has the little one well in his arm,
    He holds him safe, and he folds him warm.

    "My son, why hidest thy face so shy?"
    "Seest thou not, father, the Erl King nigh?
    The Erlen King, with train and crown?"
    "It is a wreath of mist, my son."

    "Come, lovely boy, come go with me;
    Such merry plays I will play with thee!
    Many a bright flower grows on the strand,
    And my mother has many a gay garment at hand."

    "My father, my father, and dost thou not hear
    What the Erl King whispers in my ear?"
    "Be quiet, my darling, be quiet, my child;
    Through withered leaves the wind howls wild."

    "Come, lovely boy, wilt thou go with me?
    My daughters fair shall wait on thee,
    My daughters their nightly revels keep,
    They'll sing, and they'll dance, and they'll rock thee to sleep."

    "My father, my father, and seest thou not
    The Erl King's daughters in yon dim spot?"
    "My son, my son, I see, and I know
    'Tis the old gray willow that shimmers so."

    "I love thee; thy beauty has ravished my sense;
    And willing or not, I will carry thee hence."
    "O, father, the Erl King now puts forth his arm--
    O, father, the Erl King has done me harm."

    The father shudders, he hurries on;
    And faster he holds his moaning son;
    He reaches his home with fear and dread,
    And lo! in his arms the child was dead.

              From the German of Goethe.

THE SILLY YOUNG RABBIT.

TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN.

        There was a young rabbit
        Who had a bad habit--
    Sometimes he would do what his mother forbid.
        And one frosty day,
        His mother did say,
    "My child you must stay in the burrow close hid;
        For I hear the dread sounds
        Of huntsmen and hounds,
    Who are searching around for rabbits like you;
        Should they see but your head,
        They would soon shoot you dead,
    And the dogs would be off with you quicker than boo!"

        But, poor foolish being!
        When no one was seeing,
    Looking out from his burrow to take a short play,
        He hopped o'er the ground
        With many a bound,
    And looked around proudly, as if he would say,
        Do I fear a man?
        Now catch me who can!
    So this young rabbit ran to a fine apple tree,
        Where, gnawing the bark,
        He thought not to hark
    The coming of hunters, so careless was he.
        Now, as rabbits are good
        When roasted or stewed,
    A man came along hunting rabbits for dinner;
        He saw little bun,
        Then raised his big gun,
    And there he lay dead, the foolish young sinner.

NINO.

The rain was just beginning to fall in a thin, chilling drizzle, and the cold air nipped sharply
any unwary toe that showed itself, as Nino played a little air full of thoughts of birds and
flowers. His thin jacket was no protection, and his dark eyes looked as if a shower might drop
from them; but the clouds had been over his life too long, and there were no tears left to
fall. He was not so old that this must be the case; but he stood alone in the wide street,
and no one spoke to or noticed him. One friend he had--his guitar; and now he put that under
his jacket, lest the rain should hurt it.

"Ah, carissima!" he murmured, as he hugged it under his arm; "you are never hungry or tired,
and you shall not be wet. One of us shall be happy."

The guitar gave a little whisper as his jacket rubbed against it, and Nino smiled and nodded
in answer. Now the rain was falling rapidly, and he stepped under an awning, to wait until
it held up. There was a lady standing there, her skirts held high, and her cloak drawn closely,
and Nino stood one side; for why should he be near any one? He well knew no one wanted him.
He watched the water run by in the gutter, and looked into the barrel of apples at his side--large,
rosy apples, that would be so good; and he glanced up to see if any one saw him. Why not take
one? He could hide it, and eat it afterwards. The grocer had so many; he had none, and it was
days since he had eaten anything but dry bread. He knew it was not right to take what belonged
to another; but he heard so little of right, and hunger and want pressed him every day.

As he stood thinking, not quite resolved to take one, there was a patter of little feet, a
merry laugh, and a bright vision stood by his side.

Was she a fairy? She looked as he always felt his guitar would look if it could take a human
form--slender, active, fair. A shower of golden hair, not pale, but bright, like the summer
sun; eyes as deep and blue as the distant sky; a face of which one would dream. Nino held his
breath, and as the blue velvet coat brushed his ragged arm, drew a sigh, and stepped back.

"Did I frighten you, little boy?" asked the child. "It was raining so hard, and nursey had to run."

"Come, stand in here, where it does not drip," cried the nurse, drawing her away.

Nino peeped under his coat, to be sure his guitar had not been transformed, and then stepped
aside under the eaves. It seemed as if he ought to be wet when such a lovely being was obliged
to endure the discomfort of standing there. As she chattered, he drew near again, and wondered
whether angels did not look like that. She was certainly more beautiful than those in churches.
He had forgotten that he was cold, and was feeling very happy, when the intentness of his gaze
attracted the child's attention. She was whispering to her nurse, when a harsh voice cried out,--

"Boy, go away from there! I can't watch those apples all the time."

Nino had thoughtlessly laid his hand on the barrel, and when the grocer spoke, moved hastily away.

"Here, little boy," cried the silvery tones of the child; "don't go; I want to give you an
apple." Then she said to the grocer, "A big one, please."

"Yes, miss; I did not notice you were there; but those boys are so bad!"

Nino's face flushed, and his eyes glittered; but when the child handed him the apple, he smiled,
touched his hat, and said,--

"Thankee, little lady."

As he walked away, he did not notice the falling drops, but laid his cheek against the apple,
and smoothed its plump rosiness before he tasted its rich juiciness.

Nino had no associates among the rough boys in the streets; he had a pride that kept him above
their coarse ways. As he played and sang the songs he learned in Italy, dim memories of a better
life came to him, and his music seemed a holy spirit. He would have died but for that, his
life was so cold, hard, and bare.

He had been brought over by a sea captain, who dealt in boys; and as he was very ill on the
voyage, the captain let an old woman take him for a small sum. She thought his thin, sad face
would move the passers, and in pity they would give him money. For this reason she sent him
out day after day, in storm or shine, ill clad and weary, giving him but little food. But nature
helped him. In spite of this treatment, he became stronger, and after a time ran away from
her. Then he joined himself to a party of boy musicians, and by their help got his guitar.
But they were unkind to him; for he was yet weak and timid, and the leader, a large boy, sometimes
beat him if he refused to play. One night Nino ran away from them, his precious guitar under
his arm; and since then he had played and sung through the streets, sometimes begging, sometimes
in despair, with thoughts of stealing.

His chief delight and comfort was to lie in the sun on a fair day. He was always hungry, almost
always cold, and when the wind did not blow, and the sun was hot, he liked to bask on a step,
and dream of good dinners, pretty clothes, and a soft bed. The sun was the only thing he could
find in the cold northern climate which was like his old home. In this way he would be nearly
happy; but when storms came, he was chilled within and without. The world then was gray; he
could not even play on his guitar, which in sunny days brought him pleasant pictures of green
fields, dancing water, and leafy vines, loaded with purple grapes.

His guitar was his only companion, and he treated it as if it was alive; he talked to it, cared
for and loved it with a tenderness which was of no value to the instrument, but was of service
to the friendless boy, in giving him an unselfish motive.

The autumn was fast advancing when he met the golden-haired child; and as the days became colder,
he cherished the thought of her, and it made him warm when the sky was cloudy, as if she was
a ray of sunlight. He had generally slept on steps or any spot where the police would leave
him unmolested; but now the nights were so chill, that he tried hard with a few cents to pay
for a lodging.

With this purpose in his mind, he stopped before a house in a private street one evening just
after dark. The gas was already lighted; but the curtains were not drawn, and Nino could see
the table bountifully spread, and a servant moving about, adding various articles to it. A
dancing figure passed and repassed the window, now peeping out, and again running back. Nino's
voice trembled as he saw this light and warmth; and as he sang of "love and knightly deeds,"
he thought of himself out in the cold, with nothing to love but his guitar, and he felt very sad.

In a moment the door opened, and out sprang the child he had thought of so long. The light
seemed to follow her, and she cried,--

"Here are some pennies." Nino removed his ragged hat, and held it out, and she said, "O, you're
the same little boy! Wait a minute, and I'll get you a cake."

Nino stood with his hat off until she returned and gave him a cake.

"You play such pretty tunes! and I know you now; for I've seen you twice," she said, folding
her hands, and looking at him.

Nino murmured,--

"Thankee, pretty lady," and looked at her as if she was a being from another world.

"What is your name?" she asked.

"Nino."

"Come, darling; don't stand out there," called her mother from the house.

"My name's Viola. Good by," she cried, as she ran in.

Nino sang one more song, and then kissing his hand to the little form at the window, went on
his way happy. The money brought him a night's lodging and permission to leave his guitar.
In the morning--for the following day was Sunday, and if he carried it with him, the police
might arrest him for trying to play--he made a light breakfast on a roll, and went to the street
where Viola lived, to see if he could meet her. As the bells were ringing, she came down the
steps with her parents, and Nino followed at a respectful distance, until they went into church.
Nino attempted to go in also; but the sombre sexton at the door frightened him with a severe
look, and he wandered on. After a time he came to a mission church, where, by a sign, all were
invited to enter. Taking a back seat, and trying to understand the preacher, he fell asleep.
When he awoke, the preacher was gone; but the room was full of ragged children, and for the
first time Nino found himself in a Sunday school.

The teacher nearest to him was a sweet-faced lady, who spoke gently to the boys of being kind
to others, and patient with those who had not the chance to learn that they had; she told them
stories, to show them how kindness would return to them, and how happy it made them to have
others gentle with them. Nino listened, and thought of Viola; and when all sang some hymns
while a lady played the piano, a new life stirred in him.

When the services were over, the teacher gave him a paper, and asked him to come again. He
sat on the steps after all were gone, looking at the pictures, and when he returned to his
lodging went around by Viola's house, and was rewarded by seeing her sitting in the window
with a book. When he reached the wretched place where he had spent the night, and looked for
his guitar, he could not find it. Asking the woman about it, she said she was cleaning up,
and it was somewhere on the floor. Nino's heart began to swell, and when he found it in one
corner, snapped and broken, his grief and anger burst forth in a volley of Italian. He hugged
it, and sobbed over it, called the woman a beast, and pointed to the ruin of his favorite in
angry despair.

In the midst of this tumult of feeling the paper he had received dropped out of his bosom,
and striking his feet, recalled the teacher's words and Viola sitting quietly by the window.
Nino stopped, and for a moment was silent, then saying, "You didn't mean to," picked up the
paper, folded his jacket over the guitar, and left the house. His anger had vanished; but his
grief remained. He spent the evening in tears and wretchedness, alternately gazing at his guitar,
stroking it, and then giving way to passionate crying. At last he slept, curled up in one corner,
and in the morning awoke with a cough which hurt his side.

Now he had only his singing to depend on; he had not been taught any useful employment, and
did not know how to work. He wandered about in the most disconsolate manner, his cough getting
worse, and his grief for his guitar, which he always carried with him, still tormenting him.
Sometimes, when people saw the poor boy crouching in a corner, hugging a broken guitar, and
crying bitterly, they would give him a few cents. He would not beg; something held him back,
and the thought of Viola would not let him steal.

On the Saturday after he had been to Sunday school, as he was sitting on a step, sadly thinking,
he saw Viola and her nurse crossing the street towards him. At that moment a carriage with
wildly running horses turned the corner. Men on the sidewalk shouted and waved their arms.
Viola, confused by their cries, turned back, and the horses, startled, dashed in the same direction.
Nino threw aside his guitar, and sprang forward, drew Viola out of danger, but fell himself,
and the carriage passed over his foot, crushing it, while in falling he hit his head against
the pavement, and lay insensible. Some of the men ran after the horses, some helped the nurse
carry Viola home,--for she was crying and trembling with fright,--and a policeman took Nino away.

When Viola was restored, she began to ask for Nino.

"It was Nino, mamma, and I want to see him," was her constant cry.

Her father and mother were also anxious to reward the brave boy who had saved their only child,
and made many inquiries to find him. The policeman had taken him to the station-house, and
there no one remembered anything about him.

"There are so many of those children brought in, madam, you have no idea. We don't pretend
to keep track of them all," was the only information they could get.

At last they were obliged to give up their search; but Viola was much dissatisfied.

About a week after the accident Viola's mother was invited by a lady friend to visit one of
the city hospitals. She took Viola with her, and as they walked by the white beds, the child
held her mother's hand tightly, and felt quite subdued at the pale, sick faces about her. But
suddenly she bounded away, and climbing on a little bed, cried,--

"O, I've found him! here he is--my dear Nino."

Nino--for it was he--shrank back into his pillows, and covering his face with his hands, cried
aloud. From the station-house he had been taken to the hospital, where his foot had to be amputated,
and he had lain for several days, with a bandaged head, in great pain. His guitar was lost,
and he had been so lonely, though the nurses were kind, that at the sight of Viola his fortitude
gave way.

"Don't cry, and don't be frightened," said Viola, kissing him, and taking her handkerchief
to wipe his tears. "I love you, dear Nino, and now I've found you."

"Is this your Nino, Viola?" asked her mother, while the nurses and other patients looked on
with surprise.

"Yes, mamma; is he not pretty?" and she tried to remove his hands.

When he was a little more composed, Viola's mother thanked and praised him for saving her daughter's
life, and persuaded him to tell her what he knew about himself. And the nurses told how patient
he had been, and she gave him some fruit, and promised to come again. When Viola bade him good
by, she put her arms about his neck and kissed him, and they left him quite happy.

A few days after they came again, and Viola cried when she saw him.

"You are going to come and live with us, and be my brother."

"If you would like to," said her mother; and Nino's eyes sparkled with joy at the thought.

Then he was carefully laid in the carriage, and taken to his beautiful new home. More than
he had ever dreamed, or fancied, came to him--books, pictures, toys, kind care, love, and a
fine new guitar, with the promise of learning to play it better. An artificial foot was to
help him walk, and the wonders and delights of his home ever multiplied.

Best of all was his sister Viola. He almost worshipped her; and it was a long time before he
could bring himself to treat her with any familiarity. When she caressed him, which was often,--for
she loved him dearly, and he was a lovable boy,--he always kissed her hands. One day she shook
her head at this, and said,--

"Nino, that is not the way; kiss me good;" and she turned her face, with its rosy mouth, towards
him.

With reverence, as if he was saluting a queen, Nino leaned towards her, and then with a sudden
impulse, caught her in his arms, and kissed her heartily. That was the seal of their affection,
and from that time Nino assumed all a brother's pride, care, and tenderness. After he had recovered,
they were constantly together, and their mother was never so content as when Nino had the charge
of Viola. He never spared himself to serve her, and she was ever an impulse to goodness and
truth, shining before him like a star, as she had from the first time he saw her. And she clung
to him with the same love she had first felt, proud of her brother, who developed a noble character;
and they all learned to thank the accident which had brought them so happily together.

                                                SARA CONANT.

COMMON THINGS.

    The sunshine is a glorious thing,
      That comes alike to all,
    Lighting the peasant's lowly cot,
      The noble's painted hall.

    The moonlight is a gentle thing;
      It through the window gleams
    Upon the snowy pillow where
      The happy infant dreams;

    It shines upon the fisher's boat
      Out on the lovely sea,
    Or where the little lambkins lie
      Beneath the old oak tree.

    The dewdrops on the summer morn
      Sparkle upon the grass;
    The village children brush them off,
      That through the meadows pass.

    There are no gems in monarchs' crowns
      More beautiful than they;
    And yet we scarcely notice them,
      But tread them off in play.

SALLY SUNBEAM.

This is not her real name. Her real name is Sally Brown. Why, then, have I called her Sally
Sunbeam? Why, because everybody else calls her so.

The reason is this: she is such a pleasant, happy, kind, sweet-tempered child that wherever
she comes she comes like a sunbeam, gladdening and brightening all around her. It was her uncle
Tom who first gave her her new name. He was spending a few days with the family for the first
time for some years, for he lived a long way off and had not seen Sally since she was a baby.
Sally became very fond of him at once, and so did he of Sally. As soon as he came down of a
morning, there was Sally with her merry, laughing eyes to greet him. Whatever he wanted done,
there was Sally with her ready willingness to do it for him. Wherever he went, there was Sally
with her merry chat and her pleased and happy face to keep him company.

And when the evening came, and Sally, with an affectionate kiss, had bidden him good-night
and gone away to bed, he felt as though a cloud had cast its shadow over the house. So one
morning, when Uncle Tom was going out for a walk and wanted Sally to go with him, he said,
"Where is my little sunbeam? Sally Sunbeam, where are you? Oh, here you are!" laughing as she
came skipping in from the garden.

"But my name is not Sally Sunbeam, uncle," she said. "My name is Sally Brown."

Her mamma smiled. "It is only your uncle's fun," she said.

"Well, it is only my fun," said Uncle Tom. "But it's a very proper name for her, for all that.
She is more like a sunbeam than anything else. So come along, Sally Sunbeam. Let us go and
have a nice walk."

And from that time Uncle Tom never called her by any other name. And other people came to call
her by it too, and everybody felt that it was as true and fitting a name for her as ever a
child could have.

Here she is in our picture, hanging up her doll's clothes, that she has just washed. How bright
and happy she looks! Uncle Tom may well call her Sally Sunbeam. But it is not only her cheerfulness
and playfulness that makes her worthy of her name. This, of itself, would not be sufficient
to make her loved as she is loved. Oh no! It is the kindness of her heart, the gentleness of
her disposition, the delight she takes in trying to make everybody happy. This is what makes
everybody love her.

Only the other day a group of several children passed the garden gate on their way from school.
There was one poor little thing amongst them whose dress was so shabby and whose shoes were
so bad as to make it evident that her parents must be very, very poor.

Sad to say, her schoolfellows were jeering her and teasing her about her appearance. One of
these especially was taunting her very cruelly, and the poor child was crying. Sally ran out
to her, and putting her arm lovingly round her said,

"What is the matter, dear? What do you cry for?"

"Because they keep on laughing at me so," sobbed the child.

"Well, who can help laughing at her?" cried the girl who had been teasing her the most. "Look
at her shoes! Do you call those shoes?"

And at this the children all burst out laughing afresh.

"You ought to be ashamed of yourselves," said Sally, "to laugh at the poor child and make her
cry. It is very cruel of you. Suppose you could not get good shoes, how would you like to be
laughed at?"

And there was something so serious and pitying in her tone that the children were ashamed of
themselves, and went off without saying another word.

"Never mind what they say," said Sally to the child. "Come into my garden till they have gone
right away. There! sit down on that seat for a minute," she said, leading her to one. "I will
be back again directly."

And she ran to her mamma, and in a great hurry told her all about it, and when the story was
finished said, "I've got a boxful of money, mamma, that I have saved to buy toys with. May
I buy the little girl a pair of new boots with it?"

"I must go and speak to her first," said her mamma.

So Sally's mamma came to the child and asked her a few questions, and found that the little
thing had no father, and that her mother was ill, and that she had several brothers and sisters,
and the good lady judged from all this how poor they must be.

Having satisfied herself that the child's mother was not likely to be offended by the gift
of a pair of boots to her little one, she said, "My little daughter here would like to buy
you a new pair of boots. Would you like to have a pair?"

"Buy me a new pair of boots!" said the child, with a look of astonishment. "Oh, but they'll
cost a lot of money. Mother has been going to buy me some for ever so long, only she hasn't
been able to get money enough."

"But I've got ever so much money that I was going to buy toys with," said Sally, "only I would
rather buy you a pair of boots if you would let me. And then those naughty girls won't be able
to tease you about your shoes any more, you know. So come along, and we'll buy them at once.
May we, mamma?"

"Yes, if you like." And away they all went together to the bootmaker's, and the money that
Sally had thought to buy herself all sorts of toys with was expended upon a nice warm pair
of boots for the stranger-child.

Don't you think that Sally must have seemed like a sunbeam to that poor little one?

But this is only one of the instances of her kindness and sympathy and goodness of heart. She
has learned of Him who all his life "went about doing good," and every day tries to follow
his blessed example. She has her faults, of course, like the rest of us, and these she has
to fight against. But it is her virtues, not her faults, that she is known by--her brightness,
her good temper, her sweetness of disposition, her kindness, her unselfishness; and this is
how it is that everybody agrees to call her Sally Sunbeam instead of Sally Brown.

AUNT THANKFUL.

She was our school teacher, a little bit of a woman, hardly larger than a good-sized doll.
She had moved into our village years before I was born; for so I heard the folks say, I don't
know how many times. Nobody seemed to know where she came from. She had no relatives--at least,
none called to see her or to visit her. Once or twice, as I grew older, I heard dark hints
whispered about Aunt Thankful, about her having left her early home to get away from unpleasant
memories, but no whisper against her character. She was a good woman, a Christian woman--only
the people called her odd.

But everybody loved her. In sickness or health, in trouble or joy, in prosperity or adversity,
everybody was sure they could depend upon assistance and sympathy, if needed, from Aunt Thankful.
She was always ready to extend her helping hand, always ready to do a generous act. She was
ever true to herself as well as to her neighbors. Perhaps that was the reason why the world
called her odd. If so, how earnestly I wish there were a great many more odd folks!

Aunt Thankful lived many years in the village before she began to keep school. I remember how
funny she used to look as she came down the street towards the school-house. She was so small
that I should not have been astonished to see her driving a hoop to school.

Then she wore her spectacles in such a funny way! What use they were to her, I never could
discover. If she looked at the scholars in the school-house, she looked over the glasses; if
she was reading or writing, she looked under them. I have often heard boys, who were considered
truthful, declare that on no occasion was she ever known to look through them.

But what made Aunt Thankful so popular with the children was her kind manner and her kinder
words. Somehow or other she used to like the poor and the friendless children the best. That
was quite a puzzle to me at first. We usually pay most attention to such as are well off, and
prosperous, and dressed nicely. But not so was it with Aunt Thankful. She took sides always
with the weak and the down-trodden. I have seen her mend many an apron, many a torn dress worn
by a poor scholar, during school hours. She did it, too, in such a kind way, that it made one
forget that they were poor. That was because she was ODD, you know.

As I grew up, I began to understand more of this good lady's character than I ever dreamed
when I went to school. I saw things in a different light, as it were. And for her many good
acts, from the fact that she was about my first school teacher, I do not think I shall ever
forget her.

There is another reason why I shall never forget Aunt Thankful. Perhaps I had better tell you
about it. She kept our village school one summer; I think it must have been the second or third
year I went to school. Anyhow, I was in one of the lower classes.

The school-house was a little box of a thing, hardly bigger than a decent-sized shed. There
was only one room in the building. The teacher sat upon a small platform on one side, while
the seats for the scholars were raised, one above the other, on the opposite side. Over the
teacher's desk was a little square window, looking out upon the horse shed in the rear.

It was a hot summer forenoon, and the windows were all open; the morning lessons had been completed.
Aunt Thankful sat writing at her desk, now and then casting her eyes round the school-room,
to see that everything was in order. But there was mischief brewing. The children were waiting
impatiently for noon recess, and more than one of them were having a quiet whisper or giggle
all by themselves.

All at once some of the children saw the mischievous face of a monkey peeping in at the little
back window behind the teacher's desk. Of course those who saw such an unusual sight laughed
outright, greatly to the astonishment of Aunt Thankful.

Rap! rap! rap! went her ruler upon the desk, as a signal for quiet. At the noise the monkey
dodged out of sight in a moment, and soon the children were restored to order. Aunt Thankful
went on writing.

To explain so unusual a sight, I ought to say that a strolling organ man, with a monkey, had
been in the village that day. He had stopped in the shed behind the school-house to eat his
dinner. Accidentally, he had fallen asleep; and his monkey, being of an inquisitive turn, had
got loose, and was exploring on his own account. He carried a part of his chain upon his neck
all the while, and somehow or other he had climbed up to the little square window, as related.

Aunt Thankful went on writing. But soon the monkey appeared again over her head, turning his
funny little face to one side and the other, showing his teeth, grinning, and going through
other performances. This time the laughing was louder than before, because more children saw
the show. I must record here that a funnier sight I never have witnessed.

The teacher looked up once more, and rapped on her desk quite indignantly. "James Collins,"
she said, with severe authority, "come here, this moment. If you cannot sit in your seat without
laughing, come and stand by me. You, too, Walter, and Solomon. And you, Martha Hapgood. I am
astonished at your conduct."

The recusant children ranged themselves before the teacher, who seemed to think she had now
quenched the rebellion. I noticed that they managed to stand so they could have a good view
of the window, as if they expected, or even hoped for, another occasion for laughing.

And they didn't wait long, either. In a minute or two the monkey appeared for the third time;
and on this occasion he came wholly into sight, chain and all, and began to dance up and down
in his peculiar way, bowing and nodding to the spectators. By this time all the children had
found out--by the usual school telegraph, I suppose--what was going on, and joined in a loud
and universal laugh.

"Sakes alive!" exclaimed Aunt Thankful, jumping up and seizing her ruler; "what's got into
the children?" Whether the monkey thought the flourish which the teacher's ruler took was a
signal for a fight or not, I never knew; but certain it is he began to scream and shake his
chain. The children laughed louder than ever. Aunt Thankful turned round, saw what the trouble
was, and raised her hands. The monkey construed this as an act of war, and with a single jump
landed on the desk. Here for a few moments he made the papers fly pretty nimbly. He upset the
inkstand, scattered the sandbox and pens, screaming all the while like mad. After he had experimented
long enough, he gave another jump out of the window; and that was the last we saw of him.

Aunt Thankful looked as white as a sheet. She was taken by surprise, and seemed really frightened.

"Marcy on us," she said, as soon as she could find words, "what a dreadful creature! You may
go to your seats, children; I guess you can be excused for laughing."

The poor lady proceeded to pick up her papers, and set matters to rights. It was quite a task.
The ink had run over all her papers and into her desk. For years after, that ink spot was pointed
out by the children to the new comers, and the story of the monkey had to be related.

Before noon the organ grinder had wakened from his after-dinner sleep, and finding out that
his monkey had been into mischief, concluded that it was best to be off. He was not seen in
the village any more.

Aunt Thankful kept school afterwards for several years, and then age compelled her to give
up her office. About that time, and just when she wanted it most, one of the inhabitants of
our village left her three thousand dollars in his will, as a "mark of his esteem." Surely
never was charity more properly bestowed, or more gratefully received. I don't think there
was a person in the world who envied her the gift, or thought it undeserved.

                                                       M. H.

[Decoration]

HOW A GOOD DINNER WAS LOST.

Ting a ling ling! a ling ling! ling ling! ling! So went the dinner bells--first mamma's, then
Mrs. Green's, Mrs. Brown's, Mrs. White's, and all the other neighbors' with colored names.
It was everybody's dinner hour; and by the way, is it not funny how everybody gets hungry together?

Dinner was to be eaten at the healthy, good old-fashioned hour of noon, between the two sessions
of school. The children were just fresh from slates, with long, crooked rows of hard figures,
and heavy atlases, with unpronounceable towns and rivers that would not be found out. There
were chickens and dough-balls for dinner. The smell of them made the children ravenous; and
they very nearly tripped up Maria and her platter in their haste to reach the table.

Mamma looked around to see if they were all there, and counted on her fingers,--

"Baby, Jelly, Tiny--Tiny, where's Bunch?"

"Why, I thought she was in the kitchen," said Tiny, looking wistfully at the tempting drumsticks.
"Papa, won't you please help us little folks first--just to-day? 'cause we're so awful hungry."

"Tiny, I do believe that Bunch has gone down to the Midgetts'. You must go and find her before
you eat your dinner; and hurry, now."

"O, dear! can't she hear the dinner bell just as well as I can?" and off flew Tiny, with the
streamers of her jockey standing straight out behind her, and her new buttoned shoes spattering
water from every mud-puddle in her way.

We were not invited; so we can't stay to dinner; but perhaps we will have time to learn something
about the little ones while Tiny is hunting her tardy sister Bunch.

Her name was not really Bunch; that is, she was not christened so. At school she answered "Present"
at roll-call to the prettier name of Florence; but uncle Tim--he's such a jolly fellow!--said,
when he first held her in her delicately-embroidered blankets, that she was such a bouncer,
so red and so dumpy, that she would never be anything but a bunch; and so dubbed, she carries
the name to this day. But did not she disappoint him, though! for, in some unaccountable way,
she daily stretched long, and flattened out, and became thin and bony. Her collar-bone grew
to be a perfect shelf, and her stockings got a very awkward fashion of wrinkling about her ankles.

Soon after, when Tiny's little red face began to screw and squint at uncle Tim, she was such
a mite that he was sure to be right this time if he nicknamed her Tiny; and she was so little,
that an ordinary pillow made her a bed of a comfortable size; and all the old cronies in the
village whispered that the new baby would either die off pretty quick, or live to be a second
Mrs. Tom Thumb. But Tiny lived, and spited them, and waxed fat and bunchy, while Bunch astonished
them all by waning lean and tiny.

Jelly's name came no one knew how. Some mischievous sprite probably whispered it to her; for
she persisted that it was her name; and so she was indulged in it.

Near their home was a vacant lot--vacant, excepting for a one-story shanty, with a cellar,
piles of broken crockery, old shoes, dislocated hoop skirts, and bushes of rank stramoniums,
with their big, poisonous blossoms. Cows strayed in the lot, munching the ugly snarls of grass,
and the neighbors' pigs and fowls made a daily promenade through the wilderness of refuse.

Although it seemed a very unattractive place for a neat little girl to visit, now especially,
since a pipe of the great sewer had overflowed, and had deluged parts of the ground. But to
that miserable shanty mamma believed her little Bunch to have strayed; and there Tiny found
her, seated on a log of wood in the corner of the largest room, with her apron thrown over
her face and the Midgett girls--there were two of them--first staring at her, and then winking
at each other.

"Bunch," said Tiny, "Bunch, mamma says to hurry right straight home; and guess what there is
for dinner. Chicken pot-pie, and it's my turn to have the wish-bone! Why, Bunch, what's the
matter with you? What a baby! You're always forever a-crying about something or other. Come
on now. I'm going right home; and you'll get an awful punishing for coming here!"

The eyes of the Midgett girls glared at her and the insult.

"O, dear! O, dear!" sobbed Bunch, just peeping from one corner of her apron at the outer door.

"O, dear, what?" snapped Tiny, in such a hurry for a drumstick.

"Tiny, did you see anything on the front stoop when you came in?" asked Bunch, her eye still
peeping at the outer door.

"Any what?"

"O, any--any cats--any wildcats?"

"Wildcats--what are they?"

"O!" said the Midgetts, shouting together; "wildcats! dreffle ones! my! yes! green eyes! awful
cats, that spit fire out o' their mouths, and claws that'll scratch yer to death;" imitating
the clawing with their long dirty fingers quite in the face of poor Bunch, who immediately
retired to the seclusion of her apron, and continued her frightened sobs.

"O, where? where?" asked Tiny, excitedly, opening wide her big blue eyes, and glancing uneasily
in every corner.

"Why, jist out o' there, hid under the stoop; an' when yer go out, they'll pounce onto yer."

"O," said Tiny, bravely, "'tain't so! I don't believe it. There wasn't any there when I came in."

"That's because they was asleep, then," said Ann Matilda. She had red, fiery red hair, was
freckled, and had tusks for teeth. "They've just got woke up now; and they're hungry, too."

"So am I," said Tiny. "Come, Bunch, let's hurry past, and they can't touch us; besides, you
know no wild animals live about here nowadays."

"O, but these ones are what comes up out of the sewer," instructed the Midgetts.

Tiny's courage began quickly to ooze away, and every bit of it deserted her when she and Bunch
just put their noses outside of the door, and heard a most ferocious ya-o-o-ing from--well,
they could not tell where.

Of the Midgett tribe, there was no one at home but the two girls. There was no Mr. Midgett,
but there was a Mrs. Midgett, who was out washing. The children had seen her plunging her hard,
red arms into the soap suds, over their mother's wash-tub. She probably had a hard time managing
a living. They were very poor. Sometimes the girls got employment as nurse girls or as extra
help in the neighbors' kitchens; but no one cared particularly to employ them, they were so
vulgar, indolent, and slovenly. So they subsisted on the odd bits of broken victuals which
they begged from door to door in baskets. Some people said they always gathered so much, that
they must keep a boarding-house to get rid of the stuff; but I always regarded this as a fine
bit of sarcasm. The Midgett mansion was a forbidden haunt of the children; but on this day
Bunch had gone, for the last time, on special business of her own.

On Christmas last, Santa Claus had visited their home, and left for each a pretty doll of the
regulation pattern, with blue eyes, and golden crimpy hair, dressed in billowy tarleton, and
the height of fashion, the beauty of which dolls quite bewildered the unaccustomed eyes of
the Midgetts when the children took their young ladyships for an airing. And so one day the
Midgetts borrowed them for a minute, while the children neglected their responsibilities, leaving
them on a door stone, while they crowded for a closer peep at the mysterious dancers in a hand-organ.
From that day to this the whereabouts of the dollships has remained a solemn secret from the
knowledge of all but the Midgetts. And it was to them Bunch had gone for a clew to her treasure.

"O," said Keziah Jane, "while we was a-standin' a-waitin' for yous two to git away from the
music, and give us a chance to peek in at the dancin', the black feller what lives down the
sewer come, and snatches 'em away; and we chases him like fury, and he run; and we never seed
those ere dolls agin--nor him nor the dolls."

"Sh! sh!" cautioned Ann Matilda. "Who's that a-knockin' at the door? Run quick in the bed-room,
and hide under the bed. Maybe it's that ere black feller, or those wildcats."

Scramble under the dirty bed went the two little girls while the door was opened. Only Jelly;
no black man, nor wildcats, either. Jelly, and unharmed; Jelly sent from mamma to escort her
naughty sisters home, but who was readily frightened into remaining with them; and so there
were three little entertainers for the Midgett ogresses that afternoon.

In the course of a half hour came another rapping at the door. What a reception the Midgetts
were having! Keziah Jane pushed the children under the bed, while Ann Matilda opened the door.
This time it was the grown-up sister Rosa.

O, how the children's hearts throbbed when they heard Rosa's pleasant voice! but they dared
to speak never a word; for Keziah Jane crawled down on the floor close beside the bed, and
looked hard at them with her wicked black eyes, and said,--

"Wildcats!"

"Are my little sisters here?" asked Rosa.

O, how they wished she was just near enough so they might pull her dress!

"O, no, mem!" said red-headed Ann Matilda, with the door opened on a most inhospitable crack.
"O, no, indeed! they haven't been here in a month. I seed 'em a-goin' to school with their
books jest as the town clock struck'd two."

"How strange!" thought Rosa. "They wouldn't have gone back to school without their dinners."

And when she reached home, she told uncle Tim that she half believed they were there, though
what could entice them to the horrible hut she could not imagine.

"O my! how cramped up my neck is!" said Bunch.

"O, O, how hungry I am!" cried Tiny, remembering the drumsticks.

"I don't like it here, and I want to go home," sobbed Jelly.

"Well, get up, then, and le's hev dinner," said the Midgetts.

Dinner! There were old baked potatoes, and a mess of turnips, and a bite of fried beefsteak,
all mixed in a heap in a rusty tin pan on the table; and Tiny whispered to Bunch that there
was "a piece of the very codfish balls which were on mamma's breakfast table." Her appetite
had deserted her, Bunch had cried hers away, and Jelly had left hers at her own bountiful table.
But the Midgetts ate, and enjoyed.

"Now," said they, "if you'll be real good, and mind, we'll give you a gay old treat. Want to
go a-swimmin'? We dunno as we mind a-givin' yer a little pleasure, pervidin' yer'll mind, and
not go near the closet where the black snake lives."

"O," shouted the children, "we don't want to go near any snakes!"

"Besides, we can't swim," said Tiny.

"Well, we'll show yer how," said Keziah Jane; "besides, yer all look jest's if a good bath
wouldn't hurt yer--don't they, Ann Matilda?"

Ann Matilda laughed, and said yes, looked down at her own bare feet, and bade the children
to "be a-takin' off their shoes and stockin's."

"Now, then, foller me," said Keziah Jane, opening the door which led to the cellar stairs.

The children looked down into the black hole, and shrank back with fear. The stairs ended in
a pool of black, muddy water, in much the same way that they do in a bona fide swimming-bath.
You will remember that a pipe of the sewer had burst, and the dirty water had overflowed the
Midgetts' cellar. To wade about in this had been the recreation of the Midgetts for days.

"Come on now," said they; "lift up your dresses, and come along."

The cellar was growing every minute lighter the longer they were in it; and soon the children
lost their fear, and began to paddle about with their naked feet, taking excellent care to
steer clear of the closet containing the black snake.

"It's getting awful, awful dark," said Jelly.

"That's so," said Bunch, wondering, and looking up to see why the small window gave so little
light. Something outside moved just then. The window was opened, and there were two faces looking
down at them--two faces full of astonishment. They belonged to Rosy and uncle Tim.

"Children, get right out of that filth, and go up stairs," ordered Rosy.

Up stairs they went, one hanging behind the other, and entered the room from the cellar just
as Rosy came in at the front door. Can you imagine how they must have looked, drenched and
spoiled with the impure water from the dainty ruffles at their throats to the very nails of
their toes? Like drowned rats! Rosy only said, with a withering glance at the Midgetts,--

"Never come to our house again for cold pieces."

Then bidding the children gather up their stockings and shoes, she marched them off barefooted
between herself and uncle Tim. Tiny's new buttoned shoes had found a watery grave; for, as
the bathers came up stairs, one of the Midgett feet pitched them gracefully into the cellar.

"Tiny," said Bunch, as they walked mournfully home, amid the astonished gaze of the returning
school children. "I don't believe there was a wildcat there any of the time."

"No, nor a black man in the sewer," said Tiny.

"Nor a black snake in the closet," said Jelly.

But there were a hot bath and clean clothing at home for them, and warm beds. Whether there
was anything more severe than a good lecture, I will leave you to guess; for mamma said they
were old enough to know better than to believe in any such ridiculous nonsense, all excepting
little Jelly.

I should be ashamed to finish the conclusion of the affair; for what do you think, children?
It all actually happened, once upon a time, to myself and two of my sisters.

                                            FANNIE BENEDICT.

    Mirth is a medicine of life:
    It cures its ills, it calms its strife;
    It softly smooths the brow of care,
    And writes a thousand graces there.

LAME SUSIE.

"Children," said Miss Ware to her little band of scholars, "Susie Dana is coming to school
next Monday. She is lame, and I want you to be kind and thoughtful toward her. She does not
show her lameness until she commences to walk, and then you can see that one of the fat little
legs is longer than the other, which makes her limp. So do not watch her as she walks. Be sure
not to run against her in your plays, and don't shut her out from them because she cannot run
and jump as you do, but choose, some of the time, plays in which she can take part. Remember,
I make this rule: When you leave the room at recess or after school, wait, every one of you,
in your places till she has passed out; then she will not be jostled or hurt in any way. Her
lameness is a hard trial for a little girl. She would like to run and dance as well as any
of you, and I do hope you will feel for her, and at least not make her burden heavier. How
many, now, will promise to try to make her happy?"

Every hand was instantly raised, and the children's clear, honest eyes met their teacher's
with a look which was a promise.

You have read stories, no doubt, of lame, blind or deformed children, and poor ones in patched
clothes, who met treatment from others harder to endure than their poverty, privation or pain.
Sometimes their schoolmates have been foolish and cruel enough to shun them, cast them out
from their plays and pleasures, brush roughly against them, talk about, and even ridicule,
them. But I hope it is not often so. In this case it was by far the reverse.

These children remembered their pledge, and they made Susie so happy that she almost forgot
her lameness. She was a cheerful, pleasant, good little girl, and her schoolmates, who had
begun by pitying her and trying to help her, soon loved to be with her.

"May I sit with Susie, Miss Ware?" became a frequent request.

"Susie dear, here's a cake I've brought you," one would say at recess.

"Take half my apple, Susie."

One day, as Susie was on her way to school she met a large drove of oxen. Poor little girl!
she was very much frightened, and the big blue eyes were fast filling with tears when Harry
Barton, one of the school-boys, stepped up before her and said, "Don't cry, Susie. I will take
care of you. Nothing shall hurt you while I am here." And right bravely he stood before her
until the last one had passed, and then took Susie to school, kindly helping her over the rough
places.

So the seasons wore on, and Susie, who, though she ardently desired to learn, had dreaded going
among other children, was always happy with them. She loved her teacher and schoolmates, and
made such progress as she could not have done had these things been different.

The summer vacation was over. The glorious days of early autumn, with sunshine glinting through
the crimson foliage, dropping nuts and golden harvests, passed swiftly away, and cold weather came.

The school-room was pleasant still with its cheery fire and bright faces. One day, when all
were busy as usual, a cry rang out,

"Fire! Fire! The school-house is on fire!"

Books and pens dropped from trembling hands, little faces paled, and eager, appealing eyes
turned instantly to the teacher.

"Run, children!" she said, hurriedly.

Only one moved--lame Susie. She limped along as fast as she could, and all the rest, frightened
as they were, remained in their places till she was safe outside the walls. Then with a rush
they cleared the room almost in an instant. Even in that time of peril and dread they remembered
their duty and kindness toward her, and gave her the richest proof in their power of their
thoughtful love. Not mere obedience to a rule could have prompted this unselfish act, and as
such a proof she must have felt it.

It is a beautiful illustration, as it is a true one, of God's love for all living and for all
times.

"As ye would they should do to you, do ye to them."

[Decoration]

THE SECRET.

    Pepper Baker, don't you tell!
      If you ever do, I'll-- Well,
    I'll do something you'll remember
      Till the last day of December.

    Pepper, look me in the eye!
      You must be as shy, as shy--
    Play, you don't know where I'm going,
      Don't know anything worth knowing!

    When the bell for breakfast rings,
      I will bring you cakes and things;
    Don't go down till Ben calls, "Pupper,
      Pupper; come and 'ave your supper!"

    What I've told you no one knows,
      Only you, and I, and Rose
    (Maybe she has told her kitty),
      No one else in Boston city.

    Pepper, look at me, and say
      With your eyes,--look straight this way,--
    With your teeth, and mane so shaggy,
      With your ears and tail so waggy,--

    "I will never, never tell.
      They may tie a ding-dong-bell
    To my little tail so waggy,
      Singe my ears and coat so shaggy.

    "They may drown me in the well,
      All because I will not tell."
    That will do, you grim old Quaker!
      I can trust you Pepper Baker.

                       MARY R. WHITTLESEY.

SILVER AND GOLD.

    Silver or golden, which is the best--
      Which with God's love is most richly blest?
    Which is the fairer I cannot tell,
      Grandfather dear or my baby Bel.

    The soft twilight hour, when shadows fall,
      To little Bel seems the best of all;
    Then grandfather lays aside his book;
      He cannot resist the pleading look.

    There's room for two in the great arm-chair;
      His arms enfold her with loving care;
    Upturned is a smiling, rosy face;
      Two dimpled arms have found their place.

    Sweet eyes of hazel, so clear and bright,
      Look up with a happy, loving light;
    The curls are golden that softly stray,
      While breezes amid their sunshine play.

    Little she dreams of sorrow and care;
      Life is unknown, and to her seems fair.
    As years roll by the face may grow old;
      But the loving heart will never grow cold.

    When the hand of Time on her head is laid,
      The lustre of gold must surely fade;
    But lovely is even a silver frost,
      If truth and goodness have not been lost.

    Pride and passion have left no trace
      On the old man's placid, saintly face;
    The journey so long is almost done--
      The strife is over, the victory won.

    The voice that speaks is gentle and deep;
      Surely it means God's grace to keep.
    Eyes like the heavens so darkly blue;
      Surely God's love is shining through.

    Forehead so noble, calm, and fair;
      Surely God's peace is resting there.
    The snowy locks are a silver crown;
      Softly the blessing of God came down.

                               ELLIS GRAY.

TWO MORNINGS.

    Step softly; the baby sleeps;
      Drop the curtains, and close the door;
    Baby sleeps, while mother weeps--
      Sleeps, never to waken more.

    Not a breath disturbs his repose;
      The blossom he wears has forgotten to blow.
    Once his two cheeks were red as a rose;
      Now they are lilies, you know.

    Morning will come, with its sweet surprise,
      Waken the flowers, and scatter the dew;
    But never again shall the baby's eyes
      Watch the sunbeams break through.

    Yet in heaven his morning is growing
      To fairer dawning than ours has known--
    A fountain of light forever flowing
      Forth from the great white throne.

TIM, THE MATCH BOY.

Tim had been standing for a long while gazing in at the confectioner's window. The evening
was drawing in, and ever since morning a thick, unbroken cloud had covered the narrow strips
of sky lying along the line of roofs on each side of the streets, while every now and then
there came down driving showers of rain, wetting him to the skin.

Not that it took much rain to wet Tim to the skin. The three pieces of clothing which formed
his dress were all in tatters. His shirt, which looked as if it never could have been whole
and white, had more than half the sleeves torn away, and fell open in front for want of a collar,
to say nothing of a button and button-hole. The old jacket he wore over it had never had any
sleeves at all, but consisted of a front of calf-skin, with all the hair worn away, and a back
made with the idea that it would be hidden from sight by a coat, of coarse yellow linen, now
fallen into lamentable holes. His trousers were fringed by long wear, and did not reach to
his ankles, which were blue with cold, and bare, like his feet, that had been splashing along
the muddy streets all day, until they were pretty nearly the same color as the pavement. His
head was covered only by his thick, matted hair, which protected him, far better than his ragged
clothes, from the rain and wind, and made him sometimes dimly envious of the dogs that were
so far better off, in point of covering, than himself. His hands were tucked, for warmth, in
the holes where his pockets should have been; but they had been worn out long ago, and now
he had not even accommodation for any little bit of string, or morsel of coal, he might come
across in the street.

It was by no means Tim's habit to stand and stare in at the windows of cake shops. Now and
then he glanced at them, and thought how very rich and happy those people must be who lived
upon such dainty food. But he was, generally, too busy in earning his own food--by selling
matches--to leave him much time for lingering about such tempting places. As for buying his
dinner, when he had one, he looked out for the dried-fish stalls, where he could get a slice
of brown fish ready cooked, and carry it off to some doorstep, where he could dine upon it
heartily and contentedly, provided no policeman interfered with his enjoyment.

But to-day the weather had been altogether too bad for any person to come out of doors, except
those who were bent on business; and they hurried along the muddy streets, too anxious to get
on quickly to pay any heed to Tim, trotting alongside of them with some damp boxes of matches
to sell. The rainy day was hard upon him. His last meal had been his supper the night before--a
crust his father had given him, about half as big as it should have been to satisfy him. When
he awoke in the morning, he had already a good appetite, and ever since, all the long day through,
from hour to hour, his hunger had been growing keener, until now it made him almost sick and
faint to stand and stare at the good things displayed in such abundance inside the shop window.

Tim had no idea of going in to beg. It was far too grand a place for that; and the customers
going in and out were mostly smart young maid-servants, who were far too fine for him to speak to.

There were bread shops nearer home, where he might have gone, being himself an occasional customer,
and asked if they could not find such a thing as an old crust to give him; but this shop was
a very different place from those. There was scarcely a thing he knew the name of. At the back
of the shop there were some loaves; but even those looked different from what he, and folks
like him, bought. His hungry, eager eyes gazed at them, and his teeth and mouth moved now and
then, unknown to himself, as if he was eating something ravenously; but he did not venture
to go in.

At last Tim gave a great start. A customer, whom he knew very well, was standing at the counter,
eating one of the dainty bunns. It could be no one else but his own teacher, who taught him
and seven and eight other ragged lads like himself, in a night school not far from his home.
His hunger had made him forgetful of it; but this was one of the evenings when the school was
open, and he had promised faithfully to be there to-night. At any rate, it would be a shelter
from the rain, which was beginning to fall steadily and heavily, now the sun was set; and it
was of no use thinking of going home, where he and his father had only a corner of a room,
and were not welcome to that if they turned in too soon of an evening. His teacher had finished
the bunn, and was having another wrapped up in a neat paper bag, which he put carefully into
his pocket, and then stepped out into the street, and walked along under the shelter of a good
umbrella, quite unaware that one of his scholars was pattering along noiselessly behind him
with bare feet.

All Tim's thoughts were fixed upon the bunn in his teacher's pocket. He wondered what it would
taste like, and whether it would be as delicious as that one he had once eaten, when all the
ragged school had a treat in Epping Grove--going down in vans, and having real country milk,
and slices of cake to eat, finishing up with a bunn, which seemed to him as if it must be like
the manna he had heard of at school, that used to come down from heaven every morning before
the sun was up. He had never forgotten that lesson; and scarcely a morning came that he did
not wish he had lived in those times.

The teacher turned down a dark, narrow street, where the rain had gathered in little pools
on the worn pavement, through which Tim splashed carelessly. They soon reached the school door;
and Tim watched him take off his great-coat, and hang it up on the nails set apart for the
teachers' coats.

Their desk was at a little distance; and he took his place at it among the other boys, but
his head ached, and his eyes felt dim, and there was a hungry gnawing within him, which made
it impossible to give his mind to learning his lessons, as he usually did. He felt so stupefied,
that the easiest words--words he knew as well as he knew the way to the Mansion House, where
he sold his matches--swam before his eyes, and he called them all wrongly. The other lads laughed
and jeered at him, and his teacher was displeased; but Tim could do no better. He could think
of nothing but the dainty bunn in the teacher's pocket.

At last the Scripture lesson came; and it was one that came home to Tim's state. And when the
day was now far spent, his disciples came unto him," etc. Read Mark vi. 34-44.

Tim listened with a swelling heart, and with a feeling of choking in his throat. He could see
it all plainly in his mind. It was like their treat in Epping Grove, where the classes had
sat down in ranks upon the green grass; and O, how green and soft the grass was! and the teachers
had come round, like the disciples, giving to each one of them a can of milk and great pieces
of cake; and they had sung a hymn all together before they began to eat and drink. Tim fancied
he could see our Saviour as once he had seen him in a beautiful picture, with his hands outstretched,
as if ready to give the children surrounding him anything they wanted, or to fold them every
one in his loving arms. He thought he saw Jesus, with his loving, gentle face, standing in
the midst of the great crowd of people, and asking the disciples if they were sure they had
all had enough. Then they would sing, thought Tim, and go home as happy as he had been after
that treat in Epping Grove. All at once his hunger became more than he could bear.

"O, I wish He was here!" he cried, bursting into tears, and laying his rough head on the desk
before him. "I only wish He was here."

The other lads looked astonished; for Tim was not given to crying; and the teacher stopped
in his reading, and touched him to call his attention.

"Who do you wish was here, Tim?" he asked.

"Him," sobbed the hungry boy; "the Lord Jesus. He'd know how bad I feel. I'd look him in the
face, and say, 'Master, what are I to do? I can't learn nothink when I've got nothink but a
griping inside of me.' And he'd think how hungry I was, having nothink to eat all day. He'd
be very sorry--he would, I know."

Tim did not lift up his head; for his tears and sobs were coming too fast, and he was afraid
the other lads would laugh at him. But they looked serious enough as the meaning of his words
broke upon them. They were sure he was not cheating them. If Tim said he had had nothing to
eat all day, it must be true; for he never grumbled, and he always spoke the truth. One boy
drew a carrot out of his pocket, and another pulled out a good piece of bread, wrapped in a
bit of newspaper, while a third ran off to fetch a cup of water, having nothing else he could
give to Tim. The teacher walked away to where his coat was hanging, and came back with the
bunn which he had bought in the shop.

"Tim," he said, laying his hand kindly on the lad's bowed-down head, "I am very sorry for you;
but none of us knew you were starving, my boy, or I should not have scolded you, and the lads
would not have laughed at you. Look up, and see what a supper we have found for you."

It looked like a feast to Tim. One of the boys lent him a pocket knife to cut the bread and
carrot into slices, with which he took off the keen edge of his hunger; and then he ate the
dainty bunn, which seemed to him more delicious than anything he had ever tasted before. The
rest of the class looked on with delight at his evident enjoyment, until the last crumb had
disappeared.

"I could learn anything now," said Tim, with a bright face; "but I couldn't understand nothink
before. Then you began telling about the poor folks being famished with hunger, and how Jesus
gave them bread and fishes, just as if he'd been hungry himself some time, and knew all about
it. It is bad, it is. And it seemed such a pity he weren't here in the city, and I couldn't
go to him. But, I dessay, he knows how you've all treated me, and I thank you all kindly; and
I'll do the same by you some day, when you've had the same bad luck as me."

"Yes," said the teacher, "Jesus knew how hungry you were; and he knew how to send you the food
you wanted.

ENVY PUNISHED.

A Burmese potter, it is said, became envious of the prosperity of a washerman, and to ruin
him, induced the king to order him to wash one of his black elephants white, that he might
be "lord of the white elephant," which in the East is a great distinction.

The washerman replied that, by the rules of his art, he must have a vessel large enough to
wash him in.

The king ordered the potter to make him such a vessel. When made, it was crushed by the first
step of the elephant in it. Many times was this repeated; and the potter was ruined by the
very scheme he had intended should crush his enemy.

WINGS.

"If I only had wings like you!" said Addie Lewis, speaking to her pet bird as she opened the
cage door.

"Chirp, chirp!" answered the bird, flying out and resting on Addie's finger.

"Ah, birdie, if I only had your wings!"

"Wings!" spoke out Addie's mother. "You have wings," she said, in a quiet way.

Addie looked at her shoulders, and then at her mother's. "I don't see them," she said, with
a little amused laugh.

"We are using them all the while," said Mrs. Lewis. "Did you never hear of the wings of thought?"

"Oh! That's what you mean? Our thoughts are our wings?"

"Yes; and our minds can fly with these wings higher and farther than any bird can go. If I
read to you about a volcano in Italy, off you go on the wings of thought and look down into
the fiery crater. If I tell you of the frozen North, you are there in an instant, gazing upon
icy seas and the wonders of a desolate region. The wings of an eagle are not half so swift
and strong as the wings of your thought. The very king of birds would perish in regions where
they can take you in safety."

[Decoration]

SQUANKO.

"What a name for a dog, auntie!"

"Name! Why, Frank, when you hear the whole, like the Queen of Sheba, you'll say the half has
not been told you."

"Why, didn't you find Squanko quite enough for one dog?"

"His full name," said my aunt, loftily, "is Squanko Guy Edgerly Patterson."

She rolled out these resonant titles with due gravity, and Squanko, turning his bright eyes
from one to the other, solemnly wagged his tail, as if to signify approval.

I was a New Hampshire boy, and this was my first visit to the city. My experience with dogs
previously had been that of a country boy bred up among sportsmen. I had known several highly-trained
hounds, and famous bird dogs, though my ideal of canine perfection was that marvel of sagacity,
the shepherd dog. Still, my first love among dogs had been a noble old hound, who, though sightless
from age, would follow a rabbit better than any young dog was capable of doing. The scent of
powder brought back his lost youth. Let him hear the loading of a gun,--or the mere rattle
of a shot-pouch was enough,--he would break out into the wildest gambols, dashing hither and
yon, in an ecstasy of delight.

Running headlong against rock or tree, as he was liable to do, only tempered his zeal for a
moment; the next, he was tearing along more madly than ever. Dear old Trim! I had shed a boy's
hot tears over his grave on the hill-side, and I was not ashamed of it either.

I felt a tenderness for Squanko. The yellow spots which marked his white fur reminded me of
Trim's. Remembering the accomplishments of my lost favorite, I ventured another question.

"What is he good for, aunt Patterson? Can he hunt?"

"Good for!" ejaculated my aunt--"good for! I couldn't keep house without him." A certain fine
disdain curled her lip; she had utterly ignored my second question. Completely quenched, I
was fain to accept Squanko at once, hunter or no hunter.

And we were, on the whole, pretty good friends, in spite of the battles we fought, nearly every
evening, for the possession of the lounge. It made small difference to Squanko if I was beforehand
with him. Though quite a large dog, he would creep up behind me, slowly insinuating himself
between me and the back of the lounge. Then, watching his opportunity, he would brace his feet
suddenly, and more than once the execution of this manoeuvre sent me rolling, ignominiously,
upon the floor.

The intruder ousted, his majesty would settle himself for a nap, not heeding in the least the
shouts of laughter which his triumph never failed to evoke.

On all occasions (excepting only nights, when he slept tranquilly on a rug in my aunt's room)
he felt it his duty to keep watch and ward over the premises. His favorite perch, in sunny
mornings, was in the window of my aunt's chamber. If by any chance the white curtain had not
been looped up, as usual, leaving the window sill exposed, Squanko went down for help, and
by whining, pulling his mistress's dress and similar arts, persuaded her to go up and remove
the obnoxious curtain. Carefully seating himself upon the sill, which was all too narrow for
his portly figure, he would fall to work, by barking furiously at every person--man, woman,
or child--who presumed to pass up or down the street. Most fortunately for him, the window
he occupied overlooked the lawn at the side of the house, instead of the pavement in front;
for on several occasions his fury became so ungovernable, that he barked himself sheer off
his foundation.

Catching a glimpse of his whirling figure, my aunt rushed out, armed with a bottle of liniment;
and while she bathed his imperilled legs, she strove also to soothe his outraged feelings.
For the time all vanity seemed to have been dashed out of him; but comforted by sympathy and
caresses, he again mounted his perch, and barked with undiminished ardor.

At table, my aunt always occupied what is termed an office chair. Being quite small in person,
a portion of the great leather cushion, at the back, was left vacant. Squanko rarely failed
to possess himself of this vantage-ground, and squatting thereon, peered wisely over his mistress's
shoulder, as if studying the problem of what portion of the goodly meal before him might safely
be counted on as a remainder.

Yet Squanko had his grievances. One was, not being allowed the freedom of the garden. If he
went out, my aunt's careful hand hastened to link the long chain, attached to his house, to
his collar. She had a chronic fear of his running away.

Squanko utterly disdained to occupy the bed of straw which graced his dwelling, but climbing
to a board which surmounted the ridge of the roof, would lie upon that narrow ledge, ready
to pounce upon any one who ventured near.

Missing him one morning, both here and on the window-sill, one of the wee Johnnys of the neighborhood,
who stood in wholesome awe of Squanko, put his curly head in at the doorway.

"Where's Squanko, Mrs. Patterson?"

"Gone to walk."

"Gone to walk," chuckled Johnny, bursting with merriment. "That's funny--a dog gone to walk!"

Squanko's walk was rarely omitted; generally it was performed under my aunt's tutelage, when
she went a little way with her husband, whose business took him to the city every morning.
If, for any reason, Mrs. Patterson let her husband go to the cars alone, she sent Squanko off
by himself, with strict orders to return speedily, which direction he had never failed to obey.

Besides his chain, Squanko had one other trial to endure--a thorough ablution once a week.
Bathing was his aversion; still, he had been obliged to submit to it from his puppyhood, and
Mrs. Patterson was inexorable. A dog who was not faultlessly clean could have no place in the
arrangements of her household. In and about her dwelling all was spotlessly neat. Everything
susceptible of polish shone, from the window-panes, and the great cooking-stove, to Squanko's
white coat. In vain were his protests, his indignant snorts and sneezes, his incipient growls;
into the tub of warm water he had to go, while the scrubbing-brush performed its office upon
his fat sides. Having been duly washed and wiped, he always indulged in a vicious shake or
two, producing a sort of mist in his immediate vicinity. After being wrapped in his own blanket
shawl, he was placed on the lounge, to repose while drying. His luxurious nap completed, he
would emerge from his retirement, his short white hair shining like satin,--as clean a playfellow
as one might desire. His temper,--not usually of the best,--after one of these baths, would
remain sunny for hours.

But Squanko--like many another spoiled darling,--was not content with the home where he was
so petted and indulged.

As his master opened the door to go into the garden, one evening, Squanko rushed past him,
and made for the street. In vain our hurried search, up and down, in the dark spring night.
In vain his mistress's frantic calls. If Squanko was hidden in some nook hard by, and heard
her entreaties, his heart must have been harder than a stone. That hasty exit was the last
we ever saw of him. Night after night my uncle, coming home from the city, inquired for Squanko,
only to receive the sad reply,--

"No, Roy! We never--never shall see Squanko again."

Soon a fat, brindled puppy was installed in the vacant place. Day by day he grew, both in bulk
and in the affections of the family. My aunt named him "Trouble." All the devotion which had
been Squanko's was straightway lavished on him.

When, in process of time, the tidings were borne to my aunt's ears, that Squanko, forgetful
of former friends, was leading a jolly existence in a neighboring town, she only replied, with
a toss of her head, "Let the ungrateful imp stay there. Trouble is worth a dozen of him!"

                                               F. CHESEBORO.

[Decoration]

"THE SWEET ONE FOR POLLY."

                                           LOUISA M. ALCOTT.

[Decoration]

THE ACCIDENT.

                                           LOUISA M. ALCOTT.

[Decoration]

[Decoration]

POLLY ARRIVES.

"Yes.

                                           LOUISA M. ALCOTT.

KINDNESS TO ANIMALS.

Last month a gentleman related an incident in his early life, showing how kindness to the brute
creation makes them entirely subservient to our will. Similar experience is familiar to every
one of us. This volume would not begin to contain the proofs which come under notice every
day of our lives. Your dog or your cat understands your disposition as well as your brother
or your sister. Give them a kick as you pass by, pull their ears or tail whenever you get an
opportunity, and they will shun you as they would the plague. On the other hand, speak a kind
word to them, give them a morsel of food, or fondle them kindly, and they will soon treat you
as a friend.

I have a cat who waits for my coming home every night as regularly as the sun. And if, perchance,
I do not come at my usual time in the train, she shows her disappointment by mewing. She will
roll over as obediently as you ever saw a dog, at the word of command. After supper, when I
put on my slippers and take the evening paper, puss takes possession of my lap, and then she
seems contented and happy.

Kindness did all this--nothing else. Any cat can be taught to "roll over" in a week's time.
Any cat will be your friend, and love you, if you will treat her well.

It is precisely thus with wild animals. They know who their friends are as well as you know
yours. They don't need to be told. There is no end of stories about the elephant, the horse,
the dog; about their docility, and the affection they have for those who treat them kindly.
Even the lion, when brought under the dominion of man, becomes strongly attached to those who
treat him with kindness. An instance of this is related of one that was kept in the menagerie
of the Tower of London. He had been brought from India, and on the passage was given in charge
to one of the sailors. Long before the ship arrived at London, the lion and Jack had become
excellent friends. When Nero--as the lion was called--was shut up in his cage in the Tower,
he became sulky and savage to such an extent that it was dangerous even for his keeper, who
was not over kind to him, to approach him.

After Nero had been a prisoner for some weeks, a party of sailors, Jack being among the number,
paid a visit to the menagerie. The keeper warned them not to go near the lion, who every now
and then turned round to growl defiance to the spectators.

"What! old shipmate!" cried Jack, "don't you know me? What cheer, old Nero, my lad?"

Instantly the lion left off growling, sprang up to the bars of his cage, and put his nose between
them. Jack patted it on the head, and it rubbed his hand with its whiskers like a cat, showing
evident signs of pleasure.

"Ah," said Jack, turning to the keeper and spectators who stood looking on with astonishment,
"Nero and I were shipmates, and you see he isn't like some folks; he don't forget an old friend."

But here's a story of another sort. Some weeks ago a caravan was exhibiting in Illinois. Among
the animals was an elephant, to whom a mischievous boy had given an apple with tobacco concealed
inside. As soon as the animal discovered the trick, the boy began to laugh at the joke which
he had played on the creature. The elephant, however, looked angry, and the keeper, having
heard of the affair, told the boy to keep out of his reach, unless he wanted to be hurt.

But, although the lad did not come so near that the elephant could get hold of him, he hung
round in the vicinity. Presently a pail of water was brought for the elephant to drink. The
insulted creature filled his trunk as full as he could, and seeing a good opportunity, blew
the whole of it upon the boy who had given him tobacco, wetting him from head to foot. Verdict
of the spectators, and of the readers of this book, "Served him right."

                                               ROBERT HANDY.

ALL AMONG THE HAY.

    All among the buttercups,
      All among the hay!
    Oh that spring would come again,
      With its merry May!

    Hasten summer's pleasant days,
      Summer's pleasant hours;
    Send us back the butterflies
      And the pretty flowers.

    Yes, bright days will come again,
      Winter soon will go,
    And the smiling sun shall melt
      All this dreary snow.

    Then beside the flowing stream
      Merrily we'll play,
    All among the buttercups,
      All among the hay.

THE MOUSE AND CANARY.

A lady, having gone rather early into an apartment in which she had a fine canary, whose cage
hung on the knob of the window-shutter, was much surprised to find the bird sitting asleep
in the bottom of the cage, side by side with a live mouse, also asleep. On raising the window-blind,
the mouse squeezed itself through between the wires of the cage and fled. The box of seeds,
crumbs, etc., intended for the canary was found to be cleaned out, doubtless devoured by the
strange companion. On the following evening, while the lady and her husband were sitting quietly
by the fireside, they were still further astonished at seeing a mouse (no doubt the same one)
climbing nimbly up the shutter and entering the cage between the wires. Thinking it might do
harm to the bird, they tried to catch the mouse, but it made its escape as before. The cage
was then suspended from a nail, so that the mouse could not gain access. Strange to say, however,
on the following morning the canary was found asleep on the floor of the room (the cage door
having been left open), and a piece of potato beside him. Most likely the mouse had spent the
whole of the night there.

[Decoration]

THE TWO FRIENDS.

A STORY FOR BOYS.

Many years ago two youths, whom we will call only by their Christian names,--Walter and Sidney,--were
at the same boarding-school, at Mount's Bay, in Cornwall. They were each the sons of captains
in the merchant service; but though they were equals in station, there was a great difference
in their circumstances, for Walter inherited considerable property. Sidney's father had not
been a prosperous man, and it was as much as he could do to give his boy a good education.

Among the whole school there were no two lads so closely knit in friendship as Walter and Sidney;
they were within a week of the same age (thirteen) at the time our narrative begins. It is
always a pleasant sight, and also a good example, when two intelligent, kind-hearted boys become
friends. They show to others what a disinterested and noble thing true friendship is. Thus,
in their lessons and their sports, these boys were helpful to each other. They shared together
every indulgence that the kindness of friends procured them, and if any added study were imposed,
Sidney, who learned easily, would, after he had swiftly mastered his own lesson, take upon
himself both the office of teacher and companion, and never rest until Walter was as well up
in the task as he himself was. Most certainly the punishment of one was ever the punishment
of both, for, if they were sharers in each other's joys, they were not the less so in their
troubles. Perhaps the vigilance which each exercised over the other was the reason why they
were comparatively seldom in any very serious disgrace, and their characters stood high in
the school, both with masters and pupils.

But while in the little world within the walls of the school all went equally well with the
youthful friends, in the great world outside, heavy troubles came to Sidney's father. The vessel
he commanded was lost near the mouth of the River Mersey, and though the crew were saved, yet
it was judged that some mismanagement caused the disaster, and Sidney's father lost his certificate,
and no owners would again trust him to command a vessel. The poor man took this so much to
heart that he fell into a bad state of health, and declined so rapidly, that the week after
Sidney received from Liverpool the first intimation of his father's illness, tidings came that
he was dead.

It was in the autumnal quarter, about eight weeks before Christmas, that the sad letter was
received which told Sidney he was now an orphan. The only aunt the poor boy had, his father's
sister, wrote the account, and she was obliged to add the painful fact that, with the loss
of his father, Sidney would lose the means of further education, and must look forward to some
humble means of earning his daily bread, with as little delay as possible.

In his first great grief at hearing of his father's death, all else seemed trivial. Change
of circumstances, hard work, any trouble, would have been as nothing if his father had been
spared to him. But after the first shock of his sorrow, Sidney admitted that he must leave
school; that it would not be honest, either to his aunt or his schoolmaster, to remain. Strangely
enough, the very week in which this trouble came to Sidney, his friend Walter was at home for
a few days, joining in the celebration of his father's fiftieth birthday. He had wanted Sidney
to have a holiday also; but the latter, being already aware of his father's reverses and illness,
though having no fear of any greater grief impending over him, had declined his friend's kind
invitation. So it happened that, while a happy jubilee was being celebrated in Walter's home,
Sidney was suddenly made a poor orphan.

Never, during the three years that they had been school-fellows, had the countenances of the
two boys showed such a contrast of expression as when they met in the playground a few minutes
after Walter had alighted at the gate, on his return from the pleasant sojourn at his home.
He was flushed with health and happiness, and ran up, with a boyish shout of mirth, to greet
his friend. Poor Sidney, pale and choking with the effort to restrain his tears, could only
grasp the proffered hand in silence, and turn away his head, unable to look up,--almost unable
to bear the pent-up grief that throbbed at his heart, and tightened his chest with a sense
of suffocation.

"Why, Sid, what's this? Dear old fellow, what's the matter?" was Walter's astonished inquiry,
when a boy near whispered in his ear the brief words,--

"His father's dead!"

That explained all; and Walter, twining his arm round his friend, led him away to a quiet spot,
where they could weep together. The greater grief so completely absorbed Sidney on his first
meeting with Walter, that it was not until the next day that any mention was made between them
of how this bereavement would affect the future. Young and prosperous as Walter was, he knew
well enough how sad it would be for his friend to lose the advantages of education just at
the time when his studies would be needed to fit him for some pursuit in life.

Meanwhile, as Sidney's aunt had not been able to send the money for the poor lad to go so long
a journey as from West Cornwall to Liverpool, to attend his father's funeral, there was no
immediate hurry at the school in preparing for the youth's departure. Walter, therefore, had
time to carry out a plan which his affection suggested. He wrote an urgent letter to his father,
filled with praises of Sidney, and accounts of all the help which his cleverness and conduct
had afforded to him (Walter), and earnestly pleading that he might have the gratification of
paying for a year or more schooling for his orphan friend, adding, as a concluding argument,--

"You know, papa, that I have forty pounds that aunt Margaret put in the savings bank for me,
to do as I like with; and how could I spend it better, or so well, as in helping a good clever
fellow like Sidney? It would be a real treat to me--the best I could have; and you promised
to increase my pocket-money: you needn't; I can screw myself down famously, if you'll only
give it to help Sid, who's always been helping me, I can tell you."

Walter was too earnest, it seemed, to pick and choose his words. He meant to have corrected
and rewritten his letter, but there was no time; so he sent it, faults and all. And his father,
in reading it, felt the heart-throb that beat in his boy's generous words; and though a man
not at all demonstrative, he was observed to be taken as if with a sudden cold in his head,
to judge by the vigorous use of his pocket handkerchief; but all he said was conveyed in a
single nautical phrase,--"The youngster is on the right tack."

The day after, the principal of the Mount's Bay School received an intimation that Sidney was
to continue his studies there as long as he proved diligent; but the name of his patron was
not to be told him. So, to the lad's great satisfaction, he was informed that a friend who
had known his father would, for the present, help him. Walter knew the truth, but though he
felt the intense joy that a good action always yields to the doer even more than to the receiver,
he was careful to obey his father, and keep the secret.

If Sidney was studious before, he redoubled his diligence now, and in the year made such great
progress, that a Dutch gentleman, who visited the school, offered him a situation in his office
at Rotterdam; and as Sidney knew that a residence abroad would be a great improvement to him,
and also was eager to enter upon some mode of earning his own living, he wished earnestly to
take the offer. At no time during their now four years of mutual school-life and friendship
would Walter have heard with patience of Sidney leaving. But a parting now came.

Walter's father had become an invalid, and was ordered to a warmer climate. The family removed
to Florence, in Italy, and, of course, Walter went with them; his greatest grief being that
Sidney could not accompany them.

With the keenest pangs of youthful sorrow, the two friends parted, promising to write often,
looking forward to meet at no distant future, for the world did not seem too wide for them,
accustomed as they were, by association, to maritime people and travellers.

It was three months after Walter had left, when Sidney took leave of his kind master, and the
school which had been a home to him, and went, in cold spring weather, to the Venice of the
north--Rotterdam. When he left he made one request, which his tutor thought it not wrong to
grant. He desired to know the name of the benefactor who had so munificently helped him; and
though he was not very much surprised when he heard the source from whence the aid had come,
and was indeed glad that his gratitude was due where his friendship had so long been given,
yet it naturally moved him very deeply when he found how Walter had been the means of effecting
this. He also remembered vividly some acts of self-denial that added to the delicacy of his
friend's silence, and made the action truly noble.

"I can never repay you, dear Walter, nor your kind father; I shall ever be your grateful debtor,"
he wrote; "but I will try to employ the talents you have cultivated, so as not, at all events,
to disgrace your friendship."

Though railways made the continent open to travellers, and the desire to see his friend Walter
never languished, yet years went by and it was not realized. Some tidings there were of reverse
of fortune through a lawsuit, and of journeyings to different places. The last that Sidney
heard of his friend was in a letter from Madeira, where his father was lingering on in too
weak a state to bear removal.

The desultory, unsettled life that the family had led seemed to have prevented Walter from
making much progress as a sculptor,--a profession he had thought of while in Italy,--and his
letters were somewhat vague and unsatisfactory as to his future plans.

Then came a long interval with no tidings, and afterwards a returned letter with the one word
DEAD, written under the name of Walter's father on the superscription.

So, like a pleasant morning that ends in clouds and gloom, the friendship seemed to end which
had so gladdened the youth of Sidney, and even blended with all the fondest memories of his
boyhood. Many were the prayers he breathed, that one who had been as a brother might not be
entirely lost to him.

As years went on great changes occurred in the firm that Sidney served. He had risen in the
confidence of his employers. They had a business in Australia, under the care of a partner,
who was also a relative. He died, and as there was a sudden increase of business facilities
at Melbourne, Sidney was sent out, and a share in the concern was given him. His surname did
not appear. He was announced, as many a junior partner is, by the little word "Co." appended
to the principal name of the firm.

Sidney had been in the colony some three years, and was now a stalwart young man of twenty-seven,
when one day, riding on horseback towards a suburb of the rapidly growing city of Melbourne,
called Brighton, he noticed a gang of young men working on the road. He knew that many respectable
emigrants had come over during the first excitement of the gold discoveries. Clerks used only
to the pen, students, unsuccessful professional men, all in the first delirium fever-fit of
the gold fever, had come in the expectation that hands unused to hard toil could use the pickaxe
of the gold-digger, or wash the rubble for the precious ore. Ah, it was a wild, a fatal delusion!
Many a gentleman and scholar pined to death with hardships and disappointments, while some,
after weeks of sickness, rose to earn their bread by the humblest manual labor. Working on
the roads, for which government pay was given, was often the resource of those who had been
worsted in every other effort. Unable to help among such numbers of claimants on sympathy,
Sidney had contented himself with joining in the subscriptions raised for the relief of the
sick and destitute: but now, as he passed along, he felt a desire to speak to the workers in
this gang. As his eye scanned them he saw only a group of thin, toil-worn, weather-beaten men,
with rough beards half hiding their wasted features. Nothing was more acceptable, as a recreation
to the emigrants, than books, and Sidney had commenced a lending library of books and publications;
so, after a cheerful salutation, he now reined up his horse, and began to tell them of his
plan, and to add, "I have opened a room, friends, two nights a week,--it is but a rough shed,
but I hope to make it better soon,--as a meeting-place, where a comfortable, pleasant, and
profitable evening may be spent."

"Then," said a man with a strong Irish brogue, "your honor's the great Dutch merchant."

"Yes, at the Dutch merchant's store; but I am English; my name is Sidney--"

There was a wild panting sort of cry, and a man in the group fell to the ground.

"He's in a fit." "He oughtn't to have come." "Poor fellow!" "Fetch water!" "Give him air!"
These were the cries that were uttered. Meanwhile, throwing his horse's bridle over a post,
Sidney dismounted, and helped to lift in his strong arms the tall but wasted form of a man
from the ground. He was borne to a bank at the side of the road. Sidney put aside the matted
hair that fell over his brow, and taking the pannikin, which some one had filled with water,
he put it to his lips, wholly unconscious that he had ever seen that face before, until the
eyes slowly opened, and the old expression, the soul-gaze, shone in them, and the hoarse and
altered voice, yet with tones that woke old echoes, said, "Sidney! Dear friend! Don't--don't
you know me--Walter?"

Walter! Yes it was he. The once blooming, prosperous, happy boy was this wasted, worn skeleton
of a man. O, the tide of feeling that rushed through Sidney's every vein, as he recognized
his early friend--his benefactor! To raise him up, put him on his own horse, lead him gently
to his own home, and, once there, to send for the best medical skill, and tend him through
the illness that supervened, with a tenderness feminine in its thoughtful gentleness, was Sidney's
privilege.

In the intervals of his illness Walter related that his father had died at Madeira; that, hoping
to obtain a settlement of some claims, he had visited America; that, waiting to have better
news of himself to communicate, he put off writing from time to time; that he had gone with
a company of adventurous young men to California, and there, instead of finding gold, spent
all his means. Hoping to retrieve his position, he had come to Australia, and there his lot,
though hard, was only that of hundreds, in the first trying time of mad excitement and wild
adventure. "And I must get to work again. I'm not going to be here idle much longer," he said,
at the conclusion of a conversation on the past.

"As to work, I've plenty for you to do."

"I can't continue to be a burden on you, Sid. I've no claim."

"You've every claim. As to burdens, you remind me how long I was a burden on you and your father.
Once for all, I say, the help you gave me fitted me to get my living, and, by God's blessing,
to make my way in life. Share with me in my business."

Walter was beginning to interrupt; but Sidney, raising his hand, deprecatingly, said,--

"You have still the advantage over me, that you gave me help when I had done nothing to deserve
it of you. I only make a small repayment--a mere instalment of a great debt. Dear Walter, my
good fellow, let there be no contest between us. Are we not friends? Does that not mean helpers?"

And so it was. The tie, never broken, was knit again yet more closely. Brothers in friendship,
they ultimately became so in relationship; for as soon as Walter had a home, he invited a sister
to share it with him, and she, in a few months after her arrival, became the wife of Sidney.
And so the bond of brotherhood prospered, for many years.

PUSS.

Is it not a little more than surprising that the common domestic cat, an animal which we are
better acquainted with than the dog, should be permitted to grow up with so little instruction?
I think so. Almost every dog has some tricks; many dogs have a great number. Yet how rarely
do you see a cat of which anything more is expected than that she shall purr when she is petted,
play with your ball of yarn, or growl when you give her a nice dinner.

You teach your dog to bark at the word of command, to roll over, to stand upon his hind feet,
and hold up his paws, to jump through a small hoop, to sing, and a thousand other pretty tricks;
but why do you neglect your cat? You can teach her all these things,--except to bark,--and
quite as easily. Any cat, not more than a year old, can be taught, in less than fifteen days,
to "roll over;" and she learns other capers quite as freely. Bear in mind that to do this you
have to appeal to the creature's love of food. That is her nature. She cares nothing for you;
it is the dinner she is after. So, when you desire to teach puss to turn over, take her when
she is hungry. Put your hand upon her back, and turn her over; and then give her a small bit
of meat. Gradually she will require less and less force. She will understand what you want,
and know what must be done in order to be served. Never disappoint her, but let the food immediately
follow obedience. Other tricks may be taught in the same way. If you wish to teach her to go
through a hoop, you will be obliged at first to take her up bodily, and put her through. But
this will not be for a great while. She will soon understand what you desire.

I once had a cat which would open any door in the house. She learned herself! The latch-doors
came pretty easy, but the knobs bothered her a good deal. She persevered, however, and became
an expert at either.

I have a cat now--a Maltese--which is a marvel of intelligence. There seems to be no end to
her interesting feats. She is terribly rough at play; if you impose upon her, you must look
out for her claws. She watches for my coming from the city quite regularly; and as soon as
I sit down to read, she plants herself in my lap. She had some kittens a few weeks ago. One
evening, soon after, as I sat in the rocking-chair, with my newspaper, puss came into the room
with one of her kittens in her mouth. She placed it carefully in my lap, and immediately went
for the other one.

A neighbor of mine has a cat which rings a bell when she is hungry. The bell is a small one,
and hangs about a yard high, so that Miss Puss has to exert herself to reach it.

Another cat I heard of recently seems to have discovered a way to get into the warm kitchen
whenever she is accidentally shut out in the cold.

At the side wall of the house there is a small aperture, of about two feet square, opening
into the kitchen, and intended for the use and convenience of butchers, bakers, or grocers,
who would otherwise have to go round to the back entrance; inside of this aperture is suspended
a bell, which Miss Muffy must, no doubt, have often seen used by butchers, bakers, and grocers,
to call the attention of cook. She has, therefore, adopted the same plan; and when tired of
her prowlings about the garden, or hunting for birds in the adjoining wood, she springs up
to the little door, and, with her paw or head, keeps ring, ring, ringing at the bell until
the door is opened, and she gets admission.

Muffy is not only a very intelligent little cat, but I can tell you she is also a very good-natured
one, too. She submits to being dressed in the doll's clothes, and will sometimes lie quite
still in the cradle for hours together, and when told to stand upon her hind legs and give
a kiss, does so with a gracefulness hitherto unknown in the annals of cats.

These funny marks of intelligence in dumb creatures are quite interesting. As you grow older,
you will spend many an hour in trying to discover where the dividing line between INSTINCT
and REASON is. It is SOMEWHERE. If you hatch some chickens by heat, miles away from any other
fowls, the hens will cackle, and the cocks will crow, all the same, although no one has taught
them. Why is it?

If you could hatch a robin's egg in the same way, far removed from other birds, the bird would,
when grown, build its nest precisely as other robins do, and of the same material, although
it never saw a pattern in the world. INSTINCT, or, if you prefer, NATURE, teaches all this.
But it is not REASON, as you will know as you grow older.

Just exactly so it is the instinct of a dog or a cat to obey you whenever you require it. Take
notice that you can never teach a dumb creature by observation. One cat will never learn to
turn over by observing that another one gets its food thereby.

But I will not try to mix you up in this discussion now. You will reach it soon enough if you
live. And when you reach it, you will find a very difficult, as well as a very interesting
question to solve.

                                               ROBERT HANDY.

HOLIDAY LUCK.

"Mother, mother!" with a prolonged er.

"Mary, where's mother?" and the children raced through the house, looking into every room on
the way.

"Here, Willie; what do you want?"

"O, mother, we are to have a holiday. Miss Mortimer has gone home."

"Isn't it fun!" cried Ada, swinging on her mother's arm.

"That depends upon how you spend it," Mrs. Constant replied.

"Why, a holiday means to have fun, and do just what you please," asserted Willie.

"And not get any lessons," said Dolly, snipping the tape with her mother's scissors.

Mrs. Constant took them from her, and smiled on the excited three.

"I hope you will have a pleasant day, and try to be good."

"Not too good, mother," expostulated Willie.

"No, only don't get into mischief."

"What shall we do first?" asked Ada.

"I don't know," replied Dolly. "Isn't it fun to have one whole day which is not Christmas or
Thanksgiving?"

For a short time the children remained in Mrs. Constant's room, upsetting her baskets, tangling
her silk, and plying her with numberless questions.

"I think you had better take a run in the garden," she finally said. "You are so restless and
full of holiday, I think the fresh air would relieve you."

"What a dear mother!" they cried; and having tumultuously kissed her, they repaired to the garden.

They lived in a country town, and had a large plot of ground at the back of the house, through
the farther end of which flowed a brook. Each one had his garden bed, and at one side was a
summer-house, where they kept their garden tools and many of their playthings, also a pet rabbit,
named Blackhawk. It was too late in the fall for flowers, only a few sturdy asters and hardy
verbenas being in blossom, and they played tag, hide-and-seek, and chased each other with handfuls
of dead leaves. While they were thus occupied, their mother called them, and told them that
aunt Clara had sent for her to come and spend the day; she had sprained her ankle, and wanted
some one to sit with her.

"Won't you be home to dinner?" they asked in despairing chorus.

"No; but Mary will take care of you, and you can enjoy yourselves; but don't do foolish things,
or your holiday will be spoiled. Now, you must all be mother to each other, that I may find
you well and happy when I come home."

For a while after she had gone, they amused themselves being mother to one another; but Willie
made such a failure that they gave it up.

"Let us play with the dolls a little while," suggested Dolly.

The proposition met with favor, and they went to the summer-house. Ada had a large family of
paper dolls, and Dolly of wooden ones. They played tea party, and dinner, and visiting; but
Willie could not forget that they had a holiday, and he longed to do something unusual.

"You have too many girls, Ada," he cried. "Let us play China, and burn some up."

A funeral pyre was soon constructed with splinters of wood, Dolly ran to the kitchen for matches,
and Willie turned his jacket inside out, tied Ada's sack about his neck by the sleeves, put
the watering-pot on his head, and was ready to personate the priest. Ada selected four victims,
who were securely bound with thirty cotton, and laid on the pile.

"Let us have Blackhawk for the idol," cried Ada.

Blackhawk was brought forth, a string of colored beads put about his neck, and he was bolstered
up in the arm-chair of the Princess Widdlesbee, Dolly's largest doll. But when the match was
struck and applied with a great flourish, he sprang from his throne, and fled to the farthest
corner.

"The god is displeased; the sacrifice must cease," cried Ada, who began to feel remorse as
her dolls crisped and turned to ashes.

"No," shouted Willie, "I am the priest; I know he means burn all;" and seizing a brand, he
applied it to Dolly's village, which stood near by. For a moment it was fun to see the flames
bursting from the roofs of houses, and lapping about the fences; but Dolly soon gave a cry
of dismay.

"Susanna and Posy are in the church; I don't want them burned."

"To the rescue!" shouted the heathen priest, snatching the pot from his head, and running to
fill it with water.

But Dolly could not wait, and had already burned a hole in her apron, and singed her hair,
trying to save her favorites. Blackhawk cowered in the corner, stamping his hind feet, while
Ada was pulling apart the pyre on which her dolls had perished.

"O, Willie, the floor is burned. Hurry, hurry!" cried Dolly.

Willie ran, deluged the burning village, and Dolly seized Susanna and Posy, free from damage,
with the exception of Posy's legs, which were so long, they lay outside the church door, and
were burned off. When they cleared away the ruins, there was a round, black spot on the floor,
where the village had stood, and the children's hands and clothes were wet and grimy.

"Do you think mother will care?" asked Dolly, after they had looked solemnly at one another.

"I don't believe she will as long as we did not burn any more," replied Willie, stepping back
on the rest of the matches.

They were explosive, and lighted with a snap that made him jump. When he saw what he had done,
he turned the watering-pot over them, and put his foot on it.

"Now they are safe," he cried. "Let us bury the pieces of the village."

"No," said Ada. "After I get a carrot for Blackhawk, let us make a raft of some of them, and
put the rest on, and let them float away on the brook."

This was speedily done, and when the little craft had passed the boundaries of their garden,
Willie proposed they should build a dam, and some time he would put up a mill. They were hardly
fairly at work when Mary called them to dinner.

Willie took the head of the table, and was rather offended that Mary did not let him cut the meat.

"At any rate, I'll help the pie," he declared.

Mary prudently cut the pieces before she put it on, and while they were eating it, Willie very
grandly said,--

"You may go now, Mary."

His mother usually dismissed her at dessert, and Willie wished to have all the privileges of
the place he occupied. Mary retired with a smile, and when the first pieces of pie were disposed
of, Willie offered the girls a second. It was mince pie, very nice and tempting; and though
Ada knew a second piece was not generally allowed, she thought a holiday might make a difference.
Dolly was busy feeding Prig,--a brisk Scotch terrier, with large, bright eyes, stiff, rough
hair, and a tail about two inches long,--and refused.

After dinner they returned to their dam, Ada and Dolly bringing the material, and Willie building.
But Dolly became dissatisfied, and insisted on being allowed to work in the water, while Ada
deserted altogether, and played with Blackhawk, whom they had let out.

"Dolly," cried Willie, "won't you go to my room and get my hammer? and be quick, for I've got
to hold this while you are gone."

The dam was nearly finished, and both were much excited with the success of their work; for
the water had collected in quite a pool above, and would soon flow over in a fine fall. Dolly
ran, leaving the doors open behind her. Back she came, and Willie was carefully adjusting the
last beam, when Ada shouted,--

"Here's Prig, and Blackhawk's out."

All three started, calling Prig, and running after her and Blackhawk in wild confusion. Prig
misunderstood their anxiety, and supposing they were setting her on the rabbit, joined in the
hunt. Poor Blackhawk tried to escape, but Prig caught him, gave one shake, and the pretty rabbit
lay dead.

"O, you wicked dog!" cried Ada, while Willie and Dolly stood quite overcome by the misfortune.

Prig saw in a moment she had made a mistake, and when Willie rushed at her with uplifted hammer,
hid behind the summer-house. With loud grief and many tears, the children raised their dead
pet, and laid it on a bench in the out-house. Its blue eyes were half open, its soft black-and-white
fur wet and rumpled, and they cried and blamed Prig as they tenderly arranged it on the bench.
Ada fairly howled, and Bridget and Mary ran out to see what was the matter.

"Ay," said Bridget, "and it was Dolly herself left the door open, though I told her to shut it."

"I didn't know Prig was there," sobbed Dolly.

"It's all Prig's fault," said Willie, "and I'll kill her."

"No, no," pleaded Dolly, with whom Prig was an especial favorite.

A consultation was held over the bench, and it was finally decided that the case should be
referred to Mrs. Constant on her return, though Willie still vowed vengeance. Prig had crept
back, and crouched in the doorway; but when the children saw her, they drove her away, throwing
stones and calling her the worst names they could invent. She skulked outside very unhappy,
until Willie shut her up in the summer-house, while the children spent the rest of the long
afternoon over their dead rabbit. Dolly tied the Princess Widdlesbee's best blue sash about
his neck, Willie emptied his toolbox to lay him in, and Ada spread her best doll's bed-quilt
over him. Then they sat and cried together until Dolly started up, and said,--

"There's mother."

The first thing Mrs. Constant heard when she entered the house was the cry of,--

"Mother, mother!"

Not with the joyous ring it had in the morning, but with an appeal in it which told her some
trouble had come which mother could best heal. All told the story separately and together,
laying Blackhawk on her knees, and crying on her shoulder.

"And I'm going to hang Prig for a wicked, bad dog," said Willie, to conclude. "She is a murderer!"
and he fiercely wiped his tears.

"My dear little boy, I don't think poor Prig was to blame at all."

"O, mother!" cried a mournful chorus.

"No; Dolly left the door open, you all excited her, and I begin to think you were having too
much of what Willie calls a holiday."

"But it wasn't her holiday, and she's killed Blackhawk. O-o-o!" and they all cried again.

Mrs. Constant soothed them, and sympathized.

"Don't cry any more. You will be sick. I would not kill Prig, for then she would be gone too,
and to-morrow you would be sorry. And besides, she was only trying to do as you wanted her
to, and following out her doggish instinct."

But half convinced, the children went to the summer-house and called Prig; but she would not
come. Then they drove her out, and as she stood trembling before them, reproached her, and
raising their arms, shouted,--

"Go!"

Prig hesitated a moment, looked from one to another, then with her tail between her legs, her
hair on end, she uttered an unearthly howl, and fled at full speed, crowded under the gate,
and disappeared.

The children went to bed early, as Mrs. Constant thought the excitement was bad for them, and
in the night she was called to the little girl's room. Dolly was feverish, and ill with a sore
throat, and Ada in great pain. They were sick all night, and in the morning Mrs. Constant heard
about the second piece of pie and Dolly's dam building. Her sleeves had been wet all the afternoon,
and the grief, added to the pie and wet, had made them both ill.

They were not able to go out that day, and Willie buried Blackhawk alone, while they watched
him sadly from the window. They took their last farewell of their pet at the kitchen door,
and would have given all their yesterday's sport to have helped Willie with the funeral. He
had meant that Prig should have attended as chief mourner, but she was nowhere to be found.
No one had seen her since her flight, and for days they could find no trace of her. This added
to their discomfort; for they all loved her, and Ada and Dolly were confined to the house for
some time, and wanted her to play with them.

About a week after, on a rainy night, Bridget found her at the kitchen door, and with great
difficulty persuaded her to come in. She was very thin and unhappy, and hid from the children,
when they, already sorry for their harshness, were kind to her, and tried to play with her.
It was a long time before she was the lively Prig she used to be, and was always a little lame
in her left fore foot. Something had hurt her in those days of absence; and though after a
while the children forgot their holiday and the consequences, I am afraid poor Prig never did.

                                                SARA CONANT.

LET HIM LIVE.

    When one sees a harmless snake,
    Lying torpid, scarce awake,
          On a chilly morning,
    Is it well his life to take
          Without leave or warning?

    Pretty brown and yellow snake,
    Whom the sun doth gently wake
          In the lap of nature,
    Here is room for weed and brake--
          Room for every creature.

    Teach us, Nature, how to love,
    Not the flower and bird alone,
          Gracious man and woman--
    Not the beautiful alone,
          Whether brute or human.

    Teach us, that we may not wound
    Even a striped snake on the ground,
          Sunshine all around him!
    We will go without a sound--
          Leave him as we found him.

                       MARY R. WHITTLESEY.

MONKEYS.

Before the advent of man, and with him civilization, monkeys were spread over a much larger
portion of the earth than at present. They lived in the south of Europe, in England, and in
France. Except a few of the Paviane, those of the present time are found only in warm climates,
and are very sensitive to cold.

Monkeys belong to the liveliest and most active of the mammalia. As everything eatable is acceptable
to them, there is always something to catch, to dig, to gather--insects, fruits, roots, nuts,
succulent herbs, buds, leaves, eggs, &c.

Many stories are told about the orang-outang, or pongo, an inhabitant of the islands of Borneo
and Sumatra. It is the largest of the apes, being, in some cases, seven feet high.

Vosmarin, a Hollander, kept a tamed pongo for a long time. He says, "My pongo had rather a
sad and downcast look, but was gentle and affectionate, and very fond of society, preferring
those persons who busied themselves about it. Once it seized a bottle of Malaga, uncorked it,
brought the wine to a secure place, recorked the bottle, and set it back again. This monkey
was very fond of roasted and boiled meats, and sucked eggs with great delight; however it preferred
fruits to all other food. After drinking, it was in the habit of wiping its mouth with the
back of the hand, as men sometimes do, and it generally used a toothpick. It made great preparations
before going to sleep, shaking the hay for its bed, and making a bundle for a pillow; it covered
itself with any cloth or garment it could find.

"Seeing me unlock a door, it observed very attentively, then put a piece of wood in the keyhole,
and tried to turn it round. Having been scratched by a cat with which it was playing, it could
never be induced to touch pussy again. It untied knots easily, and regularly practised upon
the shoes of those who came near. It could lift very heavy burdens, and made as good use of
its hind as of its fore legs; for example, if it could not reach a thing with the fore hands,
it lay on its back, and drew the object with the hind ones. It never cried except when left
alone. At first the crying resembled the howling of a dog, then it became rougher, and at last
resembled the noise of a wood-saw. It died of consumption."

Jeffries tells of an orang-outang which was very neat; it frequently washed the floor with
a cloth, after carrying away all remnants of food. It also washed its face and hands like a
man. This animal was very affectionate towards all who spoke kindly, and often kissed its owner
and waiter.

The chimpanzee is more like man, in shape, than any other animal. It is from four to five feet
high; is found in the west part of Africa. Its strength is astonishing; one chimpanzee can
break off branches of trees which two men cannot bend. It is kind and amiable, and very teachable.
Captain Grantpret speaks of a chimpanzee, which he had on board ship, as follows: "It worked
with the sailors, casting anchor, reefing sails, &c., and doing its full share of work faithfully.
The ship's baker depended upon it to heat the oven, which it did with wonderful care and exactness,
never letting the coals fall, and ever getting the right heat. It made a peculiar motion to
show that the oven was ready, and the baker, fully confiding in its judgment, was not disappointed.
The sailors were very fond of it, and treated it as a companion; but the pilot, a cruel, heartless
man, abused the animal, despite its pitiful looks and gestures, as it placed its hand upon
its heart, and then stretched it towards him, to tell the pain it felt. However, it did not
resent his continued ill-treatment, but refused to take any nourishment; five days after it
died of hunger and a broken heart. The sailors bemoaned its loss as that of a companion."

We read of another chimpanzee, which sat at table, ate with knife, fork, and spoon, drank from
a wine-glass, used a napkin, put sugar into a cup, poured out tea, stirred it with a spoon,
and sipped from the cup until cool enough to drink.

A sick monkey is truly a pitiable object; it sits quiet and sad, and its look, as it seems
to beg for help, in its distress, is almost human. The nearer it approaches its end, the gentler
and milder it becomes; losing in its animal, it seems to gain in its spiritual nature. It perceives
a benefactor in its attending physician, and thankfully acknowledges his kindness. If it has
been relieved by bleeding, it invariably stretches out its arm at the doctor's approach, as
if desiring to be bled again.

                                                    L. B. U.

MY MOTHER'S STORIES.

I recall a little verse my mother taught me one summer twilight, which, she remarked, she had
taught the older children when they were little like me. It was this:--

"HAVE COMMUNION WITH FEW, BE INTIMATE WITH ONE, DEAL JUSTLY BY ALL, AND SPEAK EVIL OF NONE."

And then she added cheerfully, "It took some time to get your brother to repeat it correctly;
he would say untimate for intimate, and justless instead of justly. But he learned it correctly
at last, and, I may add, has never forgotten it." So with amusement were mother's good instructions
blended; after the pleasant story about my brother's childhood it was impossible to forget
the text.

But, alas, I have never taught it to my children; so many papers, books, and magazines made
expressly for children of this generation, hasten the lighting of the evening lamp, and the
twilight lessons of home become fewer. But in them all, I never read a more comprehensive paragraph,
and one that would do to put in practice in every particular so thoroughly, and I hope if it
gets into print, not only my children, but those of other households, will commit it to memory,
imbibe its spirit, and put it in practice through life.

                                                       E. E.

SAILING THE BOATS.

    Ho! the jolly sailors,
      Lounging into port!
    Heave ahead, my hearties--
      That's your lively sort!
    Splendid sky above us,
      Merrily goes the gale.
    Stand by to launch away
      Rag and paper sail!

    Archie owns a schooner,
      Jack a man-o'-war,
    Joe a clipper A 1
      Named the Morning Star;
    Charlie sails a match-box,
      Dignified a yawl;
    Breakers on the lee shore--
      Look out for a squall!

    Now we're bound for China--
      That's across the pond;
    When we go a-cruising
      Many a mile beyond.
    Man-o'-war is watching
      A rakish-looking craft--
    Kerchunk! goes a bullfrog
      From his rushy raft.

    There's a fleet of lilies
      We go scudding round,--
    Bumblebees for sailors,--
      And they're fast aground.
    Here's a drowning fly
      In her satin dress.
    All hands, about ship!
      Signals of distress.

    Argosies of childhood,
      Laden down with joys,
    Gunwale-deep with treasures!
      Happy sailor boys,
    May your merry ventures
      All their harbors win,
    And upon life's stormy sea
      Every ship come in.

                            GEORGE COOPER.

IT TAKES TWO TO MAKE A QUARREL.

A STORY FOR OUR YOUNGEST READERS.

How Harry Marshall had reckoned upon that piece of currant-pudding! The farmer's wife, whose
name was Jolly (and a very fit name for her it was), had promised him a plateful for dinner,
because he had taken such good care of her pet brood of chickens while she had been away from
Elm Tree Farm on a visit.

Harry was a farmer's lad, ten years old, tall and stout for his age, and able to do a great
many more things than some city boys of fourteen. He could ride and drive, keep the stable
in order, and even handle a plough. Nor was he a dunce; for, thanks to an evening school, which
some of his Sunday teachers had opened in the village, he had learned to read and write very
fairly. He had a comfortable place at farmer Jolly's; but there was plenty of work to do, and
the food was plain, though he always had enough; so he did not get pudding every day. No wonder,
then, that he should go to bed and dream about that particular currant-pudding of which I am
writing. You must not suppose that this was made with such "currants" as are put into a Christmas
pudding; they are only small grapes. No; it was a real currant-pudding, full of nice red fruit
and juice, enough to make your mouth water.

The long morning's work was at last over, and Harry, nothing loath, hastened in and took his
place at the side table in the kitchen, where he usually sat. His plate of meat and potatoes
was soon cleared, for the boy's appetite had been sharpened by several hours in the fields.

"And now, Harry," said Martha, the servant, "here's your pudding, and a nice piece it is; but
you mustn't be long about it, for John and Peter will want you back in the field; they have
been gone this half hour." So saying, Martha placed the longed-for treat before Harry, and
went out to attend to some work in the farm-yard.

Just at that moment a wasp, who had grown tired of buzzing about the peaches in the garden,
and trying in vain to get at them (for Peter had covered them with network), peeped in at the
window with one of his many eyes, and, spying Master Harry's pudding, thought, I suppose, that
he should like a share. So, without waiting to be invited, he flew in with a loud hum, and
made straight for the table, just as Harry had stuck his fork into the first piece of crust.

Now, our farmer's boy, though he liked pudding, did not like wasps, which he fancied were always
ready to sting; and being himself rather hasty in temper, he at once declared war against the
little intruder. First he hit at it with his knife, but without success; and then with his
fork, but only with this result--that the pudding, instead of going into Harry's mouth, flew
under the grate among the ashes, while the wasp seemed to be humming a song of defiance.

Harry grew red in the face, and vowed vengeance against "the nasty thing;" but "the nasty thing"
would not come and be killed. Seizing a large wooden pudding spoon, which lay close at hand,
Harry jumped on one of the wooden chairs and aimed a desperate blow at the poor insect. But
Yellow-band was too sharp for him, and Harry, losing his balance, fell down with a thump on
the sanded floor, while his weapon, spinning across the kitchen, came in contact with one of
Mrs. Jolly's basins, and brought it down with a crash. In rushed Martha in a fright, and, worse
still, farmer Jolly's round, good-natured face appeared close behind.

"Bless the boy," cried Martha, "what have you been up to now?"

"Why--why," said Harry, rubbing his shoulder and looking ruefully at the broken china, "it
was all that horrid wasp."

"And why couldn't you leave the wasp alone?" retorted Martha, angrily, as she picked up some
of the pieces.

"Ay, boy," said farmer Jolly, "why couldn't you leave the wasp alone, eh? Why couldn't you
leave it alone?" he repeated, catching Harry by the arm with a grip that made him wince.

"Please, sir--please, sir," stammered the boy, "I thought the nasty--the wasp I mean--was going
to sting me."

"Stuff and nonsense," replied the farmer; "if you don't interfere with the wasps, the wasps
won't interfere with you. How often have I told you that it takes two to make a quarrel? Now
you have wasted your time, spoiled your dinner, and done mischief; so you had better be off
to your work, and Martha will put the pudding away till to-morrow."

Harry hastened out, looking very foolish, and feeling very much disappointed. "I wish I'd left
the wasp alone," he said to himself; "then I shouldn't have lost the pudding. The farmer says,
'It takes two to make a quarrel,' and I suppose it does. At that rate we needn't quarrel at
all, unless we like. I'll think about that, so I will." And so he did; and when he felt inclined
to quarrel, not only with wasps, but with boys, he checked himself by calling to mind farmer
Jolly's words.

And I am of opinion that, if the boys and girls who read this story would remember it too,
they would escape many unpleasant and disagreeable things, and be more likely to have a really
happy year. For a far wiser Teacher than farmer Jolly once said, "Blessed (or happy) are the
peacemakers."

A GOOD WORD NOT LOST.

Field-marshal Alexander Suvaroff, the commander-in-chief of the Russian army during the reigns
of Catharine II. and Paul I., was especially fond of mixing with the common soldiers, and sharing
in their sports and conversations, being always highly delighted when his men failed to discover
him; and this happened pretty often, for, thanks to his small stature and ugly face, as well
as the extreme plainness of his dress, the great marshal looked as little like a general as
any man could do. In this way he got to understand thoroughly the character of his soldiers,
and had a greater power over them than any Russian general before or after him. His marvellous
power of enduring fatigue, his insensibility to heat, cold, or hunger, and his untiring energy
on the field of battle (in all which points he surpassed the hardiest of his grenadiers), made
him the idol of the rough soldiers whom he commanded; and a word of reproof from Father Alexander
Vasilievitch, as his men affectionately called him, was more dreaded than the fire of a battery.

Before one of his Italian campaigns, Suvaroff gathered together a number of his best men, and
made them one of the short pithy speeches for which he was famous, and some of which are remembered
among the peasantry to this day:--

"My children, we are going to fight the French. Remember, whatever you meet, you must go forward.
If the enemy resist, kill them; but if they yield, spare them; and always remember that a Russian
soldier is not a robber, but a Christian. Now, go and tell your comrades what I have said!"

A few days later a great battle took place, in which the day went against the French, who began
to retreat about sunset; and a soldier named Ivan Mitrophanoff, who had distinguished himself
by his bravery throughout the whole day, captured, with the help of a comrade who was with
him, a French officer and two of his men. Mitrophanoff bound up the officer's wounded arm,
and seeing that the prisoners appeared faint from want of food, shared with them the coarse
rye loaf which was to have served him for supper. He had scarcely done so, when up came three
or four Russian grenadiers, hot with fighting, and raising furious cries.

"What," cried they, "three of these French dogs living yet!" and they ran upon the prisoners
with levelled bayonets.

"Hold, my lads!" cried Mitrophanoff. "I've given them their lives, and no one must touch them now!"

But the soldiers would not listen to him, and were rushing forward, when a stern voice from
behind shouted, "Halt!" and a little, pugnosed, dirty-faced man, dressed only in a coarse linen
shirt and a pair of tattered gray trousers, stepped into the circle. But, ragged and dirty
as he was, the fierce soldiers could not have looked more frightened had he been a giant in
full armor.

"The general!" muttered they, slinking off.

"Ay, the general!" roared Suvaroff, "who will have some of you shot presently, if you can't
learn to obey orders better! And you," he added, turning to Mitrophanoff, "who taught you to
be so good?"

"Your highness' own self taught me," answered the grenadier. "I haven't forgotten what you
told us last week--that a Russian soldier is not a robber, but a Christian!"

"Right!" exclaimed Suvaroff, with a brightening face. "A good word is never lost, you see.
Give me your hand, my lad; you shall be a sergeant to-morrow, and a right good one you'll make!"

And the next day he made good his word.

[Decoration]

PONTO.

Our dog Ponto is a knowing old fellow. It is as good as a show to watch him sometimes. He has
one quality that most of us might seek after with advantage--that is, a will to overcome difficulties
that scarcely anything can hinder. If Ponto takes it into his head to do anything, he is pretty
sure to succeed. What helps his dogship is the faculty of imitation. He is like a monkey in
this, only a great deal more sensible than any monkey I ever heard tell of. You never catch
him venturing upon unknown danger, or making himself ridiculous, because his human friends
and companions choose to step aside from the ways of safety and respectability.

One day, a few years ago, Ponto was missing. He had been about as usual during the morning,
but all at once disappeared. A neighbor told us that he had seen him fighting with the butcher's
dog about noon, and that he was getting the worst of it. I went over to the butcher's during
the afternoon, and the butcher's boy confirmed the neighbor's story. Ponto had come over there
for a fight, as the boy said, and "got more than he bargained for."

"He'll not try it again very soon, I'm thinking," added the boy, with a malicious pleasure.

"Do you know where he is now?" I asked.

"Home, I suppose. He went off that way, limping," answered the boy.

"Was he much hurt?"

"Considerable, I guess."

I went back home, but no one had seen Ponto. I was beginning to feel anxious about the dog,
when he was found in one of the third-story rooms, snugly covered up in bed, with his head
on the pillow. On turning down the clothes a sight met our eyes. The sheets were all stained
with blood, and the poor dog, hurt and exhausted, looked as helpless and pitiful as any human
being.

I will not tell you of all the wounds he had received. There were a great many of them, and
some quite severe. "A good lesson for him," we all said. And it proved so, for he was a little
more careful after that how he got into a fight.

A few months before, I had been thrown from a wagon and badly hurt--so much so that I was confined
to bed for a week. Ponto was with me at the time of the accident, and on my arrival at home
followed me into the house and up to the chamber where I was taken. He watched every movement
as I was laid in bed, and then sat down with his eyes on my pale face, regarding me with such
looks of pity and interest that I was touched and surprised.

When Ponto's turn came, he remembered the comfortable way in which I had been cared for, and
profited by what he had seen. But his mistress, while she pitied the poor animal, did not fancy
having her spare bedroom turned into a dog-hospital; and so we removed him to an out-house
and made him as comfortable there as possible.

One cold winter evening Ponto was absent from his accustomed place in the hall, where he slept
on a mat. The wind was high and there was a confusion of sounds outside.

"Hark!" said one.

We all listened.

"I thought I heard a knock at the hall door."

"Only the wind," was replied.

"Yes; there it is again."

We all heard two distinct knocks, given quickly one after the other.

I arose, and going into the hall went to the front door and opened it. As I did so Ponto bounded
in past me, gave two or three short, glad barks, and then paid his boisterous respects to the
family in the sitting-room. I waited a moment, and then stepped out to see who had lifted the
knocker, but found no one. Ponto had done it himself, as we had proof enough afterward; for
ever since that time he has used the knocker as regularly as any two-legged member of the family.

I could tell you stories for a whole evening about Ponto, but these two must answer for the
present.

BRUIN AT A MAPLE-SUGAR PARTY.

One evening near the first of April, three years ago this spring, I was making my way the best
I could down from the west branch of the Penobscot River towards the plantation of Nikertou.
(Up in Maine they call an unincorporated town a plantation. Down south the word has a different
meaning.) How and why I came to be in that wild section, at the hour of twilight, may need
a word in explanation.

A month previously I had been sent up to the "Head of Chesuncook" from Bangor, by the lumbering
firm of which my uncle was a member, to pay off one of their "gangs," which made the "head"
of that lake a sort of depot and place of rendezvous.

Both going up and coming back as far as the foot of Lake Pemadumcook, I had had with me, as
guide and armed protector, an old hunter named Hughy Clives. But on getting down to the foot
of this lake, and within six or eight miles of Nikertou, old Hughy had been seized with a sudden
desire to leave me and to go to Millinocket Lake in quest of otters; and so giving me my "course"
for Nikertou, he had bidden me "good luck," and again started northward.

It was a warm, spring-like afternoon, though the snow in that region still lay to the depth
of three or four feet; but on my snow-shoes I didn't mind the depth; the main thing was to
keep out of the brush and the dense hemlock and cedar thickets.

It was about two o'clock when I left the river; and I had expected to get down to the little
"settlement" by sunset. But the sun went below the distant spruce-clad ridges, and dusk fell,
with as yet no signs of a "clearing." Had I lost my way? My little pocket-compass said I was
all right--if Hughy had given me a correct course; and I had all confidence in the old man
too. Still, as the twilight deepened around me, with the unbroken forest stretching drearily
ahead, I began to feel rather uneasy; especially as (since parting with Hughy and his rifle)
I had no weapon save a jack-knife and a little pocket-pistol I had brought along with me from
Bangor--not very effective arms in case a catamount should take it into his head to drop down
upon me from a tree-top, or a big black bear to step out from behind one of those low hemlocks,
or even a cross old "lucivee" to rush out from some of those thick cedar clumps. For thoughts
of these things had begun to pop into my mind. I was but seventeen then, and hadn't quite outgrown
my fear of the dark. And thus plodding timorously onward, thinking on many things injurious
to a boy's courage, I had begun to think I should have to make a night of it there, somewhere,
when the red gleam of a fire, from the crest of the ridge before me, suddenly burst out on
the darkness, banishing all my fears. For a fire, whether in a hunter's camp or a farm-house
window, is good evidence of man's presence, with food and shelter--the two great wants of the
belated.

Hurrying on, I made my way up the slope. The fire seemed to be in the open air, among trees--a
woodman's camp probably; and, knowing that these men are sometimes a little ticklish about
having strangers come too suddenly into their night camps, I halted, while yet at some distance,
for a good look ahead.

There seemed to be several large kettles, slung with chains from a "lug-pole" supported by
strong crotched stakes at each end--a circumstance which struck me as a little odd at a hunting-fire.
No one was in sight, though a sort of half shelter of hemlock might contain the campers. Whatever
they were, it would be well to hail them. So, calling in my breath, I gave a loud "hullo."

Two dusky figures rose from the shelter, and looked out towards me into the darkness.

"Hullo!" I repeated; and in response heard a clear boyish voice exclaiming,--

"Who's there?"

"Belated tramper."

"Well, walk up, Mr. Tramper, where we can see what you are."

I moved up to be seen, and on my part saw a couple of youngsters, of about my own age, who
were tending what turned out to be a sugar-camp.

"Where from?" demanded the taller of the two.

"Head of Chesuncook. Going to Bangor. Can I stay here to-night?"

"Of course you can. Had any supper?"

"Not a mouthful."

"Something left--wasn't there, Zeke?" said he, turning to his comrade, who was now pouring
cold sap into the "heater."

"Enough for one, I guess," said Zeke; and, taking a bucket and a wooden bowl from under the
hemlock, he produced a slab of johnny-cake from the former, and, pouring out something like
a quart of maple sirup into the latter, bade me "go ahead."

I did so without further invitation, and never made a better supper, the programme being to
dip the bread into the sirup, mouthful by mouthful.

The boys were now preparing their night's wood.

There had been, they said, "an excellent run of sap" during the last few days. The kettles
were kept boiling day and night, steadily. It was truly a wild scene. Clouds of steam gushed
up from the surging kettles; and the fires gleamed brighter as the darkness deepened, while
all about us seemed a wall of blackness. But my long tramp had thoroughly tired me down, and
my recollections of the remainder of the evening are a little drowsy, though I learned in the
course of it that the names of the two youthful sugar-makers, upon whose camp I had stumbled,
were Zeke Murch and Sam Bubar; and I also helped to take off a large kettle of hot sirup, which
we set in a snow-drift, two or three rods from the fire, to cool. This done, I was soon asleep,
rolled up in an old coverlet, and knew very little till, hearing voices, I opened my eyes to
the fact that the sun was staring me in the face from over the eastward ridge, as if surprised
at my sloth.

Hastily unrolling myself, I saw Sam and Zeke out at the kettle we had set in the snow, pointing
and excitedly discussing something.

"Old scamp!" exclaimed Zeke. "What work he's made here!"

"All this sugar gone--spoiled!" cried Sam.

"What is it?" said I, going out to them. "What's the matter?"

"Why," said Sam, turning and laughing in spite of his vexation, "something has guzzled up 'most
the whole of this 'honey' we set out here last night. Only see there!"

The kettle, which must have held several pailfuls, was nearly empty; and what was left hadn't
a very inviting look certainly.

"What in the world ate all that?" cried I.

"Well--a bear, we expect," said Zeke. "There's been one hanging round here for several nights.
We heard him hoot out, down in the swamp, ever so many times, after you had gone to sleep last
night. Didn't think he'd come up so near the fire, though. But we both got to sleep a little
while after midnight. I suppose he must have lushed up the sirup then."

"Tremendous fellow, too," said Sam. "Look at those tracks!"

Tracks indeed! There in the snow about the kettle were his broad, deep footmarks, long as a
man's boot, and much wider, pressed down, too, into the snow, as only great weight could have
pressed.

"Gracious!" exclaimed I, "you wouldn't have caught me going to sleep here if I had known there
was such a monster as that round!"

"Rather lucky, I think," said Zeke, "that he didn't take it into his head to top off his sirup
with some of us."

"And I'm mad, too," continued Zeke. "We were depending on this kittle of sirup for our party
to-night."

"Your party?"

"Yes; we've invited a lot of the boys--and girls, too--to come up here this evening, to make
'sheep-skins.' You'll stay--won't you? We were going to ask you."

"Don't know," said I, still thinking of the bear.

"O, I don't think he'll meddle with us," said Sam, guessing at my hesitation. "I'm going down
to get some fixins, and shall bring up a gun. If he calls again, he may get a dose of buckshot."

No one is apt to be a great coward after the sun is up. Thus reassured, I concluded to stop
to the party, for which the boys were intending to make a great preparation.

"Let's do the thing up in style now," said Sam.

We went at it. First we cut low, shrubby evergreens, hemlocks mostly, and with these made a
sort of enclosure, some four rods in diameter, around the kettles, by planting them in the
snow. Then clipping off an immense quantity of smaller boughs, we strewed the snow inside the
enclosure with these. We thus had a sort of green room (without any roof), in the centre of
which steamed the boiling kettles; and at the entrance, or doorway, we made a grand arch of
cedar. For seats we rolled in "four-foot" cuts from the trunk of a large poplar they had lately
felled, first splitting off a slab from the side of each to form a seat, which we cushioned
with cedar.

Meanwhile another kettle of sirup was boiling down to supply the place of that the bear had
drank; and filling some fifteen or twenty sap-buckets with clean snow, crowded down hard to
make the "sheep-skins" on, we were ready for our company.

It was nearly night before all this had been completed. Sam had been down to the "settlement"
and brought up a quantity of bread to go with our honey; and I was glad to see that he hadn't
forgotten the gun; for, as night began to close in again, I couldn't help remembering the great
tracks out there in the snow-drift. As it grew dark and the fire began to shine on the green
boughs, our scenery looked even better than by daylight; and for beacons to our incoming guests,
we fixed torches of pitch-wood upon stakes thrust into the snow around our camp, and at several
points out in the woods, like lamp-posts in a town.

"Quite a show," said Sam, surveying the preparation. "How changed and odd it makes it look
all about!"

Ere long voices began to be heard coming up through the woods,--merry shouts and hails,--to
which the boys responded, bidding them hurry, and promising a big "sheep-skin" to the one who
first got up there.

A chorus of merry cries and laughter followed this announcement; and in a few moments a racing,
panting crowd of a dozen boys and girls came up in sight, and poured under the arch--sturdy
lads, and lasses in red frocks and checked aprons. And here be it said that a girl--a certain
rosy Nell Ridley--won the sheep-skin by being the first under the archway. But the others were
not far behind, and in another moment our green arena was swarming with the young folks.

Though a stranger, I soon found myself acquainted and on the best of terms with everybody.
Sheep-skins were now being run by the dozen, the process being to pour hot sirup upon the cold,
hard-pressed snow in the buckets, where it instantly cooled, becoming tough and of the color
of sheep-skin. And if one has a "sweet tooth," nothing among all the "sugars" can compare with
a maple sheep-skin.

We all had sweet teeth there, and were in the midst of a furious romp around the kettles in
chase of Nell, whom some one had accused of appropriating "the great one," when somebody suddenly
cried,--

"Hark!"

There was an instant hush; when clear on the evening air there came a wild cry--a long, quavering
"Hoo-oo-oo."

"Bear! A bear!" exclaimed several of the boys, to whom bruin's nightly cries were but familiar
sounds. But save that a few of the girls looked a little startled, no one seemed to be much
alarmed. I saw Zeke looking to the priming of the old gun, though; and for a while we were
pretty whist, listening; but the cry, which had seemed at a considerable distance, was not
repeated. Indeed, in the merriment which soon succeeded, the most of us had entirely forgotten
it, I think. At least we were all in the midst of another scrimmage over the "last biscuit,"
when a loud snort, like that of a startled horse, a sort of "woof! woof!" accompanied by a
great rustling in our evergreen hedge, startled us; and turning, we saw--I shall never forget
the sight--an enormous black creature coming through our fence, with all the independence of
a sole proprietor! Of course, as Zeke afterwards expressed it, "if he was coming in, we wanted
to go out."

The girls were not of the fainting sort; but they did scream some, and we all sprang away like
cats through the opposite side of the hedge. The gun had been left standing near the place
where the bear had broken in, and was not to be got at, of course. But, catching out my pistol,
as we scrambled through the hemlock, I discharged it at the old fellow, hitting him, I guess;
for he growled and came straight after me. 'Twas no time to be loitering. Down the slope we
all ran together, slumping and sprawling full length in the soft snow! Up and on again, knocking
out spiles and kicking over sap-buckets, bumping and grazing ourselves against the rough bark
of the maples; for it was pitch dark in the woods. But on we went for dear life, expecting
every moment to feel the bear's teeth or claws from behind. At first I had a sort of impression
that we boys should have to wait and put ourselves between the girls and the bear; but I soon
found I had all I could do to keep up with them. Such girls to run I never saw before! And
we never stopped till, at a distance of a mile below, the forest opened out into a cleared field.

There we began to discover that the bear was not after us, and gradually came to a halt. After
getting breath, however, we kept on--at a little slower pace, though--down to the "corners,"
where, after seeing the girls to their respective dwellings, guns were procured, and, rallying
out Mr. Bubar and Mr. Murch, senior, with several other men, we all started back to hunt up
the bear. Going quietly up through the woods, we cautiously approached to a point where the
gap we had made in rushing out of our enclosure enabled us to see what was going on inside;
and there by the firelight we beheld the bear sitting cosily before the coals, and gazing wistfully
into the boiling kettles. He had probably found them too hot for his use.

Raising their guns, the men all fired together--a murderous volley of bullets and buckshot.
Rearing upon his haunches with a sullen growl, old bruin glared around a moment, then fell
over backwards, and, with a few dying kicks and groans, was dead. And this was the end of Bruin
and the maple-sugar party.

THE AFRICAN ELEPHANT.

There is not the least difficulty in distinguishing the Asiatic from the African elephant.
The ears of the former are comparatively small, only reaching a little below the eyes, while
the ears of the African species are of enormous dimensions, actually crossing on the back of
the neck, drooping far below the chin, and extending beyond the shoulder-blade. Generally,
the ears are laid so flatly against the neck, that they seem almost to form part of the skin
of the head and shoulders; but when the creature is suddenly roused, the ears are thrown forward,
and stand out so boldly, that they look more like wings than ears. Towards the lower part the
ears form themselves into slight folds, which are not without some degree of elegance.

The end of the trunk also differs from that of the Asiatic species. In that animal a kind of
finger projects from the upper part of the extremity; but in the African species the end of
the trunk is split so far, that the two lobes act as opposable fingers, and serve to grasp
any object which the animal desires to hold. This structure can easily be seen by offering
the animal a piece of biscuit. The forehead, too, affords another means of distinction, being
convex in the African, and flat or slightly concave in the Asiatic.

Another very decided difference lies in the teeth. These enormous engines of mastication are
made up of a number of flat plates laid side by side, and composed of enamel and bone. In the
Asiatic species these plates are nearly oval in form, and may be imitated by taking a piece
of cardboard, rolling it into a tube, and then pressing it until it is nearly flat. But in
the African species these plates are of a diamond shape, and may be rudely imitated by taking
the same cardboard tube, and squeezing it nearly flat at each end, leaving the centre to project.
In consequence of these distinctions, several systematic zoölogists have thought that the African
elephant ought to be placed in a separate genus, and have therefore called it Loxodonta Africana,
the former of these words signifying "oblique-toothed." I think, however, that there are no
real grounds for such a change, and that the genus Elephas is amply sufficient for both species.

The enormous ears of the African elephant are not without their use to the hunter, who finds
in them an invaluable aid in repairing damages to his wagons and guns. Even if a gun-stock
be smashed,--an accident which is of no very unfrequent occurrence in South African hunting,--a
large piece of elephant's ear, put on while fresh and wet, and allowed to dry in the sun, sets
matters right again, and binds the fragments together as if they were enclosed in iron. Sometimes
the ear seems to be a protection to the animal; for it is so tough and strong, despite its
pliability, that the hunter will occasionally find several bullets lodged in the ear, which
have not been able to penetrate through a substance at once tough and flexible.

This species is of a thirsty nature, so that wherever elephant paths are seen, the hunter knows
that he is not very far from water of some kind. And as elephants have a fashion of travelling
in Indian file, it is easy enough to trace their footsteps, and so to find the water. The animals
go to drink in the evening, as do many other wild beasts, and the quantity which they consume
is enormous. They go close to the water's edge, insert the end of the trunk into the liquid,
draw it up until the two nostril-tubes are full, turn the end of the trunk into the mouth,
and then discharge the contents into the stomach. When satiated, they amuse themselves for
a while by blowing water all over their bodies, and then retrace their steps to the forest
glades whence they came.

The enormous quantity of water which they carry home within them has a rather curious effect.
At tolerably regular intervals a loud, rumbling sound is heard, much resembling the "glug-glug"
produced by pouring wine out of a bottle, and lasting a few seconds. Were it not for this phenomenon,
the hunters would meet with far less success than at present is the case. When hiding from
a foe, the elephant can remain motionless, so that not a cracking stick nor a rustling leaf
betrays its presence. But it cannot prevent this periodical rumbling; and accordingly, when
a hunter is in the bush after elephants, he sits down every few minutes, and waits, in order
to catch the sound which tells him that elephants are near. Even in the semi-domesticated specimens
at the London Zoölogical Gardens, this sound is easily to be heard.

The African elephant is more hunted than the Asiatic species, and affords better sport and
greater profit to the hunter. It seems to be a fiercer, more active, and probably a more cunning
animal, and, owing to the character of the country through which it ranges, it seems to be
of a more nomad disposition. The chase of the African elephant appears to exercise a kind of
fascination over its votaries, like the chase of the chamois among the Swiss mountaineers;
and when a hunter has fairly settled down to the business, he cannot tear himself away from
it without exercising great self-denial. Perhaps few sports are encompassed with greater difficulties
and dangers, or involve greater hardships; and yet the wild, free, roving life has such charms,
that even a highly-educated European can scarcely make up his mind to return to civilization.

In the first place, elephant hunting is not, as are many sports, an expensive amusement. On
the contrary, a hunter who possesses a sufficiency of skill, courage, and endurance will be
able not only to cover his expenses, but to pay himself handsomely for his trouble. There is
certainly a very large expenditure at the outset; for a hunter will need two wagons, with a
whole drove of oxen, several good and seasoned horses, a small arsenal of guns, with ammunition
to match, provisions for a lengthened period, and plenty of beads and other articles which
can be bartered for ivory. Moreover, a number of native servants must be kept, and the amount
of meat which they consume daily is almost appalling.

Then there are always great losses to be counted upon. The cattle get among the dread Tzetse
flies, and die off in a few hours; the horses catch the "paardsikte" (a kind of murrain), or
tumble into pitfalls; wagons break down, servants run away with guns, native chiefs detain
the wagons for weeks, together with a host of minor drawbacks. Still, if a man is worthy of
the name of hunter, and boldly faces these difficulties, he will pay himself well, provided
that his health holds out--there are so many valuable articles to be brought from Southern
Africa, such as the horns and furs of animals, the skins of birds, ostrich feathers, and ivory.

The teeth of the elephant, too, are valuable, and are made into various articles of use and
ornament. A set of knife-handles made of elephant's tooth is sometimes to be seen, and I have
now before me an excellent specimen of a knife-handle, which shows the alternate rows of enamel
and bone in a very striking manner, and is certainly a much handsomer article than a handle
made of simple ivory.

The elephant is, indeed, one of the most eccentric of animals. There is no possibility of calculating
upon it, and nothing but experience can serve a hunter when measuring his own intellect against
the elephant's cunning. The scent or sight of a human being at the distance of a mile will
send a herd of powerful male elephants on their travels, the huge creatures preferring to travel
for many miles rather than meet a man. Yet, when assailed, there is scarcely any animal which
is more to be dreaded. It forgets fear, and, filled with blind rage, it will chase an armed
man in spite of his rifle, and will continue to charge him until it dies.

It will engage in deadly battle with its own species, or with the mail-clad rhinoceros, and
yet will run away at the barking of a little dog. There was a curious instance some years ago,
when an elephant that was travelling in America went mad, escaped from its keeper during the
night, and traversed the country for miles, doing great damage. It broke carts to pieces, killed
the horses, and was trying to force its way into a barn where another horse had taken refuge,
when it was checked by a bull-dog, which flew at the huge animal, bit its legs, and worried
it so thoroughly, that the elephant, mad as it was, fairly ran away. Indeed, nothing seems
to cast this gigantic animal into such a state of perplexity as the noisy attacks of a little,
cross-tempered, insolent, yapping terrier. The elephant cannot understand it, and gets into
such a state of nervous irritation, that it never thinks of running away or annihilating its
diminutive foe, but remains near the same spot, making short and ineffectual charges, until
the hunter comes up and deliberately chooses his own position for attack.

The flesh of the elephant is anything but palatable, and when cut into strips and dried in
the sun, has been aptly compared to leather straps. A well-known hunter said that the character
of elephant's flesh might easily be imagined by taking the toughest beefsteak ever cooked,
multiplying the toughness by four, and subtracting all the gravy. The natives, however, are
possessed of marvellously strong jaws and sharp teeth, and to them meat is meat, whether tough
or tender. There are, however, several parts of the elephant which are always good; and these
are the heart, the feet, and the trunk. The heart and trunk are simply roasted, with the addition
of some of the fat from the interior of the body; but the feet require a more elaborate mode
of cookery.

While some of the men are cutting off the feet, others are employed in digging a circular hole
in the ground some ten feet deep and three wide, the earth being heaped round the edge. An
enormous heap of dry wood and leaves is then piled over the hole, set on fire, and allowed
to burn itself out. As soon as the last sticks have fallen into the hole, the men begin to
rake out the glowing embers with long poles. This is a laborious and difficult task, the heat
being so great, that each man can only work for a few consecutive seconds, and then gives way
to a cooler comrade. However, there are plenty of laborers, and the hole is soon cleared. The
elephant's foot is then rolled into the hole, and covered over with the earth that was heaped
round the edge. Another pile of wood is then raised, and when it has completely burned out,
the foot is supposed to be properly baked. Thus prepared, the foot is thought to be almost
the greatest luxury which South Africa can afford, the whole interior being dissolved into
a soft, gelatinous substance of a most delicate flavor. There is never any lack of fuel; for
the elephants break down so many branches for food, and in their passage through the bush,
that abundance of dry boughs can always be picked up within a limited area.

THE SONG OF THE BIRD.

I.

In those unhappy days when revolution prevailed in France, there were a number of noble families
who were reduced to extreme poverty. One of these was the family of Duke Erlan, who was a noble
and highly-respected man, while his wife was kind and charitable to such an extent that all
the poor people in the surrounding country loved her with great affection.

They had two children--Carl and Lillie. When a certain revolutionary outbreak had occurred,
the duke removed from the city where he lived to his chateau, in a retired part of the country,
where he was surrounded by rocks, vineyards, and fields of grain, far removed from the bustle
and turmoil of city life.

The good man regarded himself as very fortunate in being permitted to live here in quiet with
his family, and become the teacher of his children.

Notwithstanding the great danger prevailing in the country, this was indeed a happy family.

The duke was a good musician, and he made it an object to teach his children to play on the
piano; and though they were quite young, both of them knew a number of very beautiful tunes.

On one stormy evening, near the end of winter, all four of them sat together near their splendid
piano. The duke had composed a little song for his two children. It was such a pleasant, lively
melody, that they had learned it very easily, and each of them could play it. Their mother,
however, did not know it, and the children now thought it a great thing for them to have the
privilege of teaching it to her.

"Carl," said the duke, "you play, and we will sing."

And they sang this song:--

          "Take courage, bird;
          Our Father says,
          In winter's storms
          And summer's rays
          You have no barns,
          You sow no wheat,
    But God will give you bread to eat."

While they were singing, they heard some one knock at the door. They heard the bell ring, and
when the door was opened, five soldiers, clad in uniform, demanded Duke Erlan to deliver himself
up. They walked straight up to him, and told him that he must go immediately to prison. His
wife cast herself at their feet, and begged them to let him live in peace.

"We cannot help it," said they. "We have our orders, and must obey them."

Not five minutes elapsed before that good man was taken from the midst of his happy family,
and hurried to prison. The duchess and her son and daughter were overwhelmed with sorrow. They
could not sleep that night, and the next morning, as they looked out of the window and saw
how the storm had prevailed in the vineyards and on the fields, they felt that the storm in
their own hearts had been far more destructive.

The unhappy duchess now determined to use every means to rescue her beloved husband. She went
to the judges and assured them of her husband's innocence; but they did not seem to have any
more feeling than so many marble statues. She received, in reply to her entreaties, this answer:--

"In a few days your husband will be beheaded."

She returned to the castle after three days, and found that it was occupied by soldiers. The
furniture had all been taken away, and the treasures were missing. She was not permitted even
to enter the castle, and was informed that her children, for whom she was weeping in great
sorrow, were gone--nobody could tell where.

It was late at night, and she did not know where she would sleep. Going out into the castle-yard,
she was met by Richard, an old and faithful servant, who said,--

"Good mistress, you are in danger every moment of being arrested. There is no safety for you
unless you flee as quickly as possible. I cannot conceal you, for that would be dangerous for
all. I cannot save your husband, and if you stay here it will be certain death. Your children
are at my house. Come with me. My brother, the old fisherman, who keeps the ferry at the Rhine,
is already informed of the matter. I will go with you this very night, and he will take you
and your children safely over the river. Run--let us run for life."

The duchess came to the house of good Richard, where she found her children. But Lillie was
quite sick, and lay upon Richard's cot, suffering from a high fever. She did not even know
her mother. How could that good lady leave her sick child? She did not wish to do it, but the
peasant told her that she could be of no assistance, and that he would see that she was well
provided for.

"Run," said he, "for your life is in danger."

It was a sad moment when Lillie's mother was compelled to leave her child lying upon that sick
bed; but the good woman, before giving her a parting kiss, knelt at her side, and said,--

"O Lord, I commit this dear child to thee for safe keeping. I believe thou wilt one day restore
her to me."

The duchess was silent for a few moments; then, calmly arising, she kissed her child, took
Carl by the hand, and hastened through the door towards the distant river.

She finally came to the old ferryman's house, and he gave them a great deal of welcome, having
provided some warm soup and bread to strengthen them. They were taken over the river, and the
two brothers, Solomon and Richard, returned in the boat.

It was a desolate condition in which the duchess and her child were placed, and we must follow
her in her wanderings. The farther she went from the river, the safer it would be for her and
Carl. She followed the direction which Richard had given her, until she reached Switzerland.
But her delay there came near costing her her life, for she learned that a detective officer
was in search of them. With all the haste possible, she got across the Swiss boundary into
the Tyrol, which was Austrian territory. There she was safe. They passed over high mountains,
and through deep valleys, seeking a place where they could settle. At last they came to a certain
valley, which, in quiet beauty, surpassed anything that they had seen.

"This reminds me more of home," she said, "than any country through which we have passed. I
have got several hundred louis which good Richard saved when our house was plundered, and we
can afford to rent a little cottage."

The old Tyrolese peasant told her that there was no house for sale in all the valley. "But,"
said he, "you can board in my cottage if you choose."

The price was agreed upon, and the duchess and her son became inmates of the family. The little
room which was to be their home was very plainly furnished; but simple as it was, the first
thing that she did on entering it was to kneel there with her child, and thank God for a shelter.
She arranged her affairs as well as she could for a permanent residence with the Tyrolese peasant,
and she began to look upon it as home.

One day she told the peasant that she wished to send her little boy Carl to school, if there
was a good schoolmaster in the neighborhood.

"The pastor in a neighboring village," said the peasant, "will be here to-day to catechise
my child. He teaches school, and I think you can make an arrangement with him."

That day the gray-haired old pastor came, and an arrangement was made with him for Carl to
go to school to him. Books were provided for him, and he went to school with the greatest pleasure.
He was a rapid student, and repeated his lessons every evening to his mother.

In the Tyrol a great many canary birds are trained, and are sold to dealers all through the
country. The old Tyrolese peasant with whom the duchess and Carl were boarding had a young
and beautiful bird, which sang very sweetly. Carl asked his mother to buy this bird, saying,--

"Mother, this bird is very much like the one that our dear, sweet Lillie used to have. Buy
it for me, so that it may learn how to sing."

The duchess bought the bird, and soon became very much attached to it. Carl took the greatest
pleasure in its training, and in due time, little Tim--for that was his name--would come to
him and peck at his fingers, and rub his little head on Carl's hand.

Carl was a natural musician, just as his father was, and would sometimes play on a flute which
the old Tyrolese peasant had. Little Tim would imitate his tunes, and sometimes the concert
was well worth hearing.

The old pastor provided the duchess with news. One day he gave her a French newspaper, and
in the first column which she read there was a long list of the names of noblemen who had been
beheaded. Among them she read the name of her husband, Henry Erlan. The newspaper fell from
her hands, and she swooned away. A severe illness came on, and it was a long time doubtful
whether she would recover. The old Tyrolese despaired of her life, and said,--

"The coming autumn may find her no more with us; but who knows what the good Lord will bring
out of all this sorrow?"

II.

The old servant Richard, having rescued his good mistress from arrest, and probably from death,
now formed the resolution to save his master too. He had not much time to plan, for he learned
that the duke was to be beheaded the following week. It so happened that the son of his brother
Solomon, the ferryman, belonged to the National Guard, and was stationed at the prison to guard
it. If he could only secure him to engage in the enterprise, he felt that he could succeed.
It was a difficult thing to get a word to say to any member of the National Guard. But old
Richard had done many kind things for his nephew, and he succeeded in getting a note to him
through the post office, appointing a time, when he was off duty, to meet him. Richard opened
the whole enterprise freely to his nephew, and told him all the great injustice that had been
done a noble family, and the sufferings through which the different members had passed.

The duke was informed that he was to be beheaded next day, and his door was marked by the prison-keeper
as the room of a man who was to be executed the following morning. The good man knelt in prayer
after the intelligence had been conveyed to him, and said,--

"To whom shall I go for help and courage, this last night of my life, but to thee, O Lord?
Thou knowest best what will happen to me. If it be in accordance with thy will, permit me to
see my wife and children again. If thou seest that it is not best for thy glory that I should
live, then I will obey willingly. Thy will, not mine, be done."

That was a noble prayer. Scarcely had the last word fallen from his lips, when he heard somebody
gently lifting the latch of his door, and inserting the key.

"Save yourself," whispered the person who entered, who was none other than old Solomon's son,
to whom Richard had confided his enterprise. It was two o'clock in the morning, the very best
time to accomplish his purpose.

"Put on these clothes," said he, as he unfolded a soldier's uniform; "take this hat, and here
is a gun. As quickly as you possibly can, transform yourself into a soldier."

They escaped in safety from the prison, accompanied by the faithful Richard, and went as rapidly
as they could towards the Rhine. They reached old Solomon's ferry house. The young man knocked
gently at the window, and asked his father to come out as soon as possible and take the duke
over the river.

"Are you not going to take your little girl with you?" said the old ferryman.

"What little girl?" asked the duke.

"Your little daughter, whom my brother has brought here this very day; and she is as sweet
a child as I ever saw in my life. She lies asleep now in the corner of the room."

This was news which the nobleman did not expect to hear, and he was almost overcome with joy.
But he had no time to spend in greeting, except to give his dear Lillie a kiss. Soon they were
over the Rhine; but before reaching the bank on the opposite side, they were fired at by soldiers
who had come in search of them. A bullet passed through the top of the duke's high soldier
hat, but he was not harmed, and escaped in safety.

The great task for him to accomplish now was to find his wife and boy, though he had but little
hope of ever finding them. Old Richard had enough money to buy the duke a horse; so the father
mounted the horse, and took his little daughter on the saddle with him. They travelled over
the mountains and through the vales, asking, whenever they met any person, to tell them if
they knew of any strangers in that section of the country. But nobody gave any information.

Old Richard was yet with them, for he had still enough money left to buy a mule, and he rode
beside his good master and Lillie until the 17th of July arrived, and that was Lillie's birthday.
The duke determined that they three should stop and celebrate it by taking a little rest and
a good meal in a cottage by the wayside. Having finished their dinner, they went out of doors
and looked about the beautiful yard, which was all blooming with flowers.

Lillie was astounded at again hearing that sweet melody, and she exclaimed,--

"Father, father! that is the very tune which we were singing together the night that you were
arrested."

The little bird went over it two or three times, and the father said,--

"You are right, my dear child. That is the melody--not a note is wanting. This is truly wonderful.
I do believe that this bird has been taught to sing that song by Carl and your good mother.
O, Richard, can you not find out how this bird came here?"

Richard said in reply,--

"I will do all I can, but I am afraid that it will be very difficult."

He made inquiries of the man who owned the bird, and who had furnished them with the dinner,
as to where the bird came from. The Tyrolese replied,--

"I don't know where it came from, except that a young man who passed along the road, and who
lives about three miles from here, sold it to me for a trifling sum one day. I was pleased
with its appearance, because it was a beautiful bird, and the price was very low."

Then Richard said,--

"Can you not see that young man, and find out where he got it from?"

"I will do so if you wish," he answered.

Richard then told him to report as soon as possible what he had learned.

That afternoon, about five o'clock, the young man was brought to Richard and the duke, and
inquiries were made as to where he got the bird. He said that he did not know where it came
from exactly, except that it was found one day after it had escaped from somebody's cage. He
did not know who owned it, or else he would have taken it to its owner.

"Where was it you found it?" said the duke.

"About ten miles from here, when I was going to see my mother, who lives a great many miles away."

"Do you know whether any strangers are in that neighborhood?" asked the duke.

"I heard my mother say that there were a lady and a little boy living some three miles the
other side of her house, and that she was a very good woman."

"Did you ever see the boy yourself?" inquired the duke.

"Yes, I saw the boy going to school."

The duke, on making further inquiries as to his appearance, came to the conclusion that the
boy whom he had seen was probably none other than Carl. He accordingly made his arrangements
to go to the place of which the young man had spoken.

That night he reached the house where this good lady and her son were boarding. True enough,
the duke and little Lillie were in the presence of the duchess and Carl. It was a happy meeting,
far beyond my power to describe. Their gratitude to their heavenly Father for preserving them
to each other knew no bounds. It was an hour of such happiness as is seldom permitted any one
to enjoy.

They sat up late that night and recounted their experiences to each other, and then the duke
revealed the secret of his coming to that house; that it was a canary bird which had been the
instrument of his finding her and Carl. They spent a few days in great happiness there, and
made a bargain with the man who owned the canary bird which had escaped from Carl's cage to
get it back again.

Two years passed on, and peace and quiet were again restored to France. The duke and his family
were permitted to return to his castle, and the government made him ample reparation for all
the losses that he had incurred. They took with them their little canary bird, which had lost
none of its sweet notes by the lapse of time.

One day a magnificent new piano arrived from Paris, and after tea the duke said,--

"Now we will try the piano in our own quiet home. What shall we sing?" asked he.

THE SHEEP AND THE GOAT.

    Not all the streets that London builds
      Can hide the sky and sun,
    Shut out the winds from o'er the fields,
    Or quench the scent the hay swath yields
      All night, when work is done.

    And here and there an open spot
      Lies bare to light and dark,
    Where grass receives the wanderer hot,
    Where trees are growing, houses not;
      One is the Regent's Park.

    Soft creatures, with ungentle guides,
      God's sheep from hill and plain,
    Are gathered here in living tides,
    Lie wearily on woolly sides,
      Or crop the grass amain.

    And from the lane, and court, and den,
      In ragged skirts and coats,
    Come hither tiny sons of men,
    Wild things, untaught of book or pen,
      The little human goats.

    One hot and cloudless summer day,
      An overdriven sheep
    Had come a long and dusty way;
    Throbbing with thirst the creature lay,
      A panting, woollen heap.

    But help is nearer than we know
      For ills of every name;
    Ragged enough to scare the crow,
    But with a heart to pity woe,
      A quick-eyed urchin came.

    Little he knew of field or fold,
      Yet knew enough; his cap
    Was just the cap for water cold--
    He knew what it could do of old;
      Its rents were few, good hap!

    Shaping the brim and crown he went,
      Till crown from brim was deep.
    The water ran from brim and rent;
    Before he came the half was spent--
      The half, it saved the sheep.

    O, little goat, born, bred in ill,
      Unwashed, ill-fed, unshorn!
    Thou meet'st the sheep from breezy hill,
    Apostle of thy Saviour's will,
      In London wastes forlorn.

    Let others say the thing they please,
      My faith, though very dim,
    Thinks He will say who always sees,
    In doing it to one of these
      Thou didst it unto him.

FROM BAD TO WORSE.

    Come, children, leave your playing,
      And gather round my knee,
    And I'll tell you a little story:
      Away across the sea,
    In a meadow where the mosses
      And the grass were frozen brown,
    Three little maids sat milking
      One day as the sun went down--
    Not cows, but goats of the mountain;
      And before their pails were full,
    The winds, they pierced like needles
      Through their gowns of heavy wool.
    And as one hand, then the other,
      They tried to warm in their laps,
    The bitter weather froze their breath
      Like fur about their caps.
    And so, as they sat at their milking,
      They grew as still as mice,
    Save when the stiff shoes on their feet
      Rattled like shoes of ice.

    At last out spoke the youngest
      As she blew on her finger-nails:
    I have planned a plan, sweet sisters:
      Let us take our milking-pails,
    And go to the side of the mountain
      As fast as we can go,
    And heap them up to the very top
      From the whitest drifts of snow;
    And let us build in the meadow
      Where we will milk our goats at night
    A house to keep us from the cold,
      With walls all silver white.

    We will set the door away from the wind.
      The floor we will heap with moss,
    And gather little strips of ice
      And shingle the roof across.

    Then all the foolish maidens,
      They emptied their pails on the ground,
    And bounded up the mountain-side
      As fast as they could bound,
    And came again to the meadow
      With pails heaped high with snow,
    And so, through half the night, the moon
      Beheld them come and go.

    But when with the daybreak roses
      The silver walls shone red,
    The three little foolish maidens
      Were lying cold and dead.
    The needles of the frost had sewed
      Into shrouds their woollen coats,
    And with cheeks as white as the ice they lay
      Among their mountain goats.

                               ALICE CARY.

MY STORY.

Many years ago, when the sky was as clear, the flowers as fragrant, and the birds as musical
as now, I stood by a little mahogany table, with pencil and paper in hand, vainly trying to
add a short column of figures. My small tin box, with the word Bank in large letters upon it,
had just been opened, and the carefully hoarded treasure of six months was spread out before
me. Scrip had not come into use then; and there were one tiny gold piece, two silver dollars,
and many quarters, dimes, half-dimes, and pennies. For a full half hour I had been counting
my fingers and trying to reckon up how much it all amounted to; but the problem was too hard
for me. At last I took pencil and paper, and sought to work it out by figures.

"What are you doing, Gracie?" pleasantly inquired my father, entering the room with an open
letter in his hand.

"O, papa! is that you?" I cried, eagerly turning towards him. "Just look--see how much money
I've got! John has just opened my bank. It is six months to-day since I began to save, and
I've more than I expected."

"Yes, you are quite rich."

"So much that I can't even count it. I've done harder sums in addition at school; but somehow,
now, every time I add, I get a different answer. I can't make it come out twice alike."

"Where did you get that gold piece?"

"Why, don't you know? You gave it to me for letting Dr. Strong pull out my big back tooth."

Father laughed.

"Did I?" said he; "I had forgotten it. But where did you get those two silver dollars?" he
inquired.

"O, grandmother gave me this one. It's chicken money. She gave it to me for feeding the chickens
every morning all the while I staid there; and the other is hat money. Aunt Ellen told me if
I'd wear my hat always when I went out in the sun, and so keep from getting sun-burned, that
she would give me another dollar; and she did."

"Where did the remainder come from?"

"Mostly from you, papa. You are always giving me money. These two bright, new quarters you
gave me when you looked over my writing-book, and saw it hadn't a blot. How much is there in
all?" I earnestly asked.

Father glanced at the little pile, and smilingly said,--

"Seven dollars and ten cents. That's a good deal of money for a little girl only nine years
old to spend."

"And may I spend it just as I please?"

"Certainly, my dear; just as you please. It's a great thing for little people to learn to spend
money wisely."

Saying this, he seated himself by the window, and drawing me towards him, placed me upon one knee.

"Gracie, dear, I have just received a letter from grandmother. She proposes that I come to
Vermont and bring you; that I remain as long as business will admit, and leave you to pass
the summer just as you did last year. How would that suit?" fixing his kind dark eyes full
upon my upturned face to read my changing thoughts.

"O, I should like it very much!" I quickly exclaimed, clapping my hands with delight. Then
I reflected a moment, and a shadow fell over my prospective happiness.

"On the whole, papa," I said, earnestly, "I think I had better go, and not stay any longer
than you can stay. I am all the little girl you have, and you are all the parent I have, and
we should be very lonely without each other."

I felt his warm, loving kiss upon my cheek as he folded me to his heart, and a tear fell on
my forehead. For two years I had been motherless; but a double portion of pity and tenderness
had been lavished upon me by my indulgent father. He was a New York merchant of ample means.
Our home was elegant and tasteful.

The home of my father's only surviving parent, my doting grandmother, whom we were designing
to visit, was a plain, unpretending farm-house, snuggly nestled up among the hills of Vermont.
There were tall poplar trees and a flower-garden in front, a little orchard and a whole row
of nice looking out-buildings in the rear. There was no place on earth so full of joy for me.
The swallows' nests on the barn; the turkeys, geese, and chickens; the colt, lambs, and little
pigs; in short, everything had an ever-increasing attraction, far exceeding any pleasures to
be found within the limits of the crowded city.

The prospect of another visit to Woodville filled my heart with intense delight.

A week passed, and on one of the sunniest and freshest of June mornings we started for Vermont.
I was exceedingly fond of travelling in the cars, and it seemed as if a thousand sunbeams had
suddenly fallen upon my young life. The train left New York, and we found ourselves rapidly
whirling past hills, forests, towns, and villages. Sometimes we were flying through dark, deep
cuts, then crossing streams and rich green fields and meadows.

We expected to reach grandmother's that evening. I had written to inform her of our coming.
One hour after another passed. The day was declining, and the sun was slowly sinking in the west.

"How much longer have we to go?" was the question I had asked for the fiftieth time at least.

"About another hour's ride, Gracie," smilingly answered my father. "I think we shall reach
Woodville about eight."

The cars continued to hurry on till we were within a few rods of the station.

The bell was ringing its usual warning, and the bell from a train from behind was beginning
to be heard. We had commenced to switch off, to allow the express train to pass. But by some
carelessness or miscalculation our train was a minute too late. Father and I were comfortably
occupying one of the front seats of the rear car; and I was in a state of impatient excitement
to reach our destination. But there came, in an instant, a stunning, frightful crash; and I
was thrown violently forward. What followed for the next ten minutes I do not know.

I think I must have been in a semi-unconscious state, for I have a dim recollection of strange
sounds, confusion, anxiety, and terror. Strong hands seemed to pull me out from under a heavy
weight, and gently lay me down. I felt dizzy and faint. I opened my eyes, and light came gradually
to my darkened vision. A gentleman stood over me with his fingers upon my wrist. A kind, sunny-faced
old lady was wetting my head.

"Are you much hurt?" she tenderly inquired, gazing upon me in undisguised anxiety.

"What's the matter? Where am I?" I cried, springing up and gazing wildly around.

In a moment my eye caught sight of the broken rear car. There were several wounded and bleeding
people about me. I saw the front cars emptied of passengers, who were actively employed in
caring for the injured. I comprehended in an instant that there had been an accident.

"My father! my father!" I cried.

"You shall see him soon," soothingly answered the gentleman by my side. "Drink this;" and he
held to my mouth a glass of something pleasant and pungent. I drank its entire contents. I
think it helped to quite restore me. I ran wildly about in search of my missing parent. There
was a little group of men and women a short distance off. I hurried towards it, and recognized
Peter, my grandmother's man, who had come to meet us at the station.

"Where is my father?" I said in a voice hardly audible from terror, seizing Peter's arm.

Before he could reply, I saw father, white and motionless, upon the ground.

"He is dead!" I shrieked, springing towards him, and convulsively throwing my arms about him.

"He is stunned, not dead, my child," said the physician, kindly drawing me away, to minister
to him. "We hope he will soon be better."

In spite of his soothing words and tones, I read the truth in his face; that he feared life
was almost extinct.

"O, what can I do? Save him! save him! You must not let him die! you must not!"

"My poor child, I will do all I can," replied the physician, touched by my distress.

But no efforts to restore my father to consciousness availed anything. There was a deep, ugly
cut on one side of his head. No other external injury could be found; yet he had not spoken
or moved since he was taken out from the broken car.

The accident had occurred but a few rods from the station; and as grandmother's house was scarcely
a mile distant, Peter strongly urged that he should be taken there at once. Accordingly a wagon
was procured. The seats were taken out, and a mattress placed upon the bottom, and father was
carefully laid upon it; and Peter drove rapidly home, while I followed with the doctor in his
buggy. A man had been sent in advance of us to inform grandmother of our coming. She met us
at the door with a pallid face, but was so outwardly calm, that I took courage from beholding her.

Father was laid upon a nice, white bed, in a little room on the ground floor; and again every
means for restoring him was resorted to. Still he remained unconscious.

The hours went on. The old family clock had just struck two, and we were watching and working
in an agony of suspense.

I had not left my father's bedside, till the low, indistinct conversation between the doctor
and grandmother, in the next room, fell upon my ear.

"There is life yet," said he. "I thought once he had ceased to breathe."

"And you are quite sure he does?" she inquired.

"Yes. I held a small mirror over his face; and the mist that gathered upon it proves there
is still faint breathing."

I shuddered and ran out to them.

"You think he will die!" I cried, seizing grandmother's hand with desperate energy.

"I cannot tell, dear Gracie. His life, like yours and mine, is in the hands of God. We cannot
foresee his purposes. We can only submit to his will."

Saying this, she returned with the doctor to the sick room, and I was left alone.

The prospect of being deprived of my only surviving parent almost paralyzed me. I looked out
of the open window. It was a calm, clear summer night. The moon shone out in all its glory
and brilliancy, and the stars twinkled as cheerily as though there was no sorrow, suffering,
or death in the world.

I sprang towards the door and closed it, and then threw myself upon my knees, and poured out
my great anguish into the pitying ear of the heavenly Father.

"O, good, kind Father in heaven, do hear and quickly answer me. Do save my own dear papa from
death. Mother, Bessie, and little Fred have all gone to live with thee; and he is all I have
left. Do, I entreat thee, help him to get well; I will be more kind, and generous, and obedient
than I have ever been before, and will try to please thee as long as I live."

I arose comforted and strengthened. Returning to my father's room, I saw the doctor with his
fingers upon his wrist again.

"A faint pulse," he said, turning towards grandmother.

Another hour passed. The breath was perceptible now, and the doctor looked more hopefully.

Morning came, and the glad sunlight streamed in through the windows. Father remained in a deep
stupor, but manifested more signs of life than at any time since the accident. He had moved
slightly several times, and as the hours went on his breathing became more natural and regular.

Suddenly he opened his eyes and gazed feebly around.

"Father, dear father, are you better?" I cried in a choking voice.

He smiled faintly, then closed his eyes again, and sank into a sweet, refreshing slumber.

Another day came, bringing joy immeasurable to all of us. Father was conscious and rallying
fast, and before night the doctor assured us all danger was past. The weeks went on.

June went out and July came in. We had been nearly a month in Woodville; and how different
my visit had resulted from the season of perfect happiness I had so ardently anticipated!

Father was gradually regaining his former health; and although the wound on his head was but
partially healed, he was pronounced doing admirably by the attentive physician.

He was now able to go out, and we took many long rides together, keenly enjoying the beautiful
scenery and the pure air. As strength increased, the necessity of returning to his business
pressed upon my father, and the first week in September was appointed for our departure.

On the last Sunday of our sojourn in Woodville, grandmother and I went in the morning to church.
There had just been a fearfully destructive fire in one of the neighboring towns, and a large
number of people were homeless. The minister announced that at the close of the afternoon service,
a collection would be taken up for the sufferers, and he strongly urged a generous contribution
from his parishioners.

I had hitherto paid little heed, when in church, to what the minister said; but since the dreadful
accident and father's almost miraculous recovery, I had been far more thoughtful and attentive
than formerly. My heart went out in deep sympathy and pity for the poor men, women, and children
who were made houseless in a single night, and I ardently longed to do the little in my power
to relieve them.

So, during the intermission between the services, I took out the money I had brought with me,
and which father had told me I was free to spend as I pleased. I tied it up in my handkerchief.
There was too much for my pocket-book to conveniently hold, for it was all of the carefully
hoarded treasure of my bank. It was my design to put it into the contribution-box.

Grandmother did not go to church in the afternoon; but father decided to go, and I accompanied
him. After the services were over, two men arose and began to pass round the boxes to collect
money for the people whose homes had been burned. As I beheld one of them coming slowly up
the aisle, stopping at every pew, I was in a flutter of excitement. It was a novel thing for
me to put money into the contribution-box, and my heart beat violently.

I drew out my handkerchief from my pocket, and hurriedly began to untie the knot. But my usually
nimble fingers were provokingly slow to act now; and I pulled and pulled away, but to no purpose.
The knot obstinately refused to yield. The man with the box had nearly reached our pew, and
I began to fear I should lose the chance to give.

"Don't let him slip by me," I whispered so loudly to father as to cause at least a dozen persons
in the adjacent seats to stare wonderingly at me. "I've something to put in."

Another prodigious effort, and the knot yielded.

The man passed the box first to father, and he put in a bill. He glanced at me, evidently thinking
a child would hardly have money to give, and was about to go on; but I looked beseechingly
towards him, and he stopped and extended the box to me. In an instant the entire contents of
my handkerchief were emptied into it--as much money as my two chubby hands could hold.

Father looked down upon me, and a half-amused smile flitted over his face, as he beheld my
unexpected act.

After we had returned home, father sat down by the window in an easy chair, and calling me
to him, placed me upon his knee.

"Gracie, dear," said he, smilingly, "tell me how it happened you put so much money into the
contribution-box. It must have taken nearly all you had."

"It was all I had, papa. It was the money I saved in my bank, and you told me I could spend
it just as I pleased."

"O, yes, dear; I am glad to have you; only it was a good deal for a little girl."

"I gave it because I wanted to please God," I replied with earnest solemnity. "That dreadful
night, when we all thought you would die, dear papa, I promised God I would be a better girl
than I have ever been before. I would be more kind, generous, and obedient, and would try and
please him all my life, if he would only let you get well; and I gave my money to-day because
I am so glad and grateful to him."

"Precious child," said he tenderly and with much emotion, drawing me close to him, "and I am
glad, and grateful too, for the rich gift of my dear little daughter."

                                           SARAH P. BRIGHAM.

THE WAY TO WALK.

    As I tramped over a stony path,
      One cloudy morning early,
    I learned the only way to step,
      To keep from being surly.

    Don't hurry, and stride, and come down hard
      Upon the rolling pebbles,
    But lightly step; and that's the way
      To charm all kinds of rebels.

    Don't hurry, and stride, and come down hard,
      Even on troublesome people;
    But carry your feet, and tread on air,
      As though you lived on a steeple.

    There are rolling stones in every path,
      And rocks with jagged edges,
    Which, if we gently touch, may turn
      To flowers and bending sedges.

                                  M. R. W.

[Decoration]

CAMELS.

The Bactrian camel may be at once known by the two humps upon its back, which give the animal
a most singular appearance.

This species is a native of Central Asia, China, and Thibet, and is generally as useful in
those countries as is the dromedary in Arabia, being employed for the saddle, for draught,
and burden. It is, however, chiefly employed for the second of those purposes, and is of the
greatest service to its owners.

The vehicle to which this camel is generally harnessed is a rude cart of wood, ingeniously
put together, without a particle of iron, and, after the fashion of such structures, shrieking,
creaking, and groaning as the wheels turn on their roughly-made and ungreased axle. The drivers,
however, care nothing for the hideous and incessant noise, and probably are so accustomed to
it, that they would not feel at home with a cart whose wheels moved silently. The mode of harnessing
is precisely that which so simple a vehicle requires. From the front of the cart projects a
pole, and to this pole are hitched a pair of camels by a yoke that passes over their shoulders.
In fact, the entire harness is nothing more than a wooden yoke and a leathern strap.

In spite, however, of the rude machine to which they are attached, and the great loss of power
by the friction of the badly-fitted wheels, the animals can draw very heavy weights for considerable
distances. A burden of three thousand pounds' weight is an ordinary load for a pair of camels,
and a peculiarly strong yoke of these animals will draw nearly four thousand pounds' weight.
This camel is commonly yoked in pairs.

For the plough the camel is never employed, not because it is not sufficiently strong for the
task, but because it does not pull with the steadiness needed to drag the ploughshare regularly
through the ground.

Sometimes, however, the Bactrian camel is employed as a beast of burden, the bales being slung
at each side, and the water-skins suspended below the belly. When the animal is employed for
this purpose, a kind of pack-saddle is used, somewhat similar in shape to that which has already
been described in the history of the one-humped camel, but necessarily modified in its structure.
The owner of the camel takes great care not to overload his animal, as he is afraid of injuring
the humps, and thereby detracting from the value of the camel.

In Persia the camel is employed for a very singular purpose. There was, and may be now, a corps
of the army which is called the camel artillery. It consisted of a number of camels, each fitted
with a peculiar saddle, which not only accommodated the rider, but carried a swivel-gun of
about one pound calibre. These weapons had a greater range than the ordinary Persian matchlocks,
and, owing to the rapidity with which they could be transferred from spot to spot, formed a
valuable branch of the artillery.

When the enemy saw that a detachment of the camel artillery was about to attack them, their
usual device was to reach such a position as to force the camels to traverse wet and muddy
ground, in which they were sure to slip about, to lose all command over their limbs, and sometimes
to lame themselves completely by the hind legs slipping apart.

Camels were especially serviceable for this purpose, because they are wonderfully sure-footed
when the ground is dry, almost rivalling the mule in the certainty of the tread. The Arabian
camel is notable for his sure tread, but the Bactrian species is still more remarkable in this
respect. Owing, in all probability, to the elongated toe, which projects beyond the foot, and
forms a kind of claw, the Bactrian camel can climb mountain passes with perfect security, and
in consequence of this ability is sometimes called the mountain camel.

It is as serviceable in winter as in summer. The soft, cushion-like feet, which slide about
so helplessly in mud, take a firm hold of ice, and enable their owner to traverse a frozen
surface with easy security. In snow, too, the Bactrian camel is equally at home; and the Calmucks
would rather ride a camel than a horse in the winter, because the longer legs of the former
animal enable it to wade through the deep snow, in which a horse could only plunge about without
finding a foothold. No greater proof of the extreme utility of this animal can be adduced than
the fact that a body of two thousand camels were employed in conducting a military train over
the "snow-clad summits of the Indian Caucasus" in winter time, and that throughout the space
of seven months only one camel died, having been accidentally killed.

Although the camel has so strong an objection to mud, it has none to water, and will wade across
a river without hesitation. It can even swim well when the water is too deep to be forded;
but it does not appear to have much power of directing its course, or of propelling itself
through the water with much force. Indeed, it may rather be said to float than to swim.

In point of speed it cannot approach the Arabian dromedary, although it is little inferior
to the ordinary camel of burden. About two and a half miles per hour is the average pace at
which a pair of Bactrian camels will draw a load, varying in weight from three to four thousand
pounds; and if they travel over a well-made road, they can do their thirty miles a day for
many successive days. In countries, therefore, which are adapted to its habits, the camel is
far superior to any other beast of burden, whether for draught or carriage.

One great advantage of the camel is, that its feet are so tough, that they can pass over rough
and stony places without suffering, and that therefore the animal does not require the aid
of shoes. In an ordinary march, the constant attention to the shoeing of horses and cattle
entails great labor, much watchfulness, and often causes considerable delay, so that the peculiar
formation of the camel's foot, which neither requires nor admits of an iron shoe, is of exceeding
value in a forced march. In some places a leathern shoe is fixed to the camel's foot, but is
really of little use.

The very worst time for the Bactrian camel is the beginning and end of winter, when frost and
thaw occur alternately. At such times of the year the snow falls thickly, is partially melted
in the daytime, and at night freezes on the surface into a thin cake of ice. Through this crust
the feet of the camel break, and the animal cuts its legs cruelly with the sharp edges of the
broken ice.

For the cold weather itself this species of camel cares little, passing its whole time in the
open air, and feeding on the grass when it is caked with the ice formed from the dew. Indeed,
it bears a severe winter better than either horse, ox, or sheep, and has been observed to feed
with apparent comfort when the thermometer had sunk many degrees below zero. In some places--such
as the country about Lake Baikal--the camel is partially sheltered from the cold by a thick
woollen cloth, which is sewn over its body; but even in such cases its owners do not trouble
themselves to furnish it with food, leaving it to forage for itself among shrubs and trees
of higher ground, or among the reeds and rushes that grow on marshy land and the banks of rivers.

Almost the only disease among the Bactrian camels is an affection of the tongue, which is covered
with blisters, so that the poor animal cannot eat, and dies from starvation.

The fleece of the Bactrian camel ought to weigh about ten pounds, and is used for making a
coarse and strong cloth. In the summer time the hair becomes loose, and is easily plucked off
by hand, just as sheep used to be "rowed" before shears were employed in removing the wool.
The camel in the Zoölogical Gardens may be seen in the summer time in a very ragged state,
its fleece hanging in bunches in some parts of the body, while others are quite bare. The price
of the wool is about six cents a pound.

The skin is used for making straps, ropes, and thongs, and is seldom tanned. It is thought
to be inferior to that of the ox, and is in consequence sold at a comparatively cheap rate,
an entire hide only fetching about two dollars. The milk is used for food, but is produced
in very small quantities, the average yield being only half a gallon. The flesh is eaten, and
when the animal is fat is tolerably tender, and is thought to resemble beef. If, however, it
be in poor condition, the meat is so tough and ill-flavored, that none but hungry men, armed
with good teeth, can eat it. The price of a good Bactrian camel is about fifty dollars.

The weight of a full-grown animal is about one third more than that of the average ox--that
is to say, about twelve hundred pounds. The average height is seven or eight feet, and the
animal generally lives about thirty-five or forty years.

Dissimilar in external appearance as are the Bactrian and Arabian camels, their skeletons are
so alike, that none but a skilful anatomist can decide upon the species to which a skeleton
has belonged. The legs of the Bactrian species are rather shorter in proportion than those
of the Arabian animal, and in them lies the chief distinction of the two species. Indeed, many
naturalists deny that there is any real difference of species, and assert that the two animals
are simply two varieties of the same species.

The specimen in the Zoölogical Gardens is called "Jenny" by the keeper, and has rather a curious
history, being associated with one of the great events of the present century. During the late
Russian war her mother was taken from the enemy in the Crimea, and was unfortunately killed.
The deserted little one ran about among the soldiers, and was adopted by the corps of Royal
Engineers, who towards the end of 1856 presented her to the Zoölogical Society. Both the camels
are fed upon the same diet, and eat about the same quantity.

                                                 J. G. WOOD.

WHAT SO SWEET?

    What so sweet as summer,
      When the sky is blue,
    And the sunbeams' arrows
      Pierce the green earth through?

    What so sweet as birds are,
      Putting into trills
    The perfume of the wild-rose,
      The murmur of the rills?

    What so sweet as flowers,
      Clovers white and red,
    Where the brown bee-chemist
      Finds its daily bread?

    What so sweet as sun-showers,
      When the big cloud passes,
    And the fairy rainbow
      Seems to touch the grasses?

    What so sweet as winds are,
      Blowing from the woods,
    Hinting in their music
      Of dreamy solitudes?

    Rain, and song, and flower,
      When the summer's shine
    Makes the green earth's beauty
      Seem a thing divine.

                         MARY N. PRESCOTT.

THORNS.

"Deepdale is a delightful place to visit." So thought little Nellie Harris when she went there
to see Cousin Rose. All day long they wandered over the farm with Uncle John, first to feed
the chickens, then to the well so dark and deep Nellie shuddered when she looked far, far down
into it, and held tight to Rose for fear of falling. Uncle John turned the windlass to let
Rose and Nellie see the bucket rise all dripping from its watery bed.

One morning after Nellie's return to the city, Rose was walking alone in the garden.

The flowers were charming, for the dew was not yet off their delicate petals; and they were
so fragrant that little Rose's nose was put close up to a great many, to find which it was
that smelled so very sweetly. First she was sure it was a great cabbage-rose that nodded at
her from its stalk, but soon after she was surer that it was a little bed of pansies, or "Johnny-jump-ups,"
which turned all their bright little faces to the sun, like a family of newly-washed and clean-aproned
children just starting for school. Soon, however, she was surest that it was a patch of mignonette
under the pear tree, which, though it looked so plain and humble with its little bits of blossoms,
was pouring out the richest perfume.

"Oh, it is you, is it?" said little Rose. "Mamma read to us yesterday that perfume was the
soul of flowers. I guess you have got the biggest soul of them all, if you are so little."

Pretty soon Rose began to think of something more substantial than bird-songs, sunbeams and
flowers. There were very nice raspberries, red and ripe, over beyond the currant-bushes, and
her mamma allowed her to pick them in that part of the garden, for she knew how delightful
it is for little folks to eat their fruit just where they pick it from the bushes.

Little Rose went around into the lower walk, where she could see the raspberries. A good many
had ripened over-night, and hung on the long, waving stems, waiting to be picked.

There was a short way to them, right across between two great branching currant-bushes. She
saw it was guarded by long briar-stalks with sharp thorns all along their sides, but it was
so much nearer than to go around the long row of currants. "Mamma says we must not be afraid
of trials and discouragements in our way," Rose said. She was very fond of quoting things she
heard said or read, and applying them to her own experience.

"I guess I can get through. Little girls must be brave!" And she pushed boldly into the middle
of the space between the bushes. But there she caught fast, and could not go a step farther.
One great, strong branch of thorns was stretched across her foot, the sharp points sticking
fast in her stocking, and hurting her flesh cruelly if she tried to move it. Another one caught
hold of her little garden-shawl and pulled it away back off her shoulders. She pulled and twitched
with all her might, but could not get it loose. On the other side her little bare elbow was
torn and bleeding from a scratch, while her dress was held as fast as if a hundred invisible
hands were pulling at it. There she was. She could not get on nor back. There was nothing to
be done but to call for her mother. This she did so loudly that everybody in the house came
rushing to see what was the matter. Dolly and Hannah, leaving their dish-washing in the kitchen,
got there first, and setting to work soon had Rose out, but with scratched hands, arms and
feet and two great rents in her dress.

"How in the world did you come in there among the briars?" asked mamma, after they were in
the house again and Rose became comforted a little.

"It was the nearest way to the raspberries," she answered.

"The nearest? Yes; but not the best. It would have been far better to go around by the path."

"I heard you tell Cousin Lucy the other day that folks must never mind if there were thorns
in their way," said little Rose, almost sobbing again, for she had thought that at least her
mother would praise her courage and philosophy.

Her mother smiled, but presently looked grave.

"My darling," she said, "it is true we must not mind thorns if they are in the path of duty.
But when they grow in any other path, we have a right--indeed, we ought--to avoid them if we can."

"But wasn't I in the path of duty when I tried to get the raspberries, mamma? You said that
I might pick all that grew down there."

"You were not doing wrong in trying to get them."

"Isn't that the same as duty?"

"Not exactly. Would it have been wrong for you to do without them? Or would you have been to
blame for going by the path?"

"Oh no," said Rose; "it would not have been wrong, for nobody said I must get them, or that
I must go through the currant-bushes."

"Then you see it was not duty."

"Please tell me exactly what is meant by duty, mamma."

"Duty is not only something which we may do, it is something which we ought to do, and which
it would be wrong to neglect. It is not simply permission, but obligation. Is that plain?"

"Yes, mamma. I understand now. I was permitted to pick the berries, but I was not obliged to
do it or else do wrong. But if you had sent me to pick them for you, it would have been duty."

"And do you think that in that case it would be right to go through the thorns?"

"No, mamma; I see now. It is right to take the plainest, easiest way when we can."

"Yes, my dear. We must not be afraid of thorns if our path leads over them. But if we leave
the true path and foolishly try to push ourselves through unnecessary obstacles, it is not
bravery or fortitude, but vanity and silly rashness."

UNDER THE PEAR TREES.

    Under the pear trees one August day,
    In the long-ago and the far-away,
    Four little children rested from play,

    Cheering the hours with childish chat,
    Now laughing at this or shouting at that,
    Till a golden pear fell straight in Fred's hat.

    "I'm lucky," he cried as he hastened to eat
    The mellow pear so juicy and sweet;
    "If I tried for a week, that couldn't be beat."

    Then Tom and Jenny and Mary spread
    Their hats and aprons wide, and said,
    "We can catch pears as well as Fred."

    Then long and patient they sat, and still,
    Hoping a breeze from over the hill
    Their laps with the golden fruit would fill.

    Till, weary of waiting, Tom said with a sneer,
    "I could gather a bushel of pears, 'tis clear,
    While idly we wait for a windfall here."

    Then up the tree he sprang, and the power
    Of his sturdy arm soon sent a shower
    Of yellow fruit as a golden dower.

    It was long ago, that August day
    When four little children rested from play
    Under the pear trees far away.

    And the children, older and wiser now,
    With furrows of care on either brow,
    Have not forgotten the lesson, I trow--

    The lesson they learned on that August day,
    That for having our wishes the surest way
    Is to work, and in earnest, without delay.

THE CAVE OF BENTON'S RIDGE.

The cave was a large opening in a ledge of rocks, about half a mile from the village of M----,
and had for years been a favorite resort for the boys on the holidays.

'Twas at the close of school, on a bright June day, when, with a rush and a shout, out came
a bevy of boys from the school-house, and over the wall with a bound were half a dozen before
the rest had emerged from the open door. The first ones took their way across the fields to
the cave, and had thrown themselves down on the rock at the entrance, and were busily talking,
when the last comers arrived.

"We've planned to have a time Saturday; if Miss Walters will take the botany class for a walk,
we'll come here and have supper, and go home by moonlight," said Fred Manning. "How does that
strike you?"

"Count me in," said Phil Earle. "I second the motion," said Arthur Ames. "Where shall we go
to walk?" said another; "this is nearly far enough for some of the girls."

"Pooh! no! we can get some nice pitcher-plants, if we go to Eaton's meadows; we haven't been
there for ever so long," said Phil.

All agreed it would be fun, and Phil was deputized to ask Miss Walters, and with her complete
the arrangements.

"It's Thursday now; and I'll ask father if we can't have some of the hay they are making down
in the lower field, to put inside the cave; for we must fix up a little," said Arthur. Willie
Eaton said his mother would make them a jug of coffee; and as he lived near, he would run round
that way at noon, and put it in the spring, so as to have it nice and cool. For one of the
attractions of this place was a lovely spring, that bubbled and sparkled among the ferns, just
under the rock where the cave was.

Fred and Phil began to lay the stones for the fireplace; for though it was not cold on these
bright June nights, still a fire was one of the grand features of the occasion.

They all worked, some brushing out the cave with bushes, some getting old wood in piles to
burn, rolling stones for seats, etc., until it was time for them to go home, when, with merry
shouts, off they ran down the rock, and over the fields, home.

Next morning Phil called for Miss Walters, and on the way told her of the plans for Saturday,
into which she entered heartily, and wanted the boys to stay a few moments after the morning
session, to perfect the arrangements.

At recess she called the girls of the botany class to her, and said,--

"Girls, can you go on Saturday to walk? The boys have invited us to take supper at the cave."

"O, yes!" "O, yes!" "Yes, indeed!" "Splendid!" answered half a dozen voices.

"We will meet here at two o'clock; and you must dress for the meadows. I believe the boys are
mostly web-footed, by the way they take to such places; however, we do find the best specimens
there. Another thing--the boys are to furnish eggs and coffee, they say; and each of you can
bring what is most convenient."

Off went the girls, eager to plan and discuss the welcome project.

Saturday came--a bright, cloudless day. All were at the school-house at two, or before, and
set forth, looking like strollers, as they were.

They did not make many collections on the high land; but when they entered the meadows, they
soon found a variety of pretty grasses.

"Fudge!" said Ella Barton; "I'm not going to get any of that old hay--would you, Miss Walters?"

"No, certainly not, if I did not want the trouble of carrying it; but I think them very lovely
to put with branches of bayberry, as they form such a pretty contrast of color with the delicate
pearl-gray berries and brown branches; and if you add a few bunches of bright red arum berries,
you have a pretty, fadeless winter bouquet."

"Where can we get the bayberries?" said Fred, coming up.

"In most places near the salt water. In the town where my home is, there are acres and acres
of it; and may be at Thanksgiving time I can send you some to distribute, or, better still,
you might make up a party, and come down. I'll promise you a fine tramp, plenty of berries,
and perhaps my mother will let you taste of her Thanksgiving pies."

Off went Fred's hat high in the air. "Hurrah for the pie! I'll certainly go, if you'd like
to have me."

Miss Walters laughed, and said nothing would give her greater pleasure than to welcome the
whole party.

"O, Miss Walters, what's this lovely flower?" "Come here, come here!" "O, how lovely! here's
plenty more!" "And here, and here," were the exclamations of several of the advancing stragglers.

All who were with Miss Walters hastened forward; and there, in a wet, treacherous-looking place,
grew patches of a most delicate lilac-colored or light purple flower.

"O, that's Arethusa," said the teacher; "it is very beautiful." Rubber boots only can get at
them; and two or three boys soon returned with hands full, which they distributed. Miss Walters
said they could not stop to analyze any that day, but some of each kind must be put in the
botany box, for the class to work with at some future time. As they walked along, Miss Walters
told them that the flower was named after Arethusa of Grecian story, who was changed by Diana
into a fountain, to escape from the god of the river where she was one day surprised by him
while bathing.

They had not gone far when Phil and two of the girls came running up with hands full of the
Sarracenia, or pitcher-plant.

"What fine specimens!" said Miss Walters.

"O, I know where they grow!" said Phil. "I always go for them every year, just over that old
fence, in a boggy place. I like them better than almost any of the plants, they are so curious.
But where's a basket?"

"Here, Amy!" called Bessie White; "can't you let me put my small lunch in your big basket with
yours, and let Phil have mine for a specimen basket?"

This arrangement being satisfactorily made, they moved along, one of the girls telling the
new comers of the Arethusa and its name. And it was decided that all Miss Walters might tell
them concerning the flowers should be written down, for the benefit of all, as they were often
separated, searching for specimens.

In the next meadow they came upon beds of Menyanthes--an ugly name, and its common one of buck-bean
is not much better. They could find but few perfect specimens of the pretty white velvety flowers,
with their yellow and brown anthers, as it was rather late for them.

They found Pogonias and buds of Calopogon,--pretty pinkish flowers,--both of which Miss Walters
told them were closely related, and, indeed, belonged to the same family as the Arethusa. This
was the Orchid family, which contained a large number of beautiful but strange plants, about
a dozen of which were common in New England.

On the edge of an overgrown ditch near by they found very nice specimens of Andromeda.

"See," said Miss Walters, "how white and lovely these bells are, in spite of the cold wet places
where it is compelled to grow. It is named after Andromeda, famed in Grecian myths, a victim
to her mother's pride of beauty. Her mother had dared to compare herself to the sea nymphs,
for which they, enraged, sent a huge monster to ravage the coast. To appease the nymphs, her
father thought he must sacrifice his daughter; so he chained her to the water's edge; but as
the monster approached, Perseus, assisted by the gods, killed him, delivered Andromeda, and
afterwards married her."

The party now turned from the meadows on to higher ground. Houstonias and violets, with here
and there Potentilla, covered the ground, the last so called because it was supposed to be
powerful in medicine, potens, from which it is derived, meaning powerful.

The Saxifrage on the rocks, derived from Latin words, indicating its manner of growth.

Anemones, or wind flowers, were not entirely gone; so named because it was formerly thought
the flowers only opened when the wind blew.

Specimens multiplied. Each little group found something new.

Trilliums, remarkable for having leaves, sepals, petals, and seed-vessels in threes; Smilacina,
with its clean, green leaves, and white flowers, grew plentifully about them; Streptopus, meaning
twisted foot, called so because its foot, or pedicel, is twisted.

About five o'clock they began their homeward walk, which took them round through some grand
old pine woods. At last they came to their resting-place. All were more or less tired; and
glad were they when they saw the black mouth of the cave open invitingly before them. Some
threw themselves on the rock outside, some went in and rested on the fragrant hay that Arthur
had piled on the floor.

After resting a while in the cool shade, Phil said, "I have a bright thought that rhymes with
'light.'"

"Is it the opposite of 'loose'?"

"It is not 'tight.'"

"Is it what you are sometimes?"

"It is not 'bright.'"

"O, I meant a 'fright'!"

"Thank you; it is not 'fright.'"

"Is it what we are all wishing for?"

"It is a 'bite.'"

This was greeted with a shout, and committee number one, self-appointed, started for the baskets.
Others arranged the table with boards and rocks put outside the cave door. The eatables were
soon temptingly arranged. The jug of coffee and bottle of milk, with rubber mugs, were placed
under Arthur's care; and he soon had as much as he could do to pour the refreshing draughts.

The girls had little to do, the boys doing the honors in fine style. Very merry they grew over
the good things; and so intent were they trying to sell the last at auction, that they never
noticed a large cloud that had overspread the sky, until a few drops of rain fell upon the table.

"Here's a pretty go!" said Fred. "Run, Miss Walters; and, girls, get into the cave, and we'll
clear the tables."

Busy hands quickly disposed of all the articles to be kept dry, and the boys were glad to get
into the friendly shelter. Down came the rain, heavily rolled the thunder, and for a little
while the lightning was vivid. Soon the rain began to find its way into the cave.

"This will not do. Where's the table, Fred? We must have up a storm door," said Phil.

"All ready to slide right up," said Fred. "Arthur, will you get the chandelier ready? for it
will be rather dark when the door is up."

Arthur crept on his hands and knees to a little crevice in the inner part of the cave, and
drew out a tin box, with four holes in the cover. The girls gathered around, and were much
amused to see him take out his four candles. These he stuck into the holes of the box; and
lighting them, he placed them on a shelf prepared expressly for the occasion.

Never were boys and girls more happy. They were enjoying excitement without danger or discomfort.
They sang, played games; and when the rain had nearly ceased, some of the boys ran out and
lighted the fire. They had kept the wood dry. Then turning the table on its side, they put
out the candles, and had the full benefit of the fire-light. For a while conundrums were the
order of the day; then they drew lots to determine who should tell the first story. It fell
to Millie Gray, who, with timid modesty, demurred; but the penalty threatened for default was
so great, that though she had never told a story in her life, she thought she had better begin
now. Attentively they listened, waiting for her to begin. Presently she commenced.

"There was, once upon a time, a beautiful little girl, with blue eyes and golden hair."

"O," interrupted Fred, "can't we have this one with black eyes and red hair, or brown eyes;
I'm tired of blue eyes and yellow hair."

"No, no, no," said Arthur; "I like blue eyes. Go on, Millie." With a blush--for her own were
blue, and she knew what Arthur meant--she continued.

"Well, I like to oblige all parties," replied Millie. "Suppose we say her eyes were black and
blue; but if any one else interrupts, I'll have them committed for contempt of court, and they
shall be bound over to keep the peace."

"Which piece?" Fred was beginning to say, when Arthur jumped up and placed his hand over Fred's
mouth, saying, "Consider yourself bound over, sir."

"Well, this little girl lived in a deep forest, in a little bit of a house, with no one for
company but her grandmother and a little yellow dog.

"The grandmother was just as cross as she could be, and poor little--let's see, what shall
I call her?"

"Odahbeetoqua," suggested Fred. "I suppose she was descended from the Indians."

"Yes," said Millie, very seriously, "that was her name; but nobody called her by it all at
one time; they said Daisy, for short.

"Well, one day little Daisy felt so sad and lonely, and her grandmother had been so cross,
that she said to the little yellow dog,--

"'Tip, let's run away. I'm tired of staying here. Granny is so cross, I cannot stand it another
minute.'

"'Yes, indeed. I'll go with you, Daisy,' said Tip, wagging his tail; 'for this morning, when
I was licking up a bit of butter off the floor, she kicked me, and hit me over the head with
a broom, and threw a stick of wood after me as I indignantly left the premises, and wounded
my feelings very much.'

"'But then, Tip, suppose we should get lost in the woods, and die of starvation, and bears
should eat us up.'

"'Trust to me, Daisy,' Tip replied. 'I will lead you safely out of the wood, and see that nothing
hurts you.'

"Just then a woman came to the door, and said, 'I have heard your conversation. Come with me,
and you shall both live in a nice house, where you can play all day, and have fine clothes,
and plenty to eat.'

"'Ah, wouldn't that be pleasant!' said Daisy; and she was just preparing to go with the woman,
when she stopped suddenly, and said, 'But who will get wood for granny's fire? and who will
pick berries for her? She'd die if we should leave her alone. No, I can't leave her. She's
very cross; but then, she is sick all the time, nearly, and I won't go.'

"'O, yes, do!' said the woman. 'I have a lovely white pony, as gentle as a kitten, that you
shall have to ride, and beautiful dresses. You'd better come.'

"'Thank you,' said Daisy; 'I'd like to go with you. You may take Tip. Perhaps he'd like to
go, but I won't leave grandmother; she'd die if I did.'

"No sooner had Daisy finished speaking, than the woman turned into a beautiful fairy, the shanty
turned into a palace, granny turned into a queen, Daisy into a lovely princess, with black
and blue--I mean heavenly--eyes, and Tip turned into a beautiful prince, all dressed in embroidered
green velvet; and down on his knees he fell at the princess's feet, vowing love and fidelity
untold.

"The fairy spread her wings over the young couple, saying, 'Behold the reward of unselfishness!'
and vanished, leaving them in all their bliss."

Millie's story was greeted with shouts of applause and flattering comments.

The boys were about renewing the fire, when Miss Walters announced that it was seven o'clock.

"O, don't go yet!" shouted Phil from the wood-pile. "We've wood enough for an hour yet. Seven
o'clock's awful early."

"Don't go, don't go!" came from a chorus of voices; and Miss Walters, who only cared for their
comfort, said she would stay if that was the general wish, or would go with any of the girls
that were in haste to get home. No one made any movement to go, and she was quietly led back
to her throne on the hay, at the entrance of the cave.

A song was proposed, and Miss W. led them in the sweet words of "In the Beauty of the Lilies,"
the boys coming out strong with the chorus. Then two girls sang a duet very sweetly. Another
hour glided swiftly away, when Miss Walters said, "Phil, your fire burns low; push the blazing
ends for a final blaze, so we may get all our things; for we must go now."

Everything arranged, they bade good by to the hospitable cave, then marched down the hill,
the boys whistling "When Johnny comes marching Home."

On they trudged, dropping various members of their little party as they turned off to go to
their homes. All agreed they had had a delightful day.

                                                    F. E. S.

THE HAUNTS OF WILD BEASTS.

In crossing the forests which lie about that singular system of ponds and lakes that occupy
the northern interior of the State of Maine, the tourist and hunter will often come upon well-beaten
paths, running through the woods, trodden hard, as if by the passage of myriads of feet; and
this in a region rarely, or never, entered by man. They are the paths of wild beasts--bears,
lynxes, wildcats, the moose, and the carribou,--along which they pass from lake to lake, in
pursuit of their food, or upon hostile forays. When two lakes adjoin each other, with no more
than a mile or half a mile of forest between them, there will nearly always be found, across
the narrowest part of the isthmus, a path of this sort, more or less worn, according as the
locality abounds with game, or the lakes with fish.

One of the widest and most used of these that I have ever seen, led from the bank of Moose
River up to the low shores of Holeb Pond, in one of the not yet numbered townships near the
Canada line--so near that the high, dingy summit of the "Hog's Back" was plainly visible to
the north-westward. Starting out from between two large boulders on the stream, which at this
point is broken by rips, it runs crooking and turning amid clumps of hazel and alder, till
lost to view in a wide flat, covered with "high bush" cranberries, but lost to sight only,
however; for its tortuous course still continues beneath the thick shrubs, until at a distance
of two hundred rods it emerges on the pond.

Happening to cross it a year ago last autumn, in company with Rod Nichols (my comrade on these
tramps), the idea suggested itself that a good thing might perhaps be done by setting our traps
along the path. For where there were so many passing feet, some of them might without doubt
be entrapped.

Rod thought it was the "beat" of some bears, or "lucivees," while I inclined to the opinion
that otters or "fishers" had made it.

So we brought up our traps,--half a dozen small ones, which we used for sable and otter--from
the dug-out (canoe) down on the stream, and during the following afternoon set them at different
points in the path, between the border of the cranberry flat and the river. Then drawing our
canoe up out of the water, we encamped on the stream about a mile below the path, and waited
for the game.

Our stock of deer meat had got out. We had to content ourselves, both for supper and breakfast,
the following morning, with a couple of hares--lean as usual. Who ever saw a fat hare?

Old hunters are always telling the young sportsman about the marvellous properties of shaving-soap
made from hare's tallow and cedar ashes. The flesh has about as much taste and nutrition in
it as--so much paper pulp, for want of a better comparison to express its utter lack of flavor.
But during the forenoon we managed to shoot four partridges. These we first parboiled in our
camp kettle, then broiled on coals. They made us a comfortable dinner; and towards sunset we
again paddled up the stream, to visit the traps.

Coming near where the path strikes out from the river, we drew up the dug-out, and followed
in to the place where we had set the first trap. It was gone; but the grass about the spot
was beaten down, and the bushes broken. And on looking around, we discovered a trail leading
off through the weeds. Following this for ten or a dozen rods, we came to a large, rough stone;
and near it lay the trap, shattered and bent, with the springs broken, and the jaws gaping
and powerless. The stone, too, looked newly scratched, as if from heavy blows. The trap had
evidently been beaten upon.

"Some large animal," said I.

"Bear, probably," said Rod. "They will frequently smash up a small trap to get it off their feet."

Whatever it was, the creature had freed himself and gone. Rod picked up the broken trap, and
we went back, and on to the next.

This one was just as we had placed it--not sprung. So we kept on to the third, which was sprung,
but empty, with little clots of hair clinging to the teeth. The hair looked like that of a
sable; but he, too, had escaped.

The fourth was sprung and drawn out of the path. We crept cautiously up, and lo! we had a contemptible
little musquash (muskrat)--skin not worth a shilling. He was busy as a bee gnawing at his leg.
In a few minutes more he would have been at liberty--minus a foot. If left any length of time
after being caught, they will frequently gnaw off the leg in the trap. For this reason, those
who make a business of trapping them set their traps under water, well weighted. They will
then drown in a few moments, and may thus be secured.

The last two traps were not sprung.

"A big thing this!" muttered Rod. "Had our labor for our pains. Too bad."

We were near the edge of the cranberry flat; and just as Rod was bemoaning our poor luck, a
slight crackling out in the thick cranberry bushes came to our ears.

"Hark!" whispered Rod; "something out there. The bear, perhaps."

Standing on tiptoe, we peeped quietly over the tops of the bushes, now laden with the green
cranberries. Off some seventeen or eighteen rods, something was slowly moving. We could see
it plainly--something which, at first sight, looked like the roots of an old dry pine stump,
a great mass of stubs and prongs.

"A moose!" exclaimed Rod, in an eager whisper. "A moose browsing the cranberries! Quick with
your rifle! Together now!"

We both fired. The huge animal, fully nine feet in height beneath his antlers, bounded into
the air at the reports, with a wild, hoarse cry, which I can compare to nothing I have ever
heard for hideousness. In a frightful way it resembled the neigh of a horse, or, rather, the
loud squeal of that animal when bitten or otherwise hurt--bounded up, then fell, floundering
and wallowing amid the cranberries, uttering hideous moans.

As quickly as we could for the thick and tangled bushes, we made our way out towards the spot.
The fearful struggles stilled as we drew near. Our aim, at so short a distance, had been thoroughly
fatal. A great opening in the bushes had been smashed down, in the midst of which lay the moose,
with its large nostrils dilated, gasping and quivering. But its great ox eyes were set, and
rapidly glazing. The bushes were all besprinkled and drenched with blood. One bullet had struck
and broken the skull into the brain; that was Rod's. Mine had gone into the breast, striking
the lungs,--probably, from the profuse bleeding.

"A pretty good shot!" exclaimed Rod, looking upon the slaughter from a purely business stand-point.
"Moosehide is always worth something. So are those antlers. A noble set--aren't they? All of
four feet broad across the top. Pretty heavy to lug; we can put them in the canoe, though."

"Then there's the meat," said I.

"That's so," cried Rod, smacking his lips. "No more rabbit's broth for us at present. O, won't
we have some grand moose steaks! Do you hear that, old boy? How does that strike your fancy?
Come, let's skin him, and cut him up. I long to behold some of that surloin broiling! Rabbit
meat, indeed!" and Rod whipped out his hunting-knife, and fell upon the carcass with the zeal
of a hungry bald eagle.

In a few minutes we had stripped off the skin. Rod then wrenched off the antlers, cut out the
muffle (the end of the nose), and also about a hundred weight of what he considered the choicest
of the meat. The rest of it--nine or ten hundred pounds--we could only leave where it had fallen.
It would be of no use to us, so far from the settled lands.

To carry our spoils down to our canoe, we had to make two trips; for the antlers alone were
as much as one could take along at once. We had gone back after them and the hide.

"Too bad," remarked Rod, "to leave all this flesh here to rot above ground."

"I doubt if it be left to rot above ground," said I. "There are too many hungry mouths about
for that."

"Right there," said Rod; "and that makes me think we might use it to lure them, and to bait
our traps with. Drag it out to the path, and set the traps round it."

The idea seemed a good one. So we cut the remains of the carcass in two. Whole it was too heavy
to be moved. Then, fastening some stout withes into them, we dragged the pieces, one after
the other, out to the path, and left it at the place where the path entered the cranberry bushes.
This done, we set the traps about it,--the remaining five,--and then went back to the canoe
with the antlers and skin.

"Made a very fair thing of it, after all," remarked Rod, as we floated with the current down
to our camp. "Tell you what, old fellow, these steaks are not to be sneezed at. More than ordinary
pot luck just at this time."

It is needless to say that we fully satisfied our taste for venison that night, or that our
breakfast next morning was merely a repetition of supper. Such things are to be expected in
the wilderness. Suffice it to add, that we neither overate nor overslept, but were up betimes,
and off to examine our traps considerably before sunrise. We did not go up in the canoe on
the river, but walked along the bank through the woods.

"We may surprise a bear or a lynx at the carcass," said Rod.

So, as we drew near the place where we had left it in the path the evening before, we made
our way amid the brush with as little noise as possible. A small hollow, overrun with hackmatack,
led up towards the spot. We crept along the bed of it, in order to approach unobserved. Pausing
a moment to listen, the clank of a chain came faintly to our ears, then a growling, worrying
noise, heard when two creatures, jealous of each other's rights, eat from the same piece.

"Game!" whispered Rod.

Climbing quietly up the steep side, we peeped out from amid the green boughs. We had got up
within nine or ten rods; but intervening bushes partially hid the carcass. Something was moving
about it, however--something black. The trap chains were rattling. Then a big black head was
raised, to growl; and as if in reply came a sharp snarl from some animal out of sight. The
black creature darted forward; and a great uproar arose, growling, grappling, and spitting,
at which there flew up a whole flock of crows, cawing and hawing; and the noise increasing,
there sprang into the air, at a single flap, a great yellow bird, uttering a savage scream.

"An eagle!" whispered Rod; "and that black creature's a bear, I guess. Can't see him just plainly.
Growls like one, though. Fighting with some other animal--isn't he? Some sort of a cat, by
the spitting."

"Shall we fire on them?" said I.

"No; let 'em have it out," said Rod. "One of them will be pretty sure to get chewed up, and
the other won't leave the carcass. Besides, the cat's in the trap, I reckon, by the rattling."
For the jingling of the chain could still be heard over the howling they were making. But ere
the fight had lasted many seconds, a suppressed screech, followed by a crunching sound, told
ill for one or the other of the combatants. "The cat's got his death hug," muttered Rod.

Presently the bear--a great, clumsy-looking fellow--came out into view, strutted along, scrubbing
his feet on the grass, like a dog, and went back to the carcass. The eagle and the crows had
come back to it. They flew before him.

"Keep your eye on the eagle," whispered Rod. "I would like to get him. It isn't a 'white head.'
Never saw one like it."

The great bird circled slowly several times, then stooped, almost touching the bear's shaggy
back with its hooked talons. At that the bear raised his ugly muzzle, all reeking from his
feast, and growled menacingly. This was repeated several times, the bear warning him off at
each stoop, and sometimes striking with his big paw. Finding the bear not inclined to divide
with him, the eagle, with one mighty flap of his wings, rose up to the top of a tall hemlock
standing near, and perched upon it. We could see the branches bend and sway beneath his weight.

"I'll have him now," muttered Rod, poking the muzzle of his rifle out through the boughs. "You
take the bear. Ready! now!"

We blazed away. With a wild shriek the eagle came tumbling down through the hemlock. Rod ran
out towards him, and I made up to the bear. Old Bruin was merely wounded--an ugly flesh wound;
and not knowing whence it came, he had flown at the dead lynx,--for such it turned out to be,--and
was giving him another hugging. Seeing me, he started up, to rectify his mistake, probably;
but I had put in another charge, and instantly gave him a quietus. Just then Rod came up, dragging
the eagle.

"Never saw one like it," exclaimed he. "I mean to take it down to Greenville."

After skinning the bear and the lynx, we gathered up the traps, and went down to our camp.
Together with the spoils of the moose, we had now a full canoe load, and stowing them in, went
down the river that afternoon. Two days after, we arrived at Greenville, at the foot of Moosehead
Lake. There we fell in with a party of tourists--from Boston, I believe. They pronounced Rod's
"big bird" to be a golden eagle.

                                             C. A. STEPHENS.

WORSHIP OF NATURE.

A HUNTING ADVENTURE.

Tired of the heat and confusion of the city, my friend Clarke and I left New York one fine
morning for a hunting excursion on the prairies.

At Galena, on the Mississippi, we went aboard a steamer which conveyed us to St. Paul. Here
we fitted out for the trip, and finally, at Sauk Rapids set our foot for the first time on
the prairie.

From the Mississippi, at Sauk Rapids, we struck about north-west across the prairie for Fort
Garry, a Hudson Bay Company's fort, at the junction of the Assiniboine and Red River, where
we replenished some of our stores; and thence we travelled through the Sioux, or Da-ko-tah
country, until we reached Turtle Mountain.

Our party consisted of Clarke and myself, two French Canadians, whom we had engaged at St.
Paul, and a half-breed, whom we had met on the frontier before reaching Fort Garry.

One evening, before camping at the base of Turtle Mountain, Clarke and I gave chase to some
buffalo, and I killed one, which I proceeded to cut up at once by removing the tongue and undercut
of the fillet. The meat I tied to the thongs of my saddle, placed there especially for that
purpose, and I rejoined the camp before nightfall. Clarke came back shortly afterwards, having
killed his buffalo in three or four shots, and after a long chase. This had delayed him so
much, that he lacked time to cut up his animal; so he marked the spot as well as he could by
its bearings with Turtle Mountain, and he rode homewards to the camp, intending to go on the
following morning, and get the meat for home consumption.

We cooked and ate our dinners, and rolling ourselves up in our buffalo robes, we slept most
soundly. The following morning, Clarke went out and fetched his pony, which was picketed near
the camp, saddled it, took his rifle and hunting-knife, and then off he started to look for
the dead buffalo of the previous evening, cut it up, and bring home some of the meat.

I remained in camp; and as my wardrobe was rather dilapidated from constant hunting, and the
limited number of clothes I had with me, I proceeded to mend my trousers, which were worn through
just where it might naturally be expected they would first give way. This I could only do by
shortening the legs of the garment. However, the end justified the means in this case.

These repairs, with other necessary work about our rifles and guns, occupied the morning very
pleasantly; and about midday I went up the hill behind our camp, where a small bluff, or headland,
projected from it over the vast grassy plain. I took my telescope with me, as every traveller
in those wild regions should always do, when spying out either the fatness of the land or the
possible surrounding dangers. Far and wide my eye fell over the gentle undulations of the prairie,
but no deer or buffalo could I see.

No; instead of quietly feeding game, I discovered my friend Clarke, some three or four miles
from camp, galloping at the top of his horse's speed towards us, and five Indians in hot pursuit
of him.

Knowing his danger, I of course ran down the bluff as hard as I could to the camp, and holloaed
to the men to make haste and come to the rescue. I then ran for my pony, which was picketed
at a short distance from our tent; but he was difficult to catch, or had drawn his peg out
of the ground. At any rate, I could not get hold of him; so I gave him up, and seizing my rifle,
darted off as hard as I could to meet my friend.

The men also turned out with their guns; and soon afterwards Clarke rode up, both he and his
pony looking much distressed. Clarke was as white as a sheet, and his pony was completely blown.
The Indians sheered off on seeing us ready with our rifles. So no shot was fired; for they
never came within range.

I then asked Clarke what had happened; and I give you his story of the affair.

On leaving camp in the morning, he had gone in search of the dead buffalo of the previous night.
He soon found the carcass; and wishing to bring home the meat, he got off his pony, tied the
animal to the horns of the buffalo,--as you are always taught to do in the Indian country,--and
straightway began to cut off the pieces of meat which he wished to bring back to camp. Whilst
so employed, he thought he saw another herd of buffalo not far away; so he finished cutting
off the meat, and rode towards the new herd, on murderous thoughts intent.

He stalked the herd for some distance, until he thought himself tolerably near, when he looked
round the corner of a hillock, and then to his horror found he had been carefully approaching
five Indians, who were congregated round a dead buffalo, their horses close by, and the men
occupied in cutting up the beast.

Before he could turn to flee out of sight the Indians discovered him. They were Sioux, and
at war with the whites. Instantly they jumped on their horses and gave chase, fired, no doubt,
with the noble zeal to hang a white scalp in a Sioux lodge. Off went Clarke as hard as his
little pony could carry him, the Indians shouting behind, and brandishing their guns in the
air as they became excited by the chase, whilst he was thinking of the probability that existed
of his scalp returning to camp, or dangling at the saddle-bow of one of these bloodthirsty savages.

Clarke supposes that he was five or six miles from camp when the chase began; and he recollected
well throwing the cover away from his rifle, in preparation for a fight should his pony fall,
or the Indians catch him through the superior speed of their animals.

Imagine the horrible feelings of a young fellow galloping away from five wild redskins, who
not only desire to kill him then and there, but have, further, the sportsman-like anxiety to
strip his scalp, and hang the dearly-beloved trophy in some filthy lodge, where it will gradually
dry up, and remain the most valued heirloom in the family of the "Big Snake," or the "Screeching
Eagle," or some other no less happily-named Sioux.

Their horrible shrieks ring in his ears, whilst he anxiously measures with his eyes the distance
betwixt himself and his bloodthirsty pursuers; he endeavors to estimate his chances of escape,
and longs for the protection of the camp, as Wellington longed for night or Blucher, knowing
that if he falls he will be shot, or tomahawked and scalped, in the course of a couple of minutes.

No wonder, then, that poor Clarke did look as if he had seen a ghost, or encountered something
even much worse; nor do I believe that during his subsequent army service he was ever much
nearer a horrible death than during the few minutes which that pursuit lasted.

To conclude the account of this adventure, we covered his return to camp with our rifles, as
I mentioned in the earlier part of this story; and you may conceive that we kept a very strict
watch in the camp during the night, fearing lest the Sioux should either stampede us with an
increased number of their friends after nightfall, or try to carry off our horses, and leave
us deserted in the midst of the prairie. However, the night passed off quietly; and often since
then have Clarke and I talked over this memorable adventure.

    One step and then another,
      And the longest walk is ended;
    One stitch and then another,
      And the largest rent is mended.
    One brick upon another,
      And the highest wall is made;
    One flake upon another,
      And the deepest snow is laid.

NEARLY LOST.

"I know what I shall do!" exclaimed Walter Harrison to about a dozen other boys, his schoolfellows,
who were standing round him. "I shall just tell 'old Barnacles' that my father and mother wish
me to have a holiday this afternoon, and he can't say 'no' to that. It's the simplest and best
way. If you all agree to it, we shall get a holiday all around. Who'll go in for my plan?"

"I will! and I! and I!" responded nearly all the boys.

The facts of the case were simply these: There were taking place in a park close by a series
of athletic sports, and this afternoon the admission was free to any one who chose to go. Of
course all the boys in Mr. Jackson's school were mad to see the sports; but by the time the
school was out the best fun would be over, and the majority of the boys guessed pretty shrewdly
what would be the result of asking their parents to let them stay away. The grand idea was
to induce the master to give a general holiday, but the question was how that desirable end
was to be brought about. It had been suggested to stay away bodily, without so much as saying,
"With your leave or by your leave;" but as such a course carried a certainty of punishment
in its train, it was universally rejected. Another idea, which had received some favor, had
been to trip up the poor half-blind schoolmaster, quite by accident, and by rendering him incapable
obtain the desired holiday, but there had been a majority found to protest against such cruelty;
and now Walter Harrison had suggested his plan. But although most of them were inclined to
adopt it, there were two who resolutely refused to do so.

"Why won't you join us?" asked Walter of these two.

"I sha'n't, because I'm not going to tell a pack of lies for the sake of a holiday," answered
Willie Ford, the younger of the two.

"How good we are!" replied Walter, tauntingly; and then throwing his cap up into the air, he
sang out:

    "'There was a curly-headed boy
      Who never told a lie;
    He knew a trick worth two of that:
      That was the reason why.'

"Sly fox!" he said, patting Willie on the back. "He does the 'good' dodge to perfection, and
finds it answers too; don't you, Ford?"

Walter's sallies were received with roars of laughter by the boys. Willie took no notice of
them, although it was a difficult matter to restrain his anger.

"What a milksop the fellow is!" cried out one of the boys.

"A stupid little muff!" cried another.

"Am I?" cried Willie, his temper now fully roused; "I'll show you about that. Although I'm
not going to tell lies, I'll fight any one of you. Come now, Harrison, let's have it out together."

Harrison burst out laughing: "Fancy me fighting with a little cock-sparrow like you! I should
like to see myself!"

Willie was about to burst out again, but a friendly hand was laid on his arm, and his friend
Philip said, gently, "Come away, Will; no fighting about such a trifle as that, lad."

"What a peppery little chap!" called out Walter as Willie turned away with his friend. "Pepper
and sop! Ugh! what a nasty mess!"

The boys followed out their plan, and got their holiday, all except Willie and Philip and several
little fellows who had taken no interest in the matter.

School over, the two boys rushed off in the hope that they might be in time to see something.
They were too late, however, for the performances were just coming to an end when they arrived,
so they started for a stroll through the beautiful park, which was not often open to the public.

"Why, there are our fellows!" said Philip as they suddenly came in sight of a group of boys
on the edge of the magnificent lake.

"What are they up to? They're very busy about something!" exclaimed Willie.

"Let's go and see," Philip said, in reply.

As they came nearer they could tell that the boys were gesticulating and shouting to something
in the water.

"It can't be one of them gone in and lost his depth," said Willie, anxiously.

No such thing, as they found when they got close--only a dog that the boys were amusing themselves
by seeing how long they could keep under water. The creature was making frantic efforts to
gain a landing-place, but as he approached the shore they drove him back with sticks and stones.

"We're teaching him to swim," cried one as Philip and Willie came up. "A miserable little mongrel!
he can't swim a bit!"

"Why, don't you see," cried Willie, eagerly, "that he's as weak as a rat? He can scarcely support
himself in the water. I should think he's been starved."

At this moment the dog, being turned back once more, disappeared, quite close to the shore.
With a loud cry of pain and anger, Willie darted through the boys, and wading into the shallow
water succeeded in enticing the drowning dog toward him. He came out, holding the dripping
creature safely in his arms.

"We must carry it home," he said to Philip, after they had vainly endeavored to set it upon
its feet; and accordingly, they started off at a good pace, the poor half-drowned animal safely
sheltered in Willie's arms.

Well might his mother be alarmed to see him come home to tea in such a plight; but when she
heard his explanation, she was quite ready to sympathize with him, and told him he had done
bravely and well to rescue the poor animal. As he seemed none the worse for his wetting, he
was allowed to come down stairs again as soon as he had put on dry things. Very tenderly the
little half-starved dog was fed with warmed milk. He had fallen into good hands. Willie's father
and mother were kind Christian people, who had taught their children to be gentle and considerate
to the meanest of God's creatures.

"Why, Willie, he's a fine fellow, and only quite a puppy; he will be a splendid dog when he
is fully grown," his father said, when the animal had recovered sufficiently to be examined.

And so it proved. Bruno, as Willie named him, turned out a splendid creature. His devotion
to the whole family, but especially to Willie, was quite touching to see. He would obey the
slightest gesture of his young master in every matter except one. As a child once burned dreads
the fire, so Bruno, once nearly drowned, could never be induced to enter the water.

While Bruno was developing into a handsome dog, Willie, you may be sure, was not standing still.
He had grown into a fine strong lad, and got beyond poor old Dr. Jackson's school.

To the last day of his stay there he and Walter Harrison never managed to get on very good
terms, and a suspected unfairness in the matter of obtaining a prize made them part with still
greater coldness.

A year or two after he had left school Willie's parents went with their family to spend the
summer months near the sea. Before they had been in their new quarters many weeks, much to
Willie's vexation and disappointment, he found that Walter and his parents were also staying
in the same town, and quite close to him.

The two lads frequently met, but they could get on no better now than they had done in the
old days. Walter still looked upon Willie as a contemptible little milksop, and Willie was
inclined to consider Walter's exploits more the result of foolhardiness than bravery.

One day they met on the beach. Walter had come down with a friend to take a boat.

"Rather rough for rowing," Willie called out as he passed, "but I suppose you're a good oar."

"What's that to you?" responded Walter, insolently; "I suppose you're afraid of a little sea."

"I don't see the pleasure of going out when there's any risk," Willie replied, good-humoredly.

"How precious careful you are over yourself!" replied Walter.

The boat pushed off, and away started the two friends. Willie, not caring to watch them after
the haughty, rude manner in which his remark had been received, turned away; but before he
had gone far his attention was attracted by a succession of shouts and ejaculations.

The tiny boat had come to grief before they had got much more than fifty yards from the shore.
In the unskilful hands of the two lads the little bark was a mere plaything in the angry sea.
Carried on with a swiftness they were unable to check, they rushed headlong on to one of the
hidden rocks with which the coast abounded. The boat turned over and disappeared, leaving its
occupants struggling in the water.

There were but few bystanders, and of these no one did more than talk and gesticulate and ask
wildly what was to be done.

The same impulse that had prompted Willie to rescue a drowning dog now caused him to risk his
life in order to save that of the boy who had always shown so unfriendly a disposition toward him.

Pulling off his coat, he threw it and his hat down on the shore; and giving Bruno an injunction
to guard them, he plunged bravely into the tempestuous waves. He could swim well, and succeeded
with great difficulty in reaching the spot where Walter had but a moment ago disappeared, and
then began the terrible struggle for life.

Bruno sat by his master's clothes and gazed out over the sea with eyes which looked almost
human in their intelligent anxiety. Presently he grew restless, and in another moment the faithful
creature dashed into the waves, and made resolutely for the spot where his master was laboriously
engaged in trying to convey one of the drowning lads to shore.

By the powerful aid of the noble dog Walter and Willie were saved; and a boat having now put
off, Walter's friend was picked up after a while. What a cheer rent the air when the dog and
the two lads gained the shore I cannot attempt to describe. Willie was never called a milksop
any more, and Bruno was more loved and prized than ever.

[Decoration]

CHARLEY.

I made the acquaintance of my little friend Charley under very unusual and startling circumstances.
I saw a lad about fifteen years of age clinging desperately for very life to the topmast of
a sunken ship. I will tell you how it happened.

