"Yes," muttered the other, "God knows all--all--all." Then in a scream of anguish again, "He
has been watching me all the time. He has seen me everywhere I went. He is here now. Look!
don't you see his eyes? Look! Brother Cameron; look you nigger!--Look there--" He pointed to
one corner of the cabin. "Oh, see those awful eyes, watching--watching--I have fooled men but
I couldn't fool God. Don't. Don't.--Oh, Christ, I want to live. Save me--save me--" And he
prayed and plead for Jesus to heal him. "You know you could if you wanted to," he shouted,
profanely; as though the Saviour of men was present in the flesh. Then to Cameron again, "I
must get out of here. Don't you hear them coming? Let me go I say," as the minister held him
back on the bed. "Let me go. Don't you know that I can't look God in the face? I tell you,
I'm afraid."

For a moment he struggled feebly and then sank back exhausted; but soon began to talk again;
and the minister heard with horror the dark secrets of his life.

Suddenly he ceased muttering, and with wide-open eyes, stared into the darkness. "Look there,
Brother Cameron," he cried, hoarse with emotion. "Amy; don't you see her? She disgraced the
family you know; ran away with that low-down printer. But see! Look! Who is that with her?
Oh God, it's Kate--Kate--Yes, Kate, I'll marry you. It can't be wrong, you know, for you love
me. Only we must not marry now for father would--Look Cameron--" His voice rose in a scream
of fear. "She's got smallpox. Drive her out, you nigger; take her away to that cabin in the
woods where you kept me. Sh'-- Don't tell anyone, Cameron, but she wants me to go with her.
She's come to get me. And there's--there's--My God, look--Yes--Yes-- Kate, I'm coming--" And
he sank back on the bed again.

The negro was on his knees trying to mumble a prayer, while the minister sat with bowed head.
The lantern cast flickering shadows in the corners of the room, and the firelight danced and
fell. A water bug crawled over the floor; a spider dropped from the rude rafters; and from
without came the sound of the wind among the bare branches of the trees, and the old horse
feeding on the dead grass and mouldy leaves about the cabin.

Suddenly the sick man spoke once more. "No sir, I will never disgrace you. I am as proud of
our family as yourself. I am--home --day--" The sentence trailed off into a few unintelligible
words in which only "Mother" and "Amy" could be distinguished. And then, with a last look about
the cabin, from eyes in which anguish and awful fear was pictured, he gasped and was gone.

The next day, the old negro dug a grave not far from the house, and at evening, when the sun
was casting the last long shadows through the trees, the colored man and the minister lowered
the body of the rich man's son, with the help of the rope lines from the old harness, to its
last resting place.

A few moments later, the darkey came around to the front of the house.

"Ready to go, sah?"

"Go where?" asked Cameron.

"Why, go home ob course. I reckoned you'd be mighty glad ter get away from dis yer place."

"I'm not going anywhere," the minister answered. "You may unhitch the horse again."

The old man did as he was told; then scratching his woolly head, said to himself, "I golly.
Neber thought ob dat. I'll sure hab ter take care ob him next."

In the days which followed, Cameron wrote long letters to his wife, preparing her, with many
loving words, for what was, in all probability, sure to come before she could reach home again.
He also prepared an article for the Whistler, telling of Frank's death, but omitting all that
would tend to injure the young man's character. To Adam Goodrich only, he wrote the awful truth.
Other letters containing requests in regard to his business affairs, he addressed to Dick Falkner
and Uncle Bobbie Wicks, and one to the President of the Association, in which he made several
recommendations in regard to the work. All of these, except the one to his wife, he placed
in the hands of the negro to be mailed after his death, if such should be the end.

Then when the symptoms of the dread disease appeared, he calmly and coolly began his fight
for life. But his efforts were of no avail; and one night, just before the break of day, he
called the old colored man to his bedside and whispered, with a smile, "It's almost over, Uncle
Jake; my Master bids me come up higher. Good-bye; you have been very kind to me, and the good
Father will not forget you." And so talking calmly of the Master's goodness and love, he fell
asleep, and the old negro sat with a look of awe and reverence on his dusky face, as the glorious
sunlight filled the cabin and the chorus of the birds greeted the coming of the day.

Much that passed in the weeks following, cannot be written here. Mrs. Cameron's grief and anguish
were too keen, too sacred, to be rendered in unsympathetic print. But sustained by that power
which had ennobled the life of her husband, and kept by the promises of the faith that had
strengthened him, she went on doing her part in the Master's work, waiting in loving patience
the call that would unite them again.

A month after the news of Cameron's death reached Boyd City, the president of the Association
called on Dick and spent an hour with him talking of the work. Before leaving, he said: "Mr.
Falkner, in Rev. Cameron's letter to me, he strongly recommended that you be called to take
the place left vacant as director of the Association. With your consent, I will announce that
recommendation at our next meeting. But first, I would like to know what answer you would give."

Dick asked for a week to think over the matter, which was granted. And during that time he
consulted Elder Wicks.

Uncle Bobbie only said, as he grasped his young friend by the hand, "Behold, I have set before
you an open door." And Dick bowed his head in silent assent.

The same day, late in the afternoon, George Udell was bending over some work that he was obliged
to finish before going home. His helper had gone to supper, and the boy, a new one in the office,
was cleaning up preparatory to closing for the night. "Don't clean that press, Jim," said the
printer, suddenly.

"What's the matter; don't you know that it's time to quit?" asked the tired youngster, a note
of anxiety in his voice.

"You can quit," replied George, "but I am going to run off some of this stuff before I go."
And he proceeded to lock up the form.

With a look of supreme disgust on his ink-stained countenance, the other removed his apron
and vanished, as though fearing his employer might change his mind. At the foot of the stairs,
the apprentice met Clara Wilson. "He's up there," he said with a grin, and hurried on out of
the building, while the young lady passed slowly to the upper floor. The stamping of the press
filled the room, and the printer, his eyes on his work, did not hear the door close behind
the girl; and only when she stood at his elbow did he look up. The machine made three impressions
on one sheet before he came to his senses; then he turned to the young lady inquiringly.

"I--I--thought I'd stop and ask you to come over to the house this evening; Mother wants to
see you."

"Hum--m--m, anything important?" asked George, leaning against the press. "You see I'm pretty
busy now." He shut off the power and stepped across the room as the phone rang. "Hello--Yes,
this is Udell's--I'm sorry, but it will be impossible--We close at six you know. Come over
first thing in the morning--Can't do it; it's past six now, and I have an important engagement
to-night. All right. Good-bye."

"Oh, if you have an engagement I will go," said Clara, moving toward the door.

