A Parisian dinner-party is far less conducive to indigestion than is one of our own. Not only
are the courses fewer, as I before remarked, but the viands are less rich in quality and are
served in smaller portions. Delicacy of flavor, and not solidity, is the result aimed at by
a true French cordon bleu. There is also considerable taste and ingenuity displayed in serving
the ices, which are brought to the table in all manner of pretty and fanciful forms. Thus,
at one dinner-party a basket formed of brown nougat was handed round. It was filled with apricots
moulded in peach-tinted ice and of delicious apricot flavor. At another the basket was of white
nougat, and the ice-cream was colored and moulded to represent pink and crimson roses. On another
occasion a large silver dish was borne in, on which was placed a bundle of asparagus, the stalks
held together by a broad blue satin ribbon. The ribbon was untied, the stalks fell apart, and
one was served to each guest, together with a rich sauce from a silver sauce-boat. The asparagus-stalk
was composed of vanilla ice-cream, and the green part of pistacchio ice, while the sauce was
a delicately flavored cream. The imitation of the vegetable was perfect in every particular,
and was thoroughly deceptive. The floral decorations at dinner-parties are usually on a far
less extensive scale than with us. A single basket tastefully arranged for the centre of the
table is considered quite sufficient, except on occasions of extra magnificence and importance.

The official balls at the Élysée, of which two or three are usually given every winter, are
very informal in character. The American traveler who wishes to attend must send in his or
her name through the medium of the American minister. The invitation-lists are divided into
as many sections as there are balls to be given, so as to avoid over-crowding in the comparatively
small salons of the Élysée. Madame MacMahon and the marshal receive their guests in a small
reception-room, which is the first of the suite of apartments on the first floor, all of which
are thrown open to the public on such occasions. They receive in a perfectly simple and informal
manner. Each guest on entering bows to the host and hostess without any form of presentation,
and is then at liberty to wander about at will. The apartments thrown open comprise the state
suites on the first and second floors, numbering some twenty or thirty rooms in all. A temporary
gallery is erected to serve as a supper-room, and there refreshments are served all through
the evening, there being no set hour for supper, as with us. The profusion of flowers and lights,
the crowd of powdered footmen in the white and scarlet liveries of the marshal, the delightful
music and splendid toilettes, combine to make these balls very elegant and attractive, though
far less so than were the official fêtes given under the Empire, when the superb apartments
of the Hôtel de Ville and of the Tuileries formed the grand ball-rooms for the hospitalities
of the government. The Élysée is much too small to accommodate the crowds that usually rush
to these festivals. The heat and crush are excessive, and it is recorded that after the great
ball last year wisps of costly laces, shreds of Chantilly, rags of old point, scraps of point
de Bruxelles strewed the grand staircase from top to bottom. The crowd, owing to the division
of the invitation-lists of which I have spoken, is less dense this year, but still great enough
to render a ball at the Élysée anything but a comfortable form of enjoyment.

There is one feature about Parisian entertainments, whether public or private, which is apt
to strike a stranger very unpleasantly; and that is the card-playing--nay, to put it accurately,
the actual gambling--which forms one of the amusements of the evening. It is not pleasant to
behold in the salons of the President of the French Republic an accurate reproduction in miniature
of the departed glories of Baden-Baden and of Homburg--the shaded lamps, throwing a lurid light
on the "board of green cloth," the piles of gold, the shifting cards, the intent faces of the
players, and the groups of gazers looking on in silence. Vast sums are, I am told, often lost
and won in this manner during a single evening. This, at least, is a reproach from which American
entertainments of the highest class are certainly free. John Morrisey may take his seat in
Congress, but he does not direct the amusements in the back parlor of the White House.

But if French society is unexacting in the matter of refreshments, it runs to waste in regard
to dress. The toilettes worn at all entertainments of any extent and formality far surpass
in costliness and beauty any festal garbs which feminine humanity can contrive to don in America.
In this birthplace of dress, dress is a pre-eminent and all-important feature. Two great points
are de rigueur in a Frenchwoman's toilette: it must always be appropriate, and always be fresh.
It may not be costly, it may not be elaborate, but those two qualities must not be lacking.
And they shade things off so much more minutely than they do with us. A ball-dress cannot be
a dinner-dress, and vice versâ; while in America the same toilette is considered appropriate
for both occasions. If a dinner-party is to number over twelve guests, a low-necked dress is
admissible; otherwise, the dinner-dress must be made with open corsage and half-long sleeves.
The same shade of glove is not suitable at a wedding-reception that is proper for a formal
call. The handsomest of walking-dresses is inadmissible to receive calls in or to wear out
in the evening to the opera or to a small party. The very length of skirt that is appropriate
for each festive occasion is regulated by the laws of fashion. A lady at the Grand Opéra or
Les Italiens must not wear her opera-cloak after she takes her seat in the theatre: it is considered
only a wrap, no matter how magnificent or costly it may be. Fancy jewelry of all kinds is entirely
out of fashion, and is seen no more: pearls and precious stones alone are worn on full-dress
occasions. This rule has, it is whispered, caused a great increase in the trade of dealers
in imitation jewelry, those who cannot afford the real article taking refuge in the highly
vraisemblable splendors of wax-lined pearls and paste diamonds. It is rumored that after one
of the great official balls of last season a superb diamond necklace was found behind one of
the cushions of a sofa at the Élysée. It was placed in the hands of the prefect of the police,
where it remained for some time without any claimant presenting herself. Finally, it was decided
that the ornament should be sold and the proceeds applied to the relief of the poor of Paris.
A jeweler was accordingly summoned, who, by the application of acids and a file, soon proved
conclusively to the authorities that the precious trouvaille was a worthless piece of imitation.
Sardou's heroine in his Maison Neuve, who sells her small real diamonds in order to appear
at a ball ablaze with paste, is a true character of the epoch, and was evidently sketched from
real life. But the disappearance of the masses of clinquante which used to be worn some years
ago is a positive boon to the lovers of correct taste in dress.

Another striking feature of European society to an American is the predominance of old women
therein--ladies of sixty or seventy years of age, very much coiffées, tremendously dressed
and glittering with gems. This element is far from being an attractive one. A venerable dowager
with white roses and lilies of the valley in her frizzed gray hair, with many diamonds and
pearls displayed upon a neck which should long ago have retired into the deep obscurity of
kerchief and high corsage, is not a charming object. It has been made a subject of reproach
against American society that it is given up so entirely to the youth of both sexes. Well,
after all, it is better so--that is, so far as balls and dancing-parties are concerned. Seventeen
in white tarletan is a far more beauteous and appropriate ornament for a ball-room than is
seventy in white brocade or rose-pink satin.

    L. H. H.

NATIONAL FORMS OF GREETING.

The general structure of a language is admitted on all hands to be a good index of the character
of the people using it. To cite but two instances: the firm, compact, stern mould in which
a Latin sentence is cast seems only the natural mode of expression for those who so firmly,
compactly and sternly carried their eagles in triumph over the world and assembled the deities
of conquered nations in their own Pantheon; while the marvelous grace and flexibility spread
like a transparent veil of ravishing beauty over the well-posed members of a Greek sentence
could emanate, from no source so naturally as the gay, beauty-loving sons of the Hellenes,
whose conceptions of beauty are the ideals for all time; whose flexible wit needed, as it created,
the vehicle of its communication; and whose philosophical acumen could flash out in no speech
less capable of manifesting delicate shades of thought.

What is thus true of language in general has a concentrated truth in the forms of speech used
in greetings. Let us compare these in a few languages, ancient and modern, and see if the fact
be not so. We will begin with the most familiar, as it is the best and most enduring, type
of the Semitic race--the Hebrew. The history of the Jews--at any rate as it is set forth in
their own sacred Books--is pre-eminently the history of a race singled out by an overruling
Power for the education of conscience. To this bear witness the laws of the Two Tables, and
most of those other laws, purely ceremonial, whose apparent triviality in some particulars
is at any rate a mode of symbolizing what was the main object of the Lawgiver--keeping the
heart and conscience pure. To this bear witness the plaints--the like of which no other ancient
literature furnishes--of their royal Psalmist, the type of what was best and noblest in his
race--plaints which mourned not so much outward adversity or physical suffering as the pain
of a hurt conscience, a realization of guilt which threw a pall over all that else was bright--plaints
which, as that secluded education in Palestine became handed down to posterity and diffused
wherever the Old Testament found its way, have been adopted by humanity as the de profundis
of all hearts conscious of guilt. And what was the Hebrew's salutation as he met his brother
or his friend? "Peace!" The inner life of the race could not be more clearly shown by volumes.

With the Greek it was different. His heaven and his earth were counterparts of each other.
Even his Zeus Terpikeraunos seemed fonder of other occupations than hurling his flashing bolts.
The Father of gods and men disdained not (when nectar and ambrosia perhaps began to surfeit
him) to lead the dwellers of Olympus on festive journeys to the "blameless Ethiops," and there
pass a week or two in revels. No chance of a quiet flirtation would he miss if only he could
escape the keen watchfulness of Hera; and not unfrequently, if such escape were hopeless, would
he run the risk of a curtain-lecture rather than forego his tête-à-tête. And for the other
"greater gods," if we except the cold Pallas Athene and the stately spouse of Zeus, their principal
aim seemed to be to have a jolly time of it.

    Man tanzt, man schwätzt, man kocht, man trinkt, man liebt:
    Nun sage mir, wo es was Besseres giebt?

might serve popularly as the Greek's notion of the occupations of the gods when they were not
quarreling with each other; and no wonder, for he simply peopled Olympus with exaggerated counterparts
of himself and his fellows. Life to him was nothing if it was not a fast and merry one; and
to make it so were pressed into the service not only what catered to his sensual nature (and,
truly, if Faust had been a Greek there had been no need of Mephistopheles), but all the charms
of art, all the powers of exuberant fancy, all the keen delights of literary culture. He had
higher aspirations than mere enjoyment, even of an elevated kind: witness Salamis and Mycale,
the Pass of Thermopylæ and the fields of Marathon and Platæa. But when the serious business
of life gave time, wine, flowers and lovely women were uppermost in his thoughts. To and from
him, then, what greeting so natural as [Greek: Chaire!] ("Rejoice!" "Be happy!")?

As we pass from the shadows of the Acropolis and the Acrocorinthus to the crests and valleys
of the Seven Hills, the tone is changed. We do not speak of the degenerate days when, after
his indignant burst of

          Non possum ferre, Quirites,
    Græcam Urbem,

Juvenal, in speaking of Rome itself, says,

    Non est Romano cuiquam locus hîc, ubi regnat
    Protogenes aliquis, vel Diphilus, aut Erimarchus,

although even then the Latin speech retained forms of a nobler antiquity. We speak rather of
those times when Rome was Roman--when the spirit which framed the speech still pervaded the
commonwealth which used the speech. To the citizen of that time the idea of the chief of the
Olympian gods was not of a rollicking despot, angry and jovial by turns, a delighter in thunderbolts,
a cloud-compeller, a reckless adulterer: he was the awful personification of the majesty of
law, mighty to impose its decrees and mighty to avenge its disregarded sanctions--who, brought
near to the city, was worshiped as Jupiter Capitolinus, majestic as the conservator of civil
and social order. The charms of art, the graces of song, the effeminacy of festal pleasures
were little recked of by the Roman of the Roman period--he who used his ancestral speech in
the meanings imposed upon its terms by his fathers. Phoebus Apollo and Pallas Athene were not
so much revered by him as was Mars of the visage stern and the bloody hand, to whom he gloried
in ascribing the blood of Romulus, protected by whom he believed the "Mavortia moenia" would
stand for ever. To him the state was everything, the citizen nothing, save in so far as he
was a working member of the state. No private pleasure, no private gain, no private right was
admitted which stood in the way of the common weal; and whatever privileges one might have,
belonged to him not as a man, but as a Roman, reflecting in his own person the sacred being
of the state. No wonder that in spite of all reverses, and until absorption of foreign poisons
had vitiated the blood of her sons or fratricidal strife had spilled it, Rome saw the world
at her feet. No wonder, too, that the customary greeting of those who used her speech was "Salus!"
("Health!") at meeting, and "Vale!" ("Be strong!") at parting.

To pass from ancient nations to modern. No race has had, in its way, a greater influence upon
European civilization than the French, many-sided in character, and whose language is that
of modern diplomacy. By no people are appearances more studied or cared for. Courage, undoubtedly,
is possessed by the men, but a Frenchman (the typical Frenchman, that is) is better pleased
if his courage, whether on the field of battle, in the private encounter or the civic assembly,
can have a good mise en scène for its exhibition. Deportment is the great thing; and in social
life who can deny what charm is given to friendly intercourse--even though one may know that
feelings are not very deep--by the studious attention to a pleasant way of saying or doing
things?--so different from the heedless bluntness of some other races, which, even while it
may proceed from no unkindness, yet gives, at any rate, the impression of disregard for the
feelings of others. What a regard to appearances is not revealed in such common expressions
as "Être de mauvaise tournure" and "Avoir bonne tournure," as applied to either man or woman?
And as for the women, who can excel a Frenchwoman in the art of looking if not elegant, yet
at any rate spruce, by the aid of even meagre materials, and in the art of "savoir faire,"
of which our English "tact" hardly preserves the aroma? What dynasty or party shall rule the
destinies of France may be uncertain. Bonapartist, Legitimist, Republican may be in the ascendant
or may be hurled from power, but under each or all, whether for good or evil, manners will
rule until the French cease to be French; for when they meet you do not they say, naturally,
"Comment vous portez-vous?" ("How do you carry yourself?")?

If a Frenchman should unintentionally run against you, would he not ask your pardon with the
politest possible bow? If a German should encounter you in the same unintentionally unceremonious
way, would he not in all probability, after the recoil, look at you with inquiring eyes, with
a mixture of phlegmatic coolness and curiosity, and partly as an exclamation, partly as an
interrogation, utter the monosyllable "So!"? He would not be so much occupied in trying to
parry the blunder gracefully as in thinking of its cause, with that love of sifting which involuntarily
exhibits itself even in little things, or with that tendency to take even jokes gravely which
originated the fable of Pope Joan, and led a learned commentator, in his annotations on Thucydides,
to cite, with all the ponderous clang of a critical Latin note, the factions "of the Long Pipes
and the Short Pipes, mentioned by Mr. Diedrich Knickerbocker in his History of New York," as
a grave historic parallel to the factions at Athens and those of the Guelphs and the Ghibellines!
Wonderful is the exactness in research, as well as the gravity, of the Teuton--his reflectiveness,
his going to the bottom of the minutiæ of facts, as well as his recourse to his "inner consciousness"
when the concrete fails him. Thoroughness, quiet, plodding thoroughness--a looking at things
in all their bearings, an exhaustive (as well as exhausting) treatment of a subject, whether
of fact or of speculation, a constant striving to find out all about whatever he takes in hand--is
not this one of his most marked characteristics? And so, is it not natural that his greeting
should be, if he is gravely polite, "Wie befinden Sie sich?" ("How do you find yourself?")?

Lastly, the Anglo-Saxon greeting has its revelation of character no less than the others. No
corner of the earth is ignorant of the representatives of that sturdy race whose commerce is
worldwide; whose inventions have revolutionized ways and means of getting and doing and having
things; whose enterprise is boundless; whose self-contained courage is resistless in onset
as it is strong in resistance; whose busy going to and fro, or whose steady home-work, always
has an eye to the main chance; whose stateliness as shown in the conservative wealth of the
Old England is matched by its progressiveness as developed in the New; whose Anglo-Saxon homes
are models of what is nowhere else so readily found, "home comforts," won by hard work or conserved
by happy inheritance. Has not the Anglo-Saxon a character all his own--a compound, doubtless,
of the good (and often the bad) elements which he has absorbed with his natural acquisitiveness
from others? And can the same number of words better gather up the sum and substance of it
than his salutation, "How do you do?"?

    J. A. H.

SEASONABLE READING.

I once wrote for a monthly magazine an out-door paper--a summer study, intended to enliven
the reader's feeling rather than enlighten his understanding--and timed the production of it
so that it should appear during the winter. The thought that it would be read only by bright
firesides cheered me not a little in the writing. The editor, endeavoring to propitiate that
thoughtless creature, "the general reader"--in matters of art but another name for "the general
prejudice" or "the general ignorance"--notified me in January that he would prefer to hold
the contribution till summer came again, when it would be regarded as "more appropriate, and
just the thing to be read under green arbors and spreading beeches." I was glad to know that
he thought it just the thing to be read anywhere, but nevertheless resolved to lay before the
general reader, or the general prejudice, or the general ignorance, my little protest.

Most people are aware that the effects of Nature are so evanescent that the painter generally
makes his study as if he were observing an eclipse. Down go a few strokes; into the spaces
go notes, signs, symbols--all in the shortest kind of shorthand. Six months afterward, when
the picture is made amid other scenes, the sketch and notes are used, to be sure, so far as
they go, but the artist uses his good memory more. All people know that a book or canvas gives
us not Nature, but an interpretation, a translation, a few selections, a memory of Nature.
If the work be good, we are glad to abstract our eyes, for the time, from all else. We can
do this best when the scene from which the work was studied is shut farthest away from sight.
Summer landscapes themselves are one thing, and we enjoy them in summer: such landscapes utilized--they
cannot be reproduced--by art, are another thing, and these we enjoy at the winter fireside,
when the eye sees nothing without except leaden clouds and effacing snow. Not even the average
American would take a landscape-painting under his arm if he wished to get the good of it,
and go set it up in the glare of an open harvestfield or in the darkness of a deep wood, although
these objects may have made the picture. He would enjoy Nature just as well, no doubt, during
such a proceeding, but would he get the good of art? What would the painter do to the critic
or buyer who subjected his work to such a test? Poison him at the very least. And this is what
the literary artist should complain of, rather than desire, at the hands of an editor. He should
not want the little bit that he selected, narrowed, intensified, idealized, and then imperfectly
transcribed from memory, brought out and set up before a reader whose eye is filled at every
glance with the overpowering and inexhaustible realities of Nature herself.

Just the thing to read in the blistering days of July, if anything can be read then, is a graphic
description of a snowstorm, or a lively account of the way a polar bear invaded the ice-hut
of a benumbed Eskimo, or a history of the Washington Monument: something cold. Ice is as grateful
in your dog-day literature as in your August julep. No one will hold that at such a time he
prefers to contemplate a picture of Sahara or of a frying-pan. On the same principle, let us
have, in art, our green leaves and warm colors amid the frosts of midwinter. Only the atmospheric
extremes, summer and winter, can be seriously considered in "seasoning" periodical literature,
the months our almanacs call spring being neither one thing nor another. In capricious April,
however, a vision of golden and placid October would seem to be the proper thing, as would
the freshness of May in the mellow melancholy of autumn. If editors receive more censures than
compliments for publishing certain articles, into which the element of "news" does not enter,
six months after the seasons of which they treat, there is one obscure contributor at least
who considers the necessity a virtue.

    C. H.

[According to the theory of "C. H.," the Christmas number of a magazine should be filled with
midsummer idyls, while Christmas carols would be the appropriate reading in July or August.
He thinks this would provide a grateful relief--like ice on a hot day or a blazing log on a
cold one--from the effects of any intensity of temperature in the opposite seasons. But this
is confounding sensations with mere conceptions, and seeking to "cloy the hungry edge of appetite
by bare imagination of a feast." The ice cools and the fire warms, but a description of one
or the other in place of the reality would make its absence only the more intolerable. Reynolds
the dramatist tells us that one of his summer pieces was damned, owing to a scene in which
the actors were served with plentiful libations of cool drinks--a tantalizing spectacle that
drew a storm of hisses from the hot and thirsty audience. We hope the editor whom "C. H." has
so inconsiderately assailed may not be tempted to revenge himself by exposing his contributor
to a similar mishap.--ED.]

A HINT FOR THE CENTENNIAL.

The interest in the approaching Centennial celebration at Philadelphia is daily widening and
extending, and if those entrusted with its management prove themselves competent for the work,
and show that they are duly inspired with its breadth and its significance to the world, before
the end of the present year there will not be a hamlet in the land whose citizens are not made
prouder of their nationality and individually anxious to contribute something to its glory.
It should be made the grandest occasion of the kind which the world has ever witnessed, for
if it be anything less than that, it will fail to respond to the honest aspirations and generous
pride of the American heart. Aside from the museum proper--the collection of past and present
manufactures, past and present implements of industry--every day should witness some grand
tournament, like that trial of grain-reapers which took place at the exposition at Paris in
1855. The scene was a splendid field of grain forty miles from the city. Three machines--one
English, one French (from Algiers), and one American--were the weapons of the contest. The
audience was a crowd of curious witnesses gathered from every quarter of the globe. At a signal
from the judges' stand the fine machines started and moved each over its allotted acre, cutting
down and raking the grain like magic. The Algerian machine did its work in seventy-two minutes,
the English in sixty-six, and the American in twenty-two minutes! A French journal at the time
said of the American machine, "It did its work in the most exquisite manner, not leaving a
single spear ungathered, and it discharged the grain in the most perfect shape, as if placed
by hand for the binders. It finished its piece most gloriously." The contest was finally narrowed
down to three reapers, all American, and the champion won its laurels amid the most deafening
shouts of applause.

SHRIMPS.

Some one has said that he who first swallowed an oyster was a brave man, but many will agree
that the one who first devoured a shrimp bodily was still braver. Not but that the shrimp may
possess desirable nutritive qualities--may indeed be exceedingly palatable to those whose imaginations
are proof against the sight of its jointed legs and arms and its ugly physiognomy. But in India,
at least, where dead human bodies are often seen floating down the sacred Ganges literally
covered with these crustaceans, the appetite for them must be sensibly affected. Many of Her
Majesty's subjects there will never touch a shrimp after once witnessing this spectacle in
the Ganges. The animal, however, may not be the common shrimp (Crangon vulgaris).

Catching shrimps for market is quite an extensive industry, and in France mostly pursued by
women, who wade knee deep into the water, pushing before them a net sewed around a hoop at
the end of a long stick. A pannier or bag tied around the waist receives the animals from the
net. In winter the shrimp retires from the beach into deeper water. It is then caught in boats
with nets, made now of galvanized wire, which resists the action of the sea-water and is a
great improvement upon the old twine net. In feeding, the shrimp grasps its minute prey by
the short rake-like appendages between the legs proper and the tail, and passes it along up
to its claws, and then to the mouth. These appendages serve also as a brush when the shrimp
makes its toilet. To do this it stands as high as it can on the tips of its long legs, and
bends its head and claws under its body, and when these are duly brushed the lobes of the tail
are subjected to the same process.

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

     The Poetical Works of William Blake, Lyrical and Miscellaneous.
     Edited, with a prefatory memoir, by William Michael Rossetti.
     Boston: Roberts Brothers.

     The Poems of William Blake, comprising Songs of Innocence and
     of Experience, together with Poetical Sketches and some
     Copyright Poems not in any other edition. London: Basil Montagu
     Pickering.

It does not add to the mere delight of reading Blake's poems to know that in point of time
they preceded the writings of Cowper, Wordsworth and Burns, but assuredly it enhances our estimation
of their merit, and should have great weight in determining the literary rank of their author.
His first volume, called Poetical Sketches, printed only for private circulation after lying
for six years in manuscript, appeared in 1783, and then only by dint of the kindly efforts
of influential and prosperous friends, notably Flaxman the sculptor. The Sketches were written
between the ages of twelve and twenty. The Songs of Innocence and Experience appeared between
1787 and 1794, and were united in one volume in the latter year. It is by the poems contained
in these two volumes, although he published or left in manuscript many other compositions,
most of which are collected in one or the other of the editions now before us, that he is best
known. During his lifetime his writings never achieved any general literary success. It fared
with his poems as with his paintings, only in a minor degree: they were highly esteemed by
the initiated, by his personal friends, by a few men whose keen natural perception of genius
enabled them to discern it in spite of the eccentricity and inequality of his work; but to
the general public, on whose recognition depends the reputation of the artist, his verses as
well as his drawings were a sealed, or at least an enigmatical, book. His verses have no literary
atmosphere about them: they smell neither of the midnight oil nor of that smoke of fame the
fumes of which Byron tells us "are frankincense to human thought." They seem to have been written
as spontaneously as a bird might warble on a bough, and no bird was ever more careless of auditors
than Blake. It was not until twelve years after his death that a selection from his poems was
given to the general public by the elder Pickering, and twenty-four years after (eleven years
ago) a more general interest was created in his work, both as artist and poet, by a long and
elaborate biography of him written by Mr. Gilchrist, and accompanied by a selection from his
poems made by Mr. Rossetti. Subsequent to this publication appeared a voluminous critical essay
on his genius by Mr. Algernon Charles Swinburne. The former of these two books was calculated
to induce and foster a more general knowledge and appreciation of Blake's poetry. We can hardly
say as much for Mr. Swinburne's essay. The exaggerated and fantastical epithets of praise,
the involved and overloaded method of criticism, would have the effect upon most readers of
creating a distaste in advance for the writings so heralded. The "Prefatory Memoir" prefixed
by Mr. W. M. Rossetti to the most recent edition of the poems is of a different character,
and may be commended to all readers who are about to make acquaintance with them.

But the best and most efficient introduction that a true poet can have is the general publication
of his works. Let them speak for themselves to lovers of poetry, and no other prophet or expounder
is needed. This is no place for extended comment on Blake's characteristics as a poet. His
best songs are worthy to be ranked with those of the early Elizabethan dramatists, and they
are not like them as a copy is like an original, but rather resemble them as the inspirations
of a kindred genius. To find the superiors of some of Blake's songs we must go to Shakespeare.
The faults of his best poems are always superficial, and often mere errors of carelessness
and of the absence of literary workmanship, but the hand that strikes the keynote is the hand
of a master. Such pieces as the "Lines to the Evening Star," the songs beginning "Memory, hither
come," "How sweet I roamed from field to field!" "Love and Harmony combine," and the "Address
to the Muses," in the Sketches, are full of melody and sweetness, and have a certain lyrical
perfection in which Blake excels; while in the Songs of Innocence the poems called "Night"
and "Ah Sunflower!" seem to be equally beautiful. "A Little Boy Lost," in the Songs of Experience,
is perhaps the best known of all the poems, and is quoted, with an unlicensed change of title,
in Mr. Emerson's Parnassus. The disorder of Blake's mind, which was a very real and positive
fact, undoubtedly had a detrimental effect on his work, both in art and literature; and there
is often a sense of "sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh" as he touches on some one
of the subjects which were potent to disturb his brain. But when he sings for the love of singing,
with no memory of the outer world and its terrible problems, the solving of which lay heavy
on his heart and brain, then he is all sweetness, melody and harmony, and gives us not only
the delight of his exquisite verses, but that other joy that comes from the sense of breathing
an atmosphere of devotion, purity, and genial sweetness.

     Les Pléiades. Par le comte de Gobineau. Stockholm and Paris.

The author of this book has traveled extensively, and has been a keen observer of men and manners,
as well as a diligent student of history and ethnography. He has represented his government
in countries so remote and contrasted as Persia and Sweden, has made antiquarian researches
in the islands of the Mediterranean, has visited parts of America, and has won reputation as
a scholar and writer by a number of works on such abstruse questions as Oriental philosophy
and religion, the cuneiform inscriptions and the distinctions of race. The present book is
merely a novel, yet it was clearly intended to embody the deepest and maturest thoughts of
the author in regard to "the proper study of mankind," both individually and collectively.
The nature of man, how it is affected by diversity of circumstances, by nationality, descent,
rank and occupation, by the relations of class to class, of society to the individual, of personal
will to a controlling destiny,--this may be said to form the motive of the volume; and though
such action as there is in it takes place chiefly at the court of one of the minor states of
Germany, this narrow field was evidently selected on a similar principle to that of the Greek
drama, with its "unities" of time and place and the narratives and explanations of the Chorus.
The discussions in the book embrace all the problems of history, the characters are of different
nationalities, and are all enriched by the fruits of culture and travel, and the story is a
series of crucial tests by which, as we are to infer, the author's theories are verified. This
plan is not absolutely novel. Goethe had adopted a still slighter though far happier framework
for his ripest thoughts and profoundest observations. Yet even Goethe's exquisite art was at
fault when he sought to extend the original design; and if the first part of Wilhelm Meister
is the most perfectly constructed work in the whole range of literature, the second is merely
a heap of precious materials, with here and there such groupings and dispositions as indicate
how details had been conceived, while the general plan refused to shape itself in the master's
mind. Count Gobineau's failure is of a different kind. His story is not only grotesque in construction,
but inartistic in all its parts. In every group of incidents there is the same lack of harmony
and completeness as in the adaptation and subordination of each to the whole. Nor, with all
the author's knowledge of life and of men, has he succeeded in creating characters recognizable
as life-like and as veritable originals. Single features are well drawn, certain temperaments
are keenly analyzed, but the whole conception is never firm, consistent and complete. The simplest,
like old Lanze and his daughter Lina, are intrinsically commonplace; the most elaborated, like
Madame Tonska and the duke Jean-Théodore, waver between familiar types and questionable shadows;
and those that, like Laudon and the Gennevilliers, promise better results, are imperfectly
developed. Such defects would be fatal in a novel of the ordinary kind. But this is not a novel
of the ordinary kind. The real staple of the book consists not of the incidents and the characters,
but of discussions and reflections which sparkle with wit, with shrewd observation, and with
ingenious if not absolutely profound speculation. There are a hundred little essays in it,
compact with thought and bristling with epigram, that have an eighteenth-century flavor, and
suffuse with a sauce piquante what would otherwise have been a flavorless dish. Whether the
theory from which the title of the book is derived, and which is expounded at length in the
opening chapters, would bear a rigid examination, or was even meant to be taken seriously,
may be doubted. It is, at all events, very poorly illustrated by the characters and events
selected to exemplify it.

Books Received.

Africa: The History of Exploration and Adventure from Herodotus to Livingstone. By Charles
H. Jones. With illustrations. New York: Henry Holt & Co.

The Vatican Decrees in their bearing on Civil Allegiance. By Henry Edward, Archbishop of Westminister.
New York: Catholic Publication Society.

Six Months under the Red Cross with the French Army. By George H. Boyland. Cincinnati: Robert
Clarke & Co.

The Tower of Babel: A Poetical Drama. By Alfred Austin. Edinburgh and London: Wm. Blackwood & Sons.

Young Folks' History of the United States. By T. W. Higginson. Illustrated. Boston: Lee & Shepard.

Baby Died To-day, and Other Poems. By the late William Leighton. London: Longmans, Green & Co.

Goethe's Hermann and Dorothea. Vol. I. of German Classics. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.

Types and Emblems: A Collection of Sermons. By C. H. Spurgeon. New York: Sheldon & Co.

The Maintenance of Health. By J. M. Fothergill, M.D. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.

A Passionate Pilgrim, and Other Tales. By Henry James, Jr. Boston: James R. Osgood & Co.

Christian Belief and Life. By A. P. Peabody, D.D., LL.D. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

Ezra Stiles Gannet: A Memoir. By his son, W. C. Gannet. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

Recollections and Suggestions. By John, Earl Russell. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

Birds of the North-west. By Elliot Coues. Washington: Government Printing-office.

Morality of Prohibitory Liquor Laws. By W. B. Weeden. Boston: Roberts Bros.

Victor La Tourette: A Novel. By a Broad Churchman. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

Domus Dei. By Eleanor C. Donnelly. Philadelphia: P. F. Cunningham & Son.

Poems of Twenty Years. By Laura W. Johnson. New York: De Witt C. Lent.

Protection and Free Trade. By Isaac Butts. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons.

Mistress Judith. By C. C. Frazer Tytler. New York: Henry Holt & Co.

Generalship: A Tale. By George Roy. Cincinnati: Robert Clarke & Co.