"When he had uttered that, he paused a moment, and the echoes, one after another, from hills
that were near and hills that were far away, came flying home to us; so that I knew for once
what the prophet meant when he said that all the mountains and the hills should break forth
into singing. But before the echoes had all faded we began to hear other voices above our heads,
a great chorus, taking up the strain that the angel first had sung. At first it seemed dim
and far away; but gradually it came nearer, and filled all the air, filled all the earth, filled
all our souls with a most entrancing sweetness. Glory to God in the highest!--that was the
grandest part. It seemed as though there could be no place so high that that strain would not
mount up to it, and no place so happy that that voice would not make it thrill with new gladness.
But then came the softer tones, less grand, but even sweeter: 'Peace on earth; good will to men.'

"Oh! my boy, if you had heard that music as I did, you would not wonder when I tell you that
it has been hard for me to wait here, in the midst of the dreary noises of earth, for fifty
years before hearing it again. But earth that night was musical as heaven. You should have
heard the echoes that came back, when the angels' chorus ceased, from all these mountains and
all these little hills on every side. There is music enough even in this world, if one can
only call it forth; chords divine that will vibrate with wonderful harmony. It only needs an
angel's hand to touch the trembling strings."

"Did you see the choir of angels overhead, grandfather?"

"Nay, I saw nothing. The brightness was too dazzling for mortal eyes. We all stood there, with
downcast eyes, listening spell-bound to the wonderful melody, until the chorus ceased, and
the echoes, one after another, died away, and the glory faded out of the sky and the stars
came back again, and no sound was heard but the faint voice of a young lamb, calling for its
mother.

"The first to break the silence was my father. 'Come,' he said, in a solemn voice. 'Let us
go at once to Bethlehem, and see this thing which is come to pass, which the Lord hath made
known unto us.'

"So the sheep were quietly gathered into the fold at the tower, and we hastened to Bethlehem.
Never shall I forget that journey by night. We spake not many words, as we traveled swiftly
the twenty furlongs; talk seemed altogether tame; but now and then my father broke forth in
a song, and the others joined in the chorus. We knew not whither to go. We had only the sign
of the angel by which we should know the infant Messiah. He was a babe of one day. He was lying
in a manger.

"'Let us go to the inn Chimham,' said my father. 'It stands on the very spot where King David
was born. Peradvanture we shall find him there.'

"Over the entrance to the court of the inn a lantern was swinging from a rope stretched across
from post to post. Guided by its light, we entered, and found the courtyard full of beasts
of burden, showing that the inn was crowded with travelers. In the arched shelter of the hostelry
as many as could find room were lying; some who could not sleep were sitting up and waiting
drearily for the morning. Two aged women near the entrance, were talking in a low tone.

"'Peace be unto you!' said my father.

"'The Lord be gracious unto thee,' answered the oldest woman, in a solemn voice, as she looked
upon my father's white beard; 'but,' she quickly added, 'there is scanty cheer in this place
for late comers.'

"'We seek not lodging,' said my father; 'but know you whether among these guests is an infant
born this day?'

"'Verily there is,' answered the aged dame; 'a man-child more beautiful than any my eyes have
ever beheld. He is lying in a manger there in the cave that serves for stable.'

