HEIDI

by JOHANNA SPYRI

CONTENTS

I       Up the Mountain to Alm-Uncle II      At Home with Grandfather III     Out with the
Goats IV      The Visit to Grandmother V       Two Visits and What Came of Them VI      A New
Chapter about New Things VII     Fraulein Rottenmeier Spends an Uncomfortable Day VIII    There
is Great Commotion in the Large House IX      Herr Sesemann Hears of Things that are New to
Him X       Another Grandmother XI      Heidi Gains in One Way and Loses in Another XII   
A Ghost in the House XIII    A Summer Evening on the Mountain XIV     Sunday Bells XV     
Preparations for a journey XVI     A Visitor XVII    A Compensation XVIII   Winter in Dorfli
XIX     The Winter Continues XX      News from Distant Friends XXI     How Life went on at
Grandfather's XXII    Something Unexpected Happens XXIII   "Good-bye Till We Meet Again"

INTRODUCTION

"Heidi" is a delightful story for children of life in the Alps, one of many tales written by
the Swiss authoress, Johanna Spyri, who died in her home at Zurich in 1891. She had been well
known to the younger readers of her own country since 1880, when she published her story, Heimathlos,
which ran into three or more editions, and which, like her other books, as she states on the
title page, was written for those who love children, as well as for the youngsters themselves.
Her own sympathy with the instincts and longings of the child's heart is shown in her picture
of Heidi. The record of the early life of this Swiss child amid the beauties of her passionately
loved mountain-home and during her exile in the great town has been for many years a favorite
book of younger readers in Germany and America.

Madame Spyri, like Hans Andersen, had by temperament a peculiar skill in writing the simple
histories of an innocent world. In all her stories she shows an underlying desire to preserve
children alike from misunderstanding and the mistaken kindness that frequently hinder the happiness
and natural development of their lives and characters. The authoress, as we feel in reading
her tales, lived among the scenes and people she describes, and the setting of her stories
has the charm of the mountain scenery amid which she places her small actors.

Her chief works, besides Heidi, were:-- Am Sonntag; Arthur und Squirrel; Aus dem Leben; Aus
den Schweizer Bergen; Aus Nah und Fern; Aus unserem, Lande; Cornelli wird erzogen; Einer vom
Hause Lesa; 10 Geschichten fur Yung und Alt; Kurze Geschichten, 2 vols.; Gritli's Kinder, 2
vols.; Heimathlos; Im Tilonethal; In Leuchtensa; Keiner zu Klein Helfer zu sein; Onkel Titus;
Schloss Wildenstein; Sina; Ein Goldener Spruch; Die Hauffer Muhle; Verschollen, nicht vergessen;
Was soll deim aus ihr werden; Was aus ihr Geworden ist.                                    M.E.

HEIDI

CHAPTER I. UP THE MOUNTAIN TO ALM-UNCLE

From the old and pleasantly situated village of Mayenfeld, a footpath winds through green and
shady meadows to the foot of the mountains, which on this side look down from their stern and
lofty heights upon the valley below. The land grows gradually wilder as the path ascends, and
the climber has not gone far before he begins to inhale the fragrance of the short grass and
sturdy mountain-plants, for the way is steep and leads directly up to the summits above.

On a clear sunny morning in June two figures might be seen climbing the narrow mountain path;
one, a tall strong-looking girl, the other a child whom she was leading by the hand, and whose
little checks were so aglow with heat that the crimson color could be seen even through the
dark, sunburnt skin. And this was hardly to be wondered at, for in spite of the hot June sun
the child was clothed as if to keep off the bitterest frost. She did not look more than five
years old, if as much, but what her natural figure was like, it would have been hard to say,
for she had apparently two, if not three dresses, one above the other, and over these a thick
red woollen shawl wound round about her, so that the little body presented a shapeless appearance,
as, with its small feet shod in thick, nailed mountain-shoes, it slowly and laboriously plodded
its way up in the heat. The two must have left the valley a good hour's walk behind them, when
they came to the hamlet known as Dorfli, which is situated half-way up the mountain. Here the
wayfarers met with greetings from all sides, some calling to them from windows, some from open
doors, others from outside, for the elder girl was now in her old home. She did not, however,
pause in her walk to respond to her friends' welcoming cries and questions, but passed on without
stopping for a moment until she reached the last of the scattered houses of the hamlet. Here
a voice called to her from the door: "Wait a moment, Dete; if you are going up higher, I will
come with you."

The girl thus addressed stood still, and the child immediately let go her hand and seated herself
on the ground.

"Are you tired, Heidi?" asked her companion.

"No, I am hot," answered the child.

"We shall soon get to the top now. You must walk bravely on a little longer, and take good
long steps, and in another hour we shall be there," said Dete in an encouraging voice.

They were now joined by a stout, good-natured-looking woman, who walked on ahead with her old
acquaintance, the two breaking forth at once into lively conversation about everybody and everything
in Dorfli and its surroundings, while the child wandered behind them.

"And where are you off to with the child?" asked the one who had just joined the party. "I
suppose it is the child your sister left?"

"Yes," answered Dete. "I am taking her up to Uncle, where she must stay."

"The child stay up there with Alm-Uncle! You must be out of your senses, Dete! How can you
think of such a thing! The old man, however, will soon send you and your proposal packing off
home again!"

"He cannot very well do that, seeing that he is her grandfather. He must do something for her.
I have had the charge of the child till now, and I can tell you, Barbel, I am not going to
give up the chance which has just fallen to me of getting a good place, for her sake. It is
for the grandfather now to do his duty by her."

"That would be all very well if he were like other people," asseverated stout Barbel warmly,
"but you know what he is. And what can he do with a child, especially with one so young! The
child cannot possibly live with him. But where are you thinking of going yourself?"

"To Frankfurt, where an extra good place awaits me," answered Dete. "The people I am going
to were down at the Baths last summer, and it was part of my duty to attend upon their rooms.
They would have liked then to take me away with them, but I could not leave. Now they are there
again and have repeated their offer, and I intend to go with them, you may make up your mind
to that!"

"I am glad I am not the child!" exclaimed Barbel, with a gesture of horrified pity. "Not a
creature knows anything about the old man up there! He will have nothing to do with anybody,
and never sets his foot inside a church from one year's end to another. When he does come down
once in a while, everybody clears out of the way of him and his big stick. The mere sight of
him, with his bushy grey eyebrows and his immense beard, is alarming enough. He looks like
any old heathen or Indian, and few would care to meet him alone."

"Well, and what of that?" said Dete, in a defiant voice, "he is the grandfather all the same,
and must look after the child. He is not likely to do her any harm, and if he does, he will
be answerable for it, not I."

"I should very much like to know," continued Barbel, in an inquiring tone of voice, "what the
old man has on his conscience that he looks as he does, and lives up there on the mountain
like a hermit, hardly ever allowing himself to be seen. All kinds of things are said about
him. You, Dete, however, must certainly have learnt a good deal concerning him from your sister--am
I not right?"

"You are right, I did, but I am not going to repeat what I heard; if it should come to his
ears I should get into trouble about it."

Now Barbel had for long past been most anxious to ascertain particulars about Alm-Uncle, as
she could not understand why he seemed to feel such hatred towards his fellow-creatures, and
insisted on living all alone, or why people spoke about him half in whispers, as if afraid
to say anything against him, and yet unwilling to take his Part. Moreover, Barbel was in ignorance
as to why all the people in Dorfli called him Alm-Uncle, for he could not possibly be uncle
to everybody living there. As, however, it was the custom, she did like the rest and called
the old man Uncle. Barbel had only lived in Dorfli since her marriage, which had taken place
not long before. Previous to that her home had been below in Prattigau, so that she was not
well acquainted with all the events that had ever taken place, and with all the people who
had ever lived in Dorfli and its neighborhood. Dete, on the contrary, had been born in Dorfli,
and had lived there with her mother until the death of the latter the year before, and had
then gone over to the Baths at Ragatz and taken service in the large hotel there as chambermaid.
On the morning of this day she had come all the way from Ragatz with the child, a friend having
given them a lift in a hay-cart as far as Mayenfeld. Barbel was therefore determined not to
lose this good opportunity of satisfying her curiosity. She put her arm through Dete's in a
confidential sort of way, and said: "I know I can find out the real truth from you, and the
meaning of all these tales that are afloat about him. I believe you know the whole story. Now
do just tell me what is wrong with the old man, and if he was always shunned as he is now,
and was always such a misanthrope."

"How can I possibly tell you whether he was always the same, seeing I am only six-and-twenty
and he at least seventy years of age; so you can hardly expect me to know much about his youth.
If I was sure, however, that what I tell you would not go the whole round of Prattigau, I could
relate all kinds of things about him; my mother came from Domleschg, and so did he."

"Nonsense, Dete, what do you mean?" replied Barbel, somewhat offended, "gossip has not reached
such a dreadful pitch in Prattigau as all that, and I am also quite capable of holding my tongue
when it is necessary."

"Very well then, I will tell you--but just wait a moment," said Dete in a warning voice, and
she looked back to make sure that the child was not near enough to hear all she was going to
relate; but the child was nowhere to be seen, and must have turned aside from following her
companions some time before, while these were too eagerly occupied with their conversation
to notice it. Dete stood still and looked around her in all directions. The footpath wound
a little here and there, but could nevertheless be seen along its whole length nearly to Dorfli;
no one, however, was visible upon it at this moment.

"I see where she is," exclaimed Barbel, "look over there!" and she pointed to a spot far away
from the footpath. "She is climbing up the slope yonder with the goatherd and his goats. I
wonder why he is so late to-day bringing them up. It happens well, however, for us, for he
can now see after the child, and you can the better tell me your tale."

"Oh, as to the looking after," remarked Dete, "the boy need not put himself out about that;
she is not by any means stupid for her five years, and knows how to use her eyes. She notices
all that is going on, as I have often had occasion to remark, and this will stand her in good
stead some day, for the old man has nothing beyond his two goats and his hut."

"Did he ever have more?" asked Barbel.

"He? I should think so indeed," replied Dete with animation; "he was owner once of one of the
largest farms in Domleschg. He was the elder of two brothers; the younger was a quiet, orderly
man, but nothing would please the other but to play the grand gentleman and go driving about
the country and mixing with bad company, strangers that nobody knew. He drank and gambled away
the whole of his property, and when this became known to his mother and father they died, one
shortly after the other, of sorrow. The younger brother, who was also reduced to beggary, went
off in his anger, no one knew whither, while Uncle himself, having nothing now left to him
but his bad name, also disappeared. For some time his whereabouts were unknown, then some one
found out that he had gone to Naples as a soldier; after that nothing more was heard of him
for twelve or fifteen years. At the end of that time he reappeared in Domleschg, bringing with
him a young child, whom he tried to place with some of his kinspeople. Every door, however,
was shut in his face, for no one wished to have any more to do with him. Embittered by this
treatment, he vowed never to set foot in Domleschg again, and he then came to Dorfli, where
he continued to live with his little boy. His wife was probably a native of the Grisons, whom
he had met down there, and who died soon after their marriage. He could not have been entirely
without money, for he apprenticed his son, Tobias, to a carpenter. He was a steady lad, and
kindly received by every one in Dorfli. The old man was, however, still looked upon with suspicion,
and it was even rumoured that he had been forced to make his escape from Naples, or it might
have gone badly with him, for that he had killed a man, not in fair fight, you understand,
but in some brawl. We, however, did not refuse to acknowledge our relationship with him, my
great-grandmother on my mother's side having been sister to his grandmother. So we called him
Uncle, and as through my father we are also related to nearly every family in Dorfli, he became
known all over the place as Uncle, and since he went to live on the mountain side he has gone
everywhere by the name of Alm-Uncle."

"And what happened to Tobias?" asked Barbel, who was listening with deep interest.

"Wait a moment, I am coming to that, but I cannot tell you everything at once," replied Dete.
"Tobias was taught his trade in Mels, and when he had served his apprenticeship he came back
to Dorfli and married my sister Adelaide. They had always been fond of one another, and they
got on very well together after they were married. But their happiness did not last long. Her
husband met with his death only two years after their marriage, a beam falling upon him as
he was working, and killing him on the spot. They carried him home, and when Adelaide saw the
poor disfigured body of her husband she was so overcome with horror and grief that she fell
into a fever from which she never recovered. She had always been rather delicate and subject
to curious attacks, during which no one knew whether she was awake or sleeping. And so two
months after Tobias had been carried to the grave, his wife followed him. Their sad fate was
the talk of everybody far and near, and both in private and public the general opinion was
expressed that it was a punishment which Uncle had deserved for the godless life he had led.
Some went so far even as to tell him so to his face. Our minister endeavored to awaken his
conscience and exhorted him to repentance, but the old man grew only more wrathful and obdurate
and would not speak to a soul, and every one did their best to keep out of his way. All at
once we heard that he had gone to live up the Alm and did not intend ever to come down again,
and since then he has led his solitary life on the mountain side at enmity with God and man.
Mother and I took Adelaide's little one, then only a year old, into our care. When mother died
last year, and I went down to the Baths to earn some money, I paid old Ursel, who lives in
the village just above, to keep and look after the child. I stayed on at the Baths through
the winter, for as I could sew and knit I had no difficulty in finding plenty of work, and
early in the spring the same family I had waited on before returned from Frankfurt, and again
asked me to go back with them. And so we leave the day after to-morrow, and I can assure you,
it is an excellent place for me."

"And you are going to give the child over to the old man up there? It surprises me beyond words
that you can think of doing such a thing, Dete," said Barbel, in a voice full of reproach.

"What do you mean?" retorted Dete. "I have done my duty by the child, and what would you have
me do with it now? I cannot certainly take a child of five years old with me to Frankfurt.
But where are you going to yourself, Barbel; we are now half way up the Alm?"

"We have just reached the place I wanted," answered Barbel. "I had something to say to the
goatherd's wife, who does some spinning for me in the winter. So good-bye, Dete, and good luck
to you!"

Dete shook hands with her friend and remained standing while Barbel went towards a small, dark
brown hut, which stood a few steps away from the path in a hollow that afforded it some protection
from the mountain wind. The hut was situated half way up the Alm, reckoning from Dorfli, and
it was well that it was provided with some shelter, for it was so broken-down and dilapidated
that even then it must have been very unsafe as a habitation, for when the stormy south wind
came sweeping over the mountain, everything inside it, doors and windows, shook and rattled,
and all the rotten old beams creaked and trembled. On such days as this, had the goatherd's
dwelling been standing above on the exposed mountain side, it could not have escaped being
blown straight down into the valley without a moment's warning.

Here lived Peter, the eleven-year-old boy, who every morning went down to Dorfli to fetch his
goats and drive them up on to the mountain, where they were free to browse till evening on
the delicious mountain plants.

Then Peter, with his light-footed animals, would go running and leaping down the mountain again
till he reached Dorfli, and there he would give a shrill whistle through his fingers, whereupon
all the owners of the goats would come out to fetch home the animals that belonged to them.
It was generally the small boys and girls who ran in answer to Peter's whistle, for they were
none of them afraid of the gentle goats, and this was the only hour of the day through all
the summer months that Peter had any opportunity of seeing his young friends, since the rest
of his time was spent alone with the goats. He had a mother and a blind grandmother at home,
it is true, but he was always obliged to start off very early in the morning, and only got
home late in the evening from Dorfli, for he always stayed as long as he could talking and
playing with the other children; and so he had just time enough at home, and that was all,
to swallow down his bread and milk in the morning, and again in the evening to get through
a similar meal, lie down in bed and go to sleep. His father, who had been known also as the
goatherd, having earned his living as such when younger, had been accidentally killed while
cutting wood some years before. His mother, whose real name was Brigitta, was always called
the goatherd's wife, for the sake of old association, while the blind grandmother was just
"grandmother" to all the old and young in the neighborhood.

Dete had been standing for a good ten minutes looking about her in every direction for some
sign of the children and the goats. Not a glimpse of them, however, was to be seen, so she
climbed to a higher spot, whence she could get a fuller view of the mountain as it sloped beneath
her to the valley, while, with ever-increasing anxiety on her face and in her movements, she
continued to scan the surrounding slopes. Meanwhile the children were climbing up by a far
and roundabout way, for Peter knew many spots where all kinds of good food, in the shape of
shrubs and plants, grew for his goats, and he was in the habit of leading his flock aside from
the beaten track. The child, exhausted with the heat and weight of her thick armor of clothes,
panted and struggled after him at first with some difficulty. She said nothing, but her little
eyes kept watching first Peter, as he sprang nimbly hither and thither on his bare feet, clad
only in his short light breeches, and then the slim-legged goats that went leaping over rocks
and shrubs and up the steep ascents with even greater ease. All at once she sat herself down
on the ground, and as fast as her little fingers could move, began pulling off her shoes and
stockings. This done she rose, unwound the hot red shawl and threw it away, and then proceeded
to undo her frock. It was off in a second, but there was still another to unfasten, for Dete
had put the Sunday frock on over the everyday one, to save the trouble of carrying it. Quick
as lightning the everyday frock followed the other, and now the child stood up, clad only in
her light short-sleeved under garment, stretching out her little bare arms with glee. She put
all her clothes together in a tidy little heap, and then went jumping and climbing up after
Peter and the goats as nimbly as any one of the party. Peter had taken no heed of what the
child was about when she stayed behind, but when she ran up to him in her new attire, his face
broke into a grin, which grew broader still as he looked back and saw the small heap of clothes
lying on the ground, until his mouth stretched almost from ear to ear; he said nothing, however.
The child, able now to move at her ease, began to enter into conversation with Peter, who had
many questions to answer, for his companion wanted to know how many goats he had, where he
was going to with them, and what he had to do when he arrived there. At last, after some time,
they and the goats approached the hut and came within view of Cousin Dete. Hardly had the latter
caught sight of the little company climbing up towards her when she shrieked out: "Heidi, what
have you been doing! What a sight you have made of yourself! And where are your two frocks
and the red wrapper? And the new shoes I bought, and the new stockings I knitted for you--everything
gone! not a thing left! What can you have been thinking of, Heidi; where are all your clothes?"

The child quietly pointed to a spot below on the mountain side and answered, "Down there."
Dete followed the direction of her finger; she could just distinguish something lying on the
ground, with a spot of red on the top of it which she had no doubt was the woollen wrapper.

"You good-for-nothing little thing!" exclaimed Dete angrily, "what could have put it into your
head to do like that? What made you undress yourself? What do you mean by it?"

"I don't want any clothes," said the child, not showing any sign of repentance for her past deed.

"You wretched, thoughtless child! have you no sense in you at all?" continued Dete, scolding
and lamenting. "Who is going all that way down to fetch them; it's a good half-hour's walk!
Peter, you go off and fetch them for me as quickly as you can, and don't stand there gaping
at me, as if you were rooted to the ground!"

"I am already past my time," answered Peter slowly, without moving from the spot where he had
been standing with his hands in his pockets, listening to Dete's outburst of dismay and anger.

"Well, you won't get far if you only keep on standing there with your eyes staring out of your
head," was Dete's cross reply; "but see, you shall have something nice," and she held out a
bright new piece of money to him that sparkled in the sun. Peter was immediately up and off
down the steep mountain side, taking the shortest cut, and in an incredibly short space of
time had reached the little heap of clothes, which he gathered up under his arm, and was back
again so quickly that even Dete was obliged to give him a word of praise as she handed him
the promised money. Peter promptly thrust it into his pocket and his face beamed with delight,
for it was not often that he was the happy possessor of such riches.

"You can carry the things up for me as far as Uncle's, as you are going the same way," went
on Dete, who was preparing to continue her climb up the mountain side, which rose in a steep
ascent immediately behind the goatherd's hut. Peter willingly undertook to do this, and followed
after her on his bare feet, with his left arm round the bundle and the right swinging his goatherd's
stick, while Heidi and the goats went skipping and jumping joyfully beside him. After a climb
of more than three-quarters of an hour they reached the top of the Alm mountain. Uncle's hut
stood on a projection of the rock, exposed indeed to the winds, but where every ray of sun
could rest upon it, and a full view could be had of the valley beneath. Behind the hut stood
three old fir trees, with long, thick, unlopped branches. Beyond these rose a further wall
of mountain, the lower heights still overgrown with beautiful grass and plants, above which
were stonier slopes, covered only with scrub, that led gradually up to the steep, bare rocky
summits.

Against the hut, on the side looking towards the valley, Uncle had put up a seat. Here he was
sitting, his pipe in his mouth and his hands on his knees, quietly looking out, when the children,
the goats and Cousin Dete suddenly clambered into view. Heidi was at the top first. She went
straight up to the old man, put out her hand, and said, "Good-evening, Grandfather."

"So, so, what is the meaning of this?" he asked gruffly, as he gave the child an abrupt shake
of the hand, and gazed long and scrutinisingly at her from under his bushy eyebrows. Heidi
stared steadily back at him in return with unflinching gaze, for the grandfather, with his
long beard and thick grey eyebrows that grew together over his nose and looked just like a
bush, was such a remarkable appearance, that Heidi was unable to take her eyes off him. Meanwhile
Dete had come up, with Peter after her, and the latter now stood still a while to watch what
was going on.

"I wish you good-day, Uncle," said Dete, as she walked towards him, "and I have brought you
Tobias and Adelaide's child. You will hardly recognise her, as you have never seen her since
she was a year old."

"And what has the child to do with me up here?" asked the old man curtly. "You there," he then
called out to Peter, "be off with your goats, you are none too early as it is, and take mine
with you."

Peter obeyed on the instant and quickly disappeared, for the old man had given him a look that
made him feel that he did not want to stay any longer.

"The child is here to remain with you," Dete made answer. "I have, I think, done my duty by
her for these four years, and now it is time for you to do yours."

"That's it, is it?" said the old man, as he looked at her with a flash in his eye. "And when
the child begins to fret and whine after you, as is the way with these unreasonable little
beings, what am I to do with her then?"

"That's your affair," retorted Dete. "I know I had to put up with her without complaint when
she was left on my hands as an infant, and with enough to do as it was for my mother and self.
Now I have to go and look after my own earnings, and you are the next of kin to the child.
If you cannot arrange to keep her, do with her as you like. You will be answerable for the
result if harm happens to her, though you have hardly need, I should think, to add to the burden
already on your conscience."

Now Dete was not quite easy in her own conscience about what she was doing, and consequently
was feeling hot and irritable, and said more than she had intended. As she uttered her last
words, Uncle rose from his seat. He looked at her in a way that made her draw back a step or
two, then flinging out his arm, he said to her in a commanding voice: "Be off with you this
instant, and get back as quickly as you can to the place whence you came, and do not let me
see your face again in a hurry."

Dete did not wait to be told twice. "Good-bye to you then, and to you too, Heidi," she called,
as she turned quickly away and started to descend the mountain at a running pace, which she
did not slacken till she found herself safely again at Dorfli, for some inward agitation drove
her forwards as if a steam-engine was at work inside her. Again questions came raining down
upon her from all sides, for every one knew Dete, as well as all particulars of the birth and
former history of the child, and all wondered what she had done with it. From every door and
window came voices calling: "Where is the child?" "Where have you left the child, Dete?" and
more and more reluctantly Dete made answer, "Up there with Alm-Uncle!" "With Alm-Uncle, have
I not told you so already?"

Then the women began to hurl reproaches at her; first one cried out, "How could you do such
a thing!" then another, "To think of leaving a helpless little thing up there,"--while again
and again came the words, "The poor mite! the poor mite!" pursuing her as she went along. Unable
at last to bear it any longer Dete ran forward as fast as she could until she was beyond reach
of their voices. She was far from happy at the thought of what she had done, for the child
had been left in her care by her dying mother. She quieted herself, however, with the idea
that she would be better able to do something for the child if she was earning plenty of money,
and it was a relief to her to think that she would soon be far away from all these people who
were making such a fuss about the matter, and she rejoiced further still that she was at liberty
now to take such a good place.

CHAPTER II. AT HOME WITH GRANDFATHER

As soon as Dete had disappeared the old man went back to his bench, and there he remained seated,
staring on the ground without uttering a sound, while thick curls of smoke floated upward from
his pipe. Heidi, meanwhile, was enjoying herself in her new surroundings; she looked about
till she found a shed, built against the hut, where the goats were kept; she peeped in, and
saw it was empty. She continued her search and presently came to the fir trees behind the hut.
A strong breeze was blowing through them, and there was a rushing and roaring in their topmost
branches, Heidi stood still and listened. The sound growing fainter, she went on again, to
the farther corner of the hut, and so round to where her grandfather was sitting. Seeing that
he was in exactly the same position as when she left him, she went and placed herself in front
of the old man, and putting her hands behind her back, stood and gazed at him. Her grandfather
looked up, and as she continued standing there without moving, "What is it you want?" he asked.

"I want to see what you have inside the house," said Heidi.

"Come then!" and the grandfather rose and went before her towards the hut.

"Bring your bundle of clothes in with you," he bid her as she was following.

"I shan't want them any more," was her prompt answer.

The old man turned and looked searchingly at the child, whose dark eyes were sparkling in delighted
anticipation of what she was going to see inside. "She is certainly not wanting in intelligence,"
he murmured to himself. "And why shall you not want them any more?" he asked aloud.

"Because I want to go about like the goats with their thin light legs."

"Well, you can do so if you like," said her grandfather, "but bring the things in, we must
put them in the cupboard."

Heidi did as she was told. The old man now opened the door and Heidi stepped inside after him;
she found herself in a good- sized room, which covered the whole ground floor of the hut. A
table and a chair were the only furniture; in one corner stood the grandfather's bed, in another
was the hearth with a large kettle hanging above it; and on the further side was a large door
in the wall--this was the cupboard. The grandfather opened it; inside were his clothes, some
hanging up, others, a couple of shirts, and some socks and handkerchiefs, lying on a shelf;
on a second shelf were some plates and cups and glasses, and on a higher one still, a round
loaf, smoked meat, and cheese, for everything that Alm-Uncle needed for his food and clothing
was kept in this cupboard. Heidi, as soon as it was opened, ran quickly forward and thrust
in her bundle of clothes, as far back behind her grandfather's things as possible, so that
they might not easily be found again. She then looked carefully round the room, and asked,
"Where am I to sleep, grandfather?"

"Wherever you like," he answered.

Heidi was delighted, and began at once to examine all the nooks and corners to find out where
it would be pleasantest to sleep. In the corner near her grandfather's bed she saw a short
ladder against the wall; up she climbed and found herself in the hayloft. There lay a large
heap of fresh sweet-smelling hay, while through a round window in the wall she could see right
down the valley.

"I shall sleep up here, grandfather," she called down to him, "It's lovely, up here. Come up
and see how lovely it is!"

"Oh, I know all about it," he called up in answer.

"I am getting the bed ready now," she called down again, as she went busily to and fro at her
work, "but I shall want you to bring me up a sheet; you can't have a bed without a sheet, you
want it to lie upon."

"All right," said the grandfather, and presently he went to the cupboard, and after rummaging
about inside for a few minutes he drew out a long, coarse piece of stuff, which was all he
had to do duty for a sheet. He carried it up to the loft, where he found Heidi had already
made quite a nice bed. She had put an extra heap of hay at one end for a pillow, and had so
arranged it that, when in bed, she would be able to see comfortably out through the round window.

"That is capital," said her grandfather; "now we must put on the sheet, but wait a moment first,"
and he went and fetched another large bundle of hay to make the bed thicker, so that the child
should not feel the hard floor under her--"there, now bring it here." Heidi had got hold of
the sheet, but it was almost too heavy for her to carry; this was a good thing, however, as
the close thick stuff would prevent the sharp stalks of the hay running through and pricking
her. The two together now spread the sheet over the bed, and where it was too long or too broad,
Heidi quickly tucked it in under the hay. It looked now as tidy and comfortable a bed as you
could wish for, and Heidi stood gazing thoughtfully at her handiwork.

"We have forgotten something now, grandfather," she said after a short silence.

"What's that?" he asked.

"A coverlid; when you get into bed, you have to creep in between the sheets and the coverlid."

"Oh, that's the way, is it? But suppose I have not got a coverlid?" said the old man.

"Well, never mind, grandfather," said Heidi in a consoling tone of voice, "I can take some
more hay to put over me," and she was turning quickly to fetch another armful from the heap,
when her grandfather stopped her. "Wait a moment," he said, and he climbed down the ladder
again and went towards his bed. He returned to the loft with a large, thick sack, made of flax,
which he threw down, exclaiming, "There, that is better than hay, is it not?"

Heidi began tugging away at the sack with all her little might, in her efforts to get it smooth
and straight, but her small hands were not fitted for so heavy a job. Her grandfather came
to her assistance, and when they had got it tidily spread over the bed, it all looked so nice
and warm and comfortable that Heidi stood gazing at it in delight. "That is a splendid coverlid,"
she said, "and the bed looks lovely altogether! I wish it was night, so that I might get inside
it at once."

"I think we might have something to eat first," said the grandfather, "what do you think?"

Heidi in the excitement of bed-making had forgotten everything else; but now when she began
to think about food she felt terribly hungry, for she had had nothing to eat since the piece
of bread and little cup of thin coffee that had been her breakfast early that morning before
starting on her long, hot journey. So she answered without hesitation, "Yes, I think so too."

"Let us go down then, as we both think alike," said the old man, and he followed the child
down the ladder. Then he went up to the hearth, pushed the big kettle aside, and drew forward
the little one that was hanging on the chain, and seating himself on the round-topped, three-legged
stool before the fire, blew it up into a clear bright flame. The kettle soon began to boil,
and meanwhile the old man held a large piece of cheese on a long iron fork over the fire, turning
it round and round till it was toasted a nice golden yellow color on each side. Heidi watched
all that was going on with eager curiosity. Suddenly some new idea seemed to come into her
head, for she turned and ran to the cupboard, and then began going busily backwards and forwards.
Presently the grandfather got up and came to the table with a jug and the cheese, and there
he saw it already tidily laid with the round loaf and two plates and two knives each in its
right place; for Heidi had taken exact note that morning of all that there was in the cupboard,
and she knew which things would be wanted for their meal.

"Ah, that's right," said the grandfather, "I am glad to see that you have some ideas of your
own," and as he spoke he laid the toasted cheese on a layer of bread, "but there is still something
missing."

Heidi looked at the jug that was steaming away invitingly, and ran quickly back to the cupboard.
At first she could only see a small bowl left on the shelf, but she was not long in perplexity,
for a moment later she caught sight of two glasses further back, and without an instant's loss
of time she returned with these and the bowl and put them down on the table.

"Good, I see you know how to set about things; but what will you do for a seat?" The grandfather
himself was sitting on the only chair in the room. Heidi flew to the hearth, and dragging the
three-legged stool up to the table, sat herself down upon it.

"Well, you have managed to find a seat for yourself, I see, only rather a low one I am afraid,"
said the grandfather, "but you would not be tall enough to reach the table even if you sat
in my chair; the first thing now, however, is to have something to eat, so come along."

With that he stood up, filled the bowl with milk, and placing it on the chair, pushed it in
front of Heidi on her little three- legged stool, so that she now had a table to herself. Then
he brought her a large slice of bread and a piece of the golden cheese, and told her to eat.
After which he went and sat down on the corner of the table and began his own meal. Heidi lifted
the bowl with both hands and drank without pause till it was empty, for the thirst of all her
long hot journey had returned upon her. Then she drew a deep breath--in the eagerness of her
thirst she had not stopped to breathe--and put down the bowl.

"Was the milk nice?" asked her grandfather.

"I never drank any so good before," answered Heidi.

"Then you must have some more," and the old man filled her bowl again to the brim and set it
before the child, who was now hungrily beginning her bread having first spread it with the
cheese, which after being toasted was soft as butter; the two together tasted deliciously,
and the child looked the picture of content as she sat eating, and at intervals taking further
draughts of milk. The meal being over, the grandfather went outside to put the goat-shed in
order, and Heidi watched with interest while he first swept it out, and then put fresh straw
for the goats to sleep upon. Then he went to the little well- shed, and there he cut some long
round sticks, and a small round board; in this he bored some holes and stuck the sticks into
them, and there, as if made by magic, was a three-legged stool just like her grandfather's,
only higher. Heidi stood and looked at it, speechless with astonishment.

"What do you think that is?" asked her grandfather.

"It's my stool, I know, because it is such a high one; and it was made all of a minute," said
the child, still lost in wonder and admiration.

"She understands what she sees, her eyes are in the right place," remarked the grandfather
to himself, as he continued his way round the hut, knocking in a nail here and there, or making
fast some part of the door, and so with hammer and nails and pieces of wood going from spot
to spot, mending or clearing away wherever work of the kind was needed. Heidi followed him
step by step, her eyes attentively taking in all that he did, and everything that she saw was
a fresh source of pleasure to her.

And so the time passed happily on till evening. Then the wind began to roar louder than ever
through the old fir trees; Heidi listened with delight to the sound, and it filled her heart
so full of gladness that she skipped and danced round the old trees, as if some unheard of
joy had come to her. The grandfather stood and watched her from the shed.

Suddenly a shrill whistle was heard. Heidi paused in her dancing, and the grandfather came
out. Down from the heights above the goats came springing one after another, with Peter in
their midst. Heidi sprang forward with a cry of joy and rushed among the flock, greeting first
one and then another of her old friends of the morning. As they neared the hut the goats stood
still, and then two of their number, two beautiful slender animals, one white and one brown,
ran forward to where the grandfather was standing and began licking his hands, for he was holding
a little salt which he always had ready for his goats on their return home. Peter disappeared
with the remainder of his flock. Heidi tenderly stroked the two goats in turn, running first
to one side of them and then the other, and jumping about in her glee at the pretty little
animals. "Are they ours, grandfather? Are they both ours? Are you going to put them in the
shed? Will they always stay with us?"

Heidi's questions came tumbling out one after the other, so that her grandfather had only time
to answer each of them with "Yes, yes." When the goats had finished licking up the salt her
grandfather told her to go and fetch her bowl and the bread.

Heidi obeyed and was soon back again. The grandfather milked the white goat and filled her
basin, and then breaking off a piece of bread, "Now eat your supper," he said, "and then go
up to bed. Cousin Dete left another little bundle for you with a nightgown and other small
things in it, which you will find at the bottom of the cupboard if you want them. I must go
and shut up the goats, so be off and sleep well."

"Good-night, grandfather! good-night. What are their names, grandfather, what are their names?"
she called out as she ran after his retreating figure and the goats.

"The white one is named Little Swan, and the brown one Little Bear," he answered.

"Good-night, Little Swan, good-night, Little Bear!" she called again at the top of her voice,
for they were already inside the shed. Then she sat down on the seat and began to eat and drink,
but the wind was so strong that it almost blew her away; so she made haste and finished her
supper and then went indoors and climbed up to her bed, where she was soon lying as sweetly
and soundly asleep as any young princess on her couch of silk.

Not long after, and while it was still twilight, the grandfather also went to bed, for he was
up every morning at sunrise, and the sun came climbing up over the mountains at a very early
hour during these summer months. The wind grew so tempestuous during the night, and blew in
such gusts against the walls, that the hut trembled and the old beams groaned and creaked.
It came howling and wailing down the chimney like voices of those in pain, and it raged with
such fury among the old fir trees that here and there a branch was snapped and fell. In the
middle of the night the old man got up. "The child will be frightened," he murmured half aloud.
He mounted the ladder and went and stood by the child's bed.

Outside the moon was struggling with the dark, fast-driving clouds, which at one moment left
it clear and shining, and the next swept over it, and all again was dark. Just now the moonlight
was falling through the round window straight on to Heidi's bed. She lay under the heavy coverlid,
her cheeks rosy with sleep, her head peacefully resting on her little round arm, and with a
happy expression on her baby face as if dreaming of something pleasant. The old man stood looking
down on the sleeping child until the moon again disappeared behind the clouds and he could
see no more, then he went back to bed.

CHAPTER III. OUT WITH THE GOATS

Heidi was awakened early the next morning by a loud whistle; the sun was shining through the
round window and falling in golden rays on her bed and on the large heap of hay, and as she
opened her eyes everything in the loft seemed gleaming with gold. She looked around her in
astonishment and could not imagine for a while where she was. But her grandfather's deep voice
was now heard outside, and then Heidi began to recall all that had happened: how she had come
away from her former home and was now on the mountain with her grandfather instead of with
old Ursula. The latter was nearly stone deaf and always felt cold, so that she sat all day
either by the hearth in the kitchen or by the sitting-room stove, and Heidi had been obliged
to stay close to her, for the old woman was so deaf that she could not tell where the child
was if out of her sight. And Heidi, shut up within the four walls, had often longed to be out
of doors. So she felt very happy this morning as she woke up in her new home and remembered
all the many new things that she had seen the day before and which she would see again that
day, and above all she thought with delight of the two dear goats. Heidi jumped quickly out
of bed and a very few minutes sufficed her to put on the clothes which she had taken off the
night before, for there were not many of them. Then she climbed down the ladder and ran outside
the hut. There stood Peter already with his flock of goats, and the grandfather was just bringing
his two out of the shed to join the others. Heidi ran forward to wish good-morning to him and
the goats.

"Do you want to go with them on to the mountain?" asked her grandfather. Nothing could have
pleased Heidi better, and she jumped for joy in answer.

"But you must first wash and make yourself tidy. The sun that shines so brightly overhead will
else laugh at you for being dirty; see, I have put everything ready for you," and her grandfather
pointed as he spoke to a large tub full of water, which stood in the sun before the door. Heidi
ran to it and began splashing and rubbing, till she quite glistened with cleanliness. The grandfather
meanwhile went inside the hut, calling to Peter to follow him and bring in his wallet. Peter
obeyed with astonishment, and laid down the little bag which held his meagre dinner.

"Open it," said the old man, and inside it he put a large piece of bread and an equally large
piece of cheese, which made Peter open his eyes, for each was twice the size of the two portions
which he had for his own dinner.

"There, now there is only the little bowl to add," continued the grandfather, "for the child
cannot drink her milk as you do from the goat; she is not accustomed to that. You must milk
two bowlfuls for her when she has her dinner, for she is going with you and will remain with
you till you return this evening; but take care she does not fall over any of the rocks, do
you hear?"

Heidi now came running in. "Will the sun laugh at me now, grandfather?" she asked anxiously.
Her grandfather had left a coarse towel hanging up for her near the tub, and with this she
had so thoroughly scrubbed her face, arms, and neck, for fear of the sun, that as she stood
there she was as red all over as a lobster. He gave a little laugh.

"No, there is nothing for him to laugh at now," he assured her. "But I tell you what--when
you come home this evening, you will have to get right into the tub, like a fish, for if you
run about like the goats you will get your feet dirty. Now you can be off."

She started joyfully for the mountain. During the night the wind had blown away all the clouds;
the dark blue sky was spreading overhead, and in its midst was the bright sun shining down
on the green slopes of the mountain, where the flowers opened their little blue and yellow
cups, and looked up to him smiling. Heidi went running hither and thither and shouting with
delight, for here were whole patches of delicate red primroses, and there the blue gleam of
the lovely gentian, while above them all laughed and nodded the tender-leaved golden cistus.
Enchanted with all this waving field of brightly-colored flowers, Heidi forgot even Peter and
the goats. She ran on in front and then off to the side, tempted first one way and then the
other, as she caught sight of some bright spot of glowing red or yellow. And all the while
she was plucking whole handfuls of the flowers which she put into her little apron, for she
wanted to take them all home and stick them in the hay, so that she might make her bedroom
look just like the meadows outside. Peter had therefore to be on the alert, and his round eyes,
which did not move very quickly, had more work than they could well manage, for the goats were
as lively as Heidi; they ran in all directions, and Peter had to follow whistling and calling
and swinging his stick to get all the runaways together again.

"Where have you got to now, Heidi?" he called out somewhat crossly.

"Here," called back a voice from somewhere. Peter could see no one, for Heidi was seated on
the ground at the foot of a small hill thickly overgrown with sweet smelling prunella; the
whole air seemed filled with its fragrance, and Heidi thought she had never smelt anything
so delicious. She sat surrounded by the flowers, drawing in deep breaths of the scented air.

"Come along here!" called Peter again. "You are not to fall over the rocks, your grandfather
gave orders that you were not to do so."

"Where are the rocks?" asked Heidi, answering him back. But she did not move from her seat,
for the scent of the flowers seemed sweeter to her with every breath of wind that wafted it
towards her.

"Up above, right up above. We have a long way to go yet, so come along! And on the topmost
peak of all the old bird of prey sits and croaks."

That did it. Heidi immediately sprang to her feet and ran up to Peter with her apron full of
flowers.

"You have got enough now," said the boy as they began climbing up again together. "You will
stay here forever if you go on picking, and if you gather all the flowers now there will be
none for to-morrow."

This last argument seemed a convincing one to Heidi, and moreover her apron was already so
full that there was hardly room for another flower, and it would never do to leave nothing
to pick for another day. So she now kept with Peter, and the goats also became more orderly
in their behavior, for they were beginning to smell the plants they loved that grew on the
higher slopes and clambered up now without pause in their anxiety to reach them. The spot where
Peter generally halted for his goats to pasture and where he took up his quarters for the day
lay at the foot of the high rocks, which were covered for some distance up by bushes and fir
trees, beyond which rose their bare and rugged summits. On one side of the mountain the rock
was split into deep clefts, and the grandfather had reason to warn Peter of danger. Having
climbed as far as the halting-place, Peter unslung his wallet and put it carefully in a little
hollow of the ground, for he knew what the wind was like up there and did not want to see his
precious belongings sent rolling down the mountain by a sudden gust. Then be threw himself
at full length on the warm ground, for he was tired after all his exertions.

Heidi meanwhile had unfastened her apron and rolling it carefully round the flowers laid it
beside Peter's wallet inside the hollow; she then sat down beside his outstretched figure and
looked about her. The valley lay far below bathed in the morning sun. In front of her rose
a broad snow-field, high against the dark-blue sky, while to the left was a huge pile of rocks
on either side of which a bare lofty peak, that seemed to pierce the blue, looked frowningly
down upon, her. The child sat without moving, her eyes taking in the whole scene, and all around
was a great stillness, only broken by soft, light puffs of wind that swayed the light bells
of the blue flowers, and the shining gold heads of the cistus, and set them nodding merrily
on their slender stems. Peter had fallen asleep after his fatigue and the goats were climbing
about among the bushes overhead. Heidi had never felt so happy in her life before. She drank
in the golden sunlight, the fresh air, the sweet smell of the flowers, and wished for nothing
better than to remain there forever. So the time went on, while to Heidi, who had so often
looked up from the valley at the mountains above, these seemed now to have faces, and to be
looking down at her like old friends. Suddenly she heard a loud harsh cry overhead and lifting
her eyes she saw a bird, larger than any she had ever seen before, with great, spreading wings,
wheeling round and round in wide circles, and uttering a piercing, croaking kind of sound above
her.

"Peter, Peter, wake up!" called out Heidi. "See, the great bird is there--look, look!"

Peter got up on hearing her call, and together they sat and watched the bird, which rose higher
and higher in the blue air till it disappeared behind the grey mountain-tops.

"Where has it gone to?" asked Heidi, who had followed the bird's movements with intense interest.

"Home to its nest," said Peter.

"Is his home right up there? Oh, how nice to be up so high! why does he make that noise?"

"Because he can't help it," explained Peter.

"Let us climb up there and see where his nest is," proposed Heidi.

"Oh! oh! oh!" exclaimed Peter, his disapproval of Heidi's suggestion becoming more marked with
each ejaculation, "why even the goats cannot climb as high as that, besides didn't Uncle say
that you were not to fall over the rocks?"

Peter now began suddenly whistling and calling in such a loud manner that Heidi could not think
what was happening; but the goats evidently understood his voice, for one after the other they
came springing down the rocks until they were all assembled on the green plateau, some continuing
to nibble at the juicy stems, others skipping about here and there or pushing at each other
with their horns for pastime.

Heidi jumped up and ran in and out among them, for it was new to her to see the goats playing
together like this and her delight was beyond words as she joined in their frolics; she made
personal acquaintance with them all in turn, for they were like separate individuals to her,
each single goat having a particular way of behavior of its own. Meanwhile Peter had taken
the wallet out of the hollow and placed the pieces of bread and cheese on the ground in the
shape of a square, the larger two on Heidi's side and the smaller on his own, for he knew exactly
which were hers and which his. Then he took the little bowl and milked some delicious fresh
milk into it from the white goat, and afterwards set the bowl in the middle of the square.
Now he called Heidi to come, but she wanted more calling than the goats, for the child was
so excited and amused at the capers and lively games of her new playfellows that she saw and
heard nothing else. But Peter knew how to make himself heard, for he shouted till the very
rocks above echoed his voice, and at last Heidi appeared, and when she saw the inviting repast
spread out upon the ground she went skipping round it for joy.

"Leave off jumping about, it is time for dinner," said Peter; "sit down now and begin."

Heidi sat down. "Is the milk for me?" she asked, giving another look of delight at the beautifully
arranged square with the bowl as a chief ornament in the centre.

"Yes," replied Peter, "and the two large pieces of bread and cheese are yours also, and when
you have drunk up that milk, you are to have another bowlful from the white goat, and then
it will be my turn."

"And which do you get your milk from?" inquired Heidi.

"From my own goat, the piebald one. But go on now with your dinner," said Peter, again reminding
her it was time to eat. Heidi now took up the bowl and drank her milk, and as soon as she had
put it down empty Peter rose and filled it again for her. Then she broke off a piece of her
bread and held out the remainder, which was still larger than Peter's own piece, together with
the whole big slice of cheese to her companion, saying, "You can have that, I have plenty."

Peter looked at Heidi, unable to speak for astonishment, for never in all his life could he
have said and done like that with anything he had. He hesitated a moment, for he could not
believe that Heidi was in earnest; but the latter kept on holding out the bread and cheese,
and as Peter still did not take it, she laid it down on his knees. He saw then that she really
meant it; he seized the food, nodded his thanks and acceptance of her present, and then made
a more splendid meal than he had known ever since he was a goat-herd. Heidi the while still
continued to watch the goats. "Tell me all their names," she said.

Peter knew these by heart, for having very little else to carry in his head he had no difficulty
in remembering them. So he began, telling Heidi the name of each goat in turn as he pointed
it out to her. Heidi listened with great attention, and it was not long before she could herself
distinguish the goats from one another and could call each by name, for every goat had its
own peculiarities which could not easily be mistaken; only one had to watch them closely, and
this Heidi did. There was the great Turk with his big horns, who was always wanting to butt
the others, so that most of them ran away when they saw him coming and would have nothing to
do with their rough companion. Only Greenfinch, the slender nimble little goat, was brave enough
to face him, and would make a rush at him, three or four times in succession, with such agility
and dexterity, that the great Turk often stood still quite astounded not venturing to attack
her again, for Greenfinch was fronting him, prepared for more warlike action, and her horns
were sharp. Then there was little White Snowflake, who bleated in such a plaintive and beseeching
manner that Heidi already had several times run to it and taken its head in her hands to comfort
it. Just at this moment the pleading young cry was heard again, and Heidi jumped up running
and, putting her arms round the little creature's neck, asked in a sympathetic voice, "What
is it, little Snowflake? Why do you call like that as if in trouble?" The goat pressed closer
to Heidi in a confiding way and left off bleating. Peter called out from where he was sitting--for
he had not yet got to the end of his bread and cheese, "She cries like that because the old
goat is not with her; she was sold at Mayenfeld the day before yesterday, and so will not come
up the mountain any more."

"Who is the old goat?" called Heidi back.

"Why, her mother, of course," was the answer.

"Where is the grandmother?" called Heidi again.

"She has none."

"And the grandfather?"

"She has none."

"Oh, you poor little Snowflake!" exclaimed Heidi, clasping the animal gently to her, "but do
not cry like that any more; see now, I shall come up here with you every day, so that you will
not be alone any more, and if you want anything you have only to come to me."

The young animal rubbed its head contentedly against Heidi's shoulder, and no longer gave such
plaintive bleats. Peter now having finished his meal joined Heidi and the goats, Heidi having
by this time found out a great many things about these. She had decided that by far the handsomest
and best-behaved of the goats were undoubtedly the two belonging to her grandfather; they carried
themselves with a certain air of distinction and generally went their own way, and as to the
great Turk they treated him with indifference and contempt.

The goats were now beginning to climb the rocks again, each seeking for the plants it liked
in its own fashion, some jumping over everything they met till they found what they wanted,
others going more carefully and cropping all the nice leaves by the way, the Turk still now
and then giving the others a poke with his horns. Little Swan and Little Bear clambered lightly
up and never failed to find the best bushes, and then they would stand gracefully poised on
their pretty legs, delicately nibbling at the leaves. Heidi stood with her hands behind her
back, carefully noting all they did.

"Peter," she said to the boy who had again thrown himself down on the ground, "the prettiest
of all the goats are Little Swan and Little Bear."

"Yes, I know they are," was the answer. "Alm-Uncle brushes them down and washes them and gives
them salt, and he has the nicest shed for them."

All of a sudden Peter leaped to his feet and ran hastily after the goats. Heidi followed him
as fast as she could, for she was too eager to know what had happened to stay behind. Peter
dashed through the middle of the flock towards that side of the mountain where the rocks fell
perpendicularly to a great depth below, and where any thoughtless goat, if it went too near,
might fall over and break all its legs. He had caught sight of the inquisitive Greenfinch taking
leaps in that direction, and he was only just in time, for the animal had already sprung to
the edge of the abyss. All Peter could do was to throw himself down and seize one of her hind
legs. Greenfinch, thus taken by surprise, began bleating furiously, angry at being held so
fast and prevented from continuing her voyage of discovery. She struggled to get loose, and
endeavored so obstinately to leap forward that Peter shouted to Heidi to come and help him,
for he could not get up and was afraid of pulling out the goat's leg altogether.

Heidi had already run up and she saw at once the danger both Peter and the animal were in.
She quickly gathered a bunch of sweet-smelling leaves, and then, holding them under Greenfinch's
nose, said coaxingly, "Come, come, Greenfinch, you must not be naughty! Look, you might fall
down there and break your leg, and that would give you dreadful pain!"

The young animal turned quickly, and began contentedly eating the leaves out of Heidi's hand.
Meanwhile Peter got on to his feet again and took hold of Greenfinch by the band round her
neck from which her bell was hung, and Heidi taking hold of her in the same way on the other
side, they led the wanderer back to the rest of the flock that had remained peacefully feeding.
Peter, now he had his goat in safety, lifted his stick in order to give her a good beating
as punishment, and Greenfinch seeing what was coming shrank back in fear. But Heidi cried out,
"No, no, Peter, you must not strike her; see how frightened she is!"

"She deserves it," growled Peter, and again lifted his stick. Then Heidi flung herself against
him and cried indignantly, "You have no right to touch her, it will hurt her, let her alone!"

Peter looked with surprise at the commanding little figure, whose dark eyes were flashing,
and reluctantly he let his stick drop. "Well I will let her off if you will give me some more
of your cheese to-morrow," he said, for he was determined to have something to make up to him
for his fright.

"You shall have it all, to-morrow and every day, I do not want it," replied Heidi, giving ready
consent to his demand. "And I will give you bread as well, a large piece like you had to-day;
but then you must promise never to beat Greenfinch, or Snowflake, or any of the goats."

"All right," said Peter, "I don't care," which meant that he would agree to the bargain. He
now let go of Greenfinch, who joyfully sprang to join her companions.

And thus imperceptibly the day had crept on to its close, and now the sun was on the point
of sinking out of sight behind the high mountains. Heidi was again sitting on the ground, silently
gazing at the blue bell-shaped flowers, as they glistened in the evening sun, for a golden
light lay on the grass and flowers, and the rocks above were beginning to shine and glow. All
at once she sprang to her feet, "Peter! Peter! everything is on fire! All the rocks are burning,
and the great snow mountain and the sky! O look, look! the high rock up there is red with flame!
O the beautiful, fiery snow! Stand up, Peter! See, the fire has reached the great bird's nest!
look at the rocks! look at the fir trees! Everything, everything is on fire!"

"It is always like that," said Peter composedly, continuing to peel his stick; "but it is not
really fire."

"What is it then?" cried Heidi, as she ran backwards and forwards to look first one side and
then the other, for she felt she could not have enough of such a beautiful sight. "What is
it, Peter, what is it?" she repeated.

"It gets like that of itself," explained Peter.

"Look, look!" cried Heidi in fresh excitement, "now they have turned all rose color! Look at
that one covered with snow, and that with the high, pointed rocks! What do you call them?"

"Mountains have not any names," he answered.

"O how beautiful, look at the crimson snow! And up there on the rocks there are ever so many
roses! Oh! now they are turning grey! Oh! oh! now all the color has died away! it's all gone,
Peter." And Heidi sat down on the ground looking as full of distress as if everything had really
come to an end.

"It will come again to-morrow," said Peter. "Get up, we must go home now." He whistled to his
goats and together they all started on their homeward way.

"Is it like that every day, shall we see it every day when we bring the goats up here?" asked
Heidi, as she clambered down the mountain at Peter's side; she waited eagerly for his answer,
hoping that he would tell her it was so.

"It is like that most days," he replied.

"But will it be like that to-morrow for certain?" Heidi persisted.

"Yes, yes, to-morrow for certain," Peter assured her in answer.

Heidi now felt quite happy again, and her little brain was so full of new impressions and new
thoughts that she did not speak any more until they had reached the hut. The grandfather was
sitting under the fir trees, where he had also put up a seat, waiting as usual for his goats
which returned down the mountain on this side.

Heidi ran up to him followed by the white and brown goats, for they knew their own master and
stall. Peter called out after her, "Come with me again to-morrow! Good-night!" For he was anxious
for more than one reason that Heidi should go with him the next day.

Heidi ran back quickly and gave Peter her hand, promising to go with him, and then making her
way through the goats she once more clasped Snowflake round the neck, saying in a gentle soothing
voice, "Sleep well, Snowflake, and remember that I shall be with you again to-morrow, so you
must not bleat so sadly any more." Snowflake gave her a friendly and grateful look, and then
went leaping joyfully after the other goats.

Heidi returned to the fir-trees. "O grandfather," she cried, even before she had come up to
him, "it was so beautiful. The fire, and the roses on the rocks, and the blue and yellow flowers,
and look what I have brought you!" And opening the apron that held her flowers she shook them
all out at her grandfather's feet. But the poor flowers, how changed they were! Heidi hardly
knew them again. They looked like dry bits of hay, not a single little flower cup stood open.
"O grandfather, what is the matter with them?" exclaimed Heidi in shocked surprise, "they were
not like that this morning, why do they look so now?"

"They like to stand out there in the sun and not to be shut up in an apron," said her grandfather.

"Then I will never gather any more. But, grandfather, why did the great bird go on croaking
so?" she continued in an eager tone of inquiry.

"Go along now and get into your bath while I go and get some milk; when we are together at
supper I will tell you all about it."

Heidi obeyed, and when later she was sitting on her high stool before her milk bowl with her
grandfather beside her, she repeated her question, "Why does the great bird go on croaking
and screaming down at us, grandfather?"

"He is mocking at the people who live down below in the villages, because they all go huddling
and gossiping together, and encourage one another in evil talking and deeds. He calls out,
'If you would separate and each go your own way and come up here and live on a height as I
do, it would be better for you!'" There was almost a wildness in the old man's voice as he
spoke, so that Heidi seemed to hear the croaking of the bird again even more distinctly.

"Why haven't the mountains any names?" Heidi went on.

"They have names," answered her grandfather, "and if you can describe one of them to me that
I know I will tell you what it is called."

Heidi then described to him the rocky mountain with the two high peaks so exactly that the
grandfather was delighted. "Just so, I know it," and he told her its name. "Did you see any other?"

Then Heidi told him of the mountain with the great snow-field, and how it had been on fire,
and had turned rosy-red and then all of a sudden had grown quite pale again and all the color
had disappeared.

"I know that one too," he said, giving her its name. "So you enjoyed being out with the goats?"

Then Heidi went on to give him an account of the whole day, and of how delightful it had all
been, and particularly described the fire that had burst out everywhere in the evening. And
then nothing would do but her grandfather must tell how it came, for Peter knew nothing about it.

The grandfather explained to her that it was the sun that did it. "When he says good-night
to the mountains he throws his most beautiful colors over them, so that they may not forget
him before he comes again the next day."

Heidi was delighted with this explanation, and could hardly bear to wait for another day to
come that she might once more climb up with the goats and see how the sun bid good-night to
the mountains. But she had to go to bed first, and all night she slept soundly on her bed of
hay, dreaming of nothing but of shining mountains with red roses all over them, among which
happy little Snowflake went leaping in and out.

CHAPTER IV. THE VISIT TO GRANDMOTHER

The next morning the sun came out early as bright as ever, and then Peter appeared with the
goats, and again the two children climbed up together to the high meadows, and so it went on
day after day till Heidi, passing her life thus among the grass and flowers, was burnt brown
with the sun, and grew so strong and healthy that nothing ever ailed her. She was happy too,
and lived from day to day as free and lighthearted as the little birds that make their home
among the green forest trees. Then the autumn came, and the wind blew louder and stronger,
and the grandfather would say sometimes, "To-day you must stay at home, Heidi; a sudden gust
of the wind would blow a little thing like you over the rocks into the valley below in a moment."

Whenever Peter heard that he must go alone he looked very unhappy, for he saw nothing but mishaps
of all kinds ahead, and did not know how he should bear the long dull day without Heidi. Then,
too, there was the good meal he would miss, and besides that the goats on these days were so
naughty and obstinate that he had twice the usual trouble with them, for they had grown so
accustomed to Heidi's presence that they would run in every direction and refuse to go on unless
she was with them. Heidi was never unhappy, for wherever she was she found something to interest
or amuse her. She liked best, it is true, to go out with Peter up to the flowers and the great
bird, where there was so much to be seen, and so many experiences to go through among the goats
with their different characters; but she also found her grandfather's hammering and sawing
and carpentering very entertaining, and if it should chance to be the day when the large round
goat's-milk cheese was made she enjoyed beyond measure looking on at this wonderful performance,
and watching her grandfather, as with sleeves rolled back, he stirred the great cauldron with
his bare arms. The thing which attracted her most, however, was the waving and roaring of the
three old fir trees on these windy days. She would run away repeatedly from whatever she might
be doing, to listen to them, for nothing seemed so strange and wonderful to her as the deep
mysterious sound in the tops of the trees. She would stand underneath them and look up, unable
to tear herself away, looking and listening while they bowed and swayed and roared as the mighty
wind rushed through them. There was no longer now the warm bright sun that had shone all through
the summer, so Heidi went to the cupboard and got out her shoes and stockings and dress, for
it was growing colder every day, and when Heidi stood under the fir trees the wind blew through
her as if she was a thin little leaf, but still she felt she could not stay indoors when she
heard the branches waving outside.

Then it grew very cold, and Peter would come up early in the morning blowing on his fingers
to keep them warm. But he soon left off coming, for one night there was a heavy fall of snow
and the next morning the whole mountain was covered with it, and not a single little green
leaf was to be seen anywhere upon it. There was no Peter that day, and Heidi stood at the little
window looking out in wonderment, for the snow was beginning again, and the thick flakes kept
falling till the snow was up to the window, and still they continued to fall, and the snow
grew higher, so that at last the window could not be opened, and she and her grandfather were
shut up fast within the hut. Heidi thought this was great fun and ran from one window to the
other to see what would happen next, and whether the snow was going to cover up the whole hut,
so that they would have to light a lamp although it was broad daylight. But things did not
get as bad as that, and the next day, the snow having ceased, the grandfather went out and
shovelled away the snow round the house, and threw it into such great heaps that they looked
like mountains standing at intervals on either side the hut. And now the windows and door could
be opened, and it was well it was so, for as Heidi and her grandfather were sitting one afternoon
on their three-legged stools before the fire there came a great thump at the door followed
by several others, and then the door opened. It was Peter, who had made all that noise knocking
the snow off his shoes; he was still white all over with it, for he had had to fight his way
through deep snowdrifts, and large lumps of snow that had frozen upon him still clung to his
clothes. He had been determined, however, not to be beaten and to climb up to the hut, for
it was a week now since he had seen Heidi.

"Good-evening," he said as he came in; then he went and placed himself as near the fire as
he could without saying another word, but his whole face was beaming with pleasure at finding
himself there. Heidi looked on in astonishment, for Peter was beginning to thaw all over with
the warmth, so that he had the appearance of a trickling waterfall.

"Well, General, and how goes it with you?" said the grandfather, "now that you have lost your
army you will have to turn to your pen and pencil."

"Why must he turn to his pen and pencil?" asked Heidi immediately, full of curiosity.

"During the winter he must go to school," explained her grandfather, "and learn how to read
and write; it's a bit hard, although useful sometimes afterwards. Am I not right, General?"

"Yes, indeed," assented Peter.

Heidi's interest was now thoroughly awakened, and she had so many questions to put to Peter
about all that was to be done and seen and heard at school, and the conversation took so long
that Peter had time to get thoroughly dry. Peter had always great difficulty in putting his
thoughts into words, and he found his share of the talk doubly difficult to-day, for by the
time he had an answer ready to one of Heidi's questions she had already put two or three more
to him, and generally such as required a whole long sentence in reply.

The grandfather sat without speaking during this conversation, only now and then a twitch of
amusement at the corners of his mouth showed that he was listening.

"Well, now, General, you have been under fire for some time and must want some refreshment,
come and join us," he said at last, and as he spoke he rose and went to fetch the supper out
of the cupboard, and Heidi pushed the stools to the table. There was also now a bench fastened
against the wall, for as he was no longer alone the grandfather had put up seats of various
kinds here and there, long enough to hold two persons, for Heidi had a way of always keeping
close to her grandfather whether he was walking, sitting or standing. So there was comfortable
place for them all three, and Peter opened his round eyes very wide when he saw what a large
piece of meat Alm-Uncle gave him on his thick slice of bread. It was a long time since Peter
had had anything so nice to eat. As soon as the pleasant meal was over Peter began to get ready
for returning home, for it was already growing dark. He had said his "good-night" and his thanks,
and was just going out, when he turned again and said, "I shall come again next Sunday, this
day week, and grandmother sent word that she would like you to come and see her one day."

It was quite a new idea to Heidi that she should go and pay anybody a visit, and she could
not get it out of her head; so the first thing she said to her grandfather the next day was,
"I must go down to see the grandmother to-day; she will be expecting me."

"The snow is too deep," answered the grandfather, trying to put her off. But Heidi had made
up her mind to go, since the grandmother had sent her that message. She stuck to her intention
and not a day passed but what in the course of it she said five or six times to her grandfather,
"I must certainly go to-day, the grandmother will be waiting for me."

On the fourth day, when with every step one took the ground crackled with frost and the whole
vast field of snow was hard as ice, Heidi was sitting on her high stool at dinner with the
bright sun shining in upon her through the window, and again repeated her little speech, "I
must certainly go down to see the grandmother to-day, or else I shall keep her waiting too long."

The grandfather rose from table, climbed up to the hay-loft and brought down the thick sack
that was Heidi's coverlid, and said, "Come along then!" The child skipped out gleefully after
him into the glittering world of snow.

The old fir trees were standing now quite silent, their branches covered with the white snow,
and they looked so lovely as they glittered and sparkled in the sunlight that Heidi jumped
for joy at the sight and kept on calling out, "Come here, come here, grandfather! The fir trees
are all silver and gold!" The grandfather had gone into the shed and he now came out dragging
a large hand-sleigh along with him; inside it was a low seat, and the sleigh could be pushed
forward and guided by the feet of the one who sat upon it with the help of a pole that was
fastened to the side. After he had been taken round the fir trees by Heidi that he might see
their beauty from all sides, he got into the sleigh and lifted the child on to his lap; then
he wrapped her up in the sack, that she might keep nice and warm, and put his left arm closely
round her, for it was necessary to hold her tight during the coming journey. He now grasped
the pole with his right hand and gave the sleigh a push forward with his two feet. The sleigh
shot down the mountain side with such rapidity that Heidi thought they were flying through
the air like a bird, and shouted aloud with delight. Suddenly they came to a standstill, and
there they were at Peter's hut. Her grandfather lifted her out and unwrapped her. "There you
are, now go in, and when it begins to grow dark you must start on your way home again." Then
he left her and went up the mountain, pulling his sleigh after him.

Heidi opened the door of the hut and stepped into a tiny room that looked very dark, with a
fireplace and a few dishes on a wooden shelf; this was the little kitchen. She opened another
door, and now found herself in another small room, for the place was not a herdsman's hut like
her grandfather's, with one large room on the ground floor and a hay-loft above, but a very
old cottage, where everything was narrow and poor and shabby. A table was close to the door,
and as Heidi stepped in she saw a woman sitting at it, putting a patch on a waistcoat which
Heidi recognised at once as Peter's. In the corner sat an old woman, bent with age, spinning.
Heidi was quite sure this was the grandmother, so she went up to the spinning-wheel and said,
"Good- day, grandmother, I have come at last; did you think I was a long time coming?"

The woman raised her head and felt for the hand that the child held out to her, and when she
found it, she passed her own over it thoughtfully for a few seconds, and then said, "Are you
the child who lives up with Alm-Uncle, are you Heidi?"

"Yes, yes," answered Heidi, "I have just come down in the sleigh with grandfather."

"Is it possible! Why your hands are quite warm! Brigitta, did Alm- Uncle come himself with
the child?"

Peter's mother had left her work and risen from the table and now stood looking at Heidi with
curiosity, scanning her from head to foot. "I do not know, mother, whether Uncle came himself;
it is hardly likely, the child probably makes a mistake."

But Heidi looked steadily at the woman, not at all as if in any uncertainty, and said, "I know
quite well who wrapped me in my bedcover and brought me down in the sleigh: it was grandfather."

"There was some truth then perhaps in what Peter used to tell us of Alm-Uncle during the summer,
when we thought he must be wrong," said grandmother; "but who would ever have believed that
such a thing was possible? I did not think the child would live three weeks up there. What
is she like, Brigitta?"

The latter had so thoroughly examined Heidi on all sides that she was well able to describe
her to her mother.

"She has Adelaide's slenderness of figure, but her eyes are dark and her hair curly like her
father's and the old man's up there: she takes after both of them, I think."

Heidi meanwhile had not been idle; she had made the round of the room and looked carefully
at everything there was to be seen. All of a sudden she exclaimed, "Grandmother, one of your
shutters is flapping backwards and forwards; grandfather would put a nail in and make it all
right in a minute, or else it will break one of the panes some day; look, look, how it keeps
on banging!"

"Ah, dear child," said the old woman, "I am not able to see it, but I can hear that and many
other things besides the shutter. Everything about the place rattles and creaks when the wind
is blowing, and it gets inside through all the cracks and holes. The house is going to pieces,
and in the night, when the two others are asleep, I often lie awake in fear and trembling,
thinking that the whole place will give way and fall and kill us. And there is not a creature
to mend anything for us, for Peter does not understand such work."

"But why cannot you see, grandmother, that the shutter is loose. Look, there it goes again,
see, that one there!" And Heidi pointed to the particular shutter.

"Alas, child, it is not only that I cannot see--I can see, nothing, nothing," said the grandmother
in a voice of lamentation.

"But if I were to go outside and put back the shutter so that you had more light, then you
could see, grandmother?"

"No, no, not even then, no one can make it light for me again."

"But if you were to go outside among all the white snow, then surely you would find it light;
just come with me, grandmother, and I will show you." Heidi took hold of the old woman's hand
to lead her along, for she was beginning to feel quite distressed at the thought of her being
without light.

"Let me be, dear child; it is always dark for me now; whether in snow or sun, no light can
penetrate my eyes."

"But surely it does in summer, grandmother," said Heidi, more and more anxious to find some
way out of the trouble, "when the hot sun is shining down again, and he says good-night to
the mountains, and they all turn on fire, and the yellow flowers shine like gold, then, you
will see, it will be bright and beautiful for you again."

"Ah, child, I shall see the mountains on fire or the yellow flowers no more; it will never
be light for me again on earth, never."

At these words Heidi broke into loud crying. In her distress she kept on sobbing out, "Who
can make it light for you again? Can no one do it? Isn't there any one who can do it?"

The grandmother now tried to comfort the child, but it was not easy to quiet her. Heidi did
not often weep, but when she did she could not get over her trouble for a long while. The grandmother
had tried all means in her power to allay the child's grief, for it went to her heart to hear
her sobbing so bitterly. At last she said, "Come here, dear Heidi, come and let me tell you
something. You cannot think how glad one is to hear a kind word when one can no longer see,
and it is such a pleasure to me to listen to you while you talk. So come and sit beside me
and tell me something; tell me what you do up there, and how grandfather occupies himself.
I knew him very well in old days; but for many years now I have heard nothing of him, except
through Peter, who never says much."

This was a new and happy idea to Heidi; she quickly dried her tears and said in a comforting
voice, "Wait, grandmother, till I have told grandfather everything, he will make it light for
you again, I am sure, and will do something so that the house will not fall; he will put everything
right for you."

The grandmother was silent, and Heidi now began to give her a lively description of her life
with the grandfather, and of the days she spent on the mountain with the goats, and then went
on to tell her of what she did now during the winter, and how her grandfather was able to make
all sorts of things, seats and stools, and mangers where the hay was put for Little Swan and
Little Bear, besides a new large water-tub for her to bathe in when the summer came, and a
new milk-bowl and spoon, and Heidi grew more and more animated as she enumerated all the beautiful
things which were made so magically out of pieces of wood; she then told the grandmother how
she stood by him and watched all he did, and how she hoped some day to be able to make the
same herself.

The grandmother listened with the greatest attention, only from time to time addressing her
daughter, "Do you hear that, Brigitta? Do you hear what she is saying about Uncle?"

The conversation was all at once interrupted by a heavy thump on the door, and in marched Peter,
who stood stock-still, opening his eyes with astonishment, when he caught sight of Heidi; then
his face beamed with smiles as she called out, "Good-evening, Peter."

"What, is the boy back from school already?" exclaimed the grandmother in surprise. "I have
not known an afternoon pass so quickly as this one for years. How is the reading getting on,
Peter?"

"Just the same," was Peter's answer.

The old woman gave a little sigh. "Ah, well," she said, "I hoped you would have something different
to tell me by this time, as you are going to be twelve years old this February."

"What was it that you hoped he would have to tell you?" asked Heidi, interested in all the
grandmother said.

"I mean that he ought to have learnt to read a bit by now," continued the grandmother. "Up
there on the shelf is an old prayer-book, with beautiful songs in it which I have not heard
for a long time and cannot now remember to repeat to myself, and I hoped that Peter would soon
learn enough to be able to read one of them to me sometimes; but he finds it too difficult."

"I must get a light, it is getting too dark to see," said Peter's mother, who was still busy
mending his waistcoat. "I feel too as if the afternoon had gone I hardly know how."

Heidi now jumped up from her low chair, and holding out her hand hastily to the grandmother
said, "Good-night, grandmother, if it is getting dark I must go home at once," and bidding
good-bye to Peter and his mother she went towards the door. But the grandmother called out
in an anxious voice, "Wait, wait, Heidi; you must not go alone like that, Peter must go with
you; and take care of the child, Peter, that she does not fall, and don't let her stand still
for fear she should get frozen, do you hear? Has she got anything warm to put around her throat?"

"I have not anything to put on," called back Heidi, "but I am sure I shall not be cold," and
with that she ran outside and went off at such a pace that Peter had difficulty in overtaking
her. The grandmother, still in distress, called out to her daughter, "Run after her, Brigitta;
the child will be frozen to death on such a night as this; take my shawl, run quickly!"

Brigitta ran out. But the children had taken but a few steps before they saw the grandfather
coming down to meet them, and in another minute his long strides had brought him to their side.

"That's right, Heidi; you have kept your word," said the grandfather, and then wrapping the
sack firmly round her he lifted her in his arms and strode off with her up the mountain. Brigitta
was just in time to see him do all this, and on her return to the hut with Peter expressed
her astonishment to the grandmother. The latter was equally surprised, and kept on saying,
"God be thanked that he is good to the child, God be thanked! Will he let her come to me again,
I wonder! the child has done me so much good. What a loving little heart it is, and how merrily
she tells her tale!" And she continued to dwell with delight on the thought of the child until
she went to bed, still saying now and again, "If only she will come again! Now I have really
something left in the world to take pleasure in." And Brigitta agreed with all her mother said,
and Peter nodded his head in approval each time his grandmother spoke, saying, with a broad
smile of satisfaction, "I told you so!"

Meanwhile Heidi was chattering away to her grandfather from inside her sack; her voice, however,
could not reach him through the many thick folds of her wrap, and as therefore it was impossible
to understand a word she was saying, he called to her, "Wait till we get home, and then you
can tell me all about it." They had no sooner got inside the hut than Heidi, having been released
from her covering, at once began what she had to say, "Grandfather, to-morrow we must take
the hammer and the long nails and fasten grandmother's shutter, and drive in a lot more nails
in other places, for her house shakes and rattles all over."

"We must, must we? who told you that?" asked her grandfather.

"Nobody told me, but I know it for all that," replied Heidi, "for everything is giving way,
and when the grandmother cannot sleep, she lies trembling for fear at the noise, for she thinks
that every minute the house will fall down on their heads; and everything now is dark for grandmother,
and she does not think any one can make it light for her again, but you will be able to, I
am sure, grandfather. Think how dreadful it is for her to be always in the dark, and then to
be frightened at what may happen, and nobody can help her but you. To-morrow we must go and
help her; we will, won't we, grandfather?"

The child was clinging to the old man and looking up at him in trustful confidence. The grandfather
looked down at Heidi for a while without speaking, and then said, "Yes, Heidi, we will do something
to stop the rattling, at least we can do that; we will go down about it to-morrow!"

The child went skipping round the room for joy, crying out, "We shall go to-morrow! we shall
go to-morrow!"

The grandfather kept his promise. On the following afternoon he brought the sleigh out again,
and as on the previous day, he set Heidi down at the door of the grandmother's hut and said,
"Go in now, and when it grows dark, come out again." Then he put the sack in the sleigh and
went round the house.

Heidi had hardly opened the door and sprung into the room when the grandmother called out from
her corner, "It's the child again! here she comes!" and in her delight she let the thread drop
from her fingers, and the wheel stood still as she stretched out both her hands in welcome.
Heidi ran to her, and then quickly drew the little stool close up to the old woman, and seating
herself upon it, began to tell and ask her all kinds of things. All at once came the sound
of heavy blows against the wall of the hut and the grandmother gave such a start of alarm that
she nearly upset the spinning-wheel, and cried in a trembling voice, "Ah, my God, now it is
coming, the house is going to fall upon us!" But Heidi caught her by the arm, and said soothingly,
"No, no, grandmother, do not be frightened, it is only grandfather with his hammer; he is mending
up everything, so that you shan't have such fear and trouble."

"Is it possible! is it really possible! so the dear God has not forgotten us!" exclaimed the
grandmother. "Do you hear, Brigitta, what that noise is? Did you hear what the child says?
Now, as I listen, I can tell it is a hammer; go outside, Brigitta, and if it is Alm-Uncle,
tell him he must come inside a moment that I may thank him."

Brigitta went outside and found Alm-Uncle in the act of fastening some heavy pieces of new
wood along the wall. She stepped up to him and said, "Good-evening, Uncle, mother and I have
to thank you for doing us such a kind service, and she would like to tell you herself how grateful
she is; I do not know who else would have done it for us; we shall not forget your kindness,
for I am sure--"

"That will do," said the old man, interrupting her.

"I know what you think of Alm-Uncle without your telling me. Go indoors again, I can find out
for myself where the mending is wanted."

Brigitta obeyed on the spot, for Uncle had a way with him that made few people care to oppose
his will. He went on knocking with his hammer all round the house, and then mounted the narrow
steps to the roof, and hammered away there, until he had used up all the nails he had brought
with him. Meanwhile it had been growing dark, and he had hardly come down from the roof and
dragged the sleigh out from behind the goat-shed when Heidi appeared outside. The grandfather
wrapped her up and took her in his arms as he had done the day before, for although he had
to drag the sleigh up the mountain after him, he feared that if the child sat in it alone her
wrappings would fall off and that she would be nearly if not quite frozen, so he carried her
warm and safe in his arms.

So the winter went by. After many years of joyless life, the blind grandmother had at last
found something to make her happy; her days were no longer passed in weariness and darkness,
one like the other without pleasure or change, for now she had always something to which she
could look forward. She listened for the little tripping footstep as soon as day had come,
and when she heard the door open and knew the child was really there, she would call out, "God
be thanked, she has come again!" And Heidi would sit by her and talk and tell her everything
she knew in so lively a manner that the grandmother never noticed how the time went by, and
never now as formerly asked Brigitta, "Isn't the day done yet?" but as the child shut the door
behind her on leaving, would exclaim, "How short the afternoon has seemed; don't you think
so, Brigitta?" And this one would answer, "I do indeed; it seems as if I had only just cleared
away the mid-day meal." And the grandmother would continue, "Pray God the child is not taken
from me, and that Alm-Uncle continues to let her come! Does she look well and strong, Brigitta?"
And the latter would answer, "She looks as bright and rosy as an apple."

And Heidi had also grown very fond of the old grandmother, and when at last she knew for certain
that no one could make it light for her again, she was overcome with sorrow; but the grandmother
told her again that she felt the darkness much less when Heidi was with her, and so every fine
winter's day the child came travelling down in her sleigh. The grandfather always took her,
never raising any objection, indeed he always carried the hammer and sundry other things down
in the sleigh with him, and many an afternoon was spent by him in making the goatherd's cottage
sound and tight. It no longer groaned and rattled the whole night through, and the grandmother,
who for many winters had not been able to sleep in peace as she did now, said she should never
forget what the Uncle had done for her.

CHAPTER V. TWO VISITS AND WHAT CAME OF THEM

Quickly the winter passed, and still more quickly the bright glad summer, and now another winter
was drawing to its close. Heidi was still as light-hearted and happy as the birds, and looked
forward with more delight each day to the coming spring, when the warm south wind would roar
through the fir trees and blow away the snow, and the warm sun would entice the blue and yellow
flowers to show their heads, and the long days out on the mountain would come again, which
seemed to Heidi the greatest joy that the earth could give. Heidi was now in her eighth year;
she had learnt all kinds of useful things from her grandfather; she knew how to look after
the goats as well as any one, and Little Swan and Bear would follow her like two faithful dogs,
and give a loud bleat of pleasure when they heard her voice. Twice during the course of this
last winter Peter had brought up a message from the schoolmaster at Dorfli, who sent word to
Alm- Uncle that he ought to send Heidi to school, as she was over the usual age, and ought
indeed to have gone the winter before. Uncle had sent word back each time that the schoolmaster
would find him at home if he had anything he wished to say to him, but that he did not intend
to send Heidi to school, and Peter had faithfully delivered his message.

When the March sun had melted the snow on the mountain side and the snowdrops were peeping
out all over the valley, and the fir trees had shaken off their burden of snow and were again
merrily waving their branches in the air, Heidi ran backwards and forwards with delight first
to the goat-shed then to the fir- trees, and then to the hut-door, in order to let her grandfather
know how much larger a piece of green there was under the trees, and then would run off to
look again, for she could hardly wait till everything was green and the full beautiful summer
had clothed the mountain with grass and flowers. As Heidi was thus running about one sunny
March morning, and had just jumped over the water-trough for the tenth time at least, she nearly
fell backwards into it with fright, for there in front of her, looking gravely at her, stood
an old gentleman dressed in black. When he saw how startled she was, he said in a kind voice,
"Don't be afraid of me, for I am very fond of children. Shake hands! You must be the Heidi
I have heard of; where is your grandfather?"

"He is sitting by the table, making round wooden spoons," Heidi informed him, as she opened
the door.

He was the old village pastor from Dorfli who had been a neighbor of Uncle's when he lived
down there, and had known him well. He stepped inside the hut, and going up to the old man,
who was bending over his work, said, "Good-morning, neighbor."

The grandfather looked up in surprise, and then rising said, "Good-morning" in return. He pushed
his chair towards the visitor as he continued, "If you do not mind a wooden seat there is one
for you."

The pastor sat down. "It is a long time since I have seen you, neighbor," he said.

"Or I you," was the answer.

"I have come to-day to talk over something with you," continued the pastor. "I think you know
already what it is that has brought me here," and as he spoke he looked towards the child who
was standing at the door, gazing with interest and surprise at the stranger.

"Heidi, go off to the goats," said her grandfather. "You take them a little salt and stay with
them till I come."

Heidi vanished on the spot.

"The child ought to have been at school a year ago, and most certainly this last winter," said
the pastor. "The schoolmaster sent you word about it, but you gave him no answer. What are
you thinking of doing with the child, neighbor?"

"I am thinking of not sending her to school," was the answer.

The visitor, surprised, looked across at the old man, who was sitting on his bench with his
arms crossed and a determined expression about his whole person.

"How are you going to let her grow up then?" he asked.

"I am going to let her grow up and be happy among the goats and birds; with them she is safe,
and will learn nothing evil."

"But the child is not a goat or a bird, she is a human being. If she learns no evil from these
comrades of hers, she will at the same time learn nothing; but she ought not to grow up in
ignorance, and it is time she began her lessons. I have come now that you may have leisure
to think over it, and to arrange about it during the summer. This is the last winter that she
must be allowed to run wild; next winter she must come regularly to school every day."

"She will do no such thing," said the old man with calm determination.

"Do you mean that by no persuasion can you be brought to see reason, and that you intend to
stick obstinately to your decision?" said the pastor, growing somewhat angry. "You have been
about the world, and must have seen and learnt much, and I should have given you credit for
more sense, neighbor."

"Indeed," replied the old man, and there was a tone in his voice that betrayed a growing irritation
on his part too, "and does the worthy pastor really mean that he would wish me next winter
to send a young child like that some miles down the mountain on ice-cold mornings through storm
and snow, and let her return at night when the wind is raging, when even one like ourselves
would run a risk of being blown down by it and buried in the snow? And perhaps he may not have
forgotten the child's mother, Adelaide? She was a sleep-walker, and had fits. Might not the
child be attacked in the same way if obliged to over-exert herself? And some one thinks they
can come and force me to send her? I will go before all the courts of justice in the country,
and then we shall see who will force me to do it!"

"You are quite right, neighbor," said the pastor in a friendly tone of voice. "I see it would
have been impossible to send the child to school from here. But I perceive that the child is
dear to you; for her sake do what you ought to have done long ago: come down into Dorfli and
live again among your fellowmen. What sort of a life is this you lead, alone, and with bitter
thoughts towards God and man! If anything were to happen to you up here who would there be
to help you? I cannot think but what you must be half-frozen to death in this hut in the winter,
and I do not know how the child lives through it!"

"The child has young blood in her veins and a good roof over her head, and let me further tell
the pastor, that I know where wood is to be found, and when is the proper time to fetch it;
the pastor can go and look inside my wood-shed; the fire is never out in my hut the whole winter
through. As to going to live below that is far from my thoughts; the people despise me and
I them; it is therefore best for all of us that we live apart."

"No, no, it is not best for you; I know what it is you lack," said the pastor in an earnest
voice. "As to the people down there looking on you with dislike, it is not as bad as you think.
Believe me, neighbor; seek to make your peace with God, pray for forgiveness where you need
it, and then come and see how differently people will look upon you, and how happy you may yet be."

The pastor had risen and stood holding out his hand to the old man as he added with renewed
earnestness, "I will wager, neighbor, that next winter you will be down among us again, and
we shall be good neighbors as of old. I should be very grieved if any pressure had to be put
upon you; give me your hand and promise me that you will come and live with us again and become
reconciled to God and man."

Alm-Uncle gave the pastor his hand and answered him calmly and firmly, "You mean well by me
I know, but as to that which you wish me to do, I say now what I shall continue to say, that
I will not send the child to school nor come and live among you."

"Then God help you!" said the pastor, and he turned sadly away and left the hut and went down
the mountain.

Alm-Uncle was out of humor. When Heidi said as usual that afternoon, "Can we go down to grandmother
now?" he answered, "Not to-day." He did not speak again the whole of that day, and the following
morning when Heidi again asked the same question, he replied, "We will see." But before the
dinner bowls had been cleared away another visitor arrived, and this time it was Cousin Dete.
She had a fine feathered hat on her head, and a long trailing skirt to her dress which swept
the floor, and on the floor of a goatherd's hut there are all sorts of things that do not belong
to a dress.

The grandfather looked her up and down without uttering a word. But Dete was prepared with
an exceedingly amiable speech and began at once to praise the looks of the child. She was looking
so well she should hardly have known her again, and it was evident that she had been happy
and well-cared for with her grandfather; but she had never lost sight of the idea of taking
the child back again, for she well understood that the little one must be much in his way,
but she had not been able to do it at first. Day and night, however, she had thought over the
means of placing the child somewhere, and that was why she had come to- day, for she had just
heard of something that would be a lucky chance for Heidi beyond her most ambitious hopes.
Some immensely wealthy relatives of the people she was serving, who had the most splendid house
almost in Frankfurt, had an only daughter, young and an invalid, who was always obliged to
go about in a wheeled chair; she was therefore very much alone and had no one to share her
lessons, and so the little girl felt dull. Her father had spoken to Dete's mistress about finding
a companion for her, and her mistress was anxious to help in the matter, as she felt so sympathetic
about it. The lady-housekeeper had described the sort of child they wanted, simple-minded and
unspoilt, and not like most of the children that one saw now-a- days. Dete had thought at once
of Heidi and had gone off without delay to see the lady-housekeeper, and after Dete had given
her a description of Heidi, she had immediately agreed to take her. And no one could tell what
good fortune there might not be in store for Heidi, for if she was once with these people and
they took a fancy to her, and anything happened to their own daughter--one could never tell,
the child was so weakly--and they did not feel they could live without a child, why then the
most unheard of luck--

"Have you nearly finished what you had to say?" broke in Alm- Uncle, who had allowed her to
talk on uninterruptedly so far.

"Ugh!" exclaimed Dete, throwing up her head in disgust, "one would think I had been talking
to you about the most ordinary matter; why there is not one person in all Prattigau who would
not thank God if I were to bring them such a piece of news as I am bringing you."

"You may take your news to anybody you like, I will have nothing to do with it."

But now Dete leaped up from her seat like a rocket and cried, "If that is all you have to say
about it, why then I will give you a bit of my mind. The child is now eight years old and knows
nothing, and you will not let her learn. You will not send her to church or school, as I was
told down in Dorfli, and she is my own sister's child. I am responsible for what happens to
her, and when there is such a good opening for a child, as this which offers for Heidi, only
a person who cares for nobody and never wishes good to any one would think of not jumping at
it. But I am not going to give in, and that I tell you; I have everybody in Dorfli on my side;
there is not one person there who will not take my part against you; and I advise you to think
well before bringing it into court, if that is your intention; there are certain things which
might be brought up against you which you would not care to hear, for when one has to do with
law-courts there is a great deal raked up that had been forgotten."

"Be silent!" thundered the Uncle, and his eyes flashed with anger. "Go and be done with you!
and never let me see you again with your hat and feather, and such words on your tongue as
you come with today!" And with that he strode out of the hut.

"You have made grandfather angry," said Heidi, and her dark eyes had anything but a friendly
expression in them as she looked at Dete.

"He will soon be all right again; come now," said Dete hurriedly, "and show me where your clothes
are."

"I am not coming," said Heidi.

"Nonsense," continued Dete; then altering her tone to one half- coaxing, half-cross, "Come,
come, you do not understand any better than your grandfather; you will have all sorts of good
things that you never dreamed of." Then she went to the cupboard and taking out Heidi's things
rolled them up in a bundle. "Come along now, there's your hat; it is very shabby but will do
for the present; put it on and let us make haste off."

"I am not coming," repeated Heidi.

"Don't be so stupid and obstinate, like a goat; I suppose it's from the goats you have learnt
to be so. Listen to me: you saw your grandfather was angry and heard what he said, that he
did not wish to see us ever again; he wants you now to go away with me and you must not make
him angrier still. You can't think how nice it is at Frankfurt, and what a lot of things you
will see, and if you do not like it you can come back again; your grandfather will be in a
good temper again by that time."

"Can I return at once and be back home again here this evening?" asked Heidi.

"What are you talking about, come along now! I tell you that you can come back here when you
like. To-day we shall go as far as Mayenfeld, and early to-morrow we shall start in the train,
and that will bring you home again in no time when you wish it, for it goes as fast as the wind."

Dete had now got the bundle under her arm and the child by the hand, and so they went down
the mountain together.

As it was still too early in the year to take his goats out, Peter continued to go to school
at Dorfli, but now and again he stole a holiday, for he could see no use in learning to read,
while to wander about a bit and look for stout sticks which might be wanted some day he thought
a far better employment. As Dete and Heidi neared the grandmother's hut they met Peter coming
round the corner; he had evidently been well rewarded that day for his labors, for he was carrying
an immense bundle of long thick hazel sticks on his shoulders. He stood still and stared at
the two approaching figures; as they came up to him, he exclaimed, "Where are you going, Heidi?"

"I am only just going over to Frankfurt for a little visit with Dete," she replied; "but I
must first run in to grandmother, she will be expecting me."

"No, no, you must not stop to talk; it is already too late," said Dete, holding Heidi, who
was struggling to get away, fast by the hand. "You can go in when you come back, you must come
along now," and she pulled the child on with her, fearing that if she let her go in Heidi might
take it into her head again that she did not wish to come, and that the grandmother might stand
by her. Peter ran into the hut and banged against the table with his bundle of sticks with
such violence that everything in the room shook, and his grandmother leaped up with a cry of
alarm from her spinning-wheel. Peter had felt that he must give vent to his feelings somehow.

"What is the matter? What is the matter?" cried the frightened old woman, while his mother,
who had also started up from her seat at the shock, said in her usual patient manner, "What
is it, Peter? why do you behave so roughly?"

"Because she is taking Heidi away," explained Peter.

"Who? who? where to, Peter, where to?" asked the grandmother, growing still more agitated;
but even as she spoke she guessed what had happened, for Brigitta had told her shortly before
that she had seen Dete going up to Alm-Uncle. The old woman rose hastily and with trembling
hands opened the window and called out beseechingly, "Dete, Dete, do not take the child away
from us! do not take her away!"

The two who were hastening down the mountain heard her voice, and Dete evidently caught the
words, for she grasped Heidi's hand more firmly. Heidi struggled to get free, crying, "Grandmother
is calling, I must go to her."

But Dete had no intention of letting the child go, and quieted her as best she could; they
must make haste now, she said, or they would be too late and not able to go on the next day
to Frankfurt, and there the child would see how delightful it was, and Dete was sure would
not wish to go back when she was once there. But if Heidi wanted to return home she could do
so at once, and then she could take something she liked back to grandmother. This was a new
idea to Heidi, and it pleased her so much that Dete had no longer any difficulty in getting
her along.

After a few minutes' silence, Heidi asked, "What could I take back to her?"

"We must think of something nice," answered Dete; "a soft roll of white bread; she would enjoy
that, for now she is old she can hardly eat the hard, black bread."

"No, she always gives it back to Peter, telling him it is too hard, for I have seen her do
it myself," affirmed Heidi. "Do let us make haste, for then perhaps we can get back soon from
Frankfurt, and I shall be able to give her the white bread to- day." And Heidi started off
running so fast that Dete with the bundle under her arm could scarcely keep up with her. But
she was glad, nevertheless, to get along so quickly, for they were nearing Dorfli, where her
friends would probably talk and question in a way that might put other ideas into Heidi's head.
So she went on straight ahead through the village, holding Heidi tightly by the hand, so that
they might all see that it was on the child's account she was hurrying along at such a rate.
To all their questions and remarks she made answer as she passed "I can't stop now, as you
see, I must make haste with the child as we have yet some way to go."

"Are you taking her away?" "Is she running away from Alm-Uncle?" "It's a wonder she is still
alive!" "But what rosy cheeks she has!" Such were the words which rang out on all sides, and
Dete was thankful that she had not to stop and give any distinct answers to them, while Heidi
hurried eagerly forward without saying a word.

From that day forward Alm-Uncle looked fiercer and more forbidding than ever when he came down
and passed through Dorfli. He spoke to no one, and looked such an ogre as he came along with
his pack of cheeses on his back, his immense stick in his hand, and his thick, frowning eyebrows,
that the women would call to their little ones, "Take care! get out of Alm-Uncle's way or he
may hurt you!"

The old man took no notice of anybody as he strode through the village on his way to the valley
below, where he sold his cheeses and bought what bread and meat he wanted for himself. After
he had passed the villagers all crowded together looking after him, and each had something
to say about him; how much wilder he looked than usual, how now he would not even respond to
anybody's greeting, while they all agreed that it was a great mercy the child had got away
from him, and had they not all noticed how the child had hurried along as if afraid that her
grandfather might be following to take her back? Only the blind grandmother would have nothing
to say against him, and told those who came to her to bring her work, or take away what she
had spun, how kind and thoughtful he had been with the child, how good to her and her daughter,
and how many afternoons he had spent mending the house which, but for his help, would certainly
by this time have fallen down over their heads. And all this was repeated down in Dorfli; but
most of the people who heard it said that grandmother was too old to understand, and very likely
had not heard rightly what was said; as she was blind she was probably also deaf.

Alm-Uncle went no more now to the grandmother's house, and it was well that he had made it
so safe, for it was not touched again for a long time. The days were sad again now for the
old blind woman, and not one passed but what she would murmur complainingly, "Alas! all our
happiness and pleasure have gone with the child, and now the days are so long and dreary! Pray
God, I see Heidi again once more before I die!"

CHAPTER VI. A NEW CHAPTER ABOUT NEW THINGS

In her home at Frankfurt, Clara, the little daughter of Herr Sesemann, was lying on the invalid
couch on which she spent her whole day, being wheeled in it from room to room. Just now she
was in what was known as the study, where, to judge by the various things standing and lying
about, which added to the cosy appearance of the room, the family was fond of sitting. A handsome
bookcase with glass doors explained why it was called the study, and here evidently the little
girl was accustomed to have her lessons.

Clara's little face was thin and pale, and at this moment her two soft blue eyes were fixed
on the clock, which seemed to her to go very slowly this day, and with a slight accent of impatience,
which was very rare with her, she asked, "Isn't it time yet, Fraulein Rottenmeier?"

This lady was sitting very upright at a small work-table, busy with her embroidery. She had
on a mysterious-looking loose garment, a large collar or shoulder-cape that gave a certain
solemnity to her appearance, which was enhanced by a very lofty dome-shaped head dress. For
many years past, since the mistress of the house had died, the housekeeping and the superintendence
of the servants had been entrusted by Herr Sesemann to Fraulein Rottenmeier. He himself was
often away from home, and he left her in sole charge, with the condition only that his little
daughter should have a voice in all matters, and that nothing should be done against her wish.

As Clara was putting her impatient question for the second time, Dete and Heidi arrived at
the front door, and the former inquired of the coachman, who had just got down from his box,
if it was too late to see Fraulein Rottenmeier.

"That's not my business," grumbled the coachman; "ring the bell in the hall for Sebastian."

Dete did so, and Sebastian came downstairs; he looked astonished when he saw her, opening his
eyes till they were nearly as big as the large round buttons on his coat.

"Is it too late for me to see Fraulein Rottenmeier?" Dete asked again.

"That's not my business," answered the man; "ring that other bell for the maid Tinette," and
without troubling himself any farther Sebastian disappeared.

Dete rang again. This time Tinette appeared with a spotless white cap perched on the top of
her head and a mocking expression of face.

"What is it?" she called from the top of the stairs. Dete repeated her question. Tinette disappeared,
but soon came back and called down again to Dete, "Come up, she is expecting you."

Dete and Heidi went upstairs and into the study, Tinette following. Dete remained standing
politely near the door, still holding Heidi tightly by the hand, for she did not know what
the child might take it into her head to do amid these new surroundings.

Fraulein Rottenmeier rose slowly and went up to the little new companion for the daughter of
the house, to see what she was like. She did not seem very pleased with her appearance. Heidi
was dressed in her plain little woollen frock, and her hat was an old straw one bent out of
shape. The child looked innocently out from beneath it, gazing with unconcealed astonishment
at the lady's towering head dress.

"What is your name?" asked Fraulein Rottenmeier, after scrutinisingly examining the child for
some minutes, while Heidi in return kept her eyes steadily fixed upon the lady.

"Heidi," she answered in a clear, ringing voice.

"What? what? that's no Christian name for a child; you were not christened that. What name
did they give you when you were baptized?" continued Fraulein Rottenmeier.

"I do not remember," replied Heidi.

"What a way to answer!" said the lady, shaking her head. "Dete, is the child a simpleton or
only saucy?"

"If the lady will allow me, I will speak for the child, for she is very unaccustomed to strangers,"
said Dete, who had given Heidi a silent poke for making such an unsuitable answer. "She is
certainly not stupid nor yet saucy, she does not know what it means even; she speaks exactly
as she thinks. To-day she is for the first time in a gentleman's house and she does not know
good manners; but she is docile and very willing to learn, if the lady will kindly make excuses
for her. She was christened Adelaide, after her mother, my sister, who is now dead."

"Well, that's a name that one can pronounce," remarked Fraulein Rottenmeier. "But I must tell
you, Dete, that I am astonished to see so young a child. I told you that I wanted a companion
of the same age as the young lady of the house, one who could share her lessons, and all her
other occupations. Fraulein Clara is now over twelve; what age is this child?"

"If the lady will allow me," began Dete again, in her usual fluent manner, "I myself had lost
count of her exact age; she is certainly a little younger, but not much; I cannot say precisely,
but I think she is ten, or thereabouts."

"Grandfather told me I was eight," put in Heidi. Dete gave her another poke, but as the child
had not the least idea why she did so she was not at all confused.

"What--only eight!" cried Fraulein Rottenmeier angrily. "Four years too young! Of what use
is such a child! And what have you learnt? What books did you have to learn from?"

"None," said Heidi.

"How? what? How then did you learn to read?" continued the lady.

"I have never learnt to read, or Peter either," Heidi informed her.

"Mercy upon us! you do not know how to read! Is it really so?" exclaimed Fraulein Rottenmeier,
greatly horrified. "Is it possible--not able to read? What have you learnt then?"

"Nothing," said Heidi with unflinching truthfulness.

"Young woman," said the lady to Dete, after having paused for a minute or two to recover from
her shock, "this is not at all the sort of companion you led me to suppose; how could you think
of bringing me a child like this?"

But Dete was not to be put down so easily, and answered warmly, "If the lady will allow me,
the child is exactly what I thought she required; the lady described what she wished for, a
child unlike all other children, and I could find no other to suit, for the greater number
I know are not peculiar, but one very much the same as the other, and I thought this child
seemed as if made for the place. But I must go now, for my mistress will be waiting for me;
if the lady will permit I will come again soon and see how she is getting on." And with a bow
Dete quickly left the room and ran downstairs. Fraulein Rottenmeier stood for a moment taken
aback and then ran after Dete. If the child was to stop she had many things yet to say and
ask about her, and there the child was, and what was more, Dete, as she plainly saw, meant
to leave her there.

Heidi remained by the door where she had been standing since she first came in. Clara had looked
on during the interview without speaking; now she beckoned to Heidi and said, "Come here!"

Heidi went up to her.

"Would you rather be called Heidi or Adelaide?" asked Clara.

"I am never called anything but Heidi," was the child's prompt answer.

"Then I shall always call you by that name," said Clara, "it suits you. I have never heard
it before, but neither have I ever seen a child like you before. Have you always had that short
curly hair?"

"Yes, I think so," said Heidi.

"Are you pleased to come to Frankfurt?" went on Clara.

"No, but I shall go home to-morrow and take grandmother a white loaf," explained Heidi.

"Well, you are a funny child!" exclaimed Clara. "You were expressly sent for to come here and
to remain with me and share my lessons; there will be some fun about them now as you cannot
read, something new to do, for often they are dreadfully dull, and I think the morning will
never pass away. You know my tutor comes every morning at about ten o'clock, and then we go
on with lessons till two, and it does seem such a long time. Sometimes he takes up the book
and holds it close up to his face, as if he was very short-sighted, but I know it's only because
he wants so dreadfully to gape, and Fraulein Rottenmeier takes her large handkerchief out also
now and then and covers her face with it, as if she was moved by what we had been reading,
but that is only because she is longing to gape too. And I myself often want to gape, but I
am obliged to stop myself, for if Fraulein Rottenmeier sees me gaping she runs off at once
and fetches the cod-liver oil and says I must have a dose, as I am getting weak again, and
the cod-liver oil is horrible, so I do my best not to gape. But now it will be much more amusing,
for I shall be able to lie and listen while you learn to read."

Heidi shook her head doubtfully when she heard of learning to read.

"Oh, nonsense, Heidi, of course you must learn to read, everybody must, and my tutor is very
kind, and never cross, and he will explain everything to you. But mind, when he explains anything
to you, you won't be able to understand; but don't ask any questions, or else he will go on
explaining and you will understand less than ever. Later when you have learnt more and know
about things yourself, then you will begin to understand what he meant."

Fraulein Rottenmeier now came back into the room; she had not been able to overtake Dete, and
was evidently very much put out; for she had wanted to go into more details concerning the
child, and to convince Dete how misleading she had been, and how unfit Heidi was as a companion
for Clara; she really did not know what to be about, or how to undo the mischief, and it made
her all the more angry that she herself was responsible for it, having consented to Heidi being
fetched. She ran backwards and forwards in a state of agitation between the study and the dining-room,
and then began scolding Sebastian, who was standing looking at the table he had just finished
laying to see that nothing was missing.

"You can finish your thoughts to-morrow morning; make haste, or we shall get no dinner to-day
at all."

Then hurrying out she called Tinette, but in such an ill- tempered voice that the maid came
tripping forward with even more mincing steps than usual, but she looked so pert that even
Fraulein Rottenmeier did not venture to scold her, which only made her suppressed anger the
greater.

"See that the room is prepared for the little girl who has just arrived," said the lady, with
a violent effort at self-control. "Everything is ready; it only wants dusting."

"It's worth my troubling about," said Tinette mockingly as she turned away.

Meanwhile Sebastian had flung open the folding doors leading into the dining-room with rather
more noise than he need, for he was feeling furious, although he did not dare answer back when
Fraulein Rottenmeier spoke to him; he then went up to Clara's chair to wheel her into the next
room. As he was arranging the handle at the back preparatory to doing so, Heidi went near and
stood staring at him. Seeing her eyes fixed upon him, he suddenly growled out, "Well, what
is there in me to stare at like that?" which he would certainly not have done if he had been
aware that Fraulein Rottenmeier was just then entering the room. "You look so like Peter,"
answered Heidi. The lady-housekeeper clasped her hands in horror. "Is it possible!" she stammered
half- aloud, "she is now addressing the servant as if he were a friend! I never could have
imagined such a child!"

Sebastian wheeled the couch into the dining-room and helped Clara on to her chair. Fraulein
Rottenmeier took the seat beside her and made a sign to Heidi to take the one opposite. They
were the only three at table, and as they sat far apart there was plenty of room for Sebastian
to hand his dishes. Beside Heidi's plate lay a nice white roll, and her eyes lighted up with
pleasure as she saw it. The resemblance which Heidi had noticed had evidently awakened in her
a feeling of confidence towards Sebastian, for she sat as still as a mouse and without moving
until he came up to her side and handed her the dish of fish; then she looked at the roll and
asked, "Can I have it?" Sebastian nodded, throwing a side glance at Fraulein Rottenmeier to
see what effect this request would have upon her. Heidi immediately seized the roll and put
it in her pocket. Sebastian's face became convulsed, he was overcome with inward laughter but
knew his place too well to laugh aloud. Mute and motionless he still remained standing beside
Heidi; it was not his duty to speak, nor to move away until she had helped herself. Heidi looked
wonderingly at him for a minute or two, and then said, "Am I to eat some of that too?" Sebastian
nodded again. "Give me some then," she said, looking calmly at her plate. At this Sebastian's
command of his countenance became doubtful, and the dish began to tremble suspiciously in his
hands.

"You can put the dish on the table and come back presently," said Fraulein Rottenmeier with
a severe expression of face. Sebastian disappeared on the spot. "As for you, Adelaide, I see
I shall have to teach you the first rules of behavior," continued the lady-housekeeper with
a sigh. "I will begin by explaining to you how you are to conduct yourself at table," and she
went on to give Heidi minute instructions as to all she was to do. "And now," she continued,
"I must make you particularly understand that you are not to speak to Sebastian at table, or
at any other time, unless you have an order to give him, or a necessary question to put to
him; and then you are not to address him as if he was some one belonging to you. Never let
me hear you speak to him in that way again! It is the same with Tinette, and for myself you
are to address me as you hear others doing. Clara must herself decide what you are to call her."

"Why, Clara, of course," put the latter. Then followed a long list of rules as to general behavior,
getting up and going to bed, going in and out of the room, shutting the doors, keeping everything
tidy, during the course of which Heidi's eyes gradually closed, for she had been up before
five o'clock that morning and had had a long journey. She leant back in her chair and fell
fast asleep. Fraulein Rottenmeier having at last come to the end of her sermonizing said, "Now
remember what I have said, Adelaide! Have you understood it all?"

"Heidi has been asleep for ever so long," said Clara, her face rippling all over with amusement,
for she had not had such an entertaining dinner for a long time.

"It is really insupportable what one has to go through with this child," exclaimed Fraulein
Rottenmeier, in great indignation, and she rang the bell so violently that Tinette and Sebastian
both came running in and nearly tumbling over one another; but no noise was sufficient to wake
Heidi, and it was with difficulty they could rouse her sufficiently to get her along to her
bedroom, to reach which she had to pass first through the study, then through Clara's bedroom,
then through Fraulein Rottenmeier's sitting-room, till she came to the corner room that had
been set apart for her.

CHAPTER VII. FRAULEIN ROTTENMEIER SPENDS AN UNCOMFORTABLE DAY

When Heidi opened her eyes on her first morning in Frankfurt she could not think where she
was. Then she rubbed them and looked about her. She was sitting up in a high white bed, on
one side of a large, wide room, into which the light was falling through very, very long white
curtains; near the window stood two chairs covered with large flowers, and then came a sofa
with the same flowers, in front of which was a round table; in the corner was a washstand,
with things upon it that Heidi had never seen in her life before. But now all at once she remembered
that she was in Frankfurt; everything that had happened the day before came back to her, and
finally she recalled clearly the instructions that had been given her by the lady-housekeeper,
as far as she had heard them. Heidi jumped out of bed and dressed herself; then she ran first
to one window and then another; she wanted to see the sky and country outside; she felt like
a bird in a cage behind those great curtains. But they were too heavy for her to put aside,
so she crept underneath them to get to the window. But these again were so high that she could
only just get her head above the sill to peer out. Even then she could not see what she longed
for. In vain she went first to one and then the other of the windows--she could see nothing
but walls and windows and again walls and windows. Heidi felt quite frightened. It was still
early, for Heidi was accustomed to get up early and run out at once to see how everything was
looking, if the sky was blue and if the sun was already above the mountains, or if the fir
trees were waving and the flowers had opened their eyes. As a bird, when it first finds itself
in its bright new cage, darts hither and thither, trying the bars in turn to see if it cannot
get through them and fly again into the open, so Heidi continued to run backwards and forwards,
trying to open first one and then the other of the windows, for she felt she could not bear
to see nothing but walls and windows, and somewhere outside there must be the green grass,
and the last unmelted snows on the mountain slopes, which Heidi so longed to see. But the windows
remained immovable, try what Heidi would to open them, even endeavoring to push her little
fingers under them to lift them up; but it was all no use. When after a while Heidi saw that
her efforts were fruitless, she gave up trying, and began to think whether she would not go
out and round the house till she came to the grass, but then she remembered that the night
before she had only seen stones in front of the house. At that moment a knock came to the door,
and immediately after Tinette put her head inside and said, "Breakfast is ready." Heidi had
no idea what an invitation so worded meant, and Tinette's face did not encourage any questioning
on Heidi's part, but rather the reverse. Heidi was sharp enough to read its expression, and
acted accordingly. So she drew the little stool out from under the table, put it in the corner
and sat down upon it, and there silently awaited what would happen next. Shortly after, with
a good deal of rustling and bustling Fraulein Rottenmeier appeared, who again seemed very much
put out and called to Heidi, "What is the matter with you, Adelheid? Don't you understand what
breakfast is? Come along at once!"

Heidi had no difficulty in understanding now and followed at once. Clara had been some time
at the breakfast table and she gave Heidi a kindly greeting, her face looking considerably
more cheerful than usual, for she looked forward to all kinds of new things happening again
that day. Breakfast passed off quietly; Heidi ate her bread and butter in a perfectly correct
manner, and when the meal was over and Clara wheeled back into the study, Fraulein Rottenmeier
told her to follow and remain with Clara until the tutor should arrive and lessons begin.

As soon as the children were alone again, Heidi asked, "How can one see out from here, and
look right down on to the ground?"

"You must open the window and look out," replied Clara amused.

"But the windows won't open," responded Heidi sadly.

"Yes, they will," Clara assured her. "You cannot open them, nor I either, but when you see
Sebastian you can ask him to open one."

It was a great relief to Heidi to know that the windows could be opened and that one could
look out, for she still felt as if she was shut up in prison. Clara now began to ask her questions
about her home, and Heidi was delighted to tell her all about the mountain and the goats, and
the flowery meadows which were so dear to her.

Meanwhile her tutor had arrived; Fraulein Rottenmeier, however, did not bring him straight
into the study but drew him first aside into the dining-room, where she poured forth her troubles
and explained to him the awkward position in which she was placed, and how it had all come
about. It appeared that she had written some time back to Herr Sesemann to tell him that his
daughter very much wished to have a companion, and had added how desirable she thought it herself,
as it would be a spur to Clara at her lessons and an amusement for her in her playtime. Fraulein
Rottenmeier had privately wished for this arrangement on her own behalf, as it would relieve
her from having always to entertain the sick girl herself, which she felt at times was too
much for her. The father had answered that he was quite willing to let his daughter have a
companion, provided she was treated in every way like his own child, as he would not have any
child tormented or put upon, "which was a very unnecessary remark," put in Fraulein Rottenmeier,
"for who wants to torment children!" But now she went on to explain how dreadfully she had
been taken in about the child, and related all the unimaginable things of which she had already
been guilty, so that not only would he have to begin with teaching her the A B C, but would
have to start with the most rudimentary instruction as regarded everything to do with daily
life. She could see only one way out of this disastrous state of affairs, and that was for
the tutor to declare that it was impossible for the two to learn together without detriment
to Clara, who was so far ahead of the other; that would be a valid excuse for getting rid of
the child, and Herr Sesemann would be sure to agree to the child being sent home again, but
she dared not do this without his order, since he was aware that by this time the companion
had arrived. But the tutor was a cautious man and not inclined to take a partial view of matters.
He tried to calm Fraulein Rottenmeier, and gave it as his opinion that if the little girl was
backward in some things she was probably advanced in others, and a little regular teaching
would soon set the balance right. When Fraulein Rottenmeier saw that he was not ready to support
her, and evidently quite ready to undertake teaching the alphabet, she opened the study door,
which she quickly shut again as soon as he had gone through, remaining on the other side herself,
for she had a perfect horror of the A B C. She walked up and down the dining-room, thinking
over in her own mind how the servants were to be told to address Adelaide. The father had written
that she was to be treated exactly like his own daughter, and this would especially refer,
she imagined, to the servants. She was not allowed, however, a very long interval of time for
consideration, for suddenly the sound of a frightful crash was heard in the study, followed
by frantic cries for Sebastian. She rushed into the room. There on the floor lay in a confused
heap, books, exercise-books, inkstand, and other articles with the table-cloth on the top,
while from beneath them a dark stream of ink was flowing all across the floor. Heidi had disappeared.

"Here's a state of things!" exclaimed Fraulein Rottenmeier, wringing her hands. "Table-cloth,
books, work-basket, everything lying in the ink! It was that unfortunate child, I suppose!"

The tutor was standing looking down at the havoc in distress; there was certainly only one
view to be taken of such a matter as this and that an unfavorable one. Clara meanwhile appeared
to find pleasure in such an unusual event and in watching the results. "Yes, Heidi did it,"
she explained, "but quite by accident; she must on no account be punished; she jumped up in
such violent haste to get away that she dragged the tablecloth along with her, and so everything
went over. There were a number of vehicles passing, that is why she rushed off like that; perhaps
she has never seen a carriage."

"Is it not as I said? She has not the smallest notion about anything! not the slightest idea
that she ought to sit still and listen while her lessons are going on. But where is the child
who has caused all this trouble? Surely she has not run away! What would Herr Sesemann say
to me?" She ran out of the room and down the stairs. There, at the bottom, standing in the
open door- way, was Heidi, looking in amazement up and down the street.

"What are you doing? What are you thinking of to run away like that?" called Fraulein Rottenmeier.

"I heard the sound of the fir trees, but I cannot see where they are, and now I cannot hear
them any more," answered Heidi, looking disappointedly in the direction whence the noise of
the passing carriages had reached her, and which to Heidi had seemed like the blowing of the
south wind in the trees, so that in great joy of heart she had rushed out to look at them.

"Fir trees! do you suppose we are in a wood? What ridiculous ideas are these? Come upstairs
and see the mischief you have done!"

Heidi turned and followed Fraulein Rottenmeier upstairs; she was quite astonished to see the
disaster she had caused, for in her joy and haste to get to the fir trees she had been unaware
of having dragged everything after her.

"I excuse you doing this as it is the first time, but do not let me know you doing it a second
time," said Fraulein Rottenmeier, pointing to the floor. "During your lesson time you are to
sit still and attend. If you cannot do this I shall have to tie you to your chair. Do you understand?"

"Yes," replied Heidi, "but I will certainly not move again," for now she understood that it
was a rule to sit still while she was being taught.

Sebastian and Tinette were now sent for to clear up the broken articles and put things in order
again; the tutor said good- morning and left, as it was impossible to do any more lessons that
day; there had been certainly no time for gaping this morning.

Clara had to rest for a certain time during the afternoon, and during this interval, as Fraulein
Rottenmeier informed Heidi, the latter might amuse herself as she liked. When Clara had been
placed on her couch after dinner, and the lady-housekeeper had retired to her room, Heidi knew
that her time had come to choose her own occupation. It was just what she was longing for,
as there was something she had made up her mind to do; but she would require some help for
its accomplishment, and in view of this she took her stand in the hall in front of the dining-room
door in order to intercept the person she wanted. In a few minutes up came Sebastian from the
kitchen with a tray of silver tea-things, which he had to put away in the dining-room cupboard.
As he reached the top stairs Heidi went up to him and addressed him in the formal manner she
had been ordered to use by Fraulein Rottenmeier.

Sebastian looked surprised and said somewhat curtly, "What is it you want, miss?"

"I only wished to ask you something, but it is nothing bad like this morning," said Heidi,
anxious to conciliate him, for she saw that Sebastian was rather in a cross temper, and quite
thought that it was on account of the ink she had spilt on the floor.

"Indeed, and why, I should first like to know, do you address me like that?" replied Sebastian,
evidently still put out.

"Fraulein Rottenmeier told me always to speak to you like that," said Heidi.

Then Sebastian laughed, which very much astonished Heidi, who had seen nothing amusing in the
conversation, but Sebastian, now he understood that the child was only obeying orders, added
in a friendly voice, "What is it then that miss wants?"

It was now Heidi's turn to be a little put out, and she said, "My name is not miss, it is Heidi."

"Quite so, but the same lady has ordered me to call you miss," explained Sebastian.

"Has she? oh, then I must be called so," said Heidi submissively, for she had already noticed
that whatever Fraulein Rottenmeier said was law. "Then now I have three names," she added with
a sigh.

"What was it little miss wished to ask?" said Sebastian as he went on into the dining-room
to put away his silver.

"How can a window be opened?"

"Why, like that!" and Sebastian flung up one of the large windows.

Heidi ran to it, but she was not tall enough to see out, for her head only reached the sill.

"There, now miss can look out and see what is going on below," said Sebastian as he brought
her a high wooden stool to stand on.

Heidi climbed up, and at last, as she thought, was going to see what she had been longing for.
But she drew back her head with a look of great disappointment on her face.

"Why, there is nothing outside but the stony streets," she said mournfully; "but if I went
right round to the other side of the house what should I see there, Sebastian?"

"Nothing but what you see here," he told her.

"Then where can I go to see right away over the whole valley?"

"You would have to climb to the top of a high tower, a church tower, like that one over there
with the gold ball above it. From there you can see right away ever so far."

Heidi climbed down quickly from her stool, ran to the door, down the steps and out into the
street. Things were not, however, quite so easy as she thought. Looking from the window the
tower had appeared so close that she imagined she had only to run over the road to reach it.
But now, although she ran along the whole length of the street, she still did not get any nearer
to it, and indeed soon lost sight of it altogether; she turned down another street, and went
on and on, but still no tower. She passed a great many people, but they all seemed in such
a hurry that Heidi thought they had not time to tell her which way to go. Then suddenly at
one of the street corners she saw a boy standing, carrying a hand-organ on his back and a funny-looking
animal on his arm. Heidi ran up to him and said, "Where is the tower with the gold ball on
the top?"

"I don't know," was the answer.

"Who can I ask to show me?" she asked again.

"I don't know."

"Do you know any other church with a high tower?"

"Yes, I know one."

"Come then and show it me."

"Show me first what you will give me for it," and the boy held out his hand as he spoke. Heidi
searched about in her pockets and presently drew out a card on which was painted a garland
of beautiful red roses; she looked at it first for a moment or two, for she felt rather sorry
to part with it; Clara had only that morning made her a present of it--but then, to look down
into the valley and see all the lovely green slopes! "There," said Heidi, holding out the card,
"would you like to have that?"

The boy drew back his hand and shook his head.

"What would you like then?" asked Heidi, not sorry to put the card back in her pocket.

"Money."

"I have none, but Clara has; I am sure she will give me some; how much do you want?"

"Twopence."

"Come along then."

They started off together along the street, and on the way Heidi asked her companion what he
was carrying on his back; it was a hand-organ, he told her, which played beautiful music when
he turned the handle. All at once they found themselves in front of an old church with a high
tower; the boy stood still, and said, "There it is."

"But how shall I get inside?" asked Heidi, looking at the fast closed doors.

"I don't know," was the answer.

"Do you think that I can ring as they do for Sebastian?"

"I don't know."

Heidi had by this time caught sight of a bell in the wall which she now pulled with all her
might. "If I go up you must stay down here, for I do not know the way back, and you will have
to show me."

"What will you give me then for that?"

"What do you want me to give you?"

"Another twopence."

They heard the key turning inside, and then some one pulled open the heavy creaking door; an
old man came out and at first looked with surprise and then in anger at the children, as he
began scolding them: "What do you mean by ringing me down like this? Can't you read what is
written over the bell, 'For those who wish to go up the tower'?"

The boy said nothing but pointed his finger at Heidi. The latter answered, "But I do want to
go up the tower."

"What do you want up there?" said the old man. "Has somebody sent you?"

"No," replied Heidi, "I only wanted to go up that I might look down."

"Get along home with you and don't try this trick on me again, or you may not come off so easily
a second time," and with that he turned and was about to shut the door. But Heidi took hold
of his coat and said beseechingly, "Let me go up, just once."

He looked around, and his mood changed as he saw her pleading eyes; he took hold of her hand
and said kindly, "Well, if you really wish it so much, I will take you."

The boy sat down on the church steps to show that he was content to wait where he was.

Hand in hand with the old man Heidi went up the many steps of the tower; they became smaller
and smaller as they neared the top, and at last came one very narrow one, and there they were
at the end of their climb. The old man lifted Heidi up that she might look out of the open window.

"There, now you can look down," he said.

Heidi saw beneath her a sea of roofs, towers, and chimney-pots; she quickly drew back her head
and said in a sad, disappointed voice, "It is not at all what I thought."

"You see now, a child like you does not understand anything about a view! Come along down and
don't go ringing at my bell again!"

He lifted her down and went on before her down the narrow stairway. To the left of the turn
where it grew wider stood the door of the tower-keeper's room, and the landing ran out beside
it to the edge of the steep slanting roof. At the far end of this was a large basket, in front
of which sat a big grey cat, that snarled as it saw them, for she wished to warn the passers-
by that they were not to meddle with her family. Heidi stood still and looked at her in astonishment,
for she had never seen such a monster cat before; there were whole armies of mice, however,
in the old tower, so the cat had no difficulty in catching half a dozen for her dinner every
day. The old man seeing Heidi so struck with admiration said, "She will not hurt you while
I am near; come, you can have a peep at the kittens."

Heidi went up to the basket and broke out into expressions of delight.

"Oh, the sweet little things! the darling kittens," she kept on saying, as she jumped from
side to side of the basket so as, not to lose any of the droll gambols of the seven or eight
little kittens that were scrambling and rolling and falling over one another.

"Would you like to have one?" said the old man, who enjoyed watching the child's pleasure.

"For myself to keep?" said Heidi excitedly, who could hardly believe such happiness was to be hers.

"Yes, of course, more than one if you like--in short, you can take away the whole lot if you
have room for them," for the old man was only too glad to think he could get rid of his kittens
without more trouble.

Heidi could hardly contain herself for joy. There would be plenty of room for them in the large
house, and then how astonished and delighted Clara would be when she saw the sweet little kittens.

"But how can I take them with me?" asked Heidi, and was going quickly to see how many she could
carry away in her hands, when the old cat sprang at her so fiercely that she shrank back in fear.

"I will take them for you if you will tell me where," said the old man, stroking the cat to
quiet her, for she was an old friend of his that had lived with him in the tower for many years.

"To Herr Sesemann's, the big house where there is a gold dog's head on the door, with a ring
in its mouth," explained Heidi.

Such full directions as these were not really needed by the old man, who had had charge of
the tower for many a long year and knew every house far and near, and moreover Sebastian was
an acquaintance of his.

"I know the house," he said, "but when shall I bring them, and who shall I ask for?--you are
not one of the family, I am sure."

"No, but Clara will be so delighted when I take her the kittens."

The old man wished now to go downstairs, but Heidi did not know how to tear herself away from
the amusing spectacle.

"If I could just take one or two away with me! one for myself and one for Clara, may I?"

"Well, wait a moment," said the man, and he drew the cat cautiously away into his room, and
leaving her by a bowl of food came out again and shut the door. "Now take two of them."

Heidi's eyes shone with delight. She picked up a white kitten and another striped white and
yellow, and put one in the right, the other in the left pocket. Then she went downstairs. The
boy was still sitting outside on the steps, and as the old man shut the door of the church
behind them, she said, "Which is our way to Herr Sesemann's house?"

"I don't know," was the answer.

Heidi began a description of the front door and the steps and the windows, but the boy only
shook his head, and was not any the wiser.

"Well, look here," continued Heidi, "from one window you can see a very, very large grey house,
and the roof runs like this--" and Heidi drew a zigzag line in the air with her forefinger.

