From his anxiety to be fair to Fascism, Gilbert was often accused of being in favour of it,
but, both in this book and in several articles, having given the case for it he went on to
give the case against it--a much stronger case than that usually given by its opponents. The
case for Fascism lay in the breakdown of true democracy and the reign of the tyranny of wealth
in the democratic countries. Chesterton would, he said, have been on the side of the Partito
Popolare as against the Fascism that succeeded it; in England and America he would "have infinitely
preferred that the purgation of our plutocratic politics should have been achieved by Radicals
and Republicans. It was they who did not prefer it." It was not that Fascism was not open to
attack but "that Liberalism has unfortunately lost the right to attack it."

Those of us who were in Italy at that time will remember the truth of his description of the
vitality and happiness that seemed to glow among the people. Giovinezza, bellezza, heard everywhere,
had then no hollow sound at the heart of it. Italy was radiant with hope.

In Mussolini himself Gilbert saluted a belief in "the civic necessity of Virtue," in the "ideal
that public life should be public," in human dignity, in respect for women as mothers, in piety
and the honour due to the dead. Yet, summing up the man and the movement, he saw it as primarily
the sort of riot that is provoked by the evils of an evil government, only "in the Italy of
the twentieth century the rioters have become the rulers." For although Mussolini had in many
ways made his rule popular, although in his concessions to modern ideas and inventions he was
"rather breathlessly progressive," yet in the true sense of the word Mussolini was a Reactionary.
A Reactionary is one who merely reacts against something, or permits "that something to make
[him] do something against it. . . . A Reactionary is one in whom weariness itself has become
a form of energy. Even when he is right there is always a danger that what was really good
in the previous society may be destroyed by what is good in the new one."

Mussolini's reaction was against the Liberalism in which as an idea Chesterton still believed,
it was a reaction from democracy to authority. And his weakness, the fundamental weakness of
Fascism was that "it appeals to an appetite for authority, without very clearly giving the
authority for the appetite. . . . When I try to put the case for it in philosophical terms,
there is some doubt about the ultimates of the philosophy." It seemed to Chesterton that there
were only two possible fixed and orderly constitutions, hereditary Monarchy or Majority Rule.
The demand of the Fascists to hold power as an intelligent and active minority was in fact
to invite other intelligent and active minorities to dispute that rule; and then only by tyranny
could anarchy be prevented.

"Fascism," he said in summary, "has brought back order into the State; but this will not be
lasting unless it has brought back order into the mind."

The two things in the Roman visit that remain most prominent in Dorothy's memory are Gilbert's
loss of a medal of Our Lady that he always wore and his audience with the Holy Father. The
loss of the medal seemed to distress him out of all normal proportion. He had the elevator
boy looking for it on hands and knees and gave him a huge reward for finding it. Gilbert has
left no record of his Papal audience. But, says Dorothy, it excited him so greatly that he
did no work for two days before the event or two days after.

Their second visit to America in 1930-31 was far better enjoyed by Gilbert, and also I think
by Frances until she got ill, because on it they came much closer to the real people of the
country, especially during the period when he was lecturing at the University of Notre Dame,
Indiana. They lived at a little house in South Bend and he lectured every night, alternating
a course on Victorian Literature with one on the great figures of Victorian history. There
were 36 lectures all told, and the average attendance at each lecture was 500.

At Notre Dame and the Sister College of St. Mary's, I felt the best way to get the atmosphere
of this visit would be to get together for a talk the people who remembered Gilbert: they would
stimulate one another's memories. I invoked the aid of Sister Madeleva and she suggested the
two Fathers Leo Ward, Professors Engels and O'Grady, and, best of all Johnnie Mangan the chauffeur.
Johnnie is a great institution at Notre Dame. He remembered driving my father nearly thirty
years ago and he had specially vivid memories of the Chesterton period. We all sat in a circle
in Sister Madeleva's sitting room. I give here the notes I took.

   Johnnie Mangan: "It was the hardest job getting him into the car,
   harder getting him out. He'd walk on the porch and all the children
   came. He'd talk to the children on the road. Money meant nothing to
   him: the lady would give me the money saying himself would leave it
   in the shop if the barber wasn't honest enough to give change.

   "He enjoyed everything: when they dedicated the stadium he stayed
   till the very end. Father O'Donnell introduced him to all the naval
   officers and he was the last off the ground. He enjoyed talking to
   all the naval officers. He loved cheer-leading."

   Mr. O'Grady: "He spent one evening in Professor Phillips' room
   after the lecture from 9 to 2.30 A.M. His host was deaf, G.K. learnt
   later, and he made another date when he found his host had missed
   most of the fun."

   Mr. Engels: "He would sit around consuming home-made ale by the
   quart; said the head of the philosophy faculty made the best brew in
   the college. Enjoyed little drives round the countryside. The faculty
   were a little shy of inviting him."

   "In a lecture he got an immense laugh by calling Queen Elizabeth an
   'old crock.' He then laughed above all the rest."

Mr. Engels noticed mannerisms: "The constant shifting of his great bulk around," "rotating
while he was talking," "flipping his eyeglasses," "lumbering on to the stage, going through
all his pockets, finally finding a piece of dirty yellow paper and talking from it as if most
laboriously gathered and learned notes. But the paper was only for show. Father Burke saw him
get out of the cab, he got on to the stair landing and then saw G.K.'s yellow paper on the
ground. He had delivered his whole course with hardly a single note--occasionally looked through
material for a quarter of an hour or so before speaking." All thought him a great entertainer
as well as an informing talker. "No one enjoyed himself more than he did." Trying to get him
for an informal gathering they mentioned they had some Canadian Ales--quite something in Prohibition
days.

   G.K.: "The ales have it."

   Johnnie: "He'd chat all the time he was driving."

   Father Leo L. Ward: "The problem of getting G.K. to and fro in a
   coupe was only solved by backing him in."

They remembered G.K. "in Charley's big chair, his hands barely touching over his great expanse."

They recalled that on receiving his honorary degree he said the last time he received one at
Edinburgh they tapped him with John Knox's hat. He did not expect anything so drastic here:
perhaps they might tap him with Tom Heflin's sombrero.* When he had been invited to Notre Dame
he was not certain where it was but with a name like that, even if it were in the mountains
of the moon, he should feel at home. "If I ever meet anybody who suggests there's something
Calvinistic or Puritanical in Catholicism I shall ask, 'Have you ever heard of the University
of Notre Dame?'"

[* Tom Heflin was the fiercely anti-Catholic Senator from Alabama.]

   Johnnie: "He'd do anything she'd say, or Miss Collins. They
   certainly had that man by the neck, but they took wonderful care of
   him."

   Mr. O'Grady: "It was a very intelligent arrangement. And did they
   tidy him."

   Johnnie: "Very much so. It was their business every evening."

   Sister Madeleva: "Did he walk on the campus and see the students?"

   Johnnie: "He didn't walk much only to Charlie Phillips' rooms. He
   didn't mind being a little late but his lady and Miss Collins loaded
   him into the car to get him there on time.

   "The woman they lodged with used to swear like a trooper. But she
   (the landlady) cried like a kid when he left. And he and the lady
   seemed lonesome at leaving her.

   "In his spare time at the house he would be drawing some fancy
   stuff."

   "What did he talk to you about?"

   Johnnie: "He'd just talk about the country, he'd admire the streams
   and things like that. I took him to the Virgin Forest and I could
   hardly get him back. He even got out to notice the trees. He spent
   almost an hour. The women raved at me and said I must get him back at
   a certain time. He'd ask me the names of the trees. He loved rivers
   and would ask me about the fish. At one time Father O'Donnell thought
   he should drive to Chicago or some big town but he didn't care for
   towns, said they all looked alike to him, so after that we always
   went to the country."

Someone asked, "Did he ever get grouchy?"

   Johnnie: "He always had a smile. Was always calling kids over to
   talk to him. He'd touch one with his stick to make him look round and
   play with him, and then he'd laugh himself sick playing with them.
   The kids were always around him. The ones of four or five years,
   those were the ones he'd notice the most. He liked to ask them things
   and then if they gave a good answer he could get a good laugh at it."

   Mr. O'Grady: "I know he enjoyed himself here. I met him in Ottawa
   afterwards. He was autographing a book, the pen was recalcitrant and
   he shook it over the rug, 'Dear me, I'm always cluttering up people's
   rugs.' His cousin in Ottawa had him completely surrounded by ash
   trays but the cigar had ash almost half length and it was falling
   everywhere."

   Father Ward: "Father Miltner one evening in pleasant fall weather
   found G.K. on the porch. The campus was empty. He got a grunt in
   return to his greeting, tried three or four times, almost no answer.
   G.K. looked glum.

   "'Well, you're not very gay this evening.'

    "'One should be given the luxury of a little private grouch once in
   a while.'"

   To Johnnie--"Did he take the lecture business seriously?"

   "No. He just wanted five minutes on the porch when he would talk to
   no one but the kids."

   Mr. O'Grady: "He said once, 'What I like about notes is that when
   once you begin you can completely disregard them.' He stood for the
   first lecture but mostly he sat. He enjoyed a joke so much, and they
   enjoyed his enjoyment."

   Mr. Engels: "For the first lecture he stood--part of him stood
   behind a little rostrum, after that he sat at a big table."

Father Leo R. Ward was at Oxford when he debated "That the Law is a Hass" and was amazed at
the way the undergraduates adored him. "His opponent begged them not to vote for G.K. at this
critical moment in the world's history. They cheered G.K. but voted against him to make the
other fellow feel good."

   Sister Madeleva: "What did he do for recreation?"

   Johnnie: "He did a lot of--sketching I guess you'd call it--and
   he'd read the papers."

   Sister Madeleva: "Did he like the campus?"

   Johnnie: "Very much."

   "Did he ever go down to the Grotto?"

   Johnnie: "He seen it but he never got out of the car."

   "Was it hard for him to walk?"

   Johnnie: "No, he could walk kinda fast, but it was so hard for him
   to get in or out of the car."

   "Where did he go to church?"

   Johnnie: "He came here to Notre Dame. He was close to 400 lbs. but
   he'd never give it away. He'd break an ordinary scale, I guess. I
   brought him under the main building, he got stuck in the door of the
   car. Father O'Donnell tried to help. Mr. Chesterton said it reminded
   him of an old Irishwoman: 'Why don't you get out sideways?' 'I have
   no sideways.'"

To the debate with Darrow, Frances Taylor Patterson had gone a little uneasy lest Chesterton's
arguments "might seem somewhat literary in comparison with the trained scientific mind and
rapier tongue of the famous trial lawyer." She found however that both trained mind and rapier
tongue were the property of G.K.C.

   I have never heard Mr. Darrow alone, but taken relatively, when
   that relativity is to Chesterton, he appears positively muddle headed.

   As Chesterton summed it up, he felt as if Darrow had been arguing
   all afternoon with his fundamentalist aunt, and simply kept sparring
   with a dummy of his own mental making. When something went wrong with
   the microphone, Darrow sat back until it could be fixed. Whereupon
   G.K.C. jumped up and carried on in his natural voice, "Science you
   see is not infallible!" . . . Chesterton had the audience with him
   from the start, and when it was over, everyone just sat there, not
   wishing to leave. They were loath to let the light die!*

[* Chesterton by Cyril Clemens, pp. 67-68.]

As in England, so also in the States, Gilbert's debating was held to be far better than his
straight lecturing. He never missed the opportunity for a quick repartee and yet when he scored
the audience felt that he did so with utter kindness. At a debate with Dr. Horace T. Bridges
of the Ethical Cultural Society on "Is Psychology a Curse?" Bishop Craig Stewart who presided,
describes how:

   In his closing remarks Chesterton devastatingly sideswiped his
   opponent and wound up the occasion in a storm of laughter and
   applause, "It is clear that I have won the debate, and we are all
   prepared to acknowledge that psychology is a curse. Let us, however,
   be magnanimous. Let us allow at least one person in this unhappy
   world to practice this cursed psychology, and I should like to
   nominate Dr. Bridges."

The Bishop on another occasion introduced Gilbert at a luncheon in Chicago by quoting Oliver
Herford's lines:

   When plain folks such as you and I
   See the sun sinking in the sky,
   We think it is the setting sun:
   But Mr. Gilbert Chesterton
   Is not so easily misled;
   He calmly stands upon his head,
   And upside down obtains a new
   And Chestertonian point of view.
   Observing thus how from his nose
   The sun creeps closer to his toes
   He cries in wonder and delight
   How fine the sunrise is tonight!

The fact that nearly all the headlines he chose sounded like paradoxes, the fact that they
did not themselves agree with him, had on Chesterton's opponents and on some members of his
audience one curious effect. Dr. Bridges when asked his opinion of his late sparring partner,
after paying warm tribute to his brilliance as a critic, his humour and his great personal
charm, discovered in his "subconscious" (Is Psychology a Curse?) "a certain intellectual recklessness
that made him indifferent to truth and reality . . . fundamentally--perhaps I should say subconsciously--he
was a thorough-going skeptic and acted upon the principle that, since we cannot really be positive
about anything we had better believe what it pleases us to believe."

So too at the British University of Aberystwyth when Chesterton spoke on "Liberty," taking
first historically the fights of Barons against despots, yeomen against barons, factory hands
against owners, and then giving as a modern instance the fight of the pedestrian to keep the
liberty of the highway, we are told that "the Senior History Lecturer and some others were
of the opinion that the whole thesis of the address was a gigantic leg-pull."

Chesterton must have seen again the fixed stare on the faces of the Nottingham tradesmen thirty
years earlier on the famous occasion when he himself "got up and played with water." But that
earlier audience had the intellectual advantage over the university professors that they

   Tried to find out what he meant
   With infinite inquiring.

Gilbert often said that his comic illustrations ought not to have prevented this. But it was
really more his inability to resist making himself into a figure of fun. He was funny and the
jokes were funny but they did prevent his really being given by all the position given him
by so many, of the modern Dr. Johnson.

It is possible, though not easy, to imagine Johnson dragged from the station to his hotel by
forty undergraduates of Aberystwyth while members of the O.T.C. secured a footing on the carriage
armed with a battle axe (borrowed from the Arts Department), hoes, rakes, spades, etc.--their
officers having refused them the privilege of bearing arms on the occasion.

But it is scarcely possible to imagine the Doctor called upon for a speech standing on the
steps of the hotel and saying, "You need never be ashamed of the athletic prowess of this College.
The Pyramids, we are told, were built by slave labour. But the slaves were not expected to
haul the pyramids in one piece!"*

[* Chesterton by Cyril Clemens, p. 50.]

In San Francisco I saw many people who had met Gilbert including a journalist who took him
to a "bootleg joint"--which is Western for a Speakeasy. There he asked for "some specialty
of the house" and was offered a Mule.

"Six of these babies will put you on your ear," remarked the bartender.

"What did he say about my ear?" Gilbert queried.

He downed three of the potent mixture, in spite of his theory against cocktails and his host
remarked his continued poise with admiration while the bartender commented "He can take it,"
another slang expression that appeared to be new to Gilbert. He told his host, Mr. Williams,
that he delighted in meeting such folk as bartenders and all the simpler people whom he saw
too seldom. This suggested an idea--would he come out to a school across the bay which could
not afford his fees, because it educated the daughters of poorer Catholics. He agreed at once
and not only talked to them brilliantly for three quarters of an hour, but also wrote for the
children about 50 autographs.

But of course, he had forgotten something--an engagement to attend a big social function. A
huge car arrived at the school complete with chauffeur and several agitated ladies. "Mr. Chesterton,
you have broken an important engagement." "I have filled an important engagement," he answered,
"lecturing to the daughters of the poor."

If it were possible for Gilbert to be better loved anywhere than in England that anywhere was
certainly America. From coast to coast I have met his devotees. I have come across only one
expression of the opposite feeling--and that from a man who seems (from his opening sentence)
to have been unable to stay away from the lectures he so detested:

   I heard Chesterton some six or seven times in this country. His
   physical make-up repelled me. He looked like a big eater and
   animalism is repugnant to most of us. His appearance was against him.

   Not one of his lectures seemed to me worth the price of admission
   and some of them were so bad that they seemed contemptuous morsels
   flung at audiences for whom he adjudged anything good enough.

