     Whilst oft discouragement, the imp,
       Would whisper in our breast,
     "'Tis folly to continue on;
       Go, leave it for the rest."

     But "onward, onward," was our cry,
       Though all around looked dim,--
     No cowards we who fear the storm,
       'Twas either "sink or swim."

     And our commander at the head,
       With truly master skill,
     Did spur us on, and teach us how
       Each duty to fulfill.

     Through the maze of outlines, straight and curved,
       Step by step, he led the way,
     Till hooks and circles, large and small,
       At length seemed plain as day.

     To his true service much we owe,
       And each of us, to-night,
     In a vote of earnest, sincere thanks,
       Do heartily unite.

     We meet to part, on this last night,
       Yet shall we fondly ever
     Turn to the happy hours spent
       In Mechanics' Hall together.

     And always shall our hearts respond,
       Ever grateful shall we be,
     For the kindness of the gentlemen
       Of the G. S. M. and T.

     Through them our lives shall brighter grow,
       Through them we shall aspire
     To better, nobler aims in life,
       Leading higher, ever higher.

     And may we from their kindness learn
       A royal truth and grand,--
     If we can others happier make,
       To lend a helping hand.

     And in the journey through this life,
       With heart, head and hand combined
     May we ever strive to do our best
       To elevate mankind.

A History of the Class of '90

BY MISS SABINE C. SCHINDHELM.

One evening, early in the Fall of '89, voices were heard in the school-room as though many
persons were talking at once. Suddenly the bell rang and the talking ceased. "What does this
mean?" you would have asked, and then, your curiosity getting the better of you, you would
have peeped in. Such a sight! At the front of the room were four or five rows of young girls,
books and pencils in hand, and on the platform stood a gentleman who was evidently their teacher.
What were they going to do? Why, take their first lesson in stenography, and you can see from
the number of bright and happy faces here to-night, what that first and each succeeding lesson
has done for them. Like little children just beginning to spell they began with the alphabet,
and step by step, gaining strength and courage, learning everything thoroughly, till at the
end of three months, they had laid a foundation upon which whatever followed could securely
rest; and, when the mid-winter examination came on (which had all along seemed like a great
wall that was insurmountable), they were able to scale it without much difficulty.

But you must not think this goal was reached without many mistakes which were sometimes very
disheartening, and sometimes very funny; as you will think when I tell you for the letter H
a tick is sometimes used; and one girl slanting this tick the wrong way wrote, "Pale, thou
poly king"; and another, who misplaced a vowel, wrote, "I like my live eel boy." However, these
errors only tended to make them more careful, and when they started the speeding course, it
served them a good purpose.

At the beginning of this course, they were addressed as "My dear reader," and told to observe
what they were told; then followed some maxims to be laid to heart, and a little dwarf was
introduced whose name was "Try." This little fellow had a way of making every one try to do
her best, and those who were unable to do very much at first he encouraged by giving them a
helping hand. After a while he left us and in his place stood a very impudent fellow known
by those with whom he had had dealings as "I Forgot," or "I Didn't Think;" but as soon as we
learned his mission, which you probably have guessed, or perhaps know from experience, we discharged
him and to secure ourselves from his return, sent the "Careful Dog" after him. Tom's uncle
then gave his opinion on Phonography, but although it had over four hundred words in it, it
did not amount to much as some of the girls got it down in less than three minutes.

Soon afterward John Smith received a letter from his brother Timothy Jenkins (this name was
given the latter by mistake by one of the girls), about some place in New York State where
they could spend a very nice vacation. This place had advantages in the way of fishing and
boating, lawn tennis and all the rest; but one of our number, who evidently thought more of
good solid comfort, wrote that there were "good furniture and bedding."

While thinking still of this delightful resort with all its acquisitions, the strong arm of
the law suddenly came down upon us and holding out a document to our wondering gaze demanded
the name of same. Then was heard a confusion of voices, every one guessing the wrong thing,
until one, who thought of course she knew, cried out "Oh, it's a divorce case!" It was no such
thing, however; it was a simple complaint, in which the husband and wife were plaintiffs. We
went through the entire pleadings of this case and when finished, took up another and another
until now we are not lawyers, but some are able to be stenographers for lawyers, and others
amanuenses.

Valedictory

BY MISS A. NATALIE KIRSCH.

Class of '90.

In the life of every person there are two important events, birth and death; the former marking
their advent into a state of action, and the latter their exit from it. The one is universally
a time of joy, the other a time of sorrow. This is true to such an extent that the time of
birth is popularly designated and commemorated as a day of feasting, the other as a day of
mourning. Whichever view we take of the matter this day will be one long remembered by all,
for it is both the day of birth and the day of death.

So with the birth of everything we attempt; its beginning is attended with a sort of pleasurable
excitement and diligence in the pursuit of the study we have entered upon, which lasts until
the novelty begins to wear off. Then comes the time when we find ourselves falling into a rut
from which, if we do not try hard to keep up our standard, it will be difficult to extricate
ourselves; but, if we summon all our energy and strive to overcome all impediments and will
work hard and adopt perseverance as our motto, we shall not fail of success in the end.

Our small army enlisted last October determined to fight against all the obstacles which might
present themselves in our journey toward success; and after passing through the hardest and
most tedious part of our work,--the mastering of the principles,--we found ourselves confronted
by an examination, which loomed up before us like a lofty and rugged mountain, which we knew
we must ascend if we would get that broad outlook which we must obtain for the work of the
remainder of the term.

Having safely passed that, after a week's recreation, we again assembled freshly armed to conquer
the difficulties of the speeding course. This proved to be the pleasanter part of our work,
and, after having spent five months with our teacher in this way, and having passed the final
examination, you see here to-night all who have been victorious in the battle.

We came before our leader total strangers to him and to each other, and many happy days have
we spent since first we saw his face, and every day has deepened our regard for him for having
been so patient with us. When we have been on the brink of despair, he has consoled us with
the assurance that better times were coming, and that, if we did not give up but would push
ahead and persevere, we would surely succeed.

The "unwearied sun" has performed his daily circuit, sometimes visible, and sometimes hidden
by the vapor laden clouds, but right onward, whether seen or unseen, has he gone, and time,
that never lingers, has rolled on rapidly and in its flight has brought us to this hour, ere
we were aware, and lo! it has already begun to snap the threads which have held us together
for the last eight months. Our lives have been speeding with the moments into the never-to-be-forgotten
past; but the tie which binds our hearts in Christian love and fellowship death itself cannot
sever.

The seeds of stenography, which were cast into our minds at the beginning of our lessons, made
their appearance as young and tender shoots when we arrived at the speeding course, and have
not only begun to blossom, but also to bear fruit, inasmuch as eight of our number are already
holding positions as stenographers and typewriters, and we hope they will soon arrive at full
maturity when we have all become experienced shorthand writers. These little plants need the
tenderest care and most watchful guidance, for, if neglected ere they are larger grown, and
the weeds of careless habits are not rooted out, they will be a source of great trouble and
annoyance in the acquiring of speed. How important then that they should be wisely directed!

We have now arrived at the completion of our course here in the capacity of learners; but only
to enter an enlarged sphere of action and there employ what we have here been enabled to acquire.
Not only have we been learning stenography but have been benefited in a number of other ways;
each lesson in its turn had some moral to convey and some new thought to suggest, which, while
teaching us some new form of work, and suggesting new ideas, all tended to elevate our minds.

To you, dear members of the G. S. M. & T., are we indebted for enabling us to acquire an honest,
well-paying profession, which is aiding so many young women to improve their condition in life,
and give substantial assistance to those dependent upon them. To our Instructor are we especially
grateful for his thoughtfulness and zeal in imparting instruction, and the affectionate solicitude
which he has shown for our welfare; nor would we forget the care bestowed upon us by the Assistant
Instructors, who have in many ways supplemented the instruction which we have received from
the Superintendent.

To you, dear classmates, I give my parting word of farewell. Often have we met together to
study our beloved shorthand, often have the difficulties seemed great enough to overwhelm us;
often have our sympathies been aroused by the need of help in one way or another, and now,
for the last time, we again assemble at this familiar spot. There can but arise in our breast
thoughts of sadness as we take leave of each other, for never again can we meet as the Class
of '90, but while we regret that this is our last evening together, we must bear in mind, that

    "A fleeting hour, a month, a year,
    Is all that God permits us here,
    That we may learn to prize more high
    That heavenly home beyond the sky."

Introductory Address

BY OLIVER BARRATT, ESQ.

To the Class of '91.

