There was a little study at the back of the house which was lined from top to bottom with soberly
bound and unrecent books, and dominated by a bust of Sir Walter Scott supported on a revolving
bookcase which contained the Waverley Novels, Burns' Poems, and Chambers' Dictionary, which
had an air of having been put there argumentatively, as a manifesto of the Scottish view that
intellect is their local industry. Here, in a fog of tobacco smoke, Mr. Mactavish James reclined
like a stranded whale, reading the London Law Journal and breathing disparagingly through both
mouth and nose at once, as he always did when in contact with the English mind. He did not
look up when Mr. Philip came in, but indicated by a "Humph!" that he was fully aware of the
entrance. There was an indefinable tone in this grunt which made Mr. Philip wonder whether
he had not been overmuch influenced in seeking this interview by the conventional view of the
parental relationship. He sometimes suspected that his father regarded him with accuracy, rather
than with the indulgence that fathers habitually show to their only sons. But he went at it.

"Father, you'll have to speak to yon Melville girl."

Mr. Mactavish James did not raise his eyes, but enquired with the faintest threat of mockery,
"What's she been doing to you, Philip?"

"She's not been doing anything to me. What could she do? But I've just seen her in Princes
Street with yon fellow Yaverland, the client from Rio. They were coming out of the station
and they took a cab."

"What for should they not?"

"You can't have a typist prancing about with clients at this time of night."

"It's airly yet," said Mr. Mactavish James mildly, continuing to turn over the pages of the
Law Journal. "We've not had our dinners yet. Though from the way the smell of victuals is roaring
up the back stairs we shouldn't be long."

"Father, people were looking at them. They--they were holding hands." He forced himself to
believe the lie. "You can't have her carrying on like that with clients. It'll give the office
a bad name."

At last his father raised his eyes, which, though bleared with age, were still the windows
of a sceptical soul, and let them fall. "Ellen is a good girl, Philip," he said.

The young man began a gesture of despair, which he restrained lest those inimical eyes should
lift again. This was not a place, he well knew, where sentimental values held good, where the
part of a young and unprotected girl would be taken against the son of the house out of any
mawkish feeling that youth or weakness of womanhood deserved especial tenderness. It was the
stronghold of his own views, its standards were his own. And even here it was insisted that
Ellen was a person of value. There seemed nothing in the world that would give him any help
in his urgent need to despise her, to think of her as dirt, to throw on her the onus of all
the vileness that had happened to him. He broke out, "If she's a good girl she ought to behave
as such! You must speak to her, father. There'll be a scandal in the town!"

Mr. Mactavish James seemed to have withdrawn his mind from the discussion, for he had taken
out his appointment diary, which could surely have nothing to do with the case. But when Mr.
Philip had turned towards the door, the old man said, amiably enough, "Ay, I'll speak to Nelly.
I'll speak to her on Monday afternoon. The morning I must be up at the Court of Session. But
in the afternoon I'll give the girl a word."

It was on the tip of Mr. Philip's tongue to cry, "Thank you, father, thank you!" but he remembered
that this was merely a matter of office discipline that was being settled, and no personal
concern of his. So he said, "I think it would be wise, father," and went out of the room. He
ran upstairs whistling. It would be a great come-down for her that had always been such a pet
of his father's to be spoken to about her conduct....

II

The door had swung ajar, so Mr. Mactavish James in his seat at his desk was able to look into
the further room and keep an eye on Ellen, who was sitting with her back to him, supporting
her bright head on her hand and staring fixedly down at something on the table. Her appearance
entertained him, as it always did. He chuckled over the shapeless blue overall, just like a
bairn's, that she wore on her neat wee figure, and the wild shining hair which resembled nothing
so much as a tamarisk hedge in a high wind, though she would have barked like a terrier at
anyone who suggested that it was not as neatly a done head as any in Edinburgh. But he was
very anxious about her. For some moments now she had not moved, and this immobility was so
unnatural in her that he knew she must be somehow deeply hurt, as one who sees a bird quite
still knows that it is dead or dying. "Tuts, tuts," he sighed. "This must be looked to. She
is the bonniest lassie that I've ever seen. Excepting Isabella Kingan." His right hand, which
had been lying listlessly on the desk before him, palm upwards, turned over when he thought
of Isabella Kingan. The fingers crooked, and it became an instrument of will, like the hand
of a young man.

But he was really quite old, nearly seventy, and well on the way to lose the human obsession
of the importance of humanity; so his attention began to note, as if they were not less significant
than Ellen's agony, the motes that were dancing in the bar of pale autumn sunshine that lay
athwart the room. "It is a queer thing," his mind droned on, "that when I came here when I
was young I saw there was a peck of dust in every room, and I blamed old Mr. Logan for keeping
on yon dirty old wife of a caretaker. I said to myself that when I was the master I would have
it like a new pin and put a decent buddy in the basement. And now Mr. Logan is long dead, and
the old wife is long dead, and I have had things my own way these many years, but the place
is still foul as a lum, and I keep on yon slut of a Mrs. Powell. Ah well! Ah well!" He pondered,
with a Scotch sort of enjoyment, on the frustration of youth's hopes and the progress of mortality
in himself, until a movement of Ellen's bright head, such a jerk as might have been caused
by a silent sob, brought his thoughts back to beauty and his small personal traffic with it.

"I do not know why she should mind me of Isabella Kingan. She is not like her. Isabella was
black as a wee crow. It is just that they're both very bonny. I wonder what has happened to
Isabella. She must be sixty-five. I saw her once in Glasgow, in Sauchiehall Street, after she
was married, but she would not speak. Yet what else could I have done? I had my way to make,
and it was known up and down the length of Edinburgh that her mother kept a sweetie shop in
Leith Walk, and she had a cousin who was a policeman in the town. No, no, it would not have
been a suitable marriage."

He moved restlessly in his chair, vexed by a sense of guilt, which although he immediately
mitigated it into a suspicion that he might have behaved more wisely, made his memory maliciously
busy opening doors which he had believed he had locked. But he was so expert in the gymnastic
art of standing well with himself and the world that he could turn each recollected incident
to a cause of self-approbation before he had begun to flush. For a few moments, using the idioms
of Burns' love-lyrics, which were the only dignified and unobscene references to passion he
had ever encountered, he thought of that night when he had persuaded little Isabella to linger
in the fosse of shadow under the high wall in Canaan Lane and give up her mouth to his kisses,
her tiny warm dove's body to his arms. Never in all the forty-five intervening years had he
seen such a wall on such a night, its base in velvety darkness and its topmost half shining
ghostly as plaster does in moonlight, without his hands remembering the queer pleasure it had
been to crush crisp muslin, without his heart remembering the joy it had been to coax from
primness its first consent to kisses. Before he could reproach himself for having turned that
perfect hour into a shame to her who gave it by his later treachery, he began to reflect what
a steady young fellow he had been to have known no other amorous incident in all his unmarried
days than this innocent fondling on a summer's night.

But there pressed in on him the recollection of how she had dwined away when she realised that,
though he had kissed her, he did not mean to marry her. He saw again the pale face she ever
after wore; he remembered how, when he met her in the street, she used at first to droop her
head and blush, until her will lifted her chin like a bearing-rein and she forced herself to
a proud blank stare, while her small stature worked to make her crinoline an indignant spreading
majesty behind her. Yet, after all, she was not the only person to be inconvenienced, for he
had fashed himself a great deal over the business and had slept very badly for a time. He exhorted
her reproachful ghost not to be selfish. Besides, she had somehow brought it on herself by
looking what she did; for her dark eyes, very bright, yet with a kind of bloom on them, and
her full though tiny underlip had always looked as if it would be very easy to make her cry,
and she had had a preference for wearing grey and brown and such modest colours that made it
plain she feared to be noticed. To display a capacity for pain so visibly was just to invite
people to test it. If she had been a girl who could look after herself, doubtless she would
have got him. He paid her the high compliment of wishing that she had, although he had done
very well out of the marriages he had made, for his first wife, Annie Logan, had brought him
his partnership in the firm, and his second, Christian Lawrie, had brought him a deal of money.
But Isabella had been such a bonny wee thing.

His skin became alive again, and remembered the few responding kisses that he had wheedled
from her, contacts so shy that they might have been the poisings of a moth. He shuddered, and
said, "Ech! Somebody's walking over my grave!" though, indeed, what had happened was that his
youth had risen from its grave. He decided to be generous to Isabella and not bear her a grudge
for causing him this revisiting heartache. With the softest pity that the lot of beauty in
this world should be so hard, though quite without self-condemnation, he thought how very sure
the poor girl must have been that he meant to marry her before she abandoned that proud physical
reserve that was the protecting integument of her sensitive soul. That sensitiveness seemed
fair ridiculous when things were going well with him; but once or twice in his life, when he
had been ill, it had appeared so dreadful that he had desired either to be young again and
give a different twist to things, or to die utterly and know no after-life.

No, dealing unkindly with the lasses was an ill thing to do. It made one depressed afterwards
even if it paid, just as cheating the widow and orphan did. His eyes went back to Ellen, who
had moved again. "I must settle this business of Nelly's," he thought. "Of course, Philip is
quite right. It would not be suitable. Besides, he is getting on nicely with Bob McLennan's
girl, and that would be a capital match even for us. But I must put things straight for my
Nelly, my poor wee Nelly." He rose, first feeling for his crutch, for he was fair dying on
his legs with the gout, and padded slowly towards the open door.

And at the sound of that soft bearish tread Ellen felt as if she were going to die. There had
arrived at last that moment for which she had waited with an increasing faintness all that
day, since the moment when Mr. Philip had caught her in front of the mantelpiece mirror. She
had gone to look at herself out of curiosity, to see whether she had in any way been changed
by the extraordinary emotions that had lately visited her. For she had spent two horrible nights
of hatred for Yaverland. She had begun to hate him quite suddenly when he brought her home
to say good-night to her mother. There had broken out the usual tumult in the dancing-hall,
and he had raised his head with an intent delighted look that at first she watched happily,
because she loved to see his face, which too often wore gravity like a dark mask, grow brilliant
with interest. But he quickly deleted that expression and shot a furtive glance at her, as
if he feared she might have overheard his thoughts, and she saw that he was anxious that she
should not share some imagination that had given him pleasure.

She went and sat on a low stool by the fire, turning her face away from him. So he was as little
friendly as the rest of the world. Surely it was plain enough that she lived in the extremity
of destitution. The only place that was hers was this drab little room with the shaking walls
and peeling chairs; the only person that belonged to her was her mother, who was very dear
but very old and grieving; and though everybody else on earth seemed to have acquired a paradise
on easy terms, nobody would let her look in at theirs. It appeared that he was just like the
others. She folded her arms across her breast to compress her swelling misery, while he sat
there, cruelly not hurrying, and said courteous things that afterwards repeated themselves
in her ear all night, each time a little louder, till by the dawn they had become ringing proclamations
of indifference.

Yaverland had turned on the doorstep as he left and told her that, though he believed he had
to motor-cycle to Glasgow the next day to see one of his directors there, it was just possible
there might be a telephone message at his hotel telling him he need not do so; and he had asked
that if this were so might he spend the time with her instead. Because of this she had lived
all Sunday in the dread of his coming. Yet very often she found herself arrested in the midst
of some homely action, letting some tap run on to inordinate splashings, some pot boil to an
explosion of flavoured fumes, because she was brooding with an infatuated smile on his rich
colours and rich ways, on the slouch by which he dissembled the strength of his body, the slow
speech by which he dissembled the violence of his soul. But there returned at once her hatred
of him, and she would long to lay her hand in his confidingly as if in friendship, and then
drive her nails suddenly into his flesh, so that she would make a fool of him as well as hurt
him. At that she would draw her cold hands across her hot brow, and wonder why she should think
so malignantly of one who had been so kind--so much kinder than anybody else had ever been
to her, although she had no claim upon him. Yet she knew that no argument could alter the fixed
opinion of her spirit that Yaverland's kingly progress through the world, which a short time
ago she had watched with such a singing of the veins as she knew when she saw lightning, was
an insult to her lesser height, her contemned sex, her obscurity. The chaos in herself amazed
her. The glass showed her that she was very pale, and she wondered if such pallor was a sign
of madness. "I will not go daft!" she whimpered, and began rubbing her cheeks with her knuckles
to bring back the colour; and saw among the quiet reflected things the queer face, its features
pulled every way with derision, of Mr. Philip.

He said twangingly, "Ten minutes past nine, Miss Melville!"

