Lord Lyndhurst was a man of great ability, eloquence, and astuteness. He was one of the comparatively
few men in our modern history who have made a mark in the Law Courts and in Parliament.  As
a Parliamentary orator he was the rival of Brougham, and the rivalry was all the more exciting
to the observers because it was a rivalry of styles as well as of capacities.  Lyndhurst was
always polished, smooth, refined, endowed with a gift of argumentative eloquence, which appealed
to the intellect rather than to the feelings, was seldom impassioned, and even when impassioned
kept his passion well within conventional bounds.  Brougham was thrilling, impetuous, overwhelming,
often extravagant, scorning conventionality of phrase or manner, revelling in his own exuberant
strength and plunging at opponents as a bull might do in a Spanish arena.  Lyndhurst's amendment
was one especially suited to bring to his side the majority of the Waverers.  It was plausible
enough in itself, and gave to many a Waverer, who must have had in his mind a very clear perception
of its real object, some excuse for persuading himself that, in voting for it, he was not voting
against the principle of reform. When the division came to be taken on May 7, 151 peers voted
for the amendment and 116 against it, thus showing a majority of 35 against {175} the Government,
by whom of course the amendment had been unreservedly opposed.

The country saw that a new crisis had come, and a crisis more serious than any which had gone
before.  There was only one constitutional course by which the difficulty could be got over,
and that was by the King giving his consent to the creation of a number of new peers large
enough to carry the Reform Bill through all its subsequent stages in the House of Lords.  Other
outlet of safety through peaceful means there was none.  Lord Grey's Ministry could not possibly
remain in office and see the measure, on which they believed the peace and prosperity of the
country to depend, left at the mercy of an irresponsible majority of Tory peers.  The King
was most unwilling to help his ministers out of the trouble, especially by such a process as
they had suggested, and in his heart would have been very glad to be rid of them and the Reform
Bill at the same time.  Charles Greville in his Memoirs makes several allusions to the King's
well-known dislike for the Whig ministers and his anxiety to get the Duke of Wellington back
again.  Lord Grey and his colleagues, finding it hard to get the King to recognize the gravity
of the situation, and to adopt the advice they had offered to him, felt that there was nothing
left for them but to resign office.  And the King was delighted to have a chance of recalling
the Duke of Wellington to the position of Prime Minister.

[Sidenote: 1832--The King seeks a Prime Minister]

The poor muddled-headed old King in fact could not understand that the question submitted to
him allowed of no middle course of compromise. He seemed to think he had gone far enough in
the way of conciliation when he offered to allow his ministers to create a certain number of
peers.  No concession, however, could be of the slightest use to the Ministry unless the power
were conceded to them to create as many new peers as might be necessary to overbear all opposition
to the Reform Bill.  The struggle was in fact between the existing House of Lords and the vast
majority of the nation.  One or other must conquer.  The only constitutional way in which the
existing opposition of the House of Lords could be overborne was by the creation of a number
of new peers great enough to turn the majority of the House of Lords into a minority.

Lord Grey and Lord Althorp were not, it is hardly necessary to say, men who shared in the popular
sentiment, which would, if it could, have abolished altogether the hereditary principle in
legislation.  But Lord Grey and Lord Althorp read the signs of the times, and saw clearly enough
that if the House of Lords were allowed to stand much longer in the way of the Reform Bill
the result would be probably a political revolution which would abolish the House of Lords
altogether. Therefore the ministers could make no terms with the King short of those which
they had offered, and as the King did not see his way to accept their conditions there was
nothing left for them but to resign office.  Accordingly Lord Grey tendered his resignation
and that of his colleagues, and the King, after much indecision and mental flurry, thought
he could do nothing better than to accept the resignation, and try to find a set of ministers
more suitable to his {177} inclinations. He sent for Lord Lyndhurst and entered into conversation
with that astute lawyer and politician, and Lord Lyndhurst advised him to send for the Duke
of Wellington.  The Duke was sent for, but the Duke had not much to say which could lend any
help to the King in his difficulties.  Wellington saw distinctly enough that there was no alternative
but that which lay in the choice between reform and some sort of popular revolution.  We have
seen already in these volumes how Wellington preferred to accept Catholic Emancipation rather
than take the risk of plunging the country into civil war.  In the case of the Reform Bill
he would have acted, no doubt, upon the same principle if driven to the choice, but after the
repeated and energetic denunciations of reform which he had delivered in the House of Lords
he did not think that it would be a fitting part for him, even for the sake of helping the
sovereign out of his constitutional trouble, to be the Prime Minister by whom any manner of
Reform Bill should be introduced.  Wellington therefore strongly urged the King to send for
Sir Robert Peel, and declared that he himself would lend all the support he possibly could
to a Peel Administration.  Peel was sent for accordingly, but Peel was too far-seeing a statesman
to believe that he could possibly hold office for many weeks unless he yielded to the full
demands of the country, and his political principles would not have allowed him to go so far
as that.  He did his best to make it clear to the King that no administration but a reform
administration could stand, and that, if a reform administration had to be accepted, there
was nothing better to be done than to invite Lord Grey and Lord John Russell back again to office.

Meanwhile the country was aroused to a fervor of enthusiasm in favor of reform, which seemed
only to increase with every delay and to grow stronger with every opposition.  Public meetings
were held in Birmingham of larger size than had ever been gathered together in England before,
and resolutions were passed by acclamation which were almost revolutionary in their character.
In many cities and towns appeals were made for a run on the {178} bank, a run for gold, and
there were alarming signs that the advice was likely to be followed to such a degree as to
bring about utter confusion in the money market. In the City of London an immense meeting was
held, at which resolutions were passed calling on the House of Commons to stop the supplies
unless the King accepted the councils of the Whig statesmen and gave them authority for the
election of new peers.  The overwhelming strength of the demand for reform may be easily estimated
when it is remembered that the majority in the great cities and towns, and also in the counties,
were for once of the same opinion.  In more than one great political controversy of modern
times, as in the free-trade agitation for example, it has happened that the town population
were of one opinion and the county population of another.  But at the time which we are now
describing the great cities and towns were all nearly unrepresented, and in their demand for
representation they were of one mind and one spirit with the county populations, which called
out for a real and not a sham representation.  There will probably always be a question of
curious speculation and deep interest to the students of history as to the possibility of a
great revolution in England if the King had made up his mind to hold out against the advice
of the Whig statesmen and to try the last chance.  It is certain that the leading Whig nobles
were considering, with profound earnestness, what course it might be necessary for them to
take if the King were absolutely to refuse all concession and to stand by what he believed
to be his sovereign right to set up his own authority as supreme.  If the choice should be
forced on them, would these Whig nobles stand by the obstinate King or throw in their lot with
the people?  This grave question must have been considered again and again in all its bearings
by the Whig leaders during that time of terrible national crisis.

[Sidenote: 1832--The Whig nobles and the military]

It would seem to be beyond all question that some, at least, of the Whig nobles were contemplating
the possibility of their having to choose between the King and the people, and that their minds
were made up, should the worst come {179} to the worst, to side with the people. Many years
afterwards, during the State trials at Clonmel which followed the Young Ireland rebellion of
1848, evidence was brought forward by the counsel for the defence of Mr. Smith O'Brien and
his fellow-prisoners to prove that the Whig nobles during the reform crisis in England had
been in communication with Sir Charles Napier, the great soldier, for the purpose of ascertaining
how the army would act if there should come to be a struggle between the sovereign claiming
despotic rights and the people standing up for constitutional government.  All this, however,
is now merely a question of interesting historical speculation.  The King had tried Wellington,
had tried Peel, had sent for Wellington a second time, and found that Wellington, though he
dared do all that might become a man, saw nothing to be gained for sovereign or State by an
attempt to accomplish the impossible, and William at last gave way.  It was about time that
he did so.  William was becoming utterly unpopular with the great mass of his subjects.  He
who had been endowed with the title of the Patriot King was now to be an object of hatred and
contempt to the crowds in the streets with whom from day to day he could not avoid being brought
into contact.  When his carriage appeared in one of the great London thoroughfares it was followed
again and again by jeering and furious mobs, who hissed and groaned at him, and it was always
necessary for his protection that a strong escort of cavalry should interpose between him and
his subjects.  Even in the London newspapers of the day, those at least that were in favor
of reform, and which constituted the large majority, language was sometimes used about the
King which it would be impossible to use in our days about some unpopular Lord Mayor or member
for the City.

All this told heavily upon poor King William, who was a good-natured sort of man in his own
way if his ministers and others would only let him alone, and who rather fancied himself in
the light of a popular sovereign.  He therefore made up his mind at last to accept the advice
{180} of his Whig ministers and grant them the power of creating as many new peers as they
thought fit, for the purpose of passing their importunate Reform Bill.  The consent was given
at an interview which the King had with Lord Grey and Lord Brougham, Lord Brougham as keeper
of the royal conscience taking the principal conduct of the negotiations on behalf of the Government.
The King, as usual on such occasions, was flurried, awkward, and hot-tempered, and when he
had made up his mind to yield to the advice of his ministers he could not so far master his
temper as to make his decision seem a graceful concession.  Even when he announced that the
concession was to be made the trouble was not yet quite over.  Lord Brougham thought it necessary
to ask the King for his consent in writing to the creation of the new peers, and hereupon the
wrath of the sovereign blazed out afresh.  The King seemed to think that such a demand showed
a want of confidence in him which amounted to something like an insult, and he fretted and
stormed for a while as though he had been like Petruchio "aboard carousing to his mates." 
After a while, however, he came into a better humor, and perhaps saw the reasonableness of
the plea that Lord Grey and Lord Brougham could not undertake the task now confided to them
without the written warrant of the King's authority.  William therefore turned away and scratched
off at once a brief declaration conferring on his ministers the power to create the necessary
number of peers, qualifying it merely with the condition that the sons of living peers were
to be called upon in the first instance.  The meaning of this condition was obvious, and its
object was not unreasonable from the King's point of view, or, indeed, from the point of view
of any statesman who was anxious that the House of Lords should be kept as long as possible
in its existing form.  Nobody certainly wanted to increase the number of peers to any great
extent, and if only the eldest sons of the living peers were to be called to the House of Lords
each would succeed in process of time to his father's title and the roll of the peerage would
become once again as it had been before.

{181}

[Sidenote: 1832--Passage of the third Reform Bill]

The political crisis was over now.  When once the royal authority had been given for the unlimited
creation of new peers there was an end of all the trouble.  Of course, there was no necessity
to manufacture any new batches of peers.  As the Reform Bill was to be carried one way or the
other, whether with the aid of new peers or without it, the Tory members of the House of Lords
could not see any possible advantage in taking steps which must only end in filling their crimson
benches with new men who might outvote them on all future occasions.  The Reform Bill passed
through all its stages in the House of Lords, not without some angry and vehement discussions,
during which personal recriminations were made that would have been considered disorderly at
the meeting of a parish vestry.  One noble lord denounced the conduct of Lord Grey as atrocious,
and even the stately Lord Grey was roused to so much anger by this expression that he forgot
his habitual self-control and dignity and replied that he flung back the noble lord's atrocious
words with the utmost scorn and contempt.

The Bill passed its third reading in the House of Lords on June 4, 1832, and received the royal
assent on June 7.  The royal assent, however, was somewhat ungraciously given.  King William
declined to give his assent in person, a performance which, at the time, seemed to be expected
from him, and it was signified only by the medium of a formal committee.  The Bill, however,
was passed, the third Reform Bill that had been introduced since Lord Grey had come into office.
The Reform Bills for Ireland and Scotland which had gone through their stages in the House
of Commons immediately after the Bills relating to England and Wales were then carried through
the House of Lords.  The great triumph was accomplished.

It is not without historical interest to notice the fact that a long discussion sprang up at
this time and was revived again and again, during many successive years, with regard to certain
words used by Lord John Russell in expressing his satisfaction at the passing of the Reform
Bill.  He was endeavoring to calm the apprehensions of timid {182} people throughout the country
who feared that the whole time of Parliament would thenceforward be taken up with the passing
of new and newer Reform Bills, and he declared that the Government of which he was a member
had no intention but that the Reform Act should be a final measure.  It might have seemed clear
to any reasonable mind that Lord John had no idea of proclaiming his faith in the absolute
finality of any measure passed, or to be passed, by human statesmanship, but was merely expressing
the confident belief of his colleagues and himself that the Bill they had passed would satisfy
the needs and the demands of the existing generation.  At the time, however, a storm of remonstrance
from the more advanced Liberals broke around Lord John Russell's head, and he was charged with
having declared that the Reform Act was meant to be a measure for all times, and that he and
his colleagues would never more set their hands to any measure intended to broaden or deepen
its influence.  There were indeed popular caricatures of Lord John to be seen in which he was
exhibited with the title of "Finality Jack."  Lord John's public career proved many times,
in later days, how completely his meaning had been misunderstood by some of those whose cause
he had been espousing, for all through his honored life he continued to be a leader of reform.
But the common misunderstanding of the phrase was in itself significant, for it seemed to foretell
the fact that the Bill, with all the great changes it had introduced and the new foundations
it had laid for the future system of constitutional government, was in itself indeed far from
being a final measure.  The authors of the Reform Bill had left what might now be called "the
masses" almost altogether out of their calculations.  The rate at which the franchise was fixed
for town and country rendered it practically impossible that the artisan in the town or the
laborer in the country could have any chance whatever of obtaining a vote.

[Sidenote: 1832--Some defects in the Reform Bill]

This was the one great defect of the Reform Bill introduced by Lord Grey and Lord John Russell.
Perhaps it would not have been prudent for these statesmen, at that {183} time, to enter on
the introduction of a more comprehensive measure.  Perhaps Lord Grey and Lord John Russell
would have preferred of their own judgment not to introduce too comprehensive a reform measure
all at once, and to allow the franchise to broaden slowly down.  But it is certain that almost
immediately after the passing of the Reform Bill a profound feeling of disappointment began
to grow and spread among the classes who found themselves excluded from any of its benefits,
and who believed, with good reason, that they had rendered much practical service in the carrying
of the measure.  The feeling prevailed especially among the artisans in the cities and towns.
In some of the towns the Reform Bill had distinctly operated as a measure of disfranchisement
rather than of enfranchisement.  In Preston, for instance, there had been so large a number
of what we have called, adopting a more modern phrase, "fancy franchises" that something not
very far removed from universal suffrage was attainable by the male population.  These fancy
franchises could not be justified on any principle commending itself to rational minds, and
it was, moreover, an obvious absurdity to have one system of voting prevailing in this constituency
and a totally different system prevailing in another.  Therefore Lord Grey and Lord John Russell
cannot be censured for their resolve to abolish the fancy franchises altogether.  They were
introducing an entirely new constitutional system, and it was evident that in the new system
there must be some uniform principle as to the franchise.  But it is none the less certain
that the men who were disfranchised by an Act professedly brought in to extend the suffrage
must have felt that they had good reason to complain of its direct effect upon themselves and
upon what they believed to be their rights.  Nearly forty years of agitation had yet to be
gone through before the principal deficiencies in the Reform Act of 1833 were supplied by Liberal
and Tory legislation.

Before closing this chapter of history it is fitting to take notice of the fact that the debates
on the Reform Bill gave opportunity for the public opening of a great career in {184} politics
and in literature--the career of Lord Macaulay.  [Sidenote: 1832--Thomas Babington Macaulay]
Thomas Babington Macaulay was a new member of the House of Commons when the first Reform Bill
was introduced by Lord John Russell.  He was the son of Zachary Macaulay, who was famous in
his day, and will always be remembered as the high-minded philanthropist and the energetic
and consistent opponent of slavery and the slave trade.  Macaulay the son had, from his earliest
years, given evidence of precocious and extraordinary intelligence and versatility.  When he
entered Parliament he found that his fame had gone before him, but his friends were not quite
certain whether he was to be poet, essayist, historian, or political orator.  As years went
on, he proved that he could write brilliant and captivating poems; that he could turn out essays
which had a greater fascination for the public than many of the cleverest novels; that he could
write history which set critics disputing, but which everybody had to read; and that he could
deliver political speeches in the House of Commons which, when correctly reproduced from the
newspapers, appeared to belong to the highest class of Parliamentary eloquence.  It may well
be questioned whether any man could possibly attain supreme success in the four fields in which,
from time to time, Macaulay appeared to be successful.  At present we are only concerned with
the speeches which he delivered in the House of Commons during the debates on the Reform Bills.
Macaulay's appearance was not impressive, and he had a gift of fluency, a rapidity of utterance
which continued, from first to last, to be a most serious difficulty in the way of his success
as a Parliamentary orator.  He appears to have committed his speeches to memory, and his memory
was one of the most amazing of all his gifts; and when he rose to deliver an oration he rattled
it off at such a rate of speed that the sense ached in trying to follow him, and the reporters
for the newspapers found it almost impossible to get a full note of what he said.  This was
all the more embarrassing because his speeches abounded in illustrations and citations from
all manner of authorities, authors, and historical incidents, and the bewildered {185} reporter
found himself entangled in proper names which shorthand in the pre-phonetic days could but
slowly reproduce.  The speeches, when revised by the author, were read with intense delight
by the educated public, and with all the defects of the orator's utterance he soon acquired
such a fame in the House of Commons that no one ever attracted a more crowded and eager audience
than he did when it became known that he was about to make a speech.  We may quote here a characteristic
description given by Greville of his first meeting with Macaulay in the early February of 1833,
while the struggle over Lord Russell's third Reform Bill was still going on. We are here only
at the opening of Macaulay's great career.  Even at this time the world seemed to have made
up its mind that Macaulay had a great career before him.  At the present day, when more than
forty years have passed over his tomb in Westminster Abbey, it is a question still keenly contested
every now and then, whether Macaulay fully realized or barely failed to realize the expectations
which men were forming of him on that day when Charles Greville met him for the first time,
and was amazed to find, as the conversation went on, that he was sitting next to Macaulay.

[Sidenote: 1832--Death of Sir Walter Scott]

The year of the Reform Bill was marked by an event forever memorable in the history of literature.
That event was the death of Sir Walter Scott.  The later years of Scott's life, as we all know,
had been darkened by the failure of his publishers, by the money troubles in which that failure
had involved him, by the exhausting efforts he had to make to force his wearied mind into redoubled
literary exertion, and, more than all, by the loss of the wife who had been his devoted companion
for so many years.  No words could be more sorrowful and more touching in their simplicity
than those in which Scott declared that after his wife's death he never knew what to do with
that large share of his thoughts which always, in other {187} days, used to be given to her.
He had gone out to Italy, obeying the advice of his friends, in the hope of recovering his
health under warmer skies than those of his native land, but the effort was futile.  It was
of no use his trying to shake off his malady of heart and body by a change of air.  He carried
his giant about with him, if we may apply to his condition the expressive and melancholy words
which Emerson used with a different application.  Scott was little over sixty years of age
when he died--a time of life at which, according to our ideas of longevity at the present day,
we should regard a man as having hardly passed the zenith of his powers and his possibilities.
He had added a new chapter to a history of the world's literature.  He had opened a new school
of romance which soon found brilliant pupils in all countries where romance could charm.  There
have been many revolutions in literary rulership since his time, but Walter Scott has not been
dethroned.

{188}

CHAPTER LXXIV.

THE EMANCIPATION OF LABOR.

[Sidenote: 1832--The slave trade]

The statesmen who had carried the Reform Bill soon found that they had taken upon themselves
a vast responsibility.  They had accomplished so great a triumph that most men assumed them
to be capable of any triumph.  It has to be remembered that they had succeeded in establishing
one principle which, up to that time, had never been recognized, the principle that a constitutional
sovereign in these countries cannot any longer set up his own authority and his own will in
opposition to the advice of his ministers.  Up to the days of William the Fourth, the ministers
always had to give way to the sovereign at the last moment, if the sovereign insisted on maintaining
his dictatorial authority.  We have seen how one of the greatest of English statesmen, the
younger Pitt, had bowed his judgment and even coerced into silence the remonstrances of his
own heart and his own conscience, rather than dispute the authority of an obstinate and a stupid
King.  Lord Grey and his colleagues had compelled their King to listen to reason, and probably
not even they knew at the time the full importance of the constitutional principle which they
had thus established.  In our own days, and under the rule of the first really constitutional
sovereign who ever reigned in these countries, we seem to have almost forgotten that there
ever was a time when the occupant of the throne was understood to have a right to govern the
people according to royalty's own inclination or royalty's own notion of statesmanship.  When
the passing of the Reform Bill was yet the latest event in history, the people of these countries
commonly, and very justly, regarded this assertion of the right of a representative Ministry
to exact support from {189} the sovereign as one of the greatest triumphs accomplished by Lord
Grey's Administration.  The natural feeling therefore was to assume that the men who had done
these great things could do greater things still, and from all parts of the realm eyes were
turned upon them, full of confidence in their desire and their capacity to accomplish new reforms
in every department of our constitutional and our social system.

The time was one especially favorable for such hopes and for such achievements.  A new era
had opened on the civilized world.  New ideas were coming up regarding the value and the validity
of many of our constitutional and social arrangements which had formerly been considered as
inspired and sanctified forever by that mysterious influence, the wisdom of our ancestors.
If education had not yet made much way among the masses of the people, at least the belief
in popular education was becoming a quickening force in the minds of all intelligent men. 
Then, as ever since, the agitation for each great new reform began outside the walls of Parliament,
and had to take an organized shape before it became a question for the House of Commons. The
first great work to which the reformed Parliament applied itself, after the conditions of Lord
Grey's Act had been allowed to take effect in remoulding the constituencies, was the abolition
of negro slavery in the colonies of Great Britain.  Domestic slavery and the slave trade had
already been abolished, but in the minds of a great number of well-meaning, well-informed,
and by no means hard-hearted men slavery in our colonies was a very different sort of institution
from slavery in our own islands, or from the actual trade in slaves.  The ordinary Englishman,
when he troubled himself to consider such questions at all, had settled it in his own mind
that slavery in England, or in any part of the British Isles, was incompatible with the free
constitution of the realm, and that the forcible abduction of men and women from African sea-shores
in order to sell them into slavery was an offence against civilization and Christianity.  But
this average Englishman did not see that there was anything like the same {190} reason for
interfering with the system of slave labor as we had found it established, for instance, in
our West Indian colonies.  "We did not introduce the system there," it was argued; "we found
it established there; we inherited it; and its continuance is declared, by all those who know,
to be absolutely essential to the production of the sugar which is the source of profit and
the means of living to the islands themselves, and an indispensable comfort, a harmless and
healthful luxury, to millions of civilized beings who never stood under a tropical sky."  The
mind of the average Englishman, however, had been, for some time, much disturbed by the arguments,
the pleadings, and the agitation of a small number of enlightened Reformers, at first much
in advance of their time, who were making a pertinacious crusade against the whole system of
colonial slavery.  Some of these men have won names which will always be honored in our history.
Zachary Macaulay was one of these.  He was the father of the Macaulay whom we have just heard
of as seated side by side with Charles Greville at Lord Holland's dinner-table.  Zachary Macaulay
had been the manager of a great West Indian estate, but he had given up the position because
his conscience would not allow him to have anything to do with the system of slavery, and he
had come home to devote his time, his abilities, and his earnestness to the generous task of
rousing up his countrymen to a full sense of the horrors which were inseparable from the system.
He was able to supply men like Brougham, like Fowell Buxton, and like Whitbread with practical
facts beyond dispute to establish the realities of slavery in the West Indian colonies.  Among
the more obvious, although not perhaps even the most odious, accompaniments of the system were
the frightful cruelties practised on the slaves, the flogging, the mutilation, and the branding
of men, women, and children which formed part of the ordinary conditions of a plantation worked
by slave labor.  Over and over again it had been denied by men who professed to know all about
the subject and to be authorities upon it that any such cruelties were practised on a well-regulated
plantation belonging to a {191} civilized owner.  It was constantly argued, with self-complacency,
that the planter's own interests would not allow him thus to mar the efficiency of the human
animals who had to do his work, and that even if the planter had no pity for them, he was sure
to have a wholesome and restraining consideration for the physical value of his own living
property.

[Sidenote: 1832--The horrors of the slave trade]

Zachary Macaulay and the Buxtons, the Wilberforces and the Whitbreads, were able to give innumerable
and overwhelming proofs that the system every day was working such evils as any system might
be expected to work which left one set of human beings absolutely at the mercy of another set
of human beings.  Many years after this great controversy had won its complete success for
the English colonies, a chief justice of the Supreme Court of the United States laid it down
as law that a slave had no rights which his owner was bound to respect.  Up to the time of
which we are now writing, it was certainly assumed, in our West Indian colonies, as a self-evident
doctrine, utterly beyond dispute or question, that a slave had no rights which his owner was
bound to respect.  The band of resolute philanthropists who had taken up the subject in England
were able to show that frequent flogging of men and women was a regular part of the day's incidents
of every plantation, and that branding was constantly used, not merely as a means of punishment,
but also as a means of identification.  It was a common practice when a female slave attempted
to escape for her owner to have her branded on the breast with red-hot iron as an easy means
of proving her identity if she were to succeed for a time in getting out of his reach.  Numbers
of advertisements were produced in which the owners, seeking through the newspapers for the
recovery of some of their women slaves, proclaimed the important fact that the fugitive women
were branded on both breasts, and that thus there could be no difficulty about their identification.
We need not go further into the details of the subject, but it may be as well to mention that
we have not touched at all upon the most revolting evidences of the horrors which seemed to
{192} be the inevitable accompaniment of the slave system.  Brougham was one of the first among
leading Englishmen who threw his heart and soul into the agitation against colonial slavery.
Long before that agitation approached to anything like success he had brought forward a motion
in the House of Commons, directing attention to the evils and the horrors of the system, and
calling for its abolition.  For a time, successive Governments did not see their way to go
any further than to endeavor to bring about or to enforce better regulations for the use of
slave labor on the colonial plantations.  Even these modest measures of reform had many difficulties
to encounter.  Some of the colonies were under the direct dominion of the Crown, were governed,
in fact, as Crown colonies, but others had legislative chambers of their own, and refused to
submit to the dictation of the authorities at home.  These legislative chambers in most cases
resented the interference of the home Government when it attempted to introduce new rules for
the treatment of negro slaves, and the whole plantation interest rallied in support of the
great principle that every owner of slaves had an absolute right to deal with them according
to his own will and pleasure.

[Sidenote: 1832--Anti-slavery agitation]

It was loudly asserted by the planters and by the friends of the planters--and of course the
planters had friends everywhere in England--that the sugar-growing business could not be carried
on with any profit except by means of slave labor, and that the slaves could not be got to
work except by the occasional use of flogging or other such needful stimulant.  The negroes,
it was loudly declared, would rise in rebellion if once it became known to them that the English
Parliament was encouraging them to consider themselves as slaves no longer, and their mode
of rising in rebellion would simply be a simultaneous massacre of all the planters and their
wives and children. "See what you are doing!" many a voice cried out to the anti-slavery agitators;
"you are preaching a crusade which will not merely end in the utter bankruptcy of the West
Indian Islands, but in the massacre of all the planters, their wives, and their children."
The agitators, however, were neither {193} dismayed nor disheartened.  It would have taken
a good deal of sophistry to confuse the conscience of Zachary Macaulay or Wilberforce.  It
would have taken a good deal of bellowing to frighten Brougham.  The agitation went on with
increasing force, and Brougham continued to denounce "the wild and guilty phantasy" that man
has property in man.

In Jamaica the colonial legislature, pressed hard by the Government at home, passed an Act
with the avowed purpose of mitigating the severity of the punishments inflicted on slave laborers.
The Act, however, was, even on the face of it, absurdly inadequate for any humane purpose.
The home Government had demanded, among other reforms, the entire discontinuance of the flogging
of women.  The colonial Act allowed the flogging of women to go on just as it had done before.
The Jamaica planters were indignant at the course taken by the home authorities, and raved
as if they were on the verge of rebellion against the Crown, and the well-meant interference
of the Government at home seemed in fact to have done more harm than good.  In Demerara, which
was the Crown colony, some of the more intelligent among the negro slaves had heard scraps
of talk which led them to believe that the King of England and his Government were about to
confer freedom upon the colored race, and these reports spread and magnified throughout certain
plantations, and the slaves on one estate refused to work.  Their refusal was regarded as an
insurrection and was treated accordingly.  The most savage measures were employed to crush
the so-called insurrection, just as in more recent, and what ought to have been more enlightened,
days some local disturbances in Jamaica were magnified into a general rising of the blacks
against the whites, and the horrors perpetrated in the name of repression startled the whole
civilized world.  In Demerara an English dissenting missionary, the Rev. John Smith, who had
been known as a most kindly friend of the negroes, was formally charged with having encouraged
and assisted the slaves to rise in revolt against their masters.  He was flung into prison,
was treated with barbarous {194} rigors such as might have seemed in keeping with some story
of Siberia; he was put through the hurried process of a sham trial in which the very forms
of law were disregarded, and he was sentenced to death.  Even at Demerara and at such a time
the court-martial which had condemned the missionary as guilty of the offence with which he
was charged had accompanied its verdict with a recommendation to mercy on account of the prisoner's
previous good character.  But before it could be decided whether or not the recommendation
was to have any effect, the unfortunate man died of the treatment he had received.

[Sidenote: 1830--Parliamentary action against slavery]

The story of the accusation, the trial, and the death created an immense sensation in England.
Brougham, Buxton, Sir James Mackintosh, the historian and scholar, and many others aroused
the public indignation by their rightful denunciations of the trial and the verdict.  The Government
condemned and reversed the proceedings at the trial, and when Brougham brought on a motion
in the House of Commons, publicly branding with just severity the whole conduct of the Demerara
authorities, his motion was only defeated by a small majority. Meanwhile, the agitation against
the whole system of colonial slavery was receiving new impulse and new strength from the teaching
of new events in the colonies, and in May, 1830, a great meeting was held in London to demand,
not the mitigation, but the total abolition of slavery in every land over which the flag of
England floated.  This meeting was presided over by the great abolitionist, William Wilberforce,
who had been out of public life for some time owing to severe ill-health, and who believed
that he could not more fitly celebrate his return to the active work of philanthropy than by
taking the chair at such a demonstration.  Mr. Buxton proposed a resolution calling on the
country to agitate for the total abolition of slavery in the colonies, and to be content with
nothing else, and the resolution was carried by enthusiastic acclamation.  Brougham at once
became the champion of the great London meeting by a motion which he brought forward in the
House of Commons.  One of the greatest speeches of his lifetime {195} was made in justifying
his appeal to the House for the total abolition of a system which admitted of nothing like
partial, or what is called moderate, reform, and must either be swept out of existence altogether
or remain a curse to those who enforce it as well as to those against whom it is enforced.
Brougham's motion was defeated, of course.  We say of course because it was only a motion made
by an independent member, as the phrase goes, and was not proposed by the leader of a strong
Government, determined to stake its existence on the carrying of its proposition.  Every great
reform, it may almost literally be said, is heralded in Parliament by the motions of independent
members, who are sure to be defeated, but whose determined efforts have success enough to make
the leader of the Government, or the leader of the Opposition, feel that the time is near at
hand when the cause must be taken up by one or other of the great parties in the State.

Buxton raised the whole question in the following session; and then Lord Althorp, speaking
for the Government, went so far as to offer a sort of compromise by suggesting that the colonies
which in the future should give evidence of their sincere resolve to make distinct improvement
in the condition of their slaves should be rewarded and encouraged by a permission to send
their sugar into English ports at a reduced rate of duty.  The country, however, had long outgrown
the condition of mind in which this feeble and ridiculous proposition could be regarded as
worthy of serious consideration.  The notion of sacrificing any part of the country's revenues
for the purpose of bribing the planters to deal a little less severely with their slaves was
not likely to find much favor among the men who had thus far conducted the great agitation
against slavery.  The object of reformers such as Clarkson, Wilberforce, Buxton, Brougham,
and Mackintosh was not merely that the negroes should be flogged less often, or that the negro
women should not be flogged at all, but that the whole abominable system which made men, women,
and children the absolute property of their owners should be brought to an end forever.

{196}

[Sidenote: 1833--A plan for the abolition of slavery]

At last it became evident to the Whig Ministry that something definite must be done, and that
nothing would be considered definite by the country which did not aim at the total abolition
of slavery.  The hour had come, and the man who could best turn it to account in the House
of Commons was already in his place.  Lord Stanley, who had joined the Reform Ministry as Secretary
to the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, had since that time been moved to the higher position of
Colonial Secretary, and to him was appropriately confided the task of introducing the measures
which the Government had determined to take. The Lord Stanley of those days was in after years
the Earl of Derby, whom some of us can still call to mind as one of the most brilliant orators
in the House of Lords at a time when Brougham and Lyndhurst maintained the character of that
assembly for parliamentary eloquence. Those among us who remember the eloquent Lord Derby,
the Rupert of debate, remember him as a Tory Prime Minister or the Tory leader of Opposition
in the House of Lords.  But he began his great Parliamentary career as a Whig and as a Reformer,
and he was one of the most zealous of Lord Grey's colleagues in pressing forward the great
measure which was carried to success in 1832.  Among those who can remember him there is only
one opinion about the high order of his Parliamentary eloquence, and that opinion is that he
was a worthy rival of Gladstone and of Bright.  To him as Colonial Secretary was entrusted
the task of bringing forward, in the House of Commons, the measures of the Government for dealing
with the question of slavery in the British colonies.  Stanley's speech was such a magnificent
blending of reason and emotion, so close and so powerful in its arguments, so thrilling in
its eloquence, that many of those who heard the speech naturally expected that it was destined
to announce a bold and a comprehensive policy.  A certain feeling of disappointment came up
among the abolitionists when the measures were described which the Government had resolved
to submit to the House of Commons.  What Stanley had to propose was not a complete measure,
but a {197} series of resolutions embodying the purposes of the Government's policy.  It is
enough to say that the Government proposed a plan which amounted to a scheme of abolition by
stages.  There was to be a certain period of apprenticeship, a term of fifteen years, during
which the slaves, men and women, were to continue to work for their masters as before, under
conditions gradually relaxing as the slave drew nearer to the time of emancipation, and then
when that hour at length arrived the slave was to be free forever.  This principle, however,
was not to apply to children under six years old at the time of the passing of the measure,
or to any children born after that time.  The idea on which the whole scheme was founded was
the notion, very common at that time and since, that the sudden emancipation of any set of
human beings could only tend to bewilder them, and to prevent them from making a proper use
of the freedom thus abruptly thrust upon them.  "The fool in the fable," said Macaulay, when
dealing with a somewhat similar question, "declared that no man ought to go into the water
until he had learned to swim."  Lord Grey's Ministry had apparently much the same idea about
the perils of emancipation.  Another part of the scheme proposed that fifteen millions should
be advanced by the Government as a loan to the West Indian planters in order to help them over
the diminution of income which might be expected to follow any interference with the conditions
of slave labor.

The resolutions put forward by the Government were regarded as highly unsatisfactory by most
of the leading abolitionists.  Macaulay indeed argued with all his usual eloquence and skill
in favor of the principle of gradual abolition, and it is hardly necessary to say that it was
not in that speech he made use of the pithy sentence which we have already quoted.  Buxton
proposed an amendment to the resolution, an amendment in fact calling for immediate abolition,
and the amendment was seconded by Daniel O'Connell.  Buxton, however, was prevailed upon not
to press his amendment on the ground that the Government were as eager for emancipation as
any one could {198} be, and that Lord Grey and his colleagues were only anxious to bring forward
such a measure as might at once secure the support of the majority and prevent further delay,
while securing, at the same time, the ultimate and not distant settlement of the whole question.
O'Connell stood firm, argued strongly against the proposed compromise, refused to accept it,
and actually pressed Buxton's amendment to a division.  Of course he was defeated by a large
majority, but he carried a respectable minority along with him; and few now can doubt that
the amendment which he pressed forward, even after its proposer had abandoned it, was right
in its principle, and that the Government, if forced to it, could have carried a plan for immediate
abolition with little more difficulty than was found in carrying the scheme of compromise.
As the discussion went on the Government made some further concessions to the abolitionists,
by reducing the time and modifying the terms of the apprenticeship system, and the abolitionists
in general believed it their wisest policy to accept the modified arrangement and thus avoid
any further delay.  Another alteration of great importance was made by the Government in favor
of the planters, and was finally accepted by the abolitionists and by the country in general.
The friends of the planters made strong representations to the effect that the proffered loan
would be of no use whatever to the owners of slaves whose property was so soon to pass from
their hands into freedom, and that there was not the slightest chance of the planters being
able to pay back to the English exchequer the amount that the Government was willing to advance.
It was urged, too, with some show of reason, that the planters were not themselves responsible
for the existence of slave labor, that generations of planters had grown up under the system
and had made a profit by it during the days when civilization had not, anywhere, set its face
against slavery, and that it was hard, therefore, to make them suffer in pocket for the recent
development in the feelings of humanity.  The offer of a loan was abandoned by the Government,
and it was proposed instead that a gift of twenty millions sterling should {199} be tendered
as compensation for the losses that the planters would be likely to undergo.  This proposal,
at first, met with some opposition, and by many indeed was looked upon as an extravagant freak
of generosity; but some of the leading abolitionists were willing to make allowance for the
condition of the planters, and most, or all, of them were prepared to make a large sacrifice
for the sake of carrying some measure which promised, even by gradual advances, the final abolition
of the slave system.  We may condense into a very brief space the remainder of the story, and
merely record the fact that the Government carried their amended measure of emancipation with
its liberal grant to the West Indian planters through both Houses of Parliament, and that it
obtained the royal assent.

[Sidenote: 1833--Slavery abolished in British colonies]

It may easily be imagined that poor King William must have had some mental struggles before
he found himself quite in a mood to grant that assent.  If the King ever had any clear and
enduring opinion in his mind, it probably was the opinion, which he had often expressed already,
against the abolition of slavery.  He had, of course, a general objection to reform of any
kind, but his objection to any reform which threatened the endurance of the slave system must
have been an article of faith with him.  It was the fate of King William the Fourth to live
in a reign of reforms, not one of which would appear to have touched his heart or been in accordance
with his personal judgment.  The highest praise that history can give him is that he did not
at least, as one of his predecessors had done, set his own judgment and his own inclination
determinedly and irrevocably against the advice of the statesmen whom he had called in to carry
on the work of administration.  The King gave his assent to the amended Bill for the abolition
of slavery, including the generous gift to the planters, and the measure became law on August
27, 1833.  Some of the colonies had the sense and spirit to discard the apprenticeship system
altogether, and to date the emancipation of their slaves from the day when the measure became
an Act of Parliament.  In no colony did the setting free of the negroes bring about any of
the troubles and turmoils, the {200} lawless outbreaks of blacks against whites, the massacres
of the innocents, which had been so long and so often pictured as the inevitable consequences
of the legislation demanded by the Clarksons, the Wilberforces, the Buxtons, and the Broughams.
It seems to us all now so much a matter of course for a civilized and enlightened State to
decree the extinction of slavery within its limits, that we find it hard to appreciate at its
true value the difficulty and the splendor of the achievement which was accomplished by the
Grey Ministry.  It has to be said, however, that the Ministry and the Parliament were, in this
instance, only the instruments by which the great charge was wrought. The movement carried
on out-of-doors, the movement set going by the leading abolitionists and supported by the people,
deserves the chief honor of the victory.  All the countries that make up the kingdom, England,
Ireland, Scotland, and Wales, sent their authorized speakers to sustain the cause of freedom
for the slaves.  The gift, which on the recommendation of Lord Grey's Ministry was placed at
the disposal of the West Indian planters, was indeed a lavish gift; but the public in general
made little complaint on the score of its lavishness, and did not calculate too jealously the
value of the sacrifice which the State was invited to make for the purchase of negro emancipation.
Thirty years and more had to pass before the great American republic was able to free itself
from the curse of slavery, and even then the late deliverance was only accomplished at the
cost of a war which threatened for the season a permanent division of the States.

[Sidenote: 1833--Labor legislation]

The same year which saw the passing of the measure for the abolition of slavery in the colonies
saw also the passing of an Act which interfered seriously, for the first time, with something
which might almost be called a system of domestic slavery.  We are speaking now of the measure
which dealt with the conditions of factory labor in these countries.  Factory labor, as it
was known in the early days of William the Fourth, was the growth of modern civilization. 
England had found that her main business in life was not the conquest and the subjection of
foreign races, {201} or the building or the navigating of ships, or the cultivation of land,
or the growth of corn, but the manufacture of goods for her own domestic use and for export
all over the world. Great manufacturing cities and towns were growing up everywhere, and, while
the workers on the land were becoming fewer and fewer, the workers in the city factories were
multiplying every day, so that an entirely new laboring population was coming up to claim the
attention of the State.  Since the old days, when the whole social organization was conducted
according to the dictates of some centralized authority, there had been growing up, as one
of the inevitable reactions which civilization brings with it at its successive stages, a sort
of vaguely expressed doctrine that the State has no right to interfere between capital and
labor, between the employer and the employed.  This theory naturally grew and grew with the
growth of the capital invested in manufactures and the increase in the number of employers,
and it was found in later years than those at which we have now arrived, that the course of
agitation that Lord Ashley may be said to have begun was opposed mainly in its progress by
the capitalists and the employers of labor, many of whom were thoroughly humane men, anxious
to do the very best they could for the health and the comfort of those whom they employed,
but who sincerely believed that the civil law had no right to interfere with them and those
who worked for them, and that the civil law could do only harm and no good by its best-intentioned
interference.

The whole controversy has now been long settled, and it is a distinctly understood condition
of our social system that the State has a right to interfere between employer and employed
when the condition of things is such that the employed is not always able to protect himself.
At the time when Lord Ashley started on his long and beneficent career there was practically
no law which regulated the hours and the conditions of labor in the great factories.  The whole
factory system, the modern factory system as we understand it, was then quite a new part of
our social organization.  The factory, with its little army of workers, {202} men, women, and
children, was managed according to the will and judgment of the owner, unless in the rare cases
where the demand for labor far exceeded the supply.  In most places the supply exceeded the
demand, and the master was therefore free to make any conditions he pleased with his workers.
If the master were a humane man, a just man, or even a far-seeing man, he took care that those
who worked for him should be fairly treated, and should not be compelled to work under conditions
dangerous to their health and destructive of their comfort. But if he were a selfish man, or
a careless man, the workers were used merely as instruments of profit by him, or by those immediately
under him; and it did not matter how soon they were used up, for there could always be found
numbers enough who were eager to take their places, and were willing to undertake any task
on any terms, for the sake of securing a bare living.  Lord Ashley raised the whole question
in the House of Commons, and brought forward a motion which ended in the appointment of a commission
to inquire into the condition of the men, women, and children who worked in the factories.
The commission was not long in collecting a vast amount of information as to the evils, moral
and physical, brought about by the overworking of women and children in the factories.  The
general concurrence of public opinion, even among those who supported Lord Ashley's movement,
did not seem to go beyond the protection of women and children.  The adult male, it was considered,
might perhaps safely be left to make the best terms he could for himself; but the inquiries
of the commission left little doubt among unprejudiced minds that something must be done to
secure women and children from the evils of overwork.  Lord Ashley succeeded in forcing the
whole question on the attention of Parliament, and an Act was passed in 1833 which did not
indeed go nearly as far as Lord Ashley would have carried his principle, but which at least
established the right of legislative interference for the protection of children and young
persons of both sexes.  The Act limited the work of children to eight hours a day and {203}
that of young persons under eighteen to sixty-nine hours a week.  This Act may be regarded
as the beginning of that legislative interference which has gone on advancing beneficially
from that time down to our own, and is likely still to keep on its forward movement.

[Sidenote: Lord Shaftesbury]

Lord Ashley, whom many of us can well remember as Lord Shaftesbury, may be said to have given
up the whole of his life to the general purpose with which he began his public career--the
object of endeavoring to mitigate the toils and sufferings of those who have to work hard in
order to provide for others the comforts and the luxuries of life.  His principle was that
the State has always a right to interfere for the protection of those who cannot protect themselves.
He was not a man of great statesmanlike ability, he was not a man of extensive or varied information,
he was not a scholar, he was not an orator, he was not in the ordinary sense of the word a
thinker, but he was a man who had, by a kind of philanthropic instinct, got hold of an idea
which men of far greater intellect had not, up to his time, shown themselves able to grasp.
The story of his life is part of the whole story of the industrial development of modern civilization.
Again and again he worked with success in movement after movement, initiated mainly by himself,
for the protection and the education of those who toil in our factories and in our mines. 
Some day no doubt Parliament may have to devise legislation which shall do for the women and
children employed in field labor something like that which Lord Ashley did for the women and
children employed in factories and in mines.  We have seen that already efforts are made in
every session of Parliament to extend the principle of the factory legislation into various
industrial occupations which are common to city life.  For the present, however, we have only
to deal with the fact that one of the first labors accomplished by the Reformed Parliament
was the establishment of that legislative principle with which Lord Ashley's name will always
be associated.

Let it be added that, with the establishment of that principle, came also the introduction
of two innovations in our {204} factory system which lent inestimable value to the whole measure.
One of these was the appointment of a number of factory inspectors, who were authorized to
see that the purposes of the Act were properly carried out by the employers, and to report
to the Government as to the working of the whole system and the necessity for further improvements.
The other was the arrangement by which a portion of the time of all the younger workers in
the factories was set apart for educational purposes, so that children should no longer be
treated as mere machines for the making of goods and the earning of wages, but should be enabled
and compelled to have their faculties developed by the instruction suited to their years. 
This provision in the Factories Act may be regarded as the first step towards that system of
national education which it took so much trouble and so many years to establish in these countries.
Lord Ashley had great work still to accomplish; but even if his noble career had closed with
the passing of the Factories Act in 1833, his name would always be remembered as that of a
man who, more than any other, helped to turn the first Reformed Parliament to the work of emancipating
the English laboring classes in cities and towns from a servitude hardly less in conflict with
the best interests of humanity than that which up to the same year had prevailed on the plantations
of Jamaica and Demerara.  The Reformed Parliament had still much difficult work to call out
its best energies and to employ its new resources, but it had begun its tasks well, and had
already given the country good earnest of its splendid future.

{205}

CHAPTER LXXV.

THE STATE CHURCH IN IRELAND.

[Sidenote: 1832--"Dark Rosaleen"]

A saying which has been ascribed to a well-known living Englishman, who has made a name for
himself in letters as well as in politics, may be used as the introduction to this chapter.
The saying was that no man should ever be sent as Chief Secretary to the Lord-Lieutenant of
Ireland who could not prove that he had thoroughly mastered the meaning of the noble Irish
poem rendered by Clarence Mangan as "Dark Rosaleen." The author and statesman to whom we refer
used to point the moral of his observation, sometimes, by declaring that many or most of the
political colleagues for whose benefit he had spoken had never heard either of Clarence Mangan
or of "Dark Rosaleen."  Now, as it is barely possible that some of the readers of this volume
may be in a condition of similar ignorance, it is well to mention that Clarence Mangan was
an Irish poet who was dear to the generation which saw the rise of the Young Ireland movement
during O'Connell's later years, and that the dark Rosaleen whom Mangan found in the earlier
poet's ballad is supposed to typify his native country.  The idea of the author and statesman
was that no Englishman who had not studied this poem, and got at the heart of its mystery,
so far as to be able to realize the deep poetic, pathetic love of the Celtic heart for the
soil, the traditions, and the ways of the Celtic island, could attempt with any success to
undertake the government of the country.  We have now come to a period in this history when
the Irish question, as it is called, came up once again, and in a new form, to try the statesmanship
of English rulers. We have told the story of '98, and how the rebellion ended in complete defeat
and disaster.  Up to the {206} time at which we have now arrived there was no more talk of
rebellion in the field, but in the sullen heart of Irish discontent there still lived all the
emotions which had animated Lord Edward Fitzgerald, Wolfe Tone, and Robert Emmet.

[Sidenote: 1832--The tithe question in Ireland]

When the rebellion was put down the Government of King George the Third abolished the Irish
Parliament, and then all loyal and sensible persons in Westminster assumed, of course, that
there was an end of the matter. The rebellion had been put down, the principal rebels had been
done to death, Grattan's troublesome and tiresome Parliament had been extinguished, Ireland
had been merged into complete identification with England, and surely nothing would be heard
of the Irish question any more.  Yet the Irish question seemed to come up again and again,
and to press for answer just as if answer enough had not been given already. There was a clamor
about Catholic Emancipation, and at last the Irish Catholics had to be emancipated from complete
political disqualification, and their spokesman O'Connell had been allowed to take his place
in the House of Commons.  Sir Robert Peel had carried Catholic Emancipation, for, although
a Tory in many of his ways of thinking, he was a statesman and a man of genius; and now Lord
Grey, the head of the Whig Government, had no sooner passed the Reform Bill than he found himself
confronted with the Irish question in a new shape.  We could hardly wonder that Sir Robert
Peel or Lord Grey did not try to inform their minds as to Irish national feeling through a
study of "Dark Rosaleen," for the good reason that no such poem had yet been given to the world.
But neither Peel nor Grey was a type of the average Englishman of the times, and each had gradually
borne in upon him, by a study of realities if not of poetic fancies, that the national sentiment
of the Irishman was not to be eradicated by any Act of Parliament for his denationalization.
Lord Grey, as the friend and pupil of Fox, who had always been the friend of Ireland, must
have acquired, as a part of his early political training, the knowledge that Ireland's grievances
were not all {207} sentimental, and that if they were to be dealt with by Acts of Parliament
these Acts must take the part of relief and not of repression.  It may well be questioned whether
any population is disturbed for very long by mere sentimental grievances, and it may be doubted
also whether the true instinct of statesmanship does not always regard the existence of what
is called a sentimental grievance as the best reason for trying to find out whether there is
not some practical evil at the root of the complaint. Certainly, in Lord Grey's time, the grievances
were open and palpable enough to have attracted the attention of any man whose mind was not
as well contented with the wisdom of his ancestors as that of King William himself.

Just at this time, as we have seen, a school of Englishmen was springing up: Englishmen whose
minds were filled with new ideas, and who thoroughly understood the tendencies of the reforming
age to which they belonged.  The Irish tithe question had come up for settlement. The Irish
tithe question was only a part of the Irish State Church question.  The Irish State Church
was an institution bestowed upon Ireland by her conquerors.  Five-sixths, at least, of the
population of Ireland belonged to the Church of Rome and were devoted to the religion of that
Church.  The island was nevertheless compelled to maintain the State Church, which did not
even represent the religious belief of the one-sixth of the population that was not Roman Catholic.
One of the privileges of the State Church was to exact tithes from all the farmers of the country
for the maintenance of its clergymen.  Ireland was almost altogether an agricultural country,
and had but little to do with manufacturing industry, and in three out of the four provinces
of Ireland the farmers, almost to a man, held to the religion of their Catholic forefathers
and worshipped only at the altars of their faith. It would be seen, therefore, that the imposition
of tithes for the support of the State Church ministers was not merely a sentimental grievance,
but a very practical grievance as well.  It was practical because it exacted the payment of
a tribute which the farmer believed he ought not to be called {208} upon to pay, and it was
sentimental because, while it extorted the money from the farmer's pocket, it also insulted
his nationality and his faith.

[Sidenote: 1832--Difficulty in collecting the tithes]

The result was that a sort of civil war was perpetually going on in Ireland between those who
strove to collect the tithes and those from whom the tithes were to be collected.  The resistance
was sometimes of the fiercest character; the farmers and their friends resisted the forces
sent by the Government to seize the cattle of those who refused to pay, as if they were resisting
an army of foreign invaders.  Blood was shed freely and lavishly in these struggles, and the
shedding of blood became so common that for a while it almost ceased to be a matter of public
scandal.  Sydney Smith declared that the collection of tithes in Ireland must have cost in
all probability about one million of lives.  Police, infantry, and dragoons were kept thus
in constant occupation, and yet it could not possibly be contended that those who claimed the
tithes were very much the better for all the blood that was shed on their behalf.  For when
a farmer's cattle had been seized by the police after an obstinate fight with the farmers and
their friends, and when the cattle had been driven off under the escort of infantry and cavalry
soldiers, the clergyman who claimed the tithes was not always any nearer to the getting of
that which the law declared to be his own.  The familiar proverbial saying about the ease with
which a horse may be brought to the water and the difficulty there may be in getting him to
drink when he has been brought there was illustrated aptly and oddly enough in the difference
between seizure of the farmer's cattle and the means of raising any money on them when they
had been seized.  The captured cattle could not in themselves be of much use to the clergyman
who claimed the tithes, and they would naturally have to be sold in order that he might get
his due, and the question arose who was to bid for them.  All the farmers and the peasantry
of the country were on the one side, and on the other were the incumbent, a few of his friends,
and the military and police.  It was certain that the soldiers and the policemen would not
bid for the cattle, and probably {209} could not pay for them, and the population of the district
would have made the place very uncomfortable for any of the clergymen's friends who showed
an anxiety to buy up the impounded beasts.  In some cases when cattle were sold by public auction
no bidder ventured to come forward but the farmer himself who owned the cattle, and they had
to be knocked down to him at a purely nominal price because there was no possible competitor.
The farmer drove home his beasts amid the exultation of the whole neighborhood, and the clergymen
was as far off his tithes as ever.  The passive resistance in fact was harder to deal with,
as far as practical results went, than even the resistance that was active.  Summon together
by lawful authority a number of soldiers and police, and it is easy to shoot down a few unarmed
peasants, and to dispose for the hour of popular resistance in this prompt and peremptory way.
But what is to be done when the resistance takes the form of a resolute organized refusal to
pay up the amounts claimed or to offer any price for the cattle seized in default of payment?
There were in every district numbers of quiet Catholic parishioners who would much rather have
paid their share of the tithes to the Protestant clergymen than become drawn into quarrels
and local disturbances and confusion.  But such men soon found that if they paid their tithes
they put themselves in direct antagonism to the whole mass of their Catholic neighbors.  Intimidation
of the most serious kind was sometimes brought to bear upon them, and in any case there was
that very powerful kind of intimidation which consists in making the offender feel that he
has brought on himself the contempt and the hatred of nearly all his fellow-parishioners and
his fellow-religionists.  In those days it was not lawful to hold a public political meeting
in Ireland, but there were anti-tithe demonstrations got up, nevertheless, over three parts
of Ireland.  These demonstrations took the outward form of what were called hurling matches,
great rivalries of combatants, in a peculiar Irish game of ball.  Each of these demonstrations
was made to be, and was known to be, a practical protest against the collection of the tithes.
{210} Whenever it became certain that the recusant farmer's cattle were to be seized, a great
hurling match was announced to be held in the immediate vicinity, and the local magistrates,
who perhaps had at their disposal only a few handfuls of police or soldiery, were not much
inclined to order the seizure in the presence of such a cloud of witnesses.  Nor would any
Catholic parishioner who had quietly paid up his tithes without resistance have felt very comfortable
if he had happened to come near the hurling field that day, and to hear the loudly expressed
comments of his neighbors on his line of conduct.  To make the troubles still deeper, it often
happened that the claimant of the tithes was an absentee--the incumbent of many a parish in
Ireland left his curate to look after his flock and his tithes alike--and the absentee was
almost as much hated in Ireland as the tithe-collector.

[Sidenote: 1832--The tithe question in Parliament]

Now it must not be supposed that there were not many of the Protestant clergy in Ireland who
utterly disapproved of the tithe system.  One Protestant clergyman in England, from whom we
have just quoted, the Rev. Sydney Smith, had denounced the system over and over again in language
the most indignant and the most scornful that even his scathing humor could command.  But there
were numbers of Protestant clergymen in Ireland who saw and proclaimed its injustice and its
futility.  The Archbishop of Dublin declared that no Government could ever accomplish the collection
of tithes in Ireland otherwise than at the point of the bayonet.  Protestant country clergy
often found that the very attempts to collect the tithes only brought increased distress and
hardship upon themselves.

Many a poor Protestant clergyman saw the utter injustice of the system, and disliked and detested
it almost as much as the Roman Catholics themselves could have done.  There were many such
men, too, who put up with miserable poverty rather than make any attempt to recover such an
income by force.  Great English speakers and writers were beginning to denounce the whole system.
Macaulay stigmatized it as severely as Sydney Smith had done.  George {211} Grote, the historian
of Greece, who had then a seat in the House of Commons, had not only condemned it, but had
condemned the whole State Church system of which it was only a part.  In our own days the ordinary
English reader finds it hard to understand how any such system could have been carried on under
a civilized European Government.  Such a reader will readily admit that Sydney Smith had not
gone beyond the limits of sober assertion when he declared that "there is no abuse like it
in all Europe, in all Asia, in all the discovered parts of Africa, and in all we have ever
heard of Timbuctoo."  The subject had been brought up in Parliament by some of the advanced
reformers of the day, and, indeed, it was bringing itself before the notice of Parliament every
week through the official reports of the disturbances which were taking place in various parts
of Ireland.

The House of Lords had appointed a committee to inquire into the whole subject.  The committee
reported that a complete extinction of the tithe system was demanded, not only in the interests
of Ireland but in the interests of the State Church itself, and suggested, as a means of getting
out of the difficulty, that the tithes might be commuted for a charge upon land or by an exchange
for an investment in land.  This meant, in other words, that the collection of tithes should
be devolved upon the landlord, leaving him to repay himself by a corresponding addition to
the rent which he asked from his tenants.  The House of Commons also appointed a committee
to inquire into the subject, and the recommendation of that committee was in substance very
much the same as the recommendation made by the committee appointed by the House of Lords.

The Government then took up the question, and in 1832 Lord Althorp announced that it was the
intention of ministers to submit to the House of Commons a scheme of their own as a temporary
settlement of the Irish tithe question, and out of which was to be developed, in time, a measure
for the complete removal of the difficulty.  A very brief description will serve to explain
the nature of {212} this measure. The Government proposed to advance a certain sum of money
for the relief of the tithe-owners who had not been able to recover what the law held to be
their due, and in the meantime to apply themselves to the preparation of some scheme which
might transfer the tithe burden from the occupiers to the owners of the land.  The Government
thus admitted that at the moment they did not see their way altogether out of the tithe difficulty,
but promised to apply their minds to the discovery of some final and satisfactory settlement,
and undertook until then to pay to incumbents the arrears of tithes, and to collect the money
as well as they could from the indebted occupiers.  In point of fact, Lord Althorp and his
colleagues proposed to become the tithe-collectors themselves and to let any loss that might
be incurred fall, for the time, upon the State and the national taxpayers.  The plan was tried
for a while, and we need hardly say that it proved altogether unsatisfactory.  The Government
had no better means of compelling the farmers to pay the tithes than those means which they
had already vainly put at the disposal of the tithe-owners.  The farmer who could not be coerced
by the police and the military into settling his accounts with the incumbent was not likely
to be any the more ready to pay up because the demand for payment was made by the Lord-Lieutenant.

[Sidenote: 1834--Henry Ward and the Irish Church]

It was becoming more and more evident every day that the whole conditions of the State Church
in Ireland were responsible for the trouble of which the tithes difficulty was only an incident.
Already a party was forming itself in the House of Commons composed of intellectual and far-seeing
men who recognized the fact that the Irish State Church was in its very principles an anomaly
and an anachronism. On May 27, 1834, a debate on the whole question of the Irish State Church
and its revenues was raised in the House of Commons by Mr. Henry Ward, one of the most advanced
reformers and thoughtful politicians whom the new conditions of the franchise had brought into
Parliament. Henry Ward was a son of that Plumer Ward who was at one time famous as the author
of a novel {213} called "Tremaine."  If any memory of "Tremaine" lingers in the minds of readers
who belong to the present generation, the lingering recollection is probably only due to the
fact that in Disraeli's "Vivian Grey" there is an amusing scene in which the hero makes audacious
use of an extemporized passage, which he professes to find in Plumer Ward's novel.  Henry Ward,
the son, afterwards won some distinction by his administration of the Ionian Islands while
the islands were under the charge of Great Britain.  In our Parliamentary history, however,
he will always be remembered as the author of the first serious attempt to obtain a national
recognition of the principle which, within our own times, secured its final acknowledgment
by the disestablishment of the Irish Church.  The resolution which was proposed merely declared
that the Protestant Episcopal Establishment in Ireland exceeded the wants of the Protestant
population, and that, it being the right of the State to regulate the distribution of Church
property in such manner as Parliament might determine, it was the opinion of the House that
the temporal possessions of the State Church in Ireland ought to be reduced.  This resolution
went no further in words, as it will be seen, than to ask for a reduction of the revenues of
that Church on the ground that it had already more funds than were required for the full discharge
of its duties among those who attended its ministrations.  But then the resolution also assumed
the right of the State to institute an inquiry into the application of the revenues and the
needs of the surrounding population, and would necessarily carry with it the assertion of the
principle that the Irish State Church existed only to minister to the wants of the Protestants
of Ireland.  It is clear that if once this principle were recognized by the State the whole
theory of the Established Church in Ireland could no longer be maintained.  That theory was
that the State had a right to uphold and a duty to perform in the maintenance of a Protestant
Establishment in Ireland for the purpose of converting to its doctrines that vast majority
of the Irish population who could not be driven, even at the bayonet's point, to attend the
{214} services conducted by a Protestant pastor.  Only a few years after this time the great
statesman who was afterwards to obtain from Parliament the disestablishment of the Irish Church
was arguing, in his earliest published work, that the fewer the Protestants in Ireland the
greater was the necessity for the State to be lavish of its money with the object of converting
the outer population of Ireland to the established religion.  Mr. Ward, in his speech, set
himself to make it clear to the House of Commons that the collection of tithes in Ireland was,
at that time, the principal cause of the disturbance and disaffection which brought so much
calamity on the unhappy island, and prevented any possibility of its becoming a loyal part
of the British dominions.  He showed by facts and figures that the opposition to the collection
of tithes was not any longer confined to the Catholic population alone, but had spread among
the Protestants of dissenting denominations, and was showing itself in the North of Ireland,
as well as in the provinces of the South and the West and the Midlands.  He pointed to the
fact that it was found necessary to maintain in Ireland, for the purpose of collecting the
tithes, an army larger than that which England needed for the maintenance of her Indian Empire,
and that, nevertheless, it was found impossible to collect the tithes in Ireland, and that
the Government could suggest nothing better than a project for the payment of the tithes out
of the pockets of the national taxpayer.  Mr. Ward made it clear to the House of Commons that
the revenues of the State Church in Ireland were not distributed with anything like a view
to the fair and equal remuneration of its clergy.  In numbers of cases the clergy of the higher
ranks had enormous incomes, quite out of all proportion to any duties they were even supposed
to perform, while the clergymen who actually did the work were, as a general rule, screwed
down to a pitiful rate of payment which hardly kept soul and body together.  Twenty pounds
a year was not an uncommon stipend among the curates who did the hard work, while an annual
revenue of sixty pounds was regarded as something like opulence.  Where the curate received
his thirty {215} or forty pounds a year or less, the incumbent usually had his two thousand
a year, and in many instances much more.  As we said before, the incumbent deriving a rich
revenue from his office was often habitually an absentee, who left the whole of his work to
be performed, as best it might be done, by the curate, half starving on a miserable pittance.
Mr. Ward made out a case which must have produced some impression on any Parliamentary assembly,
and could hardly fail to find attentive listeners and ready sympathy among the members of the
first reformed House of Commons.

[Sidenote: 1834--George Grote]

The motion was seconded by a remarkable man in a remarkable speech. Mr. George Grote, afterwards
famous as the historian of Greece, was one of the new members of Parliament.  He was a man
of a peculiar type, of an intellectual order which we do not usually associate with the movement
of the political world, but which is, nevertheless, seldom without its representative in the
House of Commons.  Grote was one of the small group of men who were, at that time, described
as the philosophical Radicals.  He acknowledged the influence of Bentham; he was a friend and
associate of the elder and the younger Mill; he was a banker by occupation, a scholar and an
author by vocation; a member of Parliament from a sense of duty.  Grote, no doubt, was sometimes
mistaken in the political conclusions at which he arrived, but he deserved the praise which
Macaulay has justly given to Burke, that he was always right in his point of view.  With Grote
a political measure was right or wrong only as it helped or hindered the spread of education,
human happiness, and peace.  He was one of the earliest and most persevering advocates of the
ballot system at elections, and during his short Parliamentary career he made the ballot the
subject of an annual motion.  Some of us can still well remember George Grote in his much later
days, and can bear testimony to the fact that, to quote the thrilling words of Schiller, he
reverenced in his manhood the dreams of his youth.  We can remember how steady an opponent
he was of slavery, and how his sympathies went with the cause of the North during the {216}
great American civil war.  One can hardly suppose that Grote's style as a speaker was well
suited to the ways of the House of Commons, but it is certain that whenever he spoke he always
made a distinct impression on the House.  Some of us who can remember John Stuart Mill addressing
that same assembly at a later day, can probably form an idea of the influence exercised on
the House by the man who seemed to be thinking his thoughts aloud rather than trying to win
over votes or to catch encouraging applause.  Grote's speech on Ward's motion brought up one
view of the Irish Church which especially deserved consideration.  Grote dealt with the alarms
and the convictions of those who were insisting that to acknowledge any right of Parliament
to interfere with the Irish State Church would be to sound in advance the doom of the English
State Church as well.  He pointed out that, whatever difference of opinion there might be as
to the general principle of a State Establishment, the case of the two Churches, the English
and the Irish, must be argued upon grounds which had nothing in common.  Every argument which
could be used, and must be used, for the State Church of England was an argument against the
State Church in Ireland.  The State Church of England was the Church to which the vast majority
of the English people belonged.  It ministered to their spiritual needs, it was associated
with their ways, their hopes, their past, and their future.  If an overwhelming majority in
any country could claim the right, by virtue of their majority, to set up and maintain any
institution, the Protestant population of England could claim a right to set up a State Church.
But every word that could be said in support of the English State Church was a word of condemnation
and of sentence on the State Church in Ireland.  The Irish State Church was the Church of so
small a minority that, when allowance had been made for the numbers of dissenting Protestants
in Ireland, it was doubtful whether one in every twelve of the whole population could be claimed
as a worshipper in the temples maintained and endowed by law.  Moreover, the Irish State Church
was a badge of conquest, and was {217} regarded as such by the whole Celtic population of the
island. The tithe exacted from the Irish Catholic farmer was not merely a tribute exacted by
the conqueror, but was also a brand of degradation on the faith and on the nationality of the
Irish Celt who was called upon to meet the demand.  The student of history will note with some
interest that, at a day much nearer to our own, the Lord Stanley whose name we shall presently
have to bring up in connection with this debate on Mr. Ward's motion made use, in the House
of Lords, of an appeal which suggested the idea that he had not heard or had forgotten George
Grote's speech on which we have just been making comment.  Not very long before his death Lord
Derby, as he had then become, was declaiming in the House of Lords against the proposal to
disestablish the Irish State Church, and he warned the House that if the fabric of the Irish
Church were to be touched by a destroying hand it would be in vain to hope that the destruction
of the English State Church could long be averted.  [Sidenote: 1834--Lord Derby]  Lord Derby
had always a very happy gift of quotation, and he made on this occasion a striking allusion.
He reminded the House of that thrilling scene in Scott's "Guy Mannering" where the gypsy woman
suddenly presents herself on the roadside to the elder, the Laird of Ellangowan and some of
his friends, and, complaining of the eviction of her own people from their homesteads, bids
the gentlefolk take care that their own roof-trees are not put in danger by what they had done.
Lord Derby made use of this passage as a warning to the prelates and peers of England that,
if they allowed the Irish State Church to be disestablished, the statelier fabric of their
own Church in England might suffer by the example.  It was pointed out at the time, by some
of those who commented on Lord Derby's speech, that George Grote had answered this argument
by unconscious anticipation, and had shown that the best security of the English State Church
was the fact that it rested on a foundation totally different from that of the State Church
in Ireland.

The Government were greatly embarrassed by all this {218} discussion as to the condition, the
work, and the character of the Establishment in Ireland.  Lord Grey, whose whole nature inclined
him to move along the path of progress with slow, steady, and stately steps, began to chafe
against the eagerness with which the more Radical reformers were endeavoring to hurry on the
political movement.  It was necessary that the Government should announce a purpose of one
kind or another--should either give a general sanction to the inquiry into the claims and merits
of the Irish Church, or declare themselves against any movement of reform in that direction.
It was found hardly possible for the Government to ally themselves with the followers of old-fashioned
Toryism, and it soon began to be rumored that Lord Grey could only keep on the reforming path
at the cost of losing some of his most capable colleagues.  Before long it was made publicly
known that the rumors were well founded.  Lord Stanley and Sir James Graham resigned their
places in the Ministry.  Graham afterwards held office in more than one Administration that
might well be called Liberal, but Lord Stanley passed the greater part of his Parliamentary
life in the ranks of uncompromising Toryism.  He had begun his public career as an enthusiastic
champion of Parliamentary reform, and he was the figure-head of reform again at a much later
date, but on all other questions he remained a steadfast and a most eloquent advocate of genuine
Tory principles.  It may fittingly be mentioned here that the existence of the Radical party,
recognized as such and regarded as distinct from the ordinary Liberals, began with the debates
on the State Church in Ireland.  The passing of the Reform Bill divided the Whigs and Tories
into Liberals and Conservatives, and the discussions on the Irish Church divided those who
had once been Whigs into Liberals and Radicals.

[Sidenote: 1834--King William and the Irish State Church]

Meanwhile poor old King William was greatly concerned by the attacks which were made upon the
State Church in Ireland.  William the Fourth had a simple sort of piety of his own, and was
perhaps somewhat like the man whom Doctor Johnson commended because, whatever {219} follies
or offences he might have committed, he never passed a church without taking off his hat. 
The King knew little or nothing, we may well suppose, about the Irish Church and the way in
which it fulfilled, or had any chance of fulfilling, its sacred office.  But he took off his
hat to it as a Church, and, more than that, he shed tears and positively blubbered over its
hard fate in having to stand so many attacks from its enemies.  The King received, on one of
his birthdays, a delegation from the prelates of the Irish Church, and to them he poured out
his assurances that nothing should ever induce him to abandon that Church to its ungodly foes.
He reminded the prelates that he was growing an old man, that his departure from this world
must be near at hand, that he had nothing left now to live for but the rightful discharge of
his duties as a Protestant sovereign, and he bade them to believe that the tears which were
bedewing his countenance were the tears of heartfelt sympathy and sorrow.  The King nevertheless
did not get into any quarrel with his ministers on the subject of the Irish Church, and when
any documents bearing on the question were presented to him for signature he ended by affixing
his name and did not allow his tears to fall upon it and blot it out.  The Duke of Cumberland,
too, stood by the Irish Church to the best of his power.  A member of the House of Lords has
a privilege which is not accorded to a member of the House of Commons--he can enter on the
books of the House his written protest against the passing of any measure which he has not
been able to keep out of legislation.  The Duke of Cumberland entered his protest against some
of the resolutions taken with regard to the Irish State Church, and he declared that the sovereign
who affirmed such resolves must do so in defiance of the coronation oath.  That coronation
oath had not been brought into much prominence since the days of George the Third, when it
used to be relied upon as an impassable barrier to many a great measure of political justice
and mercy.  The Duke of Cumberland was not exactly the sort of man who could quicken it anew
into an animating influence, and King {220} William did what his ministers advised him to do,
and the world went on its way.  The King, however, liked his ministers none the more because
he did not see his way to quarrel with them when they advised him to make some concessions
to public feeling on the subject of the Irish tithes.  Thus far, indeed, the concessions were
not very great, and the important fact for this part of our history is only that the tithe
question brought up the far more momentous question which called into doubt the right to existence
of the Irish State Church itself.  The Government went no farther, for the time, than to offer
the appointment of a commission to inquire into the incidence and the levying of the tithes,
and endeavored to evade the question of appropriation, that is, the question as to the right
of Parliament to decide the manner in which the revenues of the Irish State Church ought to
be employed.  The tithe question itself was finally settled for England before it came to be
finally settled for Ireland.  But its settlement involved no such consequences to the English
State Church as it did to the State Church in Ireland.  For our present purposes it is enough
to record the fact that the earliest clear indications of the national policy, which in a later
generation disestablished the Irish State Church, were given by the first Reform Parliament.
Meanwhile the controversy raised as to the position of the Irish Establishment had had the
effect of disturbing Lord Grey, who did not like to be driven too rapidly along the path of
reform; of greatly angering the sovereign, who grumbled all the more because he could not openly
resist; and of dissatisfying men like Ward and Grote and Lord Durham, and even members of the
Cabinet like Lord John Russell, who could not regard mere slowness as a virtue when there was
an obvious wrong to be redressed.

{221}

CHAPTER LXXVI.

"ONLY A PAUPER."

[Sidenote: 1832--The poor-law system]

The spirit of reform was impelling Lord Grey's Government in other directions as well as in
those which led to the abolition of slavery in the Colonies, the improved conditions of the
factory works and the introduction of some better method for the collecting of tithes.  The
state of the poor laws all over the country had long been attracting the attention of thoughtful,
philanthropic, and at the same time practical men.  The administration of relief to the poor
was still conducted, up to Lord Grey's reforming Administration, on the same general principle
as that which had been embodied in the famous statute of Queen Elizabeth. The manner in which
that principle had been working during the intervening centuries was only another illustration
of Burke's maxim about systems founded on the heroic virtues to which we have lately made reference
in this volume.  The statute of Elizabeth was based on the principle that the State, or at
least the local authorities, ought to find relief for all the deserving poor.  The duty of
making provision for the deserving poor was left in the hands of those who managed the affairs
of the parishes, of whom the local clergy and magistrates were the principal personages.  The
means had to be furnished by the taxpayers, and the influential men of each parish were left
to decide as to the claims and the deserts of the applicants.  There was no regular body answerable
to public opinion, nor was there indeed any practical way in which the public of a district
could very effectively express itself. Nothing could be better arranged for the development
of that benevolent spirit which Sydney Smith describes as common to all humanity, and {222}
under the influence of which no sooner does A hear that B is in distress than he thinks C ought
at once to relieve him.  Men and women had only to go and say that they were in distress, and
some influential persons in the neighborhood were sure to find that the easiest way of doing
a benevolent act was to provide them with orders for parochial relief inside or outside the
workhouse.  There seemed to be a sort of easy-going impression prevailing everywhere that when
a man or a woman or a family had once been set down for relief from the rates the enrolment
ought to endure as a kind of property for life, and even as an inheritance for future generations.
The grant of parish relief under the old ways has been humorously likened to a State pension,
which, when it has once been given, is never supposed to be revoked during the lifetime of
the privileged pensioner.  But the presumption in the case of those relieved by the parish
had a still more abiding efficacy, for it was assumed that if a man got parish relief for himself
and his family the beneficent endowment was to pass onward from generation to generation. 
It is quite certain that whole races of paupers began to grow up in the country, one family
depending on the rates engendering another family, who were likewise to be dependent on the
rates.  Thus the vice of lazy and shiftless poverty was bequeathed from pauper sire to son.
In the case of the ordinary man or woman there was no incitement to industry and perseverance.
The idle pauper would be fed in any case, and no matter how hard he worked at the ordinary
labor within his reach he could only hope to be poorly fed.  Indeed, even the man who had an
honest inclination for honest labor was very much in the condition of the Irish cottier tenant,
described many years afterwards by John Stuart Mill as one who could neither benefit by his
industry nor suffer by his improvidence.

[Sidenote: 1832--Some defects in the poor-law system]

The system may be said without exaggeration to have put a positive premium on immorality among
the poorer class of women in a district, for an unmarried girl who had pauper offspring to
show was sure to receive the liberal benefit of parochial relief.  Pity was easily aroused
for {223} her youth, her fall, her deserted condition when her lover or betrayer had taken
himself off to some other district.  Any tale of deceived innocence was readily believed, and
so far as physical comforts go the unmarried mother was generally better off than the poor
toiling and virtuous wife of the hard-worked laborer who found her family growing and her husband's
wages without any increase.  Then, of course, there was all manner of jobbery, and a certain
kind of corruption among parish officials and the local tradesmen and employers of labor generally,
which grew to be an almost recognized incident of the local institutions. Labor could be got
on cheaper terms than the ordinary market rates if the employers could have men or women at
certain seasons of the year whom the parish was willing to maintain in idleness for the rest
of the time. Small contracts of all kinds were commonly made, in this sort of fashion, between
parish officials and local employers, and the whole system of relief seemed to become converted
into a corrupting influence, pervading the social life and showing its effects in idleness,
immorality, and an infectious disease of pauperism.  Owing to the many misinterpretations of
the laws of settlement it was often easy for a rich and populous district to fling much of
its floating pauperism on some poorer region, and thus it frequently happened that the more
poverty-stricken the parish the greater was the proportion of unsettled pauperism for which
it had to provide.  In many districts the poorer classes of ratepayers were scarcely a degree
better off than the actual paupers whom they were taxed to support.  Thus many a struggling
family became pauperized in the end because of the increase in the rates which the head of
the family could no longer pay, and the exhausted breadwinner, having done his best to keep
himself and his family independent, had at last to eat the bread of idleness from parish relief,
or to starve with his family by the road-side.

Things had come to such a pass indeed that many earnest and capable observers, like Lord Brougham,
Mr. Nassau Senior, and Miss Martineau, were beginning to advocate the doctrine that no remedy
could be found for {224} the system of legalized poor relief short of its total abolition.
It was gravely contended by many reformers, whose guiding spirit was pure love of humanity,
that the best course for the Government to take would be to abolish the poor-relief system
altogether, and leave the really deserving poor to the mercy of private benevolence.  By such
a measure, it was contended, private charity would be left to find out its own, and would,
before long, find out its own, and the charity thus given would carry with it no demoralizing
effect, but would be bestowed, as all true charity is bestowed, with the object of enabling
those whom it helped to help themselves after a while.  The owner of an estate, it was argued,
can easily find out where there is genuine distress among those who depend upon him, and can
sustain them through their time of need, so that when their hour of sickness or enforced idleness
is over they may be able to begin again with renewed energy, and work with the honest purpose
of making themselves independent.  It was urged that the operation of the legalized poor law
relief could only create new pauperism wherever its unwholesome touch was felt.  It would impress
on the well-inclined and the industrious the futility of honest and persevering endeavor, inasmuch
as idleness could get itself better cared for than laborious poverty. Idleness and immorality,
it was argued, were well housed and fed, while honest independence and virtue were left outside
in cold and hunger.

[Sidenote: 1832-33--A commission on poor-law relief]

The study of political economy was even already beginning to be a part of the education of
most men who took any guiding place or even any observant interest in the national life.  Writers
who dealt with such subjects were beginning to find readers among the general public.  Some
of the members of Lord Grey's own Administration had taken a close interest in such questions.
The whole subject of poor relief and its distribution was one of the earliest which came under
the consideration of the Liberal Government after the passing of the Reform Bill.  It was clear
that something would soon have to be done, and, as the Whig ministers had a good deal of other
work on their {225} hands, the natural course, at such a time, was to appoint a commission
which should inquire into the whole system of poor-law relief, and report to the Government
as to the best means for its reorganization.  Such a commission was appointed and set at once
to its work.  Among the commissioners and the assistant-commissioners nominated for the purpose
were some men whose names are well remembered in our own days.  One of those was Mr. Nassau
Senior, a man of great ability and wide practical information, who distinguished himself in
many other fields of literary work, as well as that which belonged to what may be called the
literature of pure economics.  Another was Mr. Edwin (afterwards Sir Edwin) Chadwick, who was
a living and an active presence, until a very short time ago, among those who devoted themselves
to the study and the propagation of what are called social science principles, and whose work
was highly valued by so well qualified a critic as John Stuart Mill.  The commission made careful
inquiry into the operation of the poor-law relief system, and presented a report which marked
an epoch in our social history, and might well have a deep interest even for the casual student
of to-day.  The result of the inquiries made was such as to satisfy the commissioners that
the administration of the poor law had increased the evils of pauperism, wherever it found
them already in existence, and had created and fostered evils of the same kind, even in regions
which had not known them before they were touched by its contagion.  The report of the commissioners
pronounced that the existing system of poor law was "destructive to the industry and honesty
and forethought of the laborers, to the wealth and morality of the employers of labor and the
owners of property, and to the mutual good-will and happiness of all."  This may be thought
a very sweeping condemnation, but the more closely the evidence is studied the more clearly
it will be seen that where the poor-relief system had any effect worth taking into calculation
this was the sort of effect it produced.  The real objects of the legalized poor-law relief
system were well and even liberally described in the report of the {226} commissioners.  The
object of poor relief, as the commissioners defined it, should be to make provision for that
proportion, to be found in almost every community, which is plunged into such a condition of
distress that it never can hope to be self-supporting again, and for that more fluctuating
proportion made up of those who at the time are unable to support themselves, but whom some
temporary relief may enable to return to their former condition of independence.  In each class
of cases it ought to be made equally clear, before public relief were called in, that those
in distress, continuous or temporary, had no near relatives in a condition to afford them reasonable
assistance without undue sacrifice. Of course it was understood that these conditions included
the men and women who, owing to some temporary lack of employment, were actually unable to
find the means of living by their own honest labor.  The ideas of the commissioners were not
pedantically economical in their range, nor did they insist that public relief must be given
only as the reward of personal integrity when visited by undeserved misfortune.  It was freely
admitted that even where men and women had allowed themselves, by idleness or carelessness,
to sink into actual poverty, it was better to give them temporary relief at the public expense
than allow them to take up with the ways of crime, or leave them to pay the penalty of their
wrongdoings by death from starvation.  But it was strictly laid down that a healthy system
of public relief was to help men and women for a time, in order that they might be able to
help themselves once again, as soon as possible, and to make provision for those who had done
their work and could do no more, and who had no near relatives in a condition to keep them
from starvation.  The report of the commissioners pointed out that the existing system "collects
and chains down the laborers in masses, without any reference to the demand for their labor;
that, while it increases their numbers, it impairs the means by which the fund for their subsistence
is to be reproduced, and impairs the motives for using those means which it suffers to exist;
and that every year and every day these evils are becoming {227} more overwhelming in magnitude
and less susceptible of cure."

[Sidenote: 1833--Plans to improve the relief system]

The passages which we have quoted are taken from the recommendations of Mr. Chadwick.  He goes
on to say that, "of those evils, that which consists merely in the amount of the rates--an
evil great when considered by itself, but trifling when compared with the moral effects which
I am deploring--might be much diminished by the combination of workhouses, and by substituting
a rigid administration and contract management for the existing scenes of neglect, extravagance,
jobbery, and fraud."  Mr. Chadwick points out that "if no relief were allowed to be given to
the able-bodied or to their families, except in return for adequate labor or in a well-regulated
workhouse, the worst of the existing sources of evil--the allowance system--would immediately
disappear; a broad line would be drawn between the independent laborers and the paupers; the
numbers of paupers would be immediately diminished, in consequence of the reluctance to accept
relief on such terms, and would be still further diminished in consequence of the increased
fund for the payment of wages occasioned by the diminution of rates; and would ultimately,
instead of forming a constantly increasing proportion of our whole population, become a small,
well-defined part of it, capable of being provided for at an expense less than one-half of
the present poor rates."  And finally it was urged that "it is essential to every one of these
improvements that the administration of the poor laws should be intrusted, as to their general
superintendence, to one central authority with extensive powers; and, as to their details,
to paid officers, acting under the consciousness of constant superintendence and strict responsibility."
On these reports and recommendations the new measure for the reorganization of the poor-law
system was founded.  The main objects of the measure were to divide these countries, for poor-relief
purposes, into areas of regular and, in a certain sense, of equal proportions, so that the
whole burden of poverty should not be cast for relief on one particular district, while a neighboring
and much richer {228} district was able to escape from its fair measure of liability; to have
the relief administered not by local justices, or parish clergymen, but by representative bodies
duly elected and responsible to public opinion; and by the creation of one great central board
charged with the duty of seeing to the proper administration of the whole system.  Thus, it
will be observed that the main principle of the Reform Bill, the principle of representation,
had been already accepted by statesmanship as the central idea of a department of State which
had nothing to do with the struggles of political parties.

[Sidenote: 1834--Passage of the Poor-law Bill]

The measure when it came before Parliament met, of course, with strong opposition, first in
the House of Commons and then in the House of Lords. Much of the opposition came, no doubt,
from men of old-fashioned ways, who dreaded and hated any changes in any institutions to which
they had been accustomed, and who held that even pauperism itself acquired a certain sanctity
from the fact that it had been fostered and encouraged by the wisdom of so many succeeding
generations.  Some of the opposition, however, was inspired by feelings of a more purely sentimental,
and therefore perhaps of a more respectable order.  It was urged that the new system, if carried
into law, would bear hardly on the deserving as well as the undeserving people; that the workhouse
test would separate the husband from wife, and the father from the children; and, above all,
that certain clauses of the new measure would leave the once innocent girl who had been led
astray by some vile tempter to bear the whole legal responsibility as well as the public shame
of her sin.  It is not necessary for us now to go over at any length the long arguments which
were brought up on both sides of the controversy.  Many capable and high-minded observers were
carried away by what may be called the sentimental side of the question, and forgot the enormous
extent of the almost national corruption which the measure was striving to remove, in their
repugnance to some of the evils which it did not indeed create, but which it failed to abolish.
One weakness common to nearly all the arguments employed against the {229} measure came from
the facility there was for putting out of sight altogether, during such a process of reasoning,
the fact that the daily and hourly effect of the existing system was to force the deserving
and hard-working poor to sink into that very pauperism which it was the object of all law-makers
to diminish, or to abolish altogether.  The wit of man could not devise any system of poor
relief which should never go wrong in its application, should never bear harshly on men and
women who deserved, and were striving for, an honest and independent subsistence.

The Bill, however, was passed in the House of Commons by a large majority.  It was carried
after a hard fight through the House of Lords, and received the royal assent in August, 1834.
It should be said that the Duke of Wellington, although usually strong and resolute as a party
man, had good sense and fair spirit enough to make him a warm supporter of the measure, despite
the vehement protestations of many of his own habitual supporters.  Since that time it seems
to be admitted by common consent that the measure has accomplished all the beneficial results
which its promoters anticipated from it, and has, in many of its provisions, worked even better
than some of its supporters had expected. Of course, our poor-law system has since that time
been always undergoing modifications of one kind or another, and public criticism is continually
pointing to the necessity for further improvement.  We hear every now and then of cases in
which, owing to local maladministration, some deserving men and women, honestly struggling
to keep their heads above pauperism, are left to perish of hunger or cold.  We read well-authenticated,
only too well-authenticated, instances of actual starvation taking place in some wealthy district
of a great city.  We hear of parochial funds squandered and muddled away; of the ratepayers'
money wasted in extravagance, and worse than extravagance; of miserable courts and alleys where
the deserving and undeserving poor are alike neglected and uncared for.  But it would be utterly
impossible that some such defects as these should not be found in the management of any system
worked by {230} human mechanism for such a purpose as the relief of a great nation's poverty.
The predominant fact is that we have a system which is based on the representative principle,
which is open to the inspection and the criticism of the whole country, and which frankly declares
itself the enemy of professional beggary and the helper of the poverty which is honestly striving
to help itself.  Much remains yet to be done for the improvement of our national system of
poor relief, but it has, at least, to be said that the reformed Parliament did actually establish
a system founded on just principles and responsible to public judgment.

[Sidenote: 1833--The East India Company's charter]

Another of the great reforms which was accomplished in this age of reform found its occasion
when the time came for the renewal of the East India Company's charter.  The Government and
the Houses of Parliament had to deal with the future administration of one of the greatest
empires the world had ever seen, brought together by events and forces the like of which had
not been at work in any previous chapter of the world's history.  We have already traced, in
this book, the growth of the East India Company's possessions, a growth brought about by a
combination of the qualities which belonged to the Alexanders and the Caesars, and of the qualities
also which go to the expansion of peaceful commerce and the opening up of markets for purely
industrial enterprise.  The charter of the Company had been renewed by legislation at long
intervals, and the first reformed Parliament now found itself compelled to settle the conditions
under which the charter should be renewed for another period of twenty years.  Mr. Molesworth
justly remarks that "it was a fortunate circumstance that the Reform Bill had passed, and a
Reform Parliament been elected, before the question of the renewal of the Company's charter
was decided; for otherwise the directors of this great Company and other persons interested
in the maintenance of the monopolies and abuses connected with it would in all probability
have returned to Parliament, by means of rotten boroughs, a party of adherents sufficiently
large to have effectually prevented the Government and the House of Commons from dealing with
{231} this great question in the manner in which the interests of England and India alike demanded
that it should be dealt with."

Up to the time at which we have now arrived the East India Company had an almost absolute monopoly
of the whole Chinese trade, as well as the Indian trade, and a control over the administration
of India such as might well have gratified the ambition of a despotic monarch.  The last renewal
of the Company's charter had been in 1813, and it was to run for twenty years, so that Lord
Grey's Government found themselves charged with the task of making arrangements for its continuance,
or its modifications, or its abolition.  Some distinction had already been effected between
the powers of the Company as the ruler of a vast Empire under the suzerainty of England, and
its powers as a huge commercial corporation, or what we should now call a syndicate, but the
company still retained its monopoly of the India and China trade.  In the mean time, however,
the principles of political economy had been asserting a growing influence over the public
intelligence, and the question was coming to be asked, more and more earnestly, why a private
company should be allowed the exclusive right of conducting the trade between England and India
and China.  An agitation against the monopoly began, as was but natural, among the great manufacturing
and commercial towns in the North of England.  Miss Martineau, in her "History of the Thirty
Years' Peace," ascribes the beginning of this movement to a once well-known merchant and philanthropist
of Liverpool, the late Mr. William Rathbone, whom some of us can still remember having known
in our earlier years.  Miss Martineau had probably good reasons for making such a statement,
and, at all events, nothing is more likely than that such a movement began in Liverpool, and
began with such a man.  In London the directors and supporters of the East India Company were
too powerful to give much chance to a hostile movement begun in the metropolis, and it needed
the energy, the commercial independence, and the advanced opinions of the northern cities to
give it an effective start.

{232}

When the time came for the renewal of the Company's charter, the Government had made up their
mind that the renewal should be conditional on the abolition of the commercial monopoly, and
that the trade between the dominions of King William and the Eastern populations should be
thrown open to all the King's subjects.  The measure passed through both Houses of Parliament
with but little opposition.  Mr. Molesworth is perfectly right in his remarks as to the different
sort of reception which would have been given to such a measure if the charter had come up
for renewal before the Act of Reform had abolished the nomination boroughs and the various
other sham constituencies.  But it is a striking proof of the hold which the representative
principle and the doctrines of free-trade were already beginning to have on public opinion
that the monopoly of the East India Company should not have been able to make a harder fight
for its existence.  The wonder which a modern reader will be likely to feel as he studies the
subject now is, not that the monopoly should have been abolished with so little trouble, but
that rational men should have admitted so long the possibility of any justification for its
existence.

The renewal of the Charter of the Bank of England gave an opportunity, during the same session,
for an alteration in the conditions under which the Bank maintains its legalized position and
its relations with the State, and for a further reorganization of those conditions, which was
in itself a distinct advance in the commercial arrangements of the Empire. Other modifications
have taken place from time to time since those days, and it is enough to say here that the
alterations made by the first reformed Parliament, at the impulse of Lord Grey and his colleagues,
were in keeping with the movement of the commercial spirit and went along the path illumined
by the growing light of a sound political economy.

{233}

CHAPTER LXXVII.

PEEL'S FORLORN HOPE.

[Sidenote: 1834--Retirement of Lord Grey]

Lord Grey was growing tired of the work of that Administration.  It had been incessant work,
and its great successes of later years had been checkered by some disappointments, which, although
not deep-reaching, were irritating and disturbing.  Some of his most capable colleagues had
broken away from him, and he probably began to feel that the reformers all over the country
expected more of him than he saw his way to accomplish.  In 1834 he asked to be relieved from
the duties of his office, and the King consented, probably with greater good-will than he had
felt in acceding to some of Lord Grey's previous requests, and accordingly Lord Grey ceased
to be Prime Minister.  With his resignation of office Lord Grey passes out of this history
and takes an abiding place in the Parliamentary history of his country.  He can hardly be called
a great statesman, for he had been mainly instrumental in bringing to success and putting into
legislative form the ideas of greater men, but his must be regarded as a distinguished and
noble figure among England's Parliamentary leaders.  He was especially suited for the work
which it was his proud fortune to accomplish at the zenith of his power, for no one could be
better fitted than he for the task of discountenancing the wild alarms which were felt by so
many belonging to what were called the privileged classes at the thought of any measures of
reform which might disturb the existing order of things, and lead to red ruin and the breaking-up
of laws.  On Lord Grey's retirement he was succeeded as Prime Minister by Lord Melbourne, who
had previously been Home Secretary.  Lord Melbourne might have been thought just the sort of
{234} person with whom King William could easily get on, because such a Prime Minister was
not likely to vex his sovereign's unwilling ear by too many demands for rapid and far-reaching
reform.  Melbourne was a thoroughly easy, not to say lazy, man.  He was certainly not wanting
in intellect, he had some culture, he was a great reader of books and a great lover of books,
and he was often only too glad to escape into literary talk and literary gossip from discussions
on political questions and measures to be introduced into Parliament.  He was fond of society,
made himself generally agreeable to women, and was usually well acquainted with the passing
scandals of high social life.

[Sidenote: 1834--Peel to be Premier]

One might, indeed, have thought that such a man was just the minister in whom King William
would find a congenial companion and adviser.  But the truth was that the King had grown tired
of the Whig statesmen, and had long been looking out for an opportunity to get rid of them
on easy terms.  Perhaps he did not quite like the idea of telling a man of Lord Grey's stately
demeanor that he wished to dispense with his services and saw in Lord Melbourne a minister
who could be approached on any subject without much sensation of awe.  However that may be,
the King soon found what seemed to him a satisfactory opportunity for ridding himself of the
presence of his Whig advisers.  Lord Althorp was suddenly raised to the House of Lords by the
death of his father.  Earl Spencer, and of course some rearrangement of the Ministry became
necessary, as it would not be possible that the Chancellor of the Exchequer should have a ministerial
place anywhere but in the House which has the levying of the taxes and the spending of the
money.  When Lord Melbourne came to advise with his sovereign on the subject the King informed
him, in the most direct and off-hand manner, that he contemplated a much more complete rearrangement
than Lord Melbourne had suggested, and, in fact, that he had made up his mind to get rid of
the present Government altogether.  Lord Melbourne, of course, bowed to the will of his master,
and, indeed, was not the sort of man to take a {235} dismissal from office greatly to heart,
believing it, no doubt, quite likely that some restoration to office might await him, and possibly
feeling that life had some enjoyments left for him even though he were never again to be Prime
Minister.

The King determined to send for Sir Robert Peel and intrust him with the task of forming an
Administration.  William had, as might naturally be expected of him, consulted in the first
instance with the Duke of Wellington.  Wellington, with the practical good sense which was
a part of his character, had told the sovereign that at such a time it was futile to think
of calling upon any one to become Prime Minister who had not a seat in the House of Commons.
As the King was resolved to have a new Administration, Peel was obviously the man to be intrusted
with the task of forming it, and therefore the King sent for him at once.  But Peel was not
in England; he had gone with his wife to Italy, and, as we know from his own published letters,
he had not entered into any communication, even with the Duke of Wellington, as to the probable
movements of political affairs in his absence, not supposing for a moment that any emergency
could arise at home which might make it necessary for him to cut short his holiday and return
to the working ground of Westminster.  A special messenger had to be sent off at once to convey
to Peel the wishes of his sovereign, and one has to stop and think over things a little before
he can quite realize what it meant in those days, which seem so near our own, to send a special
message from London to the heart of Italy.  Peel was at Rome, and had just returned with his
wife one night from a great ball given by a celebrated Italian Princess, when he received the
letter which urged him to come back and become for the first time Prime Minister of England.
Peel's mind was at once made up.  That sense of duty which always guided his movements dictated
his reply.  There was for him no question of personal pride or ambition to be gratified, or
of any graceful effort to affect the ways of one who modestly shrinks from a task beyond his
power.  He saw that his sovereign needed {236} his immediate services, and that was enough
for him.  He and his wife were just on the eve of what had promised to be a delightful visit
to Naples, but the visit to Naples was put off without a second thought to the indefinite future,
and the statesman and his wife set out at once on their journey to London.  The preparations
for such a journey at that time were such as might give pause even to an experienced explorer
in our own easy-going and luxurious age.  Sir Robert Peel, of course, had to travel by private
carriage.  He had to traverse more than one State in order to reach the sea at Calais.  The
roads were dangerous in many places, and Peel had to take some well-armed servants with him.
He had to go well provided with the most elaborate official passports.  He had even to obtain
a special passport for himself, lest, in the event of his wife finding the constant travel
too much for her, she might have to take rest at some town on the way, and Peel, if he attempted
to continue his journey, might be stopped somewhere until he had satisfactorily accounted for
the disappearance of the lady who was described in the original passports as his travelling
companion and his wife.  The journey was interrupted by unforeseen obstacles in several places.
At one spot the rising of a river relentlessly barricaded the progress of the travellers for
many hours.  At another point a bridge was broken down.  In France, Peel and his wife were
brought to a stand at the city of Lyons because that city happened just then to be in a state
of siege, and the travellers had to furnish satisfactory evidence that they were not emissaries
of some revolutionary propaganda.  It took twelve days to cover the distance from Rome to Dover,
and, except for such delays as have just been mentioned, our travellers had gone on night and
day without stopping.  Even when they arrived at Dover, Peel took no thought about rest, but
journeyed on all night until he reached London.

[Sidenote: 1834--The difficulties that beset Peel]

Peel himself tells us in his memoirs that the long travel had at least the advantage of giving
him time enough to think out his course of action and the best way of serving his sovereign
and his country.  The journey, he says, {237} allowed him to do this coolly and without interruption.
He certainly had time enough for the purpose, but it must have needed all Peel's strength of
character to enable him to give his mind up to such considerations during a course so toilsome,
so rugged, so dangerous, and often so rudely interrupted.  He arrived in London at an early
hour on the morning of December 9, 1834, and he set off at once to present himself to the King,
by whom, it need hardly be said, he was very cordially welcomed.  The welcome became all the
more warm because he was willing to accept the important task which the King desired to intrust
to him, and would enter without delay on the work of endeavoring to form a Ministry.  Now,
in order to do justice to Peel's patriotic purpose in undertaking this difficult task, we have
to bear in mind that he did not personally approve of the King's action in breaking up the
Melbourne Administration, or even of the manner in which it had been broken up.  He knew well
enough that the King had grown tired of the Whig Ministry, but he did not think the King's
personal feelings were a complete justification for William's dismissal of a set of men whom
he had consented to place in power.  Peel did not regard the mere necessity for a rearrangement
consequent on Lord Althorp's removal to the House of Lords as anything like a fitting excuse
for the break-up of the whole Government.  More than that, Peel had no confidence in the chances
of a new Conservative Administration just then.  It was not encouraging to a statesman about
to form his first Cabinet to have to believe, as Peel did, that such a Government would be
left very much at the mercy of the Opposition, and in more than one important or even impending
question might at any time be outvoted in the House of Commons.  None the less, however, was
Peel resolved to stand by his sovereign, who appeared to be in a difficulty. The same sense
of public duty, according to his conception of public duty, which guided him at every great
crisis of his political career decided his action in this instance.  He set himself to the
work of forming an Administration in which he proposed to take under his own charge the functions
of {238} Prime Minister and the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer.  He knew that he could
count on the support of the Duke of Wellington, and to Wellington he offered the post of Secretary
for Foreign Affairs, which was at once accepted. Then he wrote to Sir James Graham and to Lord
Stanley.  Both refused. Sir James Graham, although he declined to accept office, promised Peel
all the support he could give consistently with his own judgment and his own political views.
Lord Stanley wrote a letter to Peel which has even still both historical and personal interest.
Its historical interest consists in the clear exposition it contains of the various questions
which then divided the two great parties in the State.  Its personal interest is found in the
fact that it shows Lord Stanley as the convinced reformer, who sees no possibility of his joining
an Administration about to be created by a statesman whose whole career has been antagonistic
to political reform.  Those of us who remember the brilliant orator Lord Derby, by whom the
office of Prime Minister was three times held, find it hard to think of him as anything but
a steady-going Conservative at heart, and may be excused a shock of surprise when they are
bidden to remember that in 1834 the same man, then Lord Stanley, declared that he could not
serve under Peel because Peel was not reformer enough all round to secure his co-operation.
Lord Stanley pointed out, in his letter, that between Peel and himself there had been a complete
difference of opinion on almost every great public question except that which concerned the
State Church, and he reminded Peel that so lately as on the occasion of Lord Grey's retirement
from office the Duke of Wellington had seized the opportunity of publicly condemning the whole
policy of the Whig Administration.  Under these circumstances Lord Stanley declared that, in
his opinion, it would be injurious to his own character and injurious to the new Government
as well if he were to accept the offer of a place in such an Administration.  He had left Lord
Grey's Government because he differed with Lord Grey on one question alone, which then had
to be dealt with, and he could not join a Government of which {239} Peel and Wellington were
to be the leaders, from whom he had differed on almost every great political question that
had engaged the attention of the country during his time.

[Sidenote: 1834--Peel forms his Ministry]

Peel had nothing for it but to go on with his task and form the best Administration he could.
Lord Lyndhurst was once again to be Lord Chancellor, and in such a man Peel certainly found
a colleague who had no superior either as a lawyer or a debater in the House of Lords. Some
of us who can still remember having heard Lord Lyndhurst deliver long and powerful speeches
in the House of Lords, compelling the attention and the admiration of every listener when the
orator himself had long left his eightieth year behind him, will feel sure that Sir Robert
Peel's first Administration was adequately represented in the hereditary chamber.  It is not
necessary to introduce here a full list of the new Ministry, but there are three names which
call for special mention.  These are the names of three young men who then entered ministerial
office for the first time, and with whom the world afterwards became well acquainted, each
according to his different way. One was William Ewart Gladstone, who became Junior Lord of
the Treasury, and whom the world has long since recognized as the greatest statesman and the
greatest master of the House of Commons known to the reign of Queen Victoria.  The second was
Sidney Herbert, who was for many years one of the most ready, accomplished, and brilliant debaters
in that House, and whose premature death cut short a career that had seemed to be steadily
rising from day to day.  The third was a man whose political life has long since been forgotten,
but whose name is well remembered because of his success in quite a different field--Winthrop
Mackworth Praed, the charming author of delightful verses, the founder of that English school
of minstrelsy which sings for the drawing-room and the club-room, the feasts and the fashions,
the joys and the well-ordered troubles of the West-End.  Sidney Herbert and Praed were made
joint Secretaries to the Board of Control, the department established by Pitt for directing
the Government of India.

{240}

The new Prime Minister believed that it would be in every way more suitable to the convenience
of the country that he and his colleagues should submit their political claims and purposes
to the judgment of the constituencies by means of a general election.  A dissolution accordingly
took place, and Peel issued an address to the electors of Tamworth, which will always be regarded
as an important political document.  Although Peel had been an opponent of the principles embodied
in the Reform Bill, no reformer in the country understood better than he did the impossibility,
at such a time, of carrying on the work of the Government without a thorough understanding
between the Ministry and the Parliament, between the Parliament and the public out-of-doors.
No one knew better than Peel that the time had gone by, never to return, when an English minister
could rule as an English minister even so lately as in the days of Pitt had done, merely by
the approval and the support of a monarch without the approval and support of a majority of
the electors.  When, therefore, Peel prepared his address to his Tamworth constituents he knew
perfectly well that his words were meant, not merely for the friendly ears of the little constituency,
but for the consideration of the whole country.  The same feeling actuated the great statesman
during the entire course of his subsequent career, and the constituency of Tamworth had therefore
the advantage of being favored from time to time with election addresses which form chapters
of the highest interest and importance in the historical literature of the country.  The address
which he issued to his constituents before the general election in December, 1834, proclaimed,
in fact, the opening of a new political era in England.

[Sidenote: 1834-34--Peel's Tamworth address]

Peel made frank announcement that, so far as he and his friends were concerned, the controversy
about Parliamentary reform had come to an end.  By him and by them the decision of Parliament,
which sanctioned the introduction of the Reform Bill of 1832, was accepted as a final settlement
of the question.  Peel declared that he regarded it as "a settlement which no friend to the
peace {241} of the country would attempt to disturb, either by direct or by insidious means."
Of course it was not to be understood that Peel had any intention of describing the Reform
Act of 1832 as the last word of the Reformers' creed, and the close of all possible controversy
with regard to the construction of the whole Parliamentary system.  Peel no more meant to convey
any idea of this kind than did Lord John Russell, when he used the word finality in connection
with the Reform Act, mean to convey the idea that, according to his conviction, Parliament
was never again to be invited to extend the electoral franchise or to modify the conditions
under which the votes of the electors were to be given.  The announcement which Peel made to
the electors of Tamworth, and to the world in general, was that he and his friends recognized
the establishment of the representative principle in English political life, accepted the new
order of things as a result of a lawful decree, and separated themselves altogether from the
antiquated Toryism which enshrined the old ideas of government as a religious faith, and revered
the memory of the nomination boroughs, as the Jacobites revered the memory of the Stuarts.
With the issue of Peel's Tamworth address in the December of 1834, the antique Tory, the Tory
who made Toryism of the ante-reform days a creed and a cult, may be said to disappear altogether
from the ranks of practical English politicians.  The Tory of the old school appears, no doubt,
here and there through all Parliamentary days down to our own time.  We saw him in both Houses
of Parliament as a heroic, unteachable opponent of Peel himself, of Bright and Cobden, of Gladstone,
and sometimes even of Lord Derby and of Lord Salisbury, but he was merely a living protest
against the succession of new ideas, and was no longer to be counted as a practical politician.

Sir Robert Peel soon saw that he had not gained much by his appeal to the constituencies. 
The results of the general election showed that the Conservatives had made a considerable addition
to their numbers in the House of Commons, but showed also that they were still in a disheartening
minority.  The return of the first Reform {242} Parliament had, indeed, exhibited them for
the time as completely down in the dust, for there was a majority of more than three hundred
against them, and now the Liberal majority was hardly more than one hundred.  A very hopeful
Conservative, or a Conservative who had a profound faith in the principles of antique Toryism,
might fill himself with the fond belief that this increase in the Conservative vote foretold
a gradual return to the good old days.  But Peel was too practical a statesman to be touched
for a moment by any such illusion. He had fully expected some increase in the Tory vote.  He
knew, as well as anybody could know, that there had been some disappointment among the more
advanced and impatient reformers all over the country with the achievements of the first reformed
Parliament, and, indeed, with the Act of Reform itself.  After victory in a long-contested
political battle there comes, almost as a matter of course, a season of relaxed effort among
the ranks of the victors, for which allowance would have to be made in the mind of such a statesman
as Peel, and, in this instance, allowance also had to be made for a falling off in the enthusiasm
of those who had helped to carry the Reform movement to success, and found themselves in the
end left out of all its direct advantages.

[Sidenote: 1835--The Office of Speaker]

Peel saw at once that his Government must be absolutely at the mercy of the Opposition when
any question arose on which it suited the purposes of the Opposition leaders to rally their
whole forces around them and take a party division.  So far as the ordinary business of the
session was concerned, the Ministry might get on well enough, for there must have been a considerable
amount of routine work which would not provoke the Opposition to a trial of strength; but if
chance or hostile strategy should bring about at any moment a controversy which called for
a strictly party division, then the Government must go down. Nothing can be more trying to
a proud-spirited statesman in office than the knowledge that he can only maintain his Government,
from day to day, because, for one reason or another, it does not suit the convenience of the
Opposition to press some vote which must leave him and his colleagues {243} in a distinct minority.
Peel had not long to wait before he found substantial evidence to justify his most gloomy forebodings.

The new Parliament met on February 19, 1835.  The first trial of strength was on the election
of a new Speaker.  The former occupant of the office having been put forward for re-election,
the Government were beaten by a majority of ten.  Now this was a very damaging event for the
ministers, and also an event somewhat unusual in the House of Commons.  There is generally
a sort of understanding, more or less distinctly expressed, that the candidate put forward
by the Government for the office of Speaker is to be a man on whom both sides of the House
can agree.  It is obviously undesirable that there should be a party struggle over the appointment
of the official who is assumed to hold an absolutely impartial position and is not supposed
to be the mere favorite of either side of the House.  In later years there has often been a
distinct arrangement, or, at all events, a clear understanding, between the Government and
the Opposition on this subject, and a candidate is not put forward unless there is good reason
to assume that he will be acceptable to the two great political parties.  In this instance
no such understanding existed, or had been sought for.  The Opposition set up a candidate of
their own, and the nominee of the Government was defeated.  There was, however, one condition
in this defeat which, although it did not take away from the ominous character of the event,
might, to a certain extent, have relieved Peel from the necessity of regarding it as an absolute
party defeat.  The majority had been obtained for the Opposition by the support of the Irish
members who followed the leadership of Daniel O'Connell, and thus Sir Robert Peel saw himself
outvoted by a combination of two parties, one of them regarded with peculiar disfavor by the
majority of the English public on both sides of the political field.  It was something for
the followers of the Government to be able to say that their Liberal opponents had only been
able to score a success by the help of the unpopular Irish vote, and it became, in fact, a
new accusation against the {244} Liberals that they had traded on the favor of O'Connell and
his Irish followers.  From about this time the Irish vote has always played an important part
in all the struggles of parties in the House of Commons; and it will be observed that the English
Party, whether Liberal or Tory, against which that vote is directed is always ready with epithets
of scorn and anger for the English Party for whom that vote has been given.

[Sidenote: 1835--Peel and the Opposition]

Several other humiliations awaited Peel as the session went on. Sometimes he was saved from
defeat on a question of finance by the help of the more advanced Liberals, who came to his
assistance when certain of his own Tory followers were prepared to desert him because his views
on some question of taxation were much too new-fashioned for their own old-fashioned notions.
Every one who has paid any attention to Parliamentary history can understand how distressing
is the position of a minister who has no absolute majority at his command, and how more distressing
still is the position of a minister who can only look to chance disruptions and combinations
of parties for any possible majority.  Peel bore himself throughout all the trials of that
most trying time with indomitable courage and with unfailing skill.  Never during his whole
career did he prove himself more brilliant and more full of resource than as the leader of
what might be called an utterly hopeless struggle.  The highest tribute has been paid to his
never-failing tact and temper during that trying ordeal by his principal opponent in the House
of Commons, Lord John Russell.  Russell was now the leader of the Liberal Opposition in the
House of Commons, and the struggle of parties was once again illustrated by a sort of continuous
Parliamentary duel between two rival leaders.  The same phenomenon had been seen, from time
to time, in the days of Queen Anne and in the days of the Georges; and it was seen again, at
intervals, during some of the most vivid and fascinating passages of Parliamentary history
in the reign of Queen Victoria.

The crisis, however, came soon to this first Ministry of Sir Robert Peel.  Peel had announced,
in a reasonable and {245} manful spirit, considering how the task of holding together a Ministry
had been imposed on him and the temptation which it afforded for the attacks of irresponsible
enemies, that he would not resign office on any side issue or question of purely factitious
importance, and that he would hold his place unless defeated by a vote of want of confidence
or a vote of censure.  He challenged the leader of the Opposition to test the feeling of the
House by a division on a question of that nature. Lord John Russell refused to take any such
course, declaring that he believed it his duty to wait and see what might be the nature of
the measures of reform which the Government had promised to introduce before inviting the House
to say whether the Government deserved or did not deserve its confidence.  Some of the measures
announced by the Government had to do with the reform of the ecclesiastical courts and the
maintenance of Church discipline, and Sir Robert Peel had himself given notice of a measure
to deal with the Irish tithe system, the principal object of which was understood to be the
transfer of the liability of the payment of tithes from the shoulders of the tenant to the
shoulders of the landlord.  It was not unreasonable that the Opposition should proclaim it
their policy to wait and see what the Tory ministers really proposed to do before assailing
them with a direct and general vote of want of confidence.  Even, however, if the Opposition
had been inclined to linger before inviting a real trial of strength, there was a feeling growing
up all over the country which seemed impatient of mere episodical encounters leading to nothing
in particular.  The leaders of the Opposition had a very distinct policy in their minds, and
on March 30, 1835, it found its formal expression.  Now here, it will be seen, {246} was the
battle-ground distinctly marked out on which the two political parties must come, sooner or
later, to a decisive struggle.  About the collection of tithes, about the imposition of tithes,
about the class of the community on whom the direct responsibility for the payment of tithes
ought to fall, there might possibly be a basis of agreement found between Tories and Whigs.
But when there arose a question as to the appropriation of the Church revenues, there the old
doctrines and the new, the old Tories and the new Reformers, came into irreconcilable antagonism.
The creed of the Tories was that the revenues of the Church belonged to the Church itself,
and that if the Church had a surplus of funds here or there for any one particular purpose
that surplus could be applied by it to some of its other purposes, but that no legislature
had any right to say to the Church, "You have more money here than is needed for your own rights,
and we have a right to take part of it away from you and apply it for the uses of the general
public."  The Government, therefore, accepted Lord John Russell's resolution as a distinct
challenge to a trial of strength on an essential question of policy.

[Sidenote: 1835--William Ewart Gladstone]

The debate which followed lasted through four days, and all the members of the House on both
sides took part in it.  The reports of that momentous debate may be read with the deepest interest
even at this day, when some of the prophecies intended as terrible warnings by some of the
Conservative orators have long since been verified as facts, and are calmly accepted by all
parties as the inevitable results of rational legislation.  Sir Robert Peel, Lord Stanley,
Sir James Graham, and most others who spoke on the Ministerial side spoke with one voice, in
warning the House of Commons that if it claimed a right to touch any of the revenues of the
Irish State Church in order to appropriate them for the general education of the Irish people,
the result must be that the time would come when the Irish Church itself would no longer be
held sacred against the desecrating hand of the modern reformer, would be treated as no longer
necessary to the welfare of the Irish people, and would be severed from the State and left
upon a level {247} with the Roman Catholic Church and the various dissenting denominations.

One appeal which may be said to run through the whole of the speeches on the side of the Government
is familiar to the readers and the audiences of all political debates, whore any manner of
Reform is under discussion.  "You are asked"--so runs the argument--"to adopt this sort of
policy in order to satisfy the demands of a certain class of the population; but how do you
know, what guarantee can you give us, that when we have granted these demands they will be
content and will not immediately begin to ask for more?  We granted Catholic Emancipation in
order to satisfy Ireland, and now is Ireland satisfied?  It was only the other day we granted
Catholic Emancipation, and now already Ireland declares, through her representatives, that
she ought to have part of the revenues of the Irish State Church taken away from that Church
and applied to the common uses of the Irish people.  If she gets even that, will Ireland be
contented?  Will she not go on to demand repeal of the Union?"  We turn with peculiar interest
to the speech of a young Tory member which was listened to with great attention during the
debate, and was believed to contain unmistakable promise of an important political career.
So indeed it did, although the promise that career actually realized was not altogether of
the kind which most of its audience were led to anticipate.  It was the speech of Mr. William
Ewart Gladstone.  "The present motion," said Mr. Gladstone, "opens a boundless road--it will
lead to measure after measure, to expedient after expedient, till we come to the recognition
of the Roman Catholic religion as the national one.  In principle, we propose to give up the
Protestant Establishment.  If so, why not abandon the political government of Ireland and concede
the repeal of the legislative union." "There is no principle," he went on to say, "on which
the Protestant Church can be permanently upheld, but that it is the Church which teaches the
truth."  That, he insisted, was the position which the House ought to maintain without allowing
its decision to be affected by the mere {248} assertion, even if the assertion were capable
of proof, that the revenues of the State Church in Ireland were entirely out of proportion
to the spiritual needs of the Protestant population.  Mr. Gladstone, however, had the mind
of the financier even in those early days of his career, and he was at some pains to argue
that the disproportion between the numbers of the Protestant and the Catholic populations in
Ireland was not so great as Lord John Russell had asserted.  He made out this part of his case
ingeniously enough by including in the Protestant population in Ireland all the various members
of the dissenting denominations, many or most of whom were as little likely to attend the administrations
of the Established Church as the Roman Catholics themselves.

[Sidenote: 1835--Defeat of Peel's Ministry]

Gladstone's speech was thoroughly consistent in its opposition to Lord John Russell's resolution
on the ground that that resolution, if pressed to its legitimate conclusion, assailed the whole
principle on which the State Church in Ireland was founded.  If those individuals who are called
on to fulfil the high function of administering public affairs should be compelled to exclude
from their consideration the elements of true religion, and to view various strange and conflicting
doctrines in the same light, instead of administering those noble functions, they will become
helots and slaves."  The weakness of Mr. Gladstone's case was found in the fact that he insisted
on regarding the State Church in Ireland as resting on precisely the same foundations as those
which upheld the State Church in England.  The truth was afterwards brought home to him that
every argument which could be fairly used to justify the maintenance of the State Church in
England was but another argument for the abolition of the State Church in Ireland--a work which
it became at last his duty to accomplish.  "I shall content myself," said Daniel O'Connell
in his speech in the debate, "with laying down the broad principle that the {249} emoluments
of a Church ought not to be raised from a people who do not belong to it.  Ireland does not
ask for a Catholic Establishment.  The Irish desire political equality in every respect, except
that they would not accept a single shilling for their Church."

Sir Robert Peel made a speech which was at once very powerful and very plausible.  It was not,
perhaps, pitched in a very exalted key, but it was full of argument, at once subtle and telling.
He challenged the accuracy of Lord John Russell's figures, and declaimed against the injustice
of inviting the House to pass a resolution founded on statistics which it had as yet no possible
opportunity of verifying or even of examining.  He pointed out that the Government had already
given notice of their intention to bring in measures to deal with the very question concerned
in Lord John Russell's resolution; and he asked what sincerity there could be in the purposes
of men who professed a desire to amend as quickly as possible the tithe system in Ireland,
and who yet were eager to deprive the Government of any chance of bringing forward the measures
which they had prepared in order to accomplish that very object.  The main argument of the
speech was directed not so much against the policy embodied in the resolution of Lord John
Russell, as against the manner in which it was proposed to carry out that policy.  Sir Robert
Peel declared that the object of the Opposition was not to effect any improvement in the relations
of the State Church of Ireland and the people of Ireland, but simply and solely to turn out
the Government.  Why not, he asked, come to the point boldly and at once?  Why not bring forward
a vote of censure on the Government, or a vote of want of confidence in the Government, and
thus compel them, if defeated, to go out of office, instead of endeavoring to enforce on them
the adoption of a resolution dealing with questions which the Government had already promised
to make the subject of legislation, and without waiting to hear what manner of legislation
they were prepared to introduce?

There was an eloquent defiance in the closing words of Peel's speech. The great minister knew
that defeat was {250} awaiting him, and he showed himself resolved to meet it half way.  At
three o'clock on the morning of April 3 the division on the resolution of Lord John Russell
took place.  There were 322 votes for the resolution and 289 against it.  The resolution was
therefore carried by a majority of 33.  The student of history will observe with interest that
the abolition of the Irish State Church was the result of a series of resolutions carried by
Mr. Gladstone in the House of Commons in 1868, and afterwards embodied in an act of legislation.

[Sidenote: 1835--Melbourne and Brougham]

The debate on Lord John Russell's resolution was carried on for a few days longer, but it was
chiefly concerned with mere questions as to the form in which the Ministry were called upon
to give effect to the wish of the majority, and submit the resolution to the King.  There was
no heart or practical purpose in these debates, for everybody already knew what the end must
be.  On April 8 Sir Robert Peel announced to the House that he could not take any part in giving
effect to the resolution, and that, therefore, he and his colleagues had determined on resigning
their offices.  The course taken by Peel was thoroughly honest, consistent, and upright, and
Lord John Russell bore prompt and willing testimony to the constitutional propriety of the
retiring Prime Minister's resolve.  The Peel Ministry had come to its end.  The country had
been put to the trouble and expense of a general election, valuable time had been wasted, legislative
preparations had been thrown away, and everything was now back again in just the same condition
as when the King made up his mind to dismiss the Melbourne Administration. The whole blame
for the muddle rested on the King, who now found himself compelled to take up again with Lord
Melbourne just as if nothing had happened.  The King, indeed, made an attempt to induce Lord
Grey to come out of his retirement and form another Ministry; but Lord Grey was not to be prevailed
upon to accept such an invitation, and William had to gulp down his personal objections and
invite Lord Melbourne to come back once more and take charge of the Government of the country.

{251}

Lord Melbourne had no difficulty in forming an Administration, and it was on the whole very
much the same in its composition as that which King William had so rudely dismissed only a
few months before.  But there were some new names in the list, and there was one very remarkable
omission.  Lord Brougham was not one of the members of the new Government.  Lord Melbourne
had made up his mind that if, perhaps, there could be no living without such a colleague, there
certainly could be no living with him, and he preferred the chance to the certainty.  The greatest
sensation was produced all over the country when it was found that Lord Brougham was to have
nothing to do with the new Administration.  In and out of Parliament the question became a
subject of keen and vehement discussion.  The energy and the eloquence of Brougham had held
a commanding place among the forces by which Parliamentary reform had been effected, and the
wonder was how any Reform Ministry could venture to carry on the work of government, not merely
without the co-operation of such a man, but with every likelihood of his active and bitter
hostility.  At one time the report went abroad, and found many ready believers, that there
were periods in Brougham's life when his great intellect became clouded, as Chatham's had been
at one time, and that the Liberal Ministry found it therefore impossible to avail themselves
of his fitful services.  Lord Melbourne himself once made an emphatic appeal to his audience
in the House of Lords, after Lord Brougham had delivered a speech there of characteristic power
and eloquence.  Melbourne invited the House to consider calmly how overmastering must have
been the reasons which compelled any body of rational statesmen to deprive themselves of such
a man's co-operation.  It would appear, however, that the reasons which influenced Melbourne
and his colleagues were given by Brougham's own passionate and ungovernable temper, his impatience
of all discipline, his sudden changes of mood and purpose, his overmastering egotism, and his
frequent impulse to strike out for himself and to disregard all considerations of convenience
or compromise, all {252} calculations as to the effect of an individual movement on the policy
of an Administration.

[Sidenote: 1835--Melbourne and the Irish Members]

From that time Brougham had nothing more to do with ministerial work. He became merely an independent,
a very independent, member of the House of Lords.  To the close of his long career he was a
commanding figure in the House and in the country, but it was an individual figure, an eccentric
figure, whose movements must always excite interest, must often excite admiration, but from
whom guidance and inspiration were never to be expected.  Even on some of the great questions
with which the brightest part of his career had been especially associated he often failed
to exercise the influence which might have been expected from a man of such gifts and such
achievements.  Through the remainder of his life he could always arouse the attention of the
country, and indeed of the civilized world, when he so willed, but his work as a political
leader was done.

The office of Lord Chancellor was left for a while vacant, or, to describe the fact in more
technical language, was put into commission. The commission was made up of the Master of the
Rolls, the Vice-Chancellor, and one of the Judges.  After a time Lord Cottenham was made Lord
Chancellor.  Lord John Russell became Home Secretary, and Lord Palmerston was Foreign Secretary.
Among the new names on the list of the Administration was that of Sir Henry Parnell, who became
Paymaster-General and Paymaster of the Navy, and that of Sir George Grey, who was Under-Secretary
of the Colonies, and afterwards rose to hold high office in many a Government, and had at one
time the somewhat undesirable reputation of being the rapidest speaker in the House of Commons.

King William must have put a strong constraint upon himself when he found that he had to receive,
on terms at least of civility, so many of the men, as ministers, whom he had abruptly dismissed
from his service not long before.  For a considerable time he put up with them rather than
received them, and maintained a merely official relationship with them so far even as not to
invite them to dinner.  {253} After a time, however, his Majesty somewhat softened in temper;
the relations between him and his advisers became less strained; and he even went so far as
to invite the members of the Cabinet to dinner, and expressed in his invitation the characteristic
wish that each guest would drink at least two bottles of wine.  When the construction of the
new Ministry had been completed, Parliament reassembled on April 18; but that meeting was little
more than of formal character, as the Houses had again to adjourn in order to enable the new
members who were members of the House of Commons to resign and seek, according to constitutional
usage, for re-election at the hands of their constituents.  The only public interest attaching
to the meeting of Parliament on April 18 was found in an attempt, made by two Tory peers, to
extract from Lord Melbourne some public explanation as to his dealings with O'Connell and the
Irish party.  Lord Melbourne was quite equal to the occasion, and nothing could be drawn from
him further than the declaration that he had entered into no arrangements whatever with O'Connell;
that if the Irish members should, on any occasion, give him their support, he should be happy
to receive it, but that he had not taken and did not mean to take any steps to secure it. 
The incident is worth noting because it serves to illustrate, once again, the effect of the
new condition which had been introduced into the struggles of the two great political parties
by the passing of the Catholic Emancipation Act, and the consequent admission of Irish Catholic
members into the House of Commons.

Some of the members of the new Administration were not successful when they made their appeal
to their old constituencies.  Lord John Russell, for instance, was beaten in South Devonshire
by a Tory antagonist, and a vacancy had to be made for him in the little borough of Stroud,
the representative of which withdrew in order to oblige the leaders of his party, and obtained,
in return for his act of self-sacrifice, an office under Government.  Lord Palmerston was placed
in a difficulty of the same kind, and a vacancy was made for him in the borough of {254} Tiverton
by the good-nature and the public spirit of its sitting representative, and from that time
to the end of his long career Lord Palmerston continued to be the member for Tiverton, which
indeed won, by that fact alone, a conspicuous place in Parliamentary history. There were other
disturbances of the same kind in the relations of the members of the new Government and their
former constituents, and it was clear enough that a certain reaction was still working against
the political impulse which had carried the Reform measures to success. Still, it was clear
that the new Government had come into power as a Government of reformers, and Lord Melbourne
found himself compelled to go on with the work of reform.  Nothing could be less in keeping
with his habits and the inclinations of his easy-going nature.  It used to be said of him that
whenever he was urged to set about any work of the kind his instinctive impulse always was
to meet the suggestion with the question: "Why can't you let it alone?"  Now, however, he had
in his Cabinet some men, like Lord John Russell, whose earnestness in the cause of Reform was
genuine and unconquerable; and if Lord Melbourne was too indolent to press forward reforms
on his own account, he was also too indolent to resist such a pressure when put on him by others.

[Sidenote: 1835--Foundation of municipal bodies]

There was one great pressing and obvious reform which remained to be accomplished and ought
naturally to follow on the reorganization of the Parliamentary system.  That was the reorganization
of the municipal system.  The municipal work of the country, the management of all the various
and complicated relations which concerned the local affairs of the whole community, had become
a mere chaos of anomalies, anachronisms, and, in too many instances, of reckless mismanagement
and downright corruption.  If the sort of so-called representation which prevailed in the Parliamentary
constituencies was, up to 1832, an absurdity and a fraud, it was not perhaps on the whole quite
so absurd or altogether so fraudulent as that which set itself up for a representative system
in the arrangements of the municipal corporations.  As in the case of the {255} Parliamentary
system, so in the case of the municipal system, the organization had begun with an intelligible
principle to guide it; but, during the lapse of years and even of centuries, the original purpose
had been swamped by the gradual and always increasing growth of confusion and corruption. 
The municipal arrangements of England had begun as a practical protest against the feudal system.
While the feudal laws or customs still prevailed, the greater proportion of the working-classes
were really little better than serfs at the absolute control of their feudal lords and masters.
The comparatively small proportion of men who formed the trading class of the community found
themselves compelled to devise some kind of arrangement for the security of themselves, their
traffic, and their property against the dominion of the ruling class.  It was practically impossible
that a mere serf could devote his energies to a craft or trade with any hope of independence
for himself or any chance of contributing to the prosperity of his working and trading neighbors.
The trading, manufacturing, and commercial classes in each locality began to form themselves
into groups, or what might be called guilds, of their own, with the object of common protection,
in order to secure an opening for their traffic and their industry, and for the preservation
of the earnings and the profits which came of their skill and energy.  These trading groups
asserted for themselves their right to free action in all that regarded the regulation of their
work and the secure disposal of their profits, and thus they became what might be called governing
bodies in each separate locality.  One common principle of these governing bodies was that
no one should be allowed to become a craftsman or trader in any district if he were a serf,
and they claimed, and gradually came to maintain, the right to invest others with the title
and privileges of freemen.  This right of freemanship soon became hereditary, and the male
children of a freeman were to be freemen themselves.  In many communities the man who married
a freeman's daughter acquired, if he had not been free before, the right of freemanship.  No
qualification of residence was necessary to {256} enable a man thus to become free.  The self-organized
community, whatever it might be, had the right of creating any stranger a freeman according
as it thought fit.

[Sidenote: 1835--Reform of municipal corporations]

We find this ancient system still in harmless and graceful illustration when a public man who
has distinguished himself in the service of the country is honored by admission to the freedom
of some ancient city. But in the far-off days, when the system was in practical operation,
the unlimited right of creating freemen came to mean that in many cities, towns, and localities
of all descriptions a number of outsiders who had no connection by residence, property, or
local interest of any kind with the district, and who were wholly irresponsible to the public
opinion of the local community, had the right to interfere in the management of its affairs
and to become members of its municipal body. For the local traders soon began to form themselves
into councils or committees for the management of the local affairs, and, in fact, became what
might be described as self-elected municipal corporations; trustees who had assumed the trust
for themselves; local law-makers whose term of office was lifelong, and against whose decision
there was no available court of appeal.  In some cases these local bodies actually arrogated
to themselves the right of passing penal laws, and trying cases and awarding punishments. 
The local municipalities sometimes exercised the power of appointing Recorders to preside over
their courts of law, and it happened in many instances that the municipal body made no condition
as to the Recorder being a member of any branch of the legal profession.  It is hardly necessary
to point out some of the inevitable consequences of such a system.  The municipal bodies voted
what salaries they pleased out of the local funds, and named according to their pleasure the
persons to receive the salaries.  They disposed of the corporate revenues in any way they thought
fit--and, indeed, in many cases they claimed and annexed as corporate property possessions
that had always, up to the time of the annexation, been supposed to belong to the public at
large.  They usurped for themselves all manner of privileges and {257} so-called rights, and,
if they thought fit, offered them for purchase to the highest bidder.  The whole governing
body often consisted of a very small number of residents who had elected themselves to office,
and as they had the power of making themselves very disagreeable to disputants they did not
often find individuals public spirited enough to challenge their right of local control.  It
happened much more frequently that if any man were strong enough to make his opposition inconvenient
or uncomfortable for the local rulers, they got over the trouble by prevailing on him to become
one of themselves, to share their privileges and profits, and to strengthen their authority.
A local magnate, the head of some great family, a peer of old descent, was often thus "nobbled"--to
use a modern colloquialism--and was allowed to make as many freemen as he pleased and to take
whatever part he would in the control of municipal affairs.

It would be superfluous to say that the municipalities became a constantly working instrument
in the hands of this or that political party.  Wherever the Whigs or the Tories were strong,
there the constituencies, such as they were, could always be placed at the absolute disposal
of some local magnate.  Even in the districts where there was but little actual corruption
there was often the most extravagant waste of the public funds and public property, and the
most utter neglect of all the ordinary ways of business and of economy.  For a long time the
increasing evils of the system had been attracting the attention and arousing the alarm of
enlightened and public-spirited men all over the country, and of course when the great measure
of reform had dealt with the political system, it was obvious that the reforming hand must
before long touch the municipal system as well.  Shortly after the passing of the Reform Bill
Lord Althorp had appointed a commission to inquire into the whole history, growth, and working
of the municipal corporations, and the report had brought out an immense amount of systematized
information on which the Liberal statesmen, now once again in office, were determined to act.
Lord Melbourne intrusted the task of {258} preparing and conducting through the House of Commons
a measure for this purpose to the capable hands of Lord John Russell, who was now the leader
of the Government in that House.  Lord John Russell's measure was, in fact, the foundation
of the whole municipal system which we see spread over the country in our times.  It proposed
to begin by abolishing altogether the freeman system and placing the election of local governing
bodies in the hands of residents who paid a certain amount of taxation.  In fact, it made the
municipal bodies representative in just the same sense as the Parliamentary constituencies
had been made representative by the Reform Act.  It remodelled altogether the local law courts
and legal arrangements of the municipalities, and ordered that the appointment of Recorders
should be in the hands of the Crown, that each Recorder was to be a barrister of a certain
standing, and that a Recorder should be nominated for every borough which undertook to provide
a suitable salary for the occupant of the office.  Provision was also made for the proper management
of charitable trusts and funds.

[Sidenote: 1835--The Municipal Reform Bill]

The measure was to apply to 183 boroughs, not including the metropolis, with an average of
11,000 persons to each borough.  Some of the larger boroughs were to be divided into wards,
and in most cases the intention of the measure was that the boundaries of the Parliamentary
borough should be the boundaries of the municipal borough as well.  The governing body of each
municipality was to consist of a Mayor and Councillors, the Councillors to be elected by resident
ratepayers.  It was proposed that the rights of living freemen were to be maintained, but as
each life lapsed the right was to be extinguished, and thus the whole freeman system was to
die out and all exclusive trading privileges were to be abolished.  The Bill, as introduced
by Lord John Russell, only applied to England and Wales; but O'Connell demanded that Ireland
should also be included in the reform, and it was finally agreed that a Bill of the same nature
should be brought in for Ireland, and that arrangements should be made with the Scottish representatives
to have the provisions of the {259} measure applied also to Scotland so far as might be consistent
with the usages and the desire of the Scottish people.

Sir Robert Peel did not offer any direct opposition to the measure, although he criticised
it severely enough in some of its provisions. His speech, however, was distinctly a declaration
in favor of some comprehensive scheme of municipal reform, and might fairly have been regarded
rather as a help than as a hinderance to the purposes of the Government.  The example set by
Sir Robert Peel had naturally much influence over the greater number of the Conservative party,
and only some very old-fashioned Conservatives seemed inclined to make a stand against the
measure.  Mr. Grote seized the opportunity to introduce a motion for the adoption of the ballot
in municipal elections, but it is hardly necessary to say that he did not secure support enough
on either side of the House to win success for his proposition.  The Bill passed through the
House of Commons without any important change in its character, but it met with very serious
maltreatment in the House of Lords.  The majority of the peers did not see their way to compass
the actual rejection of the Bill, especially after the liberal and statesmanlike spirit in
which Sir Robert Peel had dealt with it; but they set themselves to work with the object of
rendering it as nearly useless as they could for the purposes which its promoters had in view.
Lord Lyndhurst led the opposition to the Bill, and he could, when he so pleased, become the
very narrowest of Tories, while he had ability and plausibility not included in the intellectual
stock of any other Tory then in the House of Lords.  Under this leadership the Tory peers so
disfigured and mangled the Bill that before long its own authors could hardly have recognized
it as the work of their hands.  The peers not only restored all, or nearly all, the abuses
and anomalies which the measure as it left the House of Commons had marked for utter abolition,
but they even went so far as to introduce into their version of the Bill some entirely new
and original suggestions for the creation of abuses up to that time unknown to the existing
municipal system.

{260}

The Bill thus diversified had, of course, to go back to the House of Commons, and it is hardly
necessary to say that the House of Commons could not, as the Parliamentary phrase goes, agree
with the Lords' amendments.  Peel once again took a statesmanlike course, and strongly advised
the House of Lords not to press their absurd and objectionable alterations.  In the House of
Lords itself the Duke of Wellington, acting as he almost always did under the influence of
Peel, recommended the Tory peers not to carry their opposition too far, and before long Lord
Lyndhurst, who was by temperament and intellect a very shrewd and practical man, with little
of the visionary or the fanatic about him, thought it well to accept Wellington's advice, and
to urge its acceptance on his brother Conservatives.  Lord John Russell recommended the House
of Commons to accept a compromise on a few insignificant details in no wise affecting the general
purposes of the measure, in order to soothe the wounded feelings of the peers and enable them
to yield with the comforting belief that after all their resistance had not been wholly in
vain.  The struggle was over, and on September 7, 1835, the measure became law in the same
shape, to all practical purposes, as that which it wore when it left the House of Commons after
its third reading there, and thus secured for Great Britain and Ireland the system of municipal
government which has been working to this day.

{261}

CHAPTER LXXVIII.

STILL THE REIGN OF REFORM.

[Sidenote: 1836--The Universities of London]

The movement for the diffusion of education among the people had been making steady progress
during the reign of William the Fourth, and some of the most distinct and lasting memorials
of that movement have come to be associated with the history of the reign.  One of these was
the granting of a charter for the establishment of a great university which was to bear the
name of the capital, and was to confer its degrees, its honors, and its offices without any
conditions as to the religious profession of those whom it educated, and whom it taught and
qualified by appointment to conduct the education of others.  The old Universities of Oxford
and Cambridge were then directly associated with the State Church, and only gave the stamp
of their approval and the right to teach to those who professed the religion established by
law. There had been growing up, for some time, a feeling in the community that there was need
for a system of university teaching which should be open alike to the members of all creeds
and denominations, and even to those who did not profess to subscribe to the doctrines of any
particular creed, or to enroll themselves in the ranks of any particular denomination.  The
institutions which are now known as University College, London, and the University of London
are among the most remarkable growths of this movement.  After years of effort the charters
for these institutions were granted by King William in 1836, and it is needless to say that
University College has played a great part in the spreading of education among the middle and
poorer classes throughout the country.  Henry Brougham was one of the most active promoters
of the effort to bring the higher education and {262} its honors within the reach of all classes
and creeds, and his name will always be distinctly associated with the rapid progress made
in the spread of knowledge during the earlier part of the nineteenth century. Brougham was
one of the founders and promoters of the "Penny Cyclopaedia for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge,"
which delighted some of our grandfathers, amazed and bewildered others, and filled yet others
with a holy horror at the daring effort to upset all the wholesome distinctions of ranks and
classes by cramming the lower orders with an amount of knowledge wholly unsuited to their subordinate
condition, and unfitting them for the proper discharge of the duties associated with that station
in life to which it had pleased Providence to call them.

Brougham also took a leading part in the founding of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science, which was established by Sir David Brewster, Sir Roderick Murchison, and many other
men famous in science and in letters in 1831.  It has been holding its annual meetings in all
the great cities and towns of these islands ever since, and is not likely to be interrupted
in the continuance of its work. The British Association was the subject of a good deal of cheap
ridicule in its early days, and caricaturists, most of them long since forgotten, delighted
in humorous illustrations of the oddities by which social life was to be profusely diversified
when science was taught at popular meetings, and not merely men, but even women and young women,
could sit in the public hall and listen to great professors discoursing on the construction
of the earth and the laws which regulate the movements of the heavenly bodies.  The present
generation has almost completely forgotten even the fact that the British Association was once
a familiar and favorite subject for the pen and pencil of satirists.  "The schoolmaster is
abroad" was an expression used by Brougham to illustrate the educational movement which was
going on in his time, and which he did as much as any man could have done to set and to keep
in motion.  King William himself, we may be sure, took only a very moderate interest in all
these goings {263} on, but, at all events, he did not stand in the way of the general educational
movement; and indeed he gave it a kindly word of patronage and encouragement whenever it seemed
a part of his State functions to sanction the progress of science by his royal recognition.

[Sidenote: 1831--The press-gang]

Among the many reforms accomplished in this reign of reform was that which effected the practical
abolition of the system of impressment for the Navy, that system which had so long worked its
purposes through the action of what was familiarly known as the press-gang.  The press-gang
system had been in force from very remote days indeed, for it is shown by statute and by record
to have been in operation before 1378.  In 1641 the practice was declared illegal by Parliament;
but Parliament might just as well not have troubled itself upon the subject, for the impressment
of seamen went on just as if nothing had happened. Whenever seamen were required to man the
royal fleet in time of war, the press-gang instantly came into operation.  Its mode of action
was simple and straight-forward, and consisted of the forcible arrest and complete capture
of merchant seamen and fishermen, or stalwart young men of any kind, in seaport towns, who
looked as if they had seen service on some kind of sailing craft.  The ordinary practice was
that an officer and a party of seamen and marines landed from some ships of war in the harbor,
and seized and carried off any number of men who seemed to them suitable for their purpose,
and dragged them as prisoners on board war vessels, where they were compelled to serve until
such time as their help might be no longer needed.

The literature of England, almost down to our own times, is diversified here and there by illustrations
of the scenes which were created in our seaport towns by this practice.  Smollett has more
than one animated picture of this kind.  The sea stories of Captain Marryat's days abound in
such illustrations, and even romance of the higher order, and poetry itself, have found subjects
for picturesque and pathetic narrative in the stories of young men thus torn from their families
without a moment's {264} notice, and compelled to go on a ship of war and fight the foreign
enemy at sea.  The pay of an able seaman in a ship of war was, in those times, very poor; the
life was one of hardship, and there was little to tempt a young man of ordinary ways and temperament
to enter the naval service of his sovereign.  The seaport towns and the towns on the great
rivers were called upon by royal authority to supply a certain proportionate number of men
for service in the Navy, and the local governing bodies did their best, we may be sure, by
the offer of bounties and other encouragements, to induce young men to volunteer for the sea.
In times of war, however, when sudden demands were made on the part of the Crown for the efficient
manning of the Navy, these encouragements and temptations often failed to procure anything
like the required amount of voluntary service, and then it was that the press-gang came into
work to meet the demand by force.

[Sidenote: 1835--Resisting the press-gang]

During the long wars which followed the outbreak of the French Revolution the press-gang had
a busy time of it.  Vessels of war were in the constant habit of summoning merchant vessels
to hand over a certain number of their seamen, and the merchant vessels were brought to just
as if they had been the cruisers of the enemy, and were boarded by force, whenever force seemed
necessary, and compelled to supply the requisite number.  It sometimes happened that the captain
of a vessel failed to understand the meaning of the peremptory summons issued to him, and he
was then promptly brought to an understanding of the situation by the shot of the war vessel
and the appearance of an armed boarding party on his own decks.  Nor was it even a very unusual
event for the captain of the merchant vessel to offer a resistance, and then there was a regular
sea-fight between the British war ship and the British merchantman, in which, of course, the
latter was very soon compelled to acknowledge the validity of the royal warrant.

In the ordinary course of things, however, the captain of the war vessel sent an officer and
a party of men on shore, and their business was to make any captures they {265} pleased, in
that part of the town where men fit for service at sea were most likely to be found.  There
are stories told, and told on historic evidence as truth, about young husbands thus captured
and thrown into prison to await their removal to some war vessel off the coast, and whose wives
or mothers could devise no better means for their rescue than to obtain an interview with them
in the prison, and there contrive so to mutilate the hands of the captives through the bars
of the cell as to render them unfit for service in the Royal Navy.  Sometimes, when it became
known that the press-gang was about to visit that part of the town where seafaring men were
likely to be found, the population of the quarter rallied in defence of their townsmen, and
offered just such resistance to the emissaries of the naval authorities as they would have
offered to an invading enemy.  Streets were barricaded; from the high windows of houses stones
were hurled down and volleys of musketry were fired; crowds of armed men, and even sometimes
of armed women, met the invaders in the street itself and disputed their progress inch by inch.

In the lower quarters of Portsmouth and other seaport towns such scenes were of frequent occurrence.
The whole system had among its other harmful effects a very damaging influence on the Navy
itself and on its discipline.  The press-gang was not very choice in making up its contributions
of recruits for the fleet.  No great pains were taken with a view to obtain certificates as
to character and conduct.  Those who formed the recruiting expedition were only too ready to
seize any strapping young men whom they found loitering about the streets and lanes of the
lower quarters in a seaport town.  These strapping young men often turned out to be rising
young men of the criminal classes, but their limbs and muscles made them like some of Falstaff's
recruits, "good enough to toss--food for powder," and they were promptly swooped upon and carried
off to serve in his Majesty's Navy.  Such captives as these, when put on board a vessel of
war and compelled to serve as seamen there, had the influence which might have been expected
from them over the habits of the whole crew.  {266} The severest and even the most savage methods
of discipline were often found necessary to force such men into habits of obedience and into
anything like decent conduct.  Flogging then, and for long after, prevailed in the Navy and
in the Army, and one of the most familiar arguments in favor of keeping up that form of discipline
was found in the fact that in many cases the new recruits might have corrupted the habits of
a whole ship's company if they had not been compelled by frequent floggings to obey orders,
submit themselves to rules, and conduct themselves with decency.

For a long time a strong feeling had been growing up among philanthropists and reformers of
all kinds against the practice of impressment and against the discipline of the "cat," as the
flogging instrument was commonly termed.  The philanthropists and the reformers generally were
met by the old sort of familiar argument.  They were told that it would be utterly impossible
to man a navy if the press-gang were to be abolished, and equally impossible to keep the Navy
up to its work and in decent condition if seamen were no longer liable to the punishment of
the lash.  The innovators were asked whether they knew better how to raise and maintain an
efficient Navy than did the naval authorities, on whose shoulders rested the responsibility
of defending the shores of England from foreign invasion.  Those who made themselves conspicuous
by their advocacy of what were then beginning to be called humanitarian principles were roundly
accused of want of patriotism, and it was often suggested that they were anti-English in their
sentiments and their instincts, and were persons who would probably, on the whole, rather welcome
the foreign invader than lend a hand to drive him back.  The spirit of humanity and of reform
was in the air, however, and in the reformed Parliament there were many men who had as good
a gift of eloquence as the best of their opponents, and who could not be frightened out of
any purpose on which they had set their minds and hearts.  In 1835 the Government of Lord Melbourne
brought in a measure for the abolition of the press-gang {267} system and for limitation of
compulsory service in the Navy to a period of five years.  This measure not only had its own
direct and immediate beneficial effects, but it also did much to prepare the way for the abolition
of flogging.  Many years, indeed, had to pass before this latter reform could be accomplished,
but it was clear that, when the manning of the Navy no longer brought with it its captures
from the criminal classes, the time was coming for the gradual adoption of a system of discipline
more in accordance with the principles of humanity and the character of a noble service.  As
we have seen in all previous experiences of reform, the forebodings of the anti-reformers proved
to be utterly false alarms in regard to the manning and the discipline of the Navy.  We have
seen some foreign wars since the days of William the Fourth, and we have heard alarms of foreign
invasion again and again.  But the Navy, under its improved conditions, has never been in want
of volunteers to man it, and the greatest lovers of peace have always proclaimed it to be the
surest and best defence of the country.  There were many leading men in the House of Commons
since those days who persistently demanded a reduction in the Army on the very ground that
England could safely defy any foreign foe so long as she had the bulwark of such a Navy.

[Sidenote: 1840--The new Houses of Parliament]

One great, solid, and picturesque memorial is destined to associate the reign of William the
Fourth with the history of English architecture. We speak of the Houses of Parliament which
stand on the banks of the river, and thus have the Thames on one side and Westminster Abbey
on the other.  The great range of halls, towers, and terraces, arches, squares, and court-yards,
which, until comparatively recent days, were often described in common phrase as the New Houses
of Parliament, owe their origin and their plan, although not their complete construction, to
the reign of William the Fourth.  On the evening of October 16, 1834, the old buildings in
which the Lords and the Commons used to assemble were completely destroyed by fire.  The fire
broke out so suddenly on that evening and spread with such extraordinary rapidity that many
of those {268} who were engaged in occupations of one kind or another in various parts of the
buildings had much difficulty in escaping with their lives.  The flames spread so fast that
in an almost incredibly short space of time the two Houses of Parliament, and almost all the
offices, residences, and other buildings attached to them, were seen to be devoted to hopeless
ruin.  For a while it seemed almost certain that Westminster Hall itself must be involved in
the common destruction, and even the noble Abbey, with its priceless memorial treasures, appeared
destined to become a mere ruin of shattered stones. The arrangements for the extinguishing
of fires were rude and poor and inefficient in those days when compared with the systematized
service which is employed in our own, and for a considerable time those who hurried to the
spot, charged with the duty of combating the conflagration, appeared to do little better than
get in each other's way and only give new chances to each fresh eruption.  The tide in the
river was very low, too, when the destroying work began, and it was hard indeed to bring any
great body of water to bear upon the flames. As the tide rose, however, it became easy to make
more effective efforts.  At last it was found that Westminster Abbey might be considered perfectly
safe.  So was Westminster Hall, that noble historical enclosure, the Hall which saw the trial
of William Wallace, of Charles the First, of Somers, and of Warren Hastings, the hall which
celebrated the coronation of so many kings, which boasts of being the oldest chamber in Europe
held in continuous occupation up to the present day, the largest hall in Europe unsupported
by pillars.  It was preserved, to be the grand entrance and vestibule to both the Houses of
Parliament.  But the chambers in which, up to that day, the Lords and Commons had conducted
their legislative work were utterly destroyed.

[Sidenote: 1834--Burning of the old Parliament Houses]

At first it was assumed, as is almost always the assumption in the case of any great conflagration,
that the work of destruction had been the outcome of an incendiary plot, and for a while a
wild idea spread abroad that some modern Guy Fawkes had succeeded where his predecessor had
{269} completely failed.  But it was soon made clear and certain that the whole calamity, if
indeed it can be called much of a calamity, had been the result of a mere accident.  A careless
workman, aspiring to nothing more than a quick release from his labor, and not destined to
the fame of the aspiring youth who fired the Ephesian dome, had brought about the ruin which
bequeathed to England and to the world the vast and noble structure of Westminster Palace.
The workman was engaged in burning up a number of the old, disused wooden tallies which once
used to be employed in the Court of Exchequer, and he heaped too large a bundle of them on
the fire.  At an unlucky moment a flame suddenly blazed up which caught hold of the furniture
in the room, and in another moment set the whole building on fire, and then created the vast
conflagration which wrought so much destruction.

We have expressed a certain doubt as to whether the burning of the old Houses of Parliament
is really to be regarded as a national calamity, and the doubt is founded partly on the admitted
fact that the chambers which existed before the fire were quite unequal in size and in accommodation
to the purposes for which they were designed, and partly on the architectural magnificence
of the buildings which succeeded them.  The Lords and Commons found accommodation where they
could while preparations were in progress for the building of new and better chambers, and
a Parliamentary committee was soon appointed to consider and report upon the best means of
providing the country with more commodious and more stately Houses of Parliament.  The committee
ventured on a recommendation which was considered, at the time, a most daring piece of advice.
The recommendation was that the contract for the erection of the new Houses of Parliament should
be thrown absolutely open to public competition.  Nothing like that proposal had ever been
heard of under similar conditions in English affairs up to that time.  What seemed to most
persons the most natural and proper plan--the seemly, becoming, and orderly plan--would have
been to allow the sovereign or some great State {270} personage to select the Court architect
who might be thought most fitting to be intrusted with so great a task, and let him work out,
as best he could, the pleasure of his illustrious patron.  The committee, however, were able
to carry their point, and the contract for the great work was thrown open to unrestricted competition.
Out of a vast number of designs submitted for approval, the committee selected the design sent
in by Mr. Barry (afterwards Sir Charles Barry), the famous architect, who has left many other
monuments of his genius to the nation, but whose most conspicuous monument, assuredly, is found
in the pile of buildings which ornament the Thames at Westminster.

[Sidenote: 1840--The seating capacity of the Commons]

Only the mere fact that the selection of the design for the new building was made during the
lifetime of William the Fourth connects the reign of that monarch with the history of Westminster
Palace.  It was not until the reign of Queen Victoria had made some way that the towers of
the palace began to show themselves above the river; but the new principle which offered the
design for the work to public competition, and the fact that Mr. Barry's design was chosen
from all others, oblige us to associate the building of the new chambers with the reign of
a sovereign whose name otherwise was not likely to be identified with any triumph of artistic
genius.  We must not set down to any defects in the architect's constructive skill the fact
that the new House of Commons was almost as inadequate to the proper accommodation of its members
as the old House had been.  The present House of Commons does not provide sitting accommodation
for anything like the number of members who are entitled to have seats on its benches.  Even
if the galleries set apart for the use of members only, galleries that are practically useless
for the purposes of debate, were to be filled to their utmost, there still would not be room
for nearly all the members of the House of Commons.  But at the time when the new House was
built, the general impression of statesmen on both sides seemed to be that, if the chamber
were made spacious enough to give a seat to every member, the result would be {271} that the
room would be too large for anything like practical, easy, and satisfactory discussion, and
that the chamber would become a mere hall of declamation.

At that time almost all the business of the House, even to its most minute details of legislation,
was done in the debating-chamber itself. The scheme which was adopted a great many years later,
and by means of which the shaping of the details of legislative measures is commonly relegated
to Grand Committees, as the Parliamentary phrase goes, had not then found any favor with statesmen.
The daily work of the House was left, for the most part, in the hands of the members of the
Administration and the leading members of the Opposition, or, in cases where the interests
of a particular class, or trade, or district were concerned, to the men who had special knowledge
of each subject of legislation.  It was therefore argued, and with much plausibility, that
to construct a chamber large enough to hold seats for all the members would be to impose an
insupportable, and at the same time a quite unnecessary, strain upon the energies and the lungs
of the comparatively small number of men by whom the actual business of the House had to be
carried on.  This argument was used with much effect, not many years before his death, by Mr.
Gladstone himself, and there can be no doubt that it maintained itself against the many successive
proposals which have been made from time to time for the enlargement of the representative
chamber.  In most other legislative halls, on the Continent or in the United States or in Canada,
each member has his own seat, and finds it ready for his occupation at any time; but in the
House of Commons on great occasions the ordinary member has to come to the House at the earliest
moment when its doors are open, hours and hours before the business begins, in order to have
even a chance of obtaining a seat during the debate, and a large number of members are fated,
whatever their energy and their early rising, to sigh for a seat in vain.  The question has
been raised again and again in the House of Commons, and all manner of propositions have been
brought forward and plans suggested for the {272} enlargement of the debating-chamber, but
up to the present the condition of things remains just as it was when the new Houses of Parliament
were opened in the reign of Queen Victoria.

[Sidenote: 1840--Ladies in the House of Commons]

Sir Charles Barry's design has the great advantage that it renders an increase in the size
of the House of Commons possible and practicable without a complete reconstruction of all that
part of the vast building which belongs to the representative chamber and its various offices.
In the opinion of many leading members of the House of Commons the number of representatives
is needlessly large for the purposes demanded by an adequate and proportionate system of representation,
and it is not difficult to foresee changes which might lead, with universal satisfaction, to
a reduction in the number of members in the House of Commons.  It may also be anticipated that
the system that relegates the details of legislative measures to the consideration of Grand
Committees may be gradually extended as time goes on, and that thus the committee work of the
House of Commons itself may grow less and less by degrees.  In either case, or in both cases
together, it might easily come to pass that the present debating-chamber would supply ample
sitting room to all its members on every ordinary occasion, although it is hardly possible
to understand how, on a night of great debate, with a momentous division impending, the present
chamber could be expected to accommodate the full number of members entitled to claim seats
there.  At all events, it is hardly possible to imagine any condition of things arising which
could call for any alteration in the construction of the representative chamber which would
be likely to affect, in the slightest degree, the general character of that palace of legislation
which was planned and founded during the reign of William the Fourth, was opened in the reign
of Queen Victoria, and will bear down to posterity the name of its architect, Sir Charles Barry.

Before leaving this subject it is of interest to note that the question of providing accommodation
for ladies desiring to listen to the debates in the House of Commons {273} was brought up more
than once during the reign of William the Fourth.  Miss Martineau, in her "History of the Thirty
Years' Peace," makes grave complaint of the manner in which the proposal for the admission
of ladies to hear the debates was treated alike by the legislators who favored and by those
who resisted the proposition.  The whole subject, she appears to think, was treated as a huge
joke.  One set of members advocated the admission of ladies on the ground, among other reasons,
that their presence in the House of Commons would tend to keep the legislators sober, and prevent
them from garnishing their speeches with unseemly expressions.  Another set stood out against
the proposal on the ground that if ladies were allowed to sit in a gallery in sight of the
members, the result would be that the representatives would cease to pay any real attention
to the business of debate, and would occupy themselves chiefly in studying the faces and the
dresses of the fair visitors, and trying to interchange glances with the newly admitted spectators.

The conditions under which ladies may be permitted to listen to the debates in the House of
Commons form a subject of something like periodical discussion up to the present day.  There
is, as everybody knows, a certain number of seats set apart behind the Press gallery in the
House of Commons for the accommodation of women, who are admitted by orders which members can
obtain who are successful in a balloting process which takes place a week in advance.  About
twenty members only out of more than six hundred can win two seats each for any one sitting
of the House, and no member can approach the ballot for at least a week after he has accomplished
a success.  The Ladies' Gallery holds only a very small number of women, and it is jealously
screened by a gilded grating something like that through which the women of an Eastern potentate's
household are permitted to gaze upon the stage from their box in the theatre.

It will perhaps be news to some readers to hear that this ladies' gallery, such as it is, is
technically not within the precincts of the House of Commons at all.  It is not an {274} institution
of the House, nor does it come under the rules of the House, nor is it recognized by the authorities
of the House.  It is there, as a matter of fact, but it is not supposed to be there, and the
Speaker of the House, who is omnipotent over all other parts of the chamber, has no control
over the occupants of that gilded cage, and is technically assumed to be ignorant of their
presence.  The Speaker can, on proper occasions, order strangers "to withdraw" from all the
other galleries set apart for the use of outsiders, but he has no power over the ladies who
sit in the gallery high above his chair.  It has even happened that when subjects had, as a
matter of necessity, to be discussed in the House of Commons which the Speaker did not consider
quite suitable for an audience of both sexes, he has sent a private and unofficial intimation
to the Ladies' Gallery that it would, in his opinion, be more seemly if its occupants were
to withdraw.  But on some occasions a few of the ladies declined to withdraw, and the Speaker
had no power to enforce his advice, seeing that, technically, there was no Ladies' Gallery
within his jurisdiction.  Some time, no doubt, the House of Commons will adopt more reasonable
regulations, and will recognize the right of women to be treated as rational creatures, as
members of the community, as citizens, and allowed to sit, as men do, in an open gallery, and
listen to the debates which must always more or less concern their own interests.  It is a
curious fact that the galleries and other parts of the House of Lords to which women have admission
are open to the public gaze just as are those parts of the House in which male strangers are
permitted to listen to the debates of the peers.

[Sidenote: 1835--The Orange Associations]

In the year 1835 the public mind of these countries was much surprised, and even startled,
by the discovery, or what at least seemed to be the discovery, of a great and portentous plot
against the established order of succession to the throne.  This plot was declared to be carried
on by the Orange societies which had for many years been growing up in Great Britain and Ireland,
and throughout many of the colonies and dependencies.  This Orange {275} organization began
in the North of Ireland, and was originally intended to crush out the Catholic associations
which were then coming into existence all over Ireland for the political and religious emancipation
of the Roman Catholics, and for strengthening the national cause in the Irish Parliament. 
There is so little to be said in defence, or even in excuse, of the Orange organization in
its earlier years that it seems only fair to admit the possibility of its having been seriously
intended, in the beginning, for the defence of Great Britain against an Irish rebellion fomented
and supported by France.

The Orange associations took their title from the name of the royal house which had given William
the Third as a sovereign to England, and the name of Orange was understood to illustrate its
hostility to all Jacobite plots and schemes, which were naturally assumed to have the countenance
and the favor of England's foreign enemies.  We have seen already, in the course of this history,
how the Orange societies acted before the rebellion of '98 in Ireland, and how orange and green
became the rival colors of those who denounced and those who supported every Irish national
movement.  When the rebellion was suppressed, and Grattan's Parliament was extinguished, the
Orange associations were not in the least disposed to admit that their work had been accomplished
and that there was no further need for their active existence.  On the contrary, they increased
their efforts to spread their power all over the country, and, claiming for themselves the
credit of having been a main influence in the suppression of the Irish rebellion, they appealed
for the support of all loyal Englishmen to increase their numbers and strengthen their hands.
Orangeism, which had at first only been known in Ireland, began to spread widely throughout
Great Britain.  Orange Lodges were everywhere formed; Orange Grand Masters were appointed;
a whole vocabulary of Orange titles, passwords, and phrases was invented; a complete hierarchy
of Orange officialism was created, and an invisible network of Orangeism held the members of
the organization together.  The Orange conspiracy, if {276} we may call it so, had been spreading
its ramifications energetically during the later years of George the Fourth's reign, and had
succeeded in obtaining the countenance, and indeed the active support, of many peers, of at
least some bishops, and even of certain members of the royal family.  The Duke of York, who
at that time stood nearest in the succession to the throne, was a patron of the societies,
and was invited to become Grand Master of the whole organization.  The invitation would in
all probability have been accepted if the Duke had not been assured, on the most authoritative
advice, that a secret organization of such a nature was distinctly an illegal body.  When the
Duke died, and it seemed all but certain that the next King of England must be his brother
William, Duke of Clarence, the Orange lodges transferred their allegiance to the Duke of Cumberland,
who consented to become their Grand Master.

[Sidenote: 1835--Wellington and the British Crown]

The Duke of Cumberland, as we have already seen, was a Tory of the most extreme order; an inveterate
enemy to every kind of reform and every progressive movement, a man who was not merely unpopular
but thoroughly detested among all classes who valued political freedom, religious liberty,
and the spread of education.  Soon after William the Fourth's accession to the throne a new
impulse was given to Orangeism by the King's yielding to the demand for popular reform, and
by the measures and the movements which began to follow the passing of Lord Grey's Reform Bill.
The Orangemen all over these countries then began to look upon the Duke of Cumberland as their
natural leader, and there can be little doubt that in the minds of many of them, in the minds
of some of the most influential among them, there was growing up the wild hope that the Duke
of Cumberland might become King of England.  The Orange lodges became a vast secret organization
with signs and passwords, a mysterious political confraternity, the Grand Master of which was
a sort of head centre, to adopt a phrase belonging to a more modern conspiracy, and performing,
indeed, something like the part which Continental Freemasonry at one time {277} aspired to
play.  The Orange lodges in Great Britain and Ireland swelled in numbers until they had more
than three hundred thousand members solemnly and secretly sworn to obey all the orders of the
leaders.  More than that, the emissaries of the Orange lodges contrived to make their influence
widely felt in the Army, and it became clear afterwards that a large number of soldiers were
sworn confederates of the association.

Some of the explanations which were afterwards given to account for the sudden spread of Orangeism
might well appear incredible at first to an intelligent reader of our day not acquainted with
this singular chapter of history.  But it was afterwards made perfectly certain that a large
number of credulous persons were prevailed upon to join the Orange ranks by the positive assurance
that the Duke of Wellington had formed the determination to seize the crown of England and
to put it on his own head, and that the Duke of Cumberland was the only man who could save
the realm from this treasonable enterprise.  It seems hardly possible now to understand that
there could have been one human creature in England silly and ignorant enough to believe the
Duke of Wellington capable of so preposterous and so wicked a scheme.  Lord John Russell has
left it on record that when he visited Napoleon in his exile at Elba, the fallen Emperor, during
the course of a long conversation, expressed his strong belief that Wellington would seize
the crown of England.  Lord John endeavored to convince him that such an idea went entirely
outside the limits of sober reality; but Napoleon refused to be convinced, and blandly put
the question aside with the manner of one who knows better but does not particularly care to
impress his opinion on unwilling ears.  One can easily understand how such an idea might come
into the mind of Napoleon, who knew little or nothing about the actual conditions of English
political and social life, and who had experience of his own to demonstrate the possibility
of a great military conqueror becoming at once the ruler of a State. But it seems hard indeed
to understand how any sane Englishman could have believed that {278} the simple, loyal, unselfish
Duke of Wellington could allow such an idea to enter his mind for a moment, or could see his
way to make it a reality even if he did entertain it. Yet it cannot be doubted that numbers
of Englishmen were induced to join Orange lodges by the positive assurance that thus only could
they save the State from Wellington's daring ambition.

[Sidenote: 1836--Dissolution of the Orange lodges]

One of the principal instruments of the Orange organization was a certain Colonel Fairman,
who held an important position in what may be called its military hierarchy, and was undoubtedly
at one time intrusted by the Duke of Cumberland with the fullest authority to act as the emissary
of the Grand Master to make known his will and convey his orders.  Whether the Duke of Cumberland
ever really entertained the project ascribed to him of seizing the crown for himself and shutting
out the Princess Victoria can, in all probability, never be known as a certainty; but there
can be no question that his actions often justified such a belief, and that many of his most
devoted Orange followers looked up to him as the resolute hero of such a project to save England
from Whigs and Liberals, and Roman Catholics, and mob orators, and petticoat government, and
all other such enemies to the good old state of things as established by the wisdom of our
ancestors and the Act of Settlement.  The whole question was raised in the House of Commons
during the session of 1835 by Joseph Hume, the consistent and persevering advocate of sound
economic doctrine, of political freedom, of peace, retrenchment, and reform.  Hume obtained
the appointment of a committee to inquire into the whole subject, and the committee had no
great difficulty in finding out that Colonel Fairman had been carrying on, with or without
the consent or authority of his Grand Master the Duke of Cumberland, what must be called a
treasonable conspiracy through the Orange lodges and even through Orangemen who were actually
serving in the King's Army.  In 1836 Hume brought up the question once again and obtained so
much support from Lord John Russell, then acting as Leader of the Government in the House of
Commons, that {279} an address was unanimously voted to the King calling on him to proclaim
the condemnation of the Orange conspiracy. The Duke of Cumberland disclaimed all treasonable
purposes, and declared that many of the steps taken by Fairman and other Orange emissaries
had been taken without his orders and even without his knowledge.  Fairman disappeared from
the scene when the crisis seemed to become too serious for his personal convenience, and one
of the Orange emissaries, against whom a prosecution was to be instituted, was removed by a
sudden death from the reach of the criminal law.  The Duke of Cumberland announced that he
had already, of his own inspiration, ordered the dissolution of the Orange lodges.  The King,
in his reply to the address in the House of Commons, declared himself entirely in accordance
with the resolutions of the House, and thus the whole conspiracy came to an end, and the Government
thought it well to allow the subject to pass into obscurity without further action.

This was the end of the Orange organization, as it was known in the days of William the Fourth.
At a later date Orangeism was again revived, but only in the form which it still maintains,
by which it is now known to us all as a political association, openly avowing legitimate opinions
and purposes, and as fairly entitled to existence as any political club or other such organization
recognized in the movements of modern life.  The treasonable conspiracy, like many another
evil, died when it was compelled to endure the light of day.

{280}

CHAPTER LXXIX.

THE CLOSE OF A REIGN AND THE OPENING OF AN ERA.

[Sidenote: 1748-1832--Mackintosh, Malthus, and Mill]

Many lives that now belong to history had faded into history during the reign of William the
Fourth.  William Wilberforce, the great champion of every noble and philanthropic movement
known to his times, had passed from the living world which he had done so much to improve.
Wilberforce lived to see the triumph of that movement against slavery and the slave-trade which
he, more than any other of his time, had inspired and promoted.  He had been compelled by ill-health
to give up his position in Parliament for several years before his death, but he had never
withdrawn his watchful sympathy and such co-operation as it was in his power to give from any
cause to which he had consecrated his life.  His name will always be illustrious in English
history as that of one who loved his fellow-men and who gave expression to that love in every
act and effort of his public and private career.  Jeremy Bentham, one of the greatest of modern
thinkers, the founder of more than one school of political and economic doctrine, a man whose
influence on human thought is never likely to pass altogether away, died in June, 1832.  Bentham's
principle, the greatest happiness of the greatest number, has often been narrowly and unfairly
judged, but it may be doubted whether a sounder theory of political and social government has
ever come out of the mere wisdom of man.  The phrase utilitarianism, which came into use as
the summary of his teaching, has often been misunderstood and misapplied, and perhaps some
excuse was found for the misinterpretation of his meaning in his decision that his dead body
should be given up for the purpose of anatomy and not buried in earth to be of service {281}
only to the worms.  Many of us have seen the skeleton of Jeremy Bentham clothed in his habit
as he lived in a room of that University College which he helped to make a success.

Sir James Mackintosh brought his noble career to a close during this reign.  Mackintosh had
been historian, philosopher, and politician, and, like Macaulay, he had rendered great services
in India as well as in England.  Like Macaulay also, he had been listened to with the deepest
interest whenever he addressed the House of Commons, although his gifts and his temperament
seemed suited rather for the study than for Parliamentary life.  Another man whose death belongs
to the reign of William the Fourth, whose teachings were at one time the occasion for incessant
controversy--and indeed caused most controversy where they were least understood--was Thomas
Robert Malthus.  In many classes of readers the name of Malthus came to be associated for a
while with the idea of some strange and cruel doctrine which taught that wars and pestilences
and other calamities that have the effect of sweeping redundant populations off the world are
really good things in themselves, to be encouraged by beneficent legislation.  It is hardly
necessary to say now that nothing could be more narrow and even more perverse than this interpretation
of Malthus's philosophy.  Another of the teaching minds which passed from the contemplation
of earthly subjects during the reign was that of James Mill, the historian of British India
and the promulgator of great doctrines in political economy.  James Mill, like Edmund Burke,
had studied India thoroughly, and come to understand it as few men had done who had lived there
for years and years, although, like Burke, he had never been within sight of the shores of
Hindustan.  Mill divined India as Talleyrand said that Alexander Hamilton, the American statesman
and companion of George Washington, had divined Europe.  The elder Mill would no doubt have
gladly endorsed the saying, and it may be assumed that history has given its judgment in the
same way, but history will certainly maintain the fame of the father as well as the fame of
the son.  A man of a very different order from any of these we have just mentioned, but who
has made a reputation of his own in literature as well as in politics, closed his career within
the same reign.  We have already spoken in this volume of William Cobbett's command of simple,
strong English, which made his prose style hardly inferior to that of Swift himself.  Indeed,
one of the most distinguished authors of the present day, a man who has made a name in political
life as well as in literature, has been heard to contend with earnestness that, as a writer
of pure, strong, idiomatic English, Cobbett might be accounted the rival of Swift.  The great
engineer, Telford, and the really gifted and genuine, although eccentric and opinionated, physician,
Dr. Abernethy, were among the celebrities whose deaths rather than their works belong to the
time when William the Fourth was King.

[Sidenote: 1754-1834--Coleridge and Hannah More]

Poetry, romance, and art suffered many heavy losses during the same time. We have already chronicled
the death of Walter Scott.  One who had known him and had been kindly welcomed by him, James
Hogg, the Ettrick Shepherd, died three years after Scott in 1835.  The death of George Crabbe
was one of the memorable events of the reign.  Crabbe might well be described in the words
which a later singer set out for his own epitaph, as "the poet of the poor."  Crabbe pictured
the struggles, the sufferings, the occasional gleams of happiness which are common to the lives
of the poor with a realism as vigorous and as vivid as the prose of Charles Dickens himself
could show, and he had touches here and there of exquisitely tender poetic feeling which were
not unworthy of Keats or Wordsworth.  Nothing was nobler in the life of Burke than his early
appreciation and generous support of Crabbe.  Hannah More died in 1833. The fame of this remarkable
woman has somewhat faded of late years, and even the {283} most successful of her writings
find probably but few readers among the general public.  She has, however, won for herself
a distinct place in history, not less by her life itself than by her work in various fields
of literature.  In her early days she had been an associate of Samuel Johnson, Burke, and Goldsmith,
and Reynolds, and she had known Macaulay from his childhood.  She was always a writer with
a purpose, whether she wrote a religious tract or an ethical essay, a tragedy or a novel. 
She always strove to be a teacher, and the intellectual gifts with which she had been endowed
were only valued by her in so far as they enabled her to serve the education and the moral
progress of humanity.  "The rapt One of the godlike forehead, the heaven-eyed creature," as
Wordsworth described Samuel Taylor Coleridge, died in 1834.  Coleridge belonged to an order
of intellect far higher than that to which Crabbe or Hannah More had any claim.  He was indeed
a man of genius in all but the very highest meaning of the word.  He was poet, philosopher,
teacher, and critic, and in each department, had he worked in that alone, he must have won
renown.  Perhaps if he had not worked in so many fields he might have obtained even a more
exalted position than that which history must assuredly assign to him.  His influence as a
philosopher is probably fading now, although he unquestionably inspired whole schools of philosophic
thought, and the world remembers him rather as the author of "The Ancient Mariner" than as
the metaphysical student and teacher.  As a critic, in the highest sense of the word, he will
always have the praise that should belong to the first who aroused the attention of Englishmen
to the great new school of thoughtful criticism which was growing up in Germany under the influence
of Lessing and of Goethe.  He would have deserved fame if only for his translations of some
of Schiller's noblest dramas.  It has been justly said that Coleridge by his successful efforts
to spread over England the influence of the higher German criticism did much to restore Shakespeare
to that position as head of the world's modern literature from which English {284} criticism
and English tastes had done so much to displace him since the days of Dryden.

[Sidenote: 1775-1836--Mrs. Siddons and Edmund Kean]

The death of Coleridge was soon followed by that of Charles Lamb, and, indeed, Coleridge's
death may have had some effect in hastening that of his dear and devoted friend.  In the same
poem from which we have just quoted the lines that picture Coleridge, Wordsworth tells how
"Lamb, the frolic and the gentle, has vanished from his lonely hearth."  Lamb was the most
exquisite of essayists and letter-writers, a man whose delicate humor, playful irony, and happy
gift of picturesque phrase claim for him true poetic genius.  The present generation has probably
but a faint memory of Felicia Hemans, whose verse had at one time an immense popularity among
all readers with whom sweetness of sentiment, musical ease, fluency of verse, and simple tenderness
of feeling were enough to constitute poetic art.  She, too, died not long before the close
of the reign.  Many men who had won wide fame as pulpit orators and as religious teachers of
various orders marked by their deaths as well as by their lives this chapter of history.  Rowland
Hill was one of these, the great popular preacher, who flung aside conventionalities, and was
ready to preach anywhere if he had hope of gathering an audience around him whom he could move
and teach, whether he spoke from the pulpit of a church or a chapel, or from a platform in
the open air, or in the midst of a crowd with no platform at all.  Another was Robert Hall,
admittedly one of the most eloquent preachers of modern times.  Yet another was Adam Clarke,
the author of the celebrated "Commentary on the Holy Scriptures."  Of course the fame of these
men and women does not belong in the fuller sense to the reign of William the Fourth.  Some
of them had wellnigh done their work before the reign began, none of them can be said to have
won any new celebrity during the reign.  Their names are introduced here because their deaths
were events of the moment and lend, in that way, additional importance to the reign's history.

The fame of Mrs. Siddons can hardly be said to belong in any sense to the days when William
the Fourth sat on {285} the English throne, for she had retired from the stage many years before
his accession, and only appeared in public on rare occasions and for some charitable object;
but she died within the reign, and it must therefore find another distinction by its association
with her name.  Two years later died Edmund Kean, who also may be said to have closed his career
as an actor before the reign had begun.  Of the fame that is won on the boards of a theatre
posterity can only judge by hearsay.  The poet, the novelist, the historian, the philosopher,
the painter, the sculptor, leave their works always living behind them, and the later generation
has the same materials on which to form its judgment as were open to the world when the author
or artist had just completed his work.  Even the orator can bequeath to all ages the words
he has spoken, although they are no longer to be accompanied by the emphasis of his gesture
and accentuated by the music of his voice.  Of the actor and the actress who have long passed
away we can know nothing but what their contemporaries have told us, and can form no judgment
of our own.  We can hardly be wrong, however, in regarding Mrs. Siddons as by far the greatest
tragic actress who has ever appeared on the English stage, and Edmund Kean as the greatest
actor of Shakespearian tragedy whom England has seen since the days of Garrick.  In mentioning
these two names, we must also be reminded of the name of Charles Mathews the elder, an actor
of extraordinary versatility and genuine dramatic power, who is, however, best remembered as
the originator of the style of theatrical entertainment which may be described as the "At Home"
performance, in which he probably never had a rival.  Many of us can still remember his yet
more gifted son, the younger Charles Mathews, the incomparable light comedian of a later day.

