Horn (King Horn, Horn-Child and Maiden Rimnilde, &c.) is somewhat more courtly in its general
outlines, and has less of the folk-tale about it; but it also has connections with Denmark,
and it turns upon treachery, as indeed do nearly all the romances. Horn, son of a certain King
Murray, is, in consequence of a raid of heathen in ships, orphaned and exiled in his childhood
across the sea, where he finds an asylum in the house of King Aylmer of Westerness. His love
for Aylmer's daughter Rimenhild and hers for him (he is the most beautiful of men), the faithfulness
of his friend Athulf (who has to undergo the very trying experience of being made violent love
to by Rimenhild under the impression that he is Horn), and the treachery of his friend Fikenild
(who nearly succeeds in making the princess his own), defray the chief interest of the story,
which is not very long. The good steward Athelbrus also plays a great part, which is noticeable,
because the stewards of Romances are generally bad. The rhymed couplets of this poem are composed
of shorter lines than those of Havelok. They allow themselves the syllabic licence of alliterative
verse proper, though there is even less alliteration than in Havelok, and they vary from five
to eight syllables, though five and six are the commonest. The poem, indeed, in this respect
occupies a rather peculiar position. Yet it is all the more valuable as showing yet another
phase of the change.

The first really charming literature in English has, however, still to be mentioned: and this
is to be found in the volume--little more than a pamphlet--edited fifty years ago for the Percy
Society (March 1, 1842) by Thomas Wright, under the title of Specimens of Lyric Poetry composed
in England in the Reign of Edward the First, from MS. 2253 Harl. in the British Museum. The
first three poems are in French, of the well-known and by this time far from novel trouvère
character, of which those of Thibaut of Champagne are the best specimens. The fourth--

    "Middel-erd for mon wes mad,"

is English, and is interesting as copying not the least intricate of
the trouvère measures--an eleven-line stanza of eight sevens or
sixes, rhymed ab, ab, ab, ab, c, b, c; but moral-religious in tone
and much alliterated. The fifth, also English, is anapæstic tetrameter
heavily alliterated, and mono-rhymed for eight verses, with the stanza
made up to ten by a couplet on another rhyme. It is not very
interesting.
    An hendy hap ichabbe y-hent,
    Ichot from hevine it is me sent,
    From alle wymmen my love is lent
      Ant lyht on Alisoun.

    On hew hire her is fayr ynoh
      Hire browe bronne, hire eye blake;
    With lovsom chere he on me loh;
      With middel small ant wel y-make;
    Bott he me wille to hire take,
    For to buen hire owen make,
    Long to lyven ichulle forsake,
      Ant feye fallen a-doun.
        An hendy hap, &c.

    Nihtes when I wenke ant wake,
      For-thi myn wonges waxeth won;
    Levedi, al for thine sake
      Longinge is ylent me on.
    In world is non so wytor mon
    That al hire bounté telle con;
    Heir swyre is whittere than the swon
      Ant fayrest may in toune.
        An hendy hap, &c.

    Icham for wouyng al for-wake,
      Wery so water in wore
    Lest any reve me my make
      Ychabbe y-[y]yrned [y]ore.
    Betere is tholien whyle sore
    Then mournen evermore.
      Geynest under gore,
        Herkene to my roune.
          An hendy hap, &c."

The next, "With longyng y am lad," is pretty, though less so: and is in ten-line stanzas of
sixes, rhymed a a b, a a b, b a a b. Those of VIII. are twelve-lined in eights, rhymed ab,
ab, ab, ab, c, d, c, d; but it is observable that there is some assonance here instead of pure
rhyme. IX. is in the famous romance stanza of six or rather twelve lines, à la Sir Thopas;
X. in octaves of eights alternately rhymed with an envoy quatrain; XI. (a very pretty one)
in a new metre, rhymed a a a b a, b. And this variety continues after a fashion which it would
be tedious to particularise further. The "cry" of English lyric is on this northern wind at
last; and it shall never fail afterwards.

[Sidenote: The prosody of the modern languages.]

[Sidenote: Historical retrospect.]

This seems to be the best place to deal, not merely with the form of English lyric in itself,
but with the general subject of the prosody as well of English as of the other modern literary
languages. A very great[100] deal has been written, with more and with less learning, with
ingenuity greater or smaller, on the origins of rhyme, on the source of the decasyllabic and
other staple lines and stanzas; and, lastly, on the general system of modern as opposed to
ancient scansion. Much of this has been the result of really careful study, and not a little
of it the result of distinct acuteness; but it has suffered on the whole from the supposed
need of some new theory, and from an unwillingness to accept plain and obvious facts. These
facts, or the most important of them, may be summarised as follows: The prosody of a language
will necessarily vary according to the pronunciation and composition of that language; but
there are certain general principles of prosody which govern all languages possessing a certain
kinship. These general principles were, for the Western branches of the Aryan tongues, very
early discovered and formulated by the Greeks, being later adjusted to somewhat stiffer rules--to
compensate for less force of poetic genius, or perhaps merely because licence was not required--by
the Latins. Towards the end of the classical literary period, however, partly the increasing
importance of the Germanic and other non-Greek and non-Latin elements in the Empire, partly
those inexplicable organic changes which come from time to time, broke up this system. Rhyme
appeared, no one knows quite how, or why, or whence, and at the same time, though the general
structure of metres was not very much altered, the quantity of individual syllables appears
to have undergone a complete change. Although metres quantitative in scheme continued to be
written, they were written, as a rule, with more or less laxity; and though rhyme was sometimes
adapted to them in Latin, it was more frequently used with a looser syllabic arrangement, retaining
the divisional characteristics of the older prosody, but neglecting quantity, the strict rules
of elision, and so forth.

[Footnote 100: It is sufficient to mention here Guest's famous English Rhythms (ed. Skeat,
1882), a book which at its first appearance in 1838 was no doubt a revelation, but which carries
things too far; Dr Schipper's Grundriss der Englischen Metrik (Wien, 1895), and for foreign
matters M. Gaston Paris's chapter in his Littérature Française au Moyen Age. I do not agree
with any of them, but I have a profound respect for all.]

[Sidenote: Anglo-Saxon prosody.]

On the other hand, some of the new Teutonic tongues which were thus brought into contact with
Latin, and with which Latin was brought into contact, had systems of prosody of their own,
based on entirely different principles. The most elaborate of these probably, and the only
one from which we have distinct remains of undoubtedly old matter in considerable quantities,
is Anglo-Saxon, though Icelandic runs it close. A detailed account of the peculiarities of
this belongs to the previous volume: it is sufficient to say here that its great characteristic
was alliteration, and that accent played a large part, to the exclusion both of definite quantity
and of syllabic identity or equivalence.

[Sidenote: Romance prosody.]

While these were the states of things with regard to Latin on the one hand, and to the tongues
most separated from Latin on the other, the Romance languages, or daughters of Latin, had elaborated
or were elaborating, by stages which are almost entirely hidden from us, middle systems, of
which the earliest, and in a way the most perfect, is that of Provençal, followed by Northern
French and Italian, the dialects of the Spanish Peninsula being a little behindhand in elaborate
verse. The three first-named tongues seem to have hit upon the verse of ten or eleven syllables,
which later crystallised itself into ten for French and eleven for Italian, as their staple
measure.[101] Efforts have been made to father this directly on some classical original, and
some authorities have even been uncritical enough to speak of the connection--this or that--having
been "proved" for these verses or others. No such proof has been given, and none is possible.
What is certain, and alone certain, is that whereas the chief literary metre of the last five
centuries of Latin had been dactylic and trisyllabic, this, the chief metre of the daughter
tongues, and by-and-by almost their only one, was disyllabic--iambic, or trochaic, as the case
may be, but generally iambic. Rhyme became by degrees an invariable or almost invariable accompaniment,
and while quantity, strictly speaking, almost disappeared (some will have it that it quite
disappeared from French), a syllabic uniformity more rigid than any which had prevailed, except
in the case of lyric measures like the Alcaic, became the rule. Even elision was very greatly
restricted, though cæsura was pretty strictly retained, and an additional servitude was imposed
by the early adoption in French of the fixed alternation of "masculine" and "feminine" rhymes--that
is to say, of rhymes with, and rhymes without, the mute e.

[Footnote 101: Vide Dante, De Vulgari Eloquio.]

[Sidenote: English prosody.]

[Sidenote: The later alliteration.]

But the prosody of the Romance tongues is perfectly simple and intelligible, except in the
one crux of the question how it came into being, and what part "popular" poetry played in it.
We find it, almost from the first, full-blown: and only minor refinements or improvements are
introduced afterwards. With English prosody it is very different.[102] As has been said, the
older prosody itself, with the older verse, seems to have to a great extent died out even before
the Conquest, and what verse was written in the alliterative measures afterwards was of a feeble
and halting kind. Even when, as the authors of later volumes of this series will have to show,
alliterative verse was taken up with something like a set purpose during the fourteenth and
fifteenth centuries, its character was wholly changed, and though some very good work was written
in it, it was practically all literary exercise. It frequently assumed regular stanza-forms,
the lines also frequently fell into regular quantitative shapes, such as the heroic, the Alexandrine,
and the tetrameter. Above all, the old strict and accurate combination of a limited amount
of alliteration, jealously adjusted to words important in sense and rhythm, was exchanged for
a profusion of alliterated syllables, often with no direct rhythmical duty to pay, and constantly
leading to mere senseless and tasteless jingle, if not to the positive coining of fantastic
or improper locutions to get the "artful aid."

[Footnote 102: What is said here of English applies with certain modifications to German, though
the almost entire loss of Old German poetry and the comparatively late date of Middle make
the process less striking and more obscure, and the greater talent of the individual imitators
of French interferes more with the process of insensible shaping and growth. German prosody,
despite the charm of its lyric measures, has never acquired the perfect combination of freedom
and order which we find in English, as may be seen by comparing the best blank verse of the two.]

[Sidenote: The new verse.]

Meanwhile the real prosody of English had been elaborated, in the usual blending fashion of
the race, by an intricate, yet, as it happens, an easily traceable series of compromises and
naturalisations. By the end of the twelfth century, as we have seen, rhyme was creeping in
to supersede alliteration, and a regular arrangement of elastic syllabic equivalents or strict
syllabic values was taking the place of the irregular accented lengths. It does not appear
that the study of the classics had anything directly to do with this: it is practically certain
that the influence on the one hand of Latin hymns and the Church services, and on the other
of French poetry, had very much.

[Sidenote: Rhyme and syllabic equivalence.]

Rhyme is to the modern European ear so agreeable, if not so indispensable, an ornament of verse,
that, once heard, it is sure to creep in, and can only be expelled by deliberate and unnatural
crotchet from any but narrative and dramatic poetry. On the other hand, it is almost inevitable
that when rhyme is expected, the lines which it tips should be reduced to an equal or at any
rate an equivalent length. Otherwise the expectation of the ear--that the final ring should
be led up to by regular and equable rhythm--is baulked. If this is not done, as in what we
call doggerel rhyme, an effect of grotesque is universally produced, to the ruin of serious
poetic effect. With these desiderata present, though unconsciously present, before them, with
the Latin hymn-writers and the French poets for models, and with Church music perpetually starting
in their memories cadences, iambic or trochaic, dactylic or anapæstic, to which to set their
own verse, it is not surprising that English poets should have accompanied the rapid changes
of their language itself with parallel rapidity of metrical innovation. Quantity they observed
loosely--quantity in modern languages is always loose: but it does not follow that they ignored
it altogether.

[Sidenote: Accent and quantity.]

Those who insist that they did ignore it, and who painfully search for verses of so many "accents,"
for "sections," for "pauses," and what not, are confronted with difficulties throughout the
whole course of English poetry: there is hardly a page of that brilliant, learned, instructive,
invaluable piece of wrong-headedness, Dr Guest's English Rhythms, which does not bristle with
them. But at no time are these difficulties so great as during our present period, and especially
at the close of it. Let any man who has no "prize to fight," no thesis to defend, take any
characteristic piece of Anglo-Saxon poetry and "Alison," place them side by side, read them
aloud together, scan them carefully with the eye, compare each separately and both together
with as many other examples of poetic arrangement as he likes. He must, I think, be hopelessly
blinded by prejudice if he does not come to the conclusion that there is a gulf between the
systems of which these two poems are examples--that if the first is "accentual," "sectional,"
and what not, then these same words are exactly not the words which ought to be applied to
the second.[103] And he will further see that with "Alison" there is not the slightest difficulty
whatever, but that, on the contrary, it is the natural and all but inevitable thing to do to
scan the piece according to classical laws, allowing only much more licence of "common" syllables--common
in themselves and by position--than in Latin, and rather more than in Greek.

[Footnote 103: Of course there is plenty of alliteration in "Alison." That ornament is too
grateful to the English ear ever to have ceased or to be likely to cease out of English poetry.
But it has ceased to possess any metrical value; it has absolutely nothing to do with the structure
of the line.]

[Sidenote: The gain of form.]

Yet another conclusion may perhaps be risked, and that is that this change of prosody was either
directly caused by, or in singular coincidence was associated with, a great enlargement of
the range and no slight improvement of the quality of poetry. Anglo-Saxon verse at its best
has grandeur, mystery, force, a certain kind of pathos. But it is almost entirely devoid of
sweetness, of all the lighter artistic attractions, of power to represent other than religious
passion, of adaptability to the varied uses of lyric. All these additional gifts, and in no
slight measure, have now been given; and there is surely an almost fanatical hatred of form
in the refusal to connect the gain with those changes, in vocabulary first, in prosody secondly,
which have been noted. For there is not only the fact, but there is a more than plausible reason
for the fact. The alliterative accentual verse of indefinite length is obviously unsuited for
all the lighter, and for some of the more serious, purposes of verse. Unless it is at really
heroic height (and at this height not even Shakespeare can keep poetry invariably) it must
necessarily be flat, awkward, prosaic, heavy, all which qualities are the worst foes of the
Muses. The new equipments may not have been indispensable to the poet's soaring--they may not
be the greater wings of his song, the mighty pinions that take him beyond Space and Time into
Eternity and the Infinite. But they are most admirable talaria, ankle-winglets enabling him
to skim and scud, to direct his flight this way and that, to hover as well as to tower, even
to run at need as well as to fly.

That a danger was at hand, the danger of too great restriction in the syllabic direction, has
been admitted. The greatest poet of the fourteenth century in England--the greatest, for the
matter of that, from the beginning till the sixteenth--went some way in this path, and if Chaucer's
English followers had been men of genius we might have been sorely trammelled. Fortunately
Lydgate and Occleve and Hawes showed the dangers rather than the attractions of strictness,
and the contemporary practice of alliterative irregulars kept alive the appetite for liberty.
But at this time--at our time--it was restriction, regulation, quantification, metrical arrangement,
that English needed; and it received them.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: The "accent" theory.]

These remarks are of course not presented as a complete account, even in summary, of English,
much less of European prosody. They are barely more than the heads of such a summary, or than
indications of the line which the inquiry might, and in the author's view should, take. Perhaps
they may be worked out--or rather the working out of them may be published--more fully hereafter.
But for the present they may possibly be useful as a protest against the "accent" and "stress"
theories which have been so common of late years in regard to English poetry, and which, though
not capable of being applied in quite the same fashion to the Romance languages, have had their
counterparts in attempts to decry the application of classical prosody (which has never been
very well understood on the Continent) to modern tongues. No one can speak otherwise than respectfully
of Dr Guest, whose book is certainly one of the most patient and ingenious studies of the kind
to be found in any literature, and whose erudition, at a time when such erudition needed far
greater efforts than now, cannot be too highly praised. But it is a besetting sin or disease
of Englishmen in all matters, after pooh-poohing innovation, to go blindly in for it; and I
cannot but think that Dr Guest's accentual theory, after being for years mainly neglected,
has, for years again, been altogether too greedily swallowed. It is not of course a case necessarily
of want of scholarship, or want of ear, for there are few better scholars or poets than Mr
Robert Bridges, who, though not a mere Guestite, holds theories of prosody which seem to me
even less defensible than Guest's. But it is, I think, a case of rather misguided patriotism,
which thinks it necessary to invent an English prosody for English poems.

[Sidenote: Initial fallacies.]

This is surely a mistake. Allowances in degree, in shade, in local colour, there must of course
be in prosody as in other things. The developments, typical and special, of English prosody
in the nineteenth century cannot be quite the same as those of Greek two thousand years ago,
or of French to-day. But if, as I see not the slightest reason for doubting, prosody is not
an artificially acquired art but a natural result of the natural desires, the universal organs
of humanity, it is excessively improbable that the prosodic results of nations so nearly allied
to each other, and so constantly studying each other's work, as Greeks, Romans, and modern
Europeans, should be in any great degree different. If quantity, if syllabic equivalence and
so forth, do not display themselves in Anglo-Saxon or in Icelandic, it must be remembered that
the poetry of these nations was after all comparatively small, rather isolated, and in the
conditions of extremely early development--a childish thing to which there is not the slightest
rhyme or reason for straining ourselves to assimilate the things of manhood. That accent modified
English prosody nobody need deny; there is no doubt that the very great freedom of equivalence--which
makes it, for instance, at least theoretically possible to compose an English heroic line of
five tribrachs--and the immense predominance of common syllables in the language, are due in
some degree to a continuance of accentual influence.

[Sidenote: And final perversities thereof.]

But to go on from this, as Dr Guest and some of his followers have done, to the subjection
of the whole invaluable vocabulary of classical prosody to a sort of præmunire, to hold up
the hands in horror at the very name of a tribrach, and exhibit symptoms of catalepsy at the
word catalectic--to ransack the dictionary for unnatural words or uses of words like "catch,"
and "stop," and "pause," where a perfectly clear and perfectly flexible terminology is ready
to your hand--this does seem to me in another sense a very childish thing indeed, and one that
cannot be too soon put away. It is no exaggeration to say that the extravagances, the unnatural
contortions of scansion, the imputations of irregularity and impropriety on the very greatest
poets with which Dr Guest's book swarms, must force themselves on any one who studies that
book thoroughly and impartially. When theory leads to the magisterial indorsement of "gross
fault" on some of the finest passages of Shakespeare and Milton, because they "violate" Dr
Guest's privy law of "the final pause"; when we are told that "section 9," as Dr Guest is pleased
to call that admirable form of "sixes," the anapæst followed by two iambs,[104] one of the
great sources of music in the ballad metre, is "a verse which has very little to recommend
it"; when one of Shakespeare's secrets, the majestic full stop before the last word of the
line, is black-marked as "opposed to every principle of accentual rhythm," then the thing becomes
not so much outrageous as absurd. Prosody respectfully and intelligently attempting to explain
how the poets produce their best things is useful and agreeable: when it makes an arbitrary
theory beforehand, and dismisses the best things as bad because they do not agree therewith,
it becomes a futile nuisance. And I believe that there is no period of our literature which,
when studied, will do more to prevent or correct such fatuity than this very period of Early
Middle English.

[Footnote 104: His instance is Burns's--

    "Like a rogue | for for | gerie."

[Sidenote: Position of Germany.]

It must have been already noticed that one main reason for the unsurpassed literary interest
of this present period is that almost all the principal European nations contribute, in their
different ways, elements to that interest. The contribution is not in all cases one of positive
literary production, of so much matter of the first value actually added to the world's library.
But in some cases it is; and in the instance to which we come at present it is so in a measure
approached by no other country except France and perhaps Iceland. Nor is Germany,[105] as every
other country except Iceland may be said to be, wholly a debtor or vassal to France herself.
Partly she is so; of the three chief divisions of Middle High German poetry (for prose here
practically does not count), the folk-epic, the "art-epic," as the Germans themselves not very
happily call it, and the lyric--the second is always, and the third to no small extent, what
might punningly be called in copyhold of France. But even the borrowed material is treated
with such intense individuality of spirit that it almost acquires independence; and part of
the matter, as has been said, is not borrowed at all.

[Footnote 105: The most accessible History of German Literature is that of Scherer (English
translation, 2 vols., Oxford, 1886), a book of fair information and with an excellent bibliography,
but not very well arranged, and too full of extra-literary matter. Carlyle's great Nibelungenlied
Essay (Essays, vol. iii.) can never be obsolete save in unimportant matters; that which follows
on Early German Literature is good, but less good. Mr Gosse's Northern Studies (1879) contains
a very agreeable paper on Walther von der Vogelweide. The Wagnerites have naturally of late
years dealt much with Wolfram von Eschenbach, but seldom from a literary point of view.]

[Sidenote: Merit of its poetry.]

It has been pointed out that for some curious reason French literary critics, not usually remarkable
for lack of national vanity, have been by no means excessive in their laudations of the earlier
literature of their country. The opposite is the case with those of Germany, and the rather
extravagant patriotism of some of their expressions may perhaps have had a bad effect on some
foreign readers. It cannot, for instance, be otherwise than disgusting to even rudimentary
critical feeling to be told in the same breath that the first period of German literature was
"richer in inventive genius than any that followed it," and that "nothing but fragments of
a single song[106] remain to us" from this first period--fragments, it may be added, which,
though interesting enough, can, in no possible judgment that can be called judgment, rank as
in any way first-rate poetry. So, too, the habit of comparing the Nibelungenlied to the Iliad
and Kudrun to the Odyssey (parallels not far removed from the Thucydides-and-Tennyson order)
may excite resentment. But the Middle High German verse of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries
is in itself of such interest, such variety, such charm, that if only it be approached in itself,
and not through the medium of its too officious ushers, its effect on any real taste for poetry
is undoubted.

[Footnote 106: Hildebrand and Hadubrand.]

The three divisions above sketched may very well be taken in the order given. The great folk-epics
just mentioned, with some smaller poems, such as König Rother, are almost invariably anonymous;
the translators or adaptors from the French--Gottfried von Strasburg, Hartmann von Aue, Wolfram
von Eschenbach, and others--are at least known by name, if we do not know much else about them;
and this is also the case with the Lyric poets, especially the best of them, the exquisite
singer known as Walter of the Bird-Meadow.

[Sidenote: Folk-epics--The Nibelungenlied.]

[Sidenote: The Volsunga Saga.]

It was inevitable that the whole literary energy of a nation which is commentatorial or nothing,
should be flung on such a subject as the Nibelungenlied;[107] the amount of work expended on
the subject by Germans during the century in which the poem has been known is enormous, and
might cause despair, if happily it were not for the most part negligible. The poem served as
a principal ground in the battle--not yet at an end, but now in a more or less languid condition--between
the believers in conglomerate epic, the upholders of the theory that long early poems are always
a congeries of still earlier ballads or shorter chants, and the advocates of their integral
condition. The authorship of the poem, its date, and its relation to previous work or tradition,
with all possible excursions and alarums as to sun-myths and so forth, have been discussed
ad nauseam. Literary history, as here understood, need not concern itself much about such things.
It is sufficient to say that the authorship of the Lied in its present condition is quite unknown;
that its date would appear to be about the centre of our period, or, in other words, not earlier
than the middle of the twelfth century or later than the middle of the thirteenth, and that,
as far as the subject goes, we undoubtedly have handlings of it in Icelandic (the so-called
Volsunga Saga), and still earlier verse-dealings in the Elder Edda, which are older, and probably
much older, than the German poem.[108] They are not only older, but they are different. As
a Volsung story, the interest is centred on the ancestor of Sigurd (Sigfried in the later poem),
on his acquisition of the hoard of the dwarf Andvari by slaying the dragon Fafnir, its guardian,
and on the tale of his love for the Amazon Brynhild; how by witchcraft he is beguiled to wed
instead Gudrun the daughter of Giuki, while Gunnar, Gudrun's brother, marries Brynhild by the
assistance of Sigurd himself; how the sisters-in-law quarrel, with the result that Gudrun's
brothers slay Sigurd, on whose funeral-pyre Brynhild (having never ceased to love him and wounded
herself mortally), is by her own will burnt; and how Gudrun, having married King Atli, Brynhild's
brother, achieves vengeance on her own brethren by his means. A sort of coda of the story tells
of the third marriage of Gudrun to King Jonakr, of the cruel fate of Swanhild, her daughter
by Sigurd (who was so fair that when she gazed on the wild horses that were to tread her to
death they would not harm her, and her head had to be covered ere they would do their work),
of the further fate of Swanhild's half-brothers in their effort to avenge her, and of the final
threnos and death of Gudrun herself.

[Footnote 107: Ed. Bartsch. 6th ed. Leipzig, 1886.]

[Footnote 108: For the verse originals see Vigfusson and Powell's Corpus Poeticum Boreale (Oxford,
1883), vol. i. The verse and prose alike will be found conveniently translated in a cheap little
volume of the "Camelot Library," The Volsunga Saga, by W. Morris and E. Magnusson (London, 1888).]

The author of the Nibelungenlied (or rather the "Nibelungen-Noth," for this is the older title
of the poem, which has a very inferior sequel called Die Klage) has dealt with the story very
differently. He pays no attention to the ancestry of Sifrit (Sigurd), and little to his acquisition
of the hoard, diminishes the part of Brynhild, stripping it of all romantic interest as regards
Sifrit, and very largely increases the importance of the revenge of Gudrun, now called Kriemhild.
Only sixteen of the thirty-nine "aventiuren" or "fyttes" (into which the poem in the edition
here used is divided) are allotted to the part up to and including the murder of Sifrit; the
remaining twenty-three deal with the vengeance of Kriemhild, who is herself slain just when
this vengeance is complete, the after-piece of her third marriage and the fate of Swanhild
being thus rendered impossible.

Among the idler parts of Nibelungen discussions perhaps the idlest are the attempts made by
partisans of Icelandic and German literature respectively to exalt or depress these two handlings,
each in comparison with the other. There is no real question of superiority or inferiority,
but only one of difference. The older handling, in the Volsunga Saga to some extent, but still
more in the Eddaic songs, has perhaps the finer touches of pure clear poetry in single passages
and phrases; the story of Sigurd and Brynhild has a passion which is not found in the German
version; the defeat of Fafnir and the treacherous Regin is excellent; and the wild and ferocious
story of Sinfiötli, with which the saga opens, has unmatched intensity, well brought out in
Mr Morris's splendid verse-rendering, The Story of Sigurd the Volsung.[109]

[Footnote 109: 4th edition. London, 1887.]

[Sidenote: The German version.]

But every poet has a perfect right to deal with any story as he chooses, if he makes good poetry
of it; and the poet of the Nibelungenlied is more than justified in this respect. By curtailing
the beginning, cutting off the coda above mentioned altogether, and lessening the part and
interest of Brynhild, he has lifted Kriemhild to a higher, a more thoroughly expounded, and
a more poetical position, and has made her one of the greatest heroines of epic, if not the
greatest in all literature. The Gudrun of the Norse story is found supplying the loss of one
husband with the gain of another to an extent perfectly consonant with Icelandic ideas, but
according to less insular standards distinctly damaging to her interest as a heroine; and in
revenging her brothers on Atli, after revenging Sigurd on her brothers by means of Atli, she
completely alienates all sympathy except on a ferocious and pedantic theory of blood-revenge.
The Kriemhild of the German is quite free from this drawback; and her own death comes just
when and as it should--not so much a punishment for the undue bloodthirstiness of her revenge
as an artistic close to the situation. There may be too many episodic personages--Dietrich
of Bern, for instance, has extremely little to do in this galley. But the strength, thoroughness,
and in its own savage way charm of Kriemhild's character, and the incomparable series of battles
between the Burgundian princes and Etzel's men in the later cantos--cantos which contain the
very best poetical fighting in the history of the world--far more than redeem this. The Nibelungenlied
is a very great poem; and with Beowulf (the oldest, but the least interesting on the whole),
Roland (the most artistically finished in form), and the Poem of the Cid (the cheerfullest
and perhaps the fullest of character), composes a quartette of epic with which the literary
story of the great European literary nations most appropriately begins. In bulk, dramatic completeness,
and a certain furia, the Nibelungenlied, though the youngest and probably the least original,
is the greatest of the four.

[Sidenote: Metres.]

The form, though not finished with the perfection of the French decasyllabic, is by no means
of a very uncouth description. The poem is written in quatrains, rhymed couplet and couplet,
not alternately, but evidently intended for quatrains, inasmuch as the sense frequently runs
on at the second line, but regularly stops at the fourth. The normal line of which these quatrains
are composed is a thirteen-syllabled one divided by a central pause, so that the first half
is an iambic dimeter catalectic, and the second an iambic dimeter hypercatalectic.

    "Von einer isenstangen: des gie dem helde not."

The first half sometimes varies from this norm, though not very often, the alteration usually
taking the form of the loss of the first syllable, so that the half-line consists of three
trochees. The second half is much more variable. Sometimes, in the same way as with the first,
a syllable is dropped at the opening, and the half-line becomes similarly trochaic. Sometimes
there is a double rhyme instead of a single, making seven syllables, though not altering the
rhythm; and sometimes this is extended to a full octosyllable. But this variety by no means
results in cacophony or confusion; the general swing of the metre is well maintained, and maintains
itself in turn on the ear.

[Sidenote: Rhyme and language.]

In the rhymes, as in those of all early rhymed poems, there is a certain monotony. Just as
in the probably contemporary Layamon the poet is tempted into rhyme chiefly by such easy opportunities
as "other" and "brother," "king" and "thing," so here, though rhyme is the rule, and not, as
there, the exception, certain pairs, especially "wip" and "lip" ("wife" and "body"), "sach"
and "sprach," "geben" and "geleben," "tot" and "not," recur perhaps a little too often for
the ear's perfect comfort. But this is natural and extremely pardonable. The language is exceedingly
clear and easy--far nearer to German of the present day than Layamon's own verse, or the prose
of the Ancren Riwle, is to English prose and verse of the nineteenth century; the differences
being, as a rule, rather matters of spelling or phrase than of actual vocabulary. It is very
well suited both to the poet's needs and to the subject; there being little or nothing of that
stammer--as it may be called--which is not uncommon in mediæval work, as if the writer were
trying to find words that he cannot find for a thought which he cannot fully shape even to
himself. In short, there is in the particular kind, stage, and degree that accomplishment which
distinguishes the greater from the lesser achievements of literature.

[Sidenote: Kudrun.]

Kudrun[110] or Gudrun--it is a little curious that this should be the name of the original
joint-heroine of the Nibelungenlied, of the heroine of one of the finest and most varied of
the Icelandic sagas, the Laxdæla, and of the present poem--is far less known to general students
of literature than its companion. Nor can it be said that this comparative neglect is wholly
undeserved. It is an interesting poem enough; but neither in story nor in character-interest,
in arrangement nor in execution, can it vie with the Nibelungen, of which in formal points
it has been thought to be a direct imitation. The stanza is much the same, except that there
is a much more general tendency to arrange the first couplet in single masculine rhyme and
the second in feminine, while the second half of the fourth line is curiously prolonged to
either ten or eleven syllables. The first refinement may be an improvement: the second certainly
is not, and makes it very difficult to a modern ear to get a satisfactory swing on the verse.
The language, moreover (though this is a point on which I speak with some diffidence), has
a slightly more archaic cast, as of intended archaism, than is the case with the Nibelungen.

[Footnote 110: Ed. Bartsch. 4th ed. Leipzig, 1880.]

As for matter, the poem has the interest, always considerable to English readers, of dealing
with the sea, and the shores of the sea; and, like the Nibelungenlied, it seems to have had
older forms, of which some remains exist in the Norse. But there is less coincidence of story:
and the most striking incident in the Norse--an unending battle, where the combatants, killed
every night, come alive again every day--is in the German a merely ordinary "battle of Wulpensand,"
where one side has the worst, and cloisters are founded for the repose of the dead. On the
other hand, Kudrun, while rationalised in some respects and Christianised in others, has the
extravagance, not so much primitive as carelessly artificial, of the later romances. Romance
has a special charter to neglect chronology; but the chronology here is exceptionally wanton.
After the above-mentioned Battle of Wulpensand, the beaten side resigns itself quite comfortably
to wait till the sons of the slain grow up: and to suit this arrangement the heroine remains
in ill-treated captivity--washing clothes by the sea-shore--for fifteen years or so. And even
thus the climax is not reached; for Gudrun's companion in this unpleasant task, and apparently
(since they are married at the same time) her equal, or nearly so, in age, has in the exordium
of the poem also been the companion of Gudrun's grandmother in durance to some griffins, from
whom they were rescued by Gudrun's grandfather.

One does not make peddling criticisms of this kind on any legend that has the true poetic character
of power--of sweeping the reader along with it; but this I, at least, can hardly find in Kudrun.
It consists of three or perhaps four parts: the initial adventures of Child Hagen of Ireland
with the griffins who carry him off; the wooing of his daughter Hilde by King Hetel, whose
ambassadors, Wate, Morunc, and Horant, play a great part throughout the poem; the subsequent
wooing of her daughter Gudrun, and her imprisonment and ill-usage by Gerlind, her wooer's mother;
her rescue by her lover Herwig after many years, and the slaughter of her tyrants, especially
Gerlind, which "Wate der alte" makes. There is also a generally happy ending, which, rather
contrary to the somewhat ferocious use and wont of these poems, is made to include Hartmuth,
Gudrun's unsuccessful wooer, and his sister Ortrun. The most noteworthy character, perhaps,
is the above-mentioned Wate (or Wade), who is something like Hagen in the Nibelungenlied as
far as valour and ferocity go, but is more of a subordinate. Gudrun herself has good touches--especially
where in her joy at the appearance of her rescuers she flings the hated "wash" into the sea,
and in one or two other passages. But she is nothing like such a person as Brynhild in the
Volsung story or Kriemhild in the Nibelungenlied. Even the "wash" incident and the state which,
in the teeth of her enemies, she takes upon her afterwards--the finest thing in the poem, though
it frightens some German critics who see beauties elsewhere that are not very clear to eyes
not native--fail to give her this personality. A better touch of nature still, though a slight
one, is her lover Herwig's fear, when he meets with a slight mishap before the castle of her
prison, that she may see it and reproach him with it after they are married. But on the whole,
Kudrun, though an excellent story of adventure, is not a great poem in the sense in which the
Nibelungenlied is one.

[Sidenote: Shorter national epics.]

Besides these two long poems (the greater of which, the Nibelungenlied, connects itself indirectly
with others through the personage of Dietrich[111]) there is a group of shorter and rather
older pieces, attributed in their present forms to the twelfth century, and not much later
than the German translation of the Chanson de Roland by a priest named Conrad, which is sometimes
put as early as 1130, and the German translation (see chapter iv.) of the Alixandre by Lamprecht,
which may be even older. Among these smaller epics, poems on the favourite mediæval subjects
of Solomon and Marcolf, St Brandan, &c., are often classed, but somewhat wrongly, as they belong
to a different school. Properly of the group are König Rother, Herzog Ernst, and Orendel. All
these suggest distinct imitation of the chansons, Orendel inclining rather to the legendary
and travelling kind of Jourdains de Blaivies or Huon, Herzog Ernst to the more feudal variety.
König Rother,[112] the most important of the batch, is a poem of a little more than five thousand
lines, of rather irregular length and rhythm, but mostly very short, rhymed, but with a leaning
towards assonance. The strong connection of these poems with the chansons is also shown by
the fact that Rother is made grandfather of Charlemagne and King of Rome. Whether he had anything
to do with the actual Lombard King Rother of the seventh century is only a speculative question;
the poem itself seems to be Bavarian, and to date from about 1150. The story is one of wooing
under considerable difficulties, and thus in some respects at least nearer to a roman d'aventures
than a chanson.

[Footnote 111: The very name of this remarkable personage seems to have exercised a fascination
over the early German mind, and appears as given to others (Wolfdietrich, Hugdietrich) who
have nothing to do with him of Verona.]

[Footnote 112: Ed. Von Bahder. Halle, 1884.]

[Sidenote: Literary poetry.]

It will depend on individual taste whether the reader prefers the so-called "art-poetry" which
broke out in Germany, almost wholly on a French impulse, but with astonishing individuality
and colour of national and personal character, towards the end of the twelfth century, to the
folk-poetry, of which the greater examples have been mentioned hitherto, whether he reverses
the preference, or whether, in the mood of the literary student proper, he declines to regard
either with preference, but admires and delights in both.[113] On either side there are compensations
for whatever loss may be urged by the partisans of the other. It may or may not be an accident
that the sons of adoption are more numerous than the sons of the house: it is not so certain
that the one group is to be on any true reckoning preferred to the other.

[Footnote 113: The subjects of the last paragraph form, it will be seen, a link between the
two, being at least probably based on German traditions, but influenced in form by French.]

[Sidenote: Its four chief masters.]

In any case the German literary poetry (a much better phrase than kunst-poesie, for there is
plenty of art on both sides) forms a part, and, next to its French originals, perhaps the greatest
part, of that extraordinary and almost unparalleled blossoming of literature which, starting
from France, overspread the whole of Europe at one time, the last half or quarter of the twelfth
century, and the first quarter of the thirteenth. Four names, great and all but of the greatest--Hartmann
von Aue, Gottfried of Strasburg, Wolfram von Eschenbach, and Walther von der Vogelweide--illustrate
it as far as Germany is concerned. Another, somewhat earlier than these, and in a way their
master, Eilhart von Oberge, is supposed or rather known to have dealt with the Tristram story
before Gottfried; and Heinrich von Veldeke, in handling the Æneid, communicated to Germany
something of a directly classical, though more of a French, touch. We have spoken of the still
earlier work of Conrad and Lamprecht, while in passing must be mentioned other things fashioned
after French patterns, such as the Kaiserchronik, which is attributed to Bavarian hands. The
period of flourishing of the literary poetry proper was not long--1150 to 1350 would cover
very nearly the whole of it, and, here, as elsewhere, it is impossible to deal with every individual,
or even with the majority of individuals. But some remarks in detail, though not in great detail,
on the four principals above referred to, will put the German literary "state" of the time
almost as well as if all the battalions and squadrons were enumerated. Hartmann, Gottfried,
and Wolfram, even in what we have of them, lyric writers in part, were chiefly writers of epic
or romance; Walther is a song-writer pure and simple.

[Sidenote: Excellence, both natural and acquired, of German verse.]

One thing may be said with great certainty of the division of literature to which we have come,
that none shows more clearly the natural aptitude of the people who produced it for poetry.
It is a familiar observation from beginners in German who have any literary taste, that German
poetry reads naturally, German prose does not. In verse the German disencumbers himself of
that gruesome clumsiness which almost always besets him in the art he learnt so late, and never
learnt to any perfection. To "say" is a trouble to him, a trouble too often unconquerable;
to sing is easy enough. And this truth, true of all centuries of German literature, is never
truer than here. Translated or adapted verse is not usually the most cheerful department of
poetry. The English romances, translated or adapted from the French, at times on the whole
later than these, have been unduly abused; but they are certainly not the portion of the literature
of his country on which an Englishman would most pride himself. Even the home-grown and, as
I would fain believe, home-made legend of Arthur, had to wait till the fifteenth century before
it met, and then in prose, a worthy master in English.

[Sidenote: Originality of its adaptation.]

But the German adapters of French at the meeting of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries are
persons of very different calibre from the translators of Alexander and the other English-French
romances, even from those who with far more native talent Englished Havelok and Horn. If I
have spoken harshly of German admiration of Kudrun, I am glad to make this amends and to admit
that Gottfried's Tristan is by far the best of all the numerous rehandlings of the story which
have come down to us. If we must rest Hartmann von Aue's chief claims on the two Büchlein,
on the songs, and on the delightful Armer Heinrich, yet his Iwein and his Erec can hold their
own even with two of the freshest and most varied of Chrestien's original poems. No one except
the merest pedant of originality would hesitate to put Parzival above Percevale le Gallois,
though Wolfram von Eschenbach may be thought to have been less fortunate with Willehalm. And
though in the lyric, the debt due to both troubadour and trouvère is unmistakable, it is equally
unmistakable what mighty usury the minnesingers have paid for the capital they borrowed. The
skill both of Northern and Southern Frenchmen is seldom to seek in lyric: we cannot give them
too high praise as fashioners of instruments for other men to use. The cheerful bird-voice
of the trouvère, the half artificial but not wholly insincere intensity of his brethren of
the langue d'oc, will never miss their meed. But for real "cry," for the diviner elements of
lyric, we somehow wait till we hear it in

    "Under der linden
      An der heide,
    da unser zweier bette was,
    da muget ir vinden
      schone beide
    gebrochen bluomen unde gras.
      Vor dem walde in einem tal,
    tandaradei!
      schone sanc diu nahtegal."[114]

[Footnote 114: Walther's ninth Lied, opening stanza.]

At last we are free from the tyranny of the iambic, and have variety beyond the comparative
freedom of the trochee. The blessed liberty of trisyllabic feet not merely comes like music,
but is for the first time complete music, to the ear.

[Sidenote: The pioneers. Heinrich von Veldeke.]

Historians arrange the process of borrowing from the French and adjusting prosody to the loans
in, roughly speaking, three stages. The first of these is represented by Lamprecht's Alexander
and Conrad's Roland; while the second and far more important has for chief exponents an anonymous
rendering of the universally popular Flore et Blanchefleur,[115] the capital example of a pure
love-story in which love triumphs over luck and fate, and differences of nation and religion.
Of this only fragments survive, and the before-mentioned first German version of the Tristan
story by Eilhart von Oberge exists only in a much altered form of the fifteenth century. But
both, as well as the work in lyric and narrative of Heinrich von Veldeke, date well within
the twelfth century, and the earliest of them may not be much younger than its middle. It was
Heinrich who seems to have been the chief master in form of the greater poets mentioned above,
and now to be noticed as far as it is possible to us. We do not know, personally speaking,
very much about them, though the endless industry of their commentators, availing itself of
not a little sheer guesswork, has succeeded in spinning various stories concerning them; and
the curious incident of the Wartburg-krieg or minstrels' tournament, though reported much later,
very likely has sound traditional foundations. But it is not very necessary to believe, for
instance, that Gottfried von Strasburg makes an attack on Wolfram von Eschenbach. And generally
the best attitude is that of an editor of the said Gottfried (who himself rather fails to reck
his own salutary rede by proceeding to redistribute the ordinary attribution of poems), "Ich
bekenne dass ich in diesen Dingen skeptischer Natur bin."

[Footnote 115: Found in every language, but originally French.]

[Sidenote: Gottfried of Strasburg.]

If, however, even Gottfried's own authorship of the Tristan[116] is rather a matter of extremely
probable inference than of certain knowledge, and if the lives of most of the poets are very
little known, the poems themselves are fortunately there, for every one who chooses to read
and to form his own opinion about them. The palm for work of magnitude in every sense belongs
to Gottfried's Tristan and to Wolfram's Parzival, and as it happens--as it so often happens--the
contrasts of these two works are of the most striking and interesting character. The Tristram
story, as has been said above, despite its extreme popularity and the abiding hold which it
has exercised on poets as well as readers, is on the whole of a lower and coarser kind than
the great central Arthurian legend. The philtre, though it supplies a certain excuse for the
lovers, degrades the purely romantic character of their affection in more than compensating
measure; the conduct of Iseult to the faithful Brengwain, if by no means unfeminine, is exceedingly
detestable; and if Tristram was nearly as good a knight as Lancelot, he certainly was not nearly
so good a lover or nearly so thorough a gentleman. But the attractions of the story were and
are all the greater, we need not say to the vulgar, but to the general; and Gottfried seems
to have been quite admirably and almost ideally qualified to treat them. His French original
is not known, for the earlier French versions of this story have perished or only survive in
fragments; and there is an almost inextricable coil about the "Thomas" to whom Gottfried refers,
and who used to be (though this has now been given up) identified with no less a person than
Thomas the Rhymer, Thomas of Erceldoune himself. But we can see, as clearly as if we had parallel
texts, that Gottfried treated his original as all real and sensible poets do treat their originals--that
is to say, that he took what he wanted, added what he chose, and discarded what he pleased.
In his handling of the French octosyllable he at once displays that impatience of the rigidly
syllabic system of prosody which Teutonic poetry of the best kind always shows sooner or later.
At first the octosyllables are arranged in a curious and not particularly charming scheme of
quatrains, not only mono-rhymed, but so arranged that the very same words occur in alternate
places, or in 1, 4, and 2, 3--"Man," "kan," "man," "kan"; "list," "ist," "ist," "list,"--the
latter order being in this interesting, that it suggests the very first appearance of the In
Memoriam stanza. But Gottfried was much too sensible a poet to think of writing a long poem--his,
which is not complete, and was continued by Ulrich von Turheim, by an Anon, and by Heinrich
von Freiberg, extends to some twenty thousand lines--in such a measure as this. He soon takes
up the simple octosyllabic couplet, treated, however, with great freedom. The rhymes are sometimes
single, sometimes double, occasionally even triple. The syllables constantly sink to seven,
and sometimes even to six, or extend themselves, by the admission of trisyllabic feet, to ten,
eleven, if not even twelve. Thus, once more, the famous "Christabel" metre is here, not indeed
in the extremely mobile completeness which Coleridge gave it, nor even with quite such an indulgence
in anapæsts as Spenser allows himself in "The Oak and the Brere," but to all intents and purposes
fully constituted, if not fully developed.

[Footnote 116: Ed. Bechstein. 3d ed., 2 vols. Leipzig, 1891.]

And Gottfried is quite equal to his form. One may feel, indeed, and it is not unpleasant to
feel, that evidence of the "young hand," which consists in digressions from the text, of excursus
and ambages, essays, as it were, to show, "Here I am speaking quite for myself, and not merely
reading off book." But he tells the story very well--compare, for instance, the crucial point
of the substitution of Brengwain for Iseult in him and in the English Sir Tristrem, or the
charming account of the "Minnegrotte" in the twenty-seventh song, with the many other things
of the kind in French, English, and German of the time. Also he has constant little bursts,
little spurts, of half-lyrical cry, which lighten the narrative charmingly.

    "Diu wise Isôt, diu schoene Isôt,
    Diu liuhtet alse der morgenrot,"

is the very thing the want of which mars the pleasantly flowing but somewhat featureless octosyllables
of his French models. In the famous passage[117] where he has been thought to reflect on Wolfram,
he certainly praises other poets without stint, and shows himself a generous as well as a judicious
critic. How Hartmann von Aue hits the meaning of a story! how loud and clear rings the crystal
of his words! Did not Heinrich von Veldeke "imp the first shoot on Teutish tongues" (graft
French on German poetry)? With what a lofty voice does the nightingale of the Bird-Meadow (Walther)
warble across the heath! Nor is it unpleasant to come shortly afterwards to our old friends
Apollo and the Camoenæ, the nine "Sirens of the ears"--a slightly mixed reminiscence, but characteristic
of the union of classical and romantic material which communicates to the Middle Ages so much
of their charm. Indeed nowhere in this Pisgah sight of literature would it be pleasanter to
come down and expatiate on the particular subject than in the case of these Middle High German
poets.

[Footnote 117: Tristan, 8th song, l. 4619 and onwards. The crucial passage is a sharp rebuke
of "finders [vindære, trouvères] of wild tales," or one particular such who plays tricks on
his readers and utters unintelligible things. It may be Wolfram: it also may not be.]

[Sidenote: Hartmann von Aue.]

Hartmann von Aue,[118] the subject of Gottfried's highest eulogy, has left a bulkier--at least
a more varied--poetical baggage than his eulogist, whose own legacy is not small. It will depend
a good deal on individual taste whether his actual poetical powers be put lower or higher.
We have of his, or attributed to him, two long romances of adventure, translations or adaptations
of the Chevalier au Lyon and the Erec et Énide of Chrestien de Troyes; a certain number of
songs, partly amatory, partly religious, two curious pieces entitled Die Klage and Büchlein,
a verse-rendering of a subject which was much a favourite, the involuntary incest and atonement
of St Gregory of the Rock; and lastly, his masterpiece, Der Arme Heinrich.

[Footnote 118: Ed. Bech. 3d ed., 3 vols. Leipzig, 1893.]

[Sidenote: Erec der Wanderære and Iwein.]

In considering the two Arthurian adventure-stories, it is fair to remember that in Gottfried's
case we have not the original, while in Hartmann's we have, and that the originals here are
two of the very best examples in their kind and language. That Hartmann did not escape the
besetting sin of all adapters, and especially of all mediæval adapters, the sin of amplification
and watering down, is quite true. It is shown by the fact that while Chrestien contents himself
in each case with less than seven thousand lines (and he has never been thought a laconic poet),
Hartmann extends both in practically the same measure (though the licences above referred to
make the lines often much shorter than the French, while Hartmann himself does not often make
them much longer)--in the one case to over eight thousand lines, in the other to over ten.
But it would not be fair to deny very considerable merits to his versions. They are readable
with interest after the French itself: and in the case of Erec after the Mabinogion and the
Idylls of the King also. It cannot be said, however, that in either piece the poet handles
his subject with the same appearance of mastery which belongs to Gottfried: and this is not
to be altogether accounted for by the fact that the stories themselves are less interesting.
Or rather it may be said that his selection of these stories, good as they are in their way,
when greater were at his option, somewhat "speaks him" as a poet.

[Sidenote: Lyrics.]

The next or lyrical division shows Hartmann more favourably, though still not exactly as a
great poet. The "Frauenminne," or profane division, of these has something of the artificial
character which used very unjustly to be charged against the whole love-poetry of the Middle
Ages, and which certainly does affect some of it. There is nowhere the "cry" that we find in
the best of Gottfried's "nightingales"--the lyric poets as opposed to the epic. He does not
seem to have much command of trisyllabic measures, and is perhaps happiest in the above-mentioned
mono-rhymed quatrain, apparently a favourite measure then, which he uses sometimes in octosyllables,
but often also in decasyllables. I do not know, and it would probably be difficult to say,
what was the first appearance of the decasyllable, which in German, as in English, was to become
on the whole the staple measure of non-lyrical poetry and the not infrequent medium of lyrical.
But this must be fairly early, and certainly is a good example. The "Gottesminne," or, as our
own old word has it, the "Divine" Poems, are very much better. Hartmann himself was a crusader,
and there is nothing merely conventional in his few lays from the crusading and pilgrim standpoint.
Indeed the very first words, expressing his determination after his lord's death to leave the
world to itself, have a better ring than anything in his love-poetry; and the echo is kept
up in such simple but true sayings as this about "Christ's flowers" (the badge of the cross):--

    "Min froude wart nie sorgelos
      Unz an die tage
    Daz ich mir Krystes bluomon kos
      Die ich hie trage."

[Sidenote: The "booklets."]

The two curious booklets or complaints (for each bore the title of Büchlein in its own day,
and each is a Klage) and the Gregorius touch the lyric on one side and the adventure poems
on the other. Gregorius, indeed, is simply a roman d'aventures of pious tendency; and there
cannot be very much doubt that it had a French original. It extends to some four thousand lines,
and does not show any poetical characteristics very different from those of Erec and Iwein,
though they are applied to different matter. In size the two "booklets" stand in a curiously
diminishing ratio to Erec with its ten thousand verses, Iwein with its eight, and Gregorius
with its four; for Die Klage has a little under two thousand, and the Büchlein proper a little
under one. Die Klage is of varied structure, beginning with octosyllables, of which the first--

    "Minne waltet grozer kraft"--

has a pleasant trochaic cadence: continuing after some sixteen hundred lines (if indeed it
be a continuation and not a new poem) in curious long laisses, rather than stanzas, of eights
and sevens rhymed on one continuous pair of single and double rhymes, cit unde: ant ende, &c.
The Büchlein proper is all couplets, and ends less deplorably than its beginning--

    "Owê, Owê, unde owê!"--

might suggest. It is, however, more serious than the Klage, which is really a débat (as the
technical term in French poetry then went) between Body and Soul, and of no unusual kind.

[Sidenote: Der Arme Heinrich.]

Fortunately for Hartmann, he has left another work, Der Arme Heinrich, which is thought to
be his last, and is certainly his most perfect. It is almost a pity that Longfellow, in his
adaptation of it, did not stick closer to the original; for pleasant as The Golden Legend is,
it is more of a pastiche and mosaic than Der Arme Heinrich, one of the simplest, most direct,
and most touching of mediæval poems. Heinrich (also Von Aue) is a noble who, like Sir Isumbras
and other examples of the no less pious than wise belief of the Middle Ages in Nemesis, forgets
God and is stricken for his sin with leprosy. He can only recover by the blood of a pure maiden;
and half despairing of, half revolting at, such a cure, he gives away all his property but
one farm, and lives there in misery. The farmer's daughter learns his doom and devotes herself.
Heinrich refuses for a time, but yields: and they travel to Salerno, where, as the sacrifice
is on the point of completion, Heinrich sees the maiden's face through a crack in the doctor's
room-wall, feels the impossibility of allowing her to die, and stops the crime. He is rewarded
by a cure as miraculous as was his harm; recovers his fortune, and marries the maiden. A later
termination separates them again; but this is simply the folly and bad taste of a certain,
and only a certain, perversion of mediæval sentiment, the crowning instance of which is found
in Guy of Warwick. Hartmann himself was no such simpleton; and (with only an infinitesimal
change of a famous sentence) we may be sure that as he was a good lover so he made a good end
to his story.

[Sidenote: Wolfram von Eschenbach.]

[Sidenote: Titurel.]

Although German writers may sometimes have mispraised or over-praised their greatest mediæval
poet, it certain that we find in Wolfram von Eschenbach[119] qualities which, in the thousand
years between the Fall and the Renaissance of classical literature, can be found to anything
like the same extent in only two known writers, the Italian Dante and the Englishman Langland;
while if he is immensely Dante's inferior in poetical quality, he has at least one gift, humour,
which Dante had not, and is far Langland's superior in variety and in romantic charm. He displays,
moreover, a really curious contrast to the poets already mentioned, and to most of the far
greater number not mentioned. It is in Wolfram first that we come across, in anything like
noticeable measure, that mastery of poetical mysticism which is the pride, and justly the pride,
of the German Muse. Gottfried and Hartmann are rather practical folk. Hartmann has at best
a pious and Gottfried a profane fancy; of the higher qualities of imagination there is little
or nothing in them; and not much in the vast crowd of the Minnesingers, from the chief "nightingale"
Walther downwards. Wolfram, himself a Minnesinger (indeed the term is loosely applied to all
the poets of this time, and may be very properly claimed by Gottfried and Hartmann, though
the former has left no lyric), has left us few but very remarkable aubades, in which the commonplace
of the morning-song, with its disturbance of lovers, is treated in no commonplace way. But
his fame rests on the three epics, Parzival, Titurel, and Willehalm. It is practically agreed
that Parzival represents the flourishing time, and Willehalm the evening, of his work; there
is more critical disagreement about the time of composition of Titurel, which, though it was
afterwards continued and worked up by another hand, exists only in fragments, and presents
a very curious difference of structure as compared both with Parzival (with which in subject
it is connected) and with Willehalm. Both these are in octosyllables: Titurel is in a singular
and far from felicitous stanza, which stands to that of Kudrun much as the Kudrun stanza does
to that of the Nibelungen. Here there are none but double rhymes; and not merely the second
half of the fourth, but the second half of the second line "tails out" in the manner formerly
described. The consequence is, that while in Kudrun it is, as was remarked, difficult to get
any swing on the metre, in Titurel it is simply impossible; and it has been thought without
any improbability that the fragmentary condition of the piece is due to the poet's reasonable
discontent with the shackles he had imposed on himself. The substance is good enough, and would
have made an interesting chapter in the vast working up of the Percevale story which Wolfram
probably had in his mind.

[Footnote 119: Complete works. Ed. Lachmann. Berlin, 1838. Parzival und Titurel. 2 vols. Ed.
Bartsch. Leipzig, 1870.]

[Sidenote: Willehalm.]

Willehalm, on the other hand, is not only in form but in substance a following of the French,
and of no less a French poem than the Battle of Aliscans, which has been so fully dealt with
above. It is interesting to compare advocates of the two, and see how German critics usually
extol the improvements made by the German poet, while the French sneer at his preachments and
waterings-down. But we need say nothing more than that if Wolfram's fame rested on Willehalm,
the notice of him here would probably not go beyond a couple of lines.

[Sidenote: Parzival.]

Parzival, however, is a very different matter. It has of late years received adventitious note
from the fact of its selection by Wagner as a libretto; but it did not need this, and it was
the admiration of every fit reader long before the opera appeared. The Percevale story, it
may be remembered, lies somewhat outside of the main Arthurian legend, which, however, had
hardly taken full form when Wolfram wrote. It has been strongly fought for by the Celticists
as traceable originally to the Welsh legend of Peredur; but it is to be observed that neither
in this form nor in the English version (which figures among the Thornton Romances) does the
Graal make any figure. In the huge poem, made huger by continuators, of Chrestien de Troyes,
Percival becomes a Graal-seeker; and on the whole it would appear that, as observed before,
he in point of time anticipates Galahad and the story which works the Graal thoroughly into
the main Arthurian tale. According to Wolfram (but this is a romantic commonplace), Chrestien
was culpably remiss in telling the story, and his deficiencies had to be made up by a certain
Provençal named Kyot. Unfortunately there are no traces elsewhere of any such person, or of
any version, in Provençal or otherwise, between Chrestien's and Wolfram's. The two, however,
stand far enough apart to have admitted of more than one intermediary; or rather no number
of intermediaries could really have bridged the chasm, which is one of spirit rather than of
matter. In Percevale le Gallois, though the Graal exists, and though the adventures are rather
more on the outside of the strictly Arthurian cycle than usual, we are still in close relations
with that cycle, and the general tone and handling are similar (except in so far as Chrestien
is a better trouvère than most) to those of fifty other poems. In Parzival we are translated
into another country altogether. Arthur appears but seldom, and though the link with the Round
Table is maintained by the appearances of Gawain, who as often, though not always, plays to
Percevale the part of light to serious hero, here almost only, and here not always, are we
in among "kenned folk." The Graal mountain, Montsalvatsch, is even more in fairyland than the
"enchanted towers of Carbonek"; the magician Klingschor is a more shadowy person far than Merlin.

    "Cundrie la Sorziere
    Diu unsueze und doch diu fiere"

is a much more weird personage than Morgane or Nimue, though she may also be more "unsweet."
Part of this unfamiliar effect is no doubt due to Wolfram's singular fancy for mutilating and
torturing his French names, to his admixture of new characters and adventures, and especially
to the almost entirely new genealogy which he introduces. In the pedigree, containing nearly
seventy names, which will be found at the end of Bartsch's edition, not a tithe will be familiar
to the reader of the English and French romances; and that reader will generally find those
whom he does know provided with new fathers and mothers, daughters and wives.

But these would be very small matters if it were not for other differences, not of administration
but of spirit. There may have been something too much of the attempt to credit Wolfram with
anti-dogmatic views, and with a certain Protestant preference of simple repentance and amendment
to the performance of stated rites and penances. What is unmistakable is the way in which he
lifts the story, now by phrase, now by verse effect, now by the indefinable magic of sheer
poetic handling, out of ordinary ways into ways that are not ordinary. There may perhaps be
allowed to be a certain want of "architectonic" in him. He has not made of Parzival and Condwiramurs,
of Gawain and Orgeluse, anything like the complete drama which we find (brought out by the
genius of Malory, but existing before) in the French-English Arthurian legend. But any one
who knows the origins of that legend from Erec et Énide to Durmart le Gallois, and from the
Chevalier au Lyon to the Chevalier as Deux Espées, must recognise in him something higher and
larger than can be found in any of them, as well as something more human, if even in the best
sense more fairy-tale like, than the earlier and more Western legends of the Graal as we have
them in Merlin and the other French books. Here again, not so much for the form as for the
spirit, we find ourselves driven to the word "great"--a great word, and one not to be misused
as it so often is.

[Sidenote: Walther von der Vogelweide.]

Yet it may be applied in a different sense, though without hesitation, to our fourth selected
name, Walther von der Vogelweide,[120] a name in itself so agreeable that one really has to
take care lest it raise an undue prejudice in his favour. Perhaps a part of his greatness belongs
to him as the chief representative of a class, not, as in Wolfram's case, because of individual
merit,--a part also to his excellence of form, which is a claim always regarded with doubt
and dislike by some, though not all. It is nearly a quarter of a century since the present
writer first possessed himself of and first read the delectable volume in which Franz Pfeiffer
opened his series of German Classics of the Middle Ages with this singer; and every subsequent
reading, in whole or in part, has only increased his attraction. There are some writers--not
many--who seem to defy criticism by a sort of native charm, and of these Walther is one. If
we listen to some grave persons, it is a childish thing to write a poem, as he does his second
Lied, in stanzas every one of which is mono-rhymed on a different vowel. But as one reads

    "Diu werlt was gelf, röt unde blâ,"[121]

one only prays for more such childishness. Is there a better song of May and maidens than

    "So diu bluomen uz dem grase dringent"?

where the very phrase is romance and nature itself, and could never be indulged in by a "classical"
poet, who would say (very justly), "flowers grow in beds, not grass; and if in the latter,
they ought to be promptly mown and rolled down." How intoxicating, after deserts of iambs,
is the dactylic swell of

    "Wol mich der stunde, daz ich sie erkande"!

how endearing the drooping cadence of

            "Bin ich dir unmære
    Des enweiz ich niht; ich minne dich"!

how small the change which makes a jewel out of a commonplace in

    "Si hat ein kûssen daz ist rot"!

[Footnote 120: Ed. Bartsch. 4th ed. Leipzig, 1873.]

[Footnote 121:

    "Diu werlt was gelf, röt unde blâ,
    grüen, in dem walde und anderswâ
    kleine vogele sungen dâ.
    nû schriet aber den nebelkrâ.
    pfligt s'iht ander varwe? jâ,
    s'ist worden bleich und übergrâ:
    des rimpfet sich vil manic brâ."

Similar stanzas in e, i, o, u follow in order.]

But to go through the nearly two hundred pieces of Walther's lyric would be here impossible.
His Leich, his only example of that elaborate kind, the most complicated of the early German
lyrical forms, is not perhaps his happiest effort; and his Sprüche, a name given to short lyrical
pieces in which the Minnesingers particularly delighted, and which correspond pretty nearly,
though not exactly, to the older sense of "epigram," seldom, though sometimes, possess the
charm of the Lieder themselves. But these Lieder are, for probable freedom from indebtedness
and intrinsic exquisiteness of phrase and rhythm, unsurpassed, perhaps unequalled. To compare
Walther to Petrarch, and to talk of the one being superior or inferior to the other, is to
betray hopeless insensibility to the very rudiments of criticism. They are absolutely different,--the
one the embodiment of stately form and laboured intellectual effort--of the Classical spirit;
the other the mouthpiece of the half-inarticulate, all-suggesting music that is at once the
very soul and the very inseparable garment of Romance. Some may like one better, others the
other; the more fortunate may enjoy both. But the greatest of all gulfs is the gulf fixed between
the Classical and the Romantic; and few there are, it seems, who can cross it.

[Sidenote: Personality of the poets.]

Perhaps something may be expected as to the personality of these poets, a matter which has
had too great a place assigned to it in literary history. Luckily, unless he delights in unbridled
guessing, the historian of mediæval literature is better entitled to abstain from it than any
other. But something may perhaps be said of the men whose work has just been discussed, for
there are not uninteresting shades of difference between them. In Germany, as in France, the
trouvère-jongleur class existed; the greater part of the poetry of the twelfth century, including
the so-called small epics, König Rother and the rest, is attributed to them, and they were
the objects of a good deal of patronage from the innumerable nobles, small and great, of the
Empire. On the other hand, though some men of consequence were poets, the proportion of these
is, on the whole, considerably less than in France proper or in Provence. The German noble
was not so much literary as a patron of literature, like that Landgrave Hermann of Thuringia,
whose court saw the fabulous or semi-fabulous "War of the Wartburg," with Wolfram von Eschenbach
and Heinrich von Ofterdingen as chief champions. Indeed this court was the main resort of German
poets and minstrels till Saint Elizabeth of Hungary in the next generation proved herself a
rather "sair sanct" for literature, which has since returned her good for evil.

To return to our four selected poets. Gottfried is supposed to have been neither noble, nor
even directly attached to a noble household, nor a professional minstrel, but a burgher of
the town which gives him his name--indeed a caution is necessary to the effect that the von
of these early designations, like the de of their French originals, is by no means, as a rule,
a sign of nobility. Hartmann von Aue, though rather attached to than a member of the noble
family of the same name from which he has taken the hero of Der Arme Heinrich, seems to have
been admitted to knightly society, was a crusader, and appears to have been of somewhat higher
rank than Gottfried, whom, however, he resembled in this point, that both were evidently men
of considerable education. We rise again in status, though probably not in wealth, and certainly
not in education, when we come to Wolfram von Eschenbach. He was of a family of Northern Bavaria
or Middle Franconia; he bore (for there are diversities on this heraldic point) two axe-blades
argent on a field gules, or a bunch of five flowers argent springing from a water-bouget gules;
and he is said by witnesses in 1608 to have been described on his tombstone as a knight. But
he was certainly poor, had not received much education, and he was attached in the usual guest-dependant
fashion of the time to the Margrave of Vohburg (whose wife, Elizabeth of Bavaria, received
his poetical declarations) and to Hermann of Thuringia. He was a married man, and had a daughter.

Lastly, Walther von der Vogelweide appears to have been actually a "working poet," as we may
say--a trouvère, who sang his own poems as he wandered about, and whose surname was purely
a decorative one. He lived, no doubt, by gifts; indeed, the historians are proud to record
that a bishop gave him a fur coat precisely on the 12th of November 1203. He was probably born
in Austria, lived at Vienna with Duke Frederic of Babenberg for some time, and held poetical
offices in the households of several other princes, including the Emperor Frederick II., who
gave him an estate at last. It should be said that there are those who insist that he also
was of knightly position, and was Vogelweide of that ilk, inasmuch as we find him called "herr,"
the supposed mark of distinction of a gentleman at the time. Such questions are of importance
in their general bearing on the question of literature at given dates, not in respect of individual
persons. It must be evident that no word which, like "herr," is susceptible of general as well
as technical meanings, can be absolutely decisive in such a case, unless we find it in formal
documents. Also, after Frederick's gift Walther would have been entitled to it, though he was
not before. At any rate, the entirely wandering life, and the constant relationship to different
protectors, which are in fact the only things we know about him, are more in accordance with
the notion of a professional minstrel than with that of a man who, like Wolfram, even if he
had no estate and was not independent of patronage, yet had a settled home of his own, and
was buried where he was born.

[Sidenote: The Minnesingers generally.]

The introduction of what may be called a representative system into literary history has been
here rendered necessary by the fact that the school-resemblance so common in mediæval writers
is nowhere more common than among the Minnesingers,[122] and that the latter are extraordinarily
numerous, if not also extraordinarily monotonous. One famous collection contains specimens
of 160 poets, and even this is not likely to include the whole of those who composed poetry
of the kind before Minnesong changed (somewhere in the thirteenth century or at the beginning
of the fourteenth, but at times and in manners which cannot be very precisely fixed) into Meistersong.
The chief lyric poets before Walther were Heinrich von Veldeke, his contemporary and namesake
Heinrich von Morungen, and Reinmar von Hagenau, whom Gottfried selects as Walther's immediate
predecessor in "nightingaleship": the chief later ones, Neidhart von Regenthal, famous for
dance-songs; Tannhäuser, whose actual work, however, is of a mostly burlesque character, as
different as possible from, and perhaps giving rise by very contrast to, the beautiful and
terrible legend which connects his name with the Venus-berg (though Heine has managed in his
version to combine the two elements); Ulrich von Lichtenstein, half an apostle, half a caricaturist
of Frauendienst on the Provençal model; and, finally, Frauenlob or Heinrich von Meissen, who
wrote at the end of our period and the beginning of the next for nearly fifty years, and may
be said to be the link between Minnesong and Meistersong.

[Footnote 122: The standard edition or corpus of their work is that of Von der Hagen, in three
large vols. Leipzig, 1838.]

So also in the other departments of poetry, harbingers, contemporaries, and continuators, some
of whom have been mentioned, most of whom it would be impossible to mention, group round the
greater masters, and as in France, so here, the departments themselves branch out in an almost
bewildering manner. Germany, as may be supposed, had its full share of that "poetry of information"
which constitutes so large a part of mediæval verse, though here even more than elsewhere such
verse is rarely, except by courtesy, poetry. Families of later handlings, both of the folk
epic and the literary romances, exist, such as the Rosengarten, the Horny Siegfried, and the
story of Wolfdietrich in the one class; Wigalois and Wigamur, and a whole menagerie of poems
deriving from the Chevalier au Lyon, on the other. With the general growth, half epidemic,
half directly borrowed from France, of abstraction and allegory (vide next chapter), Satire
made its way, and historians generally dwell on the "Frau Welt" of Konrad von Wurzburg in the
middle of the thirteenth century, in which Wirent von Grafenburg (a well-known poet among the
literary school, the author of Wigalois) is brought face to face with an incarnation of the
World and its vanity. Volumes on volumes of moral poetry date from the thirteenth century,
and culminate in the somewhat well-known Renner[123] of Hugo von Trimberg, dating from the
very last year of our period: perhaps the most noteworthy is the Bescheidenheit of Freidank,
a crusader trouvère who accompanied Frederick II. to the East. But in all this Germany is only
following the general habit of the age, and to a great extent copying directly. Even in those
greater writers who have been here noticed there is, as we have seen, not a little imitation;
but the national and individual peculiarities more than excuse this. The national epics, with
the Nibelungenlied at their head, the Arthurian stories transformed, of which in different
ways Tristan and Parzival, but especially the latter, are the chief, and the Minnesong,--these
are the great contributions of Germany during the period, and they are great indeed.

[Footnote 123: On this see the last passage, except the conclusion on Reynard the Fox, of Carlyle's
Essay on "Early German Literature" noted above. Of the great romances, as distinguished from
the Nibelungen, Carlyle did not know much, and he was not quite in sympathy either with their
writers or with the Minnesingers proper. It is indeed not a little curious that the productions
of this time, long almost totally ignored in France itself, and even now rather grudgingly
acknowledged there, are the only periodic set of productions that justify the claim, so often
advanced by Frenchmen, that their country is at the head of the literary development of Europe.
It was not so in the fourteenth century, when not only Chaucer in England, but Dante, Petrarch,
and Boccaccio in Italy, attained literary heights to which none of their French contemporaries
even approached. It was not so in the fifteenth, when France, despite Villon and others, was
the very School of Dulness, and even England, with the help of the Scottish poets and Malory,
had a slight advantage over her, while she was far outstripped by Italy. It was not so in the
sixteenth, when Italy hardly yet fell behind, and Spain and England far outwent her: nor, according
to any just estimate, in the seventeenth. In the eighteenth her pale correctness looks faint
enough, not merely beside the massive strength of England, but beside the gathering force of
Germany: and if she is the equal of the best in the nineteenth, it is at the very most a bare
equality. But in the twelfth and thirteenth France, if not Paris, was in reality the eye and
brain of Europe, the place of origin of almost every literary form, the place of finishing
and polishing, even for those forms which she did not originate. She not merely taught, she
wrought--and wrought consummately. She revived and transformed the fable; perfected, if she
did not invent, the beast-epic; brought the short prose tale to an exquisite completeness;
enlarged, suppled, chequered, the somewhat stiff and monotonous forms of Provençal lyric into
myriad-noted variety; devised the prose-memoir, and left capital examples of it; made attempts
at the prose history; ventured upon much and performed no little in the vernacular drama; besides
the vast performance, sometimes inspired from elsewhere but never as literature copied, which
we have already seen, in her fostering if not mothering of Romance. When a learned and enthusiastic
Icelander speaks of his patrimony in letters as "a native literature which, in originality,
richness, historical and artistic worth, stands unrivalled in modern Europe," we can admire
the patriot but must shake our heads at the critic. For by Dr Vigfusson's own confession the
strength of Icelandic literature consists in the sagas, and the sagas are the product of the
twelfth and thirteenth centuries. At that very time France, besides the chansons de geste--as
native, as original, as the sagas, and if less rich, far more artistic in form--France has
to show the great romances proper, which Iceland herself, like all the world, copied, a lyric
of wonderful charm and abundance, the vast comic wealth of the fabliaux, and the Fox-epic,
prose not merely of laws and homilies and rudimentary educational subjects, but of every variety,
drama, history, philosophy, allegory, dream.

[Sidenote: The rise of Allegory.]

To give an account of these various things in great detail would not merely be impossible here,
but would injure the scheme and thwart the purpose of this history. We must survey them in
the gross, or with a few examples--showing the lessons taught and the results achieved, from
the lyric, which was probably the earliest, to the drama and the prose story, which were pretty
certainly the latest of the French experiments. But we must give largest space to the singular
growth of Allegory. This, to some extent in the beast-epic, to a far greater in one of the
most epoch-making of European books, the Romance of the Rose, set a fashion in Europe which
had hardly passed away in three hundred years, and which, latterly rather for the worse, but
in the earlier date not a little for the better, coloured not merely the work directly composed
in imitation of the great originals, but all literary stuff of every kind, from lyric to drama,
and from sermons to prose tales.

[Sidenote: Lyric.]

It has been said elsewhere that the shaping of a prosody suitable for lyric was the great debt
which Europe owes to the language of Provence. And this is not at all inconsistent with the
undoubted critical fact that in a Corpus Lyricorum the best songs of the northern tongues would
undoubtedly rank higher, according to all sound canons of poetical criticism, than the best
lyrics of the southern. For, as it happens, we have lyrics in at least two most vigorous northern
tongues before they had gone to school to southern prosody, and we can see at once the defects
in them. The scanty remains of Anglo-Saxon lyric and the more copious remains of Icelandic
display, with no little power and pathos, and plenty of ill-organised "cry," an almost total
lack of ability to sing. Every now and then their natural genius enables them to hit, clumsily
and laboriously, on something--the refrain of the Complaint of Deor, the stepped stanzas of
the Lesson of Loddfafni--resembling the more accomplished methods of more educated and long-descended
literatures. But the poets are always in a Robinson Crusoe condition, and worse: for Robinson
had at least seen the tools and utensils he needed, if he did not know how to make them. The
scôps and scalds were groping for the very pattern of the tools themselves.

The langue d'oc, first of all vernacular tongues, borrowed from Latin, as Latin had borrowed
from Greek, such of the practical outcomes of the laws of lyric harmony in Aryan speech as
were suitable to itself; and passed the lesson on to the trouvères of the north of France--if
indeed these did not work out the transfer for themselves almost independently. And as there
was much more northern admixture, and in particular a less tyrannous softness of vowel-ending
in the langue d'oïl, this second stage saw a great increase of suppleness, a great emancipation
from monotony, a wonderful freshness and wealth of colour and form. It has been said, and I
see no reason to alter the saying, that the French tongue in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries
was actually better suited for lyrical poetry, and did actually produce lyrical poetry, as
far as prosody is concerned, of a fresher, freer, more spontaneous kind, from the twelfth century
to the beginning of the fifteenth than has ever been the case since.[124]

[Footnote 124: This is not inconsistent with allowing that no single French lyric poet is the
equal of Walther von der Vogelweide, and that the exercises of all are hampered by the lack--after
the earliest examples--of trisyllabic metres.]

M. Alfred Jeanroy has written a learned and extensive monograph on Les Origines de la Poesie
Lyrique en France, which with M. Gaston Raynaud's Bibliographie des Chansonniers Français,
and his collection of Motets of our present period, is indispensable to the thorough student
of the subject.[125] But for general literary purposes the two classics of the matter are,
and are long likely to be, the charming Romancero Français[126] which M. Paulin Paris published
in the very dawn of the study of mediæval literature in France, and the admirable Romanzen
und Pastourellen[127] which Herr Karl Bartsch collected and issued a quarter of a century ago.
Here as elsewhere the piecemeal system of publication which has been the bane of the whole
subject is to be regretted, for with a little effort and a little division of labour the entire
corpus of French lyric from the tenth to the fourteenth century might have been easily set
before the public. But the two volumes above mentioned will enable the reader to judge its
general characteristics with pretty absolute sureness; and if he desires to supplement them
with the work of a single author, that of Thibaut of Champagne or Navarre,[128] which is easily
accessible, will form an excellent third.

[Footnote 125: M. Jeanroy, as is also the case with other writers of monographs mentioned in
this chapter, has contributed to M. Petit de Julleville's Histoire (v. p. 23) on his subject.]

[Footnote 126: Paris, 1833.]

[Footnote 127: Leipzig, 1870.]

[Footnote 128: Rheims, 1851.]

[Sidenote: The Romance and the Pastourelle.]

In this northern lyric--that is to say, northern as compared with Provençal[129]--we find all
or almost all the artificial forms which are characteristic of Provençal itself, some of them
no doubt rather sisters than daughters of their analogues in the langue d'oc. Indeed, at the
end of our present period, and still more later, the ingenuity of the trouvères seems to have
pushed the strictly formal, strictly artificial part of the poetry of the troubadours to almost
its furthest possible limits in varieties of triolet and rondeau, ballade and chant royal.
But the Romances and the Pastourelles stand apart from these, and both are recognised by authorities
among the troubadours themselves as specially northern forms. The differentia of each is in
subject rather than in form, the "romance" in this sense being a short love-story, with little
more than a single incident in it sometimes, but still always possessing an incident; the Pastourelle,
a special variety of love-story of the kind so curiously popular in all mediæval languages,
and so curiously alien from modern experience, where a passing knight sees a damsel of low
degree, and woos her at once, with or without success, or where two personages of the shepherd
kind sue and are sued with evil hap or good. In other words, the "romance" is supremely presented
in English, and in the much-abused fifteenth century, by the Nut-Browne Maid, the "pastourelle"
by Henryson's Robene and Makyne. Perhaps there is nothing quite so good as either in the French
originals of both; certainly there is nothing like the union of metrical felicity, romantic
conduct, sweet but not mawkish sentiment, and never-flagging interest in the anonymous masterpiece
which the ever-blessed Arnold preserved for us in his Chronicle. But the diffused merits--the
so-to-speak "class-merits"--of the poems in general are very high indeed: and when the best
of the other lyrics--aubades, débats, and what not--are joined to them, they supply the materials
of an anthology of hardly surpassed interest, as well for the bubbling music of their refrains
and the trill of their metre, as for the fresh mirth and joy of living in their matter. The
"German paste in our composition," as another Arnold had it, and not only that, may make us
prefer the German examples; but it must never be forgotten that but for these it is at least
not improbable that those would never have existed.

[Footnote 129: This for convenience' sake is postponed to chap. viii.]

To select capital examples from so large a body is no easy task. One or two, indeed, have "made
fortune," the most famous of them being the great aubade (chief among its kind, as "En un vergier
sotz folha d'albespi" is among the Provençal albas), which begins--

    "Gaite de la tor,
         Gardez entor
         Les murs, si Deus vos voie;"[130]

and where the gaite (watcher) answers (like a Cornish watcher of the pilchards)--

    "Hu! et hu! et hu! et hu!"

[Footnote 130: Romancero Français, p. 66.]

Then there is the group, among the oldest and the best of all, assigned to Audefroy le Bâtard--a
most delectable garland, which tells how the loves of Gerard and Fair Isabel are delayed (with
the refrain "et joie atent Gerars"), and how the joy comes at last; of "belle Ydoine" and her
at first ill-starred passion for "li cuens [the Count] Garsiles"; of Béatrix and Guy; of Argentine,
whose husband better loved another; of Guy the second, who aima Emmelot de foi--all charming
pieces of early verse. And then there are hundreds of others, assigned or anonymous, in every
tone, from the rather unreasonable request of the lady who demands--

    "Por coi me bast mes maris?
                laysette!"

immediately answering her own question by confessing that he has found her embracing her lover,
and threatening further justification; through the less impudent but still not exactly correct
morality of "Henri and Aiglentine," to the blameless loves of Roland and "Bele Erembors" and
the moniage of "Bele Doette" after her lover's death, with the words--

    "Tant mar i fustes, cuens Do, frans de nature,
    por vostre aor vestrai je la haire
    ne sur mon cors n'arai pelice vaire."

This conduct differs sufficiently from that of the unnamed heroine of another song, who in
the sweetest and smoothest of verse bids her husband never to mind if she stays with her lover
that night, for the night is very short, and he, the husband, shall have her back to-morrow!

And besides the morality, perverse or touching, the quaint manners, the charming unusual names
or forms of names, Oriour, Oriolanz, Ysabiaus, Aigline,--there are delightful fancies, borrowed
often since:--

    "Li rossignox est mon père,
      Qui chante sur la ramée
    el plus haut boscage;
      La seraine ele est ma mère,
    qui chante en la mer salée
      el plus haut rivage."

Something in the very sound of the language keeps for us the freshness of the imagery--the
sweet-briar and the hawthorn, the mavis and the oriole--which has so long become publica materies.
It is not withered and hackneyed by time and tongues as, save when genius touches it, it is
now. The dew is still on all of it; and, thanks to the dead language, the dead manners, it
will always be on. All is just near enough to us for it to be enjoyed, as we cannot enjoy antiquity
or the East; and yet the "wall of glass" which seven centuries interpose, while hiding nothing,
keeps all intact, unhackneyed, strange, fresh. There may be better poetry in the world than
these twelfth and thirteenth century French lyrics: there is certainly higher, grander, more
respectable. But I doubt whether there is any sweeter or, in a certain sense, more poignant.
The nightingale and the mermaid were justified of their children.

It is little wonder that all Europe soon tried to imitate notes so charming, and in some cases,
though other languages were far behind French in development, tried successfully. Our own "Alison,"[131]
the first note of true English lyric, is a "romance" of the most genuine kind; the songs of
Walther von der Vogelweide, of which we have also spoken, though they may rise higher, yet
owe their French originals service, hold of them, would either never or much later have come
into existence but for them. An astonishing privilege for a single nation to have enjoyed,
if only for a short time; a privilege almost more astonishing in its reception than even in
itself. France could point to the chansons and to the romances, to Audefroy le Bastard and
Chrestien of Troyes, to Villehardouin and Thibaut, to William of Lorris and John of Meung,
to the fabliaux writers and the cyclists of Renart, in justification of her claims. She shut
them up; she forgot them; she sneered at them whenever they were remembered; and she appointed
as her attorneys in the court of Parnassus Nicolas Boileau-Despréaux and François Arouet de
Voltaire!

[Footnote 131: See p. 210.]

[Sidenote: The Fabliaux.]

No more curious contrast, but also none which could more clearly show the enormous vigour and
the unique variety of the French genius at this time, can be imagined than that which is presented
by the next division to which we come--the division occupied by the celebrated poems, or at
least verse-compositions, known as fabliaux. These, for reasons into which it is perhaps better
not to inquire too closely, have been longer and better known than any other division of old
French poetry. They were first collected and published a hundred and forty years ago by Barbazan;
they were much commented on by Le Grand d'Aussy in the last years of the last century, were
again published in the earlier years of the present by Méon, and recently have been re-collected,
divested of some companions not strictly of their kind, and published in an edition desirable
in every respect by M. Anatole de Montaiglon and M. Gaston Raynaud.[132] Since this collection
M. Bédier has executed a monograph upon them which stands to the subject much as that of M.
Jeanroy does to the Lyrics. But a great deal of it is occupied by speculations, more interesting
to the folk-lorist than to the student of literature, as to the origin of the stories themselves.
This, though a question of apparently inexhaustible attraction to some people, must not occupy
us very long here. It shall be enough to say that many of these subjects are hardy perennials
which meet us in all literatures, and the existence of which is more rationally to be accounted
for by the supposition of a certain common form of story, resulting partly from the conditions
of human life and character, partly from the conformation of the human intellect, than by supposing
deliberate transmission and copying from one nation to another. For this latter explanation
is one of those which, as has been said, only push ignorance further back; and in fact, leave
us at the last with no alternative except that which we might have adopted at the first.

[Footnote 132: 6 vols. Paris, 1872-90.]

[Sidenote: Their origin.]

That, however, some assistance may have been given to the general tendency to produce the same
forms by the literary knowledge of earlier, especially Eastern, collections of tales is no
extravagant supposition, and is helped by the undoubted fact that actual translations of such
collections--Dolopathos, the Seven Sages of Rome,[133] and so forth--are found early in French,
and chiefly at second-hand from the French in other languages. But the general tendency of
mankind, reinforced and organised by a certain specially literary faculty and adaptability
in the French genius, is on the whole sufficient to account for the fabliau.

[Footnote 133: For these see the texts and editorial matter of Dolopathos, ed. The English
Seven Sages (in Weber, vol. iii.) has been thought to be of the thirteenth century. The Gesta
Romanorum in any of its numerous forms is probably later.]

[Sidenote: Their licence.]

It presents, as we have said, the most striking and singular contrast to the Lyric poems which
we have just noticed. The technical morality of these is extremely accommodating, indeed (in
its conventional and normal form) very low. But it is redeemed by an exquisite grace and charm,
by true passion, and also by a great decency and accomplishment of actual diction. Coarse language--very
rare in the romances, though there are a few examples of it--is rarer still in the elaborate
formal lyric of the twelfth and thirteenth century in French. In the fabliaux, which are only
a very little later, and which seem not to have been a favourite form of composition very long
after the fourteenth century had reached its prime, coarseness of diction, though not quite
invariable, is the rule. Not merely are the subjects, in the majority of cases, distinctly
"broad," but the treatment of them is broader still. In a few instances it is very hard to
discern any wit at all, except a kind similar to that known much later in England as "selling
bargains"; and almost everywhere the words which, according to a famous classical French tag,
bravent l'honnêteté, in Latin, the use of which a Roman poet has vaunted as Romana simplicitas,
and which for some centuries have been left alone by regular literature in all European languages
till very recently,--appear to be introduced on purpose as part of the game. In fact, it is
in the fabliau that the characteristic which Mr Matthew Arnold selected as the opprobrium of
the French in life and literature practically makes its first appearance. And though the "lubricity"
of these poems is free from some ugly features which appear after the Italian wars of the late
fifteenth century, it has never been more frankly destitute of shamefacedness.

[Sidenote: Their wit.]

It would, however, be extremely unfair to let it be supposed that the fabliaux contain nothing
but obscenity, or that they can offer attractions to no one save those whom obscenity attracts.
As in those famous English followings of them, where Chaucer considerably reduced the licence
of language, and still more considerably increased the dose of wit--the Reeve's and Miller's
sections of the Canterbury Tales--the lack of decency is very often accompanied by no lack
of sense. And a certain proportion, including some of the very best in a literary point of
view, are not exposed to the charge of any impropriety either of language or of subject.

[Sidenote: Definition and subjects.]

There is, indeed, no special reason why the fabliau should be "improper" (except for the greater
ease of getting a laugh) according to its definition, which is capable of being drawn rather
more sharply than is always the case with literary kinds. It is a short tale in verse--almost
invariably octosyllabic couplets--dealing, for the most part from the comic point of view,
with incidents of ordinary life. This naturally admits of the widest possible diversity of
subject: indeed it is only by sticking to the condition of "ordinary life" that the fabliau
can be differentiated from the short romance on one side and the allegoric beast-fable on the
other. Even as it is, its most recent editors have admitted among their 157 examples not a
few which are simple jeux d'esprit on the things of humanity, and others which are in effect
short romances and nothing else. Of these last is the best known of all the non-Rabelaisian
fabliaux, "Le Vair Palefroi," which has been Englished by Leigh Hunt and shortly paraphrased
by Peacock, while examples of the former may be found without turning very long over even one
of M. M. de Montaiglon and Raynaud's pretty and learned volumes. A very large proportion, as
might be expected, draw their comic interest from satire on priests, on women, or on both together;
and this very general character of the fabliaux (which, it must be remembered, were performed
or recited by the very same jongleurs who conducted the publication of the chansons de geste
and the romances) was no doubt partly the result and partly the cause of the persistent dislike
and disfavour with which the Church regarded the profession of jonglerie. It is, indeed, from
the fabliaux themselves that we learn much of what we know about the jongleurs; and one of
not the least amusing[134] deals with the half-clumsy, half-satiric boasts of two members of
the order, who misquote the titles of their répertoire, make by accident or intention ironic
comments on its contents, and in short do not magnify their office in a very modern spirit
of humorous writing.

[Footnote 134: "Les Deux Bordeors [bourders, jesters] Ribaux."]

Every now and then, too, we find, in the half-random and wholly scurrile slander of womankind,
a touch of real humour, of the humour that has feeling behind it, as here, where a sufficiently
ribald variation on the theme of the "Ephesian matron" ends--

    "Por ce teng-je celui à fol
    Qui trop met en fame sa cure;
    Fame est de trop foible nature,
    De noient rit, de noient pleure,
    Fame aime et het en trop poi d'eure:
    Tost est ses talenz remuez,
    Qui fame croit, si est desvès."

So too, again, in "La Housse Partie," a piece which perhaps ranks next to the "Vair Palefroi"
in general estimation, there is neither purely romantic interest, as in the Palfrey, nor the
interest of "the pity of it," as in the piece just quoted; but an ethical purpose, showing
out of the mouth of babes and sucklings the danger of filial ingratitude.

But, as a general rule, there is little that is serious in these frequently graceless but generally
amusing compositions. There is a curious variety about them, and incidentally a crowd of lively
touches of common life. The fisherman of the Seine starts for his day's work or sport with
oar and tackle; the smith plies the forge; the bath plays a considerable part in the stories,
and we learn that it was not an unknown habit to eat when bathing, which seems to be an unwise
attempt to double luxuries. A short sketch of mediæval catering might be got out of the fabliaux,
where figure not merely the usual dainties--capons, partridges, pies well peppered--but eels
salted, dried, and then roasted, or more probably grilled, as we grill kippered salmon. Here
we have a somewhat less grimy original--perhaps it was actually the original--of Skelton's
"Tunning of Elinor Rumming"; and in many places other patterns, the later reproductions of
which are well known to readers of Boccaccio and the Cent Nouvelles Nouvelles of La Fontaine
and his followers. Title after title--"Du Prestre Crucifié," "Du Prestre et d'Alison," &c.--tells
us that the clergy are going to be lampooned. Sometimes, where the fun is no worse than childish,
it is childish enough--plays on words, jokes on English mispronunciation of French, and so
forth. But it very seldom, though it is sometimes intolerably nasty, approaches the sheer drivel
which appears in some English would-be comic writing of the Middle Ages, or the very early
Renaissance--such, for instance, as most of that in the prose "Pleasant Historie of Thomas
of Reading,"[135] which the late Mr Thoms was pleased to call a romance. Yet the actual stuff
of "Thomas of Reading" is very much of the nature of the fabliaux (except of course the tragical
part, which happens to be the only good part), and so the difference of the handling is noteworthy.
So it is also in English verse-work of the kind--the "Hunting of the Hare"[136] and the like--to
take examples necessarily a little later than our time.

[Footnote 135: Early English Prose Romances (2d ed., London, 1858), i. 71. The text of this
is only Deloney's and sixteenth century, but much of the matter must be far earlier.]

[Footnote 136: Weber, iii. 177.]

[Sidenote: Effect of the fabliaux on language.]

For in these curious compositions the esprit Gaulois found itself completely at home; indeed
some have held that here it hit upon its most characteristic and peculiar development. The
wonderful faculty for expression--for giving, if not the supreme, yet the adequate and technically
masterly dress to any kind of literary production--which has been the note of French literature
throughout, and which was never more its note than at this time, enabled the language, as we
have seen and shall see, to keep as by an easy sculling movement far ahead of all its competitors.
But in other departments, with one or two exceptions, the union of temper and craft, of inspiration
and execution, was not quite perfect. Here there was no misalliance. As the language lost the
rougher, fresher music which gives such peculiar attraction to the chansons, as it disused
itself to the varied trills, the half-inarticulate warblings which constitute the charm of
the lyrics, so it acquired the precision, the flexibility, the netteté, which satiric treatment
of the follies and evil chances of life, the oddities of manners and morals, require. It became
bright, if a little hard, easy, if a little undistinguished, capable of slyness, of innuendo,
of "malice," but not quite so capable as it had been of the finer and vaguer suggestions and
aspirations.

[Sidenote: And on narrative.]

Above all, these fabliaux served as an exercise-ground for the practice in which French was
to become almost if not quite supreme, the practice of narrative. In the longer romances, which
for a century or a century and a half preceded the fabliaux, the art of narration, as has been
more than once noticed, was little attended to, and indeed had little scope. The chansons had
a common form, or something very like it, which almost dispensed the trouvère from devoting
much pains to the individual conduct of the story. The most abrupt transitions were accustomed,
indeed expected; minor incidents received very little attention; the incessant fighting secured
the attention of the probable hearers by itself; the more grandiose and striking incidents--the
crowning of Prince Louis and the indignation of William at his sister's ingratitude, for instance--were
not "engineered" or led up to in any way, but left to act in mass and by assault.

[Sidenote: Conditions of fabliau-writing.]

The smaller range and more delicate--however indelicate--argument of the fabliaux not only
invited but almost necessitated a different kind of handling. The story had to draw to point
in (on an average) two or three hundred lines at most--there are fabliaux of a thousand lines,
and fabliaux of thirty or forty, but the average is as just stated. The incidents had to be
adjusted for best effect, neither too many nor too few. The treatment had to be mainly provocative--an
appeal in some cases by very coarse means indeed to very coarse nerves, in others by finer
devices addressed to senses more tickle o' the sere. And so grew up that unsurpassed and hardly
matched product the French short story, where, if it is in perfection, hardly a word is thrown
away, and not a word missed that is really wanted.

[Sidenote: The appearance of irony.]

The great means for doing this in literature is irony; and irony appears in the fabliaux as
it had hardly done since Lucian. Take, for instance, this opening of a piece, the rest of which
is at least as irreverent, considerably less quotable, but not much less pointed:--

    "Quant Dieus ot estoré lo monde,
    Si con il est à la reonde,
    Et quanque il convit dedans,
    Trois ordres establir de genz,
    Et fist el siecle demoranz
    Chevalers, clers et laboranz.
    Les chevalers toz asena
    As terres, et as clers dona
    Les aumosnes et les dimages;
    Puis asena les laborages
    As laborenz, por laborer.
    Qant ce ot fet, sanz demeler
    D'iluec parti, et s'en ala."

What two orders were left, and how the difficulty of there being nothing left for them was
got over, may be found by the curious in the seventy-sixth fabliau of the third volume of the
collection so often quoted. But the citation given will show that there is nothing surprising
in the eighteenth-century history, literary or poetical, of a country which could produce such
a piece, certainly not later than the thirteenth. Even Voltaire could not put the thing more
neatly or with a more complete freedom from superfluous words.

[Sidenote: Fables proper.]

It will doubtless have been observed that the fabliau--though the word is simply fabula in
one of its regular Romance metamorphoses, and though the method is sufficiently Æsopic--is
not a "fable" in the sense more especially assigned to the term. Yet the mediæval languages,
especially French and Latin, were by no means destitute of fables properly so called. On the
contrary, it would appear that it was precisely during our present period that the rather meagre
Æsopisings of Phædrus and Babrius were expanded into the fuller collection of beast-stories
which exists in various forms, the chief of them being the Ysopet (the name generally given
to the class in Romance) of Marie de France, the somewhat later Lyoner Ysopet (as its editor,
Dr Förster, calls it), and the original of this latter, the Latin elegiacs of the so-called
Anonymus Neveleti.[137] The collection of Marie is interesting, at least, because of the author,
whose more famous Lais, composed, it would seem, at the Court of Henry III. of England about
the meeting of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, and forming a sort of offshoot less of
the substance of the Arthurian story than of its spirit, are among the most delightful relics
of mediæval poetry. But the Lyons book perhaps exhibits more of the characteristic which, evident
enough in the fabliau proper, discovers, after passing as by a channel through the beast-fable,
its fullest and most famous form in the world-renowned Romance of Reynard the Fox, one of the
capital works of the Middle Ages, and with the sister but contrasted Romance of the Rose, as
much the distinguishing literary product of the thirteenth century as the romances proper--Carlovingian,
Arthurian, and Classical--are of the twelfth.

[Footnote 137: Works of Marie; ed. Roquefort, Paris, 1820; or ed. Warnke, Halle, 1885. The
Lyoner Ysopet, with the Anonymus; ed. Förster, Heilbronn, 1882.]

[Sidenote: Reynard the Fox.]

Not, of course, that the antiquity of the Reynard story itself[138] does not mount far higher
than the thirteenth century. No two things are more remarkable as results of that comparative
and simultaneous study of literature, to which this series hopes to give some little assistance,
than the way in which, on the one hand, a hundred years seem to be in the Middle Ages but a
day, in the growth of certain kinds, and on the other a day sometimes appears to do the work
of a hundred years. We have seen how in the last two or three decades of the twelfth century
the great Arthurian legend seems suddenly to fill the whole literary scene, after being previously
but a meagre chronicler's record or invention. The growth of the Reynard story, though to some
extent contemporaneous, was slower; but it was really the older of the two. Before the middle
of this century, as we have seen, there was really no Arthurian story worthy the name; it would
seem that by that time the Reynard legend had already taken not full but definite form in Latin,
and there is no reasonable reason for scepticism as to its existence in vernacular tradition,
though perhaps not in vernacular writing, for many years, perhaps for more than one century,
earlier.

[Footnote 138: Roman du (should be de) Renart: ed. Méon and Chabaille, 5 vols., Paris, 1826-35;
ed. Martin, 3 vols. text and 1 critical observations, Strasburg, 1882-87. Reincke de Vos, ed.
Prien, Halle, 1887, with a valuable bibliography. Reinaert, ed. Martin, Paderborn, 1874. Reinardus
Vulpes, ed. Mone, Stuttgart, 1834. Reinhart Fuchs, ed. Grimm, Berlin, 1832. On the story there
is perhaps nothing better than Carlyle, as quoted supra.]

[Sidenote: Order of texts.]

It was not to be expected but that so strange, so interesting, and so universally popular a
story as that of King Noble and his not always loving subjects, should have been made, as usual,
the battle-ground of literary fancy and of that general tendency of mankind to ferocity, which,
unluckily, the study of belles lettres does not seem very appreciably to soften. Assisted by
the usual fallacy of antedating MSS. in the early days of palæographic study, and by their
prepossessions as Germans, some early students of the Reynard story made out much too exclusive
and too early claims, as to possession by right of invention, for the country in which Reynard
has no doubt, for the last four centuries or so, been much more of a really popular hero than
anywhere else. Investigation and comparison, however, have had more healing effects here than
in other cases; and since the acknowledgment of the fact that the very early Middle High German
version of Henry the Glichezare, itself of the end of the twelfth century, is a translation
from the French, there has not been much serious dispute about the order of the Reynard romances
as we actually have them. That is to say, if the Latin Isengrimus--the oldest Reinardus Vulpes--of
1150 or thereabouts is actually the oldest text, the older branches of the French Renart pretty
certainly come next, with the High German following a little later, and the Low German Reincke
de Vos and the Flemish Reinaert a little later still. The Southern Romance nations do not seem--indeed
the humour is essentially Northern--to have adopted Reynard with as much enthusiasm as they
showed towards the Romances; and our English forms were undoubtedly late adaptations from foreign
originals.

[Sidenote: Place of origin.]

If, however, this account of the texts may be said to be fairly settled, the same cannot of
course be said as to the origin of the story. Here there are still champions of the German
claim, whose number is increased by those who stickle for a definite "Low" German origin. Some
French patriots, with a stronger case than they generally have, still maintain the story to
be purely French in inception. I have not myself seen any reason to change the opinion I formed
some fifteen years ago, to the effect that it seems likely that the original language of the
epic is French, but French of a Walloon or Picard dialect, and that it was written somewhere
between the Seine and the Rhine.

The character and accomplishment of the story, however, are matters of much more purely literary
interest than the rather barren question of the probable--it is not likely that it will ever
be the proved--date or place of origin of this famous thing. The fable in general, and the
beast-fable in particular, are among the very oldest and most universal of the known forms
of literature. A fresh and special development of it might have taken place in any country
at any time. It did, as a matter of fact, take place somewhere about the twelfth century or
earlier, and somewhere in the central part of the northern coast district of the old Frankish
empire.

[Sidenote: The French form.]

As usual with mediæval work, when it once took hold on the imagination of writers and hearers,
the bulk is very great, especially in the French forms, which, taking them altogether, cannot
fall much short of a hundred thousand lines. This total, however, includes developments--Le
Couronnement Renart, Renart le Nouvel, and, later than our present period, a huge and still
not very well-known thing called Renart le Contrefait, which are distinct additions to the
first conception of the story. Yet even that first conception is not a story in the single
sense. Its thirty thousand lines or thereabouts are divided into a considerable number of what
are called branches, attributed to authors sometimes anonymous, sometimes named, but never,
except in the one case of Renart le Bestourné, known.[139] And it is always difficult and sometimes
impossible to determine in what relation these branches stand to the main trunk, or which of
them is the main trunk. The two editors of the Roman, Méon and Herr Martin, arrange them in
different orders; and I do not think it would be in the least difficult to make out a good
case for an order, or even a large number of orders, different still.[140]

[Footnote 139: This, which is not so much a branch as an independent fabliau, is attributed
to Ruteboeuf, v. infra.]

[Footnote 140: The Teutonic versions are consolidated into a more continuous story. But of
the oldest High German version, that of the Glichezare, we have but part, and Reincke de Vos
does not reach seven thousand verses. The French forms are therefore certainly to be preferred.]

By comparison, however, with the versions in other languages, it seems not very doubtful that
the complaint of Isengrim the Wolf as to the outrages committed by Reynard on the complainant's
personal comfort, and the honour of Hersent his wife--a complaint laid formally before King
Noble the Lion--forms, so far as any single thing can be said to form it, the basis and beginning
of the Reynard story. The multiplication of complaints by other beasts, the sufferings inflicted
by Reynard on the messengers sent to summon him to Court, and his escapes, by mixture of fraud
and force, when he is no longer able to avoid putting in an appearance, supply the natural
continuation.

[Sidenote: Its complications.]

But from this, at least in the French versions, the branches diverge, cross, and repeat or
contradict each other with an altogether bewildering freedom. Sometimes, for long passages
together, as in the interesting fytte, "How Reynard hid himself among the Skins,"[141] the
author seems to forget the general purpose altogether, and to devote himself to something quite
different--in this case the description of the daily life and pursuits of a thirteenth-century
sportsman of easy means. Often the connection with the general story is kept only by the introduction
of the most obvious and perfunctory devices--an intrigue with Dame Hersent, a passing trick
played on Isengrim, and so forth.

[Footnote 141: Méon, iii. 82; Martin, ii. 43.]

[Sidenote: Unity of spirit.]

[Sidenote: The Rise of Allegory.]

Nevertheless the whole is knit together, to a degree altogether unusual in a work of such magnitude,
due to many different hands, by an extraordinary unity of tone and temper. This tone and this
temper are to some extent conditioned by the Rise of Allegory, the great feature, in succession
to the outburst of Romance, of our present period. We do not find in the original Renart branches
the abstracting of qualities and the personification of abstractions which appear in later
developments, and which are due to the popularity of the Romance of the Rose, if it be not
more strictly correct to say that the popularity of the Romance of the Rose was due to the
taste for allegory. Jacquemart Giélée, the author of Renart le Nouvel, might personify Renardie
and work his beast-personages into knights of tourney; the clerk of Troyes, who later wrote
Renart le Contrefait, might weave a sort of encyclopædia into his piece. But the authors of
the "Ancien Renart" knew better. With rare lapses, they exhibit wonderful art in keeping their
characters beasts, while assigning to them human arts; or rather, to put the matter with more
correctness, they pass over the not strictly beast-like performances of Renart and the others
with such entire unconcern, with such a perfect freedom from tedious after-thought of explanation,
that no sense of incongruity occurs. The illustrations of Méon's Renart, which show us the
fox painfully clasping in his forelegs a stick four times his own length, show the inferiority
of the nineteenth century. Renart may beat le vilain (everybody beats the poor vilain) as hard
as he likes in the old French text; it comes all naturally. A neat copper-plate engraving,
in the best style of sixty or seventy years ago, awakes distrust.

[Sidenote: The satire of Renart.]

The general fable is so familiar that not much need be said about it. But it is, I think, not
unfair to say that the German and Flemish versions, from the latter of which Caxton's and all
later English forms seem to be copied, are, if better adjusted to a continuous story, less
saturated with the quintessence of satiric criticism of life than the French Renart. The fault
of excessive coarseness of thought and expression, which has been commented on in the fabliaux,
recurs here to the fullest extent; but it is atoned for and sweetened by an even greater measure
of irony. As to the definite purposes of this irony it would not be well to be too sure. The
passage quoted on a former page will show with what completely fearless satire the trouvères
treated Church and State, God and Man. It is certain that they had no love of any kind for
the clergy, who were not merely their rivals but their enemies; and it is not probable they
had much for the knightly order, who were their patrons. But it is never in the very least
degree safe to conclude, in a mediæval writer, from that satire of abuses, which is so frequent,
to the distinct desire of reform or revolution, which is so rare. The satire of the Renart--and
it is all the more delightful--is scarcely in the smallest degree political, is only in an
interesting archæological way of the time ecclesiastical or religious; but it is human, perennial,
contemptuous of mere time and circumstance, throughout.

[Sidenote: The Fox himself.]

It cannot, no doubt, be called kindly satire--French satire very rarely is. Renart, the only
hero, though a hero sometimes uncommonly hard bested, is a furred and four-footed Jonathan
Wild. He appears to have a creditable paternal affection for Masters Rovel, Percehaie, and
the other cubs; and despite his own extreme licence of conjugal conduct, only one or two branches
make Dame Hermeline, his wife, either false to him or ill-treated by him. In these respects,
as in the other that he is scarcely ever outwitted, he has the advantage of Jonathan. But otherwise
I think our great eighteenth-century maufès was a better fellow than Renart, because he was
much less purely malignant. I do not think that Jonathan often said his prayers; but he probably
never went to bed, as Reynard did upon the hay-mow, after performing his devotions in a series
of elaborate curses upon all his enemies. The fox is so clever that one never dislikes him,
and generally admires him; but he is entirely compact of all that is worst, not merely in beast-nature
but in humanity. And it is a triumph of the writers that, this being so, we at once can refrain
from disliking him, and are not tempted to like him illegitimately.

[Sidenote: His circle.]

The trouvères did not trouble themselves to work out any complete character among the many
whom they grouped round this great personage; but they left none without touches of vivification
and verisimilitude. The female beasts--Dame Fière or Orgueilleuse, the lioness, Hersent, the
she-wolf, Hermeline, the vixen, and the rest--are too much tinged with that stock slander of
feminine character which was so common in the Middle Ages. And each is rather too much of a
type, a fault which may be also found with their lords. Yet all of these--Bruin and Brichemer,
Coart and Chanticleer, Tybert and Primaut, Hubert and Roonel--have the liveliest touches, not
merely of the coarsely labelling kind, but of the kind that makes a character alive. And, save
as concerns the unfortunate capons and gelines whom Renart consumes, so steadily and with such
immunity, it cannot be said that their various misfortunes are ever incurred without a valid
excuse in poetical justice. Isengrim, the chief of them all, is an especial case in point.
Although he is Chief Constable, he is just as much of a rascal and a malefactor as Renart himself,
with the additional crime of stupidity. One is disposed to believe that, if domiciliary visits
were made to their various abodes, Malpertuis would by no means stand alone as a bad example
of a baronial abode. Renart is indeed constantly spoken of as Noble's "baron." Yet it would
be a great mistake to take this epic, as it has been sometimes taken, for a protest against
baronial suppression. A sense of this, no doubt, counts--as do senses of many other oppressions
that are done under the sun. But it is the satire on life as a whole that is uppermost; and
that is what makes the poem, or collection of poems, so remarkable. It is hard, coarse, prosaic
except for the range and power of its fancy, libellous enough on humanity from behind its stalking-brutes.
But it is true, if an exaggeration of the truth; and its constant hugging of the facts of life
supplies the strangest possible contrast to the graceful but shadowy land of romance which
we have left in former chapters. We all know the burial-scene of Launcelot--later, no doubt,
in its finest form, but in suggestion and spirit of the time with which we are dealing. Let
us now consider briefly the burial-scene of Renart.

[Sidenote: The burial of Renart.]

When Méon, the excellent first editor of the collection, put, as was reason, the branch entitled
"La Mort Renart" last, he was a little troubled by the consideration that several of the beasts
whom in former branches Renart himself has brought to evil ends reappear and take part in his
funeral. But this scarcely argued a sufficient appreciation of the true spirit of the cycle.
The beasts, though perfectly lively abstractions, are, after all, abstractions in a way, and
you cannot kill an abstraction. Nay, the author, with a really grand final touch of the pervading
satire which is the key of the whole, gives us to understand at the last that Renart (though
he has died not once, but twice, in the course of the fytte) is not really dead at all, and
that when Dame Hermeline persuades the complaisant ambassadors to report to the Lion-King that
they have seen the tomb with Renart inscribed upon it, the fact was indeed true but the meaning
false, inasmuch as it was another Renart altogether. Indeed the true Renart is clearly immortal.

Nevertheless, as it is his mission, and that of his poets, to satirise all the things of Life,
so must Death also be satirised in his person and with his aid. The branch, though it is probably
not a very early one, is of an admirable humour, and an uncompromising truth after a fashion,
which makes the elaborate realism and pessimism of some other periods look singularly poor,
thin, and conventional. The author, for the keeping of his story, begins by showing the doomed
fox more than a little "failed"--the shadow of fate dwelling coldly beforehand on him. He is
badly mauled at the opening (though, it is true, he takes vengeance for it) by monks whose
hen-roost he is robbing, and when he meets Coart the hare, sur son destrier, with a vilain
whom he has captured (this is a mark of lateness, some of the verisimilitude of the early time
having been dropped), he plays him no tricks. Nay, when Isengrim and he begin to play chess
he is completely worsted by his ancient butt, who at last takes, in consequence of an imprudent
stake of the penniless Fox, a cruel but appropriate vengeance for his former wrongs. Renart
is comforted to some extent by his old love, Queen Fière the lioness; but pain, and wounds,
and defeat have brought him near death, and he craves a priest. Bernard the Ass, Court-Archpriest,
is ready, and admonishes the penitent with the most becoming gravity and unction. The confession,
as might be expected, is something impudent; and the penitent very frankly stipulates that
if he gets well his oath of repentance is not to stand good. But it looks as if he were to
be taken at the worse side of his word, and he falls into a swoon which is mistaken for death.
The Queen laments him with perfect openness; but the excellent Noble is a philosophic husband
as well as a good king, and sets about the funeral of Renart

    ("Jamais si bon baron n'avai,"

says he) with great earnestness. Hermeline and her orphans are fetched from Malpertuis, and
the widow makes heartrending moan, as does Cousin Grimbart when the news is brought to him.
The vigils of the dead are sung, and all the beasts who have hated Renart, and whom he has
affronted in his lifetime, assemble in decent mourning and perform the service, with the ceremony
of the most well-trained choir. Afterwards they "wake" the corpse through the night a little
noisily; but on the morrow the obsequies are resumed "in the best and most orgilous manner,"
with a series of grave-side speeches which read like a designed satire on those common in France
at the present day. A considerable part of the good Archpriest's own sermon is unfortunately
not reproducible in sophisticated times; but every one can appreciate his tender reference
to the deceased's prowess in daring all dangers--

    "Pur avoir vostre ventre plaine,
    Et pour porter à Hermeline
    Vostre fame, coc ou geline
    Chapon, ou oie, ou gras oison"--

for, as he observes in a sorrowful parenthesis, "anything was in season if you could only get
hold of it." Brichemer the Stag notes how Reynard had induced the monks to observe their vows
by making them go to bed late and get up early to watch their fowls. But when Bruin the Bear
has dug his grave, and holy water has been thrown on him, and Bruin is just going to shovel
the earth--behold! Reynard wakes up, catches Chanticleer (who is holding the censer) by the
neck, and bolts into a thick pleached plantation. Still, despite this resurrection, his good
day is over, and a levée en masse of the Lion's people soon surrounds him, catches him up,
and forces him to release Chanticleer, who, nothing afraid, challenges him to mortal combat
on fair terms, beats him, and leaves him for dead in the lists. And though he manages to pay
Rohart the Raven and his wife (who think to strip his body) in kind, he reaches Malpertuis
dead-beat; and we feel that even his last shift and the faithful complaisance of Grimbart will
never leave him quite the same Fox again.

The defects which distinguish almost all mediæval poetry are no doubt discoverable here. There
is some sophistication of the keeping in the episodes of Coart and Chanticleer, and the termination
is almost too audacious in the sort of choice of happy or unhappy ending, triumph or defeat
for the hero, which it leaves us. Yet this very audacity suits the whole scheme; and the part
dealing with the death (or swoon) and burial is assuredly one of the best things of its kind
in French, almost one of the best things in or out of it. The contrast between the evident
delight of the beasts at getting rid of Renart and their punctilious discharge of ceremonial
duties, the grave parody of rites and conventions, remind us more of Swift or Lucian than of
any French writer, even Rabelais or Voltaire. It happened that some ten or twelve years had
passed between the time when the present writer had last opened Renart (except for mere reference
now and then) and the time when he refreshed his memory of it for the purposes of the present
volume. It is not always in such cases that the second judgment exactly confirms the first;
but here, not merely in the instance of this particular branch but almost throughout, I can
honestly say that I put down the Roman de Renart with even a higher idea of its literary merit
than that with which I had taken it up.

[Sidenote: The Romance of the Rose.]

The second great romance which distinguishes the thirteenth century in France stands, as we
may say, to one side of the Roman de Renart as the fabliaux do to the other side. But, though
complex in fewer pieces, the Roman de la Rose[142] is, like the Roman de Renart, a complex,
not a single work; and its two component parts are distinguished from one another by a singular
change of tone and temper. It is the later and larger part of the Rose which brings it close
to Renart: the smaller and earlier is conceived in a spirit entirely different, though not
entirely alien, and one which, reinforcing the satiric drift of the fabliaux and Renart itself,
influenced almost the entire literary production in belles lettres at least, and sometimes
out of them, for more than two centuries throughout Europe.

[Footnote 142: Ed. Michel. Paris, 1864. And at no other time probably would any one, choosing
to make a continuation, have carried it out by putting such entirely different wine into the
same bottle. Of William himself little is known, or rather nothing, except that he must have
been, as his continuator certainly was, a native of the Loire district; so that the Rose is
a product of Central, not, like Renart, of Northern France, and exhibits, especially in the
Lorris portion, an approximation to Provençal spirit and form.

The use of personification and abstraction, especially in relation to love-matters, had not
been unknown in the troubadour poetry itself and in the northern verse, lyrical and other,
which grew up beside or in succession to it. It rose no doubt partly, if not wholly, from the
constant habit in sermons and theological treatises of treating the Seven Deadly Sins and other
abstractions as entities. Every devout or undevout frequenter of the Church in those times
knew "Accidia"[143] and Avarice, Anger and Pride, as bodily rather than ghostly enemies, furnished
with a regular uniform, appearing in recognised circumstances and companies, acting like human
beings. And these were by no means the only sacred uses of allegory.

[Footnote 143: "Sloth" is a rather unhappy substitute for Accidia ([Greek: akêdeia]), the gloomy
and impious despair and indifference to good living and even life, of which sloth itself is
but a partial result.]

[Sidenote: William of Lorris and Jean de Meung.]

When William of Lorris, probably at some time in the fourth decade of the thirteenth century,
set to work to write the Romance of the Rose, he adjusted this allegorical handling to the
purposes of love-poetry with an ingenious intricacy never before attained. It has been the
fashion almost ever since the famous Romance was rescued from the ignorant and contemptuous
oblivion into which it had fallen, to praise Jean de Meung's part at the expense of that due
to William of Lorris. But this is hard to justify either on directly æsthetic or on historical
principles of criticism. In the first place, there can be no question that, vitally as he changed
the spirit, Jean de Meung was wholly indebted to his predecessor for the form--the form of
half-pictorial, half-poetic allegory, which is the great characteristic of the poem, and which
gave it the enormous attraction and authority that it so long possessed. In the second place,
clever as Jean de Meung is, and more thoroughly in harmony as he may be with the esprit gaulois,
his work is on a much lower literary level than that of his predecessor. Jean de Meung in the
latter and larger part of the poem simply stuffs into it stock satire on women, stock learning,
stock semi-pagan morality. He is, it is true, tolerably actual; he shares with the fabliau-writers
and the authors of Renart a firm grasp on the perennial rascalities and meannesses of human
nature. The negative commendation that he is "no fool" may be very heartily bestowed upon him.
But he is a little commonplace and more than a little prosaic. There is amusement in him, but
no charm: and where (that is to say, in large spaces) there is no amusement, there is very
little left. Nor, except for the inappropriate exhibition of learning and the strange misuse
of poetical (at least of verse) allegory, can he be said to be eminently characteristic of
his own time. His very truth to general nature prevents that; while his literary ability, considerable
as it is, is hardly sufficient to clothe his universally true reflections in a universally
acceptable form.

[Sidenote: The first part.]

The first four thousand and odd lines of the Romance, on the other hand--for beyond them it
is known that the work of William of Lorris does not go--contain matter which may seem but
little connected with criticism of life, arranged in a form completely out of fashion. But
they, beyond all question, contain also the first complete presentation of a scheme, a mode,
an atmosphere, which for centuries enchained, because they expressed, the poetical thought
of the time, and which, for those who can reach the right point of view, can develop the right
organs of appreciation, possess an extraordinary, indeed a unique charm. I should rank this
first part of the Roman de la Rose high among the books which if a man does not appreciate
he cannot even distantly understand the Middle Ages; indeed there is perhaps no single one
which on the serious side contains such a master-key to their inmost recesses.

[Sidenote: Its capital value.]

To comprehend a Gothic cathedral the Rose should be as familiar as the Dies Iræ. For the spirit
of it is indeed, though faintly "decadent," even more the mediæval spirit than that of the
Arthurian legend, precisely for the reason that it is less universal, less of humanity generally,
more of this particular phase of humanity. And as it is opposed to, rather than complementary
of, the religious side of the matter in one direction, so it opposes and completes the satirical
side, of which we have heard so much in this chapter, and the purely fighting and adventurous
part, which we have dealt with in others, not excluding by any means in this half-reflective,
half-contrasting office, the philosophical side also. Yet when men pray and fight, when they
sneer and speculate, they are constrained to be very like themselves and each other. They are
much freer in their dreams: and the Romance of the Rose, if it has not much else of life, is
like it in this way--that it too is a dream.

As such it quite honestly holds itself out. The author lays it down, supporting himself with
the opinion of another "qui ot nom macrobes," that dreams are quite serious things. At any
rate he will tell a dream of his own, a dream which befell him in his twentieth year, a dream
wherein was nothing

    "Qui avenu trestout ne soit
    Si com le songes racantoit."

And if any one wishes to know how the romance telling this dream shall be called--

    "Ce est li Rommanz de la Rose,
    Ou l'ars d'amorz est tote enclose."

[Sidenote: The rose-garden.]

The poem itself opens with a description of a dewy morn in May, a description then not so hackneyed
as, chiefly from this very instance, it afterwards became, and in itself at once "setting,"
so to speak, the frame of gracious decorative imagery in which the poet works. He "threaded
a silver needle" (an odd but not unusual mediæval pastime was sewing stitches in the sleeve)
and strolled, cousant ses manches, towards a river-bank. Then, after bathing his face and seeing
the bright gravel flashing through the water, he continued his stroll down-stream, till he
saw in front of him a great park (for this translates the mediæval verger much better than
"orchard"), on the wall of which were portrayed certain images[144]--Hatred, Felony, Villainy,
Covetousness, Avarice, Envy, Sadness, Old Age, Hypocrisy, and Poverty. These personages, who
strike the allegoric and personifying note of the poem, are described at varying length, the
last three being perhaps the best. Despite these uninviting figures, the Lover (as he is soon
called) desires violently to enter the park; but for a long time he can find no way in, till
at length Dame Oyseuse (Idleness) admits him at a postern. She is a very attractive damsel
herself; and she tells the Lover that Delight and all his Court haunt the park, and that he
has had the ugly images made, apparently as skeletons at the feast, to heighten, not to dash,
enjoyment. Entering, the Lover thinks he is in the Earthly Paradise, and after a time he finds
the fair company listening to the singing of Dame Lyesse (Pleasure), with much dancing, music,
and entertainment of jongleurs and jongleresses to help pass the time.

[Footnote 144: "Seven" says the verse chapter-heading, which is a feature of the poem; but
the actual text does not mention the number, and it will be seen that there were in fact ten.
The author of the headings was no doubt thinking of the Seven Deadly Sins.]

Courtesy asks him to join in the karole (dance), and he does so, giving full description of
her, of Lyesse, of Delight, and of the God of Love himself, with his bow-bearer Sweet-Glances,
who carries in each hand five arrows--in the right Beauty, Simpleness, Frankness, Companionship,
Fair-Seeming; in the left Pride, Villainy,[145] Shame, Despair, and "New-Thought"--i.e., Fickleness.
Other personages--sometimes with the same names, sometimes with different--follow in the train;
Cupid watches the Lover that he may take shot at him, and the tale is interrupted by an episode
giving the story of Narcissus. Meanwhile the Lover has seen among the flowers of the garden
one rose-bud on which he fixes special desires. The thorns keep him off; and Love, having him
at vantage, empties the right-hand quiver on him. He yields himself prisoner, and a dialogue
between captive and captor follows. Love locks his heart with a gold key; and after giving
him a long sermon on his duties, illustrated from the Round Table romances and elsewhere, vanishes,
leaving him in no little pain, and still unable to get at the Rose. Suddenly in his distress
there appears to him

    "Un valet buen et avenant
    Bel-Acueil se faisoit clamer,"

and it seems that he was the son of Courtesy.

[Footnote 145: Vilenie is never an easy word to translate: it means general misconduct and
disagreeable behaviour.]

[Sidenote: "Danger."]

Bialacoil (to give him his Chaucerian[146] Englishing) is most obliging, and through his help
the Lover has nearly reached the Rose, when an ugly personage named Danger in turn makes his
appearance. Up to this time there is no very important difficulty in the interpretation of
the allegory; but the learned are not at one as to what "Danger" means. The older explanation,
and the one to which I myself still incline as most natural and best suiting what follows,
is that Danger is the representative of the beloved one's masculine and other guardians--her
husband, father, brother, mother, and so forth. Others, however, see in him only subjective
obstacles--the coyness, or caprice, or coquettishness of the Beloved herself. But these never
troubled a true lover to any great extent; and besides they seem to have been provided for
by the arrows in the left hand of Love's bow-bearer, and by Shame (v. infra). At any rate Danger's
proceedings are of a most kill-joy nature. He starts from his hiding-place--

    "Grans fu, et noirs et hericiés,
    S'ot les iex rouges comme feus,
    Le nés froncié, le vis hideus,
    Et s'escrie comme forcenés."

[Footnote 146: I am well aware of everything that has been said about and against the Chaucerian
authorship of the English Rose. But until the learned philologists who deny that authorship
in whole or in part agree a little better among themselves, they must allow literary critics
at least to suspend their judgment.]

He abuses Bialacoil for bringing the Lover to the Rose, and turns the Lover out of the park,
while Bialacoil flies.

[Sidenote: "Reason."]

To the disconsolate suitor appears Reason, and does not speak comfortable words. She is described
as a middle-aged lady of a comely and dignified appearance, crowned, and made specially in
God's image and likeness. She tells him that if he had not put himself under the guidance of
Idleness, Love would not have wounded him; that besides Danger, he has made her own daughter
Shame his foe, and also Male-Bouche (Scandal, Gossip, Evil-Speaking), the third and most formidable
guardian of the Rose. He ought never to have surrendered to Love. In the service of that power

               "il a plus poine
    Que n'ont hermite ne blanc moine;
    La poine en est démesurée,
    Et la joie a courte durée."

The Lover does not take this sermon well. He is Love's: she may go about her business, which
she does. He bethinks him that he has a companion, Amis (the Friend), who has always been faithful;
and he will go to him in his trouble. Indeed Love had bidden him do so. The Friend is obliging
and consoling, and says that he knows Danger. His bark is worse than his bite, and if he is
spoken softly to he will relent. The Lover takes the advice with only partial success. Danger,
at first robustious, softens so far as to say that he has no objection to the Lover loving,
only he had better keep clear of his roses. The Friend represents this as an important point
gained; and as the next step Pity and Frankness go as his ambassadresses to Danger, who allows
Bialacoil to return to him and take him once more to see the Rose, more beautiful than ever.
He even, assisted by Venus, is allowed to kiss his love.

[Sidenote: "Shame" and "Scandal."]

This is very agreeable: but it arouses the two other guardians of whom Reason has vainly warned
him, Shame and Evil-Speaking, or Scandal. The latter wakes Jealousy, Fear follows, and Fear
and Shame stir up Danger. He keeps closer watch, Jealousy digs a trench round the rose-bush
and builds a tower where Bialacoil is immured: and the Lover, his case only made worse by the
remembered savour of the Rose on his lips,[147] is left helpless outside. But as the rubric
of the poem has it--

    "Cyendroit trespassa Guillaume
    De Lorris, et n'en fist plus pseaulme."

[Footnote 147:

    "Car ge suis a greignor meschief
    Por la joie que j'ai perdue.
    Que s'onques ne l'éussi éue."

Dante undoubtedly had this in his mind when he wrote the immortal Nessun maggior dolore. All
this famous passage, l. 4557 sq., is admirable.]

[Sidenote: The later poem.]

[Sidenote: "False-Seeming."]

The work which forty years later Jean de Meung (some say at royal suggestion) added to the
piece, so as to make it five times its former length, has been spoken of generally already,
and needs less notice in detail. Jean de Meung takes up the theme by once more introducing
Reason, whose remonstrances, with the Lover's answers, take nearly half as much room as the
whole story hitherto. Then reappears the Friend, who is twice as long-winded as Reason, and
brings the tale up to more than ten thousand lines already. At last Love himself takes some
pity of his despairing vassal, and besieges the tower where Bialacoil is confined. This leads
to the introduction of the most striking and characteristic figure of the second part, Faux-Semblant,
a variety of Reynard. Bialacoil is freed: but Danger still guards the Rose. Love, beaten, invokes
the help of his mother, who sends Nature and Genius to his aid. They talk more than anybody
else. But Venus has to come herself before Danger is vanquished and the Lover plucks the Rose.

[Sidenote: Contrast of the parts.]

The appeal of this famous poem is thus twofold, though the allegorical form in which the appeal
is conveyed is the same. In the first part all the love-poetry of troubadour and trouvère is
gathered up and presented under the guise of a graceful dreamy symbolism, a little though not
much sicklied o'er with learning. In the second the satiric tendency of the Fabliaux and Renart
is carried still further, with an admixture of not often apposite learning to a much greater
extent. Narcissus was superfluous where William of Lorris introduced him, but Pygmalion and
his image, inserted at great length by Jean de Meung, when after twenty thousand lines the
catastrophe is at length approaching, are felt to be far greater intruders.

[Sidenote: Value of both, and charm of the first.]

The completeness of the representation of the time given by the poem is of course enormously
increased by this second part, and the individual touches, though rather lost in the wilderness
of "skipping octosyllables," are wonderfully sharp and true at times. Yet to some judgments
at any rate the charm of the piece will seem mostly to have vanished when Bialacoil is once
shut up in his tower. In mere poetry Jean de Meung is almost infinitely the inferior of William
of Lorris: and though the latter may receive but contemptuous treatment from persons who demand
"messages," "meanings," and so forth, others will find message and meaning enough in his allegorical
presentation of the perennial quest, of "the way of a man with a maid," and more than enough
beauty in the pictures with which he has adorned it. He is indeed the first great word-painter
of the Middle Ages, and for long--almost to the close of them--most poets simply copied him,
while even the greatest used him as a starting-point and source of hints.[148] Also besides
pictures he has music--music not very brilliant or varied, but admirably matching his painting,
soft, dreamy, not so much monotonous as uniform with a soothing uniformity. Few poets deserve
better than William of Lorris the famous hyperbole which Greek furnished in turn to Latin and
to English. He is indeed "softer than sleep," and, as soft sleep is, laden with gracious and
various visions.

[Footnote 148: The following of the Rose would take a volume, even treated as the poem itself
is here. The English version has been referred to: Italian naturalised it early in a sonnet
cycle, Il Fiore. Every country welcomed it, but the actual versions are as nothing to the imitations
and the influence.]

[Sidenote: Marie de France and Ruteboeuf.]

The great riches of French literature at this time, and the necessity of arranging this history
rather with a view to "epoch-making" kinds and books than to interesting individual authors,
make attention to many of these latter impossible here. Thus Marie de France[149] yields to
few authors of our two centuries in charm and interest for the reader; yet for us she must
be regarded chiefly as one of the practitioners of the fable, and as the chief practitioner
of the Lai, which in her hands is merely a subdivision of the general romance on a smaller
scale. So, again, the trouvère Ruteboeuf, who has been the subject of critical attention, a
little disproportionate perhaps, considering the vast amount of work as good as his which has
hardly any critical notice, but still not undeserved, must serve us rather as an introducer
of the subject of dramatic poetry than as an individual, though his work is in the bulk of
it non-dramatic, and though almost all of it is full of interest in itself.

[Footnote 149: See note above, p. 286.]

Ruteboeuf[150] (a name which seems to be a professional nom de guerre rather than a patronymic)
was married in 1260, and has devoted one of his characteristic poems, half "complaints," half
satires, to this not very auspicious event. For the rest, it is rather conjectured than known
that his life must have filled the greater part, if not the whole, of the last two-thirds of
the thirteenth century, thus including the dates of both parts of the Rose within it. The tendencies
of the second part of the great poem appear in Ruteboeuf more distinctly than those of the
earlier, though, like both, his work shows the firm grip which allegory was exercising on all
poetry, and indeed on all literature. He has been already referred to as having written an
outlying "branch" of Renart; and not a few of his other poems--Le Dit des Cordeliers, Frère
Denise, and others--are of the class of the Fabliaux: indeed Ruteboeuf may be taken as the
type and chief figure to us of the whole body of fabliau-writing trouvères. Besides the marriage
poem, we have others on his personal affairs, the chief of which is speakingly entitled "La
Pauvreté Ruteboeuf." But he has been even more, and even more justly, prized as having left
us no small number of historical or political poems, not a few of which are occupied with the
decay of the crusading spirit. The "Complainte d'Outremer," the "Complainte de Constantinoble,"
the "Débat du Croisé et du Décroisé" tell their own tale, and contain generous, if perhaps
not very long-sighted or practical, laments and indignation over the decadence of adventurous
piety. Others are less religious; but, on the whole, Ruteboeuf, even in his wilder days, seems
to have been (except for that dislike of the friars, in which he was not alone) a religiously
minded person, and we have a large body of poems, assigned to his later years, which are distinctly
devotional. These deal with his repentance, with his approaching death, with divers Lives of
Saints, &c. But the most noteworthy of them, as a fresh strand in the rope we are here weaving,
is the Miracle-play of Théophile. It will serve as a text or starting-point on which to take
up the subject of the drama itself, with no more about Ruteboeuf except the observation that
the varied character of his work is no doubt typical of that of at least the later trouvères
generally. They were practically men of letters, not to say journalists, of all work that was
likely to pay; and must have shifted from romance to drama, from satire to lyric, just as their
audience or their patrons might happen to demand, as their circumstances or their needs might
happen to dictate.

[Footnote 150: Ed. Jubinal, 2d ed., Paris, 1874; or ed. Kressner, Wolfenbüttel, 1885.]

[Sidenote: Drama.]

The obscure but not uninteresting subject of the links between the latest stages of classical
drama and the earliest stages of mediæval belong to the first volume of this series; indeed
by the eleventh century (or before the period, properly speaking, of this book opens) the vernacular
drama, as far as the sacred side of it is concerned, was certainly established in France, although
not in any other country. But it is not quite certain whether we actually possess anything
earlier than the twelfth century, even in French, and it is exceedingly doubtful whether what
we have in any other vernacular is older than the fourteenth. The three oldest mystery plays
wherein any modern language makes its appearance are those of The Ten Virgins,[151] mainly
in Latin, but partly in a dialect which is neither quite French nor quite Provençal; the Mystery
of Daniel, partly Latin and partly French; and the Mystery of Adam,[152] which is all French.
The two latter, when first discovered, were as usual put too early by their discoverers; but
it is certain that they are not younger than the twelfth century, while it is all but certain
that the Ten Virgins dates from the eleventh, if not even the tenth. In the thirteenth we find,
besides Ruteboeuf's Théophile, a Saint Nicolas by another very well-known trouvère, Jean Bodel
of Arras, author of many late and probably rehandled chansons, and of the famous classification
of romance which has been adopted above.

[Footnote 151: Ed. Monmerqué et Michel, Théâtre Français au Moyen Age. Paris, 1874. This also
contains Théophile, Saint Nicolas, and the plays of Adam de la Halle.]

[Footnote 152: Ed. Luzarches, Tours, 1854; ed. Palustre, Paris, 1877.]

It was probably on the well-known principle of "not letting the devil have all the best tunes"
that the Church, which had in the patristic ages so violently denounced the stage, and which
has never wholly relaxed her condemnation of its secular use, attempted at once to gratify
and sanctify the taste for dramatic performances by adopting the form, and if possible confining
it to pious uses. But there is a school of literary historians who hold that there was no direct
adoption of a form intentionally dramatic, and that the modern sacred drama--the only drama
for centuries--was simply an expansion of or excrescence from the services of the Church herself,
which in their antiphonal character, and in the alternation of monologue and chorus, were distinctly
dramatic in form. This, however, is one of those numerous questions which are only good to
be argued, and can never reach a conclusion; nor need it greatly trouble those who believe
that all literary forms are more or less natural to man, and that man's nature will therefore,
example or no example, find them out and practise them, in measure and degree according to
circumstances, sooner or later.

At any rate, if there was any hope in the mind of any ecclesiastical person at any time of
confining dramatic performances to sacred subjects, that hope was doomed to disappointment,
and in France at least to very speedy disappointment. The examples of Mystery or Miracle plays
which we have of a date older than the beginning of the fourteenth century are not numerous,
but it is quite clear that at an early time the necessity for interspersing comic interludes
was recognised; and it is needless to say to any one who has ever looked even slightly at the
subject that these interludes soon became a regular part of the performance, and exhibited
what to modern ideas seems a very indecorous disregard of the respect due to the company in
which they found themselves. The great Bible mysteries, no less and no more than the miracle
plays of the Virgin[153] and the Saints, show this characteristic throughout, and the Fool's
remark which pleased Lamb, "Hazy weather, Master Noah!" was a strictly legitimate and very
much softened descendant of the kind of pleasantries which diversify the sacred drama of the
Middle Ages in all but its very earliest examples.

[Footnote 153: Several of these miracles of the Virgin will be found in the volume by Monmerqué
and Michel referred to above: the whole collection has been printed by the Société des Anciens
Textes. The MS. is of the fourteenth century, but some of its contents may date from the thirteenth.]

It was certain, at any rate in France, that from comic interludes in sacred plays to sheer
profane comedy in ordinary life the step would not be far nor the interval of time long. The
fabliaux more particularly were farces already in the state of scenario, and some of them actually
contained dialogue. To break them up and shape them into actual plays required much less than
the innate love for drama which characterises the French people, and the keen literary sense
and craft which characterised the French trouvères of the thirteenth century.

[Sidenote: Adam de la Halle.]

The honour of producing the first examples known to us is assigned to Adam de la Halle, a trouvère
of Arras, who must have been a pretty exact contemporary of Ruteboeuf, and who besides some
lyrical work has left us two plays, Li Jus de la Feuillie and Robin et Marion.[154] The latter,
as its title almost sufficiently indicates, is a dramatised pastourelle; the former is less
easy to classify, but it stands in something like the same relation to the personal poems,
of which, as has just been mentioned in the case of Ruteboeuf himself, the trouvères were so
fond. For it introduces himself, his wife (at least she is referred to), his father, and divers
of his Arras friends. And though rough in construction, it is by no means a very far-off ancestor
of the comedy of manners in its most developed form.

[Footnote 154: Besides the issue above noted these have been separately edited by A. Rambeau.
Marburg, 1886.]

[Sidenote: Robin et Marion.]

It may be more interesting to give some account here of these two productions, the parents
of so numerous and famous a family, than to dwell on the early miracle plays, which reached
their fullest development in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, and then for the most
part died away. The play (Jeu is the general term, and the exact, though now in French obsolete,
equivalent of the English word) of Robin et Marion combines the general theme of the earlier
lyric pastourelle, as explained above, with the more general pastoral theme of the love of
shepherd and shepherdess. The scene opens on Marion singing to the burden "Robins m'a demandée,
si m'ara." To her the Knight, who inquires the meaning of her song, whereupon she avows her
love for Robin. Nevertheless he woos her, in a fashion rather clumsy than cavalier, but receives
no encouragement. Robin comes up after the Knight's departure. He is, to use Steerforth's words
in David Copperfield, "rather a chuckle-headed fellow for the girl," but is apparently welcome.
They eat rustic fare together and then dance; but more company is desired, and Robin goes to
fetch it. He tells the friends he asks that some one has been courting Marion, and they prudently
resolve to bring, one his great pitchfork and another his good blackthorn. Meanwhile the Knight
returns, and though Marion replies to his accost--

    "Pour Dieu, sire, alez vo chemin,
    Si ferès moult grant courtoisie,"

he renews his suit, but is again rejected. Returning in a bad temper he meets Robin and cuffs
him soundly, a correction which Robin does not take in the heroic manner. Marion runs to rescue
him, and the Knight threatens to carry her off--which Robin, even though his friends have come
up, is too cowardly to prevent. She, however, is constant and escapes; the piece finishing
by a long and rather tedious festival of the clowns. Its drawbacks are obvious, and are those
natural to an experiment which has no patterns before it; but the figure of Marion is exceedingly
graceful and pleasing, and the whole has promise. It is essentially a comic opera; but that
a trouvère of the thirteenth century should by himself, so far as we can see, have founded
comic opera is not a small thing.

[Sidenote: The Jeu de la Feuillie.]

The Jus de la Feuillie ("the booths"), otherwise Li Jus Adam, or Adam's play, is more ambitious
and more complicated, but also more chaotic. It is, as has been said, an early sketch of a
comedy of manners; but upon this is grafted in the most curious way a fairy interlude, or rather
after-piece. Adam himself opens the piece and informs his friends with much coolness that he
has tried married life, but intends to go back to "clergy" and then set out for Paris, leaving
his father to take care of his wife. He even replies to the neighbours' remonstrances by enlarging
in the most glowing terms on the passion he has felt for his wife and on her beauty, adding,
with a crude brutality which has hardly a ghost of atoning fun in it, that this is all over--

    "Car mes fains en est apaiés."

His father then appears, and Adam shows himself not more dutiful as a son than he is grateful
as a husband. But old Henri de la Halle, an easy-going father, has not much reproach for him.
The piece, however, has hardly begun before it goes off into a medley of unconnected scenes,
though each has a sort of fabliau interest of its own. A doctor is consulted by his clients;
a monk demands alms and offerings in the name of Monseigneur Saint Acaire, promising miracles;
a madman succeeds him; and in the midst enters the Mainie Hellequin, "troop of Hellequin" (a
sort of Oberon or fairy king), with Morgue la fée among them. The fairies end with a song,
and the miscellaneous conversation of the men of Arras resumes and continues for some time,
reaching, in fact, no formal termination.

[Sidenote: Comparison of them.]

In this odd piece, which, except the description of Marie the deserted wife, has little poetical
merit, we see drama of the particular kind in a much ruder and vaguer condition than in the
parallel instance of Robin et Marion. There the very form of the pastourelle was in a manner
dramatic--it wanted little adjustment to be quite so; and though the coda of the rustic merry-making
is rather artless, it is conceivably admissible. Here we are not far out of Chaos as far as
dramatic arrangement goes. Adam's announced desertion of his wife and intended journey to Paris
lead to nothing: the episodes or scenes of the doctor and the monk are connected with nothing;
the fool or madman and his father are equally independent; and the "meyney of Hellequin" simply
play within the play, not without rhyme, but certainly with very little reason. Nevertheless
the piece is almost more interesting than the comparatively regular farces (into which rather
later the fabliaux necessarily developed themselves) and than the miracle plays (which were
in the same way dramatic versions of the Lives of the Saints), precisely because of this irregular
and pillar-to-post character. We see that the author is trying a new kind, that he is endeavouring
to create for himself. He is not copying anything in form; he is borrowing very little from
any one in material. He has endeavoured to represent, and has not entirely failed in representing,
the comings and goings, the ways and says, of his townsmen at fair and market. The curiously
desultory character of this early drama--the character hit off most happily in modern times
by Wallenstein's Lager--naturally appears here in an exaggerated form. But the root of the
matter--the construction of drama, not on the model of Terence or of anybody, but on the model
of life--is here.

It will be for my successor to show the wide extension of this dramatic form in the succeeding
period. Here it takes rank rather as having the interest of origins, and as helping to fill
out the picture of the marvellously various ability of Frenchmen of letters in the thirteenth
century, than for the positive bulk or importance of its constituents. And it is important
to repeat that it connects itself in the general literary survey both with fabliau and with
allegory. The personifying taste, which bred or was bred from allegory, is very close akin
to the dramatic taste, and the fabliau, as has been said more than once, is a farce in the
making, and sometimes far advanced towards being completely made.

[Sidenote: Early French prose.]

All the matter hitherto discussed in this chapter, as well as all that of previous chapters
as far as French is concerned, with the probable if not certain exception of the Arthurian
romances, has been in verse. Indeed--still with this exception, and with the further and more
certain exceptions of a few laws, a few sermons, &c.--there was no French prose, or none that
has come down to us, until the thirteenth century. The Romance tongues, as contradistinguished
from Anglo-Saxon and Icelandic, were slow to develop vernacular prose; the reason, perhaps,
being that Latin, of one kind or another, was still so familiar to all persons of any education
that, for purposes of instruction and use, vernacular prose was not required, while verse was
more agreeable to the vulgar.

[Sidenote: Laws and sermons.]

Yet it was inevitable that prose should, sooner or later, make its appearance; and it was equally
inevitable that spoken prose sermons should be of the utmost antiquity. Indeed such sermons
form, by reasonable inference, the subject of the very earliest reference[155] to that practically
lost lingua romana rustica which formed the bridge between Latin and the Romance tongues. But
they do not seem to have been written down, and were no doubt extempore addresses rather than
regular discourses. Law appears to have had the start of divinity in the way of providing formal
written prose; and the law-fever of the Northmen, which had already shaped, or was soon to
shape, the "Gray-goose" code of their northernmost home in Iceland, expressed itself early
in Normandy and England--hardly less early in the famous Lettres du Sépulcre or Assises de
Jérusalem, the code of the Crusading kingdom, which was drawn up almost immediately after its
establishment, and which exists, though not in the very oldest form. Much uncertainty prevails
on the question when the first sermons in French vernacular were formally composed, and by
whom. It has been maintained, and denied, that the French sermons of St Bernard which exist
are original, in which case the practice must have come in pretty early in the twelfth century.
There is, at any rate, no doubt that Maurice de Sully, who was Archbishop of Paris for more
than thirty years, from 1160 onwards, composed sermons in French; or at least that sermons
of his, which may have been written in Latin, were translated into French. For this whole point
of early prose, especially on theological subjects, is complicated by the uncertainty whether
the French forms are original or not. There is no doubt that the feeling expressed by Ascham
in England nearly four centuries later, that it would have been for himself much easier and
pleasanter to write in Latin, must at the earlier date have prevailed far more extensively.

[Footnote 155: The often-quoted statement that in 659 Mummolinus or Momolenus was made Bishop
of Noyon because of his double skill in "Teutonic" and "Roman" (not "Latin") speech.]

[Sidenote: Villehardouin.]

Still prose made its way: it must have received an immense accession of vogue if the prose
Arthurian romances really date from the end of the twelfth century; and by the beginning of
the thirteenth it found a fresh channel in which to flow, the channel of historical narrative.
The earliest French chronicles of the ordinary compiling kind date from this time; and (which
is of infinitely greater importance) it is from this time (cir. 1210) that the first great
French prose book, from the literary point, appears--that is to say, the Conquête de Constantinoble,[156]
or history of the Fourth Crusade, by Geoffroy de Villehardouin, Marshal of Champagne and Romanie,
who was born about 1160 in the first-named province, and died at Messinople in Greece about 1213.

[Footnote 156: Ed. Natalis de Wailly. Paris, 1872.]

This deservedly famous and thoroughly delightful book, which has more than one contemporary
or slightly younger parallel, though none of these approaches it in literary interest, presents
the most striking resemblance to a chanson de geste--in conduct, arrangement (the paragraphs
representing laisses), and phraseology. But it is not, as some other early prose is, merely
verse without rhyme, and with broken rhythm; and it is impossible to read it without astonished
admiration at the excellence of the medium which the writer, apparently by instinct, has attained.
The list of the crusaders; their embassy to "li dux de Venise qui ot à nom Henris Dandolo et
etait mult sages et mult prouz"; their bargain, in which the business-like Venetian, after
stipulating for 85,000 marks of transport-money, agrees to add fifty armed galleys without
hire, for the love of God and on the terms of half-conquests; the death of the Count of Champagne
(much wept by Geoffroy his marshal); and the substitution after difficulties of Boniface, Marquis
of Montserrat;--these things form the prologue. When the army is actually got together the
transport-money is unfortunately lacking, and the Venetians, still with the main chance steadily
before them, propose that the crusaders shall recover for them, from the King of Hungary, Zara,
"Jadres en Esclavonie, qui est une des plus forz citez du monde." Then we are told how Dandolo
and his host take the cross; how Alexius Comnenus, the younger son of Isaac, arrives and begs
aid; how the fleet set out ("Ha! Dex, tant bon destrier i ot mis!"); how Zara is besieged and
taken; of the pact made with Alexius to divert the host to Constantinople; of the voyage thither
after the Pope's absolution for the slightly piratical and not in the least crusading prise
de Jadres has been obtained; of the dissensions and desertions at Corfu, and the arrival at
the "Bras St Georges," the Sea of Marmora. This is what may be called the second part.

The third part opens with debates at San Stefano as to the conduct of the attack. The emperor
sends soft words to "la meillor gens qui soent sanz corone" (this is the description of the
chiefs), but they reject them, arrange themselves in seven battles, storm the port, take the
castle of Galata, and then assault the city itself. The fighting having gone wholly against
him, the emperor retires by the open side of the city, and the Latins triumph. Some show is
made of resuming, or rather beginning, a real crusade; but the young Emperor Alexius, to whom
his blind father Isaac has handed over the throne, bids them stay, and they do so. Soon dissensions
arise, war breaks out, a conspiracy is formed against Isaac and his son by Mourzufle, "et Murchufles
chauça les houses vermoilles," quickly putting the former owners of the scarlet boots to death.
A second siege and capture of the city follows, and Baldwin of Flanders is crowned emperor,
while Boniface marries the widow of Isaac, and receives the kingdom of Salonica.

It has seemed worth while to give this abstract of the book up to a certain point (there is
a good deal more of confused fighting in "Romanie" before, at the death of Boniface, Villehardouin
gives up the pen to Henri of Valenciennes), because even such a bare argument may show the
masterly fashion in which this first of modern vernacular historians of the great literary
line handles his subject. The parts are planned with judgment and adjusted with skill; the
length allotted to each incident is just enough; the speeches, though not omitted, are not
inserted at the tyrannous length in which later mediæval and even Renaissance historians indulged
from corrupt following of the ancients. But no abstract could show--though the few scraps of
actual phrase purposely inserted may convey glimpses of it--the vigour and picturesqueness
of the recital. That Villehardouin was an eyewitness explains a little, but very little: we
have, unfortunately, libraries full of eyewitness-histories which are duller than any ditch-water.
Nor, though he is by no means shy of mentioning his own performances, does he communicate to
the story that slightly egotistic interest of gossip and personal detail of which his next
great successor is perhaps the first example. It is because, while writing a rather rugged
but completely genuine and unmetrical though rhythmical prose, Villehardouin has the poet's
eye and grasp that he sees, and therefore makes us see, the events that he relates. These events
do not form exactly the most creditable chapter of modern history; for they simply come to
this, that an army assembling for a crusade against the infidel, allows itself to be bribed
or wheedled into two successive attacks on two Christian princes who have given it not the
slightest provocation, never attacks the infidel at all, and ends by a filibustering seizure
of already Christian territory. Nor does Villehardouin make any elaborate disguise of this;
but he tells the tale with such a gust, such a furia, that we are really as much interested
in the success of this private piracy as if it had been the true crusade of Godfrey of Bouillon
himself.

[Sidenote: William of Tyre.]

[Sidenote: Joinville.]

The earlier and more legitimate crusades did not lack fitting chroniclers in the same style,
though none of them had the genius of Villehardouin. The Roman d'Eracles (as the early vernacular
version[157] of the Latin chronicle of William of Tyre used to be called, for no better reason
than that the first line runs, "Les anciennes histoires dient qu'Eracles [Heraclius] qui fu
mout bons crestiens gouverna l'empire de Rome") is a chronicle the earlier part of which is
assigned to a certain Bernard, treasurer of the Abbey of Corbie. It is a very extensive relation,
carrying the history of Latin Palestine from Peter the Hermit's pilgrimage to about the year
1190, composed probably within ten or fifteen years after this later date, and written, though
not with Villehardouin's epic spirit, in a very agreeable and readable fashion. Not much later,
vernacular chronicles of profane history in France became common, and the celebrated Grandes
Chroniques of St Denis began to be composed in French. But the only production of this thirteenth
century which has taken rank in general literary knowledge with the work of the Marshal of
Champagne is that[158] of Jean de Joinville, also a Champenois and Seneschal of the province,
who was born about ten years after Villehardouin's death, and who died, after a life prolonged
to not many short of a hundred years, in 1319. Joinville's historical work seems to have been
the occupation of his old age; but its subject, the Life and Crusading misfortunes of Saint
Louis, belongs to the experiences of his youth and early middle life. Besides the Histoire
de Saint Louis, we have from him a long Credo or profession of religious faith.

[Footnote 157: Ed. Paulin Paris. Paris, 1879.]

[Footnote 158: Ed. Natalis de Wailly. Paris, 1874.]

There is no reason at all to question the sincerity of this faith. But Joinville was a shrewd
and practical man, and when the kings of France and Navarre pressed him to take the cross a
second time, he answered that their majesties' servants had during his first absence done him
and his people so much harm that he thought he had better not go away again. Indeed it would
be displeasing to God, "qui mit son corps pour son peuple sauver," if he, Joinville, abandoned
his people. And he reports only in the briefest abstract the luckless "voie de Tunes," or expedition
to Tunis. But of the earlier and not much less unlucky Damietta crusade, in which he took part,
as well as of his hero's life till all but the last, he has written very fully, and in a fashion
which is very interesting, though unluckily we have no manuscript representing the original
text, or even near to it in point of time. The book, which has been thought to have been written
in pieces at long intervals, has nothing of the antique vigour of Villehardouin. Joinville
is something of a gossip, and though he evidently writes with a definite literary purpose,
is not master of very great argumentative powers. But for this same reason he abounds in anecdote,
and in the personal detail which, though it may easily be overdone, is undoubtedly now and
then precious for the purpose of enabling us to conjure up the things and men of old time more
fully and correctly. And there is a Pepysian garrulity as well as a Pepysian shrewdness about
Joinville; so that, on the whole, he fills the position of ancestor in the second group of
historians, the group of lively raconteurs, as well as Villehardouin leads that of inspired
describers. For an instance of the third kind, the philosophical historian, France, if not
Europe, had to wait two centuries, when such a one came in Comines.

It is almost unnecessary to say that when the secret of producing prose and its advantages
over verse for certain purposes had been discovered, it was freely employed for all such purposes,
scientific as science was understood, devotional, instructive, business (the Livre des Mestiers,
or book of the guilds of Paris, is of the thirteenth century), and miscellaneous. But few of
these things concern literature proper. It is otherwise with the application of prose to fiction.

[Sidenote: Fiction.]

This, as we have seen, had probably taken place in the case of the Arthurian romances as early
as the middle of our period, and throughout the thirteenth century prose romances of length
were not unknown, though it was later that all the three classes--Carlovingian, Arthurian,
and Antique--were thrown indiscriminately into prose, and lengthened even beyond the huge length
of their later representatives in verse. But for this reason or that, romance in prose was
with rare exceptions unfavourable to the production of the best literature. It encouraged the
prolixity which was the great curse of the Middle Ages, and the deficient sense of form and
scanty presence of models prevented the observance of anything like a proper scheme.

[Sidenote: Aucassin et Nicolette.]

But among the numerous origins of this wonderful time the origin of the short prose tale, in
which France was to hold almost if not quite the highest rank among European countries, was
also included. It would not seem that the kind was as yet very frequently attempted--the fact
that the verse fabliau was still in the very height of its flourishing-time, made this unlikely;
nor was it till that flourishing-time was over that farces on the one hand, and prose tales
on the other, succeeded as fruit the fabliau-flower. But it is from the thirteenth century
that (with some others) we have Aucassin et Nicolette.[159] If it was for a short time rather
too much of a fashion to praise (it cannot be over-praised) this exquisite story, no wise man
will allow himself to be disgusted any more than he will allow himself to be attracted by fashion.
This work of "the old caitiff," as the author calls himself with a rather Hibernian coaxingness,
is what has been called a cantefable--that is to say, it is not only obviously written, like
verse romances and fabliaux, for recitation, but it consists partly of prose, partly of verse,
the music for the latter being also given. Mr Swinburne, Mr Pater, and, most of all, Mr Lang,
have made it unnecessary to tell in any detailed form the story how Aucassin, the son of Count
Garin of Beaucaire, fell in love with Nicolette, a Saracen captive, who has been bought by
the Viscount of the place and brought up as his daughter; how Nicolette was shut up in a tower
to keep her from Aucassin; how Count Bongars of Valence assailed Beaucaire and was captured
by Aucassin on the faith of a promise from his father that Nicolette shall be restored to him;
how the Count broke his word, and Aucassin, setting his prisoner free, was put in prison himself;
how Nicolette escaped, and by her device Aucassin also; how the lovers were united; and how,
after a comic interlude in the country of "Torelore," which could be spared by all but folk-lorists,
the damsel is discovered to be daughter of the King of Carthage, and all ends in bowers of bliss.

[Footnote 159: Frequently edited: not least satisfactorily in the Nouvelles Françaises du XIIIme.
Siècle, referred to above. In 1887 two English translations, by Mr Lang and Mr Bourdillon,
the latter with the text and much apparatus, appeared: and Mr Bourdillon has recently edited
a facsimile of the unique MS. (Oxford, 1896).]

But even the enthusiasm and the art of three of the best writers of English and lovers of literature
in this half-century have not exhausted the wonderful charm of this little piece. The famous
description of Nicolette, as she escapes from her prison and walks through the daisies that
look black against her white feet, is certainly the most beautiful thing of the kind in mediæval
prose-work, and the equal of anything of the kind anywhere. And for original audacity few things
surpass Aucassin's equally famous inquiry, "En Paradis qu'ai-je à faire?" with the words with
which he follows it up to the Viscount. But these show passages only concentrate the charm
which is spread all over the novelette, at least until its real conclusion, the union and escape
of the lovers. Here, as in the earlier part of the Rose--to which it is closely akin--is the
full dreamy beauty, a little faint, a little shadowy, but all the more attractive, of mediæval
art; and here it has managed to convey itself in prose no less happily and with more concentrated
happiness than there in verse.

[Sidenote: Resemblances.]

These may seem at first to be no sufficient reason for treating together two such literatures
as those named in the title of this chapter. But the connection, both of likeness and unlikeness,
between them is too tempting to the student of comparative literature, and too useful in such
a comparative survey of literature as that which we are here undertaking, to be mistaken or
refused. Both attaining, thanks to very different causes, an extraordinarily early maturity,
completely worked themselves out in an extraordinarily short time. Neither had, so far as we
know, the least assistance from antecedent vernacular models. Each achieved an extraordinary
perfection and intensity, Icelandic in spirit, Provençal in form.

[Sidenote: Contrasts.]

And their differences are no less fascinating, since they start from this very diversity of
similar perfection. Icelandic, after a brief period of copying French and other languages,
practically died out as a language producing literature; and, perhaps for that very reason,
maintained itself in all the more continuity as a spoken language. Even its daughter--or at
least successor--Norse tongues produced nothing worthy to take up the tradition of the Sagas
and the Poems. It influenced (till the late and purely literary revival of it biassed to some
extent the beginnings of the later Romantic revival in Western Europe, a hundred and fifty
years ago) nothing and nobody. It was as isolated as its own island. To Provençal, on the other
hand, though its own actual producing-time was about as brief, belongs the schooling, to no
small extent, of the whole literature of Europe. Directly, it taught the trouvères of Northern
France and the poets of Spain and Italy prosody, and a certain amount of poetical style and
tone; indirectly, or directly through France, it influenced England and Germany. It started,
indeed, none of the greater poetical kinds except lyric, and lyric is the true grass of Parnassus--it
springs up naturally everywhere; but it started the form of all, or at least was the first
to adapt from Latin a prosody suitable to all.

The most obvious, though not the least interesting, points of likeness in unlikeness have been
left to the last. The contrasts between the hawthorn and nightingale of Provence, her "winds
heavy with the rose," and the grey firths, the ice- and foam-fretted skerries of Iceland; between
the remains of Roman luxury pushed to more than Roman effeminacy in the one, and the rough
Germanic virtue exasperated to sheer ferocity in the other,--are almost too glaring for anything
but a schoolboy's or a rhetorician's essay. Yet they are reproduced with an incredible--a "copy-book"--fidelity
in the literatures. The insistence of experts and enthusiasts on the law-abiding character
of the sagas has naturally met with some surprise from readers of these endless private wars,
and burnings, and "heath-slayings," these feuds where blood flows like water, to be compensated
by fines as regular as a water-rate, these methodical assassinations, in which it is not in
the least discreditable to heroes to mob heroes as brave as themselves to death by numbers,
in which nobody dreams of measuring swords, or avoiding vantage of any kind. Yet the enthusiastic
experts are not wrong. Whatever outrages the Icelander may commit, he always has the law--an
eccentric, unmodern, conventional law, but a real and recognised one--before his eyes, and
respects it in principle, however much he may sometimes violate it in practice. To the Provençal,
on the other hand, law, as such, is a nuisance. He will violate it, so to speak, on principle--less
because the particular violation has a particular temptation for him than because the thing
is forbidden. The Icelander may covet and take another man's wife, but it is to make her his
own. The Provençal will hardly fall, and will never stay, in love with any one who is not another's.
In savagery there is not so very much to choose: it requires a calculus, not of morals but
of manners, to distinguish accurately between carving the blood-eagle on your enemy and serving
up your rival's heart as a dish to his mistress. In passion also there may be less difference
than the extreme advocates of both sides would maintain. But in all things external the contrast,
the hackneyed contrast, of South and North never could have been exhibited with a more artistic
completeness, never has been exhibited with a completeness so artistic. And these two contrasting
parts were played at the very same time at the two ends of Europe. In the very same years when
the domestic histories and tragedies (there were few comedies) of Iceland were being spun into
the five great sagas and the fifty smaller ones, the fainter, the more formal, but the not
less peculiar music of the gracious long-drawn Provençal love-song was sounding under the vines
and olives of Languedoc. The very Icelanders who sailed to Constantinople in the intervals
of making the subjects of these sagas, and sometimes of composing them, must not seldom have
passed or landed on the coasts where cansos and tensos, lai and sirvente, were being woven,
and have listened to them as the Ulyssean mariners listened to the songs of the sirens.

[Sidenote: Icelandic literature of this time mainly prose.]

It is not, of course, true that Provençal only sings of love and Icelandic only of war. There
is a fair amount of love in the Northern literature and a fair amount of fighting in the Southern.
And it is not true that Icelandic literature is wholly prose, Provençal wholly poetry. But
it is true that Provençal prose plays an extremely small part in Provençal literature, and
that Icelandic poetry plays, in larger minority, yet still a minor part in Icelandic. It so
happens, too, that in this volume we are almost wholly concerned with Icelandic prose, and
that we shall not find it necessary to say much, if anything, about Provençal that is not in
verse. It is distinctly curious how much later, coeteris paribus, the Romance tongues are than
the Teutonic in attaining facilities of prose expression. But there is no reason for believing
that even the Teutonic tongues falsified the general law that poetry comes before prose. And
certainly this was the case with Icelandic--so much so that, uncertain as are the actual dates,
it seems better to relinquish the Iceland of poetry to the first volume of this series, where
it can be handled in connection with that Anglo-Saxon verse which it so much resembles. The
more characteristic Eddaic poems--that is to say, the most characteristic parts of Icelandic
poetry--must date from Heathen times, or from the first conflicts of Christianity with Heathenism
in Iceland; and this leaves them far behind us.[160] On the other hand, the work which we have
in Provençal before the extreme end of the eleventh century is not finished literature. It
has linguistic interest, the interest of origins, but no more.

[Footnote 160: Iceland began to be Christian in 1000.]

[Sidenote: Difficulties with it.]

Although there is practically as little doubt about the antiquity of Icelandic literature[161]
as about its interest, there is unusual room for guesswork as to the exact dates of the documents
which compose it. Writing seems to have been introduced into Iceland late; and it is not the
opinion of scholars who combine learning with patriotism that many, if any, of the actual MSS.
date further back than the thirteenth century; while the actual composition of the oldest that
we have is not put earlier than the twelfth, and rather its later than its earlier part. Moreover,
though Icelanders were during this period, and indeed from the very first settlement of the
island, constantly in foreign countries and at foreign courts--though as Vikings or Varangians,
as merchants or merely travelling adventurers, they were to be found all over Europe, from
Dublin to Constantinople--yet, on the other hand, few or no foreigners visited Iceland, and
it figures hardly at all in the literary and historical records of the Continent or even of
the British Isles, with which it naturally had most correspondence. We are therefore almost
entirely devoid of those side-lights which are so invaluable in general literary history, while
yet again we have no borrowings from Icelandic literature by any other to tell us the date
of the borrowed matter. At the end of our present time, and still more a little later, Charlemagne
and Arthur and the romances of antiquity make their appearance in Icelandic; but nothing Icelandic
makes its appearance elsewhere. For it is not to be supposed for one moment that the Nibelungenlied,
for instance, is the work of men who wrote with the Volsunga-Saga or the Gudrun lays before
them, any more than the Grettis Saga is made up out of Beowulf. These things are mere examples
of the successive refashionings of traditions and stories common to the race in different centuries,
manners, and tongues. Except as to the bare fact of community of origin they help us little
or not at all.

[Footnote 161: It is almost superfluous to insert, but would be disagreeable to omit, a reference
to the Sturlunga Saga (2 vols., Oxford, 1879) and the Corpus Poeticum Boreale (2 vols., Oxford,
1883) of the late Dr Vigfusson and Professor York Powell. The first contains an invaluable
sketch, or rather history, of Icelandic literature: the second (though one may think its arrangement
a little arbitrary) is a book of unique value and interest. Had these two been followed up
according to Dr Vigfusson's plan, practically the whole of Icelandic literature that has real
interest would have been accessible once for all. As it is, one is divided between satisfaction
that England should have done such a service to one of the great mediæval literatures, and
regret that she has not done as much for others.]

[Sidenote: The Saga.]

The reasons why Icelandic literature, in its most peculiar and interesting form of the saga,
did not penetrate abroad are clear enough; and the remoteness and want of school-education
in the island itself are by no means the most powerful of them. The very thing which is most
characteristic of them, and which in these later times constitutes their greatest charm, must
have been against them in their own time. For the stories which ran like an epidemic through
Europe in the years immediately before and immediately after 1200, though they might be in
some cases concerned directly with national heroes, appealed without exception to international
and generally human interests. The slightest education, or the slightest hearing of persons
educated, sufficed to teach every one that Alexander and Cæsar were great conquerors, that
the Story of Troy (the exact truth of which was never doubted) had been famous for hundreds
and almost thousands of years. Charlemagne had had directly to do with the greater part of
Europe in peace or war, and the struggle with the Saracens was of old and universal interest,
freshened by the Crusades. The Arthurian story received from fiction, if not from history,
an almost equally wide bearing; and was, besides, knitted to religion--the one universal interest
of the time--by its connection with the Graal. All Europe, yet again, had joined in the Crusades,
and the stories brought by the crusaders directly or indirectly from the East were in the same
way common property.

[Sidenote: Its insularity of manner.]

But saga-literature had nothing of this appeal. It was as indifferently and almost superciliously
insular as the English country-house novel itself, and may have produced in some of the very
few foreigners who can ever have known it originally, something of the same feelings of wrath
which we have seen excited by the English country-house novel in our own day. The heroes were
not, according to the general ideas of mediæval Europe, either great chiefs or accomplished
knights; the heroines were the very reverse of those damsels "with mild mood" (as the catch-word
in the English romances has it) whom the general Middle Age liked or thought it liked. An intricate,
intensely local, and (away from the locality) not seldom shocking system of law and public
morality pervaded the whole. The supernatural element, though in itself it might have been
an attraction, was of a cast quite different from the superstitions of the South, or even of
the Centre; and the Christian element, which was to the Middle Ages the very air they breathed,
was either absent altogether or present in an artificial, uneasy, and scanty fashion.

[Sidenote: Of scenery and character.]

Yet all these things were of less importance than another, which is, after all, the great differentia,
the abiding quality, of the sagas. In the literature of the rest of Europe, and especially
in the central and everywhere radiating literature of France, there were sometimes local and
almost parochial touches--sometimes unimportant heroes, not seldom savage heroines, frequently
quaint bits of exotic supernaturalism. But all this was subdued to a kind of common literary
handling, a "dis-realising" process which made them universally acceptable. The personal element,
too, was conspicuously absent--the generic character is always uppermost. Charlemagne was a
real person, and not a few of the incidents with which he was connected in the chansons were
real events; but he and they have become mere stuff of romance as we see them in these poems.
Whether Arthur was a real person or not, the same to an even greater extent is true of him.
The kings and their knights appealed to Englishmen, Frenchmen, Germans, Italians alike, because
they were not obtrusively English, German, Italian, or French. But the sagas are from the first
and to the (at least genuine) last nothing if not national, domestic, and personal. The grim
country of ice and fire, of jökul and skerry, the massive timber homesteads, the horse-fights
and the Viking voyages, the spinning-wheel and the salting-tub, are with us everywhere; and
yet there is an almost startling individuality, for all the sameness of massacre and chicanery,
of wedding and divorce, which characterises the circumstances. Gunnar is not distinguished
from Grettir merely by their adventures; there is no need of labels on the lovers of Gudrun;
Steingerd in Kormak's Saga and Hallgerd in Njal's, are each something much more than types
of the woman with bad blood and the woman with blood that is only light and hot. And to the
unsophisticated reader and hearer, as many examples might be adduced to show, this personality,
the highest excellence of literature to the sophisticated scholar, is rather a hindrance than
a help. He has not proved the ways and the persons; and he likes what he has proved.

To us, on the contrary, the characteristics of saga-work, at which a glance has been made in
the foregoing paragraphs, form its principal charm, a charm reinforced by the fact of its extraordinary
difference from almost all other literature except (in some points) that of the Homeric poems.
Although there is a good deal of common form in the sagas, though outlawry and divorce, the
quibbles of the Thing and the violence of ambush or holmgang, recur to and beyond the utmost
limits of permitted repetition, the unfamiliarity of the setting atones for its monotony, and
the individuality of the personages themselves very generally prevents that monotony from being
even felt. The stories are never tame; and, what is more remarkable, they seldom or never have
the mere extravagance which in mediæval, at least as often as in other, writing, plays Scylla
to the Charybdis of tameness. Moreover, they have, as no other division of mediæval romance
has in anything like the same measure, the advantage of the presence of interesting characters
of both sexes. Only the Arthurian story can approach them here, and that leaves still an element
of gracious shadowiness about the heroines, if not the heroes. The Icelandic heroine has nothing
shadowy about her. Her weakest point is the want of delicacy--not in a finicking sense by any
means--which a rough promiscuous life to begin with, and the extreme facility and frequency
of divorce on the other, necessarily brought about. But she is always, as the French have it,
a "person"--when she is good, a person altogether of the best; even when she is bad, a person
seldom other than striking and often charming.

[Sidenote: Fact and fiction in the sagas.]

There is, of course, Icelandic literature in prose outside of the sagas--the great law code
(Gragas or Greygoose), religious books in the usual plenty, scientific books of a kind, and
others. But the saga, the story, was so emphatically the natural mould into which Icelandic
literary impulse threw itself, that it is even more difficult here than elsewhere at the time
to separate story and history, fiction and fact. Indeed the stricter critics would, I believe,
maintain that every saga which deserves the name is actually founded on fact: the Laxdæla no
less than the Heimskringla,[162] the story of Kormak no less than that of Jarl Rognwald. A
merely and wholly invented story (they hold, and perhaps rightly) would have been repugnant
to that extraordinarily business-like spirit which has left us, by the side of the earlier
songs and later sagas, containing not a little of the most poetical matter of the whole world,
the Landnama Bok of Ari Frodi, a Domesday-book turned into literature, which is indeed older
than our time, but which forms a sort of commentary and companion to the whole of the sagas
by anticipation or otherwise.

[Footnote 162: Dr Vigfusson is exceedingly severe on the Heimskringla, which he will have to
be only a late, weak, and rationalised compilation from originals like the oddly termed "Great
O.T. Saga." But it is hard for a man to think hardly of the book in which, though only a translation,
he first read how Queen Sigrid the Haughty got rid of her troublesome lovers by the effectual
process of burning them en masse in a barn, and how King Olaf died the greatest sea-death--greater
even than Grenville's--of any defeated hero, in history or literature.]

[Sidenote: Classes and authorship of them.]

Difficult as it may be to draw the line between intended history, which was always strongly
"romanced" in form, if not intentionally in fact, and that very peculiar product of Icelandic
genius the saga proper, in which the original domestic record has been, so to speak, "super-romanced"
into a work of art, it is still possible to see it, if not to draw it, between the Heimskringla,
the story of the Kings of Norway (made English after some earlier versions by Messrs Magnusson
and Morris, and abstracted, as genius can abstract, by Carlyle), the Orkneyinga and Færeyinga
Sagas (the tales of these outlying islands before the former came under Norwegian rule), the
curious conglomerate known as the Sturlunga Saga on the one hand, and the greater and lesser
sagas proper on the other. The former are set down to the two great writers Snorri and Sturla,
the one the chief literary light of Iceland in the first half of the thirteenth century, the
other the chief light in the second, both of the same family, and with Ari Frodi the three
greatest of the certainly known men of letters of the island. Conjecture has naturally run
riot as to the part which either Snorri or Sturla may have taken in the sagas not directly
attributed to either, but most probably dating from their time, as well as with the personalities
of the unknown or little known poets and prosemen who shaped the older stories at about the
same period. But to the historian who takes delight in literature, and does not care very much
who made it provided it is made well, what has been called "the singular silence" as to authorship
which runs through the whole of the early Icelandic literature is rather a blessing than otherwise.
It frees him from those biographical inquiries which always run the risk of drawing nigh to
gossip, and it enables him to concentrate attention on the literature itself.

This literature is undoubtedly best exemplified, as we should expect, in the wholly anonymous
and only indirectly historical sagas of the second division, though it is fair to say that
there is nothing here much finer than such things as the famous last fight of King Olaf in
the Heimskringla, or as many other incidents and episodes in the history-books. Only the hands
of the writers were freer in the others: and complete freedom--at least from all but the laws
of art--is never a more "nobil thing" than it is to the literary artist.

[Sidenote: The five greater sagas.]

There seems no reason to quarrel with the classification which divides the sagas proper into
two classes, greater and lesser, and assigns position in the first to five only--the Saga of
Burnt Njal, that of the dwellers in Laxdale, the Eyrbyggja, Egil's Saga, and the Saga of Grettir
the Strong. It is very unlucky that the reception extended by the English public to the publications
of Mr Vigfusson and Professor York Powell, mentioned in a note above, did not encourage the
editors to proceed to an edition at least of these five sagas together, which might, according
to estimate, have been done in three volumes, two more containing all the small ones. Meanwhile
Njala--the great sagas are all known by familiar diminutives of this kind--is accessible in
English in the late Sir G.W. Dasent's well-known translation;[163] the Eyrbyggja and Egla in
abstracts by Sir Walter Scott[164] and Mr Gosse;[165] Laxdæla has been treated as it deserves
in the longest and nearly the finest section of Mr Morris's Earthly Paradise;[166] and the
same writer with Dr Magnusson has given a literal translation of Grettla.[167]

[Footnote 163: The Story of Burnt Njal. Edinburgh, 1861.]

[Footnote 164: Included in the Bohn edition of Mallet's Northern Antiquities.]

[Footnote 165: Cornhill Magazine, July 1879.]

[Footnote 166: "The Lovers of Gudrun;" November, part iii. p. 337, original edition. London, 1870.]

[Footnote 167: London, 1869.]

The lesser sagas of the same group are some thirty in number, the best known or the most accessible
being those of Gunnlaug Serpent's-Tongue, often printed in the original,[168] very short, very
characteristic, and translated by the same hands as Grettla;[169] Viga Glum, translated by
Sir Edmund Head;[170] Gisli the Outlaw (Dasent);[171] Howard or Havard the Halt, The Banded
Men, and Hen Thorir (Morris and Magnusson)[172]; Kormak, said to be the oldest, and certainly
one of the most interesting.[173]

[Footnote 168: Gunnlaug's Saga Ormstungu. Ed. Mogk. Halle, 1886.]

[Footnote 169: In Three Northern Love-Stories. London, 1875.]

[Footnote 170: London, 1866.]

[Footnote 171: Edinburgh, 1866.]

[Footnote 172: In one volume. London, 1891.]

[Footnote 173: Not translated, and said to require re-editing in the original, but very fully
abstracted in Northern Antiquities, as above, pp. 321-339. The verse is in the Corpus Poeticum
Boreale.]

So much of the interest of a saga depends on small points constantly varied and renewed, that
only pretty full abstracts of the contents of one can give much idea of them. On the other
hand, the attentive reader of a single saga can usually give a very good guess at the general
nature of any other from a brief description of it, though he must of course miss the individual
touches of poetry and of character. And though I speak with the humility of one who does not
pretend to Icelandic scholarship, I think that translations are here less inadequate than in
almost any other language, the attraction of the matter being so much greater than that of
the form. For those who will not take the slight trouble to read Dasent's Njala, or Morris
and Magnusson's Grettla, the next best idea attainable is perhaps from Sir Walter Scott's abstract
of the Eyrbyggja or Mr Blackwell's of the Kormak's Saga, or Mr Gosse's of Egla. Njal's Saga
deals with the friendship between the warrior Gunnar and the lawyer Njal, which, principally
owing to the black-heartedness of Gunnar's wife Hallgerd, brings destruction on both, Njal
and almost his whole family being burnt as the crowning point, but by no means the end, of
an intricate series of reciprocal murders. For the blood-feuds of Iceland were as merciless
as those of Corsica, with the complication--thoroughly Northern and not in the least Southern--of
a most elaborate, though not entirely impartial, system of judicial inquiries and compensations,
either by fine or exile. To be outlawed for murder, either in casual affray or in deliberate
attack, was almost as regular a part of an Icelandic gentleman's avocations from his home and
daily life as a journey on viking or trading intent, and was often combined with one or both.
But outlawry and fine by no means closed the incident invariably, though they sometimes did
so far as the feud was concerned: and there is hardly one saga which does not mainly or partly
turn on a tangle of outrages and inquests.

[Sidenote: Njala.]

[Sidenote: Laxdæla.]

As Njala is the most complete and dramatic of the sagas where love has no very prominent part
except in the Helen-like dangerousness, if not exactly Helen-like charm, of Hallgerd, of whom
it might certainly be said that

    "Where'er she came,
    She brought Calamity";

so Laxdæla is the chief of those in which love figures, though on the male side at least there
is no lover that interests us as much as the hapless, reckless poet Kormak, or as Gunnlaug
Serpent's-Tongue. The Earthly Paradise should have made familiar to all the quarrel or, if
hardly quarrel, feud between the cousins Kiartan and Bodli, or Bolli, owing to the fatal fascinations
of Gudrun. Gudrun is less repulsive than Hallgerd, but she cannot be said to be entirely free
from the drawbacks which, as above suggested, are apt to be found in the Icelandic heroine.
It is more difficult to sentiment, if not to morality, to pardon four husbands than many times
four lovers, and the only persons with whom Gudrun's relations are wholly agreeable is Kiartan,
who was not her husband. But the pathos of the story, its artful unwinding, and the famous
utterance of the aged heroine--

    "I did the worst to him I loved the most,"

which is almost literally from the Icelandic, redeem anything unsympathetic in the narrative:
and the figure of Bodli, a strange mixture of honour and faithlessness to the friend he loves
and murders, is one of the most striking among the thralls of Venus in literature.

[Sidenote: Eyrbyggja.]

The defect of the Eyrbyggja Saga is its want of any central interest; for it is the history
not of a person, nor even of one single family, but of a whole Icelandic district with its
inhabitants from the settlement onwards. Its attraction, therefore, lies rather in episodes--the
rivalry of the sorceresses Katla and Geirrid; the circumventing of the (in this case rather
sinned against than sinning) bersarks Hall and Leikner; the very curious ghost-stories; and
the artful ambition of Snorri the Godi. Still, to make an attractive legend of a sort of "county
history" may be regarded as a rare triumph, and the saga is all the more important because
it shows, almost better than any other, the real motive of nearly all these stories--that they
are real chansons de geste, family legends, with a greater vividness and individuality than
the French genius could then impart, though presented more roughly.

[Sidenote: Egla.]

The Saga of Egil Skallagrimsson, again, shifts its special points of attraction. It is the
history partly of the family of Skallagrim, but chiefly of his son Egil, in opposition to Harald
Harfagr and his son Eric Blood-axe, of Egil's wars and exploits in England and elsewhere, of
his service to King Athelstan at Brunanburh, of the faithfulness of his friend Arinbiorn, and
the hero's consequent rescue from the danger in which he had thrust himself by seeking his
enemy King Eric at York, of his son's shipwreck and Egil's sad old age, and of many other moving
events. This has the most historic interest of any of the great sagas, and not least of the
personal appeal. Perhaps, indeed, it is more like a really good historical novel than any other.

[Sidenote: Grettla.]

If, however, it were not for the deficiency of feminine character (a deficiency which rehandlers
evidently felt and endeavoured to remedy by the expedient of tacking on an obvious plagiarism
from Tristan as an appendix, ostensibly dealing with the avenging of the hero), the fifth,
Grettis Saga or Grettla, would perhaps be the best of all.

[Sidenote: Its critics.]

It is true that some experts have found fault with this as late in parts, and bolstered out
with extraneous matter in other respects beside the finale just referred to. The same critics
denounce its poetical interludes (see infra) as spurious, object to some traits in it as coarse,
and otherwise pick it to pieces. Nevertheless there are few sagas, if there are any, which
produce so distinct and individual an effect, which remind us so constantly that we are in
Iceland and not elsewhere. In pathos and variety of interest it cannot touch Njala or Laxdæla:
in what is called "weirdness," in wild vigour, it surpasses, I think, all others; and the supernatural
element, which is very strong, contrasts, I think, advantageously with the more business-like
ghostliness of Eyrbyggja.

After an overture about the hero's forebears, which in any other country would be as certainly
spurious as the epilogue, but to which the peculiar character of saga-writing gives a rather
different claim here, the story proper begins with a description of the youth of Grettir the
Strong, second son to Asmund the Grey-haired of Biarg, who had made much money by sea-faring,
and Asdis, a great heiress and of great kin. The sagaman consults poetical justice very well
at first, and prepares us for an unfortunate end by depicting Grettir as, though valiant and
in a way not ungenerous, yet not merely an incorrigible scapegrace, but somewhat unamiable
and even distinctly ferocious. That, being made gooseherd, and finding the birds troublesome,
he knocks them about, killing some goslings, may not be an unpardonable atrocity. And even
when, being set to scratch his father's back, he employs a wool-comb for that purpose, much
to the detriment of the paternal skin and temper, it does not very greatly go beyond the impishness
of a naughty boy. But when, being promoted to mind the horses, and having a grudge against
a certain "wise" mare named Keingala, because she stays out at graze longer than suits his
laziness, he flays the unhappy beast alive in a broad strip from shoulder to tail, the thing
goes beyond a joke. Also he is represented, throughout the saga, as invariably capping his
pranks or crimes with one of the jeering enigmatic epigrams in which one finds considerable
excuse for the Icelandic proneness to murder. However, in his boyhood, he does not go beyond
cruelty to animals and fighting with his equals; and his first homicide, on his way with a
friend of his father's to the Thing-Parliament, is in self-defence. Still, having no witnesses,
he is, though powerfully backed (an all-important matter), fined and outlawed for three years.
There is little love lost between him and his father, and he is badly fitted out for the grand
tour, which usually occupies a young Icelandic gentleman's first outlawry; but his mother gives
him a famous sword. On the voyage he does nothing but flirt with the mate's wife: and only
after strong provocation and in the worst weather consents to bale, which he does against eight
men.

They are, however, wrecked off the island of Haramsey, and Grettir, lodging with the chief
Thorfinn, at first disgusts folk here as elsewhere with his sulky, lazy ways. He acquires consideration,
however, by breaking open the barrow of Thorfinn's father, and not only bringing out treasures
(which go to Thorfinn), but fighting with and overcoming the "barrow-wight" (ghost) itself,
the first of the many supernatural incidents in the story. The most precious part of the booty
is a peculiar "short-sword." Also when Thorfinn's wife and house are left, weakly guarded,
to the mercy of a crew of unusually ruffianly bersarks, Grettir by a mixture of craft and sheer
valour succeeds in overcoming and slaying the twelve bersarks single-handed. Thorfinn on his
return presents him with the short-sword and becomes his fast friend. He has plenty of opportunity:
for Grettir, as usual, neither entirely by his own fault nor entirely without it, owing to
his sulky temper and sour tongue, successively slays three brothers, being in the last instance
saved only with the greatest difficulty by Thorfinn, his own half-brother Thorstein Dromond,
and others, from the wrath of Swein, Jarl of the district. So that by the time when he can
return to Iceland, he has made Norway too hot to hold him; and he lands in his native island
with a great repute for strength, valour, and, it must be added, quarrelsomeness. For some
time he searches about "to see if there might be anywhere somewhat with which he might contend."
He finds it at a distant farm, which is haunted by the ghost of a certain godless shepherd
named Glam, who was himself killed by Evil Ones, and now molests both stock and farm-servants.
Grettir dares the ghost, overcomes him after a tremendous conflict, which certainly resembles
that in Beowulf most strikingly,[174] and slays him (for Icelandic ghosts are mortal); but
not before Glam has spoken and pronounced a curse upon Grettir, that his strength, though remaining
great, shall never grow, that all his luck shall cease, and, finally, that the eyes of Glam
himself shall haunt him to the death.

[Footnote 174: It seems almost incredible that the resemblances between Beowulf and the Grettis
Saga should never have struck any one till Dr Vigfusson noticed them less than twenty years
ago. But the fact seems to be so; and nothing could better prove the rarity of that comparative
study of literature to which this series aims at being a modest contribution and incentive.]

Grettir at first cares little for this; but the last part of the curse comes on almost at once
and makes him afraid to be alone after dark, while the second is not long delayed. On the eve
of setting out once more for Norway, he quarrels with and slays a braggart named Thorbiorn;
during the voyage itself he is the unintentional cause of a whole household of men being burnt
to death; and lastly, by his own quarrelsome temper, and some "metaphysical aid," he misses
the chance of clearing himself by "bearing iron" (ordeal) before King Olaf at Drontheim. Olaf,
his own kinsman, tells him with all frankness that he, Grettir, is much too "unlucky" for himself
to countenance; and that though he shall have no harm in Norway, he must pack to Iceland as
soon as the sea is open. He accordingly stays during the winter, in a peace only broken by
the slaying of another bersark bully, and partly passed with his brother Thorstein Dromond.

Meanwhile Asmund has died, his eldest son Atli has succeeded him, and has been waylaid by men
suborned by Thorbiorn Oxmain, kinsman of the Thorbiorn whom Grettir slew before leaving Iceland
the second time. Atli escapes and slays his foes. Then Thorbiorn Oxmain himself visits Biarg
and slays the unarmed Atli, who is not avenged because it was Grettir's business to look after
the matter when he came home. But Glam's curse so works that, though plaintiff in this case,
he is outlawed in his absence for the burning of the house above referred to, in which he was
quite guiltless; and when he lands in Iceland it is to find himself deprived of all legal rights,
and in such case that no friend can harbour him except under penalty.

Grettir, as we might expect, is not much daunted by this complication of evils, but he lies
hid for a time at his mother's house and elsewhere, not so much to escape his own dangers as
to avenge Atli on Thorbiorn Oxmain at the right moment. At last he finds it; and Thorbiorn,
as well as his sixteen-year-old son Arnor, who rather disloyally helps him, is slain by Grettir
single-handed. His plight at first is not much worsened by this; for though the simple plan
of setting off Thorbiorn against Atli is not adopted, Grettir's case is backed directly by
his kinsmen and indirectly by the two craftiest men in Iceland, Snorri the Godi and Skapti
the Lawman, and the latter points out that as Grettir had been outlawed before it was decreed
that the onus of avenging Atli lay on him, a fatal flaw had been made in the latter proceeding,
and no notice could be taken of the death of Thorbiorn at all, though his kin must pay for
Atli. This fine would have been set off against Grettir's outlawry, and he would have become
a freeman, had not Thorir of Garth, the father of the men he had accidentally killed in the
burning house, refused; and so the well-meant efforts of Grettir's kin and friends fall through.

From this time till the end of his life he is a houseless outlaw, abiding in all the most remote
parts of the island--"Grettir's lairs," as they are called, it would seem, to this day--sometimes
countenanced for a short time by well-willing men of position, sometimes dwelling with supernatural
creatures,--Hallmund, a kindly spirit or cave-dweller with a hospitable daughter, or the half-troll
giant Thorir, a person of daughters likewise. But his case grows steadily worse. Partly owing
to sheer ill-luck and Glam's curse, partly, as the saga-writer very candidly tells us, because
he "was not an easy man to live withal," his tale of slayings and the feuds thereto appertaining
grows steadily. For the most part he lives by simple cattle-lifting and the like, which naturally
does not make him popular; twice other outlaws come to abide with him, and, after longer or
shorter time, try for his richly priced head, and though they lose their own lives, naturally
make him more and more desperate. Once he is beset by his enemy Thorir with eighty men; and
only comes off through the backing of his ghostly friend Hallmund, who not long after meets
his fate by no ignoble hand, and Grettir cannot avenge him. Again, Grettir is warmly welcomed
by a widow, Steinvor of Sand-heaps, at whose dwelling, in the oddest way, he takes up the full
Beowulf adventure and slays a troll-wife in a cave just as his forerunner slew Grendel's mother.
But in the end the hue and cry is too strong, and by advice of friends he flies to the steep
holm of Drangey in Holmfirth--a place where the top can only be won by ladders--with his younger
brother Illugi and a single thrall or slave. Illugi is young, but true as steel: the slave
is a fool, if not actually a traitor. After the bonders of Drangey have done what they could
to rid themselves of this very damaging and redoubtable intruder, they give up their shares
to a certain Thorbiorn Angle. Thorbiorn at first fares ill against Grettir, whose outlawry
is on the point of coming to an end, as none might last longer than twenty years. With the
help of a wound, witch-caused to Grettir, and the slave's treacherous laziness, Thorbiorn and
his crew climb the ladders and beset the brethren--Grettir already half dead with his gangrened
wound. The hero is slain with his own short-sword; the brave Illugi is overwhelmed with the
shields of the eighteen assailants, and then slaughtered in cold blood. But Thorbiorn reaps
little good, for his traffickings with witchcraft deprive him of his blood-money; the deaths
of his men, of whom Illugi and Grettir had slain not a few, are set against Illugi's own; and
Thorbiorn himself, after escaping to Micklegarth (Constantinople) and joining the Varangians,
is slain by Thorstein Dromond, who has followed him thither and joined the same Guard on purpose,
and who is made the hero of the appendix above spoken of.

[Sidenote: Merits of it.]

The defects of this are obvious, and may be probably enough accounted for in part by the supposition
of the experts above referred to--that the saga as we have it is rather later than the other
great sagas, and is a patchwork of divers hands. It may perhaps be added, as a more purely
literary criticism, that no one of these hands can have been quite a master, or that his work,
if it existed, must have been mutilated or disfigured by others. For the most is nowhere made,
except in the Glam fight and the last scenes on Drangey, of the admirable situations provided
by the story; and the presentation of Grettir as a man almost everywhere lacks the last touches,
while the sagaman has simply thrown away the opportunities afforded him by the insinuated amourettes
with Steinvor and the daughters of the friendly spirits, and has made a mere fabliau episode
of another thing of the kind. Nevertheless the attractions of Grettla are unique as regards
the mixture of the natural and supernatural; not inferior to any other as illustrating the
quaintly blended life of Iceland; and of the highest kind as regards the conception of the
hero--a not ungenerous Strength, guided by no intellectual greatness and by hardly any overmastering
passion, marred by an unsocial and overbearing temper, and so hardly needing the ill luck,
which yet gives poetical finish and dramatic force to the story, to cast itself utterly away.
For in stories, as in other games, play without luck is fatiguing and jejune, luck without
play childish. It is curious how touching is the figure of the ill-fated hero, not wholly amiable,
yet over-matched by Fortune, wandering in waste places of a country the fairest spots of which
are little better than a desert, forced by his terror of "Glam-sight" to harbour criminals
far worse than himself, and well knowing that they seek his life, grudgingly and fearfully
helped by his few friends, a public nuisance where he should have been a public champion, only
befriended heartily by mysterious shadowy personages of whom little is positively told, and
when, after twenty years of wild-beast life, his deliverance is at hand, perishing by a combination
of foul play on the part of his foes and neglect on that of his slave. At least once, too,
in that parting of Asdis with Grettir and Illugi, which ranks not far below the matchless epitaph
of Sir Ector on Lancelot, there is not only suggestion, but expression of the highest quality:--

[Sidenote: The parting of Asdis and her sons.]

"'Ah! my sons twain, there ye depart from me, and one death ye shall have together, for no
man may flee from that which is wrought for him. On no day now shall I see either of you once
again. Let one fate, then, be over you both; for I know not what weal ye go to get for yourselves
in Drangey, but there ye shall both lay your bones, and many shall grudge you that abiding-place.
Keep ye heedfully from wiles, for marvellously have my dreams gone. Be well ware of sorcery;
yet none the less shall ye be bitten with the edge of the sword, for nothing can cope with
the cunning of eld.' And when she had thus spoken she wept right sore. Then said Grettir, 'Weep
not, mother; for if we be set upon by weapons it shall be said of thee that thou hast had sons
and not daughters.' And therewith they parted."

[Sidenote: Great passages of the sagas.]

These moments, whether of incident or expression, are indeed frequent enough in the sagas,
though the main attraction may consist, as has been said, in the wild interest of the story
and the vivid individuality of the characters. The slaying of Gunnar of Lithend in Njala, when
his false wife refuses him a tress of hair to twist for his stringless bow, has rightly attracted
the admiration of the best critics; as has the dauntless resignation of Njal himself and Bergthora,
when both might have escaped their fiery fate. Of the touches of which the Egil's Saga is full,
few are better perhaps than the picture in a dozen words of King Eric Blood-axe "sitting bolt
upright and glaring" at the son of Skallagrim as he delivers the panegyric which is to save
his life, and the composition of which had been so nearly baulked by the twittering of the
witch-swallow under his eaves. The "long" kisses of Kormak and Steingerd, and the poet's unconscious
translation of Æschylus[175] as he says, "Eager to find my lady, I have scoured the whole house
with the glances of my eyes--in vain," dwell in the memory as softer touches. And for the sterner,
nothing can beat the last fight of Olaf Trygveson, where with the crack of Einar Tamberskelvir's
bow Norway breaks from Olaf's hands, and the king himself, the last man with Kolbiorn his marshal
to fight on the deck of the Long Serpent, springs, gold-helmed, mail-coated, and scarlet-kirtled,
into the waves, and sinks with shield held up edgeways[176] to weight him through the deep
green water.

[Footnote 175: Compare, mutatis mutandis, Agam., 410 sq., and Kormak's "Stray verses," ll.
41-44, in the Corpus, ii. 65.]

[Footnote 176: Heimskringla does not say "edgeways," but this is the clear meaning. Kolbiorn
held his shield flat and below him, so that it acted as a float, and he was taken. Olaf sank.]

[Sidenote: Style.]

The saga prose is straightforward and business-like, the dialogue short and pithy, with considerable
interspersion of proverbial phrase, but with, except in case of bad texts, very little obscurity.
It is, however, much interspersed also with verses which, like Icelandic verse in general,
are alliterative in prosody, and often of the extremest euphuism and extravagance in phrase.
All who have even a slight acquaintance with sagas know the extraordinary periphrases for common
objects, for men and maidens, for ships and swords, that bestrew them. There is, I believe,
a theory, not in itself improbable, that the more elaborate and far-fetched the style of this
imagery, the later and less genuine is likely to be the poem, if not the saga; but it is certain
that the germs of the style are to be found in the Havamal and the other earliest and most
certainly genuine examples.

It is perhaps well to add that very small sagas are called thættir ("scraps"), the same word
as "tait" in the Scots phrase "tait of wool." But it is admitted that it is not particularly
easy to draw the line between the two, and that there is no difference in real character. In
fact short sagas might be called thættir and vice versâ. Also, as hinted before, there is exceedingly
little comedy in the sagas. The roughest horse-play in practical joking, the most insolent
lampoons in verbal satire, form, as a rule, the lighter element; and pieces like the Bandamanna
Saga, which with tragic touches is really comic in the main, are admittedly rare.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Provençal mainly lyric.]

In regard to the second, and contrasted, division of the subject of the present chapter, it
has been already noted that, just as Icelandic at this period presents to the purview of the
comparative literary historian one main subject, if not one only--the saga--so Provençal presents
one main subject, and almost one only--the formal lyric. The other products of the Muse in
langue d'oc, whether verse or prose, are so scanty, and in comparison[177] so unimportant,
that even special historians of the subject have found but little to say about them. The earliest
monument of all, perhaps the earliest finished monument of literature in any Romance language,
the short poem on Boethius, in assonanced decasyllabic laisses,--even in its present form probably
older than our starting-point, and, it may be, two centuries older in its first form,--is indeed
not lyrical; nor is the famous and vigorous verse-history of the Albigensian War in chanson
style; nor the scanty remnants of other chansons, Girart de Rossilho, Daurel et Beton, Aigar
et Maurin, which exist; nor the later romans d'aventure of Jaufre, Flamenca, Blandin of Cornwall.
But in this short list almost everything of interest in our period--the flourishing period
of the literature--has been mentioned which is not lyrical.[178] And if these things, and others
like them in much larger number, had existed alone, it is certain that Provençal literature
would not hold the place which it now holds in the comparative literary history of Europe.

[Footnote 177: Of course this is only in comparison. For instance, in Dr Suchier's Denkmäler
(Halle, 1883), which contains nearly 500 large pages of Provençal anecdota, about four-fifths
is devotional matter of various kinds and in various forms, prose and verse. But such matter,
which is common to all mediæval languages, is hardly literature at all, being usually translated,
with scarcely any expense of literary originality, from the Latin, or each other.]

[Footnote 178: Alberic's Alexander (v. chap. iv.) is of course Provençal in a way, and there
was probably a Provençal intermediary between the Chanson d'Antioche and the Spanish Gran Conquesta
de Ultramar. But we have only a few lines of the first and nothing of the second.]

That place is due to its lyric, construing that term in a wide sense such as that (but indeed
a little wider) in which it has been already used with reference to the kindred and nearly
contemporary lyric of France proper. It is best to say "nearly contemporary," because it would
appear that Provençal actually had the start of French in this respect, though no great start:
and it is best to say "kindred" and not "daughter," because though some forms and more names
are common to the two, their developments are much more parallel than on the same lines, and
they are much more sisters than mother and daughter.

[Sidenote: Origin of this lyric.]

It would appear, though such things can never be quite certain, that, as we should indeed expect,
the first developments of Provençal lyric were of the hymn kind, and perhaps originally mixtures
of Romance and Latin. This mixture of the vernacular and the learned tongues, both spoken in
all probability with almost equal facility by the writer, is naturally not uncommon in the
Middle Ages: and it helps to explain the rapid transference of the Latin hymn-rhythms to vernacular
verse. Thus we have a Noel or Christmas poem not only written to the tune and in the measure
of a Latin hymn, In hoc anni circulo, not only crowning the Provençal six-syllable triplets
with a Latin refrain, "De virgine Maria," and other variations on the Virgin's title and name,
but with Latin verses alternate to the Provençal ones. This same arrangement occurs with a
Provençal fourth rhyme, which seems to have been a favourite one. It is arranged with a variety
which shows its earliness, for the fourth line is sometimes "in the air" rhyming to nothing,
sometimes rhymes with the other three, and sometimes forces its sound on the last of them,
so that the quatrain becomes a pair of couplets.

[Sidenote: Forms.]

The earliest purely secular lyrics, however, are attributed to William IX., Count of Poitiers,
who was a crusader in the very first year of the twelfth century, and is said to have written
an account of his journey which is lost. His lyrics survive to the number of some dozen, and
show that the art had by his time received very considerable development. For their form, it
may suffice to say that of those given by Bartsch[179] the first is in seven-lined stanzas,
rhymed aaaabab, the a-rhyme lines being iambic dimeters, and the b's monometers. Number two
has five six-lined stanzas, all dimeters, rhymed aaabab: and a four-lined finale, rhymed ab,
ab. The third is mono-rhymed throughout, the lines being disyllabic with licence to extend.
And the fourth is in the quatrain aaab, but with the b rhyme identical throughout, capped with
a couplet ab. If these systems be compared with the exact accounts of early French, English,
and German lyric in chapters v.-vii., it will be seen that Provençal probably, if not certainly,
led the way in thus combining rhythmic arrangement and syllabic proportion with a cunning variation
of rhyme-sound. It was also the first language to classify poetry, as it may be called, by
assigning special forms to certain kinds of subject or--if not quite this--to constitute classes
of poems themselves according to their arrangement in line, stanza, and rhyme. A complete prosody
of the language of canso and sirvente, of vers and cobla, of planh, tenso, tornejamens, balada,
retroensa, and the rest, would take more room than can be spared here, and would hardly be
in place if it were otherwise. All such prosodies tend rather to the childish, as when, for
instance, the pastorela, or shepherdess poem in general, was divided into porquiera, cabreira,
auqueira, and other things, according as the damsel's special wards were pigs or goats or geese.
Perhaps the most famous, peculiar, and representative of Provençal forms are the alba, or poem
of morning parting, and the sirvente, or poem not of love. The sestina, a very elaborate canzonet,
was invented in Provence and borrowed by the Italians. But it is curious to find that the sonnet,
the crown and flower of all artificial poetry, though certainly invented long before the decadence
of Provençal, was only used in Provençal by Italian experimenters. The poets proper of the
langue d'oc were probably too proud to admit any form that they had not invented themselves.

[Footnote 179: The Grundriss zur Geschichte der Provenzalischen Literatur (Elberfeld, 1872)
and the Chrestomathie Provençale (3d ed., Elberfeld, 1875) of this excellent scholar will not
soon be obsolete, and may, in the peculiar conditions of the case, suffice all but special
students in a degree hardly possible in any other literature. Mahn's Troubadours and the older
works of Raynouard and Fauriel are the chief storehouses of wider information, and separate
editions of the works of the chief poets are being accumulated by modern, chiefly German, scholars.
An interesting and valuable addition to the English literature of the subject has been made,
since the text was written, by Miss Ida Farnell's Lives of the Troubadours, a translation with
added specimens of the poets and other editorial matter.]

[Sidenote: Many men, one mind.]

Next in noteworthiness to the variety of form of the Provençal poets is their number. Even
the multitude of trouvères and Minnesingers dwindles beside the list of four hundred and sixty
named poets, for the twelfth and thirteenth centuries only, which Bartsch's list contains;
some, it is true, credited with only a single piece, but others with ten, twenty, fifty, or
even close to a hundred, not to mention an anonymous appendix of over two hundred and fifty
poems more. Great, however, as is the bulk of this division of literature, hardly any has more
distinct and uniform--its enemies may say more monotonous--characteristics. It is not entirely
composed of love-poetry; but the part devoted to this is so very much the largest, and so very
much the most characteristic, that popular and almost traditional opinion is scarcely wrong
in considering love-poetry and Provençal poetry to be almost, and with the due limitation in
the first case, convertible terms.

[Sidenote: Example of rhyme-schemes.]

The spirit of this poetry is nowhere better shown than in the refrain of an anonymous alba,
which begins--

    "En un verger sotz folha d'albespi,"

and which has for burden--

    "Oi deus! oi deus, de l'alba, tant tost ve!"

of which an adaptation by Mr Swinburne is well known. "In the Orchard," however, is not only
a much longer poem than the alba from which it borrows its burden, but is couched in a form
much more elaborate, and has a spirit rather early Italian than Provençal. It is, indeed, not
very easy to define the Provençal spirit itself, which has sometimes been mistaken, and oftener
exaggerated. Although the average troubadour poem--whether of love, or of satire, or, more
rarely, of war--is much less simple in tone than the Northern lyric already commented on, it
cannot be said to be very complex; and, on the whole, the ease, accomplishment, and, within
certain strict limits, variety of the form are more remarkable than any intensity or volume
of passion or of thought. The musical character (less inarticulate and more regular), which
has also been noted in the poems of the trouvères, is here eminent: though the woodnote wild
of the Minnesinger is quite absent or very rarely present. The facility of double rhymes, with
a full vowel sound in each syllable, has a singular and very pleasing effect, as in the piece
by Marcabrun beginning--

    "L'autrier jost una sebissa,"

"the other day by a hedge," the curiously complicated construction of which is worth dwelling
on as a specimen. It consists of six double stanzas, of fourteen lines or two septets each,
finished by a sestet, aabaab. The septets are rhymed aaabaab; and though the a rhymes vary
in each set of fourteen, the b rhymes are the same throughout; and the first of them in each
septet is the same word, vilana (peasant girl), throughout. Thus we have as the rhymes of the
first twenty-eight lines sebissa, mestissa, massissa, vilana, pelissa, treslissa, lana; planissa,
faitissa, fissa, vilana, noirissa, m'erissa, sana; pia, via, companhia, vilana, paria, bestia,
soldana; sia, folia, parelharia, vilana, s'estia, bailia, l'ufana.

[Sidenote: Provençal poetry not great.]

Such a carillon of rhymes as this is sometimes held to be likely to concentrate the attention
of both writer and reader too much on the accompaniment, and to leave the former little time
to convey, and the latter little chance of receiving, any very particularly choice sense. This
most certainly cannot be laid down as a universal law; there are too many examples to the contrary,
even in our own language, not to go further. But it may be admitted that when the styles of
literature are both fashionable and limited, and when a very large number of persons endeavour
to achieve distinction in them, there is some danger of something of the sort coming about.
No nation has ever been able, in the course of less than two centuries, to provide four hundred
and sixty named poets and an indefinitely strong reinforcement of anonyms, all of whom have
native power enough to produce verse at once elaborate in form and sovereign in spirit; and
the peoples of the langue d'oc, who hardly together formed a nation, were no exception to the
rule. That rule is a rule of "minor poetry," accomplished, scholarly, agreeable, but rarely
rising out of minority.

[Sidenote: But extraordinarily pedagogic.]

Yet their educating influence was undoubtedly strong, and their actual production not to be
scorned. In the capacity of teachers they were not without strong influence on their Northern
countrymen; they certainly and positively acted as direct masters to the literary lyric both
of Italy and Spain; they at least shared with the trouvères the position of models to the Minnesingers.
It is at first sight rather surprising that, considering the intimate relations between England
and Aquitaine during the period--considering that at least one famous troubadour, Bertran de
Born, is known to have been concerned in the disputes between Henry II. and his sons--Provençal
should not have exercised more direct influence over English literature. It was a partly excusable
mistake which made some English critics, who knew that Richard Coeur de Lion, for instance,
was himself not unversed in the "manner of trobar," assert or assume, until within the present
century, that it did exercise such influence. But, as a matter of fact, it did not; and the
reason is sufficiently simple, or at least (for it is double rather than simple) sufficiently
clear.

[Sidenote: Though not directly on English.]

In the first place, English was not, until quite the end of the flourishing period of Provençal
poetry, and specially at the period above referred to, in a condition to profit by Provençal
models; while in the fourteenth century, when English connection with the south of France was
closer still, Provençal was in its decadence. And, in the second place, the structure and spirit
of the two tongues almost forbade imitation of the one in the other. It was Northern, not Southern,
French that helped to make English proper out of Anglo-Saxon; and the gap between Northern
French and Southern French themselves was far wider than between Provençal and the Peninsular
tongues. To which things, if any one pleases, he may add the difference of the spirit of the
two races; but this is always vague and uncertain ground, and is best avoided when we can tread
on the firm land of history and literature proper. Such a rhyme-arrangement as that above set
forth is probably impossible in English; even now it will be observed that Mr Swinburne, the
greatest master of double and treble rhymes that we have ever had, rarely succeeds in giving
even the former with a full spondaic effect of vowel such as is easy in Provençal. In "The
Garden of Proserpine" itself, as in the double rhymes, where they occur, of "The Triumph of
Time" (the greatest thing ever written in the Provençal manner, and greater than anything in
Provençal), the second vowels of the rhymes are never full. And there too, as I think invariably
in English, the poet shows his feeling of the intolerableness of continued double rhyme by
making the odd verses rhyme plump and with single sound.

Of poetry so little remarkable in individual manner or matter it is impossible to give abstracts,
such as those which have been easy, and it may be hoped profitable, in some of the foregoing
chapters; and prolonged analyses of form are tedious, except to the expert and the enthusiast.
With some brief account, therefore, of the persons who chiefly composed this remarkable mass
of lyric we may close a notice of the subject which is superficially inadequate to its importance,
but which, perhaps, will not seem so to those who are content not merely to count pages but
to weigh moments. The moment which Provençal added to the general body of force in European
literature was that of a limited, somewhat artificial, but at the same time exquisitely artful
and finished lyrical form, so adapted to the most inviting of the perennial motives of literature
that it was sure to lead to imitation and development. It gave means and held up models to
those who were able to produce greater effects than are to be found in its own accomplishment:
yet was not its accomplishment, despite what is called its monotony, despite its limits and
its defects, other than admirable and precious.

[Sidenote: Some troubadours.]

The "first warbler," Count William IX. of Poitiers, has already been mentioned, and his date
fixed at exactly the first year of our period. His chief immediate successors or contemporaries
were Cercamon ("Cherchemonde," Cursor Mundi); the above quoted Marcabrun, who is said to have
accompanied Cercamon in his wanderings, and who has left much more work; and Bertrand de Ventadorn
or Ventadour, perhaps the best of the group, a farmer's son of the place from which he takes
his noble-sounding name, and a professional lover of the lady thereof. Of Jaufre (Geoffrey)
Rudel of Blaye, whose love for the lady of Tripoli, never yet seen by him, and his death at
first sight of her, supply, with the tragedy of Cabestanh and the cannibal banquet, the two
most famous pieces of Troubadour anecdotic history, we have half-a-dozen pieces. In succession
to these, Count Rambaut of Orange and Countess Beatrice of Die keep up the reputation of the
gai saber as an aristocratic employment, and the former's poem--

    "Escoutatz mas no sai que s'es"

(in six-lined stanzas, rhymed ababab, with prose "tags" to each, something in the manner of
the modern comic song), is at least a curiosity. The primacy of the whole school in its most
flourishing time, between 1150 and 1250, is disputed by Arnaut Daniel (a great master of form,
and as such venerated by his greater Italian pupils) and Giraut de Bornelh, who is more fully
represented in extant work than most of his fellows, as we have more than fourscore pieces
of his. Peire or Peter Vidal, another typical troubadour, who was a crusader, an exceedingly
ingenious verse-smith, a great lover, and a proficient in the fantastic pranks which rather
brought the school into discredit, inasmuch as he is said to have run about on all fours in
a wolfskin in honour of his mistress Loba (Lupa); Gaucelm Faidit and Arnaut de Maroilh, Folquet
of Marseilles, and Rambaut of Vaqueras; the Monk of Montaudon and Bertrand de Born himself,
who with Peire Cardinal is the chief satirist (though the satire of the two takes different
forms); Guillem Figueira, the author of a long invective against Rome, and Sordello of mysterious
and contingent fame,--are other chief members, and of some of them we have early, perhaps contemporary,
Lives, or at least anecdotes. For instance, the Cabestanh or Cabestaing story comes from these.
The last name of importance in our period, if not the last of the right troubadours, is usually
taken to be that of Guiraut Riquier.

[Sidenote: Criticism of Provençal.]

It would scarcely be fair to say that the exploit attributed to Rambaut of Vaqueras, a poet
of the very palmiest time, at the juncture of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries--that of
composing a poem in lines written successively in three different forms of Provençal (langue
d'oc proper, Gascon, and Catalan), in langue d'oïl, and in Italian, with a coda line jumbled
up of all five--is a final criticism at once of the merits and the defects of this literature.
But it at least indicates the lines of such a criticism. By its marvellous suppleness, sweetness,
and adaptation to the verbal and metrical needs of poetry, Provençal served--in a fashion probably
impossible to the stiffer if more virile tongues--as an example in point of form to these tongues
themselves: and it achieved, at the same time with a good deal of mere gymnastic, exercises
in form of the most real and abiding beauty. But it had as a language too little character
of its own, and was too fatally apt to shade into the other languages--French on the one hand,
Spanish and Italian on the other--with which it was surrounded, and to which it was akin. And
coming to perfection at a time when no modern thought was distinctly formed, when positive
knowledge was at a low ebb, and when it had neither the stimulus of vigorous national life
nor the healthy occupation of what may be called varied literary business, it tended to become,
on the whole, too much of a plaything merely. Now, schools and playgrounds are both admirable
things, and necessary to man; but what is done in both is only an exercise or a relaxation
from exercise. Neither man nor literature can stay either in class-room or playing-field for
ever, and Provençal had scarcely any other places of abode to offer.

[Sidenote: Limitations of this chapter.]

There is something more than a freak, or a mere geographical adaptation, in taking together,
and at the last, the contributions of the three peninsulas which form the extreme south of
Europe. For in the present scheme they form, as it were, but an appendix to the present book.
The dying literature of Greece--if indeed it be not more proper to describe this phase of Byzantine
writing as ghostly rather than moribund--presents at most but one point of interest, and that
rather a Frage, a thesis, than a solid literary contribution. The literature of Italy prior
to the fourteenth century is such a daughter of Provençal on the one hand, and is so much more
appropriately to be taken in connection with Dante than by itself on the other, that it can
claim admission only to be, as it were, "laid on the table." And that of Spain, though full
of attraction, had also but just begun, and yields but one certain work of really high importance,
the Poema del Cid, for serious comment in our pages. In the case of Spain, and still more in
that of Italy, the scanty honour apparently paid here will be amply made up in other volumes
of the series. As much can hardly be said of Greece. Conscientious chroniclers of books may,
indeed, up to the sixteenth century find something which, though scarcely literature, is at
any rate written matter. And at the very last there is the attempt, rather respectable than
successful, to re-create at once the language and the literature, for the use of Greeks who
are at least questionably Hellenic, in relation to forms and subjects separated by more than
a millennium--by nearly two millennia--from the forms and the subjects in regard to which Greek
was once a living speech. But Greek literature, the living literary contribution of Greek to
Europe, almost ceases with the latest poets of the Anthology.

[Sidenote: Late Greek romance.]

In what has been called the "ghost" time, however, in that portion of it which belongs to our
present period, there is one shadow that flutters with a nearer approach to substance than
most. Some glance has been made above at the question, "What was the exact relation between
western romance and that later form of Greek novel-writing of which the chief relic is the
Hysminias and Hysmine[180] of Eustathius Macrembolita?" Were these stories, many of which must
be lost, or have not yet been recovered, direct, and in their measure original and independent,
continuations of the earlier school of Greek romance proper? Did they in that case, through
the Crusades or otherwise, come under the notice of the West, and serve as stimulants, if not
even directly as patterns, to the far greater achievements of Western romance itself? Do they,
on the other hand, owe something to models still farther East? Or are they, as has sometimes
been hinted, copies of Western romance itself? Had the still ingenious, though hopelessly effeminate,
Byzantine mind caught up the literary style of the visitors it feared but could not keep out?

[Footnote 180: Ed. Hercher, Erotici Scriptores Græci (2 vols., Leipzig, 1858), ii. 161-286.]

[Sidenote: Its difficulties as a subject.]

All these questions are questions exceedingly proper to be stated in a book of this kind; not
quite so proper to be worked out in it, even if the working out were possible. But it is impossible
for two causes--want of room, which might not be fatal; and want of ascertained fact, which
cannot but be so. Despite the vigorous work of recent generations on all literary and historical
subjects, no one has yet succeeded, and until some one more patient of investigation than fertile
in theory arises, no one is likely to succeed, in laying down the exact connection between
Eastern, Western, and, as go-between, Byzantine literature. Even in matters which are the proper
domain of history itself, such as those of the Trojan and Alexandrine Apocryphas, much is still
in the vague. In the case of Western Romance, of the later Greek stories, and of such Eastern
matter as, for instance, the story of Sharkan and that of Zumurrud and her master in the Arabian
Nights, the vague rules supreme. There were, perhaps, trouvère-knights in the garrisons of
Edessa or of Jôf who could have told us all about it. But nobody did tell: or if anybody did,
the tale has not survived.

[Sidenote: Anna Comnena, &c.]

But this interest of problem is not the only one that attaches to the "drama," as he calls
it, of Eustathius or Eumathius "the philosopher," who flourished at some time between the twelfth
and the fourteenth century, and is therefore pretty certainly ours. For the purposes of literary
history the book deserves to be taken as the typical contribution of Greek during the period,
much better than the famous Alexiad of Anna Comnena[181] in history, or the verse romances
of Eustathius's probable contemporaries Theodorus Prodromus and Nicetas Eugenianus.[182] The
princess's book, though historically important, and by no means disagreeable to read, is, as
literature, chiefly remarkable as exhibiting the ease and the comparative success with which
Greek lent itself to the formation of an artificial style noble, more like the writing of the
average (not the better) Frenchman of the eighteenth century than it is like anything else.
It is this peculiarity which has facilitated the construction of the literary pastiche called
Modern Greek, and perhaps it is this which will long prevent the production of real literature
in that language or pseudo-language. On the other hand, the books of Theodorus and Nicetas,
devoted, according to rule, to the loves respectively of Rhodanthe and Dosicles, of Charicles
and Drosilla, are written in iambic trimeters of the very worst and most wooden description.
It is doubtful whether even the great Tragic poets could have made the trimeter tolerable as
the vehicle of a long story. In the hands of Theodorus and Nicetas its monotony becomes utterly
sickening, while the level of the composition of neither is much above that of a by no means
gifted schoolboy, even if we make full allowance for the changes in prosody, and especially
in quantity, which had set in for Greek as they had for other languages. The question whether
these iambics are more or less terrible than the "political verses"[183] of the Wise Manasses,[184]
which usually accompany them in editions, and which were apparently inserted in what must have
been the inconceivably dreary romance of "Aristander and Callithea," must be left to individual
taste to decide. Manasses also wrote a History of the World in the same rhythm, and it is possible
that he may have occasionally forgotten which of the two books he was writing at any given time.

[Footnote 181: Ed. Reifferscheid. 2 vols. Leipzig, 1884.]

[Footnote 182: Following Eustathius in Hercher, op. cit.]

[Footnote 183: These political verses are fifteen-syllabled, with a cæsura at the eighth, and
in a rhythm ostensibly accentual.]

[Footnote 184: Erotici Scriptores, ii. 555.]

[Sidenote: Hysminias and Hysmine.]

[Sidenote: Its style.]

But Hysminias and Hysmine[185] has interests of character which distinguish its author and
itself, not merely from the herd of chroniclers and commentators who make up the bulk of Byzantine
literature so-called, but even from such more respectable but somewhat featureless work as
Anna Comnena's. It is not a good book; but it is by no means so extremely bad as the traditional
judgment (not always, perhaps, based on or buttressed by direct acquaintance with the original)
is wont to give out. On one at least of the sides of this interest it is quite useless to read
it except in the original, for the attraction is one of style. Neither Lyly nor any of our
late nineteenth-century "stylists" has outgone, perhaps none has touched, Eustathius in euphuism.
It is needless to say that while the simplicity of the best Greek style usually prefers the
most direct and natural order, its suppleness lends itself to almost any gymnastic, and its
lucidity prevents total confusion from arising. Eustathius has availed himself of these opportunities
for "raising his mother tongue to a higher power" to the very utmost. No translation can do
justice to the elaborate foppery of even the first sentence,[186] with its coquetry of arrangement,
its tormented structure of phrase, its jingle of sound-repetition, its desperate rejection
of simplicity in every shape and form. To describe precisely the means resorted to would take
a chapter at least. They are astonishingly modern--the present tense, the use of catchwords
like [Greek: holos], the repetitions and jingles above referred to. Excessively elaborate description
of word-painting, though modern too, can hardly be said to be a novelty: it had distinguished
most of the earlier Greek novelists, especially Achilles Tatius. But there is something in
the descriptions of Hysminias and Hysmine more mediæval than those of Achilles, more like the
Romance of the Rose, to which, indeed, there is a curious resemblance of atmosphere in the
book. Triplets of epithet--"a man athirst, and parched, and boiling"--meet us. There is a frequent
economy of conjunctions. There is the resort to personification--for instance, in the battle
of Love and Shame, which serves as climax to the elaborate description of the lovers' kissing.
In short, all our old friends--the devices which every generation of seekers after style parades
with such a touching conviction that they are quite new, and which every literary student knows
to be as old as literature--are to be found here. The language is in its decadence: the writer
has not much to say. But it is surprising how much, with all his drawbacks, he accomplishes.

[Footnote 185: Sometimes spelt Ismenias and Ismene. I believe it was first published in an
Italian translation of the late Renaissance, and it has appeared in other languages since.
But it is only worth reading in its own.]

[Footnote 186: [Greek: Polis Eurykômis kai talla men agathê, hoti kai thalattê stephanoutai
kai poilmois katarreitai kai leimôsi koma kai tryphais euthêneitai pantodapais, ta d' eis theous
eusebês, kai hyper tas chrysas Athênas holê bômos, holê thyma, theois anathêma.]]

[Sidenote: Its story.]

Whether the book, either as an individual composition, or more probably as a member of an extinct
class, is as important in matter and in tone as it is in style is more doubtful. The style
itself, as to which there is no doubt, may perhaps colour the matter too much. All that can
be safely said is that it reads with distinctly modern effect after Heliodorus and Achilles,
Longus and Xenophon. The story is not much. Hysminias, a beautiful youth of the city of Eurycomis,
is chosen for a religious embassy or kerukeia to the neighbouring town of Aulicomis. The task
of acting as host to him falls on one Sosthenes, whose daughter Hysmine strikes Hysminias with
love at first sight. The progress of their passion is facilitated by the pretty old habit of
girls acting as cupbearers, and favoured by accident to no small degree, the details of the
courtship being sometimes luscious, but adjusted to less fearless old fashions than the wooings
of Chloe or of Melitta. Adventures by land and sea follow; and, of course, a happy ending.

[Sidenote: Its handling.]

But what is really important is the way in which these things are handled. It has as mere story-telling
little merit: the question is whether the spirit, the conduct, the details, do not show a temper
much more akin to mediæval than to classical treatment. I think they do. Hysminias is rather
a silly, and more than rather a chicken-hearted, fellow; his conduct on board ship when his
beloved incurs the fate of Jonah is eminently despicable: but then he was countryman ex hypothesi
of Mourzoufle, not of Villehardouin. The "battailous" spirit of the West is not to be expected
in a Byzantine sophist. Whether something of its artistic and literary spirit is not to be
detected in him is a more doubtful question. For my part, I cannot read of Hysmine without
being reminded of Nicolette, as I am never reminded in other parts of the Scriptores Erotici.

[Sidenote: Its "decadence."]

Yet, experiment or remainder, imitation or original, one cannot but feel that the book, like
all the literature to which it belongs, has more of the marks of death than of life in it.
Its very elegances are "rose-coloured curtains for the doctors"--the masque of a moribund art.
Some of them may have been borrowed by, rather than from, younger and hopefuller craftsmanship,
but the general effect is the same. We are here face to face with those phenomena of "decadence,"
which, though they have often been exaggerated and wrongly interpreted, yet surely exist and
reappear at intervals--the contortions of style that cannot afford to be natural, the tricks
of word borrowed from literary reminiscence ([Greek: holos] itself in this way is at least
as old as Lucian), the tormented effort at detail of description, at "analysis" of thought
and feeling, of incident and moral. The cant phrase about being "né trop tard dans un monde
trop vieux" has been true of many persons, while more still have affected to believe it true
of themselves, since Eustathius: it is not much truer of any one than of him.

Curious as such specimens of a dying literature may be, it cannot but be refreshing to go westward
from it to the nascent literatures of Italy and of Spain, literatures which have a future instead
of merely a past, and which, independently of that somewhat illegitimate advantage, have characteristics
not unable to bear comparison with those of the past, even had it existed.

[Sidenote: Lateness of Italian.]

Between the earliest Italian and the earliest Spanish literature, however, there are striking
differences to be noted. Persons ignorant of the usual course of literary history might expect
in Italian a regular and unbroken development, literary as well as linguistic, of Latin. But,
as a matter of fact, the earliest vernacular literature in Italy shows very little trace of
classical influence[187]: and though that influence appears strongly in the age immediately
succeeding ours, and helps to produce the greatest achievements of the language, it may be
questioned whether its results were wholly beneficial. In the earliest Italian, or rather Sicilian,
poetry quite different influences are perceptible. One of them--the influence of the literatures
of France, both Southern and Northern--is quite certain and incontestable. The intercourse
between the various Romance-speaking nations surrounding the western Mediterranean was always
close; and the development of Provençal literature far anticipated, both in date and form,
that of any other. Moreover, some northern influence was undoubtedly communicated by the Norman
conquests of the eleventh century. But two other strains--one of which has long been asserted
with the utmost positiveness, while the latter has been a favourite subject of Italian patriotism
since the political unification of the country--are much more dubious. Because it is tolerably
certain that Italian poetry in the modern literary sense arose in Sicily, and because Sicily
was beyond all doubt almost more Saracen than Frank up to the twelfth century, it was long,
and has not quite ceased to be, the fashion to assign a great, if not the greatest, part to
Arabian literature. Not merely the sonnet (which seems to have arisen in the two Sicilies),
but even the entire system of rhymed lyrical verse, common in the modern languages, has been
thus referred to the East by some.

[Footnote 187: I have not thought it proper, considering the system of excluding mere hypothesis
which I have adopted, to give much place here to that interesting theory of modern "Romanists"
which will have it that Latin classical literature was never much more than a literary artifice,
and that the modern Romance tongues and literatures connect directly, through that famous lingua
romana rustica and earlier forms of it, vigorous though inarticulate, in classical times themselves,
with primitive poetry--"Saturnian," "Fescennine," and what not. All this is interesting, and
it cannot be said, in the face of inscriptions, of the scraps of popular speech in the classics,
&c., to be entirely guesswork. But a great deal of it is.]

[Sidenote: The "Saracen" theory.]

This matter can probably never be pronounced upon, with complete satisfaction to readers, except
by a literary critic who is equally competent in Eastern and Western history and literature,
a person who certainly has not shown himself as yet. What can be said with some confidence
is, that the Saracen theory of Literature, like the Saracen theory of Architecture, so soon
as it is carried beyond the advancing of a possible but slight and very indeterminate influence
and colouring, has scarcely the slightest foundation in known facts, and is very difficult,
if not impossible, to reconcile with facts that are known, while it is intrinsically improbable
to the very highest degree. As has been pointed out above, the modern prosody of Europe is
quite easily and logically explicable as the result of the juxtaposition of the Latin rhythms
of the Church service, and the verse systems indigenous in the different barbaric nations.
That the peculiar cast and colour of early Italian poetry may owe something of that difference
which it exhibits, even in comparison with Provençal, much more with French, most of all with
Teutonic poetry, to contact with Arabian literature, is not merely possible but probable. Anything
more must be regarded as not proven, and not even likely.

[Sidenote: The "folk-song" theory.]

[Sidenote: Ciullo d'Alcamo.]

Of late, however, attempts have been made to assign the greater part of the matter to no foreign
influence whatever, but to native folk-songs, in which at the present time, and no doubt for
a long time back, Italy is beyond all question rich above the wont of European countries. But
this attempt, however interesting and patriotic, labours under the same fatal difficulties
which beset similar attempts in other languages. It may be regarded as perfectly certain that
we do not possess any Italian popular poem in any form which can have existed prior to the
thirteenth century; and only such poems would be of any use. To argue, as is always argued
in such cases, that existing examples show, by this or that characteristic, that in other forms
they must have existed in the twelfth century or even earlier, is only an instance of that
learned childishness which unfortunately rules so widely in literary, though it has been partly
expelled from general, history. "May have been" and "must have been" are phrases of no account
to a sound literary criticism, which insists upon "was." And in reference to this particular
subject of Early Italian Poetry the reader may be referred to the very learned dissertation[188]
of Signor Alessandro d'Ancona on the Contrasto of Ciullo d'Alcamo, which has been commonly
regarded as the first specimen of Italian poetry, and has been claimed for the beginning of
the thirteenth century, if not the end of the twelfth. He will, if the gods have made him in
the least critical, rise from the perusal with the pretty clear notion that whether Ciullo
d'Alcamo was "such a person," or whether he was Cielo dal Camo; whether the Contrasto was written
on the bridge of the twelfth and thirteenth century, or fifty years later; whether the poet
was a warrior of high degree or an obscure folk-singer; whether his dialect has been Tuscanised
or is still Sicilian with French admixture,--these are things not to be found out, things of
mere opinion and hypothesis, things good to write programmes and theses on, but only to be
touched in the most gingerly manner by sober history.

[Footnote 188: See Studj sulla Letteratura Italiana dei Primi Secoli. 2d ed. Milan: Fratelli
Treves, 1891. Pp. 241-458.]

To the critic, then, who deals with Dante--and especially to him, inasmuch as he has the privilege
of dealing with that priceless document, the De Vulgari Eloquio,[189]--may be left Ciullo,
or Cielo, and his successors the Frederician set, from the Emperor himself and Piero delle
Vigne downwards. More especially to him belong the poets of the late thirteenth century, Dante's
own immediate predecessors, contemporaries, and in a way masters--Guinicelli, Cavalcanti, Sinibaldi,
and Guittone d'Arezzo (to whom the canonical form of the sonnet used at one time to be attributed,
and may be again); Brunetto Latini, of fiery memory; Fra Jacopone,[190] great in Latin, eccentric
in Italian, and others. It will be not merely sufficient, but in every way desirable, here
to content ourselves with an account of the general characteristics of this poetry (contemporary
prose, though existent, is of little importance), and to preface this by some remarks on the
general influences and contributions of material with which Italian literature started.

[Footnote 189: Obtainable in many forms, separately and with Dante's works. The Latin is easy
enough, but there is a good English translation by A.G. Ferrers Howell (London, 1890). Those
who like facsimiles may find one of the Grenoble MS., with a learned introduction, edited by
MM. Maignien and Prompt (Venice, 1892).]

[Footnote 190: Authorities differ oddly on Jacopone da Todi (v. p. 8) in his Italian work.
Professor d'Andrea's book, cited above, opens with an excellent essay on him.]

[Sidenote: Heavy debt to France.]

There is no valid reason for doubting that these influences and materials were mainly French.
As has been partly noted in a former chapter, the French chansons de geste made an early and
secure conquest of the Italian ear in the north, partly in translation, partly in the still
more unmistakable form of macaronic Italianised French. It has indeed been pointed out that
the Sicilian school was to some extent preceded by that of the Trevisan March, the most famous
member of which was Sordello. It would appear, however, that this school was even more distinctly
and exclusively a branch of Provençal than the Sicilian; and that the special characteristic
of the latter did not appear in it. The Carlovingian poems (and to some, though a much less,
extent the Arthurian) made a deep impression both on popular and on cultivated Italian taste
as a matter of subject; but their form, after its first results in variation and translation,
was not perpetuated; and when Italian epic made its appearance some centuries later, it inclined
for the most part to burlesque, or at least to the tragi-comic, until the serious genius of
Tasso gave it a new, but perhaps a not wholly natural, direction.

[Sidenote: Yet form and spirit both original.]

In that earliest, really national, and vernacular school, however, which has been the chief
subject of discourse, the direction was mainly and almost wholly towards lyric; and the supremacy
of the sonnet and the canzone is the less surprising because their rivals were for the most
part less accomplished examples of the same kind. The Contrasto[191] of Ciullo itself is a
poem in lyric stanzas of five lines--three of sixteen syllables, rhymed a, and two hendecasyllabics,
rhymed b. The rhymes are fairly exact, though sometimes loose, o and u, e and i, being permitted
to pair. The poem, a simple discourse or dispute between two lovers, something in the style
of some French pastourelles, displays however, with some of the exaggeration and stock phrase
of Provençal (perhaps we might say of all) love-poetry, little or nothing of that peculiar
mystical tone which we have been accustomed to associate with early Italian verse, chiefly
represented, as it is to most readers, by the Vita Nuova, where the spirit is slightly altered
in itself, and speaks in the mouth of a poet greater in his weakest moments than the whole
generation from Ciullo to Guittone in their strongest. This spirit, showing itself in the finer
and more masculine form in Dante himself, in the more feminine and weaker in Petrarch, not
merely gives us sublime or exquisite poetry in the fourteenth century, but in the sixteenth
contributes very largely to launch, on fresh careers of achievement, the whole poetry of France
and of England. But it is fair to acknowledge its presence in Dante's predecessors, and at
the same time to confess that they themselves do not seem to have learned it from any one,
or at least from any single master or group of masters. The Provençal poets deify passion,
and concentrate themselves wholly upon it; but it is seldom, indeed, that we find the "metaphysical"
touch in the Provençals proper. And it is this--this blending of love and religion, of scholasticism
and minnedienst (to borrow a word wanted in other languages than that in which it exists)--that
is attributed by the partisans of the East to Arabian influence, or at least to Arabian contact.
Some stress has been laid on the testimony of Ibn Zobeir about the end of the twelfth century,
and consequently not long before even the latest date assigned to Ciullo, that Alcamo itself
was entirely Mussulman in belief.

[Footnote 191: The text with comment, stanza by stanza, is to be found in the book cited above.]

[Sidenote: Love-lyric in different European countries.]

On these points it is not possible to decide: the point on which to lay the finger for our
present purpose is that the contribution of Italy at this time was, on the one hand, the further
refinement of the Provençal attention to form, and the production of one capital instrument
of European poetry--the sonnet; on the other, the conveyance, by means of this instrument and
others, of a further, and in one way almost final, variation of the poetic expression of love.
It is of the first importance to note the characteristics, in different nations at nearly the
same time, of this rise of lyrical love-poetry. We find it in Northern and Southern France,
probably at about the same time; in Germany and Italy somewhat later, and almost certainly
in a state of pupilship to the French. All, in different ways, display a curious and delightful
metrical variety, as if the poet were trying to express the eternal novelty, combined with
the eternal oneness, of passion by variations of metrical form. In each language these variations
reflect national peculiarities--in Northern French and German irregular bursts with a multiplicity
of inarticulate refrain, in Provençal and Italian a statelier and more graceful but somewhat
more monotonous arrangement and proportion.

And the differences of spirit are equally noticeable, though one must, as always, be careful
against generalising too rashly as to their identity with supposed national characteristics.
The innumerable love-poems of the trouvères, pathetic sometimes, and sometimes impassioned,
are yet, as a rule, cheerful, not very deep, verging not seldom on pure comedy. The so-called
monotonous enthusiasm of the troubadour, his stock-images, his musical form, sublime to a certain
extent the sensual side of love, but confine themselves to that side merely, as a rule, or
leave it only to indulge in the purely fantastic.

Of those who borrowed from them, the Germans, as we should expect, lean rather to the Northern
type, but vary it with touches of purity, and other touches of religion; the Italians to the
Southern, exalting it into a mysticism which can hardly be called devotional, though it at
times wears the garb of devotion.[192] Among those collections for which the student of letters
pines, not the least desirable would be a corpus of the lyric poets of Europe during the twelfth
and thirteenth centuries. We should then see--after a fashion difficult if not impossible in
the sporadic study of texts edited piecemeal, and often overlaid with comment not of the purely
literary kind--at once the general similarity and the local or individual exceptions, the filiation
of form, the diffusion of spirit. No division of literature, perhaps, would serve better as
a kind of chrestomathy for illustrating the positions on which the scheme of this series is
based. And though it is overshadowed by the achievements of its own pupils; though it has a
double portion of the mediæval defect of "school"-work--of the almost tedious similarity of
different men's manner--the Italian poetry, which is practically the Italian literature, of
the thirteenth century would be not the least interesting part of such a corpus.

[Footnote 192: "Sacro erotismo," "baccanale cristiano," are phrases of Professor d'Andrea's.]

[Sidenote: Position of Spanish.]

The Spanish literature[193] with which we have to do is probably inferior in bulk even to that
of Italy; it is certainly far less rich in named and more or less known authors, while it is
a mere drop as compared with the Dead Sea of Byzantine writing. But by virtue of at least one
really great composition, the famous Poema del Cid, it ranks higher than either of these groups
in sheer literary estimation, while from the point of view of literary history it is perhaps
more interesting than the Italian, and certainly far more interesting than the Greek. It does
not rank with French as an instance of real literary preponderance and chieftainship; or with
German as an example of the sudden if short blossoming of a particular period and dialect into
great if not wholly original literary prominence; much less with Icelandic and Provençal, as
containing a "smooth and round" expression of certain definite characteristics of literature
and life once for all embodied. It has to give way not merely to Provençal, but to Italian
itself as an example of early scholarship in literary form. But it makes a most interesting
pair to English as an instance of vigorous and genuine national literary development; while,
if it is inferior to English, as showing that fatal departmental or provincial separation,
that "particularism" which has in many ways been so disastrous to the Peninsula, it once more,
by virtue of the Poema, far excels our own production of the period in positive achievement,
and foretells the masterpieces of the national poetry in a way very different from any that
can be said to be shown in Layamon or the Ancren Riwle, even in the Arthurian romances and
the early lyrics.

[Footnote 193: Spanish can scarcely be said to have shared, to an extent commensurate with
its interest, in the benefit of recent study of the older forms of modern languages. There
is, at any rate in English, and I think elsewhere, still nothing better than Ticknor's History
of Spanish Literature (3 vols., London, 1849, and reprinted since), in the early part of which
he had the invaluable assistance of the late Don Pascual de Gayangos. Some scattered papers
may be found in Romania. Fortunately, almost all the known literary materials for our period
are to be found in Sanchez' Poesias Castellanas Anteriores al Siglo XV., the Paris (1842) reprint
of which by Ochoa, with a few valuable additions, I have used. The Poema del Cid is, except
in this old edition, rather discreditably inaccessible--Vollmöller's German edition (Halle,
1879), the only modern or critical one, being, I understand, out of print. It would be a good
deed if the Clarendon Press would furnish students with this, the only rival of Beowulf and
the Chanson de Roland in the combination of antiquity and interest.]

[Sidenote: Catalan-Provençal.]

The earliest literature which, in the wide sense, can be called Spanish divides itself into
three heads--Provençal-Catalan; Galician-Portuguese; and Castilian or Spanish proper. Not merely
Catalonia itself, but Aragon, Navarre, and even Valencia, were linguistically for centuries
mere outlying provinces of the langue d'oc. The political circumstances which attended the
dying-out of the Provençal school at home, for a time even encouraged the continuance of Provençal
literature in Spain: and to a certain extent Spanish and Provençal appear to have been written,
if not spoken, bilingually by the same authors. But for the general purpose of this book the
fact of the persistence of the "Limousin" tongue in Catalonia and (strongly dialected) in Valencia
having been once noted, not much further notice need be taken of this division.

[Sidenote: Galician-Portuguese.]

So also we may, with a brief distinctive notice, pass by the Galician dialects which found
their perfected literary form later in Portuguese. No important early literature remains in
Galician, and of Portuguese itself there does not seem to be anything certainly dating before
the fourteenth century, or anything even probably attributed to an earlier time except a certain
number of ballads, as to the real antiquity of which a sane literary criticism has always to
reiterate the deepest and most irremovable doubts. The fact of the existence of this dialect,
and of its development later into the language of Camoens, is of high interest: the positive
documents which at this time it offers for comment are very scanty indeed.

[Sidenote: Castilian.]

With Castilian--that is to say, Spanish proper--the case is very different. It cannot claim
any great antiquity: and as is the case with Italian, and to a less degree with French also,
the processes by which it came into existence out of Latin are hid from us to a degree surprising,
even when we remember the political and social welter in which Europe lay between the fifth
and the eleventh centuries. It is, of course, a most natural and constant consideration that
the formation of literary languages was delayed in the Romance-speaking countries by the fact
that everybody of any education at all had Latin ready to his hands. And the exceptional circumstances
of Spain, which, after hardly settling down under the Visigothic conquest, was whelmed afresh
by the Moorish invasion, have not been excessively insisted upon by the authorities who have
dealt with the subject. But still it cannot but strike us as peculiar that the document--the
famous Charter of Avilés,[194] which plays in the history of Spanish something like the same
part which the Eulalia hymn and the Strasburg Oaths play in French--dates only from the middle
of the twelfth century, more than three hundred years after the Strasburg interchange, and
at a time when French was not merely a regularly constituted language, but already had no inconsiderable
literature. It is true that the Avilés document is not quite so jargonish as the Strasburg,
but the same mark--the presence of undigested Latin--appears in both.

[Footnote 194: Extracts of this appear in Ticknor, Appendix A., iii. 352, note.]

It is, however, fair to remember that prose is almost invariably later than poetry, and that
official prose of all periods has a tendency to the barbarous. If the Avilés charter be genuine,
and of its assigned date, it does not follow that at the very same time poetry of a much less
uncouth character was not being composed in Spanish. And as a matter of fact we have, independently
of the ballads, the great Poema del Cid, which has sometimes been supposed to be of antiquity
equal to this, and which can hardly be more than some fifty years later.

[Sidenote: Ballads?]

As to the ballads, what has been said about those in Portuguese must be repeated at somewhat
greater length. There is no doubt at all that these ballads (which are well known even to English
readers by the masterly paraphrases of Lockhart) are among the finest of their kind. They rank
with, and perhaps above, the best of the Scottish poems of the same class. But we have practically,
it would seem, no earlier authority for them than the great Cancioneros of the sixteenth century.
It is, of course, said that the Cronica General (see post), which is three centuries earlier,
was in part compiled from these ballads. But, in the first place, we do not know that this
was the fact, or that the ballads were not compiled from the Chronicles, or from traditions
which the Chronicles embodied. And in the second place, if the Chronicles were compiled from
ballads, we do not know that these ballads, as pieces of finished literature and apart from
their subjects, were anything at all like the ballads that we possess. This last consideration--an
uncomfortable one, but one which the critic is bound to urge--at once disposes of, or reduces
to a minimum, the value of the much-vaunted testimony of a Latin poem, said to date before
the middle of the eleventh century, that "Roderic, called Mio Cid," was sung about. No doubt
he was; and no doubt, as the expression Mio Cid is not a translation from the Arabic, but a
quite evidently genuine vernacularity, he was sung of in those terms. But the testimony leaves
us as much in doubt as ever about the age of the existing Cid ballads. And if this be the case
about the Cid ballads, the subject of which did not die till hard upon the opening of the twelfth
century itself, or about those concerning the Infantes of Lara, how much more must it be so
with those that deal with such subjects as Bernardo del Carpio and the Charlemagne invasion,
three hundred years earlier, when it is tolerably certain that there was nothing at all resembling
what we now call Spanish? It seems sometimes to be thought that the antiquity of the subject
of a ballad comports in some strange fashion the antiquity of the ballad itself; than which
nothing can be much more disputable. Indeed the very metre of the ballads themselves--which,
though simple, is by no means of a very primitive character, and represents the "rubbing down"
of popular dialect and unscholarly prosody for a long time against the regular structure of
Latin--disproves the extreme earliness of the poems in anything like their present form. The
comparatively uncouth, though not lawless metres of early Teutonic poetry are in themselves
warrants of their antiquity: the regularity, not strait-laced but unmistakable, of the Spanish
ballads is at least a strong suggestion that they are not very early.

[Sidenote: The Poema del Cid.]

At any rate there is no sort of proof that they are early; and in this history it has been
made a rule to demand proof, or at least the very strongest probability. If there be any force
in the argument at the end of the last paragraph, it tells (unless, indeed, the latest critical
hypothesis be adopted, of which more presently) as much in favour of the antiquity of the Poema
del Cid as it tells against that of the ballads. This piece, which has come down to us in a
mutilated condition, though it does not seem likely that its present length (3744 lines) has
been very greatly affected by the mutilations, has been regarded as dating not earlier than
the middle of the twelfth or later than the middle of the thirteenth century--that is to say,
in the first case, within a lifetime of the events it professes to deal with; in the second,
at scarcely more than two lifetimes from them. The historical personality of Ruy Diaz de Bivar,
el Cid Campeador (?1040-1099), does not concern us, though it is perfectly well established
in general by the testimony of his enemies, as well as by that of his countrymen, and is indeed
almost unique in history as that of a national hero at once of history and of romance. The
Roderic who regained what a Roderic had lost may have been--must have been, indeed--presented
with many facts and achievements which he never performed, and there may be no small admixture
of these in the Poema itself; but that does not matter at all to literature. It would not,
strictly speaking, matter to literature if he had never existed. But not every one can live
up to this severe standard in things literary; and it is undoubtedly a comfort to the natural
man to know that the Cid certainly did exist, and that, to all but certainty, his blood runs
in the veins of the Queen of England and of the Emperor of Austria, not to mention the King
of Spain, to-day.

[Sidenote: A Spanish chanson de geste.]

But in the criticism of his poetical history this is in strictness irrelevant. It is unlucky
for that criticism that Southey and Ticknor--the two best critics, not merely in English but
in any language, who have dealt with Spanish literature--were quite unacquainted with the French
chansons de geste; while of late, discussion of the Poema, as of other early Spanish literature,
has been chiefly abandoned to philologists. No one familiar with these chansons (the greatest
and oldest of which, the Chanson de Roland, was to all but a certainty in existence when Ruy
Diaz was in his cradle, and a hundred years before the Poema was written) can fail to see in
a moment that this latter is itself a chanson de geste. It was written much nearer to the facts
than any one of its French analogues, except those of the Crusading cycle, and it therefore
had at least the chance of sticking much closer to those facts. Nor is there much doubt that
it does. We may give up as many as we please of its details; we may even, if, not pleasing,
we choose to obey the historians, give up that famous and delightful episode of the Counts
of Carrion, which indeed is not so much an episode as the main subject of the greater part
of the poem. But--partly because of its nearness to the subject, partly because of the more
intense national belief in the hero, most of all, perhaps, because the countrymen of Cervantes
already possessed that faculty of individual, not merely of typical, characterisation which
has been, as a rule, denied to the countrymen of Corneille--the poem is far more alive than
the not less heroic histories of Roncesvaux or of Aliscans. Even in the Nibelungenlied, to
which it has been so often compared, the men (not the women--there the Teutonic genius bears
its usual bell) are, with the exception, perhaps, of Hagen, shadowy, compared not merely to
Rodrigo himself, but to Bermuez and Muño Gustioz, to Asur Gonzalez and Minaya.

[Sidenote: In scheme and spirit.]

Still the chanson stamp is unmistakably on it from the very beginning, where the Cid, like
three-fourths of the chanson heroes themselves, has experienced royal ingratitude, through
the vaunts and the fighting, and the stock phrases (abaxan las lanzas following abrazan los
escudos, and the like), to that second marriage connecting the Cid afresh with royalty, which
is almost as common in the chansons as the initial ingratitude. It would be altogether astonishing
if the chansons had not made their way, when French literature was making it everywhere, into
the country nearest to France. In face of the Poema del Cid, it is quite certain that they
had done so, and that here as elsewhere French literature performed its vigorous, and in a
way self-sacrificing, function of teaching other nations to do better than their teacher.

[Sidenote: Difficulties of its prosody.]

When we pass from comparisons of general scheme and spirit to those of metrical form, the matter
presents greater puzzles. As observed above, the earliest French chansons known to us are written
in a strict syllabic metre, with a regular cæsura, and arranged in distinct though not uniformly
long laisses, each tipped with an identical assonance. Further, it so happens that this very
assonance is one of the best known characteristics of Spanish poetry, which is the only body
of verse except old French to show it in any great volume or variety. The Spanish ballads are
uniformly written in trochaic octosyllables (capable of reduction or extension to six, seven,
or nine), regularly assonanced in the second and fourth line, but not necessarily showing either
rhyme or assonance in the first and third. This measure became so popular that the great dramatists
adopted it, and as it thus figures in the two most excellent productions of the literature,
ballad and drama, it has become practically identified in the general mind with Spanish poetry,
and not so very long ago might have been described by persons, not exactly ignorant, as peculiar
to it.

[Sidenote: Ballad-metre theory.]

But when we turn to the Poema del Cid we find nothing like this. It is true that its latest
and most learned student, Professor Cornu of Prague,[195] has, I believe, persuaded himself
that he has discovered the basis of its metre to be the ballad octosyllables, full or catalectic,
arranged as hemistichs of a longer line, and that he has been able to point out some hundreds
of tolerably perfect verses of the kind. But this hypothesis necessitates our granting that
it was possible for the copyists, or the line of copyists, of the unique MS. in the vast majority
of cases to mistake a measure so simple, so universally natural, and, as history shows, so
peculiarly grateful to the Spanish ear, and to change it into something quite different.

