THE REIGN OF ANDREW JACKSON

A Chronicle of the Frontier in Politics

By

FREDERIC AUSTIN OGG

1919

CONTENTS

   I. JACKSON THE FRONTIERSMAN

  II. THE CREEK WAR AND THE VICTORY OF NEW ORLEANS

 III. THE "CONQUEST" OF FLORIDA

  IV. THE DEATH OF "KING CAUCUS"

   V. THE DEMOCRATIC TRIUMPH

  VI. THE "REIGN" BEGINS

 VII. THE WEBSTER-HAYNE DEBATE

VIII. TARIFF AND NULLIFICATION

  IX. THE WAR ON THE UNITED STATES BANK

   X. THE REMOVAL OF THE SOUTHERN INDIANS

  XI. THE JACKSONIAN SUCCESSION

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

INDEX

CHAPTER I

JACKSON THE FRONTIERSMAN

Among the thousands of stout-hearted British subjects who decided to try their fortune in the
Western World after the signing of the Peace of Paris in 1763 was one Andrew Jackson, a Scotch-Irish
Presbyterian of the tenant class, sprung from a family long resident in or near the quaint
town of Carrickfergus, on the northern coast of Ireland, close by the newer and more progressive
city of Belfast.

With Jackson went his wife and two infant sons, a brother-in-law, and two neighbors with their
families, who thus made up a typical eighteenth-century emigrant group. Arrived at Charleston,
the travelers fitted themselves out for an overland journey, awaited a stretch of favorable
weather, and set off for the Waxhaw settlement, one hundred and eighty miles to the northwest,
where numbers of their kinsmen and countrymen were already established. There the Jacksons
were received with open arms by the family of a second brother-in-law, who had migrated a few
years earlier and who now had a comfortable log house and a good-sized clearing.

The settlement lay on the banks of the upper Catawba, near the junction of that stream with
Waxhaw Creek; and as it occupied a fertile oasis in a vast waste of pine woods, it was for
decades largely cut off from touch with the outside world. The settlement was situated, too,
partly in North Carolina and partly in South Carolina, so that in the pre-Revolutionary days
many of the inhabitants hardly knew, or cared to know, in which of the two provinces they dwelt.

Upon their arrival Jackson's friends bought land on the creek and within the bounds of the
settlement. Jackson himself was too poor, however, to do this, and accordingly took up a claim
six miles distant on another little stream known as Twelve-mile Creek. Here, in the fall of
1765, he built a small cabin, and during the winter he cleared five or six acres of ground.
The next year he was able to raise enough corn, vegetables, and pork to keep his little household
from want. The tract thus occupied cannot be positively identified, but it lay in what is now
Union County, North Carolina, a few miles from Monroe, the county seat.

Then came tragedy of a sort in which frontier history abounds. In the midst of his efforts
to hew out a home and a future for those who were dear to him the father sickened and died,
in March, 1767, at the early age of twenty-nine, less than two years after his arrival at the
settlement. Tradition says that his death was the result of a rupture suffered in attempting
to move a heavy log, and that it was so sudden that the distracted wife had no opportunity
to seek aid from the distant neighbors. When at last the news got abroad, sympathy and assistance
were lavished in true frontier fashion. Borne in a rude farm wagon, the remains were taken
to the Waxhaw burying ground and were interred in a spot which tradition, but tradition only,
is able today to point out.

The widow never returned to the desolated homestead. She and her little ones were taken into
the family of one of her married sisters, where she spent her few remaining years. On the 15th
of March, less than two weeks after her husband's death, she gave birth to a third son; and
the child was promptly christened Andrew, in memory of the parent he would never know.

Curiously, the seventh President's birthplace has been a matter of sharp controversy. There
is a tradition that the birth occurred while the mother was visiting a neighboring family by
the name of McKemy; and Parton, one of Jackson's principal biographers, adduces a good deal
of evidence in support of the story. On the other hand, Jackson always believed that he was
born in the home of the aunt with whom his bereaved mother took up her residence; and several
biographers, including Bassett, the most recent and the best, accept this contention. It really
matters not at all, save for the circumstance that if the one view is correct Jackson was born
in North Carolina, while if the other is correct he was born in South Carolina. Both States
have persistently claimed the honor. In the famous proclamation which he addressed to the South
Carolina nullifiers in 1832 Jackson referred to them as "fellow-citizens of my native state";
in his will he spoke of himself as a South Carolinian; and in correspondence and conversation
he repeatedly declared that he was born on South Carolina soil. Jackson was far from infallible,
even in matters closely touching his own career. But the preponderance of evidence on the point
lies decidedly with South Carolina.

No one, at all events, can deny to the Waxhaw settlement an honored place in American history.
There the father of John C. Calhoun first made his home. There the Revolutionary general, Andrew
Pickens, met and married Rebecca Calhoun. There grew up the eminent North Carolinian Governor
and diplomat, William R. Davie. There William H. Crawford lived as a boy. And there Jackson
dwelt until early manhood.

For the times, young Andrew was well brought up. His mother was a woman of strong character,
who cherished for her last-born the desire that he should become a Presbyterian clergyman.
The uncle with whom he lived was a serious-minded man who by his industry had won means ample
for the comfortable subsistence of his enlarged household. When he was old enough, the boy
worked for his living, but no harder than the frontier boys of that day usually worked; and
while his advantages were only such as a backwoods community afforded, they were at least as
great as those of most boys similarly situated, and they were far superior to those of the
youthful Lincoln. Jackson's earlier years, nevertheless, contained little promise of his future
distinction. He grew up amidst a rough people whose tastes ran strongly to horse-racing, cockfighting,
and heavy drinking, and whose ideal of excellence found expression in a readiness to fight
upon any and all occasions in defense of what they considered to be their personal honor. In
young Andrew Jackson these characteristics appeared in a superlative degree. He was mischievous,
willful, daring, reckless. Hardly an escapade took place in the community in which he did not
share; and his sensitiveness and quick temper led him continually into trouble. In his early
teens he swore like a trooper, chewed tobacco incessantly, acquired a taste for strong drink,
and set a pace for wildness which few of his associates could keep up. He was passionately
fond of running foot races, leaping the bar, jumping, wrestling, and every sort of sport that
partook of the character of mimic battle--and he never acknowledged defeat. "I could throw
him three times out of four," testifies an old schoolmate, "but he would never stay throwed.
He was dead game even then, and never would give up." Another early companion says that of
all the boys he had known Jackson was the only bully who was not also a coward.

Of education the boy received only such as was put unavoidably in his way. It is said that
his mother taught him to read before he was five years old; and he attended several terms in
the little low-roofed log schoolhouse in the Waxhaw settlement. But his formal instruction
never took him beyond the fundamentals of reading, writing, geography, grammar, and "casting
accounts." He was neither studious nor teachable. As a boy he preferred sport to study, and
as a man he chose to rely on his own fertile ideas rather than to accept guidance from others.
He never learned to write the English language correctly, although he often wrote it eloquently
and convincingly. In an age of bad spellers he achieved distinction from the number of ways
in which he could spell a word within the space of a single page. He could use no foreign languages;
and of the great body of science, literature, history, and the arts he knew next to nothing.
He never acquired a taste for books, although vanity prompted him to treasure throughout his
public career all correspondence and other documentary materials that might be of use to future
biographers. Indeed, he picked as a biographer first his military aide, John Reid, and later
his close friend, John H. Eaton, whom he had the satisfaction in 1829 of appointing Secretary
of War.

When the Revolution came, young Andrew was a boy of ten. For a time the Carolina backwoods
did not greatly feel the effect of the change. But in the spring of 1780 all of the revolutionary
troops in South Carolina were captured at Charleston, and the lands from the sea to the mountains
were left at the mercy of Tarleton's and Rawdon's bands of redcoats and their Tory supporters.
Twice the Waxhaw settlement was ravaged before the patriots could make a stand. Young Jackson
witnessed two battles in 1780, without taking part in them, and in the following year he, a
brother, and a cousin were taken prisoners in a skirmish. To the day of his death Jackson bore
on his head and hand the marks of a saber blow administered by a British lieutenant whose jack
boots he refused to polish. When an exchange of prisoners was made, Mrs. Jackson secured the
release of her two boys, but not until after they had contracted smallpox in Camden jail. The
older one died, but the younger, though reduced to a skeleton, survived. Already the third
brother had given up his life in battle; and the crowning disaster came when the mother, going
as a volunteer to nurse the wounded Waxhaw prisoners on the British vessels in Charleston harbor,
fell ill of yellow fever and perished. Small wonder that Andrew Jackson always hated the British
uniform, or that when he sat in the executive chair an anti-British feeling colored all of
his dealings with foreign nations!

At the age of fourteen, the sandy-haired, pockmarked lad of the Waxhaws found himself alone
in the world. The death of his relatives had made him heir to a portion of his grandfather's
estate in Carrickfergus; but the property was tied up in the hands of an administrator, and
the boy was in effect both penniless and homeless. The memory of his mother and her teachings
was, as he was subsequently accustomed to say, the only capital with which he started life.
To a natural waywardness and quarrelsomeness had been added a heritage of bitter memories,
and the outlook was not bright.

Upon one thing the youth was determined: he would no longer be a charge upon his uncle or upon
any one else. What to turn to, however, was not so easy to decide. First he tried the saddler's
trade, but that was too monotonous. Then he undertook school-teaching; that proved little better.
Desirous of a glimpse of the world, he went to Charleston in the autumn of 1782. There he made
the acquaintance of some people of wealth and fell into habits of life which were beyond his
means. At the race track he bet and swaggered himself into notice; and when he ran into debt
he was lucky enough to free himself by winning a large wager. But the proceeds of his little
inheritance, which had in the meantime become available, were now entirely used up; and when
in the spring the young spendthrift went back to the Waxhaws, he had only a fine horse with
elegant equipment, a costly pair of pistols, a gold watch, and a fair wardrobe--in addition
to some familiarity with the usages of fashion--to show for his spent "fortune."

One other thing which Jackson may have carried back with him from Charleston was an ambition
to become a lawyer. At all events, in the fall of 1784 he entered the law office of a certain
Spruce Macay in the town of Salisbury, North Carolina; and, after three years of intermittent
study, he was admitted to practice in the courts of the State. The instruction which he had
received was not of a high order, and all accounts agree that the young man took his tasks
lightly and that he learned but little law. That he fully sustained the reputation which he
had gained in the Waxhaws is indicated by testimony of one of Macay's fellow townsmen, after
Jackson had become famous, to the effect that the former student had been "the most roaring,
rollicking, game-cocking, card-playing, mischievous fellow that ever lived in Salisbury."

Upon his admission to the bar the irresponsible young blade hung out his shingle in Martinsville,
Guilford County, North Carolina, and sat down to wait for clients. He was still less than twenty
years old, without influence, and with only such friends as his irascible disposition permitted
him to make and hold. Naturally business came slowly, and it became necessary to eke out a
living by serving as a local constable and also by assisting in a mercantile enterprise carried
on by two acquaintances in the town. After a year this hand-to-mouth existence began to pall.
Neither then nor in later life did Jackson have any real taste or aptitude for law. He was
not of a legal turn of mind, and he was wholly unprepared to suffer the sacrifices and disappointments
which a man of different disposition would have been willing to undergo in order to win for
himself an established position in his profession. Chagrin in this restless young man was fast
yielding to despair when an alluring field of action opened for him in the fast-developing
country beyond the mountains.

The settlement of white men in that part of North Carolina which lay west of the Alleghanies
had begun a year or two after Jackson's birth. At first the hardy pioneers found lodgment on
the Watauga, Holston, Nolichucky, and other streams to the east of modern Knoxville. But in
1779 a colony was planted by James Robertson and John Donelson on the banks of the Cumberland,
two hundred miles farther west, and in a brief time the remoter settlement, known as Nashville,
became a Mecca for homeseeking Carolinians and Virginians. The intervening hill and forest
country abounded in hostile Indians. The settler or trader who undertook to traverse this region
took his life in his hands, and the settlements themselves were subject to perennial attack.

In 1788, after the collapse of an attempt of the people of the "Western District" to set up
an independent State by the name of Franklin, the North Carolina Assembly erected the three
counties included in the Cumberland settlement into a superior court district; and the person
selected for judge was a close friend of Jackson, John McNairy, who also had been a law pupil
of Spruce Macay in Salisbury. McNairy had been in the Tennessee region two years, but at the
time of receiving his judicial appointment he was visiting friends in the Carolinas. His description
of the opportunities awaiting ambitious young men in the back country influenced a half-dozen
acquaintances, lawyers and others, to make the return trip with him; and among the number was
Jackson. Some went to assume posts which were at McNairy's disposal, but Jackson went only
to see the country.

Assembling at Morganton, on the east side of the mountains, in the fall of 1788, the party
proceeded leisurely to Jonesboro, which, although as yet only a village of fifty or sixty log
houses, was the metropolis of the eastern Tennessee settlements. There the party was obliged
to wait for a sufficient band of immigrants to assemble before they could be led by an armed
guard with some degree of safety through the dangerous middle country. As a highway had just
been opened between Jonesboro and Nashville, the travelers were able to cover the distance
in fifteen days. Jackson rode a fine stallion, while a pack mare carried his worldly effects,
consisting of spare clothes, blankets, half a dozen law books, and small quantities of ammunition,
tea, tobacco, liquor, and salt. For defense he bore a rifle and three pistols; and in his pocket
he carried one hundred and eighty dollars of the much valued hard money. On the second day
of November the emigrant train made its appearance in Nashville bringing news of much interest--in
particular, that the Federal Constitution had been ratified by the ninth State, and that the
various legislatures were preparing to choose electors, who would undoubtedly make George Washington
the first President of the Republic.

Less than ten years old, Nashville had now a population of not over two hundred. But it was
the center of a somewhat settled district extending up and down the Cumberland for a distance
of eighty or ninety miles, and the young visitor from the Waxhaws quickly found it a promising
field for his talents. There was only one lawyer in the place, and creditors who had been outbid
for his services by their debtors were glad to put their cases in the hands of the newcomer.
It is said that before Jackson had been in the settlement a month he had issued more than seventy
writs to delinquent debtors. When, in 1789, he was appointed "solicitor," or prosecutor, in
Judge McNairy's jurisdiction with a salary of forty pounds for each court he attended, his
fortune seemed made and he forthwith gave up all thought of returning to his Carolina home.
Instead he took lodgings under the roof of the widow of John Donelson, and in 1791 he married
a daughter of that doughty frontiersman. Land was still cheap, and with the proceeds of his
fees and salary he purchased a large plantation called Hunter's Hill, thirteen miles from Nashville,
and there he planned to establish a home which would take rank as one of the finest in the
western country.

The work of a frontier solicitor was diverse and arduous. A turbulent society needed to be
kept in order and the business obligations of a shifty and quarrelsome people to be enforced.
No great knowledge of law was required, but personal fearlessness, vigor, and incorruptibility
were indispensable. Jackson was just the man for the business. His physical courage was equaled
by his moral strength; he was passionately devoted to justice; he was diligent and conscientious;
and, as one writer has remarked, bad grammar, incorrect pronunciation, and violent denunciation
did not shock the judges of that day or divert the mind of juries from the truth. Traveling
almost constantly over the wretched roads and through the dark forests, dodging Indians, swimming
his horse across torrential streams, sleeping alone in the woods with hand on rifle, threatened
by desperate wrongdoers, Andrew Jackson became the best-known figure in all western Tennessee
and won at this time a great measure of that public confidence which later became his chief
political asset.

Meanwhile the rapid growth of population south of the Ohio River made necessary new arrangements
for purposes of government. In 1790 the region between the Ohio and the present States of Alabama
and Mississippi, having been turned over to the Nation by its earlier possessors, was erected
into the "Southwest Territory," and in 1791 the northern half became the State of Kentucky.
In 1793 the remainder of the Territory set up a Legislature, and three years later delegates
from the eleven counties met at Knoxville to draw up a new frame of government with a view
to admission to statehood. Jackson was a member of this convention, and tradition has it that
it was he who brought about the selection of the name Tennessee, an Indian term meaning "The
Great Crooked River," as against Franklin, Washington, and other proposed designations for
the new State. At all events, upon the admission of the State in 1796, he was chosen as its
sole representative in the lower branch of Congress.

In the late autumn of that year the young lawmaker set out for the national capital at Philadelphia,
and there he arrived, after a journey of almost eight hundred miles on horseback, just as the
triumphs of the Democrats in the recent presidential election were being duly celebrated. He
had not been chosen as a party man, but it is altogether probable that his own sympathies and
those of most of his constituents lay with the Jeffersonians; and his appearance on the floor
of Congress was an omen of the fast-rising tide of western democracy which should never find
its ultimate goal until this rough but honest Tennesseean should himself be borne into the
presidential chair.

Jackson's career in Congress was brief and uneventful. After a year of service in the House
of Representatives he was appointed to fill the unexpired term of William Blount in the Senate.
But this post he resigned in 1798 in order to devote his energies to his private affairs. While
at Philadelphia he made the acquaintance not only of John Adams, Jefferson, Randolph, Gallatin,
and Burr, but of his future Secretary of State, Edward Livingston, and of some other persons
who were destined to be closely connected with his later career. But Jackson was not fitted
for a legislative body either by training or by temperament. He is recorded as speaking in
the House only twice and in the Senate not at all, and he seems to have made no considerable
impression upon his colleagues.

Return to Tennessee meant, however, only a transfer from one branch of the public service to
another, for the ex-Senator was promptly appointed to a judgeship of the state supreme court
at a salary of six hundred dollars a year. The position he found not uncongenial and he retained
it for six years. Now, as earlier, Jackson's ignorance of law was somewhat compensated by his
common sense, courage, and impartiality; and while only one of his decisions of this period
is extant, Parton reports that the tradition of fifty years ago represented them as short,
untechnical, unlearned, sometimes ungrammatical, but generally right. The daily life of Jackson
as a frontier judge was hardly less active and exciting than it had been when he was a prosecuting
attorney. There were long and arduous horseback journeys "on circuit"; ill-tempered persons
often threatened, and sometimes attempted, to deal roughly with the author of an unfavorable
decision; occasionally it was necessary to lay aside his dignity long enough to lend a hand
in capturing or controlling a desperate character. For example, on arriving once in a settlement
Jackson found that a powerful blacksmith had committed a crime and that the sheriff dared not
arrest him. "Summon me," said the judge; whereupon he walked down from the bench, found the
culprit, led him into court, and sentenced him.

In 1804 Jackson resigned his judgeship in order to give exclusive attention again to his private
affairs. He had fallen badly into debt, and his creditors were pressing him hard. One expedient
after another failed, and finally Hunter's Hill had to be given up. He saved enough from the
wreck, however, to purchase a small plantation eight miles from Nashville; and there, after
several years of financial rehabilitation, he erected the handsome brick house which the country
came subsequently to know as "The Hermitage." In partnership with two of his wife's relatives,
Jackson had opened a store in which, even while still a member of the highest tribunal of the
State, he not infrequently passed tea and salt and calico over the counter to his neighbors.
In small trading, however, he was not adept, and the store failed. Nevertheless, from 1804
until 1813 he successfully combined with planting and the stock-raising business enterprises
of a larger sort, especially slave and horse dealing. His debts paid off, he now became one
of the most prosperous, as he already was one of the most influential, men of the Cumberland
country.

But it was not given to Andrew Jackson to be a mere money-maker or to dwell in quietness. In
1804 he was denied the governorship of the New Orleans Territory because he was described to
Jefferson as "a man of violent passions, arbitrary in his disposition, and frequently engaged
in broils and disputes." During the next decade he fully lived up to this description. He quarreled
with Governor John Sevier, and only the intervention of friends prevented the two from doing
each other violence. He broke off friendly relations with his old patron, Judge McNairy. In
a duel he killed Charles Dickinson, who had spoken disparagingly of Mrs. Jackson, and he himself
suffered a wound which weakened him for life. He publicly caned one Thomas Swann. In a rough-and-tumble
encounter with Thomas Hart Benton and the latter's brother Jesse he was shot in the shoulder
and one of his antagonists was stabbed. This list of quarrels, threats, fights, and other violent
outbursts could be extended to an amazing length. "Yes, I had a fight with Jackson," Senator
Benton admitted late in life; "a fellow was hardly in the fashion then who hadn't."

At the age of forty-five Jackson had not yet found himself. He was known in his own State as
"a successful planter, a breeder and racer of horses, a swearer of mighty oaths, a faithful
ami generous man to his friends, a chivalrous man to women, a hospitable man at his home, a
desperate and relentless man in personal conflicts, a man who always did the things he set
himself to do." But he had achieved no nation-wide distinction; he had not wrought out a career;
he had made almost as many enemies as friends, he had cut himself off from official connections;
he had no desire to return to the legal profession; and he was so dissatisfied with his lot
and outlook that he seriously considered moving to Mississippi in order to make a fresh start.

One thread, however, still bound him to the public service. From 1802 he had been major general
of militia in the eleven counties of western Tennessee; and notwithstanding the fact that three
calls from the Government during a decade had yielded no real opportunity for action, he clung
both to the office and to the hope for a chance to lead his "hardy sons of the West" against
a foe worthy of their efforts. This chance came sooner than people expected, and it led in
precisely the direction that Jackson would have chosen--toward the turbulent, misgoverned Spanish
dependency of Florida.

CHAPTER II

THE CREEK WAR AND THE VICTORY OF NEW ORLEANS

Every schoolboy knows and loves the story of the midnight ride of Paul Revere. But hardly anybody
has heard of the twenty-day, fifteen-hundred-mile ride of "Billy" Phillips, the President's
express courier, who in 1812 carried to the Southwest the news that the people of the United
States had entered upon a second war with their British kinsmen. William Phillips was a young,
lithe Tennesseean whom Senator Campbell took to Washington in 1811 as secretary. When not more
than sixteen years old he had enjoyed the honor of riding Andrew Jackson's famous steed, Truxton,
in a heat race, for the largest purse ever heard of west of the mountains, with the proud owner
on one side of the stakes. In Washington he occasionally turned an honest penny by jockey-riding
in the races on the old track of Bladensburg, and eventually he became one of a squad of ten
or twelve expert horsemen employed by the Government in carrying urgent long-distance messages.

After much hesitation, Congress passed a joint resolution at about five o'clock on Friday,
June 18, 1812, declaring war against Great Britain. Before sundown the express couriers were
dashing swiftly on their several courses, some toward reluctant New England, some toward Pennsylvania
and New York, some southward, some westward. To Phillips it fell to carry the momentous news
to his own Tennessee country and thence down the Mississippi to New Orleans. That the task
was undertaken with all due energy is sufficiently attested in a letter written by a Baptist
clergyman at Lexington, North Carolina, to a friend, who happened to have been one of Jackson's
old teachers at the Waxhaws. "I have to inform you," runs the communication, "that just now
the President's express-rider, Bill Phillips, has tore through this little place without stopping.
He came and went in a cloud of dust, his horse's tail and his own long hair streaming alike
in the wind as they flew by. But as he passed the tavern stand where some were gathered he
swung his leather wallet by its straps above his head and shouted--'Here's the Stuff! Wake
up! War! War with England!! War!!!' Then he disappeared in a cloud of dust down the Salisbury
Road like a streak of Greased Lightnin'." Nine days brought the indefatigable courier past
Hillsboro, Salisbury, Morganton, Jonesboro, and Knoxville to Nashville--a daily average of
ninety-five miles over mountains and through uncleared country. In eleven days more the President's
dispatches were in the hands of Governor Claiborne at New Orleans.

The joy of the West was unbounded. The frontiersman was always ready for a fight, and just
now he especially wanted a fight with England. He resented the insults that his country had
suffered at the hands of the English authorities and had little patience with the vacillating
policy so long pursued by Congress and the Madison Administration. Other grievances came closer
home. For two years the West had been disturbed by Indian wars and intrigues for which the
English officers and agents in Canada were held largely responsible. In 1811 Governor Harrison
of Indiana Territory defeated the Indians at Tippecanoe. But Tecumseh was even then working
among the Creeks, Cherokees, and other southern tribes with a view to a confederation which
should be powerful enough to put a stop to the sale of land to the advancing white population.
A renewal of the disorders was therefore momentarily expected. Furthermore, the people of the
Southwest were as usual on bad terms with their Spanish neighbors in Florida and Texas; they
coveted an opportunity for vengeance for wrongs which they had suffered; and some longed for
the conquest of Spanish territory. At all events, war with England was the more welcome because
Spain, as an ally of that power, was likely to be involved.

Nowhere was the news received with greater enthusiasm than at Nashville; and by no one with
more satisfaction than by Andrew Jackson. As major general of militia Jackson had for ten years
awaited just such a chance for action. In 1811 he wrote fervently to Harrison offering to come
to his assistance in the Wabash expedition with five hundred West Tennesseeans, but his services
were not needed. At the close of the year he induced the Governor of his State, William Blount,
to inform the War Department that he could have twenty-five hundred men "before Quebec within
ninety days" if desired. Again he was refused. But now his opportunity had come. Billy Phillips
was hardly on his way to Natchez before Jackson, Blount, and Benton were addressing a mass
meeting called to "ratify" the declaration of war, and on the following day a courier started
for Washington with a letter from Jackson tendering the services of twenty-five hundred Tennesseeans
and assuring the President, with better patriotism than syntax, that wherever it might please
him to find a place of duty for these men he could depend upon them to stay "till they or the
last armed foe expires."

After some delay the offer was accepted. Already the fiery major general was dreaming of a
conquest of Florida. "You burn with anxiety," ran a proclamation issued to his division in
midsummer, "to learn on what theater your arms will find employment. Then turn your eyes to
the South! Behold in the province of West Florida a territory whose rivers and harbors are
indispensable to the prosperity of the western, and still more so, to the eastern division
of our state.... It is here that an employment adapted to your situation awaits your courage
and your zeal, and while extending in this quarter the boundaries of the Republic to the Gulf
of Mexico, you will experience a peculiar satisfaction in having conferred a signal benefit
on that section of the Union to which you yourselves immediately belong."

It lay in the cards that Jackson was to be a principal agent in wresting the Florida, country
from the Spaniards; and while there was at Washington no intention of allowing him to set off
post-haste upon the mission, all of the services which he was called upon to render during
the war converged directly upon that objective. After what seemed an interminable period of
waiting came the first order to move. Fifteen hundred Tennessee troops were to go to New Orleans,
ostensibly to protect the city against a possible British attack, but mainly to be quickly
available in case an invasion of West Florida should be decided upon: and Jackson, freshly
commissioned major general of volunteers, was to lead the expedition.

The rendezvous was fixed at Nashville for early December; and when more than two thousand men,
representing almost every family of influence in the western half of the State, presented themselves,
Governor Blount authorized the whole number to be mustered. On the 7th of January the hastily
equipped detachment started, fourteen hundred infantrymen going down the ice-clogged Cumberland
in flatboats and six hundred and seventy mounted riflemen proceeding by land. The Governor
sent a letter carrying his blessing. Jackson responded with an effusive note in which he expressed
the hope that "the God of battles may be with us." Parton says with truth that the heart of
western Tennessee went down the river with the expedition. In a letter to the Secretary of
War Jackson declared that his men had no "constitutional scruples," but would, if so ordered,
plant the American eagle on the "walls" of Mobile, Pensacola, and St. Augustine.

After five weeks the troops, in high spirits, reassembled at Natchez. Then came cruel disappointment.
From New Orleans Governor James Wilkinson, doubtless moved by hatred of Jackson quite as much
as by considerations of public policy, ordered the little army to stay where it was. And on
the 15th of March there was placed in the commander's hands a curt note from the Secretary
of War saying that the reasons for the undertaking had disappeared, and announcing that the
corps under the Tennesseean's command had "ceased to exist."

Jackson flew into a rage--and with more reason than on certain other occasions. He was sure
that there was treachery somewhere; at the least, it was all a trick to bring a couple of thousand
good Tennessee volunteers within the clutches of Wilkinson's recruiting officers. He managed
to write to the President a temperate letter of protest; but to Governor Blount and to the
troops he unbosomed himself with characteristic forcefulness of speech. There was nothing to
do but return home. But the irate commander determined to do it in a manner to impress the
country. He kept his force intact, drew rations from the commissary department at Natchez,
and marched back to Nashville with all the éclat that would have attended a returning conqueror.
When Wilkinson's subordinates refused to pay the cost of transporting the sick, Jackson pledged
his own credit for the purpose, to the amount of twelve thousand dollars. It was on the trying
return march that his riflemen conferred on him the happy nickname "Old Hickory."

The Secretary of War later sought to appease the irascible major general by offering a wholly
plausible explanation of the sudden reversal of the Government's policy; and the expenses of
the troops on the return march were fully met out of the national treasury. But Jackson drew
from the experience only gall and wormwood. About the time when the men reached Natchez, Congress
definitely authorized the President to take possession of Mobile and that part of Florida west
of the Perdido River; and, back once more in the humdrum life of Nashville, the disappointed
officer could only sit idly by while his pet project was successfully carried out by General
Wilkinson, the man whom, perhaps above all others, he loathed. But other work was preparing;
and, after all, most of Florida was yet to be won.

In the late summer of 1813 the western country was startled by news of a sudden attack of a
band of upwards of a thousand Creeks on Fort Minis, Alabama, culminating in a massacre in which
two hundred and fifty white men, women, and children lost their lives. It was the most bloody
occurrence of the kind in several decades, and it brought instantly to a head a situation which
Jackson, in common with many other military men, had long viewed with apprehension.

From time immemorial the broad stretches of hill and valley land southwards from the winding
Tennessee to the Gulf were occupied, or used as hunting grounds, by the warlike tribes forming
the loose-knit Creek Confederacy. Much of this land was extremely fertile, and most of it required
little labor to prepare it for cultivation. Consequently after 1800 the influx of white settlers,
mainly cotton raisers, was heavy; and by 1812 the great triangular area between the Alabama
and the Tombigbee, as well as extensive tracts along the upper Tombigbee and the Mobile, was
quite fully occupied. The heart of the Creek country was the region about the Coosa and Tallapoosa
rivers, which join in central Alabama to form the stream which bears the State's name. But
not even this district was immune from encroachment.

The Creeks were not of a sort to submit to the loss of their lands without a struggle. Though
Tecumseh, in 1811, had brought them to the point of an uprising, his plans were not carried
out, and it remained for the news of hostilities between the United States and Great Britain
to rouse the war spirit afresh. In a short time the entire Creek country was aflame. Arms and
ammunition the Indians obtained from the Spaniards across the Florida border, and Colonel Edward
Nicholls, now stationed at Pensacola as provisional British Governor, gave them open encouragement.
The danger was understood not only among the people of the Southwest but in Washington. Before
plans of defense could be carried into effect, however, the war broke out, and the wretched
people who had crowded into the flimsy stockade called by courtesy Fort Mims were massacred.

Hardly had the heap of ruins, ghastly with human bodies, ceased to smolder before fleet riders
were spreading the news in Georgia, in Louisiana, and in Tennessee. A shudder swept the country.
Every exposed community expected to be attacked next. The people's demand for vengeance was
overmastering, and from north, west, and east volunteer armies were soon on the march. Tennessee
sent two quotas, one from the eastern counties under General John Cocke, the other from the
western under Andrew Jackson. When the news of the disaster on the Mobile reached Nashville,
Jackson was lying helpless from wounds received in his fight with the Bentons. But he issued
the necessary orders from his bed and let it be known with customary vigor that he, the senior
major general, and no one else, would lead the expedition; and though three weeks later he
started off with his arm tightly bandaged to his side and a shoulder so sore that it could
not bear the pressure of an epaulette, lead the expedition he did.

About the middle of October the emaciated but, dogged commander brought his forces together,
2700 strong, at Huntsville and began cutting his way across the mountains toward the principal
Creek settlements. His plan was to fall suddenly upon these settlements, strike terror into
the inhabitants, and force a peace on terms that would guarantee the safety of the frontier
populations. Supplies were slow to arrive, and Jackson fumed and stormed. He quarreled desperately,
too, with Cocke, whom he unjustly blamed for mismanagement. But at last he was able to emerge
on the banks of the Coosa and build a stockade, Fort Strother, to serve as a base for the campaign.

During the months that followed, the intrepid leader was compelled to fight two foes--his insubordinate
militiamen and the Creeks. His command consisted partly of militia and partly of volunteers,
including many men who had first enlisted for the expedition down the Mississippi. Starvation
and disease caused loud murmurings, and after one or two minor victories had been won the militiamen
took it into their heads to go back home. Jackson drew up the volunteers across the mutineers'
path and drove them back to the camp. Then the volunteers started off, and the militia had
to be used to bring them back! At one time the furious general faced a mutinous band single-handed
and, swearing that he would shoot the first man who stirred, awed the recalcitrants into obedience.
On another occasion he had a youth who had been guilty of insubordination shot before the whole
army as an object lesson. At last it became apparent that nothing could be done with such troops,
and the volunteers--such of them as had not already slipped away--were allowed to go home.
Governor Blount advised that the whole undertaking be given up. But Jackson wrote him a letter
that brought a flush of shame to his cheek, and in a short time fresh forces by the hundreds,
with ample supplies, were on the way to Fort Strother. Among the newcomers was a lank, angular-featured
frontiersman who answered to the name of Sam Houston.

After having been reduced for a short period to one hundred men, Jackson by early spring had
an army of five thousand, including a regiment of regulars, and found it once more possible
to act. The enemy decided to make its stand at a spot called by the Indians Tohopeka, by the
whites Horseshoe Bend, on the Tallapoosa. Here a thousand warriors, with many women and children,
took refuge behind breastworks which they believed impregnable, and here, in late March, Jackson
attacked with a force of three thousand men. No quarter was asked and none given, on either
side, and the battle quickly became a butchery. Driven by fire from a thicket of dry brush
in which they took refuge, the Creek warriors were shot down or bayoneted by the hundreds;
those who plunged into the river for safety were killed as they swam. Scarcely a hundred survived.
Among the number was a youth who could speak a little English, and whose broken leg one of
the surgeons undertook to treat. Three stalwart riflemen were required to hold the patient.
"Lie still, my boy, they will save your life," said Jackson encouragingly, as he came upon
the scene. "No good," replied the disconsolate victim. "No good. Cure um now, kill um again!"

The victory practically ended the war. Many of the "Red Sticks," as the Creek braves were called,
fled beyond the Florida border; but many--among them the astute half-breed Weathersford, who
had ordered the assault on Fort Mims--came in and surrendered. Fort Jackson, built in the river
fork, became an outpost of American sovereignty in the very heart of the Creek district. "The
fiends of the Tallapoosa," declared the victorious commander in his farewell address to his
men, "will no longer murder our women and children, or disturb the quiet of our borders."

Jackson returned to Tennessee to find himself the most popular man in the State. Nashville
gave him the first of what was destined to be a long series of tumultuous receptions; and within
a month the news came that William Henry Harrison had resigned his commission and that Jackson
had been appointed a major general in the army of the United States, with command in the southwestern
district, including Mobile and New Orleans. "Thus did the frontier soldier, who eighteen months
earlier had not commanded an expedition or a detachment, come to occupy the highest rank in
the army of his country. No other man in that country's service since the Revolution has risen
to the top quite so quickly."[1]

By his appointment Jackson became the eventual successor of General Wilkinson, with headquarters
at New Orleans. His first move, however, v as to pay a visit to Mobile; and on his way thither,
in August, 1814, he paused in the Creek country to garner the fruits of his late victory. A
council of the surviving chiefs was assembled and a treaty was presented, with a demand that
it be signed forthwith. The terms took the Indians aback, but argument was useless. The whites
were granted full rights to maintain military posts and roads and to navigate the rivers in
the Creek lands; the Creeks had to promise to stop trading with British and Spanish posts;
and they were made to cede to the United States all the lands which their people had claimed
west and southeast of the Coosa River--more than half of their ancient territories. Thus was
the glory of the Creek nation brought to an end.

Meanwhile the war with Great Britain was entering a new and threatening phase. No notable successes
had been achieved on land, and repeated attempts to reduce Canada had signally failed. On the
Great Lakes and the high seas the navy had won glory, but only a handful of privateers was
left to keep up the fight. The collapse of Napoleon's power had brought a lull in Europe, and
the British were free to concentrate their energies as never before on the conflict in America.
The effects were promptly seen in the campaign which led to the capture of Washington and the
burning of the Federal Capitol in August, 1814. They were equally manifest in a well-laid plan
for a great assault on the country's southern borders and on the great Mississippi Valley beyond.

The last-mentioned project meant that, after two years of immunity, the Southwest had become
a main theater of the war. There was plenty of warning of what was coming, for the British
squadron intended for the attack began assembling in the West Indies before the close of summer.
No one knew, however, where or when the blow would fall. To Jackson the first necessity seemed
to be to make sure of the defenses of Mobile. For a time, at all events, he believed that the
attack would be made there, rather than at New Orleans; and an attempt of a British naval force
in September to destroy Fort Bowyer, at the entrance to Mobile Bay, confirmed his opinion.

But the chief attraction of Mobile for the General was its proximity to Florida. In July he
had written to Washington asking permission to occupy Pensacola. Months passed without a reply.
Temptation to action grew; and when, in October, three thousand Tennessee troops arrived under
one of the subordinate officers in the recent Creek War, longer hesitation seemed a sign of
weakness. Jackson therefore led his forces against the Spanish stronghold, now in British hands,
and quickly forced its surrender. His men blew up one of the two forts, and the British blew
up the other. Within a week the work was done and the General, well pleased with his exploit,
was back at Mobile.

There he found awaiting him, in reply to his July letter, an order from the new Secretary of
War, James Monroe, forbidding him to touch Pensacola. No great harm was done, for the invaded
territory was no longer neutral soil, and the task of soothing the ruffled feelings of the
Spanish court did not prove difficult.

As the autumn wore on, signs multiplied that the first British objective in the South was to
be New Orleans, and no efforts were spared by the authorities at Washington to arouse the Southwest
to its danger and to stimulate an outpouring of troops sufficient to repel any force that might
be landed at the mouth of the Mississippi. On the 21st of November, Jackson set out for the
menaced city. Five days later a fleet of fifty vessels, carrying ten thousand veteran British
troops under command of Generals Pakenham and Gibbs, started from Jamaica for what was expected
to be an easy conquest. On the 10th of December the hostile armada cast anchor off the Louisiana
coast. Two weeks later some two thousand redcoats emerged from Lake Borgne, within six or seven
miles of New Orleans, when the approach to the city on that side was as yet unguarded by a
gun or a man or an entrenchment.

That the "impossible" was now accomplished was due mainly to Jackson, although credit must
not be withheld from a dozen energetic subordinate officers nor from the thousands of patriots
who made up the rank and file of the hastily gathered forces of defense. Men from Louisiana,
Mississippi, Georgia, Kentucky, and Tennessee--all contributed to one of the most remarkable
military achievements in our history; although when the fight was over it was found that hundreds
were still as unarmed as when they arrived upon the scene.

A preliminary clash, in a dense fog, on the second evening before Christmas served to inspire
each army with a wholesome respect for the other. The British decided to postpone further action
until their entire force could be brought up, and this gave Jackson just the time he needed
to assemble his own scattered divisions, select lines, of defense, and throw up breastworks.
By the end of the first week of January both sides were ready for the test.

The British army was a splendid body of seven thousand trained soldiers, seamen, and marines.

There were regiments which had helped Wellington to win Talavera, Salamanca, and Victoria,
and within a few short months some of these same regiments were to stand in that thin red line
which Ney and Napoleon's guard could never break. Their general, Pakenham, Wellington's brother-in-law,
was a distinguished pupil of his illustrious kinsman. Could frontiersmen who had never fought
together before, who had never seen the face of a civilized foe, withstand the conquerors of
Napoleon? But two branches of the same stubborn race were represented on that little watery
plain. The soldiers trained to serve the strongest will in the Old World were face to face
with the rough and ready yeomanry embattled for defense by the one man of the new world whose
soul had most iron in it. It was Salamanca against Tohopeka, discipline against individual
alertness, the Briton of the little Isle against the Briton of the wastes and wilds. But there
was one great difference. Wellington, "the Iron Duke," was not there; "Old Hickory" was everywhere
along the American lines.[2]

Behind their battery-studded parapets the Americans waited for the British to make an assault.
This the invaders did, five thousand strong, on January 8, 1815. The fighting was hard, but
the main attack failed at every point. Three British major generals, including Pakenham, were
killed early in the action, and the total British loss exceeded two thousand. The American
loss was but seventy-one. The shattered foe fell back, lay inactive for ten days, and then
quietly withdrew as they had come. Though Jackson was not noted for piety, he always believed
that his success on this occasion was the work of Providence. "Heaven, to be sure," he wrote
to Monroe, "has interposed most wonderfully in our behalf, and I am filled with gratitude when
I look back to what we have escaped."

By curious irony, the victory had no bearing upon the formal results of the war. A treaty of
peace had been signed at Ghent two weeks before, and the news of the pacification and of the
exploit at New Orleans reached the distracted President at almost the same time. But who shall
say that the battle was not one of the most momentous in American history? It compensated for
a score of humiliations suffered by the country in the preceding years. It revived the people's
drooping pride and put new energy into the nation's dealings with its rivals, contributing
more than any other single event to make this war indeed a "second war of independence." "Now,"
declared Henry Clay when the news reached him in Paris, "I can go to England without mortification."
Finally, the battle brought Andrew Jackson into his own as the idol and incarnation of the
West, and set the western democracy decisively forward as a force to be reckoned with in national
affairs.

CHAPTER III

THE "CONQUEST" OF FLORIDA

The victory at New Orleans made Jackson not only the most popular man in the United States
but a figure of international interest. "Napoleon, returning from Elba to eke out the Hundred
Days and add the name Waterloo to history, paused now and then a moment to study Jackson at
New Orleans. The Duke of Wellington, chosen by assembled Europe to meet the crisis, could find
time even at Brussels to call for 'all available information on the abortive expedition against
Louisiana.'"[3]

While his countrymen were sounding his praises, the General, however, fell into a controversy
with the authorities and people of New Orleans which lent a drab aspect to the closing scene
of an otherwise brilliant drama. One of his first acts upon arriving in the defenseless city
had been to declare martial law; and under the decree the daily life of the inhabitants had
been rigorously circumscribed, citizens had been pressed into military service, men under suspicion
had been locked up, and large quantities of cotton and other supplies had been seized for the
soldiers' use. When Pakenham's army was defeated, people expected an immediate return to normal
conditions. Jackson, however, proposed to take no chances. Neither the sailing of the British
fleet nor the receipt of the news of peace from Admiral Cochrane influenced him to relax his
vigilance, and only after official instructions came from Washington in the middle of March
was the ban lifted.

Meanwhile a violent quarrel had broken out between the commander and the civil authorities,
who naturally wished to resume their accustomed functions. Finding that the Creoles were systematically
evading service by registering as French citizens, Jackson abruptly ordered all such people
from the city; and he was responsible for numerous other arbitrary acts. Protests were lodged,
and some people threatened judicial proceedings. But they might have saved their breath. Jackson
was not the man to argue matters of the kind. A leading Creole who published an especially
pointed protest was clapped into prison, and when the Federal district judge, Hall, issued
a writ of habeas corpus in his behalf, Jackson had him also shut up.

As soon as he was liberated, the irate judge summoned Jackson into court to show why he should
not be held in contempt. Beyond a blanket vindication of his acts, the General would not plead.
"I will not answer interrogatories," he declared. "I may have erred, but my motives cannot
be misinterpreted." The judge thereupon imposed a fine of one thousand dollars, the only question
being, he declared, "whether the Law should bend to the General or the General to the Law."
Jackson accepted the sentence with equanimity, and to a group of admirers who drew him in a
carriage from the court room to one of the leading coffeehouses, he expressed lofty sentiments
on the obligation of citizens of every rank to obey the laws and uphold the courts. Twenty-nine
years afterwards Congress voted reimbursement to the full amount of the fine with interest.

For three weeks after the arrival of the treaty of peace Jackson lingered at New Orleans, haggling
by day with the contractors and merchants whose cotton, blankets, and bacon were yet to be
paid for, and enjoying in the evening the festivities planned in his honor by grateful citizens.
His pleasure in the gala affairs of the time was doubled by the presence of his wife, who one
day arrived quite unexpectedly in the company of some Tennessee friends. Mrs. Jackson was a
typical frontier planter's wife--kind-hearted, sincere, benevolent, thrifty, pious, but unlettered
and wholly innocent of polished manners. In all her forty-eight years she had never seen a
city more pretentious than Nashville. She was, moreover, stout and florid, and it may be supposed
that in her rustic garb she was a somewhat conspicuous figure among the fashionable ladies
of New Orleans society.

But the wife of Jackson's accomplished friend and future Secretary of State, Edward Livingston,
fitted her out with fashionable clothes and tactfully instructed her in the niceties of etiquette,
and ere long she was able to demean herself, if not without a betrayal of her unfamiliarity
with the environment, at all events to the complete satisfaction of the General. The latter's
devotion to his wife was a matter of much comment. "Debonair as he had been in his association
with the Creole belles, he never missed an opportunity to demonstrate that he considered the
short, stout, beaming matron at his side the perfection of her sex and far and away the most
charming woman in the world."[4] "Aunt Rachel," as she was known throughout western Tennessee,
lived to see the hero of New Orleans elected President, but not to share with him the honors
of the position. "I have sometimes thought," said Thomas Hart Benton, "that General Jackson
might have been a more equable tenant of the White House than he was had she been spared to
share it with him. At all events, she was the only human being on earth who ever possessed
the power to swerve his mighty will or soothe his fierce temper."

Shortly before their departure the Jacksons were guests of honor at a grand ball at the Academy.
The upper floor was arranged for dancing and the lower for supper, and the entire building
was aglow with flowers, colored lamps, and transparencies. As the evening wore on and the dances
of polite society had their due turn, the General finally avowed that he and his bonny wife
would show the proud city folk what real dancing was. A somewhat cynical observer--a certain
Nolte, whom Jackson had just forced to his own terms in a settlement for war supplies--records
his impression as follows: "After supper we were treated to a most delicious pas de deux by
the conqueror and his spouse. To see these two figures, the General, a long haggard man, with
limbs like a skeleton, and Madame la Générale, a short fat dumpling, bobbing opposite each
other like half-drunken Indians, to the wild melody of Possum up de Gum Tree, and endeavoring
to make a spring into the air, was very remarkable, and far more edifying a spectacle than
any European ballet could possibly have furnished." But Jackson was only less proud of his
accomplishments as a dancer than as a fighter, and it was the part of discretion for a man
of Nolte's critical turn to keep a straight face on this occasion.

In early April the General and his wife started homeward, the latter bearing as a parting gift
from the women of New Orleans the somewhat gaudy set of topaz jewelry which she wears in her
most familiar portrait. The trip was a continuous ovation, and at Nashville a series of festivities
wound up with a banquet attended by the most distinguished soldiers and citizens of Tennessee
and presided over by the Governor of the State. Other cities gave dinners, and legislatures
voted swords and addresses. A period of rest at the Hermitage was interrupted in the autumn
of 1815 by a horseback trip to Washington which involved a succession of dinners and receptions.
But after a few months the much fêted soldier was back at Nashville, ready, as he said, to
"resume the cultivation of that friendly intercourse with my friends and neighbors which has
heretofore constituted so great a portion of my happiness."

After Jackson had talked over his actions at New Orleans with both the President and the Secretary
of War, he had received, as he says, "a chart blank," approving his "whole proceedings"; so
he had nothing further to worry about on that score. The national army had been reorganized
on a peace footing, in two divisions, each under command of a major general. The northern division
fell to Jacob Brown of New York, the hero of Lundy's Lane; the southern fell to Jackson, with
headquarters at Nashville.

Jackson was the last man to suppose that warfare in the southern half of the United States
was a thing of the past. He knew that the late contest had left the southern Indians restless
and that the existing treaties were likely to be repudiated at any moment. Florida was still
in the hands of the Spaniards, and he had never a doubt that some day this territory would
have to be conquered and annexed. Moreover Jackson believed for some years after 1815, according
to General Eaton, that Great Britain would again make war on the United States, using Florida
as a base. At all events, it can have caused the General no surprise--or regret--to be called
again into active service on the Florida border before the close of 1817.

The hold of the Spaniards upon Florida had been so far weakened by the War of 1812 that after
the restoration of peace they occupied only three important points--Pensacola, St. Marks, and
St. Augustine. The rest of the territory became a No Man's Land, an ideal resort for desperate
adventurers of every race and description. There was a considerable Indian population, consisting
mainly of Seminoles, a tribe belonging to the Creek Confederacy, together with other Creeks
who had fled across the border to escape the vengeance of Jackson at Tohopeka. All were bitterly
hostile to the United States. There were Spanish freebooters, Irish roustabouts, Scotch free
lances, and runaway slaves--a nondescript lot, and all ready for any undertaking that promised
excitement, revenge, or booty. Furthermore there were some British soldiers who had remained
on their own responsibility after the troops were withdrawn. The leading spirit among these
was Colonel Edward Nicholls, who had already made himself obnoxious to the United States by
his conduct at Pensacola.

At the close of the war Nicholls and his men built a fort on the Apalachicola, fifteen miles
from the Gulf, and began again to collect and organize fugitive slaves, Indians, and adventurers
of every sort, whom they employed on raids into the territory of the United States and in attacks
upon its inhabitants. The Creeks were falsely informed that in the Treaty of Ghent the United
States had promised to give up all lands taken from them during the late war, and they were
thus incited to rise in vindication of their alleged rights. What Nicholls was aiming at came
out when, in company with several chieftains, he returned to England to ask for an alliance
between the "mother country" and his buccaneer state. He met no encouragement, however, and
in reply to an American protest the British Government repudiated his arts. His rôle was nevertheless
promptly taken up by a misguided Scotch trader, Alexander Arbuthnot, and the reign of lawlessness
continued.

After all, it was Spain's business to keep order on the frontier; and the United States waited
a year and a half for the Madrid Government to give evidence of intent to do so. But, as nothing
but vain promises were forthcoming, some American troops engaged in building a fort on the
Apalachicola, just north of the boundary line, marched down the river in July, 1816, bombarded
Nicholls's Negro Fort, blew up its magazine, and practically exterminated the Negro and Indian
garrison. A menace to the slave property of southern Georgia was thus removed, but the bigger
problem remained. The Seminoles were restive; the refugee Creeks kept up their forays across
the border; and the rich lands acquired by the Treaty of Fort Jackson were fast filling with
white settlers who clamored for protection. Though the Monroe Administration had opened negotiations
for the cession of the whole Florida country to the United States, progress was slow and the
outcome doubtful.

Matters came to a head in the closing weeks of 1817. General Gaines, who was in command on
the Florida border, had tried repeatedly to get an interview with the principal "Red Stick"
chieftain, but all of his overtures had been repulsed. Finally he sent a detachment of soldiers
to conduct the dignitary and his warriors from their village at Fowltown, on the American side
of the line, to a designated parley ground. In no mood for negotiation, the chief ordered his
followers to fire on the visitors; whereupon the latter seized and destroyed the village.

The fight at Fowltown may be regarded as the beginning of the Seminole War. General Gaines
was directed to begin operations against the Indians and to pursue them if necessary into East
Florida; but before he could carry out his orders, Jackson was put in personal command of the
forces acting against the Indians and was instructed to concentrate all of the troops in his
department at Fort Scott and to obtain from the Governors of Georgia and Tennessee such other
assistance as he should need.

Jackson received his orders at the Hermitage. Governor Blount was absent from Nashville, but
the eager commander went ahead raising troops on his own responsibility. Nothing was so certain
to whet his appetite for action as the prospect of a war in Florida. Not only did his instructions
authorize him to pursue the enemy, under certain conditions, into Spanish territory, but from
the first he himself conceived of the enterprise as decidedly more than a punitive expedition.
The United States wanted Florida and was at the moment trying to induce Spain to give it up.

This "Rhea letter" became the innocent source of one of the most famous controversies in American
history. Jackson supposed that the communication had been promptly delivered to Monroe, and
that his plan for the conquest of Florida had the full, if secret, approval of the Administration.
Instructions from the Secretary of War, Calhoun, seemed susceptible of no other interpretation;
besides, the conqueror subsequently maintained that he received through Rhea the assurance
that he coveted. Monroe, however, later denied flatly that he had given any orders of the kind.
Indeed he said that through a peculiar combination of circumstances he had not even read Jackson's
letter until long after the Florida campaign was ended. Each man, no doubt, thought he was
telling the truth, and historians will probably always differ upon the merits of the case.
The one thing that is perfectly certain is that Jackson, when he carried his troops into Florida
in 1818, believed that the Government expected him to prepare the territory for permanent American
occupation.

In early March, Jackson was at Fort Scott, on the Georgia frontier, with about two thousand
men. Though he expected other forces, Jackson found that scarcity of rations made it inadvisable
to wait for them, and he therefore marched his army on as rapidly as possible down the soggy
bank of the Apalachicola, past the ruins of Negro Fort, into Florida, where he found in readiness
the provisions which had been sent forward by way of Mobile. Turning eastward, Jackson bore
down upon the Spanish settlement of St. Marks, where it was rumored that the hostile natives
had assembled in considerable numbers. A small fleet of gunboats from Mobile and New Orleans
was ordered to move along the coast and intercept any fugitives, "white, red, or black." Upwards
of two thousand friendly Indians joined the land expedition, and the invasion became from a
military standpoint a sheer farce. The Seminoles were utterly unprepared for war, and their
villages were taken possession of, one by one, without opposition. At St. Marks the Indians
fled precipitately, and the little Spanish garrison, after a glimpse of the investing force,
asked only that receipts be given for the movable property confiscated. The Seminole War was
over almost before it was begun.

But Jackson was not in Florida simply to quell the Seminoles. He was there to vindicate the
honor and establish the sovereignty of the United States. Hence there was further work for
him to do. The British instigators of lawlessness were to be apprehended; the surviving evidences
of Spanish authority were to be obliterated. Both objects Jackson attained with characteristic
speed and thoroughness. At St. Marks he made Arbuthnot a prisoner; at Suwanee he captured another
meddler by the name of Ambrister; and after a court-martial he hanged one and shot the other
in the presence of the chieftains whom these men had deceived into thinking that Great Britain
stood ready to come to the red man's relief. Two Indian chiefs who were considered ringleaders
he likewise executed. Then, leaving St. Marks in the possession of two hundred troops, Jackson
advanced upon Pensacola, the main seat of Spanish authority in the colony.

From the Governor, Don José Callava, now came a dignified note of protest; but the invader's
only reply was an announcement of his purpose to take possession of the town, on the ground
that its population had encouraged the Indians and given them supplies. On May 24, 1818, the
American forces and their allies marched in, unopposed, and the commander coolly apprised Callava
that he would "assume the government until the transaction can be amicably adjusted by the
two governments." "If, contrary to my hopes," responded the Spanish dignitary, "Your Excellency
should persist in your intention to occupy this fortress, which I am resolved to defend to
the last extremity, I shall repel force by force; and he who resists aggression can never be
considered an aggressor. God preserve Your Excellency many years." To which Jackson replied
that "resistance would be a wanton sacrifice of blood," and that he could not but remark on
the Governor's inconsistency in presuming himself capable of repelling an army which had conquered
Indian tribes admittedly too powerful for the Spaniards to control.

When the Americans approached the fort in which Callava had taken refuge, they were received
with a volley which they answered, as Jackson tells us, with "a nine-pound piece and five eight-inch
howitzers." The Spaniards, whose only purpose was to make a decent show of defending the place,
then ran up the white flag and were allowed to march out with the honors of war. The victor
sent the Governor and soldiery off to Havana, installed a United States collector of customs,
stationed a United States garrison in the fort, and on the following day set out on his way
to Tennessee.

In a five months' campaign Jackson had established peace on the border, had broken the power
of the hostile Indians, and had substantially conquered Florida. Not a white man in his army
had been killed in battle, and not even the most extravagant eulogist could aver that the war
had been a great military triumph. None the less, the people--especially in the West and South--were
intensely pleased. Life in the frontier regions would now be safer; and the acquisition of
the coveted Florida country was brought appreciably nearer. The popular sentiment on the latter
subject found characteristic expression in a toast at a banquet given at Nashville in honor
of the returning conqueror: "Pensacola--Spanish perfidy and Indian barbarity rendered its capture
necessary. May our Government never surrender it from the fear of war!"

It was easy enough for Jackson to "take" Florida and for the people to rejoice in the exploit.
To defend or explain away the irregular features of the act was, however, quite a different
matter; and that was the task which fell to the authorities at Washington. "The territory of
a friendly power had been invaded, its officers deposed, its towns and fortresses taken possession
of; two citizens of another friendly and powerful nation had been executed in scandalously
summary fashion, upon suspicion rather than evidence." The Spanish Minister, Onis, wrathfully
protested to the Secretary of State and demanded that Jackson be punished; while from London
Rush quoted Castlereagh as saying that English feeling was so wrought up that war could be
produced by the raising of a finger.

Monroe and his Cabinet were therefore given many anxious days and sleepless nights. They wanted
to buy Florida, not conquer it. They had entertained no thought of authorizing the things that
Jackson had done. They recognized that the Tennesseean's crude notions of international law
could not be upheld in dealings with proud European States. Yet it was borne in upon them from
every side that the nation approved what had been done; and the politically ambitious might
well think twice before casting any slur upon the acts of the people's hero. Moreover the irascibility
of the conqueror himself was known and feared. Calhoun, the Secretary of War, who was specially
annoyed because his instructions had not been followed, favored a public censure. On the other
hand, John Quincy Adams, the Secretary of State, took the ground that everything that Jackson
had done was "defensive and incident to his main duty to crush the Seminoles." The Administration
finally reached the decision to surrender the posts but otherwise to back up the General, in
the hope of convincing Spain of the futility of trying longer to hold Florida. Monroe explained
the necessities of the situation to Jackson as tactfully as he could, leaving him under the
impression--which was corrected only in 1830--that Crawford, rather than Calhoun, was the member
of the Cabinet who had held out against him.

But the controversy spread beyond the Cabinet circle. During the winter of 1818-19 Congress
took it up, and a determined effort was made to carry a vote of censure. The debate in the
House--with galleries crowded to suffocation, we are informed by the National Intelligencer--lasted
four weeks and was notable for bringing Clay for the first time publicly into opposition to
the Tenneseean. The resolutions containing the censure were voted down, however, by a majority
of almost two to one. In the Senate a select committee, after a laborious investigation, brought
in an unfavorable report, but no further action was taken.

When the discussion in Congress was at its height, Jackson himself appeared in Washington.
Certain friends at the capital, fearing that his outbursts of temper would prejudice his case,
urged him to remain at home, but others assured him that his presence was needed. To his neighbor,
Major Lewis, Jackson confided: "A lot of d---d rascals, with Clay at their head--and maybe
with Adams in the rear-guard--are setting up a conspiracy against me. I'm going there to see
it out with them."

Until vindicated by the House vote, he remained quietly in his hotel. After that he felt free
to pay and receive calls, attend dinners, and accept the tokens of regard which were showered
upon him. It was now that he paid his first visit to a number of the larger eastern cities.
Philadelphia fêted him four days. In New York the freedom of the city was presented by the
mayor on a delicately inscribed parchment enclosed in a gold box, and Tammany gave a great
dinner at which the leading guest, to the dismay of the young Van Buren and other supporters
of Crawford, toasted DeWitt Clinton, the leader of the opposing Republican faction. At Baltimore
there was a dinner, and the city council asked the visitor to sit for a picture by Peale for
the adornment of the council room. Here the General was handed a copy of the Senate committee's
report, abounding in strictures on his Seminole campaign. Hastening back to Washington, he
filled the air with threats, and was narrowly prevented from personally assaulting a member
of the investigating committee. When, however, it appeared that the report was to be allowed
to repose for all time on the table, Jackson's indignation cooled, and soon he was on his way
back to Tennessee. With him went the news that Adams and Onis had signed a treaty of "amity,
settlements, and limits," whereby for a consideration of five million dollars the sovereignty
of all Florida was transferred to the United States. This treaty, as Jackson viewed it, was
the crowning vindication of the acts which had been called in question; and public sentiment
agreed with him.

Dilatory tactics on the part of the Madrid Government delayed the actual transfer of the territory
more than two years. After having twice refused, Jackson at length accepted the governorship
of Florida, and in the early summer of 1821 he set out, by way of New Orleans, for his new
post. Mrs. Jackson went with him, although she had no liking for either the territory or its
people. On the morning of the 17th of July the formal transfer took place. A procession was
formed, consisting of such American soldiers as were on the spot. A ship's band briskly played
The Star Spangled Banner and the new Governor rode proudly at the fore as the procession moved
along Main Street to the government house, where ex-Governor Callava with his staff was in
waiting. The Spanish flag was hauled down, the American was run up, the keys were handed over,
and the remaining members of the garrison were sent off to the vessels which on the morrow
were to bear them on their way to Cuba. Only Callava and a few other officials and merchants
stayed behind to close up matters of public and private business.

Jackson's governorship was brief and stormy. In the first place, he had no taste for administrative
routine, and he found no such opportunity as he had hoped for to confer favors upon his friends.
"I am sure our stay here will not be long," wrote Mrs. Jackson to a brother in early August.
"This office does not suit my husband.... There never was a man more disappointed than he has
been. He has not the power to appoint one of his friends." In the second place, the new Governor's
status was wholly anomalous, since Congress had extended to the territory only the revenue
and anti-slave-trade laws, leaving Jackson to exercise in other matters the rather vague powers
of the captain general of Cuba and of the Spanish governors of the Floridas. And in the third
place, before his first twenty-four hours were up, the new executive fell into a desperate
quarrel with his predecessor, a man of sufficiently similar temperament to make the contest
a source of sport for the gods.

Jackson was prepared to believe the worst of any Spaniard, and his relations with Callava grew
steadily more strained until finally, with a view to obtaining possession of certain deeds
and other legal papers, he had the irate dignitary shut up overnight in the calaboose. Then
he fell upon the judge of the Western District of Florida for issuing a writ of habeas corpus
in the Spaniard's behalf; and all parties--Jackson, Callava, and the judge--swamped the wearied
officials at Washington with "statements" and "exhibitions" setting forth in lurid phraseology
their respective views upon the questions involved. Callava finally carried his complaints
to the capital in person and stirred the Spanish Minister to a fresh bombardment of the White
House. Monroe's Cabinet spent three days discussing the subject, without coming to a decision.
Many were in honest doubt as to the principles of law involved; some were fearful of the political
effects of any stand they might take; all were inexpressibly relieved when, late in the year,
word came that "Don Andrew Jackson" had resigned the governorship and was proposing to retire
to private life at the Hermitage.

CHAPTER IV

THE DEATH OF "KING CAUCUS"

On a bracing November afternoon in 1821 Jackson rode up with his family to the Hermitage free
for the first time in thirty-two years from all responsibility of civil and military office.
He was now fifty-four years old and much broken by exposure and disease; the prospect of spending
the remainder of his days among his hospitable neighbors on the banks of the Cumberland yielded
deep satisfaction. The home-loving Mrs. Jackson, too, earnestly desired that he should not
again be drawn into the swirl of public life. "I do hope," she wrote plaintively to a niece
soon after her return to the Hermitage, "they will leave Mr. Jackson alone. He is not a well
man and never will be unless they allow him to rest. He has done his share for the country.
How little time has he had to himself or for his own interests in the thirty years of our wedded
life in all that time he has not spent one-fourth of his days under his own roof. The rest
of the time away, traveling, holding court, or at the capital of the country, or in camp, or
fighting its battles, or treating with the Indians; mercy knows what not."

The intent to retire was honest enough but not so easy to carry out. The conqueror of the Creeks
and Seminoles belonged not merely to Tennessee but to the entire Southwest; the victor of New
Orleans belonged to the Nation. Already there was talk--"talk everlastingly," Mrs. Jackson
tells us in the letter just quoted--of making the hero President. Jackson, furthermore, was
not the type of man to sit idly by while great scenes were enacted on the political stage.
When he returned from Florida, he faced the future with the weary vision of a sick man. Rest
and reviving strength, however, put the old vim into his words and acts. In two years he was
a second time taking a seat in the United States Senate, in three he was contesting for the
presidency, and in seven he was moving into the White House.

The glimpses which one gets of the General's surroundings and habits during his brief interval
of repose create a pleasing impression. Following the winding turnpike westward from Nashville
a distance of nine or ten miles and rumbling across the old wooden bridge over Stone River,
a visitor would find himself at Hermitage Farm. The estate contained at that time somewhat
more than a thousand acres, of which four hundred were under cultivation and the remainder
luxuriant forest. Negro cabins stood here and there, and in one corner was a little brick church
which the proprietor had built for the solace of his wife. In the center of a well-kept lawn,
flanked with cedars and oaks, stood the family mansion, the Hermitage, whose construction had
been begun at the close of the Seminole War in 1819. The building was of brick, two stories
high, with a double wooden piazza in both front and rear. The rooms were small and simply furnished,
the chief adornment being portraits of the General and his friends, though later was added
the familiar painting of Mrs. Jackson. Lavasseur, who as private secretary of La Fayette visited
the place in 1825, was greatly surprised to find a person of Jackson's renown living in a structure
which in France would hardly suffice for the porter's lodge at the château of a man of similar
standing. But western Tennessee afforded nothing finer, and Jackson considered himself palatially
housed.

Life on the Hermitage estate had its full share of the charm of the old South. After breakfasting
at eight or nine, the proprietor spent the day riding over his broad acres, giving instructions
to his workmen, keeping up his accounts, chatting with neighbors and passers-by, and devouring
the newspapers with a zeal born of unremitting interest in public affairs. After the evening
meal the family gathered on the cool piazza in summer, or around the blazing hearth of the
great living room in winter, and spent the hours until the early bedtime in telling stories,
discussing local and national happenings, or listening to the news of distant localities as
retailed by the casual visitor. The hospitality of the Jackson home was proverbial. The General's
army friends came often to see him. Political leaders and advisers flocked to the place. Clergymen
of all denominations were received with special warmth by Mrs. Jackson. Eastern men of distinction,
when traveling to the West, came to pay their respects. No foreigner who penetrated as far
as the Mississippi Valley would think of returning to his native land without calling upon
the picturesque figure at the Hermitage.

Chief among visitors from abroad was La Fayette. The two men met in Washington in 1824 and
formed an instant attachment for each other. The great French patriot was greeted at Nashville
the following year with a public reception and banquet at which Jackson, as the first citizen
of the State, did the honors. Afterwards he spent some days in the Jackson home, and one can
imagine the avidity with which the two men discussed the American and French revolutions, Napoleon,
and the late New Orleans campaign.

Jackson was first and last a democrat. He never lost touch with the commonest people. Nevertheless
there was always something of the grand manner about him. On formal and ceremonial occasions
he bore himself with becoming dignity and even grace; in dress he was, as a rule, punctilious.
During his years at the Hermitage he was accustomed to ride about in a carriage drawn by four
spirited iron-gray horses, attended by servants in blue livery with brass buttons, glazed hats,
and silver bands. "A very big man, sir," declared an old hotel waiter to the visiting biographer
Parton long afterwards. "We had many big men, sir, in Nashville at that time, but General Jackson
was the biggest man of them all. I knew the General, sir; but he always had so many people
around him when he came to town that it was not often I could get a chance to say anything to him."

The question as to who first proposed Jackson for the presidency will probably never be answered.
The victory at New Orleans evidently brought the idea into many minds. As the campaign of 1816
was beginning, Aaron Burr wrote to his son-in-law that, if the country wanted a President of
firmness and decision, "that man is Andrew Jackson." Not apparently until 1821 was the suggestion
put forward in such a way as to lead Jackson himself to take note of it. Even then he scoffed
at it. To a friend who assured him that he was not "safe from the presidency" in 1824, he replied:
"I really hope you don't think that I am d---- fool enough to believe that. No sir; I may be
pretty well satisfied with myself in some things, but am not vain enough for that."

It really mattered little what the General himself thought. His Tennessee friends had conceived
the idea that he could be elected, and already they were at work to realize this vision. One
of the most active was John H. Eaton, who had lately written the hero's biography down to the
return from New Orleans. Another of his friends was Governor Blount. John Rhea, Felix Grundy,
and half a dozen more helped. But the man who really made Jackson President was his near neighbor
and his inseparable companion of later years, William B. Lewis.

In a day of astute politicians Major Lewis was one of the cleverest. He knew Jackson more intimately
than did any other man and could sway him readily to his purposes in all matters upon which
the General's mind was not absolutely made up. He had a wide acquaintance over the country;
he was possessed of ample means and leisure; he was an adept at pulling judiciously laid and
well-concealed political wires; he fully understood the ideas, aspirations, and feelings of
the classes whose support was necessary to the success of his plans. In the present juncture
he worked on two main lines: first, to arouse Jackson's own State to a feverish enthusiasm
for the candidacy of its "favorite son," and, second, to start apparently spontaneous Jackson
movements in various sections of the country, in such a manner that their cumulative effect
would be to create an impression of a nation-wide and irresistible demand for the victor of
New Orleans as a candidate.

Tennessee was easily stirred. That the General merited the highest honor within the gift of
the people required no argument among his fellow citizens. The first open steps were taken
in January, 1822, when the Gazette and other Nashville papers sounded the clarion call. The
response was overwhelming; and when Jackson himself, in reply to a letter from Grundy, diplomatically
declared that he would "neither seek nor shun" the presidency, his candidacy was regarded as
an established fact. On the 20th of July, the Legislature of the State placed him formally
in nomination. Meanwhile Lewis had gone to North Carolina to work up sentiment there, and by
the close of the year assurances of support were coming in satisfactorily. From being skeptical
or at best indifferent, Jackson himself had come to share the enthusiasm of his assiduous friends.

The Jackson managers banked from the first upon two main assets: one was the exceptional popularity
of their candidate, especially in the South and West; the other was a political situation so
muddled that at the coming election it might be made to yield almost any result. For upwards
of a generation the presidency and vice presidency had been at the disposal of a working alliance
of Virginia and New York, buttressed by such support as was needed from other controllable
States. Virginia regularly got the presidency, New York (except at the time of the Clinton
defection of 1812) the vice presidency. After the second election of Monroe, in 1820, however,
there were multiplying signs that this affiliation of interests had reached the end of its
tether. In the first place, the Virginia dynasty had run out; at all events Virginia had no
candidate to offer and was preparing to turn its support to a Georgian of Virginian birth,
William H. Crawford. In the second place, party lines had totally disappeared, and the unifying
and stabilizing influences of party names and affiliations could not be counted on to keep
down the number of independent candidacies. Already, indeed, by the end of 1822 there were
a half-dozen avowed candidates, three of whom had seats at Monroe's Cabinet table. Each was
the representative of a section or of a distinct interest, rather than of a party, and no one
was likely to feel under any compulsion to withdraw from the race at a preliminary stage.

New England offered John Quincy Adams. She did so with reluctance, for the old Federalist elements
had never forgiven him for his desertion to the Republican camp in the days of the embargo,
while the back country democracy had always looked upon him as an alien. But he was the section's
only available man--indeed, the only promising candidate from any Northern State. His frigid
manner was against him. But he had had a long and honorable diplomatic career; he was winning
new distinction as Secretary of State; and he could expect to profit both by the feeling that
the North was entitled to the presidency and by the fact that he was the only candidate from
a non-slave State.

Crawford, Secretary of the Treasury, was the heir apparent of the Virginia dynasty. Formerly
this would have meant a clear road to the White House. Even now it was supposed to be a tremendous
asset; and notwithstanding the Georgian's personal unpopularity in most parts of the country,
his advantages as the "regular candidate," coupled with the long and careful campaign carried
on in his behalf, were expected by many keen observers to pull him through.

A third candidate within the Cabinet circle was Calhoun, Secretary of War. Like Crawford, he
could expect to reach the presidency only by winning the support of one or more of the greater
Northern States. For a while he had hopes of Pennsylvania. When it appeared that he had nothing
to look for in this direction, he resigned himself to the conclusion that, since he was yet
hardly forty years of age, his time had not yet come.

For the first time, the West now put forward candidates--two of them, Clay and Jackson. Clay
was a Kentuckian, of Virginian birth and breeding, in whom were mingled the leading characteristics
of both his native and his adopted section. He was "impetuous, wilful, high-spirited, daring,
jealous, but, withal, a lovable man." For a decade he had been the most conspicuous figure
in the national House of Representatives. He had raised the speakership to a high level of
importance and through its power had fashioned a set of issues, reflective of western and middle-state
ideas, upon which the politics of the country turned for more than a quarter of a century.
As befitted a "great conciliator," he had admirers in every corner of the land. Whether his
strength could be sufficiently massed to yield electoral results remained to be discovered.

But what of Jackson? If, as one writer has said, Clay was one of the favorites of the West,
Jackson was the West itself. He could make no claim to statesmanship. He had held no important
legislative or administrative position in his State, and his brief career in Congress was entirely
without distinction. He was a man of action, not a theorist, and his views on public questions
were, even as late as 1820, not clear cut or widely known. In a general way he represented
the school of Randolph and Monroe, rather than that of Jefferson and Madison. He was a moderate
protectionist, because he believed that domestic manufactures would make the United States
independent of European countries in time of war. On the Bank and internal improvements his
mind was not made up, although he was inclined to regard both as unconstitutional.

Jackson's attitude toward the leading political personalities of the time left no room for
doubt. He supported Monroe in 1816 and in 1820 and continued on friendly terms with him notwithstanding
the President's failure on certain occasions to follow his advice. Among the new contenders
for the presidency the one he disliked most was Crawford. "As to Wm. H. Crawford," he wrote
to a friend in 1821, "you know my opinion. I would support the Devil first." Clay, also, he
disliked--partly out of recollection of the Kentuckian's censorious attitude during the Seminole
debates, partly because of the natural rivalry between the two men for the favor of the western
people. Clay fully reciprocated by refusing to believe that "killing 2,500 Englishmen at New
Orleans" qualified Jackson for the "various difficult and complicated duties of the chief magistracy."
Toward Adams, Jackson was not ill disposed; before he decided to permit his own name to be
used, he said that he would give his support in 1824 to the New Englander--unless one other
person should be brought forward. That person was Calhoun, for whom, among all the candidates
of the day, he thus far had the warmest regard.

Among so many aspirants--and not all have been mentioned--how should the people make up their
minds? In earlier days the party caucuses in Congress would have eliminated various candidates,
and the voters would have found themselves called upon to make a choice between probably but
two opponents. The caucus was an informal, voluntary gathering of the party members in the
two houses to canvass the political situation and decide upon the men to be supported by the
rank and file of the party for the presidency and vice presidency. In the lack of other nominating
machinery it served a useful purpose, and nominations had been commonly made in this manner
from 1796 onwards. There were obvious objections to the plan--chiefly that the authority exercised
was assumed rather than delegated--and, as the campaign of 1824 approached, opposition flared
up in a very impressive manner.

Crawford, as the "regular" candidate, wanted a caucus, and his adherents supported him in the
wish. But all his rivals were opposed to it, partly because they felt that they could not gain
a caucus nomination, partly because their followers generally objected to the system. "King
Caucus" became the target of general criticism. Newspapers, except those for Crawford, denounced
the old system; legislatures passed resolutions against it; public meetings condemned it; ponderous
pamphlets were hurled at it; the campaigns of Jackson and Clay, in particular, found their
keynote in hostility toward it. Failing to perceive that under the changed circumstances a
caucus nomination might become a liability rather than an asset, the Crawford element pushed
its plans, and on February 14, 1824, a caucus--destined to be the last of the kind in the country--was
duly held. It proved a fiasco, for it was attended by only sixty-six persons. Crawford was
"recommended to the people of the United States" by an almost unanimous vote, but the only
effect was to infuse fresh energy into the campaigns of his leading competitors. "The caucus,"
wrote Daniel Webster to his brother Ezekiel, "has hurt nobody but its friends."

For the first time in eight years the country witnessed a real presidential contest. The campaign,
none the less, was one in which the candidates themselves took but little active part. The
days of "swinging around the circle" had not yet dawned in our national politics, nor had even
those of the "front-porch" campaign. Adams made no effort either to be nominated or to be elected,
retaining throughout the contest that austere reserve in public manner which contrasted so
singularly with his amiability and good humor in private life. Jackson remained quietly at
the Hermitage, replying to correspondents and acknowledging expressions of support, but leaving
to his managers the work of winning the voters. Clay, whose oratorical gifts would have made
him an invincible twentieth century campaigner, contented himself with a few interviews and
speeches. The candidate who normally would have taken most active personal part in the campaign
was Crawford. But in August, 1823--six months before the caucus nomination--he was stricken
with paralysis and rendered speechless, almost blind, and practically helpless. For months
he hovered between life and death in a "mansion" on the outskirts of Washington, while his
friends labored to conceal the seriousness of his condition and to keep his canvass going.
Gradually he rallied; but his powerful frame was shattered, and even when the caucus discharged
its appointed task of nominating him, the politicians were cold-heartedly speculating upon
who would receive the "old republican" support if he should die. He recovered and lived ten
years; but his chances of the presidency were much diminished by his ill fortune. "He had fallen
with his face toward the goal, with his eyes and his heart fixed upon it."

As the canvass progressed, Jackson steadily gained. His election to the United States Senate,
in the autumn of 1823, over a stanch supporter of Crawford showed that his own State was acting
in good faith when it proposed him for the higher position. Clever propaganda turned Pennsylvania
"Jackson mad"; whereupon Calhoun, with an eye to the future, sought an alliance with his competitor.
The upshot was that a convention held at Harrisburg in March, 1824, nominated Jackson almost
unanimously and named Calhoun for the vice presidency. Hostility to the caucus became also
a great asset. Tariff, internal improvements, and foreign policy were discussed in the campaign,
but the real issue was the manner of selecting the President. Should he continue to be chosen
by a combination of Congressmen, or should the people take matters into their own hands? Impatience
with the caucus system showed itself in numerous nominations of Clay, Adams, and Jackson by
sundry state conventions, legislatures, and other more or less official bodies. The supporters
of Jackson, in particular, made "down with the caucus" their rallying cry and found it tremendously
effective. In the earlier stages of the campaign the politicians, aside from Lewis and his
coworkers, were unwilling to believe that Jackson could be elected. Later, however, they were
forced to acknowledge his strength, and at the end the fight was really between Jackson and
the field, rather than between Crawford and the field as had been anticipated.

At the beginning of November, Jackson, accompanied by his wife and traveling in a handsome
coach drawn by four of the finest Hermitage thoroughbreds, set out for Washington. Hostile
scribblers lost no time in contrasting this display of grandeur with the republican simplicity
of Jefferson, who rode from Monticello to the capital on the back of a plantation nag without
pedigree. But Jackson was not perturbed. At various points on the road he received returns
from the elections, and when after four or five weeks the equipage drew up in the capital Jackson
knew the general result. Calhoun had been elected vice president with little opposition. But
no one of the presidential candidates had obtained an electoral majority, and the task of choosing
among the highest three would, under the terms of the Constitution, devolve upon the House
of Representatives. When, by the middle of December, the returns were all in, it was found
that Jackson would have 99 votes in the electoral college, Adams 84, Crawford 41, and Clay 37.

The country awaited the 9th of February--the day of the official count--with great interest.
Clay was, of course, eliminated. Crawford likewise, by reason of his poor showing and the precarious
state of his health, could not expect to do more than hold his own. The contest had narrowed
to Jackson and Adams, with Clay holding the balance. There were twenty-four States in the Union;
the successful candidate must command the votes of thirteen.

The choice that Clay now had to make was distasteful, although not really difficult. Jackson
had obtained a substantial plurality of the electoral votes; he probably had a plurality of
the popular vote, although in the six States in which the electors were chosen by the Legislature
the popular vote could not be computed; the Legislature of Clay's own State called upon the
Congressmen from the State to give the Tenneseean its support. But Clay had felt very bitterly
about the candidacy of "this military chieftain." Furthermore, he knew that if Jackson were
to be elected, the country would not be disposed to take his successor from the West. Besides,
Calhoun had put himself in line for the Jacksonian succession. On the other hand, Clay was
not without grievances against Adams. The New Englander had captured the coveted Secretaryship
of State in Monroe's Cabinet; he had taken no pains to conceal his dislike of the Kentucky
"gamester in politics"; his foreign policy had been the target of many of Clay's keenest oratorical
thrusts. But the country would be safe in his hands; and a popular westerner might well hope
to become his successor. The decision in favor of Adams was reached with little delay and was
confided to intimates almost two months before the House balloted. Though Clay's choice did
not insure the election of Adams, it made that outcome extremely probable.

As the weeks passed, the situation became more tense. All the principals in the drama were
at the capital--Adams as Secretary of State, Crawford as Secretary of the Treasury, Clay as
Speaker of the House, Jackson as Senator--and the city was filled with followers who busied
themselves in proposing combinations and making promises which, for the greater part, could
not be traced to the candidates themselves. O'Neil's Tavern--graced by the vivacious "Peggy,"
who, as Mrs. John H. Eaton, was later to upset the equilibrium of the Jackson Administration--and
other favorite lodging houses were the scenes of midnight conferences, intimate conversations,
and mysterious comings and goings which kept their oldest and most sophisticated frequenters
on the alert. "Incedo super ignes--I walk over fires," confided the straitlaced Adams to his
diary, and not without reason. A group of Clay's friends came to the New Englander's room to
urge in somewhat veiled language that their chief be promised, in return for his support, a
place in the Cabinet. A Missouri representative who held the balance of power in his delegation
plainly offered to swing the State for Adams if the latter would agree to retain a brother
on the federal bench and be "reasonable" in the matter of patronage.

By the last week of January it was rather generally understood that Clay's strength would be
thrown to Adams. Up to this time the Jackson men had refused to believe that such a thing could
happen. But evidence had been piled mountain-high; adherents of both allies were openly boasting
of the arrangements that had been made. The Jacksonians were furious, and the air was filled
with recriminations. On January 28, 1825, an anonymous letter in the Columbian Observer of
Philadelphia made the direct charge that the agents of Clay had offered the Kentuckian's support
to both Jackson and Adams in return for an appointment as Secretary of State, and that, while
the friends of Jackson would not descend to "such mean barter and sale," a bargain with the
Adams forces had been duly closed. Clay's rage was ungovernable. Through the columns of the
National Intelligencer he pronounced his unknown antagonist "a base and infamous calumniator,
a dastard and a liar," called upon him to "unveil himself," and declared that he would hold
him responsible "to all the laws which govern and regulate men of honor."

Two days later an obscure Pennsylvania Congressman by the name of George Kremer tendered his
respects to "the Honorable H. Clay," avowed his authorship of the communication in question,
offered to prove the truth of his charges, and closed sententiously by affirming that as a
representative of the people he would "not fear to 'cry aloud and spare not' when their rights
and privileges are at stake." The matter was serious, but official Washington could hardly
repress a smile. Kremer was a thoroughly honest but grossly illiterate rustic busybody who
thus far had attracted the capital's attention mainly by reason of his curiously cut leopard-skin
overcoat. The real author of the charge seems to have been James Buchanan, and Kremer was simple-minded
and credulous enough to be made the catspaw in the business. Clay was taken aback. Kremer significantly
made no reference to the "code of honor"; and since a duel with such a personage would be an
absurdity, Clay substituted a request that the House make an immediate investigation of the
charges. A committee of seven was appointed. But when it summoned Kremer to give his testimony,
he refused to appear, on the ground--which in the present instance was a mere pretext--that
the House had no jurisdiction over the conduct of its members outside the chamber.

The truth of the matter is that Kremer was only a tool in the hands of the Jackson managers.
He admitted privately to members of the committee that he did not write the letter in the Observer,
and it was plain enough that he did not understand its purport. His promise to substantiate
its contents was made in a moment of surprise, because somebody had neglected to coach him
on the point.

Finding that it could make no headway, the committee reported the fact, on the 9th of February,
and the investigation was dropped. This was precisely what the Jackson managers wanted. Whatever
happened, Jackson would be the gainer. For a generation every public man had views on that
subject for which he was ready to fight; mid-century and later historians came to conclusions
of the most contradictory nature. The pros and cons are too complicated to be presented here,
but certain things are fairly clear. In two elaborate speeches Clay marshaled evidence that
before leaving Kentucky he decided to support Adams in preference to Jackson and Crawford.
This evidence did not convince the Jacksonians; but it could hardly have been expected to do
so, and nowadays it looks to be unimpeachable. Finally it is known that Adams gave some explicit
preëlection pledges, and that by doing so he drew some votes; but on the subject of an alliance
with Clay he is not known to have gone further than to say to a delegation of Clay supporters
that if elected by western votes he would naturally look to the West for much of the support
which his Administration would need. At noon, on the 9th of February, the Senate and House
met in joint session to witness the count of the electoral vote. Spectators packed the galleries
and overflowed into every available space. The first acts were of a purely formal nature. Then
the envelopes were opened; the votes were counted; Calhoun was declared elected to the vice
presidency; and it was announced that no candidate for the presidency had received a majority.
Then the senators withdrew, and the representatives addressed themselves to the task which
the Constitution devolved upon them. The members of each delegation took their seats together;
the vote of each State was placed in a separate box on a table; and Daniel Webster and John
Randolph, acting as tellers, opened the boxes and tabulated the results. No one expected the
first ballot to be decisive; indeed the friends of Crawford, who were present in large numbers,
were pinning their hopes to the possibility that after repeated ballotings the House would
break the deadlock between Jackson and Adams by turning to their candidate. A hush fell upon
the expectant assemblage as Webster rose to announce the result; and seasoned politicians could
hardly trust their ears when they heard: Adams, thirteen votes; Jackson, seven; Crawford, four.
An eleventh-hour change of mind by a New York representative had thrown the vote of that State
into the Adams column and had thereby assured the triumph of the New Englander.

That evening Jackson and Adams came face to face at a presidential levee, Jackson with a lady
on his right arm. Each man hesitated an instant, and spectators wondered what was going to
happen. But those who were looking for a sensation were disappointed. The reply came in clear
but icy tones: "Very well, sir; I hope General Jackson is well." It is the testimony of an
unprejudiced observer that of the two, the defeated Tenneseean bore himself more graciously
than the victorious New Englander.

CHAPTER V

THE DEMOCRATIC TRIUMPH

Monroe's Administration drew to a close in a mellow sunset of popular approval. But no prophetic
genius was required to foresee that clouds of discontent and controversy would hang heavy about
the head of his successor. Adams certainly did not expect it to be otherwise. "Prospects are
flattering for the immediate issue," he recorded in his diary shortly before the election,
"but the fearful condition of them is that success would open to a far severer trial than defeat."
The darkest forebodings were more than realized. No one of our chief executives, except possibly
Andrew Johnson, was ever the target of more relentless and vindictive attacks.

Adams was, in the first place, a minority President. Jackson's popular vote was probably larger;
his electoral vote was certainly so; and the vote in the House of Representatives was at the
last moment swung to Adams only by certain unexpected and more or less accidental developments.
By thus receiving his office at the hands of a branch of Congress, in competition with a candidate
who had a wider popular support, the New Englander fell heir to all the indignation that had
been aroused against congressional intrigue, and especially against the selection of a President
by Congressmen.

There was, in addition, the charge of a "corrupt bargain." It mattered not greatly whether
the accusation was true or not. The people widely accepted it as true, and the Administration
had to bear the stigma. "The coalition of Blifil and Black George, of the Puritan and the black-leg,"
John Randolph called the new alliance; and while Clay sought to vindicate his honor in a duel
with the author of the phrase, nothing that he or Adams could do or say was able to overcome
the effect upon the public mind created by the cold fact that when the Clay men turned their
support to Adams their leader was forthwith made Secretary of State.

A further source of difficulty in the situation was the temperament of Adams himself. There
was no abler, more honest, or more patriotic man in public life; yet in the presidency he was,
especially at this juncture of affairs, a misfit. He was cold and reserved when every consideration
called for cordiality; he was petulant when tolerance and good humor were the qualities most
needful. He could neither arouse enthusiasm nor win friends. He was large visioned and adept
at mapping out broad policies, but he lacked the elements of leadership requisite to carry
his plans into effect. He scorned the everyday arts of politics, and by the very loftiness
of his ideals he alienated support. In short, as one writer has remarked, he was "a weigher
of scruples and values in a time of transition, a representative of old-school politics on
the threshold of triumphant democracy. The people did not understand him, but they felt instinctively
that he was not one of themselves; and, therefore, they cast him out." Nobody had ever called
him "Old Hickory" or any other name indicative of popular endearment.

Clay's appointment as Secretary of State was thoroughly typical of the independent, unyielding
attitude of the new Administration. Adams had not the slightest sympathy with the idea of rotation
in public position: such a policy, he said, would make government "a perpetual and unremitting
scramble for office." He announced that there would be no removals except such as complaint
showed to be for the good of the service, and only twelve removals took place during his entire
term. The spoilsmen argued and fumed. The editor of an administration newspaper warmly told
the President that in consequence of his policy he would himself be removed as soon as the
term for which he had been elected had expired. But entreaties and threats were alike of no
avail. Even Clay could not get the removal of a naval officer guilty of unbecoming conduct.
In his zeal for nonpartizanship Adams fairly leaned backwards, with the result that incompetents
were shielded and the offices were left in the hands of men who, in a very large number of
cases, were openly hostile to the President and to his policies.

"Less possessed of your confidence in advance than any of my predecessors," wrote Adams in
his first message to Congress, "I am deeply conscious of the prospect that I shall stand more
and oftener in need of your indulgence." In the principles and measures which he urged upon
the legislative branch, none the less, he showed small regard for moderation or expediency.
He defined the object of government to be the improvement of the condition of the people, and
he refused to recognize in the federal Constitution restrictions which would prevent the national
authorities from fulfilling this function in the highest degree. He thought that the public
lands should be sold at the highest prices they would bring and that the money should be used
by the Government to promote the general welfare. He had no doubt of either the power or the
duty of the Government to maintain a national bank.

Since the War of 1812 the Republicans, with whom Adams had been numbered, had inclined strongly
toward a liberal construction of the Constitution, but none had gone to the limits marked out
in this program. Besides, a strong reaction was now setting in. The President's recommendations
were received in some quarters with astonishment, in some rather with amusement. Nowhere were
they regarded, in their entirety, with favor. Even Clay--spokesman of nationalism though he
was--could not follow his chief in his untrammeled flights. Men still widely believed that,
the National Government ought to spend money freely on highways, canals, and other improvements.
But by his bold avowals Adams characteristically threw away support for both himself and his
cause; and the era of federal initiative and management was thus hastened toward its close.

No one who knew Jackson and his political managers expected them to accept the anomalous electoral
results of 1825 as expressing the real will of the nation, and it was a foregone conclusion
not only that the General would again be a candidate, but that the campaign of 1828 would at
once begin. The defeated Senator remained in Washington long enough to present himself at the
White House on Inauguration Day and felicitate his successful rival. Then he set out on the
long journey homeward. Every town through Pennsylvania and along the Ohio turned out en masse
to greet him, and at Nashville he was given a prodigious reception. To friends and traveling
companions he talked constantly about the election, leaving no doubt of his conviction that
he had been defeated by intrigue. To a sympathetic group of passengers traveling down the Ohio
with him on board the General Neville he declared emphatically that, if he had been willing
to make the same promises and offers to Clay that Adams had made, he would that minute be in
the presidential chair. If he should yet attain that dignity, he added significantly, he would
do it "with clean hands." It is reported that as he spoke there was in his eye the fire of
determination, such as his soldiers had seen there as he strode up and down the breastworks
at New Orleans.

To this point Jackson had sought the presidency rather at the instigation of his friends than
because of personal desire for the office. Now all was changed. The people had expressed their
preference for him, and their will had been thwarted. Henceforth he was moved by an inflexible
purpose to vindicate both his own right to the position and the right of his fellow citizens
to choose their chief executive without hindrance. In this determination he was warmly backed
up by his neighbors and advisers, and the machinery for a long, systematic, and resistless
campaign was speedily put into running order. One group of managers took charge in Washington.
Another set to work in New York. A third undertook to keep Pennsylvania in line. A fourth began
to consolidate support in the South. At the capital the United States Telegraph, edited by
Duff Green of Missouri, was established as a Jackson organ, and throughout the country friendly
journals were set the task of keeping up an incessant fire upon the Administration and of holding
the Jackson men together. Local committees were organized; pamphlets and handbills were put
into circulation; receptions and public dinners were exploited, whenever possible, in the interest
of the cause. First, last, and always, Jackson's candidacy was put forward as the hope and
opportunity of the plain people as against the politicians.

In October the Tennessee Legislature again placed its favorite formally in nomination, and
a few days later the candidate resigned his seat in the Senate in order to be more advantageously
situated for carrying on his campaign. For more than a year he remained quietly at the Hermitage,
dividing his attention between his blooded horses and dogs and his political interests. Lewis
stayed at his side, partly to restrain him from outbreaks of temper or other acts that might
injure his interests, partly to serve as an intermediary between him and the Washington manipulators.

Before Adams had been in the White House six months the country was divided substantially into
Jackson men and anti-Jackson or administration men. The elements from which Jackson drew support
were many and discordant. The backbone of his strength was the self-assertive, ambitious western
Democracy, which recognized in him its truest and most eminent representative. The alliance
with the Calhoun forces was kept up, although it was already jeopardized by the feeling of
the South Carolinian's friends that they, and not Jackson's friends, should lead in the coming
campaign. After a good deal of hesitation the supporters of Crawford came over also. Van Buren
coquetted with the Adams forces for a year, and the old-line Republicans, strong in the Jeffersonian
faith, brought themselves to the support of the Tenneseean with difficulty; but eventually
both northern and southern wings of the Crawford contingent alined themselves against the Administration.
The decision of Van Buren brought into the Jackson ranks a past master in party management,
"the cleverest politician in a State in which the sort of politics that is concerned with the
securing of elections rather than fighting for principles had grown into a science and an art."
By 1826 the Jackson forces were welded into a substantial party, although for a long time their
principles involved little more than hostility to Adams and enthusiasm for Jackson, and they
bore no other designation than Jackson men.

The elements that were left to support the Administration were the followers of Adams and Clay.
These eventually drew together under the name of National Republicans. Their strength, however,
was limited, for Adams could make no appeal to the masses, even in New England; while Clay,
by contributing to Jackson's defeat, had forfeited much of the popularity that would otherwise
have been his.

If the story of Adams's Administration could be told in detail, it would be one long record
of rancorous warfare between the President and the Jacksonian opposition in Congress. Adams,
on the one hand, held inflexibly to his course, advocating policies and recommending measures
which he knew had not the remotest chance of adoption; and, on the other hand, the opposition--which
in the last two years of the Administration controlled the Senate as well as the House of Representatives--balked
at no act that would humiliate the President and make capital for its western idol. At the
outset the Jacksonians tried to hold up the confirmation of Clay. It fell furiously, and quite
without discrimination, upon the President's great scheme of national improvements, professing
to see in it evidence of an insatiable desire for "concentration." In the discussion of a proposed
amendment to the Constitution providing for direct election of the President by the people
it was constantly assumed and frequently stated that Adams had no moral right to the position
which he occupied. The President's decision to send delegates to the Panama Congress of 1826
raised a storm of acrimonious debate and brought the Administration's enemies into closer unison.
To cap the climax, Adams was solemnly charged with abuse of the federal patronage, and in the
Senate six bills for the remedy of the President's pernicious practices were brought in by
Benton in a single batch! Adams was able and honest, but he got no credit from his opponents
for these qualities. He, in turn, displayed little magnanimity; and in refusing to shape his
policies and methods to meet the conditions under which he had to work, he fell short of the
highest statesmanship.

As election year approached, it became clear that the people would at last have an opportunity
to make a direct choice between Adams and Jackson. Each candidate was formally nominated by
sundry legislatures and other bodies; no one so much as suggested nomination by congressional
caucus. In the early months of 1828 the campaign rapidly rose to an extraordinary level of
vigor and public interest. Each party group became bitter and personal in its attacks upon
the other; in our entire political history there have been not more than two or three campaigns
so smirched with vituperation and abuse. The Jackson papers and stump speakers laid great stress
on Adams's aristocratic temperament, denounced his policies as President, and exploited the
"corrupt bargain" charge with all possible ingenuity.

On the other hand, the Adams-Clay forces dragged forth in long array Jackson's quarrels, duels,
and rough-and-tumble encounters to prove that he was not fit to be President; they distributed
handbills decorated with coffins bearing the names of the candidate's victims; they cited scores
of actions, from the execution of mutinous militiamen in the Creek War to the quarrel with
Callava, to show his arbitrary disposition; and they strove in a most malicious manner to undermine
his popularity by breaking down his personal reputation, and even that of his wife and of his
mother. It has been said that "the reader of old newspaper files and pamphlet collections of
the Adamsite persuasion, in the absence of other knowledge, would gather that Jackson was a
usurper, an adulterer, a gambler, a cock-fighter, a brawler, a drunkard, and withal a murderer
of the most cruel and blood-thirsty description." Issues--tariff, internal improvements, foreign
policy, slavery--receded into the background; the campaign became for all practical purposes
a personal contest between the Tennessee soldier and the two statesmen whom he accused of bargain
and corruption. "Hurrah for Jackson!" was the beginning and end of the creed of the masses
bent on the Tenneseean's election.

Jackson never wearied of saying that he was "no politician." He was, none the less, one of
the most forceful and successful politicians that the country has known. He was fortunate in
being able to personify a cause which was grounded deeply in the feelings and opinions of the
people, and also in being able to command the services of a large group of tireless and skillful
national and local managers. He was willing to leave to these managers the infinite details
of his campaign. But he kept in close touch with them and their subordinates, and upon occasion
he did not hesitate to take personal command. In politics, as in war, he was imperious; persons
not willing to support him with all their might, and without question or quibble, he preferred
to see on the other side. Throughout the campaign his opponents hoped, and his friends feared,
that he would commit some deed of anger that would ruin his chances of election. The temptation
was strong, especially when the circumstances of his marriage were dragged into the controversy.
But while he chafed inwardly, and sometimes expressed himself with more force than elegance
in the presence of his friends, he maintained an outward calm and dignity. His bitterest feeling
was reserved for Clay, who was known to be the chief inspirer of the National Republicans'
mud-slinging campaign. But he felt that Adams had it in his power to put a stop to the slanders
that were set in circulation, had he cared to do so.

As the campaign drew to a close, circumstances pointed with increasing sureness to the triumph
of the Jackson forces. Adams, foreseeing the end, found solace in harsh and sometimes picturesque
entries in his diary. A group of opposition Congressmen he pronounced "skunks of party slander."
Calhoun he described as "stimulated to frenzy by success, flattery, and premature advancement;
governed by no steady principle, but sagacious to seize upon every prevailing popular breeze
to swell his own sails." Clay, likewise, became petulant and gloomy. In the last two months
of the canvass Jackson ordered a general onslaught upon Kentucky, and when finally it was affirmed
that the State had been "carried out from under" its accustomed master, Clay knew only too
well that the boast was true. To Adams's assurances that after four years of Jackson the country
would gladly turn to the Kentuckian, the latter could only reply that there would, indeed,
be a reaction, but that before another President would be taken from the West he would be too
old; and it was with difficulty that Adams persuaded him not to retire immediately from the
Cabinet.

The results of the contest fully bore out the apprehensions of the Administration. Jackson
received nearly 140,000 more popular votes than Adams and carried every State south of the
Potomac and west of the Alleghanies. He carried Pennsylvania also by a vote of two to one and
divided about equally with his opponent the votes of New York and Maryland. Only New England
held fast for Adams. As one writer has facetiously remarked, "It took a New England conscience
to hold a follower in line for the New England candidate." The total electoral vote was 178
for Jackson and 83 for Adams. Calhoun was easily reelected to the vice presidency. Both branches
of Congress remained under the control of Jackson's partizans.

Months before the election, congratulatory messages began to pour into the Hermitage. Some
came from old friends and disinterested well-wishers, many from prospective seekers of office
or of other favors. Influential people in the East, and especially at the capital, hastened
to express their desire to be of service to the Jacksons in the new life to which they were
about to be called. In the list one notes with interest the names of General Thomas Cadwalader
of Philadelphia, salaried lobbyist for the United States Bank, and Senator Robert Y. Hayne,
the future South Carolina nullifier.

Returns sufficiently complete to leave no doubt of Jackson's election reached the Hermitage
on the 9th of December. That afternoon, Lewis, Carroll, and a few other members of the "general
headquarters staff" gathered at the Jackson home to review the situation and look over the
bulky correspondence that had come in. "General Jackson," reports Lewis, "showed no elation.
In fact, he had for some time considered his election certain, the only question in his mind
being the extent of the majority. When he finished looking over the summary by States, his
only remark was that Isaac Hill, considering the odds against him, had done wonders in New
Hampshire!"

When, two weeks later, the final returns were received, leading Tenneseeans decided to give
a reception, banquet, and ball which would outshine any social occasion in the annals of the
Southwest. Just as arrangements were completed, however, Mrs. Jackson, who had long been in
failing health, suffered an attack of heart trouble; and at the very hour when the General
was to have been received, amid all the trappings of civil and military splendor, with the
huzzas of his neighbors, friends, and admirers, he was sitting tearless, speechless, and almost
expressionless by the corpse of his life companion. Long after the beloved one had been laid
to rest in the Hermitage garden amid the rosebushes she had planted, the President-elect continued
as one benumbed. He never gave up the idea that his wife had been killed by worry over the
attacks made upon him and upon her by the Adams newspapers--that, as he expressed it, she was
"murdered by slanders that pierced her heart." Only under continued prodding from Lewis and
other friends did he recall himself to his great task and set about preparing for the arduous
winter journey to Washington, composing his inaugural address, selecting his Cabinet, and laying
plans for the reorganization of the federal Civil Service on lines already definitely in his mind.

CHAPTER VI

THE "REIGN" BEGINS

Jackson's election to the presidency in 1828 was correctly described by Senator Benton as "a
triumph of democratic principle, and an assertion of the people's right to govern themselves."
Jefferson in his day was a candidate of the masses, and his triumph over John Adams in 1800
was received with great public acclaim. Yet the Virginian was at best an aristocratic sort
of democrat; he was never in the fullest sense a man of the people. Neither Madison nor Monroe
inspired enthusiasm, and for John Quincy Adams even New Englanders voted, as Ezekiel Webster
confessed, from a cold sense of duty. Jackson was, as no President before him, the choice of
the masses. His popular vote in 1824 revealed not only his personal popularity but the growing
power of the democratic elements in the nation, and his defeat in the House of Representatives
only strengthened his own and the people's determination to be finally victorious. The untrained,
self-willed, passionate frontier soldier came to power in 1828 as the standard bearer of a
mighty democratic uprising which was destined before it ran its course to break down oligarchical
party organizations, to liberalize state and local governments, and to turn the stream of national
politics into wholly new channels. It was futile for men of the old school to protest and to
prophesy misfortune for the country under its new rulers. The people had spoken, and this time
the people's will was not to be denied.

Still haggard from his recent personal loss, the President-elect set out for Washington, at
the middle of January, 1829. With him went his nephew, Andrew Jackson Donelson, who was to
be his private secretary; Mrs. Donelson, who was to preside over the executive mansion; an
accomplished niece of Mrs. Jackson, who was to be of social assistance; an artist by the name
of Earl, who resided at the White House throughout Jackson's two Administrations, engaged continually
in painting portraits of the General; and, finally, the faithful Major Lewis, whose intention
was merely to attend the inauguration and then return to his plantation. The puffing little
steamboat on which the party traveled down the Cumberland and up the Ohio was saluted and cheered
a hundred times a day; at Louisville, Cincinnati, and Pittsburgh there were great outpourings
of demonstrative citizens. Duff Green, one of the party managers, proposed that a great cavalcade
should meet the victor at Pittsburgh and escort him by relays to the capital. On Van Buren's
advice the plan was abandoned. But as the party passed along the National Road toward its destination
it was accorded an ovation which left nothing to be desired as an evidence of the public favor.

Arrived in Washington, on the 11th of February--the day on which the electoral votes were counted
in the Senate--Jackson and his friends found temporary lodgings at the Indian Queen Tavern,
commonly known as "the Wigwam." During the next three weeks the old inn was the scene of unwonted
activity. Office seekers besieged it morning, noon, and night; politicians came to ask favors
or give advice; exponents of every sort of cause watched for opportunities to obtain promises
of presidential support; scores of the curious came with no other purpose than to see what
a backwoods President looked like. "The city is full of speculation and speculators," wrote
Daniel Webster to his sister-in-law a few days after Jackson's arrival; "a great multitude,
too many to be fed without a miracle, are already in the city, hungry for office. Especially,
I learn that the typographical corps is assembled in great force. From New Hampshire, our friend
Hill; from Boston, Mr. Greene ... and from everywhere else somebody else. So many friends ready
to advise, and whose advice is so disinterested, make somewhat of a numerous council about
the President-elect; and, if report be true, it is a council which only makes that darker which
was dark enough before."

To all, Jackson was accessible. But he was not communicative, and up to Inauguration Day people
were left to speculate not only upon the truth of the rumor that there was to be a "full sweep"
in the offices but upon the new Administration's attitude on public questions in general. Even
Isaac Hill, a warm friend and supporter, was obliged to write to an acquaintance four days
before the inauguration that Jackson had little to say about the future, "except in a general
way." The men with whom the Executive-elect was daily closeted were Major Lewis and Senators
Eaton and White. Van Buren would have been of the number, had not his recently assumed duties
as Governor kept him at Albany. He was ably represented, however, by James A. Hamilton, a son
of Alexander Hamilton, to whose correspondence we owe most of what we know about the laying
of the plans for the new Administration.

The most pressing question was the personnel of the Cabinet. Upon only one appointment was
Jackson fully determined when he reached Washington: Van Buren was to be Secretary of State.
The "little magician" had been influential in turning New York from Crawford to Jackson; he
had resigned his seat in the Senate and run for the governorship with a view to uniting the
party for Jackson's benefit; he was the cleverest politician and, next to Calhoun, the ablest
man, in the Democratic ranks. When offered the chief place in the Cabinet he promptly accepted.
Edward Livingston was given his choice of the remaining positions, but preferred to accept
an election to the Senate. With due regard for personal susceptibilities and sectional interests,
the list was then completed. A Pennsylvania Congressman Samuel D. Ingham, became Secretary
of the Treasury; Senator John H. Eaton was made Secretary of War; a Calhoun supporter from
North Carolina, John Branch, was given the Navy portfolio; Senator John M. Berrien of Georgia
became Attorney-General; and William T. Barry of Kentucky was appointed Postmaster-General,
after the incumbent, John McLean, refused to accept the policy of a clean slate in the department.
The appointments were kept secret until one week before the inauguration, when they were announced
in the party organ at the capital, Duff Green's United States Telegraph.

Everywhere the list caused consternation. Van Buren's was the only name of distinction in it;
and only one of the appointees had had experience in the administration of national affairs.
Hamilton pronounced the group "the most unintellectual Cabinet we ever had." Van Buren doubted
whether he ought to have accepted a seat in such company. A crowning expression of dissatisfaction
came from the Tennessee delegation in Congress, which formally protested against the appointment
of Eaton. But the President-elect was not to be swayed. His ideas of administrative efficiency
were not highly developed, and he believed that his Cabinet would prove equal to all demands
made upon it. Not the least of its virtues in his eyes was the fact that, although nearly evenly
divided between his own followers and the friends of Calhoun, it contained not one person who
was not an uncompromising anti-Clay man.

Meanwhile a motley army of office seekers, personal friends, and sightseers--to the number
of ten or fifteen thousand--poured into Washington to see the old regime of Virginia, New York,
and Massachusetts go out and the new regime of the people come in. "A monstrous crowd of people,"
wrote Webster on Inauguration Day, "is in the city. I never saw anything like it before. Another
observer, who was also not a Jacksonian, wrote[7]:

"No one who was in Washington at the time of General Jackson's inauguration is likely to forget
that period to the day of his death. To us, who had witnessed the quiet and orderly period
of the Adams Administration, it seemed as if half the nation had rushed at once into the capital.
It was like the inundation of the northern barbarians into Rome, save that the tumultuous tide
came in from a different point of the compass. The West and the South seemed to have precipitated
themselves upon the North and overwhelmed it....

"Strange faces filled every public place, and every face seemed to bear defiance on its brow.
It appeared to me that every Jackson editor in the country was on the spot. They swarmed, especially
in the lobbies of the House, an expectant host, a sort of Praetorian band, which, having borne
in upon their shields their idolized leader, claimed the reward of the hard-fought contest."

The 4th of March dawned clear and balmy. "By ten o'clock," says an eye-witness, "the Avenue
was crowded with carriages of every description, from the splendid baronet and coach, down
to wagons and carts, filled with women and children, some in finery and some in rags, for it
was the People's president." The great square which now separates the Capitol and the Library
of Congress was in Jackson's day shut in by a picket fence. This enclosure was filled with
people--"a vast agitated sea"--while in all directions the slopes of Capitol Hill were thickly
occupied. At noon watchers on the west portico, looking down Pennsylvania Avenue, saw a group
of gentlemen issue from the Indian Queen and thread its way slowly up the hill. All wore their
hats except one tall, dignified, white-haired figure in the middle, who was quickly recognized
as Jackson. Passing through the building, the party, reinforced by Chief Justice Marshall and
certain other dignitaries, emerged upon the east portico, amid the deafening cheers of the
spectators. The President-elect bowed gravely, and, stepping forward to a small cloth-covered
table, read in a low voice the inaugural address; the aged Chief Justice, "whose life was a
protest against the political views of the Jackson party," administered the oath of office;
and the ceremony was brought to a close in the customary manner by the new Executive kissing
the Bible. Francis Scott Key, watching the scene from one of the gates, was moved to exclaim:
"It is beautiful, it is sublime."

Thus far the people had been sufficiently impressed by the dignity of the occasion to keep
their places and preserve a reasonable silence. But when the executive party started to withdraw,
men, women, and children rushed past the police and scrambled up the steps in a wild effort
to reach their adored leader and grasp his hand. Disheveled and panting, the President finally
reached a gate at which his horse was in waiting; and, mounting with difficulty, he set off
for the White House, followed by a promiscuous multitude, "countrymen, farmers, gentlemen,
mounted and unmounted, boys, women, and children, black and white."

The late President had no part in the day's proceedings. On arriving in Washington, Jackson
had refused to make the usual call of the incoming upon the outgoing Executive, mainly because
he held Adams responsible for the news paper virulence which had caused Mrs. Jackson such distress
and had possibly shortened her life. Deserted by all save his most intimate friends, the New
Englander faced the last hours of his Administration in bitterness. His diary bears ample evidence
of his ill-humor and chagrin. On the 3d of March he took up his residence on Meridian Hill,
near the western limits of the city; and thence he did not venture until the festivities of
the ensuing day were ended. No amount of effort on the part of mediators ever availed to bring
about a reconciliation between him and his successor.

According to custom, the inaugural program came to an end with a reception at the White House;
and arrangements were made to entertain a large number of guests. Police control, however,
proved wholly inadequate, and when the throng that followed the President up the Avenue reached
the executive grounds it engulfed the mansion and poured in by windows as well as doors, until
the reception rooms were packed to suffocation. Other guests, bidden and unbidden--"statesmen
and stable-boys, fine ladies and washerwomen, white people and blacks"--continued for hours
to besiege the doors. "I never saw such a mixture," records Judge Story; "the reign of King
Mob seemed triumphant. I was glad to escape from the scene as soon as possible." The President,
too, after being jostled for an hour, very willingly made his way by a side entrance to the
street and thence to his hotel.

A profusion of refreshments, including barrels of orange punch, had been provided; and an attempt
to serve the guests led to a veritable saturnalia. Waiters emerging from doors with loaded
trays were borne to the floor by the crush; china and glassware were smashed; gallons of punch
were spilled on the carpets; in their eagerness to be served men in muddy boots leaped upon
damask-covered chairs, overturned tables, and brushed bric-à-brac from mantles and walls. "It
would have done Mr. Wilberforce's heart good," writes a cynical observer, "to have seen a stout
black wench eating in this free country a jelly with a gold spoon at the President's House."
Only when some thoughtful person directed that tubs of punch be placed here and there on the
lawn was the congestion indoors relieved. When it was all over, the White House resembled a
pigsty. "Several thousand dollars' worth of broken china and cut glass and many bleeding noses
attested the fierceness of the struggle." It was the people's day, and it was of no avail for
fastidious Adamsites to lift their eyebrows in ridicule or scorn.

Those in whom the establishment of the new order aroused keenest apprehension were the officeholders.
A favorite theme of the Jackson forces during the late campaign was the abuses of the patronage,
and the General came into office fully convinced that an overhauling of the civil service would
be one of the greatest contributions that he could make to his country's welfare. Even if he
had been less sure of this than he was, the pressure which office seekers and their friends
brought to bear upon him would have been irresistible. Four-fifths of the people who flocked
to Washington at inauguration time were seekers after office for themselves or their friends,
and from every county and town the country over came pleas of service rendered and claims for
reward. But Jackson needed little urging. He thought, and rightly, that many of the incumbents
had grown lax in the performance of their duties, if indeed they had ever been anything else,
and that fresh blood was needed in the government employ. He believed that short terms and
rapid rotation made for alertness and efficiency. He felt that one man had as much right to
public office as another, and he was so unacquainted with the tasks of administration as to
suppose all honest citizens equally capable of serving their fellowmen in public station. As
for the grievances of persons removed, his view was that "no individual wrong is done by removal,
since neither appointment to nor continuance in office is a matter of right."

Shortly after the election Major Lewis wrote to a friend that the General was "resolved on
making a pretty clean sweep of the departments." It is expected, he added, that "he will cleanse
the Augean stables, and I feel pretty confident that he will not disappoint the popular expectation
in this particular." If a complete overturn was ever really contemplated, the plan was not
followed up; and it is more than possible that it was Van Buren who marked off the limits beyond
which it would not be expedient to go. None the less, Jackson's removals far exceeded those
made by his predecessors. Speaking broadly, the power of removal had never yet been exercised
in the Federal Government with offensive partizanship. Even under Jefferson, when the holders
of half of the offices were changed in the space of four years, there were few removals for
political reasons.

No sooner was Jackson in office, however, than wholesale proscription began. The ax fell in
every department and bureau, and cut off chiefs and clerks with equal lack of mercy. Age and
experience counted rather against a man than in his favor, and rarely was any reason given
for removal other than that some one else wanted the place. When Congress met, in December,
it was estimated that a thousand persons had been ousted; and during the first year of the
Administration the number is said to have reached two thousand. The Post-Office Department
and the Customs Service were purged with special severity. The sole principle on which the
new appointees were selected was loyalty to Jackson. Practically all were inexperienced, most
were incompetent, and several proved dishonest.

"There has been," wrote the President in his journal a few weeks after the inauguration, "a
great noise made about removals." Protest arose not only from the proscribed and their friends,
but from the Adams-Clay forces generally, and even from some of the more moderate Jacksonians.
"Were it not for the outdoor popularity of General Jackson," wrote Webster, "the Senate would
have negatived more than half his nominations." As it was, many were rejected; and some of
the worst were, under pressure, withdrawn. On the general principle the President held his
ground. "It is rotation in office," he again and again asserted in all honesty, "that will
perpetuate our liberty," and from this conviction no amount of argument or painful experience
could shake him. After 1830 one hears less about the subject, but only because the novelty
and glamor of the new regime had worn off.

Jackson was not the author of the spoils system. The device of using the offices as rewards
for political service had long been familiar in the state and local governments, notably in
New York. What Jackson and his friends did was simply to carry over the spoils principle into
the National Government. No more unfortunate step was ever taken by an American President;
the task of undoing the mischief has been long and laborious. Yet the spoils system was probably
an inevitable feature of the new rule of the people; at all events, it was accepted by all
parties and sanctioned by public sentiment for more than half a century.

Like Philip II of Spain, who worked twelve hours a day at the business of being a King, Jackson
took the duties of his exalted post very seriously. No man had ever accused him of laxness
in public office, civil or military; on the contrary, his superiors commonly considered themselves
fortunate if they could induce or compel him to keep his energies within reasonable bounds.
As President he was not without distressing shortcomings. He was self-willed, prejudiced, credulous,
petulant. But he was honest, and he was industrious. No President ever kept a closer watch
upon Congress to see that the rights of the executive were not invaded or the will of the people
thwarted; and his vigilance was rewarded, not only by his success in vindicating the independence
of the executive in a conflict whose effects are felt to this day, but by the very respectable
amount of legislation which he contrived to obtain in the furtherance of what he believed to
be the public welfare. When a rebellious Congress took the bit in its teeth, he never hesitated
to crack the whip over its head. Sometimes the pressure was applied indirectly, but with none
the less effect. One of the first acts of the Senate to arouse strong feelings in the White
House was the rejection of the nomination of Isaac Hill to be Second Comptroller of the Treasury.
A New Hampshire senatorship soon falling vacant, the President deftly brought about the election
of Hill to the position; and many a gala hour he had in later days as Lewis and other witnesses
described the chagrin of the senators at being obliged to accept as one of their colleagues
a man whom they had adjudged unfit for a less important office.

Much thought had been bestowed upon the composition of the Cabinet, and some of the President's
warmest supporters urged that he should make use of the group as a council of state, after
the manner of his predecessors. Jackson's purposes, however, ran in a different direction.
He had been on intimate terms with fewer than half of the members, and he saw no reason why
these men, some of whom were primarily the friends of Calhoun, should be allowed to supplant
old confidants like Lewis. Let them, he reasoned, go about their appointed tasks as heads of
the administrative departments, while he looked for counsel whithersoever he desired. Hence
the official Cabinet fell into the background, and after a few weeks the practice of holding
meetings was dropped.

As advisers on party affairs and on matters of general policy the President drew about himself
a heterogeneous group of men which the public-labeled the "Kitchen Cabinet." Included in the
number were the two members of the regular Cabinet in whom Jackson had implicit confidence,
Van Buren and Eaton. Isaac Hill was a member. Amos Kendall, a New Englander who had lately
edited a Jackson paper in Kentucky, and who now found his reward in the fourth auditorship
of the Treasury, was another. William B. Lewis, prevailed upon by Jackson to accept another
auditorship along with Kendall, rather than to follow out his original intention to return
to his Tennessee plantation, was not only in the Kitchen Cabinet but was also a member of the
President's household. Duff Green, editor of the Telegraph, and A. J. Donelson, the President's
nephew and secretary, were included in the group; as was also Francis P. Blair after, in 1830,
he became editor of the new administration organ, the Globe. It was the popular impression
that the influence of these men, especially of Lewis and Kendall, was very great--that, indeed,
they virtually ruled the country. There was some truth in the supposition. In matters upon
which his mind was not fully made up, Jackson was easily swayed; and his most intimate "Kitchen"
advisers were adepts at playing upon his likes and dislikes. He, however, always resented the
insinuation that he was not his own master, and all testimony goes to show that when he was
once resolved upon a given course his friends were just as powerless to stop him as were his
enemies.

The Jacksonians were carried into office on a great wave of popular enthusiasm, an for the
time being all the powers of government were theirs. None the less, their position was imperiled
almost from the beginning by a breach within the administration ranks. Calhoun had contented
himself with reelection to the vice presidency in 1828 on the understanding that, after Jackson
should have had one term, the road to the White House would be left clear for himself. Probably
Jackson, when elected, fully expected Calhoun to be his successor. Before long, however, the
South Carolinian was given ground for apprehension. Men began to talk about a second term for
Jackson, and the White House gave no indication of disapproval. Even more disconcerting was
the large place taken in the new regime by Van Buren. The "little magician" held the chief
post in the Cabinet; he was in the confidence of the President as Calhoun was not; there were
multiplying indications that he was aiming at the presidency; and if he were to enter the race
he would be hard to beat, for by general admission he was the country's most astute politician.
With every month that passed the Vice President's star was in graver danger of eclipse.

Several curious circumstances worked together to widen the breach between the Calhoun and Van
Buren elements and at the same time to bring the President definitely into the ranks of the
New Yorker's supporters. One was the controversy over the social status of "Peggy" Eaton. Peggy
was the daughter of a tavern keeper, William O'Neil, at whose hostelry both Jackson and Eaton
had lived when they were senators. Her first husband, a purser in the navy, committed suicide
at sea; and Washington gossips said that he was driven to the act by chagrin caused by his
wife's misconduct, both before and after her marriage. On the eve of Jackson's inauguration
the widow became Mrs. Eaton, and certain disagreeable rumors connecting the names of the two
were confirmed in the public mind. When Eaton was made Secretary of War, society shrugged its
shoulders and wondered what sort of figure "Peg O'Neil" would cut in Cabinet circles. The question
was soon answered. At the first official functions Mrs. Eaton was received with studied neglect
by the wives of the other Cabinet officers; and all refused either to call on her or to receive
her in their homes.

Jackson was furious. It was enough for him that Mrs. Jackson had thought well of the suspected
woman, and all his gallantry rose in her defense. Professing to regard the attitude of the
protesters as nothing less than an affront to his Administration, he called upon the men of
the Cabinet, and upon the Vice President, to remonstrate with their wives in Mrs. Eaton's behalf.
But if any such remonstrances were made, nothing came of them. "For once in his life, Andrew
Jackson was defeated. Creeks and Spaniards and Redcoats he could conquer, but the ladies of
Washington never surrendered, and Peggy Eaton though her affairs became a national question,
never got into Washington society."[8] The political effect of the episode was considerable.
Van Buren was a widower, and, having no family to object, he showed Mrs. Eaton all possible
courtesy. On the other hand, Mrs. Calhoun was the leader of those who refused Mrs. Eaton recognition.
Jackson was not slow to note these facts, and his opinion of Van Buren steadily rose, while
he set down Calhoun as an obdurate member of the "conspiracy."

Throughout the winter of 1829-30 the Calhoun and Van Buren factions kept up a contest which
daily became more acrimonious and open. Already the clique around the President had secretly
decided that in 1832 he must run again, with Van Buren as a mate, and that the New Yorker should
be the presidential candidate in 1836. Though irritated by the Vice President's conduct in
the Eaton affair and in other matters, Jackson threw over the understanding of 1828 with reluctance.
Even when, on the last day of 1829, his friends, alarmed by the state of his health, persuaded
him to write a letter to a Tennessee judge warmly commending Van Buren and expressing grave
doubts about the South Carolinian--a statement which, in the event of worst fears being realized,
would be of the utmost value to the Van Buren men--he was unwilling to go the full length of
an open break.

But Lewis and his coworkers were craftily laying the train of powder that would lead to an
explosion, and in the spring of 1830 they were ready to apply the match. When the President
had been worked up to the right stage of suspicion, it was suddenly made known to him that
it was Calhoun, not Crawford, who in Monroe's Cabinet circle in 1818 had urged that the conqueror
of Florida be censured for his bold deeds. This had the full effect desired. Jackson made a
peremptory demand upon the Vice President for an explanation of his perfidy. Calhoun responded
in a letter which explained and explained, yet got nowhere. Whereupon Jackson replied in a
haughty communication, manifestly prepared by the men who were engineering the whole business,
declaring the former Secretary guilty of the most reprehensible duplicity and severing all
relations with him. This meant the end of Calhoun's hopes, at all events for the present. He
could never be President while Jackson's influence lasted. Van Buren had won; and the embittered
South Carolinian could only turn for solace to the nullification movement, in which he was
already deeply engulfed.

Pursuing their plans to the final stroke, the Administration managers forced a reconstruction
of the Cabinet, and all of Calhoun's supporters were displaced. Louis McLane of Delaware became
Secretary of the Treasury; Lewis Cass of Michigan, Secretary of War; Levi Woodbury of New Hampshire,
Secretary of the Navy; and Roger B. Taney of Maryland, Attorney-General. Van Buren also retired,
in conformity with Jackson's announced intention not to have any one in the Cabinet who was
a candidate for the succession; and Edward Livingston, Jackson's old Louisiana friend, became
Secretary of State.

It was decided that a fitting post for a successor while awaiting his turn--particularly for
one who was not popular--would be the ministership to Great Britain; and Van Buren duly traveled
to London to take up the duties of this position. But when the appointment was submitted to
the Senate, Calhoun's friends adroitly managed matters so that the Vice President should have
the satisfaction of preventing confirmation by his casting vote. "It will kill him, sir, kill
him dead," declared the vengeful South Carolinian to a doubting friend. "He will never kick,
sir, never kick." But no greater tactical error could have been committed. Benton showed the
keener insight when he informed the jubilant Calhoun men that they had "broken a minister,"
only to elect a Vice President.

CHAPTER VII

THE WEBSTER-HAYNE DEBATE

The United States came out of her second war with Great Britain a proud and fearless nation,
though her record was not, on its face, glorious. She went to war shockingly unprepared; the
people were of divided opinion, and one great section was in open revolt; the military leaders
were without distinction; the soldiery was poorly trained and equipped; finances were disordered;
the operations on land were mostly failures; and the privateers, which achieved wonders in
the early stages of the contest, were driven to cover long before the close; for the restoration
of peace the nation had to thank England's war weariness far more than her own successes; and
the Treaty of Ghent did not so much as mention impressment, captures, or any of the other matters
mainly at issue when the war was begun. Peace, however, brought gratitude, enthusiasm, optimism.
Defeats were quickly forgotten; and Jackson's victory at New Orleans atoned for the humiliations
of years. After all, the contest had been victorious in its larger outcome, for the new world
conditions were such as to insure that the claims and practices which had troubled the relations
of the United States and Great Britain would never be revived. The carpings of critics were
drowned in the public rejoicings. The Hartford Convention dissolved unwept and unsung. Flushed
with pride and confidence, the country entered upon a new and richer epoch.

The dominant tone of this dawning period was nationalism. The nation was to be made great and
rich and free; sectional interests and ambitions were to be merged in the greater national
purpose. Congress voiced the sentiment of the day by freely laying tariffs to protect newly
risen manufactures, by appropriating money for "internal improvements," by establishing a second
United States Bank, and by giving full support to the annexation of territory for the adjustment
of border difficulties and the extension of the country to its natural frontiers.

Under the leadership of John Marshall, the Supreme Court handed down an imposing series of
decisions restricting the powers of the States and throwing open the floodgates for the expansion
of national functions and activities. Statesmen of all sections put the nation first in their
plans and policies as they had not always done in earlier days. John C. Calhoun was destined
shortly to take rank as the greatest of sectionalists. Nevertheless, between 1815 and 1820
he voted for protective tariffs, brought in a great bill for internal improvements, and won
from John Quincy Adams praise for being "above all sectional...prejudices more than any other
statesman of this union" with whom he "had ever acted."

The differences between the nationalist and state rights schools were, however, deep-rooted--altogether
too fundamental to be obliterated by even the nationalizing swing of the war period; and in
a brief time the old controversy of Hamilton and Jefferson was renewed on the former lines.
The pull of political tradition and of sectional interest was too strong to be resisted. In
the commercial and industrial East tradition and interest supported, in general, the doctrine
of broad national powers; and the same was true of the West and Northwest. The South, however,
inclined to limited national powers, large functions for the States, and such a construction
of the Constitution as would give the benefit of the doubt in all cases to the States.

The political theory current south of the Potomac and the Ohio made of state rights a fetish.
Yet the powerful sectional reaction which set in after 1820 against the nationalizing tendency
had as its main impetus the injustice which the Southern people felt had been done to them
through the use of the nation's larger powers. They objected to the protective tariff as a
device which not only brought the South no benefit but interfered with its markets and raised
the cost of certain of its staple supplies. They opposed internal improvements at national
expense because of their consolidating tendency, and because few of the projects carried out
were of large advantage to the Southern people. They regarded the National Bank as at best
useless; and they resisted federal legislation imposing restrictions on slavery as prejudicial
to vested rights in the "peculiar institution."

After 1820 the pendulum swung rapidly back toward particularism. State rights sentiment was
freely expressed by men, both Southern and Northern, whose views commanded respect; and in
more than one State--notably in Ohio and Georgia--bold actions proclaimed this sentiment to
be no mere matter of academic opinion. Judge Roane of Virginia, in a series of articles in
the Richmond Enquirer, argued that the Federal Union was a compact among the States and that
the nationalistic reasoning of his fellow Virginian, Marshall, in the foregoing decisions was
false; and Jefferson heartily endorsed his views.

In 1825 Jefferson actually proposed that the Virginia Legislature should pass a set of resolutions
pronouncing null and void the whole body of federal laws on the subject of internal improvements.
The Georgia Legislature, aroused by growing antislavery activities in the North, declared in
1827 that the remedy lay in "a firm and determined union of the people and the States of the
South" against interference with the institutions of that section of the country. Already Georgia
had placed herself in an attitude of resistance to the Federal Government upon the rights of
the Indians within her borders, and within the next decade she repeatedly nullified decisions
of the federal courts on this subject. In 1828 the South Carolina Legislature adopted a series
of eight resolutions denouncing the lately enacted "tariff of abominations," and a report,
originally drafted by Calhoun and commonly known as The South Carolina Exposition, in which
were to be found all of the essentials of the constitutional argument underlying the nullification
movement of 1832.

When Jackson went into the White House, the country was therefore fairly buzzing with discussions
of constitutional questions. What was the true character of the Constitution and of the Union
established under it? Were the States sovereign? Who should determine the limits of state and
federal powers? What remedy had a State against unconstitutional measures of the National Government?
Who should say when an act was unconstitutional?

The South, in particular, was in an irritable frame of mind. Agriculture was in a state of
depression; manufacturing was not developing as had been expected; the steadily mounting tariffs
were working economic disadvantage; the triumph of members of Congress and of the Supreme Court
who favored a loose construction of the Constitution indicated that there would be no end of
acts and decisions contrary to what the South regarded as her own interests. Some apprehensive
people looked to Jackson for reassurance. But his first message to Congress assumed that the
tariff would continue as it was, and, indeed, gave no promise of relief in any direction.

It was at this juncture that the whole controversy flared up unexpectedly in one of the greatest
debates ever heard on the floor of our Congress or in the legislative halls of any country.
On December 29, 1829, Senator Samuel A. Foote of Connecticut offered an innocent-looking resolution
proposing a temporary restriction of the sale of public lands to such lands as had already
been placed on the market. The suggestion was immediately resented by western members, who
professed to see in it a desire to check the drain of eastern population to the West; and upon
the reconvening of Congress following the Christmas recess Senator Benton of Missouri voiced
in no uncertain terms the indignation of his State and section. The discussion might easily
have led to nothing more than the laying of the resolution on the table; and in that event
we should never have heard of it. But it happened that one of the senators from South Carolina,
Robert Y. Hayne, saw in the situation what he took to be a chance to deliver a telling blow
for his own discontented section. On the 19th of January he got the floor, and at the fag-end
of a long day he held his colleagues' attention for an hour.

The thing that Hayne had in mind to do primarily was to draw the West to the side of the South,
in common opposition to the East. He therefore vigorously attacked the Foote resolution, agreeing
with Benton that it was an expression of Eastern jealousy and that its adoption would greatly
retard the development of the West. He laid much stress upon the common interests of the Western
and Southern people and openly invited the one to an alliance with the other. He deprecated
the tendencies of the Federal Government to consolidation and declared himself "opposed, in
any shape, to all unnecessary extension of the powers or the influence of the Legislature or
Executive of the Union over the States, or the people of the States." Throughout the speech
ran side by side the twin ideas of strict construction and state rights; in every sentence
breathed the protest of South Carolina against the protective tariff.

Just as the South Carolinian began speaking, a shadow darkened the doorway of the Senate chamber,
and Daniel Webster stepped casually inside. The Massachusetts member was at the time absorbed
in the preparation of certain cases that were coming up before the Supreme Court, and he had
given little attention either to Foote's resolution or to the debate upon it. What he now heard,
however, quickly drove Carver's Lessee vs. John Jacob Astor quite out of his mind. Aspersions
were being cast upon his beloved New England; the Constitution was under attack; the Union
itself was being called in question. Webster's decision was instantaneous: Hayne must be answered--and
answered while his arguments were still hot.

"Seeing the true grounds of the Constitution thus attacked," the New Englander subsequently
explained at a public dinner in New York, "I raised my voice in its favor, I must confess,
with no preparation or previous intention. I can hardly say that I embarked in the contest
from a sense of duty. It was an instantaneous impulse of inclination, not acting against duty,
I trust, but hardly waiting for its suggestions. I felt it to be a contest for the integrity
of the Constitution, and I was ready to enter into it, not thinking, or caring, personally,
how I came out."

The debate was now fairly started, and the word quickly went round that a battle of the giants
was impending. Each foeman was worthy of the other's steel. Hayne was representative of all
that was proudest and best in the South Carolina of his day. "Nature had lavished on him,"
says Benton, "all the gifts which lead to eminence in public, and to happiness in private,
life." He was tall, well-proportioned, graceful; his features were clean-cut and expressive
of both intelligence and amiability; his manner was cordial and unaffected; his mind was vigorous
and his industry unremitting. Furthermore, he was an able lawyer, a fluent orator, a persuasive
debater, an adroit parliamentarian. Upon entering the Senate at the early age of thirty-two,
he had won prompt recognition by a powerful speech in opposition to the tariff of 1824; and
by 1828, when he was reëlected, he was known as the South's ablest and boldest spokesman in
the upper chamber.

Webster was an equally fitting representative of rugged New England. Born nine years earlier
than Hayne, he struggled up from a boyhood of physical frailty and poverty to an honored place
at the Boston bar, and in 1812, at the age of thirty, was elected to Congress. To the Senate
he brought, in 1827, qualities that gave him at once a preeminent position. His massive head,
beetling brow, flashing eye, and stately carriage attracted instant attention wherever he went.
His physical impressiveness was matched by lofty traits of character and by extraordinary powers
of intellect; and by 1830 he had acquired a reputation for forensic ability and legal acumen
which were second to none.

When, therefore, on the 21st of January, Hayne rose to deliver his First Reply, and Webster
five days later took the floor to begin his Second Reply--probably the greatest effort in the
history of American legislative oratory--the little chamber then used by the Senate, but nowadays
given over to the Supreme Court, presented a spectacle fairly to be described as historic.
Every senator who could possibly be present answered at roll call. Here were Webster's more
notable fellow New Englanders--John Holmes of Maine, Levi Woodbury of New Hampshire, Horatio
Seymour of Vermont. There were Mahlon Dickerson and Theodore Frelinghuysen of New Jersey, and
John M. Clayton of Delaware. Here, John Tyler of Virginia, John Forsyth of Georgia, William
R. King of Alabama; there, Hugh L. White and Felix Grundy of Tennessee, and Thomas H. Benton
of Missouri. From the President's chair Hayne's distinguished fellow South Carolinian, Calhoun,
looked down upon the assemblage with emotions which he vainly strove to conceal.

During the later stages of the discussion people of prominence from adjoining States filled
the hotels of the city and bombarded the senators with requests for tickets of admission to
the senate galleries. Lines were formed, and when the doors were thrown open in the morning
every available inch of space was instantly filled with interested and excited spectators.
So great was the pressure that all rules governing the admission of the public were waived.
On the day of Webster's greatest effort ladies were admitted to the seats of the members, and
the throng overflowed through the lobbies and down the long stairways, quite beyond hearing
distance. In the House of Representatives the Speaker remained at his post, but the attendance
was so scant that no business could be transacted.

Hayne's speech--begun on the 21st and continued on the 25th of January--was the fullest and
most forceful exposition of the doctrines of strict construction, state rights, and nullification
that had ever fallen upon the ear of Congress. It was no mere piece of abstract argumentation.
Hayne was not the man to shrink from personalities, and he boldly accused the New England Federalists
of disloyalty and Webster himself of complicity in "bargain and corruption." Thrusting and
parrying, he stirred his supporters to wild enthusiasm and moved even the solemn-visaged Vice
President to smiles of approval. The nationalists winced and wondered whether their champion
would be able to measure up with so keen an antagonist. Webster sat staring into space, breaking
his reverie only now and then to make a few notes.

The debate reached a climax in Webster's powerful Second Reply, on the 26th and 27th of January.
Everything was favorable for a magnificent effort: the hearing was brilliant, the theme was
vital, the speaker was in the prime of his matchless powers. On the desk before the New Englander
as he arose were only five small letter-paper pages of notes. He spoke with such immediate
preparation merely as the labors of a single evening made possible. But it may be doubted whether
any forensic effort in our history was ever more thoroughly prepared for, because Webster lived
his speech before he spoke it. The origins of the Federal Union, the theories and applications
of the Constitution, the history and bearings of nullification--these were matters with which
years of study, observation, professional activity, and association with men had made him absolutely
familiar. If any living American could answer Hayne and his fellow partizans, Webster was the
man to do it.

Forty-eight in the total of seventy-three pages of print filled by this speech are taken up
with a defense of New England against the Southern charges of sectionalism and disloyalty.
If this had been all, the speech would have been only a spirited defense of the good name of
a section and would hardly have gained immortality. It was the Union, however, that most needed
defense; and for that service the orator reserved his grandest efforts.

From the opening of the discussion Webster's object had been to "force from Hayne or his supporters
a full, frank, clear-cut statement of what nullification meant; and then, by opposing to this
doctrine the Constitution as he understood it, to show its utter inadequacy and fallaciousness
either as constitutional law or as a practical working scheme."[10] In the Southerner's First
Reply Webster found the statement that he wanted; he now proceeded to demolish it. Many pages
of print would be required to reproduce, even in substance, the arguments which he employed.
Yet the fundamentals are so simple that they can be stated in a dozen lines. Sovereignty, under
our form of government, resides in the people of the United States. The exercise of the powers
of sovereignty is entrusted by the people partly to the National Government and partly to the
state Governments. This division of functions is made in the federal Constitution. If differences
arise, as they must, as to the precise nature of the division, the decision rests--not with
the state legislatures, as Hayne had said--but with the federal courts, which were established
in part for that very purpose. No State has a right to "nullify" a federal law; if one State
has this right, all must have it, and the result can only be conflicts that would plunge the
Government into chaos and the people ultimately into war. If the Constitution is not what the
people want, they can amend it; but as long as it stands, the Constitution and all lawful government
under it must be obeyed.

The incomparably eloquent peroration penetrated to the heart of the whole matter. The logic
of nullification was disunion. Fine theories might be spun and dazzling phrases made to convince
men otherwise, but the hard fact would remain. Hayne, Calhoun, and their like were playing
with fire. Already they were boldly weighing "the chances of preserving liberty when the bonds
that unite us together shall be broken asunder"; already they were hanging over the precipice
of disunion, to see whether they could "fathom the depth of the abyss below."

Undaunted by the flood of eloquence that for four hours held the Senate spellbound, Hayne replied
in a long speech that touched the zenith of his own masterful powers of argumentation. He conceded
nothing. Each State, he still maintained, is "an independent sovereignty"; the Union is based
upon a compact; and every party to the compact has a right to interpret for itself the terms
of the agreement by which all are bound together. In a short, crisp speech, traversing the
main ground which he had already gone over.

Webster exposed the inconsistencies and dangers involved in this argument; and the debate was
over. The Foote resolution, long since forgotten, remained on the Senate calendar four months
and was then tabled. Webster went back to his cases; the politicians turned again to their
immediate concerns; the humdrum of congressional business was resumed; and popular interest
drifted to other things.

Both sides were well satisfied with the presentation of their views. Certainly neither was
converted to the position of the other. The debate served, however, to set before the country
with greater clearness than ever before the two great systems of constitutional interpretation
that were struggling for mastery, and large numbers of men whose ideas had been hazy were now
led to adopt thoughtfully either the one body of opinions or the other. The country was not
yet ready to follow the controversy to the end which Webster clearly foresaw--civil war. But
each side treasured its vitalized and enriched arguments for use in a more strenuous day.

Advantage in the great discussion lay partly with Hayne and partly with his brilliant antagonist.
On the whole, the facts of history were on the side of Hayne. Webster attempted to argue from
the intent of the framers of the Constitution and from early opinion concerning the nature
of the Union; but a careful appraisal of the evidence hardly bears out his contentions. On
economic matters also, notably the operation of the protective tariff, he trod uncertain ground.
He realized this fact and as far as possible kept clear of economic discussion. The South had
real grievances, and Webster was well enough aware that they could not be argued out of existence.

On the other hand, the Northerner was vastly superior to his opponent in his handling of the
theoretical issues of constitutional law; and in his exposition of the practical difficulties
that would attend the operation of the principle of nullification he employed a fund of argument
that was simply unanswerable. The logic of the larger phases of the situation lay, too, with
him. If the Union for which he pleaded was not the Union which the Fathers intended to establish
or even that which actually existed in the days of Washington and the elder Adams, it was at
all events the Union in which, by the close of the fourth decade under the Constitution, a
majority of the people of the United States had come to believe. It was the Union of Henry
Clay, of Andrew Jackson, of Abraham Lincoln. It was the Second Reply to Hayne which, more than
any other single event or utterance between 1789 and 1860, "compacted the States into a nation."

CHAPTER VIII

TARIFF AND NULLIFICATION

It was more than brilliant oratory that had drawn to the Senate chamber the distinguished audiences
faced by Webster and Hayne in the great debate of 1830. The issues discussed touched the vitality
and permanence of the nation itself. Nullification was no mere abstraction of the senator from
South Carolina. It was a principle which his State--and, for aught one could tell, his section--was
about to put into action. Already, in 1830, the air was tense with the coming controversy.

South Carolina had traveled a long road, politically, since 1789. In the days of Washington
and the elder Adams the State was strongly Federalist. In 1800 Jefferson secured its electoral
vote. But the Virginian's leadership was never fully accepted, and even before the Republican
party had elsewhere submitted to the inevitable nationalization the South Carolina membership
was openly arrayed on the side of a protective tariff, the National Bank, and internal improvements.
Calhoun and Cheves were for years among the most ardent exponents of broad constitutional construction;
Hayne himself was elected to the Senate in 1822 as a nationalist, and over another candidate
whose chief handicap was that he had proposed that his State secede rather than submit to the
Missouri Compromise.

After 1824 sentiment rapidly shifted. The cause appeared to be the tariff; but in reality deeper
forces were at work. South Carolina was an agricultural State devoted almost exclusively to
the raising of cotton and rice. Soil and climate made her such, and the "peculiar institution"
confirmed what Nature already had decreed. But the planters were now beginning to feel keenly
the competition of the new cotton lands of the Gulf plains. As production increased, the price
of cotton fell. The Southern planter was never able to discover in the protective system any
real advantage for himself, but as long as the tariffs were moderate he was influenced by nationalistic
sentiment to accept them. The demand for protection on the part of the Northern manufacturers
seemed, however, insatiable. An act of 1824 raised the duties on cotton and woolen goods. A
measure of 1827 which applied to woolens the ruinous principle already applied to cottons was
passed by the House and was laid on the table in the Senate only by the casting vote of Vice
President Calhoun. The climax was reached in the Tariff Act of 1828, which the Southerners
themselves loaded with objectionable provisions in the vain hope of making it so abominable
that even New England congressmen would vote against it.

A few years of such legislation sufficed to rouse the South to a deep feeling of grievance.
It was no longer a question of reasonable concession to the general national good. A vast artificial
economic system had been set up, whose benefits accrued to the North and whose burdens fell
disproportionately upon the South. The tone and temper of the manufacturing sections and of
the agricultural West gave no promise of a change of policy. The obvious conclusion was that
the planting interests must find some means of bringing pressure to bear for their own relief.

The means which they found was nullification; and it fell to South Carolina, whose people were
most ardent in their resentment of anything that looked like discrimination, to put the remedy
to the test. The Legislature of this State had made an early beginning by denouncing the tariff
of 1824 as unconstitutional. In 1827 Robert J. Turnbull, one of the abler political leaders,
published under the title of The Crisis a series of essays in which he boldly proclaimed nullification
as the remedy. In the following summer Calhoun put the nullification doctrine into its first
systematic form in a paper--the so-called Exposition--which for some time was known to the
public only as the report of a committee of the Legislature.

By 1829 the State was sharply divided into two parties, the nationalists and the nullifiers.
All were agreed that the protective system was iniquitous and that it must be broken down.
The difference was merely as to method. The nationalists favored working through the customary
channels of legislative reform; the nullifiers urged that the State interpose its authority
to prevent the enforcement of the objectionable laws. For a time the leaders wavered. But the
swing of public sentiment in the direction of nullification was rapid and overwhelming, and
one by one the representatives in Congress and other men of prominence fell into line. Hayne
and McDuffie were among the first to give it their support; and Calhoun, while he was for a
time held back by his political aspirations and by his obligations as Vice President, came
gradually to feel that his political future would be worth little unless he had the support
of his own State.

As the election of 1828 approached, the hope of the discontented forces centered in Jackson.
They did not overlook the fact that his record was that of a moderate protectionist. But the
same was true of many South Carolinians and Georgians, and it seemed not at all impossible
that, as a Southern man and a cotton planter, he should undergo a change of heart no less decisive
than that which Hayne and Calhoun had experienced. Efforts to draw him out, however, proved
not very successful. Lewis saw to it that Jackson's utterances while yet he was a candidate
were safely colorless; and the single mention of the tariff contained in the inaugural address
was susceptible of the most varied interpretations. The annual message of 1829 indicated opposition
to protection; on the other hand, the presidential message of the next year not only asserted
the full power of Congress to levy protective duties but declared the abandonment of protection
"neither to be expected or desired." Gradually the antiprotectionist leaders were made to see
that the tariff was not a subject upon which the President felt keenly, and that therefore
it was useless to look to him for effective support.

Even the adroit efforts which were made to get from the incoming executive expressions that
could be interpreted as endorsements of nullification were successfully fended off. For some
months the President gave no outward sign of his disapproval. With more than his usual deliberateness,
Jackson studied the situation, awaiting the right moment to speak out with the maximum of effect.

The occasion finally came on April 13, 1830, at a banquet held in Washington in celebration
of Jefferson's birthday. The Virginia patron of democracy had been dead four years, and Jackson
had become, more truly than any other man, his successor. Jacksonian democracy was, however,
something very different from Jeffersonian, and never was the contrast more evident than on
this fateful evening. During the earlier part of the festivities a series of prearranged toasts,
accompanied by short speeches, put before the assemblage the Jeffersonian teachings in a light
highly favorable--doubtless unwarrantably so--to the ultra state rights theory. Then followed
a number of volunteer toasts. The President was, of course, accorded the honor of proposing
the first--and this gave Jackson his chance. Rising in his place and drawing himself up to
his full height, he raised his right hand, looked straight at Calhoun and, amid breathless
silence, exclaimed in that crisp, harsh tone that had so often been heard above the crashing
of many rifles: "Our Union! It must be preserved!"

An account of the scene which is given by Isaac Hill, a member of the Kitchen Cabinet and an
eyewitness, is interesting:

A proclamation of martial law in South Carolina and an order to arrest Calhoun where he sat
could not have come with more blinding, staggering force. All hilarity ceased. The President,
without adding one word in the way of speech, lifted up his glass as a notice that the toast
was to be quaffed standing. Calhoun rose with the rest. His glass so trembled in his hand that
a little of the amber fluid trickled down the side. Jackson stood silent and impassive. There
was no response to the toast. Calhoun waited until all sat down. Then he slowly and with hesitating
accent offered the second volunteer toast: "The Union! Next to Our Liberty Most Dear!" Then,
after a minute's hesitation, and in a way that left doubt as to whether he intended it for
part of the toast or for the preface to a speech, he added: "May we all remember that it can
only be preserved by respecting the rights of the States and by distributing equally the benefit
and burden of the Union."

The nullifiers had carefully planned the evening's proceedings with a purpose to strengthen
their cause with the country. They had not reckoned on the President, and the dash of cold
water which he had administered caused them more anguish than any opposition that they had
yet encountered. The banquet broke up earlier than had been expected, and the diners went off
by twos and threes in eager discussion of the scene that they had witnessed. Some were livid
with rage; some shook their heads in fear of civil war; but most rejoiced in the splendid exhibition
of executive dignity and patriotic fervor which the President had given. Subsequently it transpired
that Jackson had acted on no mere impulse and that his course had been carefully planned in
consultation with Van Buren and other advisers.

Throughout the summer and autumn of 1830 both the State Rights and Union parties in South Carolina
worked feverishly to perfect their organizations. The issue that both were making ready to
meet was nothing less than the election of a convention to nullify the tariff laws. Those upholding
nullification lost no opportunity to consolidate their forces, and by the close of the year
these were clearly in the majority, although the unionist element contained many of the ablest
and most respected men in the State. Calhoun directed the nullifier campaign, though he did
not throw off all disguises until the summer of the following year.

Though Jackson made no further public declarations, the views which he expressed in private
were usually not slow to reach the public ear. In a letter to a committee of the Union party
in response to an invitation to attend a Fourth of July dinner the President intimated that
force might properly be employed if nullification should be attempted. And to a South Carolina
Congressman who was setting off on a trip home he said: "Tell them [the nullifiers] from me
that they can talk and write resolutions and print threats to their hearts' content. But if
one drop of blood be shed there in defiance of the laws of the United States, I will hang the
first man of them I can get my hands on to the first tree I can find." When Hayne heard of
this threat he expressed in Benton's hearing a doubt as to whether the President would really
hang anybody. "I tell you, Hayne," the Missourian replied, "when Jackson begins to talk about
hanging, they can begin to look for the ropes."

Meanwhile actual nullification awaited the decision of the Vice President to surrender himself
completely to the cause and to become its avowed leader. Calhoun did not find this an easy
decision to make. Above all things he wanted to be President. He was not the author of nullification;
and although he did not fully realize until too late how much his state rights leanings would
cost him in the North, he was shrewd enough to know that his political fortunes would not be
bettered by his becoming involved in a great sectional controversy. Circumstances worked together,
however, to force Calhoun gradually into the position of chief prominence in the dissenting
movement. The tide of public opinion in his State swept him along with it; the breach with
Jackson severed the last tie with the northern and western democracy; and his resentment of
Van Buren's rise to favor prompted words and acts which completed the isolation of the South
Carolinian. His party's enthusiastic acceptance of Jackson as a candidate for reëlection in
1832 and of "Little Van" as a candidate for the vice presidency--and, by all tokens, for the
presidency four years later--was the last straw. Broken and desperate, Calhoun sank back into
the role of an extremist, sectional leader. There was no need of further concealment; and in
midsummer, 1831, he issued his famous Address to the People of South Carolina, and this restatement
of the Exposition of 1828 now became the avowed platform of the nullification party. The Fort
Hill Letter of August 28, 1832, addressed to Governor Hamilton, was a simpler and clearer presentation
of the same body of doctrine.

Matters were at last brought to a head by a new piece of tariff legislation which was passed
in 1832 not to appease South Carolina but to take advantage of a comfortable state of affairs
that had arisen in the national treasury. The public lands were again selling well, and the
late tariff laws were yielding lavishly. The national debt was dwindling to the point of disappearance,
and the country had more money than it could use. Jackson therefore called upon Congress to
revise the tariff system so as to reduce the revenue, and in the session of 1831-32 several
bills to that end were brought forward. The scale of duties finally embodied in the Act of
July 14, 1832, corrected many of the anomalies of the Act of 1828, but it cut off some millions
of revenue without making any substantial change in the protective system. Virginia and North
Carolina voted heavily for the bill, but South Carolina and Georgia as vigorously opposed it;
and the nullifiers refused to see in it any concession to the tariff principles for which they
stood. "I no longer consider the question one of free trade," wrote Calhoun when the passage
of the bill was assured, "but of consolidation." In an address to their constituents the South
Carolina delegation in Congress declared that "protection must now be regarded as the settled
policy of the country," that "all hope from Congress is irrevocably gone," and that it was
for the people to decide "whether the rights and liberties which you received as a precious
inheritance from an illustrious ancestry shall be tamely surrendered without a struggle, or
transmitted undiminished to your posterity."

In the disaffected State events now moved rapidly. The elections of the early autumn were carried
by the nullifiers, and the new Legislature, acting on the recommendation of Governor Hamilton,
promptly called a state convention to consider whether the "federal compact" had been violated
and what remedy should be adopted. The 162 delegates who gathered at Columbia on the 19th of
November were, socially and politically, the elite of the State: Hamiltons, Haynes, Pinckneys,
Butlers--almost all of the great families of a State of great families were represented. From
the outset the convention was practically of one mind; and an ordinance of nullification drawn
up by a committee of twenty-one was adopted within five days by a vote of 136 to 26.

The tariff acts of 1828 and 1832 were declared "null, void, and no law, nor binding upon this
State, its officers or citizens." None of the duties in question were to be permitted to be
collected in the State after February 1, 1833. Appeals to the federal courts for enforcement
of the invalidated acts were forbidden, and all officeholders, except members of the Legislature,
were required to take an oath to uphold the ordinance. Calhoun had laboriously argued that
nullification did not mean disunion. But his contention was not sustained by the words of the
ordinance, which stated unequivocally that the people of the State would not "submit to the
application of force on the part of the federal Government to reduce this State to obedience."

In accordance with the instructions of the convention, the Legislature forthwith reassembled
to pass the measures deemed necessary to enforce the ordinance. A replevin act provided for
the recovery of goods seized or detained for payment of duty; the use of military force, including
volunteers, to "repel invasion" was authorized; and provision was made for the purchase of
arms and ammunition. Throughout the State a martial tone resounded. Threats of secession and
war were heard on every side. Nightly meetings were held and demonstrations were organized.
Blue cockades with a palmetto button in the center became the most popular of ornaments. Medals
were struck bearing the inscription: "John C. Calhoun, First President of the Southern Confederacy."
The Legislature, reassembling in December, elected Hayne as Governor and chose Calhoun--who
now resigned the vice presidency--to take the vacant seat in the Senate. In his first message
to the Legislature Webster's former antagonist declared his purpose to carry into full effect
the nullification ordinance and the legislation supplementary to it, and expressed confidence
that, if the sacred soil of the State should be "polluted by the footsteps of an invader,"
no one of her sons would be found "raising a parricidal arm against our common mother."

Thus the proud commonwealth was panoplied for a contest of wits, and perchance of arms, with
the nation. Could it hope to win? South Carolina had a case which had been forcibly and plausibly
presented. It could count on a deep reluctance of men in every part of the country to see the
nation fall into actual domestic combat. There were, however, a dozen reasons why victory could
not reasonably be looked for. One would have been enough--the presence of Andrew Jackson in
the White House.

Through federal officers and the leaders of the Union party Jackson kept himself fully informed
upon the situation, and six weeks before the nullification convention was called he began preparations
to meet all eventualities. The naval authorities at Norfolk were directed to be in readiness
to dispatch a squadron to Charleston; the commanders of the forts in Charleston Harbor were
ordered to double their vigilance and to defend their posts against any persons whatsoever;
troops were ordered from Fortress Monroe; and General Scott was sent to take full command and
to strengthen the defenses as he found necessary. The South Carolinians were to be allowed
to talk, and even to adopt "ordinances," to their hearts' content. But the moment they stepped
across the line of disobedience to the laws of the United States they were to be made to feel
the weight of the nation's restraining hand.

"The duty of the Executive is a plain one," wrote the President to Joel R. Poinsett, a prominent
South Carolina unionist; "the laws will be executed and the United States preserved by all
the constitutional and legal means he is invested with." When the situation bore its most serious
aspect Jackson received a call from Sam Dale, who had been one of his dispatch bearers at the
Battle of New Orleans. "Dale," he exclaimed again later, "they are trying me here; you will
witness it; but, by the God of heaven, I will uphold the laws." "I understood him to be referring
to nullification again," related Dale in his account of the interview, "and I expressed the
hope that things would go right." "They shall go right, sir," the President fairly shouted,
shattering his pipe on the table by way of further emphasis.

When Jackson heard that the convention at Columbia had taken the step expected of it, he made
the following entry in his diary: "South Carolina has passed her ordinance of nullification
and secession. As soon as it can be had in authentic form, meet it with a proclamation." The
proclamation was issued December 10, 1832. Parton relates that the President wrote the first
draft of this proclamation under such a glow of feeling that he was obliged "to scatter the
written pages all over the table to let them dry," and that the document was afterwards revised
by his scholarly Secretary of State, Edward Livingston. With Jackson supplying the ideas and
spirit and Livingston the literary form, the result was the ablest and most impressive state
paper of the period. It categorically denied the right of a State either to annul a federal
law or to secede from the Union. It admitted that the laws complained of operated unequally
but took the position that this must be true of all revenue measures. It expressed the inflexible
determination of the Administration to repress and punish every form of resistance to federal
authority. Deep argument, solemn warning, and fervent entreaty were skillfully combined.

Throughout the North this vindication of national dignity and power struck a responsive chord,
and for once even the Adams and Clay men found themselves in hearty agreement with the President.
Bostonians gathered in Faneuil Hall and New Yorkers in a great meeting in the Park to shower
encomiums upon the proclamation and upon its author. The nullifiers did not at once recoil
from the blow. The South Carolina Legislature called upon Governor Hayne officially to warn
"the good people of this State against the attempt of the President of the United States to
seduce them from their allegiance"; and the resulting counterblast, in the form of a proclamation
made public on the 20th of December, was as vigorous as the liveliest "fire-eater" could have
wished. The Governor declared that the State would maintain its sovereignty or be "buried beneath
its ruins."

The date of the expected crisis--February 1, 1833, when the nullification ordinance was to
take effect--was now near at hand, and on both sides preparations were pushed. During the interval,
however, the tide turned decidedly against the nullifiers. A call for a general convention
of the States "to determine and consider ... questions of disputed power" served only to draw
out strong expressions of disapproval of the South Carolina program, showing that it could
not expect even moral support from outside. On the 16th of January Jackson asked Congress for
authority to alter or abolish certain ports of entry, to use force to execute the revenue laws,
and to try in the federal courts cases that might arise from the present emergency. Five days
later a bill on these lines--popularly denominated the "Force Bill"--was introduced; and while
many men who had no sympathy with nullification drew back from a plan involving the coercion
of a State, it was soon settled that some sort of measure for strengthening the President's
hand would be passed.

Meanwhile a way of escape from the whole difficulty was unexpectedly opened. The friends of
Van Buren began to fear that the disagreement of North and South upon the tariff question would
cost their favorite the united support of the party in 1836. Accordingly they set on foot a
movement in Congress to bring about a moderate reduction of the prevailing rates; and it was
of course their hope that the nullifiers would be induced to recede altogether from the position
which they had taken. Through Verplanck of New York, the Ways and Means Committee of the House
brought in a measure reducing the duties, within two years, to about half the existing rates.
Jackson approved the plan, although personally he had little to do with it.

But though the Verplanck Bill could not muster sufficient support to become law, it revived
tariff discussion on promising lines, and it brought nullification proceedings to a halt in
the very nick of time. Shortly before February 1, 1833, the leading nullifiers came together
in Charleston and entered into an extralegal agreement to postpone the enforcement of the nullification
ordinance until the outcome of the new tariff debates should be known. The failure of the Verplanck
measure, however, left matters where they were, and civil war in South Carolina again loomed
ominously.

In this juncture patriots of all parties turned to the one man whose leadership seemed indispensable
in tariff legislation--the "great pacificator," Henry Clay, who after two years in private
life had just taken his seat in the Senate. Clay was no friend of Jackson or of Van Buren,
and it required much sacrifice of personal feeling to lend his services to a program whose
political benefits would almost certainly accrue to his rivals. Finally, however, he yielded
and on the 12th of February he rose in the Senate and offered a compromise measure proposing
that on all articles which paid more than twenty per cent the amount in excess of that rate
should be reduced by stages until in 1842 it would entirely disappear.

Stormy debates followed on both the Compromise Tariff and the Force Bill, but before the session
closed on the 4th of March both were on the statute book. When, therefore, the South Carolina
convention, in accordance with an earlier proclamation of Governor Hamilton, reassembled on
the 11th of March, the wind had been taken out of the nullifiers' sails; the laws which they
had "nullified" had been repealed, and there was nothing for the convention to do but to rescind
the late ordinance and the legislative measures supplementary to it. There was a chance, however,
for one final fling. By a vote of 132 to 19 the convention soberly adopted an ordinance nullifying
the Force Bill and calling on the Legislature to pass laws to prevent the execution of that
measure--which, indeed, nobody was now proposing to execute.

So the tempest passed. Both sides claimed victory, and with some show of reason. So far as
was possible without an actual test of strength, the authority of the Federal Government had
been vindicated and its dignity maintained; the constitutional doctrines of Webster acquired
a new sanction; the fundamental point was enforced that a law--that every law--enacted by Congress
must be obeyed until repealed or until set aside by the courts as unconstitutional. On the
other hand, the nullifiers had brought about the repeal of the laws to which they objected
and had been largely instrumental in turning the tariff policy of the country for some decades
into a new channel. Moreover they expressed no regret for their acts and in no degree renounced
the views upon which those acts had been based. They submitted to the authority of the United
States, but on terms fixed by themselves. And, what is more, they supplied practically every
constitutional and political argument to be used by their sons in 1860 to justify secession.

CHAPTER IX

THE WAR ON THE UNITED STATES BANK

"Nothing lacks now to complete the love-feast," wrote Isaac Hill sardonically to Thomas H.
Benton after the collapse of nullification, "but for Jackson and Webster to solemnize the coalition
[in support of the Union] with a few mint-juleps! I think I could arrange it, if assured of
the coöperation of yourself and Blair on our side, and Jerry Mason and Nick Biddle on theirs.
But never fear, my friend. This mixing of oil and water is only the temporary shake-up of Nullification.
Wait till Jackson gets at the Bank again, and then the scalping-knives will glisten once more."

The South Carolina controversy had indeed brought Jacksonians and anti-Jacksonians together.
But once the tension was relaxed, there began the conflict of interests which the New Hampshire
editor had predicted. Men fell again into their customary political relationships; issues that
for the moment had been pushed into the background--internal improvements, public land policy,
distribution of surplus revenue, and above all the Bank--were revived in full vigor. Now, indeed,
the President entered upon the greatest task to which he had yet put his hand. To curb nullification
was a worthy achievement. But, after all, Congress and an essentially united nation had stood
firmly behind the Executive at every stage of that performance. To destroy the United States
Bank was a different matter, for this institution had the full support of one of the two great
parties in which the people of the country were now grouped; Jackson's own party was by no
means a unit in opposing it; and the prestige and influence of the Bank were such as to enable
it to make a powerful fight against any attempts to annihilate it.

The second Bank of the United States was chartered in 1816 for twenty years, with a capital
of thirty-five million dollars, one-fifth of which had been subscribed by the Government. For
some time it was not notably successful, partly because of bad management but mainly because
of the disturbance of business which the panic of 1819 had produced. Furthermore, its power
over local banks and over the currency system made it unpopular in the West and South, and
certain States sought to cripple it by taxing out of existence the several branches which the
board of directors voted to establish. In two notable decisions--M'Culloch vs. Maryland in
1819 and Osborn vs. United States Bank in 1824--the Supreme Court saved the institution by
denying the power of a State to impose taxation of the sort and by asserting unequivocally
the right of Congress to enact the legislation upon which the Bank rested. And after Nicholas
Biddle, a Philadelphia lawyer-diplomat, succeeded Langdon Cheves as president of the Bank in
1823 an era of great prosperity set in.

The forces of opposition were never reconciled; indeed, every evidence of the increasing strength
of the Bank roused them to fresh hostility. The verdict of the Supreme Court in support of
the constitutionality of the Act of 1816 carried conviction to few people who were not already
convinced. The restraints which the Bank imposed upon the dubious operations of the southern
and western banks were vigorously resented. The Bank was regarded as a great financial monopoly,
an "octopus," and Biddle as an autocrat bent only on dominating the entire banking and currency
system of the country.

On Jackson's attitude toward the Bank before he became President we have little direct information.
But it is sufficiently clear that eventually he came to share the hostile views of his Tennessee
friends and neighbors. In 1817 he refused to sign a memorial "got up by the aristocracy of
Nashville" for the establishment of a branch in that town. When, ten years later, such a branch
was installed, General Thomas Cadwalader of Philadelphia, agent of the Bank, visited the town
to supervise the arrangements and became very friendly with the "lord of the Hermitage." But
correspondence of succeeding years, though filled with insinuating cordiality, failed to bring
out any expression of goodwill toward the institution such as the agent manifestly coveted.

Jackson seems to have carried to Washington in 1829 a deep distrust of the Bank, and he was
disposed to speak out boldly against it in his inaugural address. But he was persuaded by his
friends that this would be ill-advised, and he therefore made no mention of the subject. Yet
he made no effort to conceal his attitude, for he wrote to Biddle a few months after the inauguration
that he did not believe that Congress had power to charter a bank outside of the District of
Columbia, that he did not dislike the United States Bank more than other banks, but that ever
since he had read the history of the South Sea Bubble he had been afraid of banks. After this
confession the writer hardly needed to confess that he was "no economist, no financier."

Most of the officers of the "mother bank" at Philadelphia and of the branches were anti-Jackson
men, and Jackson's friends put the idea into his mind that the Bank had used its influence
against him in the late campaign. Specific charges of partizanship were brought against Jeremiah
Mason, president of the branch at Portsmouth, New Hampshire; and although an investigation
showed the accusation to be groundless, Biddle's heated defense of the branch had no effect
save to rouse the Jacksonians to a firmer determination to compass the downfall of the Bank.

Biddle labored manfully to stem the tide. He tried to improve his personal relations with the
President, and he even allowed Jackson men to gain control of several of the western branches.
The effort, however, was in vain. When he thought the situation right, Biddle brought forward
a plan for a new charter which received the assent of most of the members of the official Cabinet,
as well as that of some of the "Kitchen" group. But Jackson met the proposal with his unshakable
constitutional objections and, to Biddle's deep disappointment, advanced in his first annual
message to the formal, public assault. The Bank's charter, he reminded Congress, would expire
in 1836; request for a new charter would probably soon be forthcoming; the matter could not
receive too early attention from the legislative branch. The first part of the statement was
true, but the second was distinctly unfair. The Bank, to be sure, had not established "a uniform
and sound" currency. But it had accomplished much toward that end and was practically the only
agency that was wielding any influence in that direction. The truth is that the more efficient
the Bank proved in this task the less popular it became among those elements of the people
from which Jackson mainly drew his strength.

Nothing came of the President's admonition except committee reports in the two Houses, both
favorable to the Bank; in fact, the Senate report was copied almost verbatim from a statement
supplied by Biddle. In a set of autograph notes from which the second message was prepared
the existing Bank was declared not only unconstitutional but dangerous to liberty, "because
through its officers, loans, and participation in politics it could build up or pull down parties
or men, because it created a monopoly of the money power, because much of the stock was owned
by foreigners, because it would always support him who supported it, and because it weakened
the state and strengthened the general government." Congress paid no attention to either criticisms
or recommendations, and the supporters of the Bank took fresh heart.

When Congress again met, in December, 1831, a presidential election was impending and everybody
was wondering what part the bank question would play. Most Democrats were of the opinion that
the subject should be kept in the background. After all, the present bank charter had more
than four years to run, and there seemed to be no reason for injecting so thorny an issue into
the campaign. With a view to keeping the bank authorities quiet, two members of the reconstructed
Cabinet, Livingston and McLane, entered into a modus vivendi with Biddle under which the Administration
agreed not to push the issue until after the election. In his annual report as Secretary of
the Treasury, McLane actually made an argument for rechartering the Bank; and in his message
of the 6th of December the President said that, while he still held "the opinions heretofore
expressed in relation to the Bank as at present organized," he would "leave it for the present
to the investigation of an enlightened people and their representatives." He had been persuaded
that his own plan for a Bank, suggested a year earlier, was not feasible.

Biddle now made a supreme mistake. Misled in some degree unquestionably by the optimistic McLane,
he got the idea that Jackson was weakening, that the Democrats were afraid to take a stand
on the subject until after the election, and that now was the strategic time to strike for
a new charter. In this belief he was further encouraged by Clay, Webster, and other leading
anti-Administration men, as well as by McDuffie, a Calhoun supporter and chairman of the Ways
and Means Committee of the House. There was small doubt that a bill for a new charter could
be carried in both branches of Congress. Jackson must either sign it, argued Biddle's advisers,
or run grave risk of losing Pennsylvania and other commercial States whose support was necessary
to his election. On the other hand, Biddle was repeatedly warned that an act for a new charter
would be vetoed. He chose to press the issue and on January 9, 1832, the formal application
of the Bank for a renewal of its charter was presented to Congress, and within a few weeks
bills to recharter were reported in both Houses.

Realizing that defeat or even a slender victory in Congress would be fatal, the Bank flooded
Washington with lobbyists, and Biddle himself appeared upon the scene to lead the fight. The
measure was carried by safe majorities--in the Senate, on the 11th of June, by a vote of 28
to 20, and in the House on the 3d of July, by a vote of 107 to 86. To the dismay of the bank
forces, although it ought not to have been to their surprise.

Jackson was as good as his word. On the 10th of July the bill was vetoed. The veto message
as transmitted to the Senate was probably written by Taney, but the ideas were Jackson's--ideas
which, so far as they relate to finance and banking operations, have been properly characterized
as "in the main beneath contempt." The message, however, was intended as a campaign document,
and as such it showed great ingenuity. It attacked the Bank as a monopoly, a "hydra of corruption,"
and an instrumentality of federal encroachment on the rights of the States, and in a score
of ways appealed to the popular distrust of capitalistic institutions. The message acquired
importance, too, from the President's extraordinary claim to the right of judging both the
constitutionality and the expediency of proposed legislation, independently of Congress and
the Courts.

The veto plunged the Senate into days of acrid debate. Clay pronounced Jackson's construction
of the veto power "irreconcilable with the genius of representative government." Webster declared
that responsibility for the ruin of the Bank and for the disasters that might follow would
have to be borne by the President alone. Benton and other prominent members, however, painted
Jackson as the savior of his country; and the second vote of 22 to 19 yielded a narrower majority
for the bill than the first had done. Thus the measure perished.

The bank men received the veto with equanimity. They professed to believe that the balderdash
in which the message abounded would make converts for their side; they even printed thirty
thousand copies of the document for circulation. Events, however, did not sustain their optimism.
In the ensuing campaign the Bank became, by its own choice, the leading issue. The National
Republicans, whose nominee was Clay, defended the institution and attacked the veto; the Jacksonians
reiterated on the stump every charge and argument that their leader had taught them. The verdict
was decisive. Jackson received 219 and Clay 49 electoral votes.

The President was unquestionably right in interpreting his triumph as an endorsement of the
veto, and he naturally felt that the question was settled. The officers and friends of the
Bank still hoped, however, to snatch victory from defeat. They had no expectation of converting
Jackson or of carrying a charter measure at an early date. But they foresaw that to wind up
the business of the Bank in 1836 it would be necessary to call in loans and to withdraw a vast
amount of currency from circulation, with the result of a general disturbance, if not a severe
crippling, of business. This, they thought, would bring about an eleventh-hour measure giving
the Bank a new lease of life.

Jackson, too, realized that a sudden termination of the activities of the Bank would derange
business and produce distress, and that under these circumstances a charter might be wrung
from Congress in spite of a veto. But he had no intention of allowing matters to come to such
a pass.

His plan was rather to cut off by degrees the activities of the Bank, until at last they could
be suspended altogether without a shock. The most obvious means of doing this was to withdraw
the heavy deposits made by the Government; and to this course the President fully committed
himself as soon as the results of the election were known. He was impelled, further, by the
conviction--notwithstanding unimpeachable evidence to the contrary--that the Bank was insolvent,
and by his indignation at the refusal of Biddle and his associates to accept the electoral
verdict as final. "Biddle shan't have the public money to break down the public administration
with. It's settled. My mind's made up." So the President declared to Blair early in 1833. And
no one could have any reasonable doubt that decisive action would follow threat.

It was not, however, all plain sailing. Under the terms of the charter of 1816 public funds
were to be deposited in the Bank and its branches unless the Secretary of the Treasury should
direct that they be placed elsewhere; and such deposits elsewhere, together with actual withdrawals,
were to be reported to Congress, with reasons for such action. McLane, the Secretary of the
Treasury, was friendly toward the Bank and could not be expected to give the necessary orders
for removal. This meant that the first step was to get a new head for the Treasury. But McLane
was too influential a man to be summarily dismissed. Hence it was arranged that Livingston
should become Minister to France and that McLane should succeed him as Secretary of State.

The choice of the new Secretary of the Treasury would have been a clever stroke if things had
worked out as Jackson expected. The appointee was William J. Duane, son of the editor of the
Aurora, which had long been the most popular and influential newspaper in Pennsylvania. This
State was the seat of the "mother bank" and, although a Jackson stronghold, a cordial supporter
of the proscribed institution; so that it was well worth while to forestall criticism in that
quarter, so far as might be, by having the order for removal issued by a Pennsylvanian. Duane,
however, accepted the post rather because he coveted office than because he supported the policy
of removal, and when the test came Jackson found to his chagrin that he still had a Secretary
who would not take the desired action. There was nothing to do but procure another; and this
time he made no mistake. Duane, weakly protesting, was dismissed, and Roger B. Taney, the Attorney-General,
was appointed in his stead. "I am fully prepared to go with you firmly through this business,"
Jackson was assured by the new Secretary, "and to meet all its consequences."

The way was now clear, and an order was issued requiring all treasury receipts after October
1, 1833, to be deposited in the Girard Bank of Philadelphia and twenty-two other designated
state banks. Deposits in the United States Bank and its branches were not immediately "removed";
they were left, rather, to be withdrawn as the money was actually needed. Nevertheless there
considerable disturbance of business, and deputation after deputation came to the White House
to ask that Taney's order be rescinded. Jackson, however, was sure that most of the trouble
was caused by Biddle and his associates, and to all these appeals he remained absolutely deaf.
After a time he refused so much as to see the petitioners.

From this point the question became entirely one of politics. The Bank itself was doomed. On
the one side, the National Republicans united in the position that the Administration had been
entirely in the wrong, and that the welfare of the country demanded a great fiscal institution
of the character of the Bank. On the other side, the Democrats, deriving, indeed, a new degree
of unity from the controversy on this issue, upheld the President's every word and act. "You
may continue," said Benton to his fellow partizans in the Senate, "to be for a bank and for
Jackson, but you cannot be for this Bank and Jackson." Firmly allied with the Bank interests,
the National Republicans resolved to bring all possible discomfiture upon the Administration.

The House of Representatives was controlled by the Democrats, and little could be accomplished
there. But the Senate contained not only the three ablest anti-Jacksonians of the day--Clay,
Webster, Calhoun--but an absolute majority of anti-Administration men; and there the attack
was launched. On December 26, 1833, Clay introduced two resolutions declaring that in the removal
of the deposits the President had "assumed upon himself authority and power not conferred by
the Constitution and laws but in derogation of both," and pronouncing Taney's statement of
reasons "unsatisfactory and insufficient." After a stormy debate, both resolutions in slightly
amended form were carried by substantial majorities. Aside from a general defense of his course,
the chief point that the President made was that the Constitution provided a procedure in cases
of this kind, namely impeachment, which alone could be properly resorted to if the legislative
branch desired to bring charges against the Executive. The Senate was asked respectfully to
spread the protest on its records. This, however, it refused to do. On the contrary, it voted
that the right of protest could not be recognized; and it found additional satisfaction in
negativing an unusual number of the President's nominations.

Throughout the remainder of his second Administration Jackson maintained his hold upon the
country and kept firm control in the lower branch of Congress. Until very near the end, the
Senate, however, continued hostile. During the debate on the protest Benton served notice that
he would introduce, at each succeeding session, a motion to expunge the resolution of censure.
Such a motion was made in 1835, and again in 1836, without result. But at last, in January,
1837, after a debate lasting thirteen hours, the Senate adopted, by a vote of 24 to 19, a resolution
meeting the Jacksonian demand. Jackson gave a dinner to the "ex-pungers" and their wives, and
placed Benton at the head of the table. That the action of the Senate was unconstitutional
interested no one save the lawyers, for the Bank was dead. Jackson was vindicated, and the
people were enthroned.[12]

The struggle thus brought to a triumphant close was one of the severest in American political
history. In 1836 the Bank obtained a charter from Pennsylvania, under the name of the Bank
of the United States of Pennsylvania, and all connection between it and the Federal Government
ceased. The institution and the controversies centering about it left, however, a deep impress
upon the financial and political history of our fifth and sixth decades. It was the bank issue,
more than anything else, that consolidated the new political parties of the period. It was
that issue that proved most conclusively the hold of Jackson upon public opinion. And it was
the destruction of the Bank that capped the mid-century reaction against the rampant nationalism
of the decade succeeding the War of 1812. The Bank itself had been well managed, sound, and
of great service to the country. But it had also showed strong monopolistic tendencies, and
as a powerful capitalistic organization it ran counter to the principles and prejudices which
formed the very warp and woof of Jacksonian democracy.

For more than a decade after the Bank was destroyed the United States had a troubled financial
history. The payment of the last dollar of the national debt in 1834 gave point to a suggestion
which Clay had repeatedly offered that, as a means of avoiding an embarrassing surplus, the
proceeds of the sales of public lands should be distributed according to population among the
States. One bill on this subject was killed by a veto in 1832, but another was finally approved
in 1836. Before distribution could be carried far, however, the country was overtaken by the
panic of 1837; and never again was there a surplus to distribute. For seven years the funds
of the Government continued to be kept in state banks, until, in 1840, President Van Buren
prevailed upon Congress to pass a measure setting up an independent treasury system, thereby
realizing the ultimate purpose of the Jacksonians to divorce the Government from banks of every
sort. When the Whigs came into power in 1841, they promptly abolished the independent Treasury
with a view to resurrecting the United States Bank. Tyler's vetoes, however, frustrated their
designs, and it remained for the Democrats in 1846 to revive the independent Treasury and to
organize it substantially as it operates today.

CHAPTER X

THE REMOVAL OF THE SOUTHERN INDIANS

It was not by chance that the Jacksonian period made large contribution to the working out
of the ultimate relations of the red man with his white rival and conqueror. Jackson was himself
an old frontier soldier, who never doubted that it was part of the natural order of things
that conflict between the two peoples should go on until the weaker was dispossessed or exterminated.
The era was one in which the West guided public policy; and it was the West that was chiefly
interested in further circumscribing Indian lands, trade, and influence. In Jackson's day,
too, the people ruled; and it was the adventurous, pushing, land-hungry common folk who decreed
that the red man had lingered long enough in the Middle West and must now move on.

The pressure of the white population upon the Indian lands was felt both in the Northwest and
in the Southwest; but the pressure was unevenly applied in the two sections. North of the Ohio
there was simply one great glacier-like advance of the white settlers, driving westward before
it practically all of the natives who did not perish in the successive attempts to roll back
the wave of conquest upon the Alleghanies. The redskins were pushed from Ohio into Indiana,
from Indiana into Illinois, from Illinois and Wisconsin into Iowa and Minnesota; the few tribal
fragments which by treaty arrangement remained behind formed only insignificant "islands" in
the midst of the fast-growing flood of white population.

In the South the great streams of migration were those that flowed down the Ohio, filling the
back lands on each side, and thence down the Mississippi to its mouth. Hence, instead of pressing
the natives steadily backward from a single direction, as in the North, the whites hemmed them
in on east, west, and north; while to the southward the Gulf presented a relentless barrier.
Powerful and populous tribes were left high and dry in Georgia, Tennessee, and Alabama--peoples
who in their day of necessity could hope to find new homes only by long migrations past the
settled river districts that lay upon their western frontiers.

Of these encircled tribes, four were of chief importance: the Creeks, the Cherokees, the Choctaws,
and the Chickasaws. In 1825 the Creeks numbered twenty thousand, and held between five and
six million acres of land in western Georgia and eastern Alabama. The Cherokees numbered about
nine thousand and had even greater areas, mainly in northwestern Georgia, but to some extent
also in northeastern Alabama and southeastern Tennessee. The Choctaws, numbering twenty-one
thousand, and the Chickasaws, numbering thirty-six hundred, together held upwards of sixteen
million acres in Mississippi--approximately the northern half of the State--and a million and
a quarter acres in western Alabama. The four peoples thus numbered fifty-three thousand souls,
and held ancestral lands aggregating over thirty-three million acres, or nearly the combined
area of Pennsylvania and New Jersey.

Furthermore, they were no longer savages. The Creeks were the lowest in civilization; but even
they had become more settled and less warlike since their chastisement by Jackson in 1814.
The Choctaws and Chickasaws lived in frame houses, cultivated large stretches of land, operated
workshops and mills, maintained crude but orderly governments, and were gradually accepting
Christianity. Most advanced of all were the Cherokees. As one writer has described them, they
"had horses and cattle, goats, sheep, and swine. They raised maize, cotton, tobacco, wheat,
oats, and potatoes, and traded with their products to New Orleans. They had gardens, and apple
and peach orchards. They had built roads, and they kept inns for travelers. They manufactured
cotton and wool.... One of their number had invented an alphabet for their language. They had
a civil government, imitated from that of the United States." Under these improved conditions
all of the tribes were growing in numbers and acquiring vested rights which it would be increasingly
difficult to deny or to disregard.

A good while before Jackson entered the White House the future of these large, settled, and
prosperous groups of red men began to trouble the people of Georgia, Alabama, and other Southern
States. The Indians made but little use of the major part of their land; vast tracts lay untrodden
save by hunters. Naturally, as the white population grew and the lands open for settlement
became scarcer and poorer, the rich tribal holdings were looked upon with covetous eyes. In
the decade following the War of 1812, when cotton cultivation was spreading rapidly over the
southern interior, the demand that they be thrown open for occupation to white settlers became
almost irresistible.

Three things, obviously, could happen. The tribes could be allowed to retain permanently their
great domains, while the white population flowed in around them; or the lands could be opened
to the whites under terms looking to a peaceful intermingling of the two peoples; or the tribes
could be induced or compelled to move en masse to new homes beyond the Mississippi. The third
plan was the only one ever considered by most people to be feasible, although it offered great
difficulties and was carried out only after many delays.

The State which felt the situation most keenly was Georgia, partly because there an older and
denser population pressed more eagerly for new lands, partly--it must be admitted--because
lands obtained by cession were, under the practice of that State, distributed among the people
by lottery. The first move in this direction was to dispossess the Creeks. As far back as 1802,
when Georgia made her final cession of western lands to United States, the latter agreed to
extinguish the Indian title to lands within the State whenever it could be done "peaceably
and on reasonable terms." This pledge the Georgians never allowed the federal authorities to
forget. After 1815 several large tracts were liberated. But by that date the State wanted unbroken
jurisdiction over all of the territory within her limits, and her complaints of laxness on
the part of the Federal Government in bringing this about became no less frequent than vigorous.

Near the close of his Administration President Monroe sent two commissioners to procure a general
cession; and at Indian Spring a treaty was concluded in which the Creeks ceded practically
all of their lands between the Flint and the Chattahoochee rivers. The Senate ratified the
treaty, and the Georgians were elated. But investigation showed that the Creeks who stood behind
the agreement represented only an insignificant fraction of the nation, and President Adams
refused to allow Troup, the irate Georgian Governor, to proceed with the intended occupation
until further negotiations should have taken place. Stormy exchanges of views followed, in
the course of which the Governor more than once reminded Adams that Georgia was "sovereign
on her own soil." But in 1826 and 1827 treaties were obtained finally extinguishing Creek titles
in the State. Land west of the Mississippi was promised to all Creeks who would go there.

The problem of the Cherokees was more difficult. By a series of treaties beginning in 1785
the United States had recognized this people as a nation, capable of making peace and war,
of owning the lands within its boundaries, and of governing and punishing its own citizens
by its own laws. At the close of Jefferson's second Administration the tribe seriously considered
moving west of the Mississippi, and shortly after the War of 1812 most of the northern members
resident in Tennessee took the long-deferred step. The refusal of the Georgia members to go
with the Tenneseeans disappointed the land-hungry whites, and from that time the authorities
of the State labored incessantly both to break down the notion that the Cherokees were a "nation"
to be dealt with through diplomatic channels, and to extend over them, in effect, the full
sovereignty of the State. In December, 1828, the Legislature took the bold step of enacting
that all white persons in the Cherokee territory should be subject to the laws of Georgia;
that after June 1, 1830, all Indians resident in this territory should be subject to such laws
as might be prescribed for them by the State; and that after this date all laws made by the
Cherokee Government should be null and void.

When Jackson became President he found on his desk a vigorous protest against this drastic
piece of legislation. But appeal to him was useless. He was on record as believing, in common
with most southwesterners, that Georgia had a rightful jurisdiction over her Indian lands;
and his Secretary of War, Eaton, was instructed to say to the Cherokee representatives that
their people would be expected either to yield to Georgia's authority or to remove beyond the
Mississippi. In his first annual message, on December 8, 1829, the President set forth the
principles that guided him from first to last in dealing with the Indian problem. It would
be greatly to the interest of the Indians themselves, he said, to remove to the ample lands
that would be set apart for them permanently in the West, where each tribe could have its own
home and its own government, subject to no control by the United States except for the maintenance
of peace on the frontier and among the tribes. Forcible removal was not to be contemplated;
that would be cruel and unjust. But every effort was to be made to bring about a voluntary
migration. One thing was to be clearly understood: any tribe or group that chose to remain
in Georgia must submit to the laws of the State and yield its claim to all land which had not
been improved. The President was not indifferent to the well-being of the red men; but he refused
to recognize the Cherokees as a "nation" having "rights" as against either Georgia or the United
States. A few weeks after the message was received Congress passed a bill creating an Indian
reservation beyond the Mississippi and appropriating five hundred thousand dollars to aid in
the removal of such Indians as should choose to accept the offer of the Government.

The outlook for the Cherokees was now dark. Both the executive and legislative branches of
the Federal Government were committed to a policy which offered only the alternatives of removal
or subjection; and, thus encouraged, the Georgia Legislature voted to proceed with the extension
of the full authority of the State over both the Cherokees and the Creeks after June 1, 1830.
To make matters worse, the discovery of gold in the northeastern corner of the State in 1829
brought down upon the Cherokee lands a horde of scrambling, lawless fortune seekers, numbered
already in 1830 by the thousand. None the less, the Cherokee opposition stiffened. The Indian
legislative council voted that all who accepted lands beyond the Mississippi and settled on
them should forfeit their tribal membership, that those who sold their individual property
to emigrate should be flogged, and that those who voted to sell a part or all of the tribal
possessions should be put to death.

One resource remained to be exhausted in defense of the Indian claims; this was the courts.
But here again things went unfavorably. After many delays a test case, Cherokee Nation vs.
State of Georgia, was placed upon the docket of the Supreme Court. The bill set forth the plaintiff
to be "the Cherokee Nation of Indians, a foreign State, not owning allegiance to the United
States, nor to any State of this union, nor to any prince, potentate, or State other than their
own," and it asked that the Court declare null the Georgia Acts of 1828 and 1829 and enjoin
the Georgia officials from interfering with Cherokee lands, mines, and other property, or with
the persons of Cherokees on account of anything done by them within the Cherokee territory.
The Indians were represented before the Court by two attorneys, one of them being William Wirt;
Georgia employed no counsel. The opinion of the Court as announced at the January term, 1831,
by Chief Justice Marshall was that while the Cherokee nation was a State and had uniformly
been dealt with as such by the Federal Government since 1789, it was not a "foreign State"
within the meaning of the Constitution, and therefore was not entitled to sue in that character
in the courts of the United States. "If it be true," the decision concluded, "that wrongs have
been inflicted and that still greater are to be apprehended, this is not the tribunal which
can redress the past or prevent the future. The motion for an injunction is denied."

The case was thus thrown out of court. Yet the Cherokees were recognized as a "domestic, dependent"
nation, and there was nothing in the decision to indicate that the extension of the laws of
Georgia over them was valid and constitutional. Indeed, in a second case that came up shortly,
Worcester vs. State of Georgia, the Court strongly backed up the Indians' contention. Worcester
was a Presbyterian missionary who was imprisoned for violation of a Georgia statute forbidding
white persons to reside in the Cherokee territory without a license. The case was appealed
to the Supreme Court, and in the decision of March 10, 1832, Marshall affirmed the status of
the Cherokees as a "nation" within whose territory "the laws of Georgia can have no force,
and which the citizens of Georgia have no right to enter but with the assent of the Cherokees
themselves or in conformity with treaties and with the acts of Congress." The statute was accordingly
declared to be unconstitutional and Worcester was ordered to be discharged.

This ought to have been enough to protect the Cherokees in their rights. But it was not, and
for two reasons: the contempt of Georgia for the Court's opinions, and the refusal of Jackson
to restrain the State in its headstrong course. Already the state authorities had refused to
take notice of a writ of error to the Supreme Court sued out in December, 1830, in behalf of
a condemned Cherokee, Corn Tassel, and had permitted the execution of the unfortunate redskin.
The state court now refused to issue a writ of habeas corpus in behalf of Worcester, and the
prisoner was held--precisely as if the law under which he was convicted had been pronounced
constitutional--until he was pardoned by the Governor a year later.

This action on the part of the State was, of course, nothing less than nullification. Yet Jackson
did not lift a finger. "John Marshall has made his decision," he is reported to have said;
"now let him enforce it." The South Carolinians were quick to seize upon the inconsistencies
of the situation. Nullification in their State was apparently one thing; in Georgia, quite
another. The very fact, however, that the Georgians had successfully defied the federal Supreme
Court did much to encourage their neighbors in a course of similar boldness. Jackson's leniency
toward Georgia has never been wholly explained. He was undoubtedly influenced by his sympathy
with the purpose of the State to establish its jurisdiction over all lands within its borders.
Furthermore he cherished an antipathy for Marshall which even led him to refuse in 1835 to
attend a memorial meeting in the great jurist's honor. But these considerations do not wholly
cover the case. All that the historian can say is that the President chose to take notice of
the threats and acts of South Carolina and to ignore the threats and acts of Georgia, without
ever being troubled by the inconsistency of his course. His political career affords many such
illustrations of the arbitrary and even erratic character of his mind.

Meanwhile the great Indian migration was setting in. Emulating the example of Georgia, Alabama
and Mississippi extended their laws over all of the Indian lands within their boundaries; and
in all parts of the South the red folk--some of them joyously, but most of them sorrowfully--prepared
to take up their long journey. In 1832 the Creeks yielded to the United States all of their
remaining lands east of the Mississippi. By the spring of 1833 the Choctaws and Chickasaws
had done the same thing and were on their way westward. Only the Cherokees remained, and in
his message of December 3, 1833, Jackson reiterated his earlier arguments for their removal.
Realizing that further resistance was useless, a portion of the tribe signified its readiness
to go. The remainder, however, held out, and it was only at the close of 1835 that the long-desired
treaty of cession could be secured. All Cherokee lands east of the Mississippi were now relinquished
to the United States, which agreed to pay five million dollars for them, to provide an adequate
home in the new Indian Territory created by Congress during the preceding year, and to bear
all the costs of removing the tribe thither.

It was not alone the South, however, that witnessed widespread displacements of Indian populations
in the Jacksonian period. How the Black Hawk War of 1832 grew out of, and in turn led to, removals
in the remoter Northwest has been related in another volume in this series.[13] And, in almost
every western State, surviving Indian titles were rapidly extinguished. With little delay the
Cherokees, too, were added to this list, although a group of irreconcilables resisted until
1838, when they were forcibly ejected by a contingent of United States troops under General
Winfield Scott.

All of this was done not without strong protest from other people besides the Indians. Some
who objected did so for political effect. When Clay and Calhoun, for example, thundered in
the Senate against the removal treaties, they were merely seeking to discredit the Administration;
both held views on Indian policy which were substantially the same as Jackson's. But there
was also objection on humanitarian grounds; and the Society of Friends and other religious
bodies engaged in converting and educating the southern tribes used all possible influence
to defeat the plan of removal. On the whole, however, the country approved what was being done.
People felt that the further presence of large, organized bodies of natives in the midst of
a rapidly growing white population, and of tribes setting themselves up as quasi-independent
nations within the bounds of the States, was an anomaly that could not last; and they considered
that, distressing as were many features of the removals, both white man and red man would ultimately
be better off.

CHAPTER XI

THE JACKSONIAN SUCCESSION

"Oh, hang General Jackson," exclaimed Fanny Kemble one day, after dinner, in the cabin of the
ship that brought her, in the summer of 1832, to the United States. Even before she set foot
on our shores, the brilliant English actress was tired of the din of politics and bored by
the incessant repetition of the President's name. Subsequently she was presented at the White
House and had an opportunity to form her own opinion of the "monarch" whose name and deeds
were on everybody's lips; and the impression was by no means unfavorable. "Very tall and thin
he was," says her journal, "but erect and dignified; a good specimen of a fine old, well-battered
soldier; his manners perfectly simple and quiet, and, therefore, very good."

Small wonder that the name of Jackson was heard wherever men and women congregated in 1832!
Something more than half of the people of the country were at the moment trying to elect the
General to a second term as President, and something less than half were putting forth their
best efforts to prevent such a "calamity." Three years of Jacksonian rule had seen the civil
service revolutionized, the Cabinet banished from its traditional place in the governmental
system, and the conduct of the executive branch given a wholly new character and bent. Internal
improvements had been checked by the Maysville Road veto. The United States Bank had been given
a blow, through another veto, which sent it staggering. Political fortunes had been made and
unmade by a wave of the President's hand. The first attempt of a State to put the stability
of the Union to the test had brought the Chief Executive dramatically into the role of defender
of the nation's dignity and perpetuity. No previous President had so frequently challenged
the attention of the public; none had kept himself more continuously in the forefront of political
controversy.

Frail health and close application to official duties prevented Jackson from traveling extensively
during his eight years in the White House. He saw the Hermitage but once in this time, and
on but one occasion did he venture far from the capital. This was in the summer of 1833, when
he toured the Middle States and New England northward as far as Concord, New Hampshire. Accompanied
by Van Buren, Lewis Cass, Levi Woodbury, and other men of prominence, the President set off
from Washington in early June. At Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York, and intervening cities
the party was received with all possible demonstrations of regard. Processions moved through
crowded streets; artillery thundered salutes; banquet followed banquet; the enthusiasm of the
masses was unrestrained. At New York the furnishings of the hotel suite occupied by the President
were eventually auctioned off as mementoes of the occasion.

New England was, in the main, enemy country. None the less, the President was received there
with unstinted goodwill. Edward Everett said that only two other men had ever been welcomed
in Boston as Jackson was. They were Washington and La Fayette. The President's determined stand
against nullification was fresh in mind, and the people, regardless of party, were not slow
to express their appreciation. Their cordiality was fully reciprocated. "He is amazingly tickled
with the Yankees," reports a fellow traveler more noted for veracity than for elegance of speech,
"and the more he sees on 'em, the better he likes 'em. 'No nullification here,' says he. 'No,'
says I, 'General; Mr. Calhoun would stand no more chance down east than a stumped-tail bull
in fly time.'"

To the infinite disgust of John Quincy Adams, Harvard University conferred upon the distinguished
visitor the honorary degree of doctor of laws. In the course of the ceremony one of the seniors
delivered, in Latin, a salutatory concluding with the words: "Harvard welcomes Jackson the
President. She embraces Jackson the Patriot." "A splendid compliment, sir, a splendid compliment,"
declared the honored guest after Woodbury had translated the phrases for his benefit; "but
why talk about so live a thing as patriotism in a dead language?" At the close of the exercises
the students filed past the President and were introduced to him, each greeting him, "to the
infinite edification and amusement of the grizzly old warrior," by his new title Doctor Jackson.
The wits of the opposition lost no opportunity to poke fun at the President's accession to
the brotherhood of scholars. As he was closing a speech some days later an auditor called out,
"You must give them a little Latin, Doctor." In nowise abashed, the President solemnly doffed
his hat again, stepped to the front of the platform, and resumed: "E pluribus unum, my friends,
sine qua non!"

Life at the White House, as one writer has remarked, lost under Jackson something of the good
form of the Virginia regime, but it lost nothing of the air of domesticity. Throughout the
two Administrations the mistress of the mansion was Mrs. Andrew Jackson Donelson, wife of the
President's secretary and in every respect a very capable woman. Of formality there was little
or none. Major Lewis was a member of the presidential household, and other intimates--Van Buren,
Kendall, Blair, Hill--dropped in at anytime, "before breakfast, or in the evening, as inclination
prompted." The President was always accessible to callers, whether or not their business was
important. Yet he found much time, especially in the evenings, for the enjoyment of his long
reed pipe with red clay bowl, in the intimacy of the White House living room, with perhaps
a Cabinet officer to read dispatches or other state papers to him in a corner, while the ladies
sewed and chatted and half a dozen children played about the room.

Social affairs there were, of course. But they were simple enough to please the most ardent
Jeffersonian--much too simple to please people accustomed to somewhat rigorous etiquette. Thus
George Bancroft, who had the reputation of being one of Washington's most punctilious gentlemen,
thought well of Jackson's character but very poorly of his levees. In describing a White House
reception which he attended in 1831, he wrote:

"The old man stood in the center of a little circle, about large enough for a cotillion, and
shook hands with everybody that offered. The number of ladies who attended was small; nor were
they brilliant. But to compensate for it there was a throng of apprentices, boys of all ages,
men not civilized enough to walk about the room with their hats off; the vilest promiscuous
medley that ever was congregated in a decent house; many of the lowest gathering round the
doors, pouncing with avidity upon the wine and refreshments, tearing the cake with the ravenous
keenness of intense hunger; starvelings, and fellows with dirty faces and dirty manners; all
the refuse that Washington could turn forth from its workshops and stables."

The "people" still ruled. Yet it was only the public receptions that presented such scenes
of disorder. The dinners which the President occasionally gave were well appointed. A Philadelphia
gentleman who was once invited to the White House with two or three friends testifies that
"the dinner was very neat and served in excellent taste, while the wines were of the choicest
qualities. The President himself dined on the simplest fare: bread, milk, and vegetables."

Jackson was never a rich man, and throughout his stay in the White House he found it no easy
matter to make ends meet. He entertained his personal friends and official guests royally.
He lavished hospitality upon the general public, sometimes spending as much as a thousand or
fifteen hundred dollars on a single levee. He drew a sharp line between personal and public
expenditures, and met out of his own pocket outlays that under administrations both before
and after were charged to the public account. He loaned many thousands of dollars, in small
amounts, to needy friends, to old comrades in arms, and especially to widows and orphans of
his soldiery and of his political supporters; and a large proportion of these debts he not
only never collected but actually forgot. Receipts from the Hermitage farm during his years
of absence were small, and fire in 1834 made necessary a rebuilding of the family residence
at considerable cost. The upshot was that when, in 1837, the General was preparing to leave
Washington, he had to scrape together every available dollar in cash, and in addition pledge
the cotton crop of his plantation six months ahead for a loan of six thousand dollars, in order
to pay the bills outstanding against him in the capital.

Meanwhile the country came to the election of 1836. From the time of Van Buren's withdrawal
from the Cabinet in 1831 to become, with Jackson's full approval, a candidate for the vice
presidency, there never was doubt that the New Yorker would be the Democratic presidential
nominee in 1836, or that his election would mean a continuation, in most respects, of the Jacksonian
regime. Never did a President more clearly pick his successor. There was, of course, some protest
within the party. Van Buren was not popular, and it required all of the personal and official
influence that the President could bring to bear, backed up by judicious use of the patronage,
to carry his program through. At that, his own State rebelled and, through a resolution of
the Legislature, put itself behind the candidacy of Senator Hugh L. White. The bold actions
of his second Administration, defiant alike of precedent and opposition, had alienated many
of the President's more intelligent and conservative followers. Yet the allegiance of the masses
was unshaken; and when the Democratic convention assembled at Baltimore in May, 1835,--a year
and a half before the election--the nomination of Van Buren was secured without a dissenting
vote. There was no need to adopt a platform; everybody understood that Jackson's policies were
the platform, and that Jackson himself was as truly before the electorate as if he had been
a candidate for a third term. In his letter of acceptance Van Buren met all expectations by
declaring his purpose "to tread generally in the footsteps of President Jackson."

The anti-Administration forces entered the campaign with no flattering prospects. Since 1832
their opposition to "executive usurpation" had won for them a new party name, "Whig." But neither
their opposition nor any other circumstance had given them party solidarity. National Republicans,
anti-Masons, converted Jacksonians, state rights men--upon what broad and constructive platform
could they hope to unite? They had no lack of able presidential aspirants. There was Clay,
the National Republican candidate in 1832; there was Webster, of whom Jackson once said that
he would never be President because he was "too far east, knows too much, and is too honest";
and there were lesser lights, such as Judge John McLean. But, again, how could the many discordant
groups be rallied to the support of any single leader?

Jackson predicted in 1834 that his opponents would nominate William Henry Harrison, because
"they have got to take up a soldier; they have tried orators enough." The prophecy was a shrewd
one, and in 1840 it was fulfilled to the letter. Upon the present occasion, however, the leaders
decided to place no single nominee in the field, but rather to bring forward a number of candidates
who could be expected to develop local strength and so to split the vote as to throw the final
choice into the House of Representatives. This seemed the only hope of circumventing Van Buren's
election. Four sectional candidates entered the race: Webster was backed by New England; the
Northwest united on Harrison; the Southwest joined the Tennessee revolters in support of White;
Ohio had her own candidate in the person of McLean.

The plan was ingenious, but it did not work. Van Buren received 170 electoral votes against
124 in spite of his opponents. He carried fifteen of the twenty-six States, including four
in New England. Harrison received 73 votes, White 26 (including those of Tennessee), and Webster
14. South Carolina refused to support any of the candidates on either side and threw away her
votes on W.P. Mangum of North Carolina. The Democrats kept control of both branches of Congress.

Victory, therefore, rested with the Jacksonians--which means with Jackson himself. The Democrats
would have control of both the executive and legislative branches of the Government for some
years to come; the Bank would not soon be re-chartered; the veto power would remain intact;
federal expenditure upon internal improvements had been curbed, and the "American system" had
been checked; the national debt was discharged and revenue was superabundant; Jackson could
look back over the record of his Administrations with pride and forward to the rule of "Little
Van" with satisfaction. "When I review the arduous administration through which I have passed,"
declared the President soon after the results of the election were made known, "the formidable
opposition, to its very close, of the combined talents, wealth, and power of the whole aristocracy
of the United States, aided as it is by the moneyed monopolies of the whole country with their
corrupting influence, with which we had to contend, I am truly thankful to my God for this
happy result."

Congress met on the 5th of December for the closing session of the Administration. The note
of victory pervaded the President's message. Yet there was one more triumph to be won: the
resolution of censure voted by the Senate in 1834 was still officially on the record book.
Now it was that Benton finally procured the passage of his expunging resolution, although not
until both branches of Congress had been dragged into controversy more personal and acrid,
if possible, than any in the past eight years. The action taken was probably unconstitutional.
But Jackson's "honor" was vindicated, and that was all that he and his friends saw, or cared
to see, in the proceeding. As early as 1831 the President conceived the idea of issuing a farewell
address to the people upon the eve of his retirement; and a few weeks before the election of
Van Buren he sent to Taney a list of subjects which he proposed to touch upon in the document,
requesting him to "throw on paper" his ideas concerning them. The address was issued on March
4, 1837, and followed closely the copy subsequently found in Taney's hand writing in the Jackson
manuscripts. Its contents were thoroughly commonplace, being indeed hardly more than a resume
of the eight annual messages; and it might well have been dismissed as the amiable musings
of a garrulous old man. But nothing associated with the name of Jackson ever failed to stir
controversy. The Whigs ridiculed the egotism which underlay the palpable imitation of Washington.
"Happily," said the New York American, "it is the last humbug which the mischievous popularity
of this illiterate, violent, vain, and iron-willed soldier can impose upon a confiding and
credulous people." The Democrats, however, lauded the address, praised the wisdom and sincerity
of its author, and laid away among their most valued mementoes the white satin copies which
admiring friends scattered broadcast over the country.

Showered with evidences of undiminished popularity, the General came down to his last day in
office. One enthusiast sent him a light wagon made entirely of hickory sticks with the bark
upon them. Another presented a phaeton made of wood taken from the old frigate Constitution.
A third capped the climax by forwarding from New York a cheese four feet in diameter, two feet
thick, and weighing fourteen hundred pounds--twice as large, the Globe fondly pointed out,
as the cheese presented to Jefferson under similar circumstances a quarter of a century earlier.
From all parts of the country came callers, singly and in delegations, to pay their respects
and to assure the outgoing Chief of their goodwill and admiration. March 4,1837, was a raw,
disagreeable day. But Jackson, pale and racked by disease, rode with his chosen successor to
the place where he had himself assumed office eight years before, and sat uncovered while the
oath was administered and the inaugural delivered. The suave, elegantly dressed Van Buren was
politely applauded as the new Chief to whom respect was due. But it was the tall, haggard,
white-haired soldier-politician who had put Van Buren where he was who awoke the spontaneous
enthusiasm of the crowds.

Three days after the inauguration Jackson started for the Hermitage. His trip became a series
of ovations, and he was obliged several times to pause for rest. At last he reached Nashville,
where once again, as in the old days of the Indian wars, he was received with an acclaim deeply
tinged by personal friendship and neighborly pride. A great banquet in his honor was presided
over by James K. Polk, now Speaker of the national House of Representatives; and the orators
vied one with another in extolling his virtues and depicting his services to the country. Then
Jackson went on to the homestead whose seclusion he coveted.

No one knew better than the ex-President himself that his course was almost run. He was seventy
years of age and seldom free from pain for an hour. He considered himself, moreover, a poor
man--mainly, it appears, because he went back to Tennessee owing ten thousand dollars and with
only ninety dollars in his pockets. He was, however, only "land poor," for his plantation of
twenty-six hundred acres was rich and valuable, and he had a hundred and forty slaves--"servants"
he always called them--besides large numbers of horses and cattle. A year or two of thrifty
supervision brought his lands and herds back to liberal yields; his debts were soon paid off;
and notwithstanding heavy outlays for his adopted son, whose investments invariably turned
out badly, he was soon able to put aside all anxiety over pecuniary matters.

Established again in his old home, surrounded by congenial relatives and friends, respected
by neighbors without regard to politics, and visited from time to time by notable foreigners
and Americans, Jackson found much of satisfaction in his declining years. For a time he fully
lived up to the promise made to Benton and Blair that he would keep clear of politics. His
interest in the fortunes of his party, however, was not diminished by his retirement from public
life. He corresponded freely with Van Buren, whose policies he in most respects approved; and
as the campaign of 1840 approached the "old war-horse began once more to sniff the battle from
afar." Admitting to his friends that the situation looked "a little dubious," he exerted himself
powerfully to bring about the reelection of the New Yorker. He wrote a letter belittling the
military qualities of the Whig candidate, thereby probably doing the Democratic cause more
harm than good; and finally, to avert the humiliation of a Whig victory in Tennessee, he "took
the stump" and denounced the enemy up and down through all western Tennessee and southern Kentucky.
But "Tippecanoe and Tyler too" was too much for him; the Whig candidates carried both Tennessee
and Kentucky and won the nation-wide contest by 234 to 60 electoral votes.

The old warrior took the defeat--his defeat, he always regarded it--philosophically, and at
once began to lay plans for a recovery of Democratic supremacy in 1844. For another quadrennium
his hand was on the party throttle. When men speculated as to whether Van Buren, General Cass,
General Butler, or Senator Benton would be the standard bearer in 1844, they always asked what
Jackson's edict on the subject would be; and the final selection of James K. Polk, while not
fully dictated by the ex-President, was the result of a compromise in which his advice played
a prominent part. Though past seventy-seven and hardly able to sign his name, Jackson threw
himself into the campaign and undoubtedly contributed to the election of his fellow-Tenneseean.
His satisfaction with the outcome and with the annexation of Texas which quickly followed found
expression in a barbecue attended by all the Democrats of the neighborhood and by some of note
from a distance. "We have restored the Government to sound principles," declared the host in
a brief, faltering speech from the Hermitage portico, "and extended the area of our institutions
to the Rio Grande. Now for Oregon and Fifty-four-forty."

Oregon--although not to fifty-four forty--was soon to be duly made American soil. But Jackson
did not live to witness the event. Early in 1845 his health began to fail rapidly and on the
very day of Polk's inauguration he was at the point of death. Rallying, he struggled manfully
for three months against the combined effects of consumption, dropsy, and dysentery. But on
Sunday, the 8th of June, the end came. In accordance with a pledge which he had given his wife
years before, he had become a communicant of the Presbyterian church; and his last words to
the friends about his bedside were messages of Christian cheer. After two days the body was
laid to rest in the Hermitage garden, beside the grave of the companion whose loss he had never
ceased to mourn with all the feeling of which his great nature was capable. The authorities
at the national capital ordered public honors to be paid to the ex-President, and gatherings
in all parts of the country listened with much show of feeling to appropriate eulogies.

"General Jackson," said Daniel Webster to Thurlow Weed in 1837, "is an honest and upright man.
He does what he thinks is right, and does it with all his might. He has a violent temper, which
leads him often to hasty conclusions. It also causes him to view as personal to himself the
public acts of other men. For this reason there is great difference between Jackson angry and
Jackson in good humor. When he is calm, his judgment is good; when angry, it is usually bad....
His patriotism is no more to be questioned than that of Washington. He is the greatest General
we have and, except Washington, the greatest we ever had."

To this characterization of Andrew Jackson by his greatest American contemporary it is impossible
to make noteworthy addition. His was a character of striking contradictions. His personal virtues
were honesty, bravery, open-heartedness, chivalry toward women, hospitality, steadfastness.
His personal faults were irascibility, egotism, stubbornness, vindictiveness, and intolerance
of the opinions of others. He was not a statesman; yet some of the highest qualities of statesmanship
were in him. He had a perception of the public will which has rarely been surpassed; and in
most, if not all, of the great issues of his time he had a grasp of the right end of the question.

The country came to the belief that the National Bank should not be revived. It accepted and
perpetuated Van Buren's independent treasury plan. The annexation of Texas, which Jackson strongly
favored, became an accomplished fact with the approval of a majority of the people. The moderated
protective tariff to which Jackson inclined was kept up until the Civil War. The removal of
the Indians to reservations beyond the Mississippi fell in with the views of the public upon
that subject and inaugurated an Indian policy which was closely adhered to for more than half
a century. In his vindication of executive independence Jackson broke new ground, crudely enough
it is true; yet, whatever the merits of his ideas at the moment, they reshaped men's conception
of the presidency and helped make that office the power that it is today. The strong stand
taken against nullification clarified popular opinion upon the nature of the Union and lent
new and powerful support to national vigor and dignity.

Over against these achievements must be placed the introduction of the Spoils System, which
debauched the Civil Service and did the country lasting harm; yet Jackson only responded to
public opinion which held "rotation in office to be the cardinal principle of democracy." It
needed a half-century of experience to convince the American people of this fallacy and to
place the national Civil Service beyond the reach of spoilsmen. Even now public opinion is
slow to realize that efficiency in office can be secured only by experience and relative permanence.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

The events of the period covered in this volume are described with some fullness in all of
the general American histories. Of these, two are especially noteworthy for literary quality
and other elements of popular interest: Woodrow Wilson's History of the American People, 5
vols. (1902), and John B. McMaster's History of the People of the United States, 8 vols. (1883-1913).
The Jacksonian epoch is treated in Wilson's fourth volume and in McMaster's fifth and sixth
volumes. On similar lines, but with more emphasis on political and constitutional matters,
is James Schouler's History of the United States under the Constitution, 7 vols. (1880-1913),
vols. III-IV. One seeking a scholarly view of the period, in an adequate literary setting,
can hardly do better, however, than to read Frederick J. Turner's Rise of the New West (1906)
and William MacDonald's Jacksonian Democracy (1906). These are volumes XIV and XV in The American
Nation, edited by Albert B. Hart.

Biographies are numerous and in a number of instances excellent. Of lives of Jackson, upwards
of a dozen have been published. The most recent and in every respect the best is John S. Bassett's
Life of Andrew Jackson, 2 vols. (1911). This work is based throughout on the sources; its literary
quality is above the average and it appraises Jackson and his times in an unimpeachable spirit
of fairness. Within very limited space, William G. Brown's Andrew Jackson (1900) tells the
story of Jackson admirably; and a good biography, marred only by a lack of sympathy and by
occasional inaccuracy in details, is William G. Sumner's Andrew Jackson (rev. ed., 1899). Of
older biographies, the most important is James Parton's Life of Andrew Jackson, 3 vols. (1861).
This work is sketchy, full of irrelevant or unimportant matter, and uncritical; but for a half-century
it was the repository from which historians and biographers chiefly drew in dealing with Jackson's
epoch. John H. Eaton's Life of Andrew Jackson (1842) describes Jackson's earlier career, mainly
on the military side; but it never rises above the level of a campaign document.

Among biographies of Jackson's contemporaries may be mentioned George T. Curtis, Life of Daniel
Webster, 2 vols. (1870); Henry C. Lodge, Daniel Webster (1883); John B. McMaster, Daniel Webster
(1902); Frederic A. Ogg, Daniel Webster (1914); Carl Schurz, Henry Clay, 2 vols.

On many topics the reader will do well to go to monographs or other special works. The history
of the bank controversy is best told in Ralph C. H. Catterall, The Second Bank of the United
States (1903); and interesting chapters in the country's financial history are presented in
Edward G. Bourne, History of the Surplus Revenue of 1837 (1885), and David Kinley, The History,
Organization, and Influence of the Independent Treasury of the United States (1893).

Aside from newspapers, and from collections of public documents of private correspondence,
which cannot be enumerated here, the source materials for the period fall into two main classes:
books of autobiography and reminiscence, and the writings of travelers. (1854). Benton was
an active member of the Senate throughout the Jacksonian period, and his book gives an interesting
and valuable first-hand account of the public affairs of the time. Amos Kendall's Autobiography
(1872) is, unfortunately, hardly more than a collection of papers and scattered memoranda.
Other books of contemporary reminiscence are Lyman Beecher's Autobiography, 2 vols. (1863-65);
Robert Mayo's Political Sketches of Eight Years in Washington (1839); and S.C. Goodrich's Recollections
of a Lifetime, 2 vols. (1856). All things considered, there is no more important nonofficial
source for the period.

In Jackson's day the United States was visited by an extraordinary number of Europeans who
forthwith wrote books descriptive of what they had seen. Two of the most interesting--although
the least flattering--of these works are Charles Dickens's American Notes for General Circulation
(1842, and many reprints) and Mrs. Frances E. Trollope's Domestic Manners of the Americans
(1832). Two very readable and generally sympathetic English accounts are Frances A. Kemble's
Journal, 1832-1833, 2 vols. (1835) and Harriet Martineau's Society in America, 3 vols. (2d
ed., 1837). The principal French work of the sort is M. Chevalier, Society, Manners, and Politics
in the United States (Eng. trans, from 3d French ed., 1839). Political conditions in the country
are described in Alexis de Tocqueville, Democracy in America (Eng. trans, by Reeve in 2 vols.,
1862), and the economic situation is set forth in detail in James S. Buckingham, America, Historical,
Statistical and Descriptive, 2 vols. (1841), and The Slave States of America, 2 vols. (1842).

NOTES

[1: Bassett, The Life of Andrew Jackson, vol. I, p. 123.]

[2: Brown, Andrew Jackson, pp. 75-76.]

[3: Buell, History of Andrew Jackson, vol. n, pp. 94-95.]

[4: Buell, History of Andrew Jackson, vol. II, p. 97.]

[5: Turner, Rise of the New West, p. 188.]

[6: Turner, Rise of the New West, p. 268.]

[7: Parton, Life of Andrew Jackson, vol. III, p. 168.]

[8: Brown, Andrew Jackson, p. 127.]

[9: Osborn vs. Bank of the United States.]

[10: MacDonald, Jacksonian Democracy, p. 98.]

[11: Turner, The Rise of the New West, p. 325.]

[12: MacDonald. Jacksonian Democracy, p. 239.]

[13: See The Old Northwest, by Frederic Austin Ogg (in The Chronicles of America).]

INDEX

Adams, John, Jackson makes acquaintance of, 17.

Adams, J.Q., Secretary of State, and Jackson's Florida expedition,
     62, 63, 64.
  candidate for presidency, 76-77, 82-83, 84, 86, 87, 88-93.
  and Jackson, 80, 93-94, 108, 122, 220.
  diary quoted, 88, 109.
  "corrupt bargain," 89-92, 96.
  elected, 93.
  as President, 95-100, 104-106.
  personal characteristics, 96-97.
  abolishes patronage, 97-98.
  and internal improvements, 99, 100, 105.
  candidate for reelection (1828), 106, 109-110.
  no enthusiasm for, 113.
  on Calhoun, 139.
  and Indian question, 206.
  biography, 238.

Alabama, Indians in, 202, 203, 204, 214.

Ambrister, Robert, 58.

American, New York, quoted, 229.

Apalachicola River,
  Nicholls builds fort on, 53.
  Jackson's army marches down, 57.

Arbuthnot, Alexander, 53, 58.

Aurora, Pennsylvania newspaper, 193.

Baltimore,
  welcomes Jackson, 64, 219.
  Democratic convention at (1835), 225.

Bancroft, George, quoted, 222.

Bank, United States,
  Jackson's attitude toward, 79, 184-88.
  Adams and, 99.
  established, 138, 182.
  and the South, 140.
  war on, 181-200.
  Congress supports, 187.
  Jackson plans reorganization of, 187.
  bill to recharter, 189-91.
  bill vetoed, 190, 218.
  as political issue, 191.
  believed insolvent by Jackson, 192-93.
  removal of deposits, 193-95.
  senate censures Jackson for removal, 196-98.
  Whigs try to resurrect (1841), 200.
  bibliography, 239.

Barry, W.T., Postmaster-General, 118.

Bassett, J.S.,
  biographer of Jackson, cited, 4, 238.
  quoted, 37.

Benton, Jesse, Jackson encounters, 21, 33.

Benton, T.H., 26, 149, 232, 233.
  Jackson fights with, 21, 33.
  quoted, 49, 113, 167.
  introduces bills against Adams, 105.
  on Van Buren's defeat as minister, 136.
  on Foote's resolution, 144.
  on Hayne, 147.
  and United States Bank question, 190-91, 195.
  and censure of Jackson, 197.
  biography, 238.

Berrien, J.M., Attorney-General, 118.

Biddle, Nicholas, President of United States Bank, 183, 184, 185-86,
     187, 188, 189, 192, 195.

Black Hawk War, 215.

Blair, F.P., editor of the Globe, 130, 193, 221, 232.

Blount, William, 17.
  Governor of Tennessee, 26, 28, 30, 35, 55, 74.

Borgne, Lake, British army at, 40.

Boston,
  endorses Jackson's proclamation to South Carolina, 176.
  welcomes President Jackson, 219.

Bowyer, Fort, British attempt to destroy, 39.

Branch, John, Secretary of Navy, 118.

Brown, Jacob, of New York, 51.

Buchanan, James, author of "corrupt bargain," 90.

Burr, Aaron,
  Jackson makes acquaintance of, 17.
  opinion of Jackson, 73.

Butler, General, 233.

Cabinet, Jackson's, 117-18, 129-130, 135-36, 193-94, 218.
  Kitchen, 130-31.

Cadwalader, General Thomas, 110, 184.

Calhoun, J.C., father makes home at Waxhaw, 5.
  Secretary of War, and Jackson's Florida expedition, 56, 62, 135.
  aspirant for presidency, 77-78, 87, 103, 131.
  Jackson's attitude toward, 80.
  candidate for vice presidency, 84.
  elected, 85.
  described by Adams, 109.
  re-elected to vice presidency, 110.
  Eaton controversy, 132-134.
  against Van Buren, 134.
  sectionalist, 139.
  at Hayne-Webster debate, 149.
  change in political ideas, 159.
  Exposition, 161, 168.
  and nullification, 161, 162, 164-65, 166, 167-68, 171, 172.
  seeks support of South Carolina, 162.
  Address to the People of South Carolina, 168.
  Fort Hill Letter, 168.
  and tariff, 169.
  resigns vice presidency, 172.
  in Senate, 172, 196.
  on Indian policy, 216.
  bibliography, 238.

Calhoun, Mrs. J.C., 134.

Calhoun, Rebecca, marries Andrew Pickens, 5.

Callava, José, Governor of Florida, 58-59, 65, 66, 67.

Campbell, G.W., Senator from Tennessee, 23.

Carrickfergus (Ireland), home of Jackson's father, 1, 9.

Carroll, William, 111.

Cass, Lewis, Secretary of War, 136.
  accompanies Jackson to New England, 219.
  possible candidate for presidency, 233.

Castlereagh, Robert Stewart, Lord Viscount, quoted, 61.

Caucus as nominating device, 81-82, 84.

Charleston (S.C.),
  Andrew Jackson's father arrives at, 1.
  Jackson in, 9-10.
  preparations against, 173.
  nullifiers meet at, 178.

Cherokee Indians, number, 203.
  location, 203.
  civilization, 204.
  and Georgia, 207-13.
  treaty with, 214.
  remainder removed from the East, 215.

Cherokee Nation vs. State of Georgia, 210-11.

Cheves, Langdon,
  exponent of broad constitutional construction, 159.
  President of United States Bank, 183.

Chickasaw Indians,
  number, 203.
  location, 203.
  civilization, 203-204.
  removed, 214.

Cincinnati greets Jackson, 115.

Civil service, Adams and, 97-98.
  bibliography, 239.
  see also Spoils System.

Claiborne, W.C.C., Governor-General and Intendant of Louisiana, 25.

Clay, Henry,
  quoted, 43.
  and Jackson's Florida expedition, 62, 63.
  candidate for presidency (1824), 78, 82, 83, 84, 86, 87, 88.
  and Jackson, 80.
  "corrupt bargain," 89-92, 96.
  Secretary of State, 94, 97, 105.
  and nationalism, 100.
  loses hope of presidency, 109.
  Compromise Tariff, 179.
  and United States Bank, 189, 196.
  on veto power, 190.
  nominee of National Republican party (1832), 191, 225.
  on disposal of proceeds from public lands, 199.
  on removal of Indians, 215-16.

Clayton, J.M., of Delaware, 148.

Clinton, DeWitt, toasted at Tammany dinner, 64.

Cochrane, Sir Alexander Inglis, Admiral, sends news of peace to
    Jackson, 46.

Cocke, General John, 33, 34.

Cohens vs. Virginia, 141.

Columbia (S.C.), ordinance of nullification drawn up at, 170-71, 174.

Columbian Observer of Philadelphia, 89, 90.

Concord (N.H.), Jackson goes to, 219.

Congress, question of Jackson's Florida expedition, 62-63.
  and Adams, 104-05.
  nationalistic laws, 138.
  Webster-Hayne debate, 145-57.
  Force Bill, 177, 179, 180.
  Verplanck Bill, 178.
  and United States Bank, 187, 189-91, 196.
  Senate censures Jackson, 196-98, 228.
  Senate ratifies Indian treaty, 206.
  creates Indian reservation, 209.

Constitution, Adams for liberal construction, 99.
  amendment proposed, 105.
  questions in 1828, 143.
  Webster-Hayne debate, 145-57.

Corn Tassel, Cherokee executed in Georgia, 212.

Cotton, influence of price on sentiment of South Carolina, 159.

Crawford, W.H., at Waxhaw settlement, 5.
  and Jackson, 62, 80.
  supported by Van Buren, 64.
  candidate for presidency, 76, 77, 81, 82, 83, 86.
  health fails, 83-84.
  supporters ally themselves to Jackson, 103.

Creek Indians, and Tecumseh, 25.
  massacre at Fort Mims, 31, 32.
  outbreak in South, 32-36, 52, 54-55.
  treaty with, 37-38.
  number, 203.
  location, 203.
  civilization, 203.
  dispossessed, 205-07, 214.
  see also Creek War, Seminole War.

Creek War, 32-38.

Cumberland River, Jackson's army down the, 28.

Dale, Sam, and Jackson, 174.

Davie, W.R., Governor of North Carolina, 5.

Democratic party, and United States Bank, 195.
  convention (1835), 225.

Dickerson, Mahlon, of New Jersey, 148.

Dickinson, Charles, killed in duel by Jackson, 21.

Donelson, A.J., nephew and private secretary of Jackson, 114, 130.

Donelson, Mrs. A.J., mistress of White House, 114, 221.

Donelson, John,
  helps found Nashville, 12.
  Jackson marries daughter of, 15.

Duane, W.J., Secretary of Treasury, 193-94.

Earl, R.E.W., artist engaged in painting portraits of Jackson, 114.

Eaton, J.H.,
  and Jackson, 7-8, 52, 73, 116, 130.
  Secretary of War, 8, 117, 118, 208.

Eaton, Mrs. J.H., 88, 132-34.

Elections, Presidential, of 1824, 82-93,95-96.
  manner of selecting President an issue of 1824, 84.
  "corrupt bargain," 89-92, 96.
  proposed amendment to Constitution providing direct, 105.
  campaign of 1828,106-10.
  of 1832, 187, 191.
  of 1836, 226-27.
  of 1840, 232.
  of 1844, 233.

England, frontiersman's attitude toward, 25.
  see also War of 1812.

Everett, Edward, cited, 219.

Finance,
  national debt paid, 199.
  Government funds in state banks, 199.
  independent treasury system, 199-200, 235.
  see also Bank, United States. Tariff.

Florida and Jackson, 22, 27-28, 30-31, 39-40, 51-61.
  Southwest longs for conquest of, 26.
  encourages Indian uprising, 32.
  Spain and, 52, 53, 55-56, 61.
  controversy over Jackson's expedition, 61-64.
  United States treaty with Spain, 64.

Foote, S.A., of Connecticut, 144.

Force Bill, 177, 179.
  nullified by South Carolina convention, 180.

Forsyth, John, of Georgia, 149.

Fowltown, fight at, 54, 55.

Franklin, "Western District" tries to set up State of, 12.

Frelinghuysen, Theodore, of New Jersey, 148.

Friends, Society of, protest removal of Indians, 216.

Gaines, General E.P., 54, 55.

Gallatin, Albert,
  Jackson makes acquaintance of, 17.
  describes Jackson, 18.

Gazette, Nashville, 75.

General Neville (river boat), Jackson travels down Ohio on, 101.

Georgia,
  and state rights, 142.
  and tariff, 169.
  Indians of, 202, 203, 204, 205 et seq.
  nullification, 213.

Ghent, Treaty of, 43, 53,137.

Gibbs, General, 40.

Girard Bank of Philadelphia, treasury receipts to be deposited in,
    194.

Globe, administration organ, 130, 230.

Green, Duff,
  party manager for Jackson, 115.
  edits United States Telegraph, 118.
  in Kitchen Cabinet, 130.

Grundy, Felix, of Tennessee, 74, 75, 149.

Hall, D.A., Federal district judge in New Orleans, 47.

Hamilton J.A., 117, 118.

Hamilton, James, Governor of South Carolina, 168, 170, 179.

Harrisburg (Penn.), nominating convention at, 84.

Harrison, W.H.,
  Governor of Indiana, at Tippecanoe, 25.
  Jackson offers aid to, 26.
  resigns commission, 37.
  candidate for presidency, 226-27.

Hartford Convention, 138.

Harvard University confers degree on Jackson, 220.

Havana, Jackson sends Spaniards to, 60.

Hayne, R.Y., 110, 167.
  speech in Congress, 144-45.
  debate with Webster, 145-57.
  personal characteristics, 147.
  change in political ideas, 159, 163.
  and nullification, 162, 176.
  elected Governor of South Carolina, 172.
  biography, 239.

Hermitage, The, Jackson's home, 19-20, 50, 55, 67, 68-72, 102-103,
    218, 223, 231, 233, 234.

Hill, Isaac, 111, 116, 221.
  Senate rejects nomination of, 129.
  in Kitchen Cabinet, 130.
  quoted, 164-65, 181.

Holmes, John, of Maine, 148.

Horseshoe Bend, battle with Creeks at, 35.

Houston, Sam, 35.

Hunter's Hill, Jackson's plantation near Nashville, 15, 19.

Huntsville (Ala.), Jackson brings forces together at, 33.

Indian Queen Tavern (the Wigwam), 115, 120.

Indian Territory created (1834), 214.

Indians, 142.
  hostility near Nashville, 12.
  Creek War, 32-38.
  Seminole War, 54-58.
  removal of, 201-16, 236.
  see also names of tribes.

Ingham, S.D., Secretary of Treasury, 117.

Internal improvements, 138.
  Jackson on, 79.
  issue in 1824, 84.
  Adams and, 99, 100, 105.
  South opposes, 140.
  South Carolina and, 159.
  Maysville Road veto, 218.

Jackson, Andrew, father of the President, 1-3.

Jackson, Andrew,
  birth (1767), 3-4.
  birthplace, 4-5.
  early life, 5 et seq.
  personal characteristics, 6, 7, 11, 15, 18, 19, 20-21, 213, 217,
    234-35.
  education, 7, 10.
  in the Revolution, 8-9.
  attitude toward British, 9.
  business enterprises, 9-10, 19-20.
  in Charleston, 9-10.
  admitted to bar, 11.
  goes to Tennessee, 13-14.
  as "solicitor" in Nashville, 14-16.
  marriage, 15.
  represents Tennessee in Congress, 16-17.
  in Senate, 17-18, 69.
  as judge in Tennessee, 18-19.
  quarrels, 20-21.
  in War of 1812, 26 et seq.
  nicknamed "Old Hickory," 30:
  in Creek War, 33-38.
  at New Orleans, 40-43, 45-50.
  popularity, 45, 50, 63-64, 115, 210, 229-30.
  in Seminole War, and Florida expedition, 55-61.
  controversy about Florida expedition, 61-64.
  as Governor of Florida, 64-67.
  life at the Hermitage, 68-72, 102-03.
  candidate for presidency (1824), 73 et seq., 95.
  and tariff, 79, 143, 162-63, 169, 235-36.
  and Adams, 80, 93-94, 108, 122, 220.
  and Crawford, 80.
  and Clay, 80.
  and Calhoun, 80, 134-35.
  candidate for presidency (1828), 100 et seq.
  resigns from Senate, 102.
  as a politician, 107-08.
  election, 109-10.
  journey to Washington, 114-15.
  as President-elect, 115-19.
  Cabinet, 117-18, 129-30, 135-36, 193-194, 218.
  inauguration, 119-124.
  and Spoils System, 124-127, 236.
  and Congress, 128.
  Kitchen Cabinet, 130-31.
  Eaton controversy, 132-34.
  toast to the Union, 164-66.
  and nullification, 167, 173-77.
  candidate for reelection (1832), 168, 218.
  proclamation to South Carolina (1832), 175-176.
  Force Bill, 177, 179, 180.
  and United States Bank, 182, 184 et seq., 218.
  censured by Senate, 196-98, 228.
  and Indian policy, 208-09, 214-16.
  and Georgia, 213.
  journeys to New England, 219.
  Harvard confers degree on, 220.
  life at White House, 221-23.
  his finances, 223-24.
  political influence, 224-28.
  farewell address, 228-29.
  return to Nashville, 230.
  last years, 231-34.
  death (1845), 234.
  Webster's characterization of, 234-35.
  achievements, 235-36.
  bibliography, 237-38.

Jackson, Mrs. Andrew, mother of the President, 3-4, 5, 8-9.

Jackson, Mrs. Andrew, wife of the President, 48-50, 65, 71, 122.
  quoted, 65-66, 68-69.
  death, 111-12.

Jackson, Fort, 36.
  Treaty of, 54.

Jamaica, British from, 40.

Jefferson, Thomas, Jackson makes acquaintance of, 17.
  on Jackson, 18.
  candidate of the masses, 113.
  and State rights, 139, 141-42, 164.

Jonesboro (Tenn.), Jackson's traveling party at, 13.

Kemble, Fanny, and Jackson, 217.

Kendall, Amos, 221.
  in Kitchen Cabinet, 130.

Kentucky made a State (1791), 16.

Key, F.S., at Jackson's inauguration, 121.

King, W.R., of Alabama, 149.

Kitchen Cabinet, 130-31.

Knoxville (Tenn.), 25.
  convention at, 16.

Kremer, George, and "corrupt bargain," 89-91.

La Fayette, Marquis de, 219.
  and Jackson, 71-72.

Lavasseur, secretary to La Fayette, 70.

Lewis, Major W.B., 63, 125, 129, 134-35.
  campaign manager for Jackson, 74, 75, 85, 103, 111, 112, 163.
  accompanies Jackson to Washington, 114, 116, 221.
  in Kitchen Cabinet, 130.

Livingston, Edward, 48.
  Jackson makes acquaintance of, 17.
  declines place in cabinet, 117.
  Secretary of State, 136.
  and proclamation to South Carolina, 175.
  and United States Bank, 188.
  minister to France, 193.

Lodge, H.C., quoted, 146.

Louisville greets Jackson, 115.

Macay, Spruce, lawyer with whom Jackson studied, 10, 12.

M'Culloch vs. Maryland (1819), 141, 183.

MacDonald, William, Jacksonian Democracy, quoted, 152.

McDuffie, George, 162, 189.

McKemy family at whose home Jackson is said to have been born, 4.

McLane, Louis, Secretary of Treasury, 136.
  and United States Bank, 188, 193.

McLean, John, Postmaster-General, 118.
  candidate for presidency, 226.

McNairy, John, 12-13, 14, 21.

Mangum, W.P., of North Carolina, 227.

Marshall, John, Chief-Justice,
  at Jackson's inauguration, 120, 121.
  and State rights, 138,141.
  on Cherokee nation, 211.
  and Jackson, 213.

Martinsville (N.C.), Jackson practices law at, 11.

Mason, Jeremiah, branch bank president, 185.

Maysville Road veto, 218.

Mims, Fort (Ala.), massacre at, 31, 32, 36.

Mississippi and Indians, 214.

Mississippi Valley, British plan assault on, 38.

Missouri Compromise, 159.

Mobile,
  Jackson and, 29, 37, 39, 57.
  Congress authorizes taking of, 30.

Monroe, Fortress, 173.

Monroe, James, Secretary of War, 40.
  Jackson writes to, 13.
  and Jackson's Florida expedition, 56, 61, 62, 67.
  Jackson supports, 80.
  Adams confers with, 94.
  popular approval of, 95.
  and Indian question, 206.

Monticello, home of Jefferson, 18.

Morganton (N.C.), 25.
  Jackson joins traveling party at, 13.

Nashville (Tenn.),
  founded, 12.
  Jackson goes to, 13-14.
  in 1789, 14.
  Phillips reaches, 25.
  Jackson's army assembles at, 28.
  entertains Jackson, 37, 101.
  Jackson in, 51, 230.

Natchez (Miss.), Jackson's troops in, 29, 30.

National Intelligencer, 62, 89.

National Republican party, 104, 108.
  defends United States Bank, 191, 195.
  joins Whigs, 225.

Negro Fort, Nicholas's, 53, 54, 57.

New England receives President Jackson, 219-20.

New Orleans, news of War of 1812 reaches, 25.
  Jackson and, 28, 37, 39, 40-43, 45-50.
  gunboats sent from, 57.

New Orleans Territory, Jackson denied governorship of, 20.

New York (State) controls vice presidency, 75-76.

New York City,
  fêtes Jackson, 63, 219.
  and nullification, 176.

Nicholls, Colonel Edward, 32, 52-53.

Nolte describes Jackson and his wife, 49-50.

North Carolina,
  claims to be Jackson's birthplace, 4.
  and tariff, 169.

Nullification, 161-80, 236.
  and Jefferson, 142.
  Georgia and, 142, 213.
  South Carolina Exposition, 142.
  Hayne on, 150.
  Webster on, 151, 152-53.
  Calhoun and, 161, 162, 164-165, 166, 167-68, 171, 172.
  Turnbull's Crisis, 161.
  Calhoun's Exposition, 161.
  Jackson and, 167, 173-77, 219.
  South Carolina's ordinance of, 170-171, 179-80.
  Force Bill, 177, 179, 180.
  Compromise Tariff, 178-79.
  bibliography, 239.

Ohio on State rights, 141.

O'Neil, "Peggy," see Eaton, Mrs. J.H.

O'Neil's Tavern, 87-88.

Onis, Luis de, Spanish Minister, 61, 64.

Oregon, Jackson desires extension in, 233.

Osborn vs. United States Bank (1824), 183.

Pakenham, General Sir Edward, 40, 42.

Panama Congress (1826), 105.

Parton, James, biographer of Jackson, 238.
  cited, 4, 18-19, 29, 72, 175.

Peale, picture of Jackson by, 64.

Pennsylvania, 193-94.
  grants Bank charter, 198.

Pensacola, Jackson and, 29, 39, 40, 58.
  Nicholls at, 32.
  Spanish in, 52.
  toast to, 60.

Philadelphia, national capital, 17.
  fêtes Jackson, 63, 219.

Phillips, William, "Billy," courier, 23, 24-25, 26.

Pickens, Andrew, at Waxhaw settlement, 5.

Pittsburgh greets Jackson, 115.

Poinsett, J.R., of South Carolina, 174.

Political parties, no party lines in 1822, 76.
  see also Democratic, National Republican, Republican, Whig.

Polk, J.K., 230, 233.

Public lands,
  Adams and, 99.
  Foote's resolution (1829), 144-145, 155.
  sale of, 169, 199.

Randolph, John, 17, 93, 96.

"Red Sticks," name for Creek braves, 36, 54.

Reid, John, biographer of Jackson, 7.

Republican party,
  and Constitution, 99.
  supports Jackson, 103.

Rhea, John, 56, 74.

"Rhea letter," 56.

Richmond Enquirer, 141.

Roane, Judge, of Virginia, 141.

Robertson, James, helps found Nashville, 12.

Rush, Richard, cited, 61.

St. Augustine,
  Jackson and, 29.
  Spaniards in, 52.

St. Marks,
  Spaniards in, 52.
  Jackson and, 57, 58.

Salisbury (N.C.), 25.
  Jackson studies law at, 10-11.

Scott, General Winfield, 173, 215.

Scott, Fort, 55, 57.

Seminole Indians, 52.

Seminole War, 54-58.

Sevier, John, Governor of Tennessee, 20.

Seymour, Horatio, of Vermont, 148.

Slavery, South resists federal legislation on, 140.

South, The,
  on State rights, 139-140, 143.
  and United States Bank, 140.
  and tariff, 160-61.
  see also names of States.

South Carolina,
  claims to be birthplace of Jackson, 4.
  and tariff, 142, 145, 159, 166.
  see also Nullification.

South Carolina Exposition, 142.

"Southwest Territory," 16.

Spain,
  and Florida, 52, 53, 55-56.
  treaty with, 64.
  see also Florida.

Spoils System, Jackson and, 124-27, 236.

State rights, 139-40.
  Hayne on, 150, 154.
  Webster on, 152.
  see also Nullification.

Story, Judge Joseph, quoted, 123.

Strother, Fort, 34, 35.

Supreme Court,
  on State rights, 138-39.
  on United States Bank, 183.
  on Indian rights, 210-12.
  Georgia defies, 212,-213.

Suwanee (Fla.), Jackson at, 58.

Swann, Thomas, Jackson and, 21.

Tammany entertains Jackson, 63.

Taney, R.B.,
  Attorney-General, 136.
  writes for Jackson, 190, 228.
  Secretary of Treasury, 194, 196.

Tariff, 84, 158 et seq.
  Calhoun votes for protection, 139.
  South opposes protective, 140, 142, 143, 159-60.
  woolens bill (1827), 160.
  Act of 1824, 160, 161.
  Act of 1828, 160, 169, 170.
  Act of 1832, 169, 170.
  Compromise Tariff, 179.
  bibliography, 239.
  see also Nullification.

Tecumseh works among Southern Indians, 25-26.

Tennessee,
  admitted as State (1798), 16.
  meaning of name, 16.
  Legislature favors Jackson's nomination, 102.
  Indians, 202.

Texas, Jackson favors annexation, 235.

Tippecanoe, Battle of, 25.

Tohopeka, battle at, 35.

Troup, G.M., Governor of Georgia, 206.

Turnbull, R.J., The Crisis, 161.

Turner, F.J., The Rise of the New West, quoted, 159-60.

Twelve-mile Creek, Jackson's father settles on, 2.

Tyler, John,
  President, 148.
  Bank vetoes, 200.

Union County (N.C.), Jackson's father settles in, 3.

United States Telegraph, of Washington, Jackson organ, 102,
    118, 130.

Van Buren, Martin, 63, 115, 219, 221, 232, 233.
  supports Jackson, 103-04.
  Governor of New York, 116-17.
  Secretary of State, 117, 118.
  in Kitchen Cabinet, 130.
  aims at presidency, 132-34, 135.
  in Eaton controversy, 133-34.
  appointment as minister to Great Britain not ratified, 136.
  advises Jackson, 166.
  candidate for vice presidency, 168, 224.
  sets up independent treasury system, 200.
  candidate for presidency, 224-25.
  election, 226-27.
  inauguration, 230.
  biography, 238.

Verplanck, J.C., of New York, tariff bill, 178.

Virginia,
  controls presidency, 75-76.
  and State rights, 141-142.
  and tariff, 169.

War of 1812, 24 et seq., 52, 99, 137-38.

Washington, George, 14, 219.

Washington,
  captured, 38.
  Jackson journeys to, 50-51, 85, 114-15.

Waxhaw settlement, Jackson family at, 2.
  notable people from, 5.
  in the Revolution, 8

Weathersford, Creek half-breed, 36

Webster, Daniel, 18, 93, 189, 196.
  quoted, 115-16, 127.
  constitutional debate (1830), 145-57.
  life and characteristics, 147-148.
  Jackson's estimate of, 225-26.
  on Jackson, 234-35.
  bibliography, 238.

Webster, Ezekiel, 113.

West, The,
  and War of 1812, 25.
  and Indian policy, 201 et seq.

"Western District" tries to set up State, 12

Whig party, 225.
  tries to resurrect United States Bank, 200.

White, H.L.,
  of Tennessee, 116, 149.
  candidate for presidency, 224, 226, 227.

Wilkinson, General James, 29, 31, 37.

Wirt, William, 210.

Woodbury, Levi, Secretary of Navy, 136, 148, 219.

Worcester vs. State of Georgia, 211-12.

