At the time they were written, although Johnson had already done enough miscellaneous literary
work to fill several substantial volumes, his name, far from identifying an "Age", was virtually
unknown to the general public. The Vanity of Human Wishes was the first of his writings to
bear his name on its face. There were some who knew him to be the author of the vigorous satire,
London, and of the still more remarkable biographical study, An Account of the Life of Mr.
Richard Savage; and a few interested persons were aware that he was engaged in compiling an
English Dictionary, and intended to edit Shakespeare. He was also, at the moment, attracting
brief but not over-favorable attention as the author of one of the season's new crop of tragedies
at Drury Lane. But The Vanity of Human Wishes and The Rambler were a potent force in establishing
Johnson's claim to a permanent place in English letters. With the exception of five numbers
and two quoted letters, the periodical was written entirely by Johnson.

As moral essays, the Ramblers deeply stirred some readers and bored others. Young Boswell,
not unduly saturnine in temperament, was profoundly impressed by them and determined on their
account to seek out the author. Taine, a century later, discovered that he already knew by
heart all they had to teach and warned his readers away from them. Generally speaking, they
were valued as they deserved by the eighteenth century and undervalued by the nineteenth. The
first half of the twentieth has shown a marked impulse to restore them, as a series, to a place
of honor second only to the work of Addison and Steele in the same form. Raleigh, in 1907,
paid discriminating tribute to their humanity. If read, he observed, against a knowledge of
their author's life, "the pages of The Rambler are aglow with the earnestness of dear-bought
conviction, and rich in conclusions gathered not from books but from life and suffering." And
later: "We come to closer quarters with Johnson in the best pages of The Rambler than in the
most brilliant of the conversations recalled by Boswell. The hero of a hundred fights puts
off his armour, and becomes a wise and tender confessor." Latterly, the style of Johnson's
essays has been subjected to a closer scrutiny than ever before. What Taine found as inflexible
and inert as a pudding-mold is now seen to be charged with life and movement, vibrant with
light and shadow and color. More particularly, Wimsatt has shown how intimately connected is
the vocabulary of The Rambler with Johnson's reading for the Dictionary, and how, having mastered
the words of the experimental scientists of the previous century, Johnson proceeded to put
them to original uses, generating with them new stylistic overtones in contexts now humorously
precise, now philosophically metaphorical, employing them now for purposes of irony and satire,
and again for striking directly home to the roots of morality and religion.

When we approach Johnson's poetry, the revolution of taste becomes a more acute consideration.
It seems very nearly impossible to compare or contrast eighteenth-century poetry and that of
the twentieth without wilfully tipping the scales in one direction or the other, judgment in
this area being so much influenced by preference. But let us begin with titles. For a start,
let us take, from a recent Pulitzer Prize-winner: "The Day's No Rounder Than Its Angles Are",
and "Don't Look Now But Mary Is Everybody"; from another distinguished current volume, these:
"The Trance", "Lost", "Meeting"; from another, "After This, Sea", "Lineman Calling", "Meaning
Motion"; and from a fourth, "Terror", "Picnic Remembered", "Eidolon", and "Monologue at Midnight".
Here are individual assertions, suggestive of individual ways of looking at things; here are
headings that signalize particular events in the authors' experience,--moments' monuments.
Beside them, Johnson's title, "The Vanity of Human Wishes", looks very dogged and downright.

Titles are not poems but they have a barometric function. The modern titles cited above are
evocative of a world with which, for the past century and a half, we have been growing increasingly
familiar. This air we are accustomed to breathe: it requires no unusual effort of adjustment
from us. We readily understand that we are being invited to participate in a private experience
and, by sharing it, to help in giving it as much universality as may be. It is by no means
easy for readers of to-day to reverse the process, to start with the general and find in it
their personal account. We are more likely to feel a resentment, or at least a prejudice, against
the writer who solicits our attention to a topic without even the pretense of novelty.

Johnson's generation would have found it equally hard to see the matter from our point of view,
or to allow that the authors of the poems named above were being less than impudent or at best
flippant in thus brazenly obtruding their private experience, undisguised, before the reader.
We ought, moreover, to realize that in this judgment they would have the suffrages of all previous
generations, including the greatest writers, from classical times down to their own. It is
we who are singular, not they. Quite apart from considerations of moral right or wrong, of
artistic good or bad, it obviously, therefore, behooves us to try to cultivate a habit of mind
free from initial bias against so large a proportion of recorded testimony.

Very early in The Rambler Johnson remarks characteristically that "men more frequently require
to be reminded than informed." He believed this, and his generation believed it, because they
thought that human nature changed little from age to age. The problems of conduct that confront
the living individual have been faced countless times by his predecessors, and the accumulated
experience of mankind has arrived at conclusions which in the main are just and therefore helpful
to-day. The most important truths are those which have been known for a very long time. For
that very reason they tend to be ignored or slighted unless they are restated in such a way
as to arrest attention while they compel assent. Hence the best writing is that which most
successfully resolves the paradox of combining the sharpest surprise with the widest recognition.
Such an ideal is so difficult of attainment that, inevitably, many who subscribed to it succeeded
only in unleavened platitude and others rejected it for the easier goal of novelty.

In this most difficult class The Vanity of Human Wishes has won a respectable place. It is
freighted with a double cargo, the wisdom of two great civilizations, pagan and Christian.
Although based upon Juvenal's tenth Satire, it is so free a paraphrase as to be an original
poem. The English reader who sets it against Dryden's closer version will sense immediately
its greater weight. It is informed with Johnson's own sombre and most deeply rooted emotional
responses to the meaning of experience. These, although emanating from a devout practising
Christian and certainly not inconsistent with Christianity, neither reflect the specific articles
of Christian doctrine nor are lightened by the happiness of Christian faith: they are strongly
infused with classical resignation.

The poem is difficult as well as weighty. At times its expression is so condensed that the
meaning must be wrestled for. Statements so packed as, for example,

  Fate wings with ev'ry wish th' afflictive dart,
  Each gift of nature, and each grace of art,

do not yield their full intention to the running reader. One line, indeed,--the eighth from
the end (361)--has perhaps never been satisfactorily explained by any commentator. (The eighteenth
paragraph of Johnson's first sermon might go far to clarify it.) But such difficulties are
worth the effort they demand, because there is always a rational and unesoteric solution to
be gained.

The work as a whole has form, is shapely, even dramatic; but it is discontinuous and episodic
in its conduct, and is most memorable in its separate parts. No one can forget the magnificent
"set pieces" of Wolsey and Charles XII; but hardly less noteworthy are the two parallel invocations
interspersed, the one addressed to the young scholar, the other to young beauties "of rosy
lips and radiant eyes",--superb admonitions both, each containing such felicities of grave,
compacted statement as will hardly be surpassed. The assuaging, marmoreal majesty of the concluding
lines of the poem are a final demonstration of the virtue of this formal dignity in poetry.
If it did not appear invidious, one would like to quote by way of contrast some lines oddly
parallel, but on a pitch deliberately subdued to a less rhetorical level, from what is indubitably
one of the very greatest poems written in our own century, Mr. Eliot's Four Quartets:

  I said to my soul, be still, and wait without hope
  For hope would be hope for the wrong thing; wait without love
  For love would be love of the wrong thing; there is yet faith
  But the faith and the love and the hope are all in the waiting.
  Wait without thought, for you are not ready for thought:
  So the darkness shall be the light, and the stillness the dancing.

The Vanity of Human Wishes is reproduced from a copy in the William Andrews Clark Memorial
Library; the Rambler papers from copies in possession of Professor E.N. Hooker. The lines from
T.S. Eliot's Four Quartets are quoted with the permission of Harcourt, Brace and Company.

Bertrand H. Bronson University of California Berkeley

THE VANITY OF HUMAN WISHES.

THE Tenth Satire of Juvenal, IMITATED By SAMUEL JOHNSON.

LONDON:

Printed for R. DODSLEY at Tully's Head in Pall-Mall, and Sold by M. COOPER in Pater-noster Row.

M.DCC.XLIX.

THE TENTH SATIRE OF JUVENAL.

Let[a] Observation with extensive View, Survey Mankind, from China to Peru; Remark each anxious
Toil, each eager Strife, And watch the busy Scenes of crouded Life; Then say how Hope and Fear,
Desire and Hate, O'erspread with Snares the clouded Maze of Fate, Where wav'ring Man, betray'd
by venturous Pride, To tread the dreary Paths without a Guide; As treach'rous Phantoms in the
Mist delude, Shuns fancied Ills, or chases airy Good. How rarely Reason guides the stubborn
Choice, Rules the bold Hand, or prompts the suppliant Voice, How Nations sink, by darling Schemes
oppress'd, When Vengeance listens to the Fool's Request. [Footnote a: Ver. [Footnote b: Ver.
12-22.]

Let Hist'ry tell where rival Kings command, And dubious Title shakes the madded Land, When
Statutes glean the Refuse of the Sword, How much more safe the Vassal than the Lord, Low sculks
the Hind beneath the Rage of Pow'r, And leaves the bonny Traytor in the Tow'r, Untouch'd his
Cottage, and his Slumbers found, Tho' Confiscation's Vulturs clang around.

The needy Traveller, serene and gay, Walks the wild Heath, and sings his Toil away.

Yet[c] still the gen'ral Cry the Skies assails And Gain and Grandeur load the tainted Gales;
Few know the toiling States man's Fear or Care, Th' insidious Rival and the gaping Heir. [Footnote
c: Ver. 23-27.]

Once[d] more, Democritus, arise on Earth, With chearful Wisdom and instructive Mirth, See motley
Life in modern Trappings dress'd, And feed with varied Fools th' eternal Jest: Thou who couldst
laugh where Want enchain'd Caprice, Toil crush'd Conceit, and Man was of a Piece; Where Wealth
unlov'd without a Mourner dy'd; And scarce a Sycophant was fed by Pride; Where ne'er was known
the Form of mock Debate, Or seen a new-made Mayor's unwieldy State; Where change of Fav'rites
made no Change of Laws, And Senates heard before they judg'd a Cause; How wouldst thou shake
at Britain's modish Tribe, Dart the quick Taunt, and edge the piercing Gibe? Attentive Truth
and Nature to descry, And pierce each Scene with Philosophic Eye. To thee were solemn Toys
or empty Shew, The Robes of Pleasure and the Veils of Woe: All aid the Farce, and all thy Mirth
maintain, Whose Joys are causeless, or whose Griefs are vain. [Footnote d: Ver. 28-55.]

Such was the Scorn that fill'd the Sage's Mind, Renew'd at ev'ry Glance on Humankind; How just
that Scorn ere yet thy Voice declare, Search every State, and canvass ev'ry Pray'r.

[e]Unnumber'd Suppliants croud Preferment's Gate, Athirst for Wealth, and burning to be great;
Delusive Fortune hears th' incessant Call, They mount, they shine, evaporate, and fall. On
ev'ry Stage the Foes of Peace attend, Hate dogs their Flight, and Insult mocks their End. Love
ends with Hope, the sinking Statesman's Door Pours in the Morning Worshiper no more; For growing
Names the weekly Scribbler lies, To growing Wealth the Dedicator flies, From every Room descends
the painted Face, That hung the bright Palladium of the Place, And smoak'd in Kitchens, or
in Auctions sold, To better Features yields the Frame of Gold; For now no more we trace in
ev'ry Line Heroic Worth, Benevolence Divine: The Form distorted justifies the Fall, And Detestation
rids th' indignant Wall. [Footnote e: Ver. 56-107.]

But will not Britain hear the last Appeal, Sign her Foes Doom, or guard her Fav'rites Zeal;
Through Freedom's Sons no more Remonstrance rings; Degrading Nobles and controuling Kings;
Our supple Tribes repress their Patriot Throats, And ask no Questions but the Price of Votes;
With Weekly Libels and Septennial Ale, Their Wish is full to riot and to rail.

In full-blown Dignity, see Wolsey stand, Law in his Voice, and Fortune in his Hand: To him
the Church, the Realm, their Pow'rs consign, Thro' him the Rays of regal Bounty shine, Turned
by his Nod the Stream of Honour flows, His Smile alone Security bestows: Still to new Heights
his restless Wishes tow'r, Claim leads to Claim, and Pow'r advances Pow'r; Till Conquest unresisted
ceas'd to please, And Rights submitted, left him none to seize. At length his Sov'reign frowns--the
Train of State Mark the keen Glance, and watch the Sign to hate. Where-e'er he turns he meets
a Stranger's Eye, His Suppliants scorn him, and his Followers fly; Now drops at once the Pride
of aweful State, The golden Canopy, the glitt'ring Plate, The regal Palace, the luxurious Board,
The liv'ried Army and the menial Lord. With Age, with Cares, with Maladies oppress'd, He seeks
the Refuge of Monastic Rest. Or liv'st thou now, with safer Pride content, The richest Landlord
on the Banks of Trent? For why did Wolsey by the Steps of Fate, On weak Foundations raise th'
enormous Weight? Why but to sink beneath Misfortune's Blow, With louder Ruin to the Gulphs below?

What[f] gave great Villiers to th' Assassin's Knife,
And fix'd Disease on Harley's closing Life?
What murder'd Wentworth, and what exil'd Hyde,
By Kings protected and to Kings ally'd?
What but their Wish indulg' in Courts to shine,
And Pow'r too great to keep or to resign?
 [Footnote f: Ver.
[Footnote g: Ver. 114-132.]

Nor deem, when Learning her lost Prize bestows The glitt'ring Eminence exempt from Foes; See
when the Vulgar 'scap'd, despis'd or aw'd, Rebellion's vengeful Talons seize on Laud. From
meaner Minds, tho' smaller Fines content The plunder'd Palace or sequester'd Rent; Mark'd out
by dangerous Parts he meets the Shock, And fatal Learning leads him to the Block: Around his
Tomb let Art and Genius weep, But hear his Death, ye Blockheads, hear and sleep.

The[h] festal Blazes, the triumphal Show, The ravish'd Standard, and the captive Foe, The Senate's
Thanks, the Gazette's pompous Tale, With Force resistless o'er the Brave prevail. Yet Reason
frowns on War's unequal Game, Where wasted Nations raise a single Name, And mortgag'd States
their Grandsires Wreaths regret From Age to Age in everlasting Debt; Wreaths which at last
the dear-bought Right convey To rust on Medals, or on Stones decay. [Footnote h: Ver. 133-146.]

On[i] what Foundation stands the Warrior's Pride? But did not Chance at length her Error mend?
Did no subverted Empire mark his End? Did rival Monarchs give the fatal Wound? Or hostile Millions
press him to the Ground? [Footnote i: Ver. 147-167.]

All[k] Times their Scenes of pompous Woes afford, From Persia's Tyrant to Bavaria's Lord. In
gay Hostility, and barb'rous Pride, With half Mankind embattled at his Side, Great Xerxes comes
to seize the certain Prey, And starves exhausted Regions in his Way; Attendant Flatt'ry counts
his Myriads o'er, Till counted Myriads sooth his Pride no more; Fresh Praise is try'd till
Madness fires his Mind, The Waves he lashes, and enchains the Wind; New Pow'rs are claim'd,
new Pow'rs are still bestow'd, Till rude Resistance lops the spreading God; The daring Greeks
deride the Martial Shew, And heap their Vallies with the gaudy Foe; Th' insulted Sea with humbler
Thoughts he gains, A single Skiff to speed his Flight remains; Th' incumber'd Oar scarce leaves
the dreaded Coast Through purple Billows and a floating Host. [Footnote k: Ver. 168-187.]

The bold Bavarian, in a luckless Hour, Tries the dread Summits of Cesarean Pow'r, With unexpected
Legions bursts away, And sees defenceless Realms receive his Sway; Short Sway! fair Austria
spreads her mournful Charms, The Queen, the Beauty, sets the World in Arms; From Hill to Hill
the Beacons rousing Blaze Spreads wide the Hope of Plunder and of Praise; The fierce Croatian,
and the wild Hussar, And all the Sons of Ravage croud the War; The baffled Prince in Honour's
flatt'ring Bloom Of hasty Greatness finds the fatal Doom, His Foes Derision, and his Subjects
Blame, And steals to Death from Anguish and from Shame.

Enlarge[l] my Life with Multitude of Days, In Health, in Sickness, thus the Suppliant prays;
Hides from himself his State, and shuns to know, That Life protracted is protracted Woe. Time
hovers o'er, impatient to destroy, And shuts up all the Passages of Joy: In vain their Gifts
the bounteous Seasons pour, The Fruit Autumnal, and the Vernal Flow'r, With listless Eyes the
Dotard views the Store, He views, and wonders that they please no more; Now pall the tastless
Meats, and joyless Wines, And Luxury with Sighs her Slave resigns. Approach, ye Minstrels,
try the soothing Strain, And yield the tuneful Lenitives of Pain: No Sounds alas would touch
th' impervious Ear, Though dancing Mountains witness'd Orpheus near; Nor Lute nor Lyre his
feeble Pow'rs attend, Nor sweeter Musick of a virtuous Friend, But everlasting Dictates croud
his Tongue, Perversely grave, or positively wrong. The still returning Tale, and ling'ring
Jest, Perplex the fawning Niece and pamper'd Guest, While growing Hopes scarce awe the gath'ring
Sneer, And scarce a Legacy can bribe to hear; The watchful Guests still hint the last Offence,
The Daughter's Petulance, the Son's Expence, Improve his heady Rage with treach'rous Skill,
And mould his Passions till they make his Will. [Footnote l: Ver. 188.-288.]

Unnumber'd Maladies each Joint invade, Lay Siege to Life and press the dire Blockade; But unextinguish'd
Av'rice still remains, And dreaded Losses aggravate his Pains; He turns, with anxious Heart
and cripled Hands, His Bonds of Debt, and Mortgages of Lands; Or views his Coffers with suspicious
Eyes, Unlocks his Gold, and counts it till he dies.

But grant, the Virtues of a temp'rate Prime Bless with an Age exempt from Scorn or Crime; An
Age that melts in unperceiv'd Decay, And glides in modest Innocence away; Whose peaceful Day
Benevolence endears, Whose Night congratulating Conscience cheers; The gen'ral Fav'rite as
the gen'ral Friend: Such Age there is, and who could wish its End?

Yet ev'n on this her Load Misfortune flings, To press the weary Minutes flagging Wings: New
Sorrow rises as the Day returns, A Sister sickens, or a Daughter mourns. Now Kindred Merit
fills the fable Bier, Now lacerated Friendship claims a Tear. Year chases Year, Decay pursues
Decay, Still drops some Joy from with'ring Life away; New Forms arise, and diff'rent Views
engage, Superfluous lags the Vet'ran on the Stage, Till pitying Nature signs the last Release,
And bids afflicted Worth retire to Peace.

But few there are whom Hours like these await, Who set unclouded in the Gulphs of Fate. From
Lydia's Monarch should the Search descend, By Solon caution'd to regard his End, In Life's
last Scene what Prodigies surprise, Fears of the Brave, and Follies of the Wise? From Marlb'rough's
Eyes the Streams of Dotage flow, And Swift expires a Driv'ler and a Show. Ye Nymphs of rosy
Lips and radiant Eyes, Whom Pleasure keeps too busy to be wise, Whom Joys with soft Varieties
invite By Day the Frolick, and the Dance by Night, Who frown with Vanity, who smile with Art,
And ask the latest Fashion of the Heart, What Care, what Rules your heedless Charms shall save,
Each Nymph your Rival, and each Youth your Slave? With distant Voice neglected Virtue calls,
Less heard, and less the faint Remonstrance falls; Tir'd with Contempt, she quits the slipp'ry
Reign, And Pride and Prudence take her Seat in vain. In croud at once, where none the Pass
defend, The harmless Freedom, and the private Friend. The Guardians yield, by Force superior
ply'd; By Int'rest, Prudence; and by Flatt'ry, Pride. Here Beauty falls betray'd, despis'd,
distress'd, And hissing Infamy proclaims the rest. [Footnote m: Ver. 289-345.]

Where[n] then shall Hope and Fear their Objects find? Must dull Suspence corrupt the stagnant
Mind? Must helpless Man, in Ignorance sedate, Swim darkling down the Current of his Fate? Must
no Dislike alarm, no Wishes rise, No Cries attempt the Mercies of the Skies? [Footnote n: Ver.
346-366.]

FINIS.

THE RAMBLER.

NUMB. 5. Price 2 d.

TUESDAY, April 3, 1750.

To be continued on TUESDAYS and SATURDAYS.

  Et nunc omnis Ager, nunc omnis parturit Arbos,
  Nunc frondent Silvae, nunc formosissimus Annus.
                                                 VIRG.

Every Man is sufficiently discontented with some Circumstances of his present State, to suffer
his Imagination to range more or less in quest of future Happiness, and to fix upon some Point
of Time, in which he shall, by the Removal of the Inconvenience which now perplexes him, or
the Acquisition of Advantage which he at present wants, find his Condition of Life very much
improved.

When this Time, which is too often expected with great Impatience, at last arrives, it generally
comes without the Blessing for which it was desired; but we solace ourselves with some new
Prospect, and press forward again with equal Eagerness.

It is some Advantage to a Man, in whom this Temper prevails in any great Degree, when he turns
his Hopes upon Things wholly out of his own Power, since he forbears then to precipitate his
Affairs, for the Sake of the great Event that is to complete his Felicity, and waits for the
blissful Hour, without neglecting such Measures as are necessary to be taken in the mean Time.

I have long known a Person of this Temper, who indulged his Dream of Happiness with less Hurt
to himself than such chimerical Wishes commonly produce, and adjusted his Scheme with such
Address, that his Hopes were in full bloom three parts of the Year, and in the other part never
wholly blasted. Many, perhaps, would be desirous of learning by what Means he procured to himself
such a cheap and lasting Satisfaction. It was gained only by a constant Practice of referring
the Removal of all his Uneasiness to the Coming of the next Spring. If his Affairs were disordered,
he could regulate them in the Spring; if a Regimen was prescribed him, the Spring was the proper
Time of pursuing it; if what he wanted was at a high Price, it would fall its Value in the Spring.

The Spring, indeed, did often come without any of these Effects; but he was always certain
that the next would be more propitious; and was never convinced that the present Spring would
fail him until the Middle of Summer; for he always talked of the Spring as coming 'till it
was past, and when it was once past, every one agreed with him that it was coming.

By long Converse with this Man, I am, perhaps, in some Degree brought to feel the same immoderate
Pleasure in the Contemplation of this delightful Season; but I have the Satisfaction of finding
many, whom it can be no Shame to resemble, infected with the same Enthusiasm; for there is,
I believe, scarce any Poet of Eminence, who has not left some Testimony of his Fondness for
the Flowers, the Zephyrs, and the Warblers of the Spring. Nor has the most luxuriant Imagination
been able to describe the Serenity and Happiness of the golden Age otherwise than by giving
a perpetual Spring, as the highest Reward of uncorrupted Innocence.

There is, indeed, something inexpressibly pleasing in the annual Renovation of the World, and
the new Display of the Treasures of Nature. The Cold and Darkness of Winter, with the naked
Deformity of every Object on which we turn our Eyes, makes us necessarily rejoice at the succeeding
Season, as well for what we have escaped, as for what we may enjoy; and every budding Flower,
which a warm Situation brings early to our View, is considered by us as a Messenger, to inform
us of the Approach of more joyous Days.

The Spring affords to a Mind, so free from the Disturbance of Cares or Passions as to be vacant
to calm Amusements, almost every Thing that our present State makes us capable of enjoying.
The variegated Verdure of the Fields and Woods, the Succession of grateful Odours, the Voice
of Pleasure pouring out its Notes on every Side, with the Observation of the Gladness apparently
conceived by every Animal, from the Growth of his Food, and the Clemency of the Weather, throw
over the whole Earth an Air of Gayety, which is very significantly expressed by the Smile of
Nature.

There are Men to whom these Scenes are able to give no Delight, and who hurry away from all
the Varieties of rural Beauty, to lose their Hours, and divert their Thoughts by Cards, or
publick Assemblies, a Tavern Dinner, or the Prattle of the Day.

Those, who are incapacitated to enjoy the Pleasures of Contemplation, by their Griefs, may,
very properly, apply to such Diversions, provided they are innocent, as lay strong hold on
the Attention; and those, whom Fear of any future Calamity chains down to Misery, must endeavour
to obviate the Danger.

My Considerations shall, on this Occasion, be turned on such as are burthensome to themselves
merely because they want Subjects for Reflection, and to whom the Volume of Nature is thrown
open without affording them Pleasure or Instruction, because they never learned to read the
Characters.

A French Author has advanced this seeming Paradox, that very few Men know how to take a Walk;
and, indeed, it is very true, that few Men know how to take a Walk with a Prospect of any other
Pleasure, than the same Company would have afforded them in any other Circumstances.

There are Animals that borrow their Colour from the neighbouring Body, and, consequently, vary
their Hue as they happen to change their Place. In like manner it ought to be the Endeavour
of every Man to derive his Reflexions from the Objects about him; for it is to no purpose that
he alters his Position, if his Attention continues fixt to the same Point. The Mind should
be kept open to the Access of every new Idea, and so far disengaged from the Predominance of
particular Thoughts, as to be able to accommodate itself to emergent Occasions, and remark
every Thing that offers itself to present Examination.

A Man that has formed this Habit of turning every new Object to his Entertainment, finds in
the Productions of Nature an inexhaustible Stock of Materials, upon which he can employ himself,
without any Temptations to Envy or Malevolence; Faults, perhaps, seldom totally avoided by
those, whose Judgment is much exercised upon the Works of Art. He has always a certain Prospect
of discovering new Reasons for adoring the Sovereign Author of the Universe, and probable Hopes
of making some Discovery of Benefit to others, or of Profit to himself. There is no doubt but
many Vegetables and Animals have Qualities that might be of great Use; to the Knowledge of
which there is required no great Sagacity of Penetration, or Fatigue of Study, but only frequent
Experiments, and close Attention. What is said by the Chymists of their darling Mercury, is,
perhaps, true of every Body through the whole Creation, that, if a thousand Lives should be
spent upon it, all its Properties would not be found out.

Mankind must necessarily be diversified by various Tastes, since Life affords and requires
such multiplicity of Employments; and a Nation of Naturalists is neither to be hoped, or desired,
but it is surely not improper to point out a fresh Amusement to those who langush in Health,
and repine in Plenty, for want of some Source of Diversion that may be less easily exhausted,
and to inform the Multitudes of both Sexes, who are burthened with every new Day, that there
are many Shews which they have not seen.

LONDON: Printed for J. PAYNE, and J. BOUQUET, in Pater-noster-Row; where Letters for the RAMBLER
are received, and the preceding Numbers may be had.

THE RAMBLER.

NUMB. 60. Price 2 d.

To be continued on TUESDAYS and SATURDAYS. HOR.

All Joy or Sorrow for the Happiness or Calamities of others is produced by an Act of the Imagination,
that realises the Event however fictitious, or approximates it however remote, by placing us,
for a Time, in the Condition of him whose Fortune we contemplate; so that we feel, while the
Deception lasts, whatever Motions would be excited by the same Good or Evil happening to ourselves.

Our Passions are therefore more strongly moved, in proportion as we can more readily adopt
the Pains or Pleasures proposed to our Minds, by recognising them as once our own, or considering
them as naturally incident to our State of Life. It is not easy for the most artful Writer
to give us an Interest in Happiness or Misery, which we think ourselves never likely to feel,
and with which we have never yet been made acquainted. Histories of the Downfall of Kingdoms,
and Revolutions of Empires are read with great Tranquillity; the imperial Tragedy pleases common
Auditors only by its Pomp of Ornament, and Grandeur of Ideas; and the Man whose Faculties have
been engrossed by Business, and whose Heart never fluttered but at the Rise or Fall of Stocks,
wonders how the Attention can be seized, or the Affections agitated by a Tale of Love.

Those parallel Circumstances, and kindred Images to which we readily conform our Minds, are,
above all other Writings, to be found in Narratives of the Lives of particular Persons; and
there seems therefore no Species of Writing more worthy of Cultivation than Biography, since
none can be more delightful, or more useful, none can more certainly enchain the Heart by irresistible
Interest, or more widely diffuse Instruction to every Diversity of Condition.

The general and rapid Narratives of History, which involve a thousand Fortunes in the Business
of a Day, and complicate innumerable Incidents in one great Transaction, afford few Lessons
applicable to private Life, which derives its Comforts and its Wretchedness from the right
or wrong Management of Things that nothing but their Frequency makes considerable, Parva si
non fiunt quotidie, says Pliny, and which can have no Place in those Relations which never
descend below the Consultation of Senates, the Motions of Armies, and the Schemes of Conspirators.

I have often thought that there has rarely passed a Life of which a judicious and faithful
Narrative would not be useful. For, not only every Man has in the mighty Mass of the World
great Numbers in the same Condition with himself, to whom his Mistakes and Miscarriages, Escapes
and Expedients would be of immediate and apparent Use; but there is such an Uniformity in the
Life of Man, if it be considered apart from adventitious and separable Decorations and Disguises,
that there is scarce any Possibility of Good or Ill, but is common to Humankind. A great Part
of the Time of those who are placed at the greatest Distance by Fortune, or by Temper, must
unavoidably pass in the same Manner; and though, when the Claims of Nature are satisfied, Caprice,
and Vanity, and Accident, begin to produce Discriminations, and Peculiarities, yet the Eye
is not very heedful, or quick, which cannot discover the same Causes still terminating their
Influence in the same Effects, though sometimes accelerated, sometimes retarded, or perplexed
by multiplied Combinations. We are all prompted by the same Motives, all deceived by the same
Fallacies, all animated by Hope, obstructed by Danger, entangled by Desire, and seduced by
Pleasure.

It is frequently objected to Relations of particular Lives, that they are not distinguished
by any striking or wonderful Vicissitude. The Scholar who passes his Life among his Books,
the Merchant who conducted only his own Affairs, the Priest whose Sphere of Action was not
extended beyond that of his Duty, are considered as no proper Objects of publick Regard, however
they might have excelled in their several Stations, whatever might have been their Learning,
Integrity, and Piety. But this Notion arises from false Measures of Excellence and Dignity,
and must be eradicated by considering, that, in the Eye of uncorrupted Reason, what is of most
Use is of most Value.

If now and then they condescend to inform the World of particular Facts, they are not always
so happy as to select those which are of most Importance. If there is a Regard due to the Memory
of the Dead, there is yet more Respect to be paid to Knowledge, to Virtue, and to Truth. Edward
Moore's The Gamester (1753).

Note: All income of the Society is devoted to defraying cost of printing and mailing.

