She had not a single silk gown, but she had what is far better, a figure to show off a cotton
one. Not a brooch nor a pair of earrings was numbered among her possessions, but any ordinary
gems would have looked rather dull and trivial when compelled to undergo comparison with her
bright eyes. As to her hair, the local milliner declared it impossible for Rose Wiley to get
an unbecoming hat; that on one occasion, being in a frolicsome mood, Rose had tried on all
the headgear in the village emporium,--children's gingham "Shakers," mourning bonnets for aged
dames, men's haying hats and visored caps,--and she proved superior to every test, looking
as pretty as a pink in the best ones and simply ravishing in the worst. In fact, she had been
so fashioned and finished by Nature that, had she been set on a revolving pedestal in a show-window,
the bystanders would have exclaimed, as each new charm came into view: "Look at her waist!
See her shoulders! And her neck and chin! And her hair!" While the children, gazing with raptured
admiration, would have shrieked, in unison, "I choose her for mine."

All this is as much as to say that Rose of the river was a beauty, yet it quite fails to explain,
nevertheless, the secret of her power. When she looked her worst the spell was as potent as
when she looked her best. Hidden away somewhere was a vital spark which warmed every one who
came in contact with it. Her lovely little person was a trifle below medium height, and it
might as well be confessed that her soul, on the morning when Stephen Waterman saw her hanging
out the clothes on the river-bank, was not large enough to be at all out of proportion; but
when eyes and dimples, lips and cheeks, enslave the onlooker, the soul is seldom subjected
to a close or critical scrutiny. Besides, Rose Wiley was a nice girl, neat as wax, energetic,
merry, amiable, economical. She was a dutiful granddaughter to two of the most irritating old
people in the county; she never patronized her pug-nosed, pasty-faced girl friends; she made
wonderful pies and doughnuts; and besides, small souls, if they are of the right sort, sometimes
have a way of growing, to the discomfiture of cynics and the gratification of the angels.

So, on one bank of the river grew the brier rose, a fragile thing, swaying on a slender stalk
and looking at its pretty reflection in the water; and on the other a sturdy pine tree, well
rooted against wind and storm. And the sturdy pine yearned for the wild rose; and the rose,
so far as it knew, yearned for nothing at all, certainly not for rugged pine trees standing
tall and grim in rocky soil. If, in its present stage of development, it gravitated toward
anything in particular, it would have been a well-dressed white birch growing on an irreproachable
lawn.

And the river, now deep, now shallow, now smooth, now tumultuous, now sparkling in sunshine,
now gloomy under clouds, rolled on to the engulfing sea. It could not stop to concern itself
with the petty comedies and tragedies that were being enacted along its shores, else it would
never have reached its destination. Only last night, under a full moon, there had been pairs
of lovers leaning over the rails of all the bridges along its course; but that was a common
sight, like that of the ardent couples sitting on its shady banks these summer days, looking
only into each other's eyes, but exclaiming about the beauty of the water. Lovers would come
and go, sometimes reappearing with successive installments of loves in a way wholly mysterious
to the river. Meantime it had its own work to do and must be about it, for the side jams were
to be broken and the boom "let out" at the Edgewood bridge.

II. "Old Kennebec"

It was just seven o'clock that same morning when Rose Wiley smoothed the last wrinkle from
her dimity counterpane, picked up a shred of corn-husk from the spotless floor under the bed,
slapped a mosquito on the window-sill, removed all signs of murder with a moist towel, and
before running down to breakfast cast a frowning look at her pincushion. Almira, otherwise
"Mite," Shapley had been in her room the afternoon before and disturbed with her careless hand
the pattern of Rose's pins. They were kept religiously in the form of a Maltese cross; and
if, while she was extricating one from her clothing, there had been an alarm of fire, Rose
would have stuck the pin in its appointed place in the design, at the risk of losing her life.

Entering the kitchen with her light step, she brought the morning sunshine with her. The old
people had already engaged in differences of opinion, but they commonly suspended open warfare
in her presence. There were the usual last things to be done for breakfast, offices that belonged
to her as her grandmother's assistant. She took yesterday's soda biscuits out of the steamer
where they were warming and softening; brought an apple pie and a plate of seed cakes from
the pantry; settled the coffee with a piece of dried fish skin and an egg shell; and transferred
some fried potatoes from the spider to a covered dish.

"Did you remember the meat, grandpa? We're all out," she said, as she began buttoning a stiff
collar around his reluctant neck.

"Remember? Land, yes! I wish't I ever could forgit anything! The butcher says he's 'bout tired
o' travelin' over the country lookin' for critters to kill, but if he finds anything he'll
be up along in the course of a week. He ain't a real smart butcher, Cyse Higgins ain't.--Land,
Rose, don't button that dickey clean through my epperdummis! I have to sport starched collars
in this life on account o' you and your gran'mother bein' so chock full o' style; but I hope
to the Lord I shan't have to wear 'em in another world!"

"You won't," his wife responded with the snap of a dish towel, "or if you do, they'll wilt
with the heat."

Rose smiled, but the soft hand with which she tied the neckcloth about the old man's withered
neck pacified his spirit, and he smiled knowingly back at her as she took her seat at the breakfast
table spread near the open kitchen door. She was a dazzling Rose, and, it is to be feared,
a wasted one, for there was no one present to observe her clean pink calico and the still more
subtle note struck in the green ribbon which was tied round her throat,--the ribbon that formed
a sort of calyx, out of which sprang the flower of her face, as fresh and radiant as if it
had bloomed that morning.

"Give me my coffee turrible quick," said Mr. Wiley; "I must be down to the bridge 'fore they
start dog-warpin' the side jam."

"I notice you're always due at the bridge on churnin' days," remarked his spouse, testily.

