"O tribune!" he began, bending low, "I fear to tell what now I bring you."

"Another mistake--ha, Gesius?"

"If I could persuade myself it is but a mistake, I would not be afraid."

"A crime then--or, worse, a breach of duty. Thou mayst laugh at Caesar, or curse the gods,
and live; but if the offence be to the eagles--ah, thou knowest, Gesius--go on!"

"It is now about eight years since Valerius Gratus selected me to be keeper of prisoners here
in the Tower," said the man, deliberately. "I remember the morning I entered upon the duties
of my office. There had been a riot the day before, and fighting in the streets. We slew many
Jews, and suffered on our side. The affair came, it was said, of an attempt to assassinate
Gratus, who had been knocked from his horse by a tile thrown from a roof. I found him sitting
where you now sit, O tribune, his head swathed in bandages. He told me of my selection, and
gave me these keys, numbered to correspond with the numbers of the cells; they were the badges
of my office, he said, and not to be parted with. There was a roll of parchment on the table.
Calling me to him, he opened the roll. 'Here are maps of the cells,' said he. There were three
of them. 'This one,' he went on, 'shows the arrangement of the upper floor; this second one
gives you the second floor; and this last is of the lower floor. I give them to you in trust.'
I took them from his hand, and he said, further, 'Now you have the keys and the maps; go immediately,
and acquaint yourself with the whole arrangement; visit each cell, and see to its condition.
When anything is needed for the security of a prisoner, order it according to your judgment,
for you are the master under me, and no other.'

"I saluted him, and turned to go away; he called me back. 'Ah, I forgot,' he said. 'Give me
the map of the third floor.' I gave it to him, and he spread it upon the table. 'Here, Gesius,'
he said, 'see this cell.' He laid his finger on the one numbered V. 'There are three men confined
in that cell, desperate characters, who by some means got hold of a state secret, and suffer
for their curiosity, which'--he looked at me severely--'in such matters is worse than a crime.
Accordingly, they are blind and tongueless, and are placed there for life. They shall have
nothing but food and drink, to be given them through a hole, which you will find in the wall
covered by a slide. Do you hear, Gesius?' I made him answer. 'It is well,' he continued. 'One
thing more which you shall not forget, or'--he looked at me threateningly--'The door of their
cell--cell number V. on the same floor--this one, Gesius'--he put his finger on the particular
cell to impress my memory--'shall never be opened for any purpose, neither to let one in nor
out, not even yourself.' 'But if they die?' I asked. 'If they die,' he said, 'the cell shall
be their tomb. They were put there to die, and be lost. The cell is leprous. Do you understand?'
With that he let me go."

Gesius stopped, and from the breast of his tunic drew three parchments, all much yellowed by
time and use; selecting one of them, he spread it upon the table before the tribune, saying,
simply, "This is the lower floor."

The whole company looked at

  THE MAP

  |                                          |
  |                 Passage                  |
  |                                          |
  |--][---+---][---+---][---+---][---+---][--|
  |       |        |        |        |       |
  |   V   |   IV   |   III  |   II   |   I   |
  ||||||

"This is exactly, O tribune, as I had it from Gratus. See, there is cell number V.," said Gesius.

"I see," the tribune replied. "Go on now. The cell was leprous, he said."

"I would like to ask you a question," remarked the keeper, modestly.

The tribune assented.

"Had I not a right, under the circumstances, to believe the map a true one?"

"What else couldst thou?"

"Well, it is not a true one."

The chief looked up surprised.

"It is not a true one," the keeper repeated. "It shows but five cells upon that floor, while
there are six."

"Six, sayest thou?"

"I will show you the floor as it is--or as I believe it to be."

Upon a page of his tablets, Gesius drew the following diagram, and gave it to the tribune:

  |                                          |
  |--][---+---][---+---][---+---][---+---][--|
  |       |        |        |        |       |
  |   V   |   IV   |   III  |   II   |   I   |
  |--][---+--------+--------+--------+-------|
  |                    VI                    |
  ||

"Thou hast done well," said the tribune, examining the drawing, and thinking the narrative
at an end. "I will have the map corrected, or, better, I will have a new one made, and given
thee. Come for it in the morning."

So saying, he arose.

"But hear me further, O tribune."

"To-morrow, Gesius, to-morrow."

"That which I have yet to tell will not wait."

The tribune good-naturedly resumed his chair.

"I will hurry," said the keeper, humbly, "only let me ask another question. Had I not a right
to believe Gratus in what he further told me as to the prisoners in cell number V.?"

"Yes, it was thy duty to believe there were three prisoners in the cell--prisoners of state--blind
and without tongues."

"Well," said the keeper, "that was not true either."

"No!" said the tribune, with returning interest.

"Hear, and judge for yourself, O tribune. As required, I visited all the cells, beginning with
those on the first floor, and ending with those on the lower. The order that the door of number
V. should not be opened had been respected; through all the eight years food and drink for
three men had been passed through a hole in the wall. I went to the door yesterday, curious
to see the wretches who, against all expectation, had lived so long. The locks refused the
key. We pulled a little, and the door fell down, rusted from its hinges. Going in, I found
but one man, old, blind, tongueless, and naked. His hair dropped in stiffened mats below his
waist. His skin was like the parchment there. He held his hands out, and the finger-nails curled
and twisted like the claws of a bird. I asked him where his companions were. He shook his head
in denial. Thinking to find the others, we searched the cell. The floor was dry; so were the
walls. If three men had been shut in there, and two of them had died, at least their bones
would have endured."

"Wherefore thou thinkest--"

"I think, O tribune, there has been but one prisoner there in the eight years."

The chief regarded the keeper sharply, and said, "Have a care; thou art more than saying Valerius
lied."

Gesius bowed, but said, "He might have been mistaken."

"No, he was right," said the tribune, warmly. "By thine own statement he was right. Didst thou
not say but now that for eight years food and drink had been furnished three men?"

The bystanders approved the shrewdness of their chief; yet Gesius did not seem discomfited.

"You have but half the story, O tribune. When you have it all, you will agree with me. You
know what I did with the man: that I sent him to the bath, and had him shorn and clothed, and
then took him to the gate of the Tower, and bade him go free. I washed my hands of him. To-day
he came back, and was brought to me. By signs and tears he at last made me understand he wished
to return to his cell, and I so ordered. As they were leading him off, he broke away and kissed
my feet, and, by piteous dumb imploration, insisted I should go with him; and I went. The mystery
of the three men stayed in my mind. I was not satisfied about it. Now I am glad I yielded to
his entreaty."

The whole company at this point became very still.

"When we were in the cell again, and the prisoner knew it, he caught my hand eagerly, and led
me to a hole like that through which we were accustomed to pass him his food. Though large
enough to push your helmet through, it escaped me yesterday. Still holding my hand, he put
his face to the hole and gave a beast-like cry. A sound came faintly back. I was astonished,
and drew him away, and called out, 'Ho, here!' At first there was no answer. I called again,
and received back these words, 'Be thou praised, O Lord!' Yet more astonishing, O tribune,
the voice was a woman's. And I asked, 'Who are you?' and had reply, 'A woman of Israel, entombed
here with her daughter. Help us quickly, or we die.' I told them to be of cheer, and hurried
here to know your will."

The tribune arose hastily.

"Thou wert right, Gesius," he said, "and I see now. The map was a lie, and so was the tale
of the three men. There have been better Romans than Valerius Gratus."

"Yes," said the keeper. "I gleaned from the prisoner that he had regularly given the women
of the food and drink he had received."

"It is accounted for," replied the tribune, and observing the countenances of his friends,
and reflecting how well it would be to have witnesses, he added, "Let us rescue the women.
Come all."

Gesuis was pleased.

"We will have to pierce the wall," he said. "I found where a door had been, but it was filled
solidly with stones and mortar."

The tribune stayed to say to a clerk, "Send workmen after me with tools. Make haste; but hold
the report, for I see it will have to be corrected."

In a short time they were gone.

CHAPTER II

"A woman of Israel, entombed here with her daughter. Help us quickly, or we die."

Such was the reply Gesius, the keeper, had from the cell which appears on his amended map as
VI. The reader, when he observed the answer, knew who the unfortunates were, and, doubtless,
said to himself, "At last the mother of Ben-Hur, and Tirzah, his sister!"

And so it was.

The morning of their seizure, eight years before, they had been carried to the Tower, where
Gratus proposed to put them out of the way. He had chosen the Tower for the purpose as more
immediately in his own keeping, and cell VI. because, first, it could be better lost than any
other; and, secondly, it was infected with leprosy; for these prisoners were not merely to
be put in a safe place, but in a place to die. They were, accordingly, taken down by slaves
in the night-time, when there were no witnesses of the deed; then, in completion of the savage
task, the same slaves walled up the door, after which they were themselves separated, and sent
away never to be heard of more. To save accusation, and, in the event of discovery, to leave
himself such justification as might be allowed in a distinction between the infliction of a
punishment and the commission of a double murder, Gratus preferred sinking his victims where
natural death was certain, though slow. That they might linger along, he selected a convict
who had been made blind and tongueless, and sank him in the only connecting cell, there to
serve them with food and drink. Under no circumstances could the poor wretch tell the tale
or identify either the prisoners or their doomsman. So, with a cunning partly due to Messala,
the Roman, under color of punishing a brood of assassins, smoothed a path to confiscation of
the estate of the Hurs, of which no portion ever reached the imperial coffers.

As the last step in the scheme, Gratus summarily removed the old keeper of the prisons; not
because he knew what had been done--for he did not--but because, knowing the underground floors
as he did, it would be next to impossible to keep the transaction from him. Then, with masterly
ingenuity, the procurator had new maps drawn for delivery to a new keeper, with the omission,
as we have seen, of cell VI. The instructions given the latter, taken with the omission on
the map, accomplished the design--the cell and its unhappy tenants were all alike lost.

What may be thought of the life of the mother and daughter during the eight years must have
relation to their culture and previous habits. Conditions are pleasant or grievous to us according
to our sensibilities. It is not extreme to say, if there was a sudden exit of all men from
the world, heaven, as prefigured in the Christian idea, would not be a heaven to the majority;
on the other hand, neither would all suffer equally in the so-called Tophet. Cultivation has
its balances. As the mind is made intelligent, the capacity of the soul for pure enjoyment
is proportionally increased. Well, therefore, if it be saved! If lost, however, alas that it
ever had cultivation! its capacity for enjoyment in the one case is the measure of its capacity
to suffer in the other. Wherefore repentance must be something more than mere remorse for sins;
it comprehends a change of nature befitting heaven.

We repeat, to form an adequate idea of the suffering endured by the mother of Ben-Hur, the
reader must think of her spirit and its sensibilities as much as, if not more than, of the
conditions of the immurement; the question being, not what the conditions were, but how she
was affected by them. And now we may be permitted to say it was in anticipation of this thought
that the scene in the summer-house on the roof of the family palace was given so fully in the
beginning of the Second Book of our story. So, too, to be helpful when the inquiry should come
up, we ventured the elaborate description of the palace of the Hurs.

In other words, let the serene, happy, luxurious life in the princely house be recalled and
contrasted with this existence in the lower dungeon of the Tower of Antonia; then if the reader,
in his effort to realize the misery of the woman, persists in mere reference to conditions
physical, he cannot go amiss; as he is a lover of his kind, tender of heart, he will be melted
with much sympathy. But will he go further; will he more than sympathize with her; will he
share her agony of mind and spirit; will he at least try to measure it--let him recall her
as she discoursed to her son of God and nations and heroes; one moment a philosopher, the next
a teacher, and all the time a mother.

Would you hurt a man keenest, strike at his self-love; would you hurt a woman worst, aim at
her affections.

With quickened remembrance of these unfortunates--remembrance of them as they were--let us
go down and see them as they are.

The cell VI. was in form as Gesius drew it on his map. Of its dimensions but little idea can
be had; enough that it was a roomy, roughened interior, with ledged and broken walls and floor.

In the beginning, the site of the Macedonian Castle was separated from the site of the Temple
by a narrow but deep cliff somewhat in shape of a wedge. The workmen, wishing to hew out a
series of chambers, made their entry in the north face of the cleft, and worked in, leaving
a ceiling of the natural stone; delving farther, they executed the cells V., IV., III., II.,
I., with no connection with number VI. except through number V. In like manner, they constructed
the passage and stairs to the floor above. The process of the work was precisely that resorted
to in carving out the Tombs of the Kings, yet to be seen a short distance north of Jerusalem;
only when the cutting was done, cell VI. was enclosed on its outer side by a wall of prodigious
stones, in which, for ventilation, narrow apertures were left bevelled like modern port-holes.
Herod, when he took hold of the Temple and Tower, put a facing yet more massive upon this outer
wall, and shut up all the apertures but one, which yet admitted a little vitalizing air, and
a ray of light not nearly strong enough to redeem the room from darkness.

Such was cell VI.

Startle not now!

