The last of the seven Planets is Saturn, depicted as an old man heavy with melancholy, who
is devouring his own children, with a great serpent that is seizing its own tail with its teeth;
which Saturn has above him the Sign of Capricorn. In the oval is Decrepitude, and here is depicted
Jove in Heaven receiving a naked and decrepit old man, kneeling, who is watched over by Felicity
and Immortality, who are casting his garments into the world. This oval is supported by Beatitude,
who is upheld by a figure of Justice in the ornament below, who is seated and has in her hand
the sceptre and upon her shoulders the stork, with arms and laws around her; and on the parapet
below is Geometry.

In the lowest part at the foot, which is about the windows with knee-shaped brackets and the
door, is Leah in a niche, representing the Active Life, and on the other side of the same place
is Industry, who has a Cornucopia and two goads in her hands. Near the door is a scene in which
many masters in wood and stone, architects, and stone-cutters have before them the gate of
Cosmopolis, a city built by the Lord Duke Cosimo in the island of Elba, with a representation
of Porto-Ferrajo. Between this scene and the frieze in which are the Liberal Arts, is Lake
Trasimene, round which are Nymphs who are issuing from the water with tench, pike, eels, and
roach, and beside the lake is Perugia, a nude figure holding with her hands a dog, which she
is showing to a figure of Florence corresponding to her, who stands on the other side, with
a figure of Arno beside her who is embracing and fondling her. And below this is the Contemplative
Life in another scene, in which many philosophers and astrologers are measuring the heavens,
appearing to be casting the horoscope of the Duke; and beside this, in the niche corresponding
to that of Leah, is her sister Rachel, the daughter of Laban, representing the Contemplative
Life. The last scene, which is likewise between two niches and forms the conclusion of the
whole invention, is Death, who, mounted on a lean horse and holding the scythe, and accompanied
by War, Pestilence, and Famine, is riding over persons of every kind. In one niche is the God
Pluto, and beneath him Cerberus, the Hound of Hell; and in the other is a large figure rising
again from a sepulchre on the last day. After all these things Cristofano executed on the pediments
of the windows with knee-shaped brackets some nude figures that are holding the devices of
his Excellency, and over the door a Ducal coat of arms, the six balls of which are upheld by
some naked little boys, who twine in and out between each other as they fly through the air.
And last of all, in the bases at the foot, beneath all the scenes, the same Cristofano painted
the device of M. Sforza; that is, some obelisks, or rather triangular pyramids, which rest
upon three balls, with a motto around that reads--Immobilis.

This work, when finished, was vastly extolled by his Excellency and by Messer Sforza himself,
who, like the courteous gentleman that he was, wished to reward with a considerable present
the art and industry of Cristofano; but he would have none of it, being contented and fully
repaid by the goodwill of that lord, who loved him ever afterwards more than I could say. While
the work was being executed, Vasari had Cristofano with him, as he had always done in the past,
in the house of Signor Bernardetto de' Medici, who much delighted in painting; which having
perceived, Cristofano painted two scenes in chiaroscuro in a corner of his garden. One was
the Rape of Proserpine, and in the other were Vertumnus and Pomona, the deities of agriculture;
and besides this Cristofano painted in this work some ornaments of terminal figures and children
of such variety and beauty, that there is nothing better to be seen.

Meanwhile arrangements had been made for beginning to paint in the Palace, and the first thing
that was taken in hand was a hall in the new apartments, which, being twenty braccia wide,
and having a height, according as Tasso had constructed it, of not more than nine braccia,
was raised three braccia with beautiful ingenuity by Vasari, that is, to a total height of
twelve braccia, without moving the roof, which was half a pavilion roof.

But because in doing this, before it could become possible to paint, much time had to be devoted
to reconstructing the ceilings and to other works in that apartment and in others, Vasari himself
obtained leave to go to Arezzo to spend two months there together with Cristofano. However,
he did not succeed in being able to rest during that time, for the reason that he could not
refuse to go in those days to Cortona, where he painted in fresco the vaulting and the walls
of the Company of Jesus with the assistance of Cristofano, who acquitted himself very well,
and particularly in the twelve different sacrifices from the Old Testament which they executed
in the lunettes between the spandrels of the vaulting. Indeed, to speak more exactly, almost
the whole of this work was by the hand of Cristofano, Vasari having done nothing therein beyond
making certain sketches, designing some parts on the plaster, and then retouching it at times
in various places, according as it was necessary.

This work finished, which is not otherwise than grand, worthy of praise, and very well executed,
by reason of the great variety of things that are in it, they both returned to Florence in
the month of January of the year 1555. There, having taken in hand the Hall of the Elements,
while Vasari was painting the pictures of the ceiling, Cristofano executed some devices that
bind together the friezes of the beams in perpendicular lines, in which are heads of capricorns
and tortoises with the sail, devices of his Excellency. But the works in which he showed himself
most marvellous were some festoons of fruits that are in the friezes of the beams on the under
side, which are so beautiful that there is nothing better coloured or more natural to be seen,
particularly because they are separated one from another by certain masks, that hold in their
mouths the ligatures of the festoons, than which one would not be able to find any more varied
or more bizarre; in which manner of work it may be said that Cristofano was superior to any
other who has ever made it his principal and particular profession. This done, he painted some
large figures on that part of the walls where there is the Birth of Venus, but after the cartoons
of Vasari, and many little figures in a landscape, which were executed very well. In like manner,
on the wall where there are the Loves as tiny little children, fashioning the arrows of Cupid,
he painted the three Cyclopes forging thunderbolts for Jove. Over six doors he executed in
fresco six large ovals with ornaments in chiaroscuro and containing scenes in the colour of
bronze, which were very beautiful; and in the same hall, between the windows, he painted in
colours a Mercury and a Pluto, which are likewise very beautiful.

Work being then begun in the Chamber of the Goddess Ops, which is next to that described above,
he painted the four Seasons in fresco on the ceiling, and, in addition to the figures, some
festoons that were marvellous in their variety and beauty, for the reason that, even as those
of Spring were filled with a thousand kinds of flowers, so those of Summer were painted with
an infinite number of fruits and cereals, those of Autumn were of leaves and bunches of the
grape, and those of Winter were of onions, turnips, radishes, carrots, parsnips, and dried
leaves, not to mention that in the central picture, in which is the Car of Ops, he coloured
so beautifully in oils four lions that are drawing the Car, that nothing better could be done;
and, in truth, in painting animals he had no equal.

Then in the Chamber of Ceres, which is beside the last-named, he executed in certain angles
some little boys and festoons that are beautiful to a marvel. And in the central picture, where
Vasari had painted Ceres seeking for Proserpine with a lighted pine torch, upon a car drawn
by two serpents, Cristofano carried many things to completion with his own hand, because Vasari
was ill at that time and had left that picture, among other things, unfinished.

Finally, when it came to decorating a terrace that is beyond the Chamber of Jove and beside
that of Ops, it was decided that all the history of Juno should be painted there; and so, after
all the ornamentation in stucco had been finished, with very rich carvings and various compositions
of figures, wrought after the cartoons of Vasari, the same Vasari ordained that Cristofano
should execute that work by himself in fresco, desiring, since it was a work to be seen from
near, and of figures not higher than one braccio, that Gherardi should do something beautiful
in this, which was his peculiar profession. Cristofano, then, executed in an oval on the vaulting
a Marriage with Juno in the sky, and in a picture on one side Hebe, Goddess of Youth, and on
the other Iris, who is pointing to the rainbow in the heavens. On the same vaulting he painted
three other quadrangular pictures, two to match the others, and a larger one in a line with
the oval in which is the Marriage, and in the last-named picture is Juno seated in a car drawn
by peacocks. In one of the other two, which are on either side of that one, is the Goddess
of Power, and in the other Abundance with the Cornucopia at her feet. And in two other pictures
on the walls below, over the openings of two doors, are two other stories of Juno--the Transformation
of Io, the daughter of the River Inachus, into a Cow, and of Callisto into a Bear.

During the execution of that work his Excellency conceived a very great affection for Cristofano,
seeing him zealous and diligent in no ordinary manner at his work; for the morning had scarcely
broken into day when Cristofano would appear at his labour, of which he had such a love, and
it so delighted him, that very often he would not finish dressing before setting out. And at
times, nay, frequently, it happened that in his haste he put on a pair of shoes--all such things
he kept under his bed--that were not fellows, but of two kinds; and more often than not he
had his cloak wrong side out, with the hood on the inside. One morning, therefore, appearing
at an early hour at his work, where the Lord Duke and the Lady Duchess were standing looking
at it, while preparations were being made to set out for the chase, and the ladies and others
of the Court were making themselves ready, they noticed that Cristofano had as usual his cloak
wrong side out and the hood inside. At which both laughing, the Duke said: "What is your idea
in always wearing your cloak inside out?" "I know not, my Lord," answered Cristofano, "but
I mean to find some day a kind of cloak that shall have neither right side nor wrong side,
and shall be the same on both sides, for I have not the patience to think of wearing it in
any other way, since in the morning I generally dress and go out of the house in the dark,
besides that I have one eye so feeble that I can see nothing with it. But let your Excellency
look at what I paint, and not at my manner of dressing." The Duke said nothing in answer, but
within a few days he caused to be made for him a cloak of the finest cloth, with the pieces
sewn and drawn together in such a manner that there was no difference to be seen between outside
and inside, and the collar worked with braid in the same manner both inside and out, and so
also the trimming that it had round the edges. This being finished, he sent it to Cristofano
by a lackey, commanding the man that he should give it to him on the part of the Duke. Having
therefore received the cloak very early one morning, Cristofano, without making any further
ceremony, tried it on and then said to the lackey: "The Duke is a man of sense. Tell him that
it suits me well."

Now, since Cristofano was thus careless of his person and hated nothing more than to have to
put on new clothes or to go about too tightly constrained and confined in them, Vasari, who
knew this humour of his, whenever he observed that he was in need of any new clothes, used
to have them made for him in secret, and then, early one morning, used to place these in his
chamber and take away the old ones; and so Cristofano was forced to put on those that he found.
But it was marvellous sport to stand and hear him raging with fury as he dressed himself in
the new clothes. "Look here," he would say, "what devilments are these? Devil take it, can
a man not live in his own way in this world, without the enemies of comfort giving themselves
all this trouble?" One morning among others, Cristofano having put on a pair of white hose,
the painter Domenico Benci, who was also working in the Palace with Vasari, contrived to persuade
him to go with himself, in company with other young men, to the Madonna dell'Impruneta. There
they walked, danced, and enjoyed themselves all day, and in the evening, after supper, they
returned home. Then Cristofano, who was tired, went off straightway to his room to sleep; but,
when he set himself to take off his hose, what with their being new and his having sweated,
he was not able to pull off more than one of them. Now Vasari, having gone in the evening to
see how he was, found that he had fallen asleep with one leg covered and the other bare; whereupon,
one servant holding his leg and the other pulling at the stocking, they contrived to draw it
off, while he lay cursing clothes, Giorgio, and him who invented such fashions as--so he said--kept
men bound in chains like slaves. Nay, he grumbled that he would take leave of them all and
by hook or by crook return to S. Giustino, where he was allowed to live in his own way and
had not all these restraints; and it was the devil's own business to pacify him.

It pleased him to talk seldom, and he loved that others also should be brief in speaking, insomuch
that he would have gone so far as to have men's proper names very short, like that of a slave
belonging to M. Sforza, who was called "M." "These," said Cristofano, "are fine names, and
not your Giovan Francesco and Giovanni Antonio, which take an hour's work to pronounce;" and
since he was a good fellow at heart, and said these things in his own jargon of the Borgo,
it would have made the Doleful Knight himself laugh. He delighted to go on feast-days to the
places where legends and printed pictures were sold, and he would stay there the whole day;
and if he bought some, more often than not, while he went about looking at the others, he would
leave them at some place where he had been leaning. And never, unless he was forced, would
he go on horseback, although he was born from a noble family in his native place and was rich
enough.

Finally, his brother Borgognone having died, he had to go to the Borgo; and Vasari, who had
drawn much of the money of his salary and had kept it for him, said to him: "See, I have all
this money of yours, it is right that you should take it with you and make use of it in your
requirements." "I want no money," answered Cristofano, "take it for yourself. For me it is
enough to have the luck to stay with you and to live and die in your company." "It is not my
custom," replied Vasari, "to profit by the labour of others. If you will not have it, I shall
send it to your father Guido." "That you must not do," said Cristofano, "for he would only
waste it, as he always does." In the end, he took the money and went off to the Borgo, but
in poor health and with little contentment of mind; and after arriving there, what with his
sorrow at the death of his brother, whom he had loved very dearly, and a cruel flux of the
reins, he died in a few days, after receiving the full sacraments of the Church and distributing
to his family and to many poor persons the money that he had brought. He declared a little
before his death that it grieved him for no other reason save that he was leaving Vasari too
much embarrassed by the great labours to which he had set his hand in the Palace of the Duke.
Not long afterwards, his Excellency having heard of the death of Cristofano, and that with
true regret, he caused a head of him to be made in marble and sent it with the underwritten
epitaph from Florence to the Borgo, where it was placed in S. Francesco:

                D. O. M.
     CHRISTOPHORO GHERARDO BURGENSI
        PINGENDI ARTE PRÆSTANTISS.
  QUOD GEORGIUS VASARIUS ARETINUS HUJUS
          ARTIS FACILE PRINCEPS
              IN EXORNANDO
      COSMI FLORENTIN. DUCIS PALATIO
        ILLIUS OPERAM QUAM MAXIME
                PROBAVERIT,
        PICTORES HETRUSCI POSUERE.
             OBIIT A.D. MDLVI.
       VIXIT AN. LVI, M. III, D. VI.

JACOPO DA PONTORMO

LIFE OF JACOPO DA PONTORMO

PAINTER OF FLORENCE

The ancestors--or rather, the elders of Bartolommeo di Jacopo di Martino, the father of Jacopo
da Pontormo, whose Life we are now about to write--had their origin, so some declare, in Ancisa,
a township in the Upper Valdarno, famous enough because from it the ancestors of Messer Francesco
Petrarca likewise derived their origin. But, whether it was from there or from some other place
that his elders came, the above-named Bartolommeo, who was a Florentine, and, so I have been
told, of the family of the Carrucci, is said to have been a disciple of Domenico Ghirlandajo,
and, after executing many works in the Valdarno, as a painter passing able for those times,
to have finally made his way to Empoli to carry out certain labours, living there and in the
neighbouring places, and taking to wife at Pontormo a most virtuous girl of good condition,
called Alessandra, the daughter of Pasquale di Zanobi and of his wife Monna Brigida. To this
Bartolommeo, then, there was born in the year 1493 our Jacopo. But the father having died in
the year 1499, the mother in the year 1504, and the grandfather in the year 1506, Jacopo was
left to the care of his grandmother, Monna Brigida, who kept him for several years at Pontormo,
and had him taught reading, writing, and the first rudiments of Latin grammar; and finally,
at the age of thirteen, he was taken by the same guardian to Florence, and placed with the
Pupilli, to the end that his small property might be safeguarded and preserved by that board,
as is the custom. And after settling the boy himself in the house of one Battista, a shoemaker
distantly related to him, Monna Brigida returned to Pontormo, taking with her a sister of Jacopo's.
But not long after that, Monna Brigida herself having died, Jacopo was forced to bring that
sister to Florence, and to place her in the house of a kinsman called Niccolaio, who lived
in the Via de' Servi; and the girl, also, following the rest of her family, died in the year
1512, before ever she was married.

But to return to Jacopo; he had not been many months in Florence when he was placed by Bernardo
Vettori with Leonardo da Vinci, and shortly afterwards with Mariotto Albertinelli, then with
Piero di Cosimo, and finally, in the year 1512, with Andrea del Sarto, with whom, likewise,
he did not stay long, for the reason that, after Jacopo had executed the cartoons of the little
arch for the Servites, of which there will be an account below, it appears that Andrea never
again looked favourably upon him, whatever may have been the reason. The first work, then,
that Jacopo executed at that time was a little Annunciation for one his friend, a tailor; but
the tailor having died before the work was finished, it remained in the hands of Jacopo, who
was at that time with Mariotto, and Mariotto took pride in it, and showed it as a rare work
to all who entered his workshop. Now Raffaello da Urbino, coming in those days to Florence,
saw with infinite marvel the work and the lad who had done it, and prophesied of Jacopo that
which was afterwards seen to come true. Not long afterwards, Mariotto having departed from
Florence and gone to Viterbo to execute the panel-picture that Fra Bartolommeo had begun there,
Jacopo, who was young, solitary, and melancholy, being thus left without a master, went by
himself to work under Andrea del Sarto, at the very moment when Andrea had finished the stories
of S. Filippo in the court of the Servites, which pleased Jacopo vastly, as did all his other
works and his whole manner and design. Jacopo having then set himself to make every effort
to imitate him, no long time passed before it was seen that he had made marvellous progress
in drawing and colouring, insomuch that from his facility it seemed as if he had been many
years in art.

Now Andrea had finished in those days a panel-picture of the Annunciation for the Church of
the Friars of S. Gallo, which is now destroyed, as has been related in his Life; and he gave
the predella of that panel-picture to Jacopo to execute in oils. Jacopo painted in it a Dead
Christ, with two little Angels who are weeping over Him and illuminating Him with two torches,
and, in two round pictures at the sides, two Prophets, which were executed by him so ably,
that they have the appearance of having been painted not by a mere lad but by a practised master;
but it may also be, as Bronzino says, that he remembers having heard from Jacopo da Pontormo
himself that Rosso likewise worked on this predella. And even as Andrea was assisted by Jacopo
in executing the predella, so also was he aided by him in finishing the many pictures and works
that Andrea continually had in hand.

In the meantime, Cardinal Giovanni de' Medici having been elected Supreme Pontiff under the
title of Leo X, there were being made all over Florence by the friends and adherents of that
house many escutcheons of the Pontiff, in stone, in marble, on canvas, and in fresco. Wherefore
the Servite Friars, wishing to give some sign of their service and devotion to that house and
Pontiff, caused the arms of Leo to be made in stone, and placed in the centre of the arch in
the first portico of the Nunziata, which is on the piazza; and shortly afterwards they arranged
that it should be overlaid with gold by the painter Andrea di Cosimo, and adorned with grotesques,
of which he was an excellent master, and with the devices of the house of Medici, and that,
in addition, on either side of it there should be painted a Faith and a Charity. But Andrea
di Cosimo, knowing that he was not able to execute all these things by himself, thought of
giving the two figures to some other to do; and so, having sent for Jacopo, who was then not
more than nineteen years of age, he gave him those two figures to execute, although he had
no little trouble to persuade him to undertake to do it, seeing that, being a mere lad, he
did not wish to expose himself at the outset to such a risk, or to work in a place of so much
importance. However, having taken heart, although he was not as well practised in fresco as
in oil-painting, Jacopo undertook to paint those two figures. And, withdrawing--for he was
still working with Andrea del Sarto--to draw the cartoons at S. Antonio by the Porta a Faenza,
where he lived, in a short time he carried them to completion; which done, one day he took
his master Andrea to see them. Andrea, after seeing them with infinite marvel and amazement,
praised them vastly; but afterwards, as has been related, whether it was from envy or from
some other reason, he never again looked with a kindly eye on Jacopo; nay, Jacopo going several
times to his workshop, either the door was not opened to him or he was mocked at by the assistants,
insomuch that he retired altogether by himself, beginning to live on the least that he could,
for he was very poor, and to study with the greatest assiduity.

When Andrea di Cosimo, then, had finished gilding the escutcheon and all the eaves, Jacopo
set to work all by himself to finish the rest; and being carried away by the desire to make
a name, by his joy in working, and by nature, which had endowed him with extraordinary grace
and fertility of genius, he executed that work with incredible rapidity and with such perfection
as could not have been surpassed by an old, well-practised, and excellent master. Wherefore,
growing in courage through this experience, and thinking that he could do a much better work,
he took it into his head that he would throw to the ground all that he had done, without saying
a word to anyone, and paint it all over again after another design that he had in his brain.
But in the meantime the friars, having seen that the work was finished and that Jacopo came
no more to his labour, sought out Andrea, and so pestered him that he resolved to uncover it.
Having therefore looked for Jacopo, in order to ask him whether he wished to do any more to
the work, and not finding him, for the reason that he stayed shut up over his new design and
would not answer to anyone, Andrea had the screen and scaffolding removed and the work uncovered.
The same evening Jacopo, having issued from his house in order to go to the Servite convent,
and, when it should be night, to throw to the ground the work that he had done, and to put
into execution the new design, found the scaffolding taken away and everything uncovered, and
a multitude of people all around gazing at the work. Whereupon, full of fury, he sought out
Andrea, and complained of his having uncovered it without his consent, going on to describe
what he had in mind to do. To which Andrea answered, laughing: "You are wrong to complain,
because the work that you have done is so good that, if you had it to do again, you may take
my word for it that you would not be able to do it better. You will not want for work, so keep
these designs for another occasion." That work, as may be seen, was of such a kind and so beautiful,
what with the novelty of the manner, the sweetness in the heads of those two women, and the
loveliness of the graceful and lifelike children, that it was the most beautiful work in fresco
that had ever been seen up to that time; and, besides the children with the Charity, there
are two others in the air holding a piece of drapery over the escutcheon of the Pope, who are
so beautiful that nothing better could be done, not to mention that all the figures have very
strong relief and are so executed in colouring and in every other respect that one is not able
to praise them enough. And Michelagnolo Buonarroti, seeing the work one day, and reflecting
that a youth of nineteen had done it, said: "This young man, judging from what may be seen
here, will become such that, if he lives and perseveres, he will exalt this art to the heavens."
This renown and fame being heard by the men of Pontormo, they sent for Jacopo, and commissioned
him to execute in their stronghold, over a gate placed on the main road, an escutcheon of Pope
Leo with two little boys, which was very beautiful; but already it has been little less than
ruined by rain.

At the Carnival in the same year, all Florence being gay and full of rejoicing at the election
of the above-named Leo X, many festive spectacles were ordained, and among them two of great
beauty and extraordinary cost, which were given by two companies of noblemen and gentlemen
of the city. One of these, which was called the Diamante,[5] had for its head the brother of
the Pope, Signor Giuliano de' Medici, who had given it that name because the diamond had been
a device of his father, the elder Lorenzo; and the head of the other, which had as name and
device the Broncone,[6] was Signor Lorenzo, the son of Piero de' Medici, who had for his device
a Broncone--that is, a dried trunk of laurel growing green again with leaves, as it were to
signify that he was reviving and restoring the name of his grandfather.

         [Footnote 5: Diamond.]

         [Footnote 6: Trunk or branch.]

By the Company of the Diamante, then, a commission was given to M. Andrea Dazzi, who was then
lecturing on Greek and Latin Letters at the Studio in Florence, to look to the invention of
a triumphal procession; whereupon he arranged one similar to those that the Romans used to
have for their triumphs, with three very beautiful cars wrought in wood, and painted with rich
and beautiful art. In the first was Boyhood, with a most beautiful array of boys. In the second
was Manhood, with many persons who had done great things in their manly prime. And in the third
was Old Age, with many famous men who had performed great achievements in their last years.
All these persons were very richly apparelled, insomuch that it was thought that nothing better
could be done. The architects of these cars were Raffaello delle Vivole, Il Carota the wood-carver,
the painter Andrea di Cosimo, and Andrea del Sarto; those who arranged and prepared the dresses
of the figures were Ser Piero da Vinci, the father of Leonardo, and Bernardino di Giordano,
both men of beautiful ingenuity; and to Jacopo da Pontormo alone it fell to paint all the three
cars, wherein he executed various scenes in chiaroscuro of the Transformations of the Gods
into different forms, which are now in the possession of Pietro Paolo Galeotto, an excellent
goldsmith. The first car bore, written in very clear characters, the word "Erimus," the second
"Sumus," and the third "Fuimus"--that is, "We shall be," "We are," and "We have been." The
song began, "The years fly on...."

Having seen these triumphal cars, Signor Lorenzo, the head of the Company of the Broncone,
desiring that they should be surpassed, gave the charge of the whole work to Jacopo Nardi,
a noble and most learned gentleman, to whom, for what he afterwards became, his native city
of Florence is much indebted. This Jacopo prepared six triumphal cars, in order to double the
number of those executed by the Diamante. The first, drawn by a pair of oxen decked with herbage,
represented the Age of Saturn and Janus, called the Age of Gold; and on the summit of the car
were Saturn with the Scythe, and Janus with the two heads and with the key of the Temple of
Peace in the hand, and at his feet a figure of Fury bound, with a vast number of things around
appertaining to Saturn, all executed most beautifully in different colours by the genius of
Pontormo. Accompanying this car were six couples of Shepherds, naked but for certain parts
covered by skins of marten and sable, with footwear of various kinds after the ancient manner,
and with their wallets, and on their heads garlands of many kinds of leaves. The horses on
which these Shepherds sat were without saddles, but covered with skins of lions, tigers, and
lynxes, the paws of which, overlaid with gold, hung at their sides with much grace and beauty.
The ornaments of their croups and of the grooms were of gold cord, the stirrups were heads
of rams, dogs, and other suchlike animals, and the bridles and reins made with silver cord
and various kinds of verdure. Each Shepherd had four grooms in the garb of shepherd-boys, dressed
more simply in other skins, with torches fashioned in the form of dry trunks and branches of
pine, which made a most beautiful sight.

Upon the second car, drawn by two pairs of oxen draped in the richest cloth, with garlands
on their heads and great paternosters hanging from their gilded horns, was Numa Pompilius,
the second King of Rome, with the books of religion and all the sacerdotal instruments and
the things appertaining to sacrifices, for the reason that he was the originator and first
founder of religion and sacrifices among the Romans. This car was accompanied by six priests
on most beautiful she-mules, their heads covered with hoods of linen embroidered with silver
and gold in a masterly pattern of ivy-leaves; and on their bodies they had sacerdotal vestments
in the ancient fashion, with borders and fringes of gold all round, and in the hands one had
a thurible, another a vase of gold, and the rest other similar things. At their stirrups they
had attendants in the guise of Levites, and the torches that these had in their hands were
after the manner of ancient candelabra, and wrought with beautiful artistry.

The third car represented the Consulate of Titus Manlius Torquatus, who was Consul after the
end of the first Carthaginian war, and governed in such a manner, that in his time there flourished
in Rome every virtue and every blessing. That car, upon which was Titus himself, with many
ornaments executed by Pontormo, was drawn by eight most beautiful horses, and before it went
six couples of Senators clad in the toga, on horses covered with cloth of gold, accompanied
by a great number of grooms representing Lictors, with the fasces, axes, and other things appertaining
to the administration of justice.

The fourth car, drawn by four buffaloes disguised as elephants, represented Julius Cæsar in
Triumph for the victory gained over Cleopatra, the car being all painted by Pontormo with his
most famous deeds. That car was accompanied by six couples of men-at-arms clad in rich and
brightly shining armour all bordered with gold, with their lances on their hips; and the torches
that the half-armed grooms carried had the form of trophies, designed in various ways.

The fifth car, drawn by winged horses that had the form of gryphons, bore upon it Cæsar Augustus,
the Lord of the Universe, accompanied by six couples of Poets on horseback, all crowned, as
was also Cæsar, with laurel, and dressed in costumes varying according to their provinces;
and these were there because poets were always much favoured by Cæsar Augustus, whom they exalted
with their works to the heavens. And to the end that they might be recognized, each of them
had across his forehead a scroll after the manner of a fillet, on which was his name.

On the sixth car, drawn by four pairs of heifers richly draped, was Trajan, that just Emperor,
before whom, as he sat on the car, which was painted very well by Pontormo, there rode upon
beautiful and finely caparisoned horses six couples of Doctors of Law, with togas reaching
to their feet and with capes of miniver, such as it was the ancient custom for Doctors to wear.
The grooms who carried their torches, a great number, were scriveners, copyists, and notaries,
with books and writings in their hands.

After these six came the car, or rather, triumphal chariot, of the Age or Era of Gold, wrought
with the richest and most beautiful artistry, with many figures in relief executed by Baccio
Bandinelli, and very beautiful paintings by the hand of Pontormo; among those in relief the
four Cardinal Virtues being highly extolled. From the centre of the car rose a great sphere
in the form of a globe of the world, upon which there lay prostrate on his face, as if dead,
a man clad in armour all eaten with rust, who had the back open and cleft, and from the fissure
there issued a child all naked and gilded, who represented the new birth of the age of gold
and the end of the age of iron, from which he was coming forth into that new birth by reason
of the election of that Pontiff; and this same significance had the dry trunk putting forth
new leaves, although some said that the matter of that dry trunk was an allusion to the Lorenzo
de' Medici who became Duke of Urbino. I should mention that the gilded boy, who was the son
of a baker, died shortly afterwards through the sufferings that he endured in order to gain
ten crowns.

The chant that was sung in that masquerade, as is the custom, was composed by the above-named
Jacopo Nardi, and the first stanza ran thus:

  Colui che da le leggi alla Natura
  E i varii stati e secoli dispone,
  D'ogni bene è cagione;
  E il mal, quanto permette, al Mondo dura;
  Onde questa figura
  Contemplando si vede,
  Come con certo piede
  L'un secol dopo l'altro al Mondo viene
  E muta il bene in male, e 'l male in bene.

From the works that he executed for this festival Pontormo gained, besides the profit, so much
praise, that probably few young men of his age ever gained as much in that city; wherefore,
Pope Leo himself afterwards coming to Florence, he was much employed in the festive preparations
that were made, for he had attached himself to Baccio da Montelupo, a sculptor advanced in
years, who made an arch of wood at the head of the Via del Palagio, at the steps of the Badia,
and Pontormo painted it all with very beautiful scenes, which afterwards came to an evil end
through the scant diligence of those who had charge of them. Only one remained, that in which
Pallas is tuning an instrument into accord with the lyre of Apollo, with great grace and beauty;
from which scene one is able to judge what excellence and perfection were in the other works
and figures. For the same festivities Ridolfo Ghirlandajo had received the task of fitting
up and embellishing the Sala del Papa, which is attached to the Convent of S. Maria Novella,
and was formerly the residence of the Pontiffs in the city of Florence; but being pressed for
time, he was forced to avail himself in some things of the work of others, and thus, after
having adorned all the other rooms, he laid on Jacopo da Pontormo the charge of executing some
pictures in fresco in the chapel where his Holiness was to hear Mass every morning. Whereupon,
setting his hand to the work, Jacopo painted there a God the Father with many little Angels,
and a Veronica who had the Sudarium with the image of Jesus Christ; which work, thus executed
by Jacopo in so short a time, was much extolled.

He then painted in fresco, in a chapel of the Church of S. Ruffillo, behind the Archbishop's
Palace in Florence, Our Lady with her Son in her arms between S. Michelagnolo and S. Lucia,
and two other Saints kneeling; and, in the lunette of the chapel, a God the Father with some
Seraphim about Him. Next, having been commissioned by Maestro Jacopo, a Servite friar, as he
had greatly desired, to paint a part of the court of the Servites, because Andrea del Sarto
had gone off to France and left the work of that court unfinished, he set himself with much
study to make the cartoons. But since he was poorly provided with the things of this world,
and was obliged, while studying in order to win honour, to have something to live upon, he
executed over the door of the Hospital for Women--behind the Church of the Priest's Hospital,
between the Piazza di S. Marco and the Via di S. Gallo, and exactly opposite to the wall of
the Sisters of S. Catharine of Siena--two most beautiful figures in chiaroscuro, with Christ
in the guise of a pilgrim awaiting certain women in order to give them hospitality and lodging;
which work was deservedly much extolled in those days, as it still is, by all good judges.
At this same time he painted some pictures and little scenes in oils for the Masters of the
Mint, on the Carro della Moneta, which goes every year in the procession of S. John; the workmanship
of which car was by the hand of Marco del Tasso. And over the door of the Company of Cecilia,
on the heights of Fiesole, he painted a S. Cecilia with some roses in her hand, coloured in
fresco, and so beautiful and so well suited to that place, that, for a work of that kind, it
is one of the best paintings in fresco that there are to be seen.

These works having been seen by the above-named Servite friar, Maestro Jacopo, he became even
more ardent in his desire, and he determined at all costs to cause Jacopo to finish the work
in that court of the Servites, thinking that in emulation of the other masters who had worked
there he would execute something of extraordinary beauty in the part that remained to be painted.
Having therefore set his hand to it, from a desire no less of glory and honour than of gain,
Jacopo painted the scene of the Visitation of the Madonna, in a manner a little freer and more
lively than had been his wont up to that time; which circumstance gave an infinite excellence
to the work, in addition to its other extraordinary beauties, in that the women, little boys,
youths, and old men are executed in fresco with such softness and such harmony of colouring,
that it is a thing to marvel at, and the flesh-colours of a little boy who is seated on some
steps, and, indeed, those likewise of all the other figures, are such that they could not be
done better or with more softness in fresco. This work, then, after the others that Jacopo
had executed, gave a sure earnest of his future perfection to the craftsmen, comparing them
with those of Andrea del Sarto and Franciabigio. Jacopo delivered the work finished in the
year 1516, and received in payment sixteen crowns and no more.

Having then been allotted by Francesco Pucci, if I remember rightly, the altar-piece of a chapel
that he had caused to be built in S. Michele Bisdomini in the Via de' Servi, Jacopo executed
the work in so beautiful a manner, and with a colouring so vivid, that it seems almost impossible
to credit it. In this altar-piece Our Lady, who is seated, is handing the Infant Jesus to S.
Joseph, in whose countenance there is a smile so animated and so lifelike that it is a marvel;
and very beautiful, likewise, is a little boy painted to represent S. John the Baptist, and
also two other little children, naked, who are upholding a canopy. There may be seen also a
S. John the Evangelist, a most beautiful old man, and a S. Francis kneeling, who is absolutely
alive, for, with the fingers of one hand interlocked with those of the other, and wholly intent
in contemplating fixedly with his eyes and his mind the Virgin and her Son, he appears really
to be breathing. And no less beautiful is the S. James who may be seen beside the others. Wherefore
it is no marvel that this is the most beautiful altar-piece that was ever executed by this
truly rare painter.

I used to believe that it was after this work, and not before, that the same Jacopo had painted
in fresco the two most lovely and graceful little boys who are supporting a coat of arms over
a door within a passage on the Lungarno, between the Ponte S. Trinita and the Ponte alla Carraja,
for Bartolommeo Lanfredini; but since Bronzino, who may be supposed to know the truth about
these matters, declares that they were among the first works that Jacopo executed, we must
believe that this is so without a doubt, and praise Pontormo for them all the more, seeing
that they are so beautiful that they cannot be matched, and yet were among the earliest works
that he did.

But to resume the order of our story: after these works, Jacopo executed for the men of Pontormo
an altar-piece wherein are S. Michelagnolo and S. John the Evangelist, which was placed in
the Chapel of the Madonna in S. Agnolo, their principal church. At this time one of two young
men who were working under Jacopo--that is, Giovan Maria Pichi of Borgo a S. Sepolcro, who
was acquitting himself passing well, and who afterwards became a Servite friar, and executed
some works in the Borgo and in the Pieve a S. Stefano--while still working, I say, under Jacopo,
painted in a large picture a nude S. Quentin in martyrdom, in order to send it to the Borgo.
But since Jacopo, like a loving master to his disciple, desired that Giovan Maria should win
honour and praise, he set himself to retouch it, and so, not being able to take his hands off
it, and retouching one day the head, the next day the arms, and the day after the body, the
retouching became such that it may almost be said that the work is entirely by his hand. Wherefore
it is no marvel that this picture, which is now in the Church of the Observantine Friars of
S. Francis in the Borgo, is most beautiful.

The second of the two young men, who was Giovanni Antonio Lappoli of Arezzo, of whom there
has been an account in another place, like a vain fellow had taken a portrait of himself with
a mirror, also while he was working under Jacopo. But his master, thinking that the portrait
was a poor likeness, took it in hand himself, and executed a portrait that is so good that
it has the appearance of life; which portrait is now at Arezzo, in the house of the heirs of
that Giovanni Antonio.

Pontormo also portrayed in one and the same picture two of his dearest friends--one the son-in-law
of Beccuccio Bicchieraio, and another, whose name likewise I do not know; it is enough that
the portraits are by the hand of Pontormo. He then executed for Bartolommeo Ginori, in anticipation
of his death, a string of pennons, according to the custom of the Florentines; and in the upper
part of all these, on the white taffeta, he painted a Madonna with the Child, and on the coloured
fringe below he painted the arms of that family, as is the custom. For the centre of the string,
which was of twenty-four pennons, he made two all of white taffeta without any fringe, on which
he painted two figures of S. Bartholomew, each two braccia high. The size of all these pennons
and their almost novel manner caused all the others that had been made up to that time to appear
poor and mean; and this was the reason that they began to be made of the size that they are
at the present day, with great grace and much less expense for gold.

At the head of the garden and vineyard of the Friars of S. Gallo, without the gate that is
called after that Saint, in a chapel that is in a line with the central entrance, he painted
a Dead Christ, a Madonna weeping, and two little Angels in the air, one of whom was holding
the Chalice of the Passion in his hands, and the other was supporting the fallen head of Christ.
On one side was S. John the Evangelist, all tearful, with the arms stretched out, and on the
other S. Augustine in episcopal robes, who, leaning with the left hand on the pastoral staff,
stood in an attitude truly full of sorrow, contemplating the Dead Saviour. And for Messer Spina,
the familiar friend of Giovanni Salviati, he executed in a courtyard, opposite to the principal
door of his house, the coat of arms of that Giovanni (who had been made a Cardinal in those
days by Pope Leo), with the red hat above and two little boys standing--works in fresco which
are very beautiful, and much esteemed by Messer Filippo Spina, as being by the hand of Pontormo.

Jacopo also worked, in competition with other masters, on the ornamentation in wood that was
formerly executed in a magnificent manner, as has been related elsewhere, in some apartments
of Pier Francesco Borgherini; and, in particular, he painted there with his own hand on two
coffers some stories from the life of Joseph in little figures, which were truly most beautiful.
And whoever wishes to see the best work that he ever did in all his life, in order to consider
how able and masterly was Jacopo in giving liveliness to heads, in grouping figures, in varying
attitudes, and in beauty of invention, let him look at a scene of some size, likewise in little
figures, in the corner on the left hand as one enters through the door, in the chamber of Borgherini,
who was a nobleman of Florence; in which scene is Joseph in Egypt, as it were a Prince or a
King, in the act of receiving his father Jacob with all his brethren, the sons of that Jacob,
with extraordinary affection. Among these figures he portrayed at the foot of the scene, seated
upon some steps, Il Bronzino, who was then a boy and his disciple--a figure with a basket,
which is lifelike and beautiful to a marvel. And if this scene were on a greater scale, on
a large panel or a wall, instead of being small, I would venture to say that it would not be
possible to find another picture executed with the grace, excellence, and even perfection wherewith
this one was painted by Jacopo; wherefore it was rightly regarded by all craftsmen as the most
beautiful picture that Pontormo ever executed. Nor is it to be wondered at that Borgherini
should have prized it as he did, and should have been besought to sell it by great persons
as a present for mighty lords and princes.

On account of the siege of Florence Pier Francesco retired to Lucca, and Giovan Battista della
Palla, who desired to obtain, together with other things that he was transporting into France,
the decorations of this chamber, so that they might be presented to King Francis in the name
of the Signoria, received such favours, and went to work so effectively with both words and
deeds, that the Gonfalonier granted a commission that they should be taken away after payment
to the wife of Pier Francesco. Whereupon some others went with Giovan Battista to execute the
will of the Signori; but, when they arrived at the house of Pier Francesco, his wife, who was
in the house, poured on Giovan Battista the greatest abuse that was ever spoken to any man.
"So you make bold, Giovan Battista," said she, "you vile slop-dealer, you little twopenny pedlar,
to strip the ornaments from the chambers of noblemen and despoil our city of her richest and
most honoured treasures, as you have done and are always doing, in order to embellish with
them the countries of foreigners, our enemies! At you I do not marvel, you, a base plebeian
and the enemy of your country, but at the magistrates of this city, who aid and abet you in
these shameful rascalities. This bed, which you would seize for your own private interest and
for greed of gain, although you keep your evil purpose cloaked with a veil of righteousness,
this is the bed of my nuptials, in honour of which my husband's father, Salvi, made all these
magnificent and regal decorations, which I revere in memory of him and from love for my husband,
and mean to defend with my very blood and with life itself. Out of this house with these your
cut-throats, Giovan Battista, and go to those who sent you with orders that these things should
be removed from their places, for I am not the woman to suffer a single thing to be moved from
here. If they who believe in you, a vile creature of no account, wish to make presents to King
Francis of France, let them go and strip their own houses, and take the ornaments and beds
from their own chambers, and send them to him. And you, if you are ever again so bold as to
come to this house on such an errand, I will make you smart sorely for it, and teach you what
respect should be paid by such as you to the houses of noblemen." Thus spoke Madonna Margherita,
the wife of Pier Francesco Borgherini, and the daughter of Ruberto Acciaiuoli, a most noble
and wise citizen; and she, a truly courageous woman and a worthy daughter of such a father,
with her noble ardour and spirit, was the reason that those gems are still preserved in that house.

Giovan Maria Benintendi, about this same time, had adorned an antechamber in his house with
many pictures by the hands of various able men; and after the work executed for Borgherini,
incited by hearing Jacopo da Pontormo very highly praised, he caused a picture to be painted
by him with the Adoration of the Magi, who went to Bethlehem to see Christ; which work, since
Jacopo devoted to it much study and diligence, proved to be well varied and beautiful in the
heads and in every other part, and to be truly worthy of all praise. Afterwards he executed
for Messer Goro da Pistoia, then Secretary to the Medici, a picture with the portrait of the
Magnificent Cosimo de' Medici, the elder, from the knees upwards, which is indeed worthy to
be extolled; and this portrait is now in the house of Messer Ottaviano de' Medici, in the possession
of his son, Messer Alessandro, a young man--besides the distinction and nobility of his blood--of
most upright character, well lettered, and the worthy son of the Magnificent Ottaviano and
of Madonna Francesca, the daughter of Jacopo Salviati and the maternal aunt of the Lord Duke
Cosimo.

By means of this work, and particularly this head of Cosimo, Pontormo became the friend of
Messer Ottaviano; and the Great Hall at Poggio a Caiano having then to be painted, there were
given to him to paint the two ends where the round openings are that give light--that is, the
windows--from the vaulting down to the floor. Whereupon, desiring to do himself honour even
beyond his wont, both from regard for the place and from emulation of the other painters who
were working there, he set himself to study with such diligence, that he overshot the mark,
for the reason that, destroying and doing over again every day what he had done the day before,
he racked his brains in such a manner that it was a tragedy; but all the time he was always
making new discoveries, which brought credit to himself and beauty to the work. Thus, having
to execute a Vertumnus with his husbandmen, he painted a peasant seated with a vine-pruner
in his hand, which is so beautiful and so well done that it is a very rare thing, even as certain
children that are there are lifelike and natural beyond all belief. On the other side he painted
Pomona and Diana, with other Goddesses, enveloping them perhaps too abundantly with draperies.
However, the work as a whole is beautiful and much extolled; but while it was being executed
Leo was overtaken by death, and so it remained unfinished, like many other similar works at
Rome, Florence, Loreto, and other places; nay, the whole world was left poor, being robbed
of the true Mæcenas of men of talent.

Having returned to Florence, Jacopo painted in a picture a seated figure of S. Augustine as
a Bishop, who is giving the benediction, with two little nude Angels flying through the air,
who are very beautiful; which picture is over an altar in the little Church of the Sisters
of S. Clemente in the Via di S. Gallo. He carried to completion, likewise, a picture of a Pietà
with certain nude Angels, which was a very beautiful work, and held very dear by certain merchants
of Ragusa, for whom he painted it; but most beautiful of all in this picture was a landscape
taken for the most part from an engraving by Albrecht Dürer. He also painted a picture of Our
Lady with the Child in her arms, and some little Angels about her, which is now in the house
of Alessandro Neroni; and for certain Spaniards he executed another like it--that is, of the
Madonna--but different from the one described above and in another manner, which picture, being
for sale in a second-hand dealer's shop many years after, was bought by Bartolommeo Panciatichi
at the suggestion of Bronzino.

Then, in the year 1522, there being a slight outbreak of plague in Florence, and many persons
therefore departing in order to avoid that most infectious sickness and to save themselves,
an occasion presented itself to Jacopo of flying the city and removing himself to some distance,
for a certain Prior of the Certosa, a place built by the Acciaiuoli three miles away from Florence,
had to have some pictures painted in fresco at the corners of a very large and beautiful cloister
that surrounds a lawn, and Jacopo was brought to his notice; whereupon the Prior had him sought
out, and he, having accepted the work very willingly at such a time, went off to Certosa, taking
with him only Bronzino. There, after a trial of that mode of life, that quiet, that silence,
and that solitude--all things after the taste and nature of Jacopo--he thought with such an
occasion to make a special effort in the matters of art, and to show to the world that he had
acquired greater perfection and a different manner since those works that he had executed before.
Now not long before there had come from Germany to Florence many sheets printed from engravings
done with great subtlety with the burin by Albrecht Dürer, a most excellent German painter
and a rare engraver of plates on copper and on wood; and, among others, many scenes, both large
and small, of the Passion of Jesus Christ, in which was all the perfection and excellence of
engraving with the burin that could ever be achieved, what with the beauty and variety of the
vestments and the invention. Jacopo, having to paint at the corners of those cloisters scenes
from the Passion of the Saviour, thought to avail himself of the above-named inventions of
Albrecht Dürer, in the firm belief that he would satisfy not only himself but also the greater
part of the craftsmen of Florence, who were all proclaiming with one voice and with common
consent and agreement the beauty of those engravings and the excellence of Albrecht. Setting
himself therefore to imitate that manner, and seeking to give to the expressions of the heads
of his figures that liveliness and variety which Albrecht had given to his, he caught it so
thoroughly, that the charm of his own early manner, which had been given to him by nature,
all full of sweetness and grace, suffered a great change from that new study and labour, and
was so impaired through his stumbling on that German manner, that in all these works, although
they are all beautiful, there is but a sorry remnant to be seen of that excellence and grace
that he had given up to that time to all his figures.

At the entrance to the cloister, then, in one corner, he painted Christ in the Garden, counterfeiting
so well the darkness of night illumined by the light of the moon, that it appears almost like
daylight; and while Christ is praying, not far distant are Peter, James, and John sleeping,
executed in a manner so similar to that of Dürer, that it is a marvel. Not far away is Judas
leading the Jews, likewise with a countenance so strange, even as the features of all those
soldiers are depicted in the German manner with bizarre expressions, that it moves him who
beholds it to pity for the simplicity of the man, who sought with such patience to learn that
which others avoid and seek to lose, and all to lose the manner that surpassed all others in
excellence and gave infinite pleasure to everyone. Did not Pontormo know, then, that the Germans
and Flemings came to these parts to learn the Italian manner, which he with such effort sought
to abandon as if it were bad?

Beside this scene is one in which is Christ led by the Jews before Pilate, and in the Saviour
he painted all the humility that could possibly be imagined in the Person of Innocence betrayed
by the sins of men, and in the wife of Pilate that pity and dread for themselves which those
have who fear the divine judgment; which woman, while she pleads the cause of Christ before
her husband, gazes into His countenance with pitying wonder. Round Pilate are some soldiers
so characteristic in the expressions of the faces and in the German garments, that one who
knew not by whose hand was that work would believe it to have been executed in reality by ultramontanes.
It is true, indeed, that in the distance in this scene there is a cup-bearer of Pilate's that
is descending some steps with a basin and a ewer in his hands, carrying to his master the means
to wash the hands, who is lifelike and very beautiful, having in him something of the old manner
of Jacopo.

Having next to paint the Resurrection of Christ in one of the other corners, the fancy came
to Jacopo, as to one who had no steadfastness in his brain and was always cogitating new things,
to change his colouring; and so he executed that work with a colouring in fresco so soft and
so good, that, if he had done the work in another manner than that same German, it would certainly
have been very beautiful, for in the heads of those soldiers, who are in various attitudes,
heavy with sleep, and as it were dead, there may be seen such excellence, that one cannot believe
that it is possible to do better.

Then, continuing the stories of the Passion in another of the corners, he painted Christ going
with the Cross upon His shoulder to Mount Calvary, and behind Him the people of Jerusalem,
accompanying Him; and in front are the two Thieves, naked, between the ministers of justice,
who are partly on foot and partly on horseback, with the ladders, the inscription for the Cross,
hammers, nails, cords, and other suchlike instruments. And in the highest part, behind a little
hill, is the Madonna with the Maries, who, weeping, are awaiting Christ, who has fallen to
the ground in the middle of the scene, and has about Him many Jews that are smiting Him, while
Veronica is offering to Him the Sudarium, accompanied by some women both young and old, all
weeping at the outrage that they see being done to the Saviour. This scene, either because
he was warned by his friends, or perhaps because Jacopo himself at last became aware, although
tardily, of the harm that had been done to his own sweet manner by the study of the German,
proved to be much better than the others executed in the same place, for the reason that certain
naked Jews and some heads of old men are so well painted in fresco, that it would not be possible
to do more, although the same German manner may be seen constantly maintained in the work as
a whole.

After these he was to have gone on with the Crucifixion and the Deposition from the Cross in
the other corners; but, putting them aside for a time, with the intention of executing them
last, he painted in their stead Christ taken down from the Cross, keeping to the same manner,
but with great harmony of colouring. In this scene, besides that the Magdalene, who is kissing
the feet of Christ, is most beautiful, there are two old men, representing Joseph of Arimathæa
and Nicodemus, who, although they are in the German manner, have the most beautiful expressions
and heads of old men, with beards feathery and coloured with marvellous softness, that there
are to be seen.

Now Jacopo, besides being generally slow over his works, was pleased with the solitude of the
Certosa, and he therefore spent several years on these labours; and, after the plague had finished
and he had returned to Florence, he did not for that reason cease to frequent that place constantly,
and was always going and coming between the Certosa and the city. Proceeding thus, he satisfied
those fathers in many things, and, among others, he painted in their church, over one of the
doors that lead into the chapels, in a figure from the waist upwards, the portrait of a lay-brother
of that monastery, who was alive at that time and one hundred and twenty years old, executing
it so well and with such finish, such vivacity, and such animation, that through it alone Pontormo
deserves to be excused for the strange and fantastic new manner with which he was saddled by
that solitude and by living far from the commerce of men.

Besides this, he painted for the Prior of that place a picture of the Nativity of Christ, representing
Joseph as giving light to Jesus Christ in the darkness of the night with a lantern, and this
in pursuit of the same notions and caprices which the German engravings put into his head.
Now let no one believe that Jacopo is to blame because he imitated Albrecht Dürer in his inventions,
for the reason that this is no error, and many painters have done it and are continually doing
it; but only because he adopted the unmixed German manner in everything, in the draperies,
in the expressions of the heads, and in the attitudes, which he should have avoided, availing
himself only of the inventions, since he had the modern manner in all the fullness of its beauty
and grace. For the Stranger's Apartment of the same monks he painted a large picture on canvas
and in oil-colours, without straining himself at all or forcing his natural powers, of Christ
at table with Cleophas and Luke, figures of the size of life; and since in this work he followed
the bent of his own genius, it proved to be truly marvellous, particularly because he portrayed
among those who are serving at that table some lay-brothers of the convent, whom I myself have
known, in such a manner that they could not be either more lifelike or more animated than they are.

Bronzino, meanwhile (that is, while his master was executing the works described above in the
Certosa), pursuing with great spirit the studies of painting, and encouraged all the time by
Pontormo, who was very loving with his disciples, executed on the inner side over an arch above
the door of the cloister that leads into the church, without having ever seen the process of
painting in oil-colours on the wall, a nude S. Laurence on the gridiron, which was so beautiful
that there began to be seen some indication of that excellence to which he has since attained,
as will be related in the proper place; which circumstance gave infinite satisfaction to Jacopo,
who already saw whither that genius would arrive.

Not long afterwards there returned from Rome Lodovico di Gino Capponi, who had bought that
chapel in S. Felicita, on the right hand of the entrance into the church, which the Barbadori
had formerly caused to be built by Filippo di Ser Brunellesco; and he resolved to have all
the vaulting painted, and then to have an altar-piece executed for it, with a rich ornament.
Having therefore consulted in the matter with M. Niccolò Vespucci, knight of Rhodes, who was
much his friend, the knight, who was also much the friend of Jacopo, and knew, into the bargain,
the talent and worth of that able man, did and said so much that Lodovico allotted that work
to Pontormo. And so, having erected an enclosure, which kept that chapel closed for three years,
he set his hand to the work. On the vaulted ceiling he painted a God the Father, who has about
Him four very beautiful Patriarchs; and in the four medallions at the angles he depicted the
four Evangelists, or rather, he executed three of them with his own hand, and Bronzino one
all by himself. And with this occasion I must mention that Pontormo used scarcely ever to allow
himself to be helped by his assistants, or to suffer them to lay a hand on that which he intended
to execute with his own hand; and when he did wish to avail himself of one of them, chiefly
in order that they might learn, he allowed them to do the whole work by themselves, as he allowed
Bronzino to do here.

In the works that Jacopo executed in the said chapel up to this point, it seemed almost as
if he had returned to his first manner; but he did not follow the same method in painting the
altar-piece, for, thinking always of new things, he executed it without shadows, and with a
colouring so bright and so uniform, that one can scarcely distinguish the lights from the middle
tints, and the middle tints from the darks. In this altar-piece is a Dead Christ taken down
from the Cross and being carried to the Sepulchre. There is the Madonna who is swooning, and
the Maries, all executed in a fashion so different from his first work, that it is clearly
evident that his brain was always busy investigating new conceptions and fantastic methods
of painting, not being content with, and not fixing on, any single method. In a word, the composition
of this altar-piece is altogether different from the figures on the vaulting, and likewise
the colouring; and the four Evangelists, which are in the medallions on the spandrels of the
vaulting, are much better and in a different manner.

On the wall where the window is are two figures in fresco, on one side the Virgin, and on the
other the Angel, who is bringing her the Annunciation, but so distorted, both the one and the
other, that it is evident that, as I have said, that bizarre and fantastic brain was never
content with anything. And in order to be able to do as he pleased in this, and to avoid having
his attention distracted by anyone, all the time that he was executing this work he would never
allow even the owner of the chapel himself to see it, insomuch that, having painted it after
his own fancy, without any of his friends having been able to give him a single hint, when
it was finally uncovered and seen, it amazed all Florence. For the same Lodovico he executed
a picture of Our Lady in that same manner for his chamber, and in the head of a S. Mary Magdalene
he made the portrait of a daughter of Lodovico, who was a very beautiful young woman.

Near the Monastery of Boldrone, on the road that goes from there to Castello, and at the corner
of another that climbs the hill and goes to Cercina (that is, at a distance of two miles from
Florence), he painted in fresco in a shrine Christ Crucified, Our Lady weeping, S. John the
Evangelist, S. Augustine, and S. Giuliano; all which figures, his caprice not being yet satisfied,
and the German manner still pleasing him, are not very different from those that he executed
at the Certosa. He did the same, also, in an altar-piece that he painted for the Nuns of S.
Anna, at the Porta a S. Friano, in which altar-piece is Our Lady with the Child in her arms,
and S. Anne behind her, with S. Peter, S. Benedict, and other Saints, and in the predella is
a small scene with little figures, which represent the Signoria of Florence as it used to go
in procession with trumpeters, pipers, mace-bearers, messengers, and ushers, with the rest
of the household; and this he did because the commission for that altar-piece was given to
him by the Captain and the household of the Palace.

The while that Jacopo was executing this work, Alessandro and Ippolito de' Medici, who were
both very young, having been sent to Florence by Pope Clement VII under the care of the Legate,
Silvio Passerini, Bishop of Cortona, the Magnificent Ottaviano, to whom the Pope had straitly
recommended them, had the portraits of both of them taken by Pontormo, who served him very
well, and made them very good likenesses, although he did not much depart from the manner that
he had learned from the Germans. In the portrait of Ippolito he also painted a favourite dog
of that lord, called Rodon, and made it so characteristic and so natural, that it might be
alive. He took the portrait, likewise, of Bishop Ardinghelli, who afterwards became a Cardinal;
and for Filippo del Migliore, who was much his friend, he painted in fresco in his house on
the Via Larga, in a niche opposite to the principal door, a woman representing Pomona, from
which it appeared that he was beginning to seek to abandon in part his German manner.

Now Giovan Battista della Palla perceived that by reason of many works the name of Jacopo was
becoming every day more celebrated; and, since he had not succeeded in sending to King Francis
the pictures executed by that same master and by others for Borgherini, he resolved, knowing
that the King had a desire for them, at all costs to send him something by the hand of Pontormo.
Whereupon he so went to work that he persuaded Jacopo to execute a most beautiful picture of
the Raising of Lazarus, which proved to be one of the best works that he ever painted and that
was ever sent by Giovan Battista, among the vast number that he sent, to King Francis of France.
For, besides that the heads were most beautiful, the figure of Lazarus, whose spirit as he
returned to life was re-entering his dead flesh, could not have been more marvellous, for about
the eyes he still had the hue of corruption, and the flesh cold and dead at the extremities
of the hands and feet, where the spirit had not yet come.

In a picture of one braccio and a half he painted for the Sisters of the Hospital of the Innocenti,
with an infinite number of little figures, the story of the eleven thousand Martyrs who were
condemned to death by Diocletian and all crucified in a wood. In this Jacopo represented a
battle of horsemen and nude figures, very beautiful, and some most lovely little Angels flying
through the air, who are shooting arrows at the ministers of the crucifixion; and in like manner,
about the Emperor, who is pronouncing the condemnation, are some most beautiful nude figures
who are going to their death. This picture, which in every part is worthy to be praised, is
now held in great price by Don Vincenzio Borghini, the Director of that Hospital, who once
was much the friend of Jacopo. Another picture similar to that described above he painted for
Carlo Neroni, but only with the Battle of the Martyrs and the Angel baptizing them; and then
the portrait of Carlo himself. He also executed a portrait, at the time of the siege of Florence,
of Francesco Guardi in the habit of a soldier, which was a very beautiful work; and on the
cover of this picture Bronzino afterwards painted Pygmalion praying to Venus that his statue,
receiving breath, might spring to life and become--as, according to the fables of the poets,
it did--flesh and blood. At this time, after much labour, there came to Jacopo the fulfilment
of a desire that he had long had, in that, having always felt a wish to have a house that might
be his own, so that he should no longer live in the house of another, but might occupy his
own and live as pleased himself, finally he bought one in the Via della Colonna, opposite to
the Nuns of S. Maria degli Angeli.

The siege finished, Pope Clement commanded Messer Ottaviano de' Medici that he should cause
the hall of Poggio a Caiano to be finished. Whereupon, Franciabigio and Andrea del Sarto being
dead, the whole charge of this was given to Pontormo, who, after having the staging and the
screens made, began to execute the cartoons; but, for the reason that he went off into fantasies
and cogitations, beyond that he never set a hand to the work. This, perchance, would not have
happened if Bronzino had been in those parts, who was then working at the Imperiale, a place
belonging to the Duke of Urbino, near Pesaro; which Bronzino, although he was sent for every
day by Jacopo, nevertheless was not able to depart at his own pleasure, for the reason that,
after he had executed a very beautiful naked Cupid on the spandrel of a vault in the Imperiale,
and the cartoons for the others, Prince Guidobaldo, having recognized the young man's genius,
ordained that his own portrait should be taken by him, and, seeing that he wished to be portrayed
in some armour that he was expecting from Lombardy, Bronzino was forced to stay with that Prince
longer than he could have wished. During that time he painted the case of a harpsichord, which
much pleased the Prince, and finally Bronzino executed his portrait, which was very beautiful,
and the Prince was well satisfied with it.

Jacopo, then, wrote so many times, and employed so many means, that in the end he brought Bronzino
back; but for all that the man could never be induced to do any other part of this work than
the cartoons, although he was urged to it by the Magnificent Ottaviano and by Duke Alessandro.
In one of these cartoons, which are now for the most part in the house of Lodovico Capponi,
is a Hercules who is crushing Antæus, in another a Venus and Adonis, and in yet another drawing
a scene of nude figures playing football.

In the meantime Signor Alfonso Davalos, Marchese del Vasto, having obtained from Michelagnolo
Buonarroti by means of Fra Niccolò della Magna a cartoon of Christ appearing to the Magdalene
in the garden, moved heaven and earth to have it executed for him in painting by Pontormo,
Buonarroti having told him that no one could serve him better than that master. Jacopo then
executed that work to perfection, and it was accounted a rare painting by reason both of the
grandeur of Michelagnolo's design and of Jacopo's colouring. Wherefore Signor Alessandro Vitelli,
who was at that time Captain of the garrison of soldiers in Florence, having seen it, had a
picture painted for himself from the same cartoon by Jacopo, which he sent to Città di Castello
and caused to be placed in his house. It thus became evident in what estimation Michelagnolo
held Pontormo, and with what diligence Pontormo carried to completion and executed excellently
well the designs and cartoons of Michelagnolo, and Bartolommeo Bettini so went to work that
Buonarroti, who was much his friend, made for him a cartoon of a nude Venus with a Cupid who
is kissing her, in order that he might have it executed in painting by Pontormo and place it
in the centre of a chamber of his own, in the lunettes of which he had begun to have painted
by Bronzino figures of Dante, Petrarca, and Boccaccio, with the intention of having there all
the other poets who have sung of love in Tuscan prose and verse. Jacopo, then, having received
this cartoon, executed it to perfection at his leisure, as will be related, in the manner that
all the world knows without my saying another word in praise of it. These designs of Michelagnolo's
were the reason that Pontormo, considering the manner of that most noble craftsman, took heart
of grace, and resolved that by hook or by crook he would imitate and follow it to the best
of his ability. And then it was that Jacopo recognized how ill he had done to allow the work
of Poggio a Caiano to slip through his hands, although he put the blame in great measure on
a long and very troublesome illness that he had suffered, and finally on the death of Pope
Clement, which brought that undertaking completely to an end.

Jacopo having executed after the works described above a picture with the portrait from life
of Amerigo Antinori, a young man much beloved in Florence at that time, and that portrait being
much extolled by everyone, Duke Alessandro had him informed that he wished to have his portrait
taken by him in a large picture. And Jacopo, for the sake of convenience, executed his portrait
for the time being in a little picture of the size of a sheet of half-folio, and with such
diligence and care, that the works of the miniaturists do not in any way come up to it; for
the reason that, besides its being a very good likeness, there is in that head all that could
be desired in the rarest of paintings. From that little picture, which is now in the guardaroba
of Duke Cosimo, Jacopo afterwards made a portrait of the same Duke in a large picture, with
a style in the hand, drawing the head of a woman; which larger portrait Duke Alessandro afterwards
presented to Signora Taddea Malespina, the sister of the Marchesa di Massa. Desiring at all
costs to reward liberally the genius of Jacopo for these works, the Duke sent him a message
by Niccolò da Montaguto, his servant, that he should ask whatever he wished, and it would be
granted to him. But such was the poor spirit or the excessive respect and modesty of the man,
I know not which to call it, that he asked for nothing save as much money as would suffice
him to redeem a cloak that he had pledged; which having heard, the Duke, not without laughing
at the character of the man, commanded that fifty gold crowns should be given and a salary
offered to him; and even then Niccolò had much ado to make him accept it.

Meanwhile Jacopo had finished painting the Venus from the cartoon belonging to Bettini, which
proved to be a marvellous thing, but it was not given to Bettini at the price for which Jacopo
had promised it to him, for certain tuft-hunters, in order to do Bettini an injury, took it
almost by force from the hands of Jacopo and gave it to Duke Alessandro, restoring the cartoon
to Bettini. Which having heard, Michelagnolo felt much displeasure for love of the friend for
whom he had drawn the cartoon, and he bore a grudge against Jacopo, who, although he received
fifty crowns for it from the Duke, nevertheless cannot be said to have defrauded Bettini, seeing
that he gave up the Venus at the command of him who was his lord. But of all this some say
that Bettini himself was in great measure the cause, from his asking too much.

The occasion having thus presented itself to Pontormo, by means of these moneys, to set his
hand to the fitting up of his house, he made a beginning with his building, but did nothing
of much importance. Indeed, although some persons declare that he had it in mind to spend largely,
according to his position, and to make a commodious dwelling and one that might have some design,
it is nevertheless evident that what he did, whether this came from his not having the means
to spend or from some other reason, has rather the appearance of a building erected by an eccentric
and solitary creature than of a well-ordered habitation, for the reason that to the room where
he used to sleep and at times to work, he had to climb by a wooden ladder, which, after he
had gone in, he would draw up with a pulley, to the end that no one might go up to him without
his wish or knowledge. But that which most displeased other men in him was that he would not
work save when and for whom he pleased, and after his own fancy; wherefore on many occasions,
being sought out by noblemen who desired to have some of his work, and once in particular by
the Magnificent Ottaviano de' Medici, he would not serve them; and then he would set himself
to do anything in the world for some low and common fellow, at a miserable price. Thus the
mason Rossino, a person of no small ingenuity considering his calling, by playing the simpleton,
received from him in payment for having paved certain rooms with bricks, and for having done
other mason's work, a most beautiful picture of Our Lady, in executing which Jacopo toiled
and laboured as much as the mason did in his building. And so well did the good Rossino contrive
to manage his business, that, in addition to the above-named picture, he got from the hands
of Jacopo a most beautiful portrait of Cardinal Giulio de' Medici, copied from one by the hand
of Raffaello, and, into the bargain, a very beautiful little picture of a Christ Crucified,
which, although the above-mentioned Magnificent Ottaviano bought it from the mason Rossino
as a work by the hand of Jacopo, nevertheless is known for certain to be by the hand of Bronzino,
who executed it all by himself while he was working with Jacopo at the Certosa, although it
afterwards remained, I know not why, in the possession of Pontormo. All these three pictures,
won by the industry of the mason from the hands of Jacopo, are now in the house of M. Alessandro
de' Medici, the son of the above-named Ottaviano.

Now, although this procedure of Jacopo's and his living solitary and after his own fashion
were not much commended, that does not mean that if anyone wished to excuse him he would not
be able, for the reason that for those works that he did we should acknowledge our obligation
to him, and for those that he did not choose to do we should not blame or censure him. No craftsman
is obliged to work save when and for whom he pleases; and, if he suffered thereby, the loss
was his. As for solitude, I have always heard say that it is the greatest friend of study;
and, even if it were not so, I do not believe that much blame is due to him who lives in his
own fashion without offence to God or to his neighbour, dwelling and employing his time as
best suits his nature.

But to return, leaving these matters on one side, to the works of Jacopo: Duke Alessandro had
caused to be restored in some parts the Villa of Careggi, formerly built by the elder Cosimo
de' Medici, at a distance of two miles from Florence, and had carried out the ornamentation
of the fountain and the labyrinth, which wound through the centre of an open court, into which
there opened two loggie, and his Excellency ordained that those loggie should be painted by
Jacopo, but that company should be given him, to the end that he might finish them the quicker,
and that conversation with others, keeping him cheerful, might be a means of making him work
without straying so much into vagaries and distilling away his brains. Nay, the Duke himself
sent for Jacopo and besought him that he should strive to deliver that work completely finished
as soon as possible. Jacopo, therefore, having summoned Bronzino, caused him to paint a figure
on each of five spandrels of the vaulting, these being Fortune, Justice, Victory, Peace, and
Fame; and on the other spandrel, for they are in all six, Jacopo with his own hand painted
a Love. Then, having made the design for some little boys that were going in the oval space
of the vaulting, with various animals in their hands, and all foreshortened to be seen from
below, he caused them all, with the exception of one, to be executed in colour by Bronzino,
who acquitted himself very well. And since, while Jacopo and Bronzino were painting these figures,
the ornaments all around were executed by Jacone, Pier Francesco di Jacopo, and others, the
whole of that work was finished in a short time, to the great satisfaction of the Lord Duke.
His Excellency wished to have the other loggia painted, but he was not in time, for the reason
that the above-named work having been finished on the 13th of December in the year 1536, on
the 6th of the January following that most illustrious lord was assassinated by his kinsman
Lorenzino; and so this work and others remained without their completion.

The Lord Duke Cosimo having then been elected, and the affair of Montemurlo having passed off
happily, a beginning was made with the works of Castello, according as has been related in
the Life of Tribolo, and his most illustrious Excellency, in order to gratify Signora Donna
Maria, his mother, ordained that Jacopo should paint the first loggia, which one finds on the
left hand in entering the Palace of Castello. Whereupon, setting to work, Jacopo first designed
all the ornaments that were to be painted there, and had them executed for the most part by
Bronzino and the masters who had executed those of Careggi. Then, shutting himself up alone,
he proceeded with that work after his own fancy and wholly at his leisure, studying with all
diligence, to the end that it might be much better than that of Careggi, which he had not executed
entirely with his own hand. This he was able to do very conveniently, having eight crowns a
month for it from his Excellency, whom he portrayed, young as he was, in the beginning of that
work, and likewise Signora Donna Maria, his mother. Finally, after that loggia had been closed
for five years, no one being able to have even a glance at what Jacopo had done, one day the
above-named lady became enraged against him, and commanded that the staging and the screen
should be thrown to the ground. But Jacopo, having begged for grace and having obtained leave
to keep it covered for a few days more, first retouched it where it seemed to him to be necessary,
and then caused a cloth of his own contriving to be made, which should keep that loggia covered
when those lords were not there, to the end that the weather might not, as it had done at Careggi,
eat away those pictures, which were executed in oils on the dry plaster; and at last he uncovered
it, amid the lively expectation of everyone, all thinking that in that work Jacopo must have
surpassed himself and done something altogether stupendous. But the effect did not correspond
completely to the expectations, for the reason that, although many parts of the work are good,
the general proportion of the figures appears very poor in form, and certain distorted attitudes
that are there seem to be wanting in measure and very strange. But Jacopo excused himself by
saying that he had never worked very willingly in that place, for the reason that, being without
the city, it seemed much exposed to the fury of the soldiery and to other suchlike dangers;
but there was no need for him to be afraid of that, seeing that time and the weather, from
the work having been executed in the manner already described, are eating it away little by little.

In the centre of the vaulting, then, he painted a Saturn with the Sign of Capricorn, and a
Hermaphrodite Mars in the Sign of the Lion and of the Virgin, and some little Angels who are
flying through the air, like those of Careggi. He then painted in certain gigantic women, almost
entirely nude, Philosophy, Astrology, Geometry, Music, Arithmetic, and a Ceres; with some little
scenes in medallions, executed with various tints of colour and appropriate to the figures.
Although this work, so fatiguing and so laboured, did not give much satisfaction, or, if a
certain measure of satisfaction, much less than was expected, yet his Excellency declared that
it pleased him, and availed himself of Jacopo on every occasion, chiefly because that painter
was held in great veneration by the people on account of the very good and beautiful works
that he had executed in the past.

The Lord Duke then brought to Florence the Flemings, Maestro Giovanni Rosso and Maestro Niccolò,
excellent masters in arras-tapestries, to the end that the art might be learned and practised
by the Florentines, and he ordained that tapestries in silk and gold should be executed for
the Council Hall of the Two Hundred at a cost of 60,000 crowns, and that Jacopo and Bronzino
should make the cartoons with the stories of Joseph. But, when Jacopo had made two of them,
in one of which is the scene when the death of Joseph is announced to Jacob and the bloody
garments are shown to him, and in the other the Flight of Joseph from the wife of Potiphar,
leaving his garment behind, they did not please either the Duke or those masters who had to
put them into execution, for they appeared to them to be strange things and not likely to be
successful when executed in woven tapestries. And so Jacopo did not go on to make any more
cartoons, but returned to his usual labours and painted a picture of Our Lady, which was presented
by the Duke to Signor Don ..., who took it to Spain.

Now his Excellency, following in the footsteps of his ancestors, has always sought to embellish
and adorn his city; and he resolved, the necessity having come to his notice, to cause to be
painted all the principal chapel of the magnificent Temple of S. Lorenzo, formerly built by
the great Cosimo de' Medici, the elder. Whereupon he gave the charge of this to Jacopo da Pontormo,
either of his own accord, or, as was said, at the instance of Messer Pier Francesco Ricci,
his major-domo; and Jacopo was very glad of that favour, for the reason that, although the
greatness of the work, he being well advanced in years, gave him food for thought and perhaps
dismayed him, on the other hand he reflected how, in a work of such magnitude, he had a fair
field to show his ability and worth. Some say that Jacopo, finding that the work had been allotted
to him notwithstanding that Francesco Salviati, a painter of great fame, was in Florence and
had brought to a happy conclusion the painting of that hall in the Palace which was once the
audience-chamber of the Signoria, must needs declare that he would show the world how to draw
and paint, and how to work in fresco, and, besides this, that the other painters were but ordinary
hacks, with other words equally insolent and overbearing. But I myself always knew Jacopo as
a modest person, who spoke of everyone honourably and in a manner proper to an orderly and
virtuous craftsman, such as he was, and I believe that these words were imputed to him falsely,
and that he never let slip from his mouth any such boastings, which are for the most part the
marks of vain men who presume too much upon their merits, in which manner of men there is no
place for virtue or good breeding. And, although I might have kept silent about these matters,
I have not chosen to do so, because to proceed as I have done appears to me the office of a
faithful and veracious historian; it is enough that, although these rumours went around, and
particularly among our craftsmen, nevertheless I have a firm belief that they were the words
of malicious persons, Jacopo having always been in the experience of everyone modest and well-behaved
in his every action.

Having then closed up that chapel with walls, screens of planks, and curtains, and having given
himself over to complete solitude, he kept it for a period of eleven years so well sealed up,
that excepting himself not a living soul entered it, neither friend nor any other. It is true,
indeed, that certain lads who were drawing in the sacristy of Michelagnolo, as young men will
do, climbed by its spiral staircase on to the roof of the church, and, removing some tiles
and the plank of one of the gilded rosettes that are there, saw everything. Of which having
heard, Jacopo took it very ill, but took no further notice beyond closing up everything with
greater care; although some say that he persecuted those young men sorely, and sought to make
them regret it.

Imagining, then, that in this work he would surpass all other painters, and perchance, so it
was said, even Michelagnolo, he painted in the upper part, in a number of scenes, the Creation
of Adam and Eve, the Eating of the Forbidden Fruit, their Expulsion from Paradise, the Tilling
of the Earth, the Sacrifice of Abel, the Death of Cain, the Blessing of the Seed of Noah, and
the same Noah designing the plan and the measurements of the Ark. Next, on one of the lower
walls, each of which is fifteen braccia in each direction, he painted the inundation of the
Deluge, in which is a mass of dead and drowned bodies, and Noah speaking with God. On the other
wall is painted the Universal Resurrection of the Dead, which has to take place on the last
and final day; with such variety and confusion, that the real resurrection will perhaps not
be more confused, or more full of movement, in a manner of speaking, than Pontormo painted
it. Opposite to the altar and between the windows--that is, on the central wall--there is on
either side a row of nude figures, who, clinging to each other's bodies with hands and legs,
form a ladder wherewith to ascend to Paradise, rising from the earth, where there are many
dead in company with them, and at the end, on either side, are two dead bodies clothed with
the exception of the legs and also the arms, with which they are holding two lighted torches.
At the top, in the centre of the wall, above the windows, he painted in the middle Christ on
high in His Majesty, who, surrounded by many Angels all nude, is raising those dead in order
to judge them.

But I have never been able to understand the significance of this scene, although I know that
Jacopo had wit enough for himself, and also associated with learned and lettered persons; I
mean, what he could have intended to signify in that part where there is Christ on high, raising
the dead, and below His feet is God the Father, who is creating Adam and Eve. Besides this,
in one of the corners, where are the four Evangelists, nude, with books in their hands, it
does not seem to me that in a single place did he give a thought to any order of composition,
or measurement, or time, or variety in the heads, or diversity in the flesh-colours, or, in
a word, to any rule, proportion, or law of perspective; for the whole work is full of nude
figures with an order, design, invention, composition, colouring, and painting contrived after
his own fashion, and with such melancholy and so little satisfaction for him who beholds the
work, that I am determined, since I myself do not understand it, although I am a painter, to
leave all who may see it to form their own judgment, for the reason that I believe that I would
drive myself mad with it and would bury myself alive, even as it appears to me that Jacopo
in the period of eleven years that he spent upon it sought to bury himself and all who might
see the painting, among all those extraordinary figures. And although there may be seen in
this work some bit of a torso with the back turned or facing to the front and some attachments
of flanks, executed with marvellous care and great labour by Jacopo, who made finished models
of clay in the round for almost all the figures, nevertheless the work as a whole is foreign
to his manner, and, as it appears to almost every man, without proportion, the torsi for the
most part being large and the legs and arms small, to say nothing of the heads, in which there
is not a trace to be seen of that singular excellence and grace that he used to give to them,
so greatly to the satisfaction of those who examine his other pictures. Wherefore it appears
that in this work he paid no attention to anything save certain parts, and of the other more
important parts he took no account whatever. In a word, whereas he had thought in this work
to surpass all the paintings in the world of art, he failed by a great measure to equal his
own works that he had executed in the past; whence it is evident that he who seeks to strive
beyond his strength and, as it were, to force nature, ruins the good qualities with which he
may have been liberally endowed by her. But what can we or ought we to do save have compassion
upon him, seeing that the men of our arts are as much liable to error as others? And the good
Homer, so it is said, even he sometimes nods; nor shall it ever be said that there is a single
work of Jacopo's, however he may have striven to force his nature, in which there is not something
good and worthy of praise.

He died shortly before finishing the work, and some therefore declare that he died of grief,
ending his life very much dissatisfied with himself; but the truth is that, being old and much
exhausted by making portraits and models in clay and labouring so much in fresco, he sank into
a dropsy, which finally killed him at the age of sixty-five. After his death there were found
in his house many designs, cartoons, and models in clay, all very beautiful, and a picture
of Our Lady executed by him excellently well and in a lovely manner, to all appearance many
years before, which was sold by his heirs to Piero Salviati. Jacopo was buried in the first
cloister of the Church of the Servite Friars, beneath the scene of the Visitation that he had
formerly painted there; and he was followed to the grave by an honourable company of the painters,
sculptors, and architects.

Jacopo was a frugal and sober man, and in his dress and manner of life he was rather miserly
than moderate; and he lived almost always by himself, without desiring that anyone should serve
him or cook for him. In his last years, indeed, he kept in his house, as it were to bring him
up, Battista Naldini, a young man of fine spirit, who took such care of Jacopo's life as Jacopo
would allow him to take; and under his master's discipline he made no little proficiency in
design, and became such, indeed, that a very happy result is looked for from him. Among Pontormo's
friends, particularly in this last period of his life, were Pier Francesco Vernacci and Don
Vincenzio Borghini, with whom he took his recreation, sometimes eating with them, but rarely.
But above all others, and always supremely beloved by him, was Bronzino, who loved him as dearly,
being grateful and thankful for the benefits that he had received from him.

Pontormo had very beautiful manners, and he was so afraid of death, that he would not even
hear it spoken of, and avoided having to meet dead bodies. He never went to festivals or to
any other places where people gathered together, so as not to be caught in the press; and he
was solitary beyond all belief. At times, going out to work, he set himself to think so profoundly
on what he was to do, that he went away without having done any other thing all day but stand
thinking. And that this happened to him times without number in the work of S. Lorenzo may
readily be believed, for the reason that when he was determined, like an able and well-practised
craftsman, he had no difficulty in doing what he desired and had resolved to put into execution.

SIMONE MOSCA

LIFE OF SIMONE MOSCA

SCULPTOR AND ARCHITECT

From the times of the ancient Greek and Roman sculptors to our own, no modern carver has equalled
the beautiful and difficult works that they executed in their bases, capitals, friezes, cornices,
festoons, trophies, masks, candelabra, birds, grotesques, or other carved cornice-work, save
only Simone Mosca of Settignano, who in our own days has worked in such a manner in those kinds
of labour, that he has made it evident by his genius and art that all the diligence and study
of the modern carvers who had come before him had not enabled them up to that time to imitate
the best work of those ancients or to adopt the good method in their carvings, for the reason
that their works incline to dryness, and the turn of their foliage to spikiness and crudeness.
He, on the other hand, has executed foliage with great boldness, rich and abundant in new curves,
the leaves being carved in various manners with beautiful indentations and with the most lovely
flowers, seeds and creepers that there are to be seen, not to speak of the birds that he has
contrived to carve so gracefully in various forms among his foliage and festoons, insomuch
that it may be affirmed that Simone alone--be it said without offence to the others--has been
able to remove from the marble that hardness which craftsmen are wont very often to leave in
their sculptures, and has brought his works by his handling of the chisel to such a point that
they have the appearance of things real to the touch, and the same may be said of the cornices
and other suchlike labours, executed by him with most beautiful grace and judgment.

This Simone, having given his attention to design in his childhood with much profit, and having
then become well-practised in carving, was taken by Maestro Antonio da San Gallo, who recognized
his genius and noble spirit, to Rome, where he caused him to execute, as his first works, some
capitals and bases and several friezes of foliage for the Church of S. Giovanni de' Fiorentini,
and some works for the Palace of Alessandro, the first Cardinal Farnese. Simone meanwhile devoting
himself, particularly on feast-days, and whenever he could snatch the time, to drawing the
antiquities of that city, no long time passed before he was drawing and tracing ground-plans
with more grace and neatness than did Antonio himself, insomuch that, having applied himself
heart and soul to the study of designing foliage in the ancient manner, of giving a bold turn
to the leaves, and of perforating his works in such a way as to make them perfect, taking the
best from the best examples, one thing from one and one from another, in a few years he formed
a manner of composition so beautiful and so catholic, that afterwards he did everything well,
whether in company or by himself. This may be seen in some coats of arms that were to be placed
in the above-named Church of S. Giovanni in the Strada Giulia; in one of which coats of arms,
making a great lily, the ancient emblem of the Commune of Florence, he carved upon it some
curves of foliage with creepers and seeds executed so well that they made everyone gasp with
wonder. Nor had any long time passed when Antonio da San Gallo--who was directing for Messer
Agnolo Cesis the execution of the marble ornaments of a chapel and tomb for himself and his
family, which were afterwards erected in the year 1550 in the Church of S. Maria della Pace--caused
part of certain pilasters and socles covered with friezes, which were going into that work,
to be wrought by Simone, who executed them so well and with such beauty, that they make themselves
known among the others, without my saying which they are, by their grace and perfection; nor
is it possible to see any altars for the offering of sacrifices after the ancient use more
beautiful and fanciful than those that he made on the base of that work. Afterwards the same
San Gallo, who was superintending the execution of the mouth of the well in the cloister of
S. Pietro in Vincula, caused Mosca to make the borders with some large masks of great beauty.

Not long afterwards he returned one summer to Florence, having a good name among craftsmen,
and Baccio Bandinelli, who was making the Orpheus of marble that was placed in the court of
the Medici Palace, after having the base for that work carried out by Benedetto da Rovezzano,
caused Simone to execute the festoons and other carvings therein, which are very beautiful,
although one festoon is unfinished and only worked over with the gradine. Having then done
many works in grey sandstone, of which there is no need to make record, he was planning to
return to Rome, when in the meantime the sack took place, and he did not go after all. But,
having taken a wife, he was living in Florence with little to do: wherefore, being obliged
to support his family, and having no income, he was occupying himself with any work that he
could obtain. Now in those days there arrived in Florence one Pietro di Subisso, a master-mason
of Arezzo, who always had under him a good number of workmen, for the reason that all the building
in Arezzo passed through his hands; and he took Simone, with many others, to Arezzo. There
he set Simone to making a chimney-piece of grey sandstone and a water-basin of no great cost,
for a hall in the house of the heirs of Pellegrino da Fossombrone, a citizen of Arezzo; which
house had been formerly erected by M. Piero Geri, an excellent astrologer, after the design
of Andrea Sansovino, and had been sold by his nephews. Setting to work, therefore, and beginning
with the chimney-piece, Simone placed it upon two pilasters, making two niches in the thickness
of the wall, in the direction of the fire, and laying upon those pilasters architrave, frieze,
and great cornice, and over all a pediment with festoons and with the arms of that family.
And thus, proceeding with it, he executed it with carvings of such a kind and so well varied,
and with such subtle craftsmanship, that, although that work was of grey sandstone, under his
hands it became more beautiful than if it had been of marble, and more astounding; which, indeed,
came to pass the more readily because that stone is not as hard as marble and, if anything,
rather sandy. Putting extraordinary diligence, therefore, into the work, he executed on the
pilasters trophies in half-relief and low-relief, than which nothing more bizarre or more beautiful
could be done, with helmets, buskins, shields, quivers, and various other arms; and he likewise
made there masks, sea monsters, and other graceful fantasies, all so well figured and cut out
that they have the appearance of silver. The frieze that is between the architrave and the
great cornice, he made with a most beautiful turn of foliage, all pierced through and full
of birds that are executed so well, that they seem to be flying through the air; and it is
a marvellous thing to see their little legs, no larger than life, and yet completely in the
round and detached from the stone in such a way as one cannot believe to be possible; and,
in truth, the work seems rather a miracle than a product of human art. Besides all this, he
made there in a festoon some leaves and fruits so well cut out, and wrought with such delicacy
and care, that in a certain sense they surpass the reality. Lastly, the work is finished off
by some great masks and candelabra, which are truly most beautiful. Although Simone need not
have given such care to a work of that kind, for which he was to be but poorly paid by those
patrons, who could not afford much, yet, drawn by the love that he bore to art and by the pleasure
that a man feels in working well, he chose to do so; but he did not do the same with the water-basin
for the same patrons, for he made it beautiful enough, but simple.

At the same time he assisted Pietro di Subisso, who did not know much, to make many designs
of buildings and plans of houses, doors, windows, and other things appertaining to that profession.
On the Canto degli Albergotti, below the school and university of the Commune, there is a window
of considerable beauty constructed after his design; and there are two of them in the house
of Ser Bernardino Serragli in the Pelliceria. On the corner of the Palazzo de' Priori there
is a large escutcheon of Pope Clement VII in grey sandstone, by the hand of the same master;
and under his direction, and partly by his hand, was executed for Bernardino di Cristofano
da Giuovi a chapel of grey sandstone in the Corinthian Order, which was erected in the Abbey
of S. Fiore, a passing handsome monastery of Black Friars in Arezzo. For this chapel the patron
wished to have the altar-piece painted by Andrea del Sarto, and then by Rosso, but in this
he never succeeded, seeing that, being hindered now by one thing and now by another, they were
not able to serve him. Finally Bernardino turned to Giorgio Vasari, but with him also he had
difficulties, and there was much trouble in finding a way of arranging the matter, for the
reason that, the chapel being dedicated to S. James and S. Christopher, he wished to have in
the picture Our Lady with the Child in her arms, and also the giant S. Christopher with another
little Christ on his shoulder; which composition, besides that it appeared monstrous, could
not be accommodated, nor was it possible to paint a giant of six braccia in an altar-piece
of four braccia. Giorgio, then, being desirous to serve Bernardino, made him a design in this
manner: he placed Our Lady upon some clouds, with a sun behind her back, and on the ground
he painted S. Christopher kneeling on one side of the picture, with one leg in the water, and
with the other in the act of moving in order to rise, while Our Lady is placing upon his shoulders
the Infant Christ with the globe of the world in His hands. In the rest of the altar-piece,
also, were to be S. James and the other Saints, accommodated in such a manner that they would
not have been in the way; and this design, pleasing Bernardino, would have been put into execution,
but Bernardino in the meantime died, and the chapel was left in that condition to his heirs,
who have not done anything more.

Now, while Simone was labouring at that chapel, there passed through Arezzo Antonio da San
Gallo, who was returning from the work of fortifying Parma and was going to Loreto to finish
the work of the Chapel of the Madonna, to which he had sent Tribolo, Raffaello da Montelupo,
the young Francesco da San Gallo, Girolamo da Ferrara, Simone Cioli, and other carvers, masons,
and stone-cutters, in order to finish that which Andrea Sansovino at his death had left incomplete;
and he contrived to take Simone to work there. He ordained that Simone should have charge not
only of the carvings, but also of the architecture and of the other ornaments of that work;
in which commissions Mosca acquitted himself very well, and, what is more, executed many things
perfectly with his own hands, particularly some little boys of marble in the round, which are
on the pediments of the doors; and although there are also some by the hand of Simone Cioli,
the best--and rare indeed they are--are all by Mosca. He made, likewise, all the festoons of
marble that are around all that work, with most beautiful artistry and carvings full of grace
and worthy of all praise; wherefore it is no marvel that these works are so esteemed and admired,
that many craftsmen from distant parts have set off in order to go to see them.

Antonio da San Gallo, then, recognizing how much Mosca was worth, made use of him in any undertaking
of importance, with the intention of remunerating him some day when the occasion might present
itself, and of giving him to know how much he loved him for his abilities. When, therefore,
after the death of Pope Clement, a new Supreme Pontiff had been elected in Paul III of the
Farnese family, who ordained that, the mouth of the well at Orvieto having remained unfinished,
Antonio should have charge of it, Antonio took Mosca thither, to the end that he might carry
that work to completion, which presented some difficulties, and particularly in the ornamentation
of the doors, for the reason that, the curve of the mouth being round, convex without and concave
within, those two circles conflicted with each other and caused a difficulty in accommodating
the squared doors with the ornaments of stone. But the virtue of that singular genius of Simone's
solved every difficulty, and executed the whole work with such grace and perfection, that no
one could see that there had ever been any difficulty. He finished off the mouth and border
of the well in grey sandstone, filled in with bricks, together with some very beautiful inscriptions
on white stone and other ornaments, making the doors correspond with one another. He also made
there in marble the arms of the above-named Pope Paul Farnese, or rather, where they had previously
been made of balls for Pope Clement, who had carried out that work, Mosca was forced--and he
succeeded excellently well--to make lilies out of the balls in relief, and thus to change the
arms of the Medici into those of the house of Farnese; notwithstanding, as I have said (for
so do things go in this world), that the author of that vast, regal, and magnificent work was
Pope Clement VII, of whom in this last and most imposing part no mention whatever was made.

While Simone was engaged in finishing this well, the Wardens of Works of S. Maria, the Duomo
of Orvieto, desiring to give completion to the chapel of marble that had been carried as far
as the socle under the direction of Michele San Michele of Verona, with some carvings, besought
Simone, whom they had come to know as a master of true excellence, that he should attend to
it. Whereupon they came to terms, and Simone, liking the society of the people of Orvieto,
brought his family thither, in order to live in greater comfort; and then he set himself to
work with a quiet and composed mind, being greatly honoured by everyone in that place. When,
therefore, as it were by way of sample, he had made a beginning with some pilasters and friezes,
the excellence and ability of Simone were recognized by those men, and there was assigned to
him a salary of two hundred crowns of gold a year, and with this, continuing to labour, he
carried that work well forward. Now in the centre, to fill up the ornaments, there was to go
a scene of marble in half-relief, representing the Adoration of the Magi; and there was summoned
at the suggestion of Simone his very dear friend Raffaello da Montelupo, the Florentine sculptor,
who, as has been related, executed half of that scene in a very beautiful manner. In the ornamentation
of this chapel, then, are certain socles, each two and a half braccia in breadth, which are
on either side of the altar, and upon these are pilasters five braccia high, two on either
side, between which is the story of the Magi; and on the pilasters next to the story, of which
two of the faces are seen, are carved some candelabra, with friezes of grotesques, masks, little
figures, and foliage, which are things divine. In the predella at the foot, which runs right
over the altar from pilaster to pilaster, is a little half-length Angel who is holding an inscription
with his hands, with festoons over all, between the capitals of the pilasters, where the architrave,
frieze and great cornice project to the extent of the depth of the pilasters. Above those in
the centre, in a space equal to their breadth, curves an arch that serves as an ornament to
the above-named story of the Magi, and in this, namely, in the lunette, are many Angels; and
above the arch is a cornice, which runs from one pilaster to another, that is, from those on
the outside, which form a frontispiece to the whole work. In this part is a God the Father
in half-relief; and at the sides, where the arch rises over the pilasters, are two Victories
in half-relief. All this work, then, is so well composed, and executed with such a wealth of
carvings, that one cannot have enough of examining the minute details of the perforations and
the excellence of all the things that are in the capitals, cornices, masks, festoons, and candelabra
in the round, which form the completion of a work truly worthy to be admired as something rare.

Simone Mosca thus dwelling in Orvieto, a son of his called Francesco, and as a bye-name Il
Moschino, a boy fifteen years of age, who had been produced by nature with chisels in his hand,
as it were, and with so beautiful a genius, that he did with supreme grace whatsoever thing
he desired to do, executed in this work under the discipline of his father, miraculously, so
to speak, the Angels that are holding the inscriptions between the pilasters, then the God
the Father in the pediment, as well as the Angels that are in the lunette of that work, above
the Adoration of the Magi executed by Raffaello da Montelupo, and finally the Victories at
the sides of the lunette; by which works he caused everyone to wonder and marvel. All this
was the reason that, when the chapel was finished, Simone was commissioned by the Wardens of
Works of the Duomo to make another similar to it, on the other side, to the end that the space
of the Chapel of the High-Altar might be suitably set off, on the understanding that the figures
should be varied without varying the architecture, and that in the centre there should be the
Visitation of Our Lady, which was allotted to the above-named Moschino. Then, having made an
agreement about every matter, the father and son set their hands to the work; and, while they
were engaged upon it, Mosca was very helpful and useful to that city, making for many citizens
architectural designs of houses and many other edifices. Among other things, he executed in
that city the ground-plan and façade of the house of Messer Raffaello Gualtieri, father of
the Bishop of Viterbo, and of Messer Felice, both noblemen and lords of great excellence and
reputation; and likewise the ground-plans of some houses for the honourable Counts della Cervara.
He did the same in many places near Orvieto, and made, in particular, the models of many structures
and buildings for Signor Pirro Colonna da Stripicciano.

The Pope then causing the fortress to be built in Perugia where there had stood the houses
of the Baglioni, Antonio da San Gallo, having sent for Mosca, gave him the charge of making
the ornaments; where there were executed after his designs all the doors, windows, chimney-pieces,
and other suchlike things, and in particular two large and very beautiful escutcheons of his
Holiness. In that work Simone formed a connection with M. Tiberio Crispo, who was Castellan
there; and he was sent by M. Tiberio to Bolsena, where, on the highest point of that stronghold,
overlooking the lake, he arranged a large and beautiful habitation, partly on the old structure
and partly founding anew, with a very handsome flight of steps and many ornaments of stone.
Nor did any long time pass before Messer Tiberio, having been made Castellan of the Castello
di S. Angelo, caused Mosca to go to Rome, where he made use of him in many matters in renovating
the apartments of that castle; and, among other things, he caused him to make over the arches
that rise over the new loggia, which faces towards the meadows, two escutcheons of the above-named
Pope in marble, which are so well wrought and perforated in the mitre, or rather, triple crown,
in the keys, and in certain festoons and little masks, that they are marvellous.

Having then returned to Orvieto in order to finish the work of the chapel, he laboured there
continuously all the time that Pope Paul was alive, executing it in such a manner that it proved
to be, as may be seen, no less excellent than the first, and perhaps even better. For Mosca,
as has been said, bore such love to art, and took such pleasure in working, that he could never
have enough of it, almost striving after the impossible, and that rather from a desire for
glory than from any wish to accumulate gold, for he was more pleased to work well at his profession
than to acquire property.

Finally, Julius III having been elected Pope in the year 1550, and all men thinking that work
would be begun in earnest on the building of S. Pietro, Mosca went off to Rome and sought to
obtain at a fixed price from the superintendents of that building the commission for some capitals
of marble, but more to accommodate Gian Domenico, his son-in-law, than for any other reason.
Now Giorgio Vasari, who always bore love to Mosca, found him in Rome, whither he also had been
summoned to the service of the Pope, and he thought that without fail he would have some work
to offer him, for the reason that the old Cardinal dal Monte, when he died, had left directions
with his heirs that a tomb of marble should be built for him in S. Pietro a Montorio, and the
above-named Pope Julius, his nephew and heir, had ordained that this should be done, and had
given the charge of the matter to Vasari; and Giorgio wished that in that tomb Mosca should
execute some extraordinary work in carving. But, after Giorgio had made some models for that
tomb, the Pope discussed the whole matter with Michelagnolo Buonarroti before he would make
up his mind; whereupon Michelagnolo told his Holiness that he should not involve himself with
carvings, saying that, although they enrich a work, they confuse the figures, whereas squared
work, when it is well done, is much more beautiful than carving and is a better accompaniment
for the figures, for the reason that figures do not brook other carvings about them: and even
so did his Holiness order the work to be done. Wherefore Vasari was not able to give Mosca
anything to do in that work, and he was dismissed; and the tomb was finished without any carvings,
which made it much better than it would have been with them.

Simone having then returned to Orvieto, arrangements were made to erect after his designs,
in the cross at the head of the church, two great tabernacles of marble, works truly graceful,
beautiful, and well-proportioned, for one of which Raffaello da Montelupo made in marble a
nude Christ with the Cross on His shoulder in a niche, and for the other Moschino made a S.
Sebastian, likewise nude. Work being then continued on the execution of the Apostles for the
church, Moschino made a S. Peter and a S. Paul of the same size, which were held to be creditable
statues. Meanwhile the work of the above-mentioned Chapel of the Visitation was not abandoned,
and it was carried so far forward during the lifetime of Mosca, that there was nothing left
to do save two birds, and even these would not have been wanting, had not M. Bastiano Gualtieri,
Bishop of Viterbo, as has been related, kept Simone occupied with an ornament of marble in
four pieces, which, when finished, he sent to France to the Cardinal of Lorraine, who held
it very dear, for it was beautiful to a marvel, all full of foliage and wrought with such diligence,
that it is believed to have been one of the best that Simone ever executed.

Not long after he had finished that work, in the year 1554, Simone died, at the age of fifty-eight,
to the no small loss of that church of Orvieto, in which he was buried with honour.

Francesco Moschino was then elected to his father's place by the Wardens of Works of that same
Duomo, but, thinking nothing of it, he left it to Raffaello da Montelupo, and went to Rome,
where he finished for M. Ruberto Strozzi two very graceful figures in marble, the Mars and
Venus, namely, which are in the court of his house in the Banchi. Afterwards he executed a
scene with little figures, almost in full-relief, in which is Diana bathing with her Nymphs,
who changes Actæon into a stag, and he is devoured by his own hounds; and then Francesco came
to Florence, and gave the work to the Lord Duke Cosimo, whom he much desired to serve. Whereupon
his Excellency, having accepted and much commended it, did not disappoint the desire of Moschino,
even as he has never disappointed anyone who has sought to work valiantly in any calling. For
he was attached to the Works of the Duomo at Pisa, and has laboured up to the present day with
great credit to himself in the Chapel of the Nunziata, formerly built by Stagio da Pietrasanta,
executing the Angel and the Madonna in figures of four braccia, together with the carvings
and every other thing; in the centre, Adam and Eve, who have the apple-tree between them; and
a large God the Father with certain little boys on the vaulting of that chapel, which is all
of marble, as are also the two statues, which have gained for Moschino no little fame and honour.
And since that chapel is little less than finished, his Excellency has given orders that the
chapel opposite to it should be taken in hand, which is called the Chapel of the Incoronata
and stands immediately at the entrance of the church, on the left hand. The same Moschino,
in connection with the nuptial festivities of her most serene Majesty Queen Joanna and the
most illustrious Prince of Florence, has acquitted himself very well in those works that were
given him to do. Which circumstance being observed by some friends of his father, they exhorted
him to remove the boy from that trade and to set him to painting; wherefore he placed Girolamo
with certain masters of little reputation in Urbino. But, having seen his beautiful manner,
and that he was like to make proficience, when the boy was fifteen years of age the father
apprenticed him to Maestro Luca Signorelli of Cortona, an excellent master in painting of that
time; with whom he stayed many years, following him to the March of Ancona, to Cortona, and
to many other places where he executed works, and in particular to Orvieto, in the Duomo of
which city, as has been related, Luca painted a chapel of Our Lady with an infinite number
of figures. At this our Girolamo worked continually, and he was always one of the best disciples
that Luca had.

Then, having parted from Signorelli, he placed himself with Pietro Perugino, a much esteemed
painter, with whom he stayed about three years, giving considerable attention to perspective,
which was so well grasped and understood by him, that it may be said that he became very excellent
therein, even as is evident from his works in painting and architecture. This was at the same
time that there was with Pietro the divine Raffaello da Urbino, who was much the friend of
Girolamo.

After leaving Pietro, he went off to live in Florence, where he studied for some considerable
time. Then, having gone to Siena, he stayed there for months and even years with Pandolfo Petrucci,
in whose house he painted many rooms, which, from their being very well designed and coloured
in a pleasing manner, were rightly admired and praised by all the people of Siena, and particularly
by the above-named Pandolfo, by whom he was always looked upon with great favour and cherished
most dearly. Pandolfo having died, he then returned to Urbino, where Guidobaldo, the second
Duke, retained him for a considerable time, causing him to paint horse's caparisons, such as
were used in those times, in company with Timoteo da Urbino, a painter of passing good name
and much experience, together with whom he painted a chapel of S. Martino in the Vescovado
for Messer Giovan Piero Arrivabene of Mantua, then Bishop of Urbino. In this, both the one
and the other of them gave proof of very beautiful genius, as the work itself demonstrates,
in which is a portrait of the above-named Bishop, which has all the appearance of life. Genga
was also particularly employed by the same Duke to execute scenery and settings for comedies,
which, since he had a very good understanding of perspective and was well-grounded in architecture,
he made marvellously beautiful.

He then departed from Urbino and went to Rome, where he executed in painting, in S. Caterina
da Siena on the Strada Giulia, a Resurrection of Christ, wherein he made himself known as a
rare and excellent master, having done it with good design and with figures foreshortened in
beautiful attitudes and well coloured, to which those who are of the profession and have seen
it are able to bear ample testimony. While living in Rome, he gave much attention to measuring
the antiquities there, as is proved by writings in the possession of his heirs.

At this time, Duke Guido having died, and having been succeeded by Francesco Maria, third Duke
of Urbino, Girolamo was recalled from Rome by Francesco Maria, and constrained to return to
Urbino at the time when the above-named Duke took to wife and brought into his dominions Leonora
Gonzaga, the daughter of the Marquis of Mantua; and he was employed by his Excellency in making
triumphal arches, festive preparations, and scenery for comedies, which were all so well arranged
and carried into execution by him, that Urbino could be likened to a Rome in triumph; from
which he gained very great fame and honour. Afterwards, in due course, the Duke was expelled
from his state for the last time, when he went to Mantua, and Girolamo followed him, even as
he had already done in his other periods of exile, always sharing one and the same fortune
with him; and he retired with his family to Cesena. There he painted for the high-altar of
S. Agostino an altar-piece in oils, at the top of which is an Annunciation, and below that
a God the Father, and still lower down a Madonna with the Child in her arms, between the four
Doctors of the Church--a work truly beautiful and worthy to be esteemed. He then painted in
fresco a chapel on the right hand in S. Francesco at Forlì, containing the Assumption of the
Madonna, with many Angels and other figures--Prophets, namely, and Apostles--around; in this,
also, it is evident how admirable was his genius, and the work was judged to be very beautiful.
He also painted there the story of the Holy Spirit, which he finished in the year 1512, for
Messer Francesco Lombardi, a physician; and other works throughout Romagna, for all which he
gained honour and rewards.

The Duke having then returned to his state, Girolamo also returned, and was retained by him
and employed as architect in restoring an old palace on the Monte dell'Imperiale, above Pesaro,
and adding to it another tower. That palace was adorned with scenes in painting from the actions
of the Duke, after the directions and designs of Girolamo, by Francesco da Forlì and Raffaello
dal Borgo, painters of good repute, and by Camillo Mantovano, a very rare master in painting
landscapes and verdure; and the young Florentine Bronzino also worked there, among others,
as has been related in the Life of Pontormo. Thither, likewise, were summoned the Dossi of
Ferrara, and a room was assigned to them to paint; but since, when they had finished that room,
it did not please the Duke, he had it thrown down and repainted by the masters mentioned above.
Girolamo then erected the tower there, one hundred and twenty feet in height, with thirteen
flights of wooden steps whereby to ascend to the top, so well fitted and concealed in the walls,
that they can be withdrawn with ease from story to story, which renders that tower very strong
and marvellous. A desire afterwards came to the Duke to fortify Pesaro, and he caused Pier
Francesco da Viterbo, a most excellent architect, to be sent for; and Girolamo always taking
part in the discussions that arose about the fortifications, his discourse and his opinions
were held to be good and full of judgment. Wherefore, if I may be allowed to say it, the design
of that fortress came rather from Girolamo than from any other, although that sort of architecture
was always little esteemed by him, appearing to him to be of small value and dignity.

The Duke, then, perceiving how rare a genius he had at his command, determined to build on
the above-named Monte dell'Imperiale, near the old palace, a new palace; and so he built that
to be seen there at the present day, which being a very beautiful and well-planned fabric,
and full of apartments, colonnades, courts, loggie, fountains, and most delightful gardens,
there is no Prince passes that way that does not go to see it. Wherefore it was right fitting
that Pope Paul III, on his way to Bologna with all his Court, should go to see it and find
it entirely to his satisfaction. From the design of this same master, the Duke caused the Palace
at Pesaro to be restored, and also the little park, making within it a house representing a
ruin, which is a very beautiful thing to see. Among other things, there is a staircase similar
to that of the Belvedere in Rome, which is very handsome. By means of him the Duke had the
fortress of Gradara restored, and likewise the Palace at Castel Durante, insomuch that all
that is good in those works came from that admirable genius. Girolamo also built the corridor
of the Palace at Urbino, above the garden, and he enclosed a courtyard on one side with perforated
stone-work executed with great diligence.

From the design of the same master, likewise, were begun the Convent of the Frati Zoccolanti
at Monte Baroccio and S. Maria delle Grazie at Sinigaglia, which in the end remained unfinished
by reason of the death of the Duke. And about the same time was begun after his directions
and design the Vescovado of Sinigaglia, of which the model, made by him, is still to be seen.
He also executed some works in sculpture and figures of clay and wax in the round, beautiful
enough, which are in the house of his family at Urbino. For the Imperiale he made some Angels
in clay, which he afterwards caused to be cast in bronze and placed over the doors of the rooms
decorated with stucco-work in the new palace; and these are very beautiful. For the Bishop
of Sinigaglia he executed some fantasies in wax in the form of drinking-cups, which were afterwards
to be made in silver; and with greater diligence he made some others, most beautiful, for the
Duke's credence. He showed fine invention in masquerades and costumes, as was seen in the time
of the above-named Duke, by whom he was passing well rewarded, as he deserved, for his rare
parts and good qualities.

His son, Guidobaldo, who reigns at the present day, having then succeeded him as Duke, caused
a beginning to be made by the above-named Genga with the Church of S. Giovan Battista at Pesaro,
which, having been carried out according to the model of Girolamo by his son Bartolommeo, is
of very beautiful architecture in every part, for he imitated the antique considerably, and
made it in such a manner that it is the most beautiful temple that there is in those parts,
as the work itself clearly demonstrates, being able to challenge comparison with the most famous
buildings in Rome. After his designs and directions, likewise, there was executed in S. Chiara
at Urbino by the Florentine sculptor Bartolommeo Ammanati, who was then very young, the tomb
of Duke Francesco Maria, which, for a simple work of little cost, proved to be very beautiful.
In like manner, the Venetian painter Battista Franco was summoned by him to paint the great
chapel of the Duomo at Urbino, at the time when there was being made after his design the ornament
of the organ of that Duomo, which is not yet finished.

Shortly afterwards, the Cardinal of Mantua having written to the Duke that he should send him
Girolamo, because he wished to restore the Vescovado of that city, Girolamo went thither and
fitted it up very well with lights and with all that the above-named lord desired. Besides
this, the Cardinal, wishing to make a beautiful façade for the Duomo, caused him to prepare
a model for it, which was executed by him in such a manner, that it may be said that it surpassed
all the architectural works of his time, for the reason that in it may be seen grandeur, proportion,
grace, and great beauty of composition.

Having then returned from Mantua, now an old man, he went to live at a villa of his own, called
Le Valle, in the territory of Urbino, in order to rest and enjoy the fruits of his labours;
in which place, not wishing to remain idle, he executed in chalk a Conversion of S. Paul with
figures and horses of considerable size and in very beautiful attitudes, which was finished
by him with such patience and diligence, that no greater could be either described or seen,
as is evident from the work itself, now in the possession of his heirs, by whom it is treasured
as a very dear and precious thing. There, while living with a tranquil mind, he was attacked
by a terrible fever, and, after he had received all the Sacraments of the Church, finished
the course of his life, to the infinite grief of his wife and children, on the 11th of July
in the year 1551, at the age of about seventy-five. Having been carried from that place to
Urbino, he was buried with honour in the Vescovado, in front of the Chapel of S. Martino formerly
painted by him; and his death caused extraordinary sorrow to his relatives and to all the citizens.

Girolamo was always an excellent man, insomuch that nothing was ever heard of any bad action
committed by him. He was not only a painter, sculptor, and architect, but also a good musician
and a fine talker, and his society was very agreeable. He was full of courtesy and lovingness
towards his relatives and friends; and, what entitles him to no little praise, he laid the
foundation of the house of Genga at Urbino with his good name and property. He left two sons,
one of whom followed in his footsteps and gave his attention to architecture, in which, if
he had not been hindered by death, he was like to become most excellent, as his beginnings
demonstrate; and the other, who devoted himself to the cares of the family, is still alive
at the present day.

A disciple of Girolamo, as has been related, was Francesco Menzochi of Forlì, who first began
to draw by himself when still a child, imitating and copying an altar-piece in the Duomo of
Forlì, by the hand of Marco Parmigiano[7] of Forlì, containing a Madonna, S. Jerome, and other
Saints, and held at that time to be the best of the modern pictures; and he occupied himself
likewise with imitating the works of Rondinino[8] da Ravenna, a painter more excellent than
Marco, who a little time before had placed on the high-altar of the above-named Duomo a most
beautiful altar-piece, in which was painted Christ giving the Communion to the Apostles, and
in a lunette above it a Dead Christ, and in the predella of that altar-piece very graceful
scenes with little figures from the life of S. Helen. These works brought him forward in such
a manner, that, when Girolamo Genga went, as we have said, to paint the chapel in S. Francesco
at Forlì for M. Bartolommeo Lombardino, Francesco at that time went to live with Genga, seizing
that opportunity of learning, and did not cease to serve him as long as he lived. There, and
also at Urbino and in the work of the Imperiale at Pesaro, he laboured continually, as has
been related, esteemed and beloved by Genga, because he acquitted himself very well, as many
altar-pieces by his hand bear witness that are dispersed throughout the city of Forlì, and
particularly three of them which are in S. Francesco, besides that there are some scenes of
his in fresco in the hall of the Palace.

         [Footnote 7: Palmezzani.]

         [Footnote 8: Rondinello.]

He painted many works throughout Romagna; and at Venice, also, for the very reverend Patriarch
Grimani, he executed four large pictures in oils that were placed in the ceiling of a little
hall in his house, round an octagon that Francesco Salviati painted; in which pictures are
the stories of Psyche, held to be very beautiful. But the place where he strove to do his utmost
and to put forth all his powers, was the Chapel of the most holy Sacrament in the Church of
Loreto, in which he painted some Angels round a tabernacle of marble wherein rests the Body
of Christ, and two scenes on the walls of that chapel, one of Melchizedek and the other of
the Manna raining down, both executed in fresco; and over the vaulting he distributed fifteen
little scenes of the Passion of Jesus Christ, nine of which he executed in painting, and six
in half-relief. This was a rich work and well conceived, and he won for it such honour, that
he was not suffered to depart until he had decorated another chapel of equal size in the same
place, opposite to the first, and called the Chapel of the Conception, with the vaulting all
wrought with rich and very beautiful stucco-work; in which he taught the art of stucco-work
to his son Pietro Paolo, who has since done him honour and has become a well-practised master
in that field. Francesco, then, painted in fresco on the walls the Nativity and the Presentation
of Our Lady, and over the altar he painted S. Anne and the Virgin with the Child in her arms,
and two Angels that are crowning her. And, in truth, his works are much extolled by the craftsmen,
and likewise his ways and his life, which was that of a true Christian; and he lived in peace,
enjoying that which he had gained with his labours.

A pupil of Genga, also, was Baldassarre Lancia of Urbino, who, having given his attention to
many ingenious matters, has since practised his hand in fortifications, at which he worked
on a salary for the Signoria of Lucca, in which place he stayed for some time. He then attached
himself to the most illustrious Duke Cosimo de' Medici, whom he came to serve in the fortifications
of the states of Florence and Siena; and the Duke has employed and still employs him in many
ingenious works, in which Baldassarre has laboured valiantly and with honour, winning remunerations
from that grateful lord.

Many others also served Girolamo Genga, of whom, from their not having attained to any great
excellence, there is no need to speak.

To the above-named Girolamo, at Cesena, in the year 1518, the while that he was accompanying
the Duke his master in exile, there was born a son called Bartolommeo, who was brought up by
him very decently, and then, when he was well grown, placed to learn grammar, in which he made
more than ordinary proficience. Afterwards, when he was eighteen years of age, the father,
perceiving that he was inclined more to design than to letters, caused him to study design
under his own discipline for about two years: which finished, he sent him to study design and
painting in Florence, where he knew that the true study of that art was to be found, on account
of the innumerable works by excellent masters that are there, both ancient and modern. Living
in that place, and attending to design and to architecture, Bartolommeo formed a friendship
with Giorgio Vasari, the painter and architect of Arezzo, and with the sculptor Bartolommeo
Ammanati, from whom he learned many things appertaining to art. Finally, after having been
three years in Florence, he returned to his father, who was then attending to the building
of S. Giovanni Battista at Pesaro. Whereupon, the father having seen the designs of Bartolommeo,
it appeared to him that he acquitted himself much better in architecture, for which he had
a very good inclination, than in painting; wherefore, keeping him under his own care some months,
he taught him the methods of perspective. And afterwards he sent him to Rome, to the end that
he might see the marvellous buildings, both ancient and modern, that are there, of which, in
the four years that he stayed there, he took the measurements, and made therein very great
proficience. Then, on his way back to Urbino, passing through Florence in order to see Francesco[9]
San Marino, his brother-in-law, who was living there as engineer to the Lord Duke Cosimo, Signor
Stefano Colonna da Palestrina, at that time general to that lord, having heard of his ability,
sought to engage him with himself, with a good salary. But he, being much indebted to the Duke
of Urbino, would not attach himself to others, and returned to Urbino, where he was received
by that Duke into his service, and ever afterwards held very dear.

         [Footnote 9: Giovan Battista.]

Not long afterwards, the Duke taking to wife Signora Vittoria Farnese, Bartolommeo received
from the Duke the charge of executing the festive preparations for those nuptials, which he
did in a truly honourable and magnificent manner. Among other things, he made a triumphal arch
in the Borgo di Valbuona, so beautiful and so well wrought, that there is none larger or more
beautiful to be seen; whence it became evident how much knowledge of architecture he had acquired
at Rome. Then the Duke, having to go into Lombardy, as General to the Signoria of Venice, to
inspect the fortresses of that dominion, took with him Bartolommeo, of whom he availed himself
much in preparing designs and sites of fortresses, and in particular at the Porta S. Felice
in Verona. Now, while Bartolommeo was in Lombardy, the King of Bohemia, who was returning from
Spain to his kingdom, passed through that province and was received with honour by the Duke
at Verona; and he saw those fortresses. And, since they pleased him, after he had become acquainted
with Bartolommeo, he wished to take him to his kingdom, in order to make use of him in fortifying
his territories, with a good salary; but the Duke would not give him leave, and the matter
went no further.

When they had returned to Urbino, no long time passed before Girolamo, the father, came to
his death; whereupon Bartolommeo was set by the Duke in the place of his father over all the
buildings of the state, and sent to Pesaro, where he continued the building of S. Giovanni
Battista, after the model of Girolamo. During that time he built in the Palace of Pesaro, over
the Strada de' Mercanti, a suite of rooms which the Duke now occupies; a fine work, with most
beautiful ornaments in the form of doors, staircases, and chimney-pieces, of which things he
was an excellent architect. Which having seen, the Duke desired that in the Palace of Urbino
as well he should make another suite of apartments, almost entirely on the façade that faces
towards S. Domenico; and this, when finished, proved to be the most beautiful suite in that
court, or rather, palace, and the most ornate that is there. Not long afterwards, the Signori
of Bologna having asked for him for some days from the Duke, his Excellency granted him to
them very readily; and he, having gone, served them in what they desired in such a manner,
that they remained very well satisfied and showed him innumerable courtesies.

He then made for the Duke, who desired to construct a sea-port at Pesaro, a very beautiful
model; and this was taken to Venice, to the house of Count Giovan Giacomo Leonardi, at that
time the Duke's Ambassador in that place, to the end that it might be seen by many of the profession
who often assembled, with other choice spirits, to hold discussions and disputations on various
matters in the house of the above-named Count, who was a truly remarkable man. There, then,
after that model had been seen and the fine discourse of Genga had been heard, the model was
held by all without exception to be masterly and beautiful, and the master who had made it
a man of the rarest genius. But, when he had returned to Pesaro, the model after all was not
carried into execution, because new circumstances of great importance drove that project out
of the Duke's mind.

About that time Genga made the design of the Church of Monte L'Abbate, and also that of the
Church of S. Piero in Mondavio, which was carried into execution by Don Pier Antonio Genga
in such a manner, that, for a small work, I do not believe that there is anything better to
be seen.

These works finished, no long time passed before, Pope Julius III having been elected, and
the Duke of Urbino having been created by him Captain General of Holy Church, his Excellency
went to Rome, and Genga with him. There, his Holiness wishing to fortify the Borgo, at the
request of the Duke Genga made some very beautiful designs, which, with a number of others,
are in the collection of his Excellency at Urbino. For these reasons the fame of Bartolommeo
spread abroad, and the Genoese, while he was living with the Duke in Rome, asked for him from
his Excellency, in order to make use of him in some fortifications of their own; but the Duke
would not grant him to them, either at that time or on another occasion when they again asked
for him, after his return to Urbino.

In the end, when he was near the close of his life, there were sent to Pesaro by the Grand
Master of Rhodes two knights of that Order of Jerusalem, to beseech his Excellency that he
should deign to lend them Bartolommeo, to the end that they might take him to the Island of
Malta, in which they wished to construct not only very large fortifications wherewith to defend
themselves against the Turks, but also two cities, so as to unite many villages that were there
into one or two places. Whereupon the Duke, whom the above-named knights in two months had
not been able to induce to grant them Bartolommeo, although they had availed themselves of
the good services of the Duchess and others, finally complied with their request for a fixed
period, at the entreaty of a good Capuchin father, to whom his Excellency bore a very great
affection, and refused nothing that he asked; and the artifice that was used by that holy man,
who made it a matter of conscience with the Duke, saying that it was in the interest of the
Christian Republic, was not otherwise than highly commendable and worthy of praise. And thus
Bartolommeo, who had never received any favour greater than this, departed with the above-named
knights from Pesaro on the 20th of January, 1558; but they lingered in Sicily, being delayed
by the fortune of the sea, and they did not reach Malta, where they were received with rejoicing
by the Grand Master, until the 11th of March. Having then been shown what he was to do, he
acquitted himself so well in those fortifications, that it could not be expressed in words;
insomuch that to the Grand Master and all those noble knights it appeared that they had found
another Archimedes, and this they proved by making him most honourable presents and holding
him, as a rare master, in supreme veneration. Then, after having made the models of a city,
of some churches, and of the palace and residence of the same Grand Master, with most beautiful
invention and design, he fell sick of his last illness, for, having set himself one day in
the month of July, the heat in that island being very great, between two doors to refresh himself,
he had not been there long when he was assailed by insufferable pains of the body and by a
cruel flux, which killed him in seventeen days, to the infinite sorrow of the Grand Master
and all those most honourable and valiant knights, to whom it appeared that they had found
a man after their own hearts, when he was snatched from them by death. The Lord Duke of Urbino,
having been advised of this sad news, felt indescribable sorrow, and bewailed the death of
poor Genga; and then, having resolved to demonstrate to the five children whom he had left
behind him the love that he bore to him, he took them under his particular and loving protection.

Bartolommeo showed beautiful invention in masquerades, and was a rare master in making scenic
settings for comedies. He delighted to write sonnets and other compositions in verse and prose,
and in none was he better than in the ottava rima, in which manner of writing he was an author
of passing good renown. He died at the age of forty, in the year 1558.

Giovan Battista Bellucci of San Marino having been the son-in-law of Girolamo Genga, I have
judged that it would not be well to withhold what I have to say of him, after the Lives of
Girolamo and Bartolommeo Genga, and particularly in order to show that men of fine intellect,
if only they be willing, succeed in everything, even if they set themselves late in life to
difficult and honourable enterprises; for study, when added to natural inclination, has often
been seen to accomplish marvellous things. Giovan Battista, then, was born in San Marino on
the 27th of September, 1506, to Bartolommeo Bellucci, a person of passing good family in that
place; and after he had learned the first rudiments of the humanities, when eighteen years
of age, he was sent by that same Bartolommeo, his father, to Bologna, to attend to the pursuit
of commerce under Bastiano di Ronco, a merchant of the Guild of Wool. Having been there about
two years, he returned to San Marino sick of a quartan fever, which hung upon him two years;
of which being finally cured, he set up a wool business of his own, with which he continued
up to the year 1535, at which time his father, perceiving that Giovan Battista was in good
circumstances, gave him for a wife in Cagli a daughter of Guido Peruzzi, a person of considerable
standing in that city. But she died not long afterwards, and Giovan Battista went to Rome to
seek out Domenico Peruzzi, his brother-in-law, who was equerry to Signor Ascanio Colonna; and
by means of him Giovan Battista lived for two years with that lord as a gentleman. He then
returned home; and it came about that, as he frequented Pesaro, Girolamo Genga, having come
to know him as an excellent and well-behaved young man, gave him a daughter of his own for
wife and took him into his house. Whereupon Giovan Battista, being much inclined to architecture,
and giving his attention with much diligence to the architectural works that his wife's father
was executing, began to gain a very good grasp of the various manners of building, and to study
Vitruvius; and thus, what with that which he acquired by himself and that which Genga taught
him, he became a good architect, and particularly in the matter of fortifications and other
things relating to war.

Then, in the year 1541, his wife died, leaving him two boys; and he remained until 1543 without
coming to any further resolution about his life. At that time, in the month of September, there
appeared in San Marino one Signor Gustamante, a Spaniard, sent by his Imperial Majesty to that
Republic on some affairs. Giovan Battista was recognized by him as an excellent architect,
and at his instance he entered not long afterwards into the service of the most illustrious
Lord Duke Cosimo, as engineer. And thus, having arrived in Florence, his Excellency made use
of him for all the fortifications of his dominion, according to the necessities that arose
every day; and, among other things, the fortress of the city of Pistoia having been begun many
years before, San Marino, by the desire of the Duke, completely finished it, with great credit
to himself, although it is no great work. Then, under the direction of the same architect,
a very strong bastion was built at Pisa. Wherefore, his method of work pleasing the Duke, his
Excellency caused him to construct--where, as has been related, there had been built on the
hill of S. Miniato, without Florence, the wall that curves from the Porta S. Niccolò to the
Porta S. Miniato--the fortification that encloses a gate by means of two bastions, and guards
the Church and Monastery of S. Miniato; making on the summit of that hill a fortress that dominates
the whole city and looks on the outer side towards the east and the south, a work that was
vastly extolled. The same Giovan Battista made many designs and ground-plans of various fortifications
for places in the states of his Excellency, and also various rough models in clay, which are
in the possession of the Lord Duke. And since San Marino was a man of fine genius and very
studious, he wrote a little book on the methods of fortifications; which work, a beautiful
and useful one, is now in the possession of Messer Bernardo Puccini, a gentleman of Florence,
who learned many things with regard to the matters of architecture and fortification from San
Marino, who was much his friend.

Giovan Battista, after having designed in the year 1554 many bastions that were to be built
round the walls of the city of Florence, some of which were begun in earth, went with the most
illustrious lord, Don Garzia di Toledo, to Monte Alcino, where, having made some trenches,
he mined under a bastion and so shattered it, that he threw down the breastwork; but as it
was falling to the ground a harquebus-ball struck San Marino in the thigh. Not long afterwards,
his wound being healed, he went secretly to Siena and took the ground-plan of that city, and
of the earthworks that the people of Siena had made at the Porta Camollia; which plan of fortifications
he then showed to the Lord Duke and to the Marchese di Marignano, making it clear to them that
the work was not difficult to capture or to secure afterwards on the side towards Siena. That
this was true was proved by the fact, the night that it was taken by the above-named Marquis,
with whom Giovan Battista had gone by order and commission of the Duke. On that account, then,
the Marquis, having conceived an affection for him and knowing that he had need of his judgment
and ability in the field (that is, in the war against Siena), so went to work with the Duke,
that his Excellency sent Giovan Battista off as captain of a strong company of foot-soldiers;
whereupon he served from that day onward in the field, as a valiant soldier and an ingenious
architect. Finally, having been sent by the Marquis to Aiuola, a fortress in the Chianti, while
disposing the artillery he was wounded in the head by a harquebus-ball; wherefore he was taken
by his soldiers to the Pieve di S. Paolo, which belongs to Bishop da Ricasoli, and died in
a few days, and was carried to San Marino, where he received honourable burial from his children.

Giovan Battista deserves to be highly extolled, for the reason that, besides having been excellent
in his profession, it is a marvellous thing that, having set himself to give attention to it
late in life, at the age of thirty-five, he should have made in it the proficience that he
did make; and it may be believed that if he had begun younger, he would have become a very
rare master. Giovan Battista was something obstinate, so that it was a serious undertaking
to move him from any opinion. He took extraordinary pleasure in reading stories, and turned
them to very great advantage, writing down with great pains the most notable things in them.
His death much grieved the Duke and his innumerable friends; wherefore his son Gian Andrea,
coming to kiss his Excellency's hands, was received kindly by him and welcomed most warmly
with very generous offers, on account of the ability and fidelity of the father, who died at
the age of forty-eight.

MICHELE SAN MICHELE

LIFE OF MICHELE SAN MICHELE

ARCHITECT OF VERONA

Michele San Michele, who was born at Verona in the year 1484, and learned the first principles
of architecture from his father Giovanni and his uncle Bartolommeo, both excellent architects,
went off at sixteen years of age to Rome, leaving his father and two brothers of fine parts,
one of whom, called Jacopo, devoted himself to letters, and the other, named Don Camillo, was
a Canon Regular and General of that Order. Having arrived there, he studied the ancient remains
of architecture in such a manner, and with such diligence, observing and measuring everything
minutely, that in a short time he became renowned and famous not only in Rome, but throughout
all the places that are around that city. Moved by his fame, the people of Orvieto summoned
him as architect to their celebrated temple, with an honourable salary; and while he was employed
in their service, he was summoned for the same reason to Monte Fiascone, as architect for the
building of their principal temple; and thus, serving both the one and the other of these places,
he executed all that there is to be seen in these two cities in the way of good architecture.
Among other works, a most beautiful tomb was built after his design in S. Domenico at Monte
Fiascone--I believe, for one of the Petrucci, a nobleman of Siena--which cost a great sum of
money, and proved to be marvellous. Besides all this, he made an infinite number of designs
for private houses in those places, and made himself known as a man of great judgment and excellence.

Thereupon Pope Clement VII, proposing to make use of him in the most important operations of
the wars that were stirring at that time throughout all Italy, gave him as a companion to Antonio
da San Gallo, with a very good salary, to the end that they might go together to inspect all
the places of greatest importance in the States of the Church, and, wherever necessary, might
see to the construction of fortifications; above all, at Parma and Piacenza, because those
two cities were most distant from Rome, and nearest and most exposed to the perils of war.
Which duty having been executed by Michele and Antonio to the full satisfaction of the Pontiff,
there came to Michele a desire, after all those years, to revisit his native city and his relatives
and friends, and even more to see the fortresses of the Venetians. Wherefore, after he had
been a few days in Verona, he went to Treviso to see the fortress there, and then to Padua
for the same purpose; but the Signori of Venice, having been warned of this, became suspicious
that San Michele might be going about inspecting those fortresses with a hostile intent. Having
therefore been arrested at Padua at their command and thrown into prison, he was examined at
great length; but, when it was found that he was an honest man, he was not only liberated by
them, but also entreated that he should consent to enter the service of those same Signori
of Venice, with honourable rank and salary. He excused himself by saying that he was not able
to do that for the present, being engaged to his Holiness; but he gave them fair promises,
and then took his leave of them. Now he had not been away long, when he was forced to depart
from Rome--to such purpose did those Signori go to work in order to secure him--and to go,
with the gracious leave of the Pope, whom he first satisfied in full, to serve those most illustrious
noblemen, his natural lords. Abiding with them, he gave soon enough a proof of his judgment
and knowledge by making at Verona (after many difficulties which the work appeared to present)
a very strong and beautiful bastion, which gave infinite satisfaction to those Signori and
to the Lord Duke of Urbino, their Captain General. After these things, the same Signori, having
determined to fortify Legnago and Porto, places most important to their dominion, and situated
upon the River Adige, one on one side and the other on the opposite side, but joined by a bridge,
commissioned San Michele to show them by means of a model how it appeared to him that those
places could and should be fortified. Which having been done by him, his design gave infinite
satisfaction to the Signori and to the Duke of Urbino. Whereupon, arrangements having been
made for all that had to be done, San Michele executed the fortifications of those two places
in such a manner, that among works of that kind there is nothing better to be seen, or more
beautiful, or more carefully considered, or stronger, as whoever has seen them well knows.

This done, he fortified in the Bresciano, almost from the foundations, Orzinuovo, a fortress
and port similar to Legnago. San Michele being then sought for with great insistence by Signor
Francesco Sforza, last Duke of Milan, the Signori consented to grant him leave, but for three
months only. Having therefore gone to Milan, he inspected all the fortresses of that State,
and gave directions in every place for all that it seemed to him necessary to do, and that
with such credit and so much to the satisfaction of the Duke, that his Excellency, besides
thanking the Signori of Venice, presented five hundred crowns to San Michele. And with this
occasion, before returning to Venice, Michele went to Casale di Monferrato, in order to see
that very strong and beautiful fortress and city, the architecture of which was the work of
Matteo San Michele, an excellent architect, his cousin; and also an honoured and very beautiful
tomb of marble erected in S. Francesco in the same city, likewise under the direction of Matteo.

Having then returned home, he had no sooner arrived than he was sent with the above-named Duke
of Urbino to inspect La Chiusa, a fortress and pass of much importance, above Verona, and then
all the places in Friuli, Bergamo, Vicenza, Peschiera, and others, of all which, and of what
seemed to him to be required, he gave minute information in writing to the Signori. Having
next been sent by the same Signori to Dalmatia, to fortify the cities and other places of that
province, he inspected everything, and carried out restorations with great diligence wherever
he saw the necessity to be greatest; and, since he could not himself despatch all the work,
he left there Gian Girolamo, his kinsman, who, after fortifying Zara excellently well, erected
from the foundations the marvellous fortress of S. Niccolò, over the mouth of the harbour of
Sebenico.

Meanwhile Michele was sent in great haste to Corfu, and restored the fortress there in many
parts; and he did the same in all the places in Cyprus and Candia. Even so, not long afterwards--on
account of a fear that the island might be lost, by reason of the war with the Turks, which
was imminent--he was forced to return there, after having inspected the fortresses of the Venetian
dominion in Italy, to fortify, with incredible rapidity, Canea, Candia, Retimo, and Settia,
but particularly Canea and Candia, which he rebuilt from the foundations and made impregnable.
Napoli di Romania being then besieged by the Turks, what with the diligence of S. Michele in
fortifying it and furnishing it with bastions, and the valour of Agostino Chisoni of Verona,
a very valiant captain, in defending it with arms, it was not after all taken by the enemy
or forced to surrender.

These wars finished, San Michele went with the Magnificent M. Tommaso Mozzenigo, Captain General
of the Fleet, to fortify Corfu once again; and they then returned to Sebenico, where the diligence
of Gian Girolamo, shown by him in constructing the above-mentioned fortress of S. Niccolò,
was much commended. San Michele having then returned to Venice, where he was much extolled
for the works executed in the Levant in the service of that Republic, the Signori resolved
to build a fortress on the Lido, at the mouth of the port of Venice. Wherefore, giving the
charge of this to San Michele, they said to him that, if he had done such great things far
away from Venice, he should think how much it was his duty to do in a work of such importance,
which was to lie for ever under the eyes of the Senate and of so many great lords; and that
in addition, besides beauty and strength in the work, there was expected of him particular
industry in founding truly and well in a marshy spot, which was surrounded on all sides by
the sea and exposed to the ebb and flow of the tide, a pile of such importance. San Michele
having therefore not only made a very beautiful and solid model, but also considered the method
of laying the foundations and carrying it into effect, orders were given to him that he should
set his hand to the work without delay. Whereupon, after receiving from those Signori all that
was required, he prepared the materials for filling in the foundations, and, besides this,
caused great numbers of piles to be sunk in double rows, and then, with a vast number of persons
well acquainted with those waters, he set himself to make the excavations, and to contrive
by means of pumps and other instruments to keep the water pumped out, which was seen continually
rising from below, because the site was in the sea. One morning, finally, resolving to make
a supreme effort to begin the foundations, and assembling as many men fit for the purpose as
could be obtained, with all the porters of Venice, and many of the Signori being present, in
a moment, with incredible assiduity and promptitude, the waters were mastered for a little
to such purpose, that the first stones of the foundations were thrown instantly upon the piles
already driven in; which stones, being very large, took up much space and made an excellent
foundation. And so, continuing to keep the water pumped out without losing any time, almost
in a flash those foundations were laid, contrary to the expectation of many who had looked
upon that work as absolutely impossible. The foundations, when finished, were allowed sufficient
time to settle, and then Michele erected upon them a mighty and marvellous fortress, building
it on the outer side all in rustic work, with very large stones from Istria, which are of an
extreme hardness and able to withstand wind, frost, and the worst of weather. Wherefore that
fortress, besides being marvellous with regard to the site on which it is built, is also, from
the beauty of the masonry and from its incredible cost, one of the most stupendous that there
are in Europe at the present day, rivalling the grandeur and majesty of the most famous edifices
erected by the greatness of the Romans; for, besides other things, it appears as if made all
from one block, and as though a mountain of living rock had been carved and given that form,
so large are the blocks of which it is built, and so well joined and united together, not to
speak of the ornaments and other things that are there, seeing that one would never be able
to say enough to do them justice. Within it Michele afterwards made a piazza, divided by pilasters
and arches of the Rustic Order, which would have proved to be a very rare work, if it had not
been left unfinished.

This vast pile having been carried to the condition that has been described, some malign and
envious persons said to the Signoria that, although it was very beautiful and built with every
possible consideration, nevertheless it would be useless for any purpose, and perhaps even
dangerous, for the reason that on discharging the artillery--on account of the great quantity
and weight of artillery that the place required--it was almost inevitable that the edifice
should split open and fall to the ground. It therefore appeared to those prudent Signori that
it would be well to make certain of this, the matter being one of great importance; and they
caused to be taken there a vast quantity of artillery, the heaviest that could be found in
the Arsenal. Then, all the embrasures both above and below having been filled with cannon,
and the cannon charged more heavily than was usual, they were all fired off together; whereupon
such were the noise, the thunder, and the earthquake that resulted, that it seemed as if the
world had burst to pieces, and the fortress, with all those flaming cannon, had the appearance
of a volcano and of Hell itself. But for all that the building stood firm in its former strength
and solidity, whereby the Senate was convinced of the great worth of San Michele, and the evil-speakers
were put to scorn as men of little judgment, although they had put such terror into everyone,
that the ladies then pregnant, fearing some great disaster, had withdrawn from Venice.

Not long afterwards a place of no little importance on the coast near Venice, called Marano,
having returned under the dominion of the Venetians, was restored and fortified with promptitude
and diligence under the direction of San Michele. And about the same time, the fame of Michele
and of his kinsman, Gian Girolamo, spreading ever more widely, they were requested many times,
both the one and the other, to go to live with the Emperor Charles V and with King Francis
of France; but, although they were invited under most honourable conditions, they would not
leave their own masters to enter into the service of foreigners. Indeed, continuing in their
offices, they went about inspecting and restoring every year, wherever it was necessary, all
the cities and fortresses of the State of Venice.

But more than all the rest did Michele fortify and adorn his native city of Verona, making
there, besides other things, those most beautiful gates of the city, which have no equal in
any other place. One was the Porta Nuova, all in the Dorico-rustic Order, which in its solidity
and massive firmness corresponds to the strength of the site, being all built of tufa and pietra
viva,[10] and having within it rooms for the soldiers who mount guard there, and many other
conveniences, never before added to that kind of building. That edifice, which is quadrangular
and open above, serving with its embrasures as a cavalier, defends two great bastions, or rather,
towers, which stand one on either side of the gate at proper distances; and all is done with
so much judgment, cost, and magnificence, that no one thought that for the future there could
be executed any work of greater grandeur or better design, even as none such had been seen
in the past. But a few years afterwards the same San Michele founded and carried upwards the
gate commonly called the Porta dal Palio, which is in no way inferior to that described above,
but equally beautiful, grand, and magnificent, or even more so, and designed excellently well.
And, in truth, in these two gates the Signori of Venice may be seen to have equalled, by means
of the genius of this architect, the edifices and fabrics of the ancient Romans.

         [Footnote 10: Any kind of stone that is easily split.]

This last gate, then, is on the outer side of the Doric Order, with immense projecting columns,
all fluted according to the manner of that Order; and these columns, which are eight in all,
are placed in pairs. Four serve to enclose the gate, with the arms of the Rectors of the city,
between one and another, on either side, and the other four, likewise in pairs, make a finish
to the angles of the gate, the façade of which is very wide and all of bosses, or rather, blocks,
not rough, but made smooth, with very beautiful ornamentation; and the opening, or rather passage,
through the gate, is left quadrangular, but of an architecture that is new, bizarre, and most
beautiful. Above it is a great and very rich Doric cornice, with all its appurtenances, over
which, as may be seen from the model, was to go a fronton with all its ornaments, forming a
parapet for the artillery, since this gate, like the other, was to serve as a cavalier. Within
the gate are very large rooms for the soldiers, with other apartments and conveniences. On
the front that faces towards the city, San Michele made a most beautiful loggia, all of the
Dorico-rustic Order on the outer side, and on the inner all in rustic work, with very large
piers. that have as ornaments columns round on the outside and on the inside square and projecting
to the half of their thickness, and all made of pieces in rustic masonry, with Doric capitals
without bases; and at the top is a great cornice, likewise Doric, and carved, passing along
the whole loggia, which is of great length, both within and without. In a word, this work is
marvellous; wherefore it was well and truly spoken by the most illustrious Signor Sforza Pallavicino,
Captain General of the Venetian forces, when he said that there was not to be found in all
Europe any structure that could in any way compare with it. This was the last of Michele's
marvels, for the reason that he had scarcely erected the whole of the first range described
above, when he finished the course of his life. Wherefore the work remained unfinished, nor
will it ever be finished at all, for there are not wanting certain malignant persons--as always
happens with great works--who censure it, striving to diminish the glory of others by their
malignity and evil-speaking, since they fail by a great measure to achieve similar things with
their own powers.

The same master built another gate at Verona, called the Porta di S. Zeno, which is very beautiful;
in any other place, indeed, it would be marvellous, but in Verona its beauty and artistry are
obscured by the two others described above. A work of Michele's, likewise, is the bastion,
or rather rampart, that is near this gate, and also another that is lower down, opposite to
S. Bernardino, and another between them, called Dell'Acquaio, which is opposite to the Campo
Marzio; and also that surpassing all the others in size, which is placed by the Chain, where
the Adige enters the city.

At Padua he built the bastion called the Cornaro, and likewise that of S. Croce, which are
both of marvellous size, and constructed in the modern manner, according to the order invented
by Michele himself. For the method of making bastions with angles was the invention of Michele,
and before his day they were made round; and whereas that kind of bastion was very difficult
to defend, at the present day, having an obtuse angle on the outer side, they can be defended
with ease, either from the cavalier erected between the two bastions and near to them, or,
indeed, from the other bastion, provided that it be near the one attacked and the ditch wide.
His invention, also, was the method of making bastions with three platforms, whereby the two
at the sides guard and defend the ditch and the curtains, with their open embrasures, and the
merlon in the centre defends itself and attacks the enemy in front. This method of fortification
has since been imitated by everyone, causing the abandonment of the ancient fashion of subterranean
embrasures, called casemates, in which, on account of the smoke and other impediments, the
artillery could not be well handled; not to mention that they often weakened the foundations
of the towers and walls.

The same Michele built two very beautiful gates at Legnago. He directed at Peschiera the work
of the first foundation of that fortress, and likewise many works at Brescia; and he always
did everything with such diligence and such good foundations, that not one of his buildings
ever showed a crack. Finally, he restored the fortress of La Chiusa above Verona, making it
possible for persons to pass by without entering the fortress, but yet in such a manner that,
on the raising of a bridge by those who are within, no one can pass by against their will,
or even show himself on the road, which is very narrow and cut out of the rock. He also built
at Verona, just after he had returned from Rome, the very beautiful bridge over the Adige,
called the Ponte Nuovo, doing this at the commission of Messer Giovanni Emo, at that time Podestà
of that city; which bridge was on account of its strength, as it still is, a marvellous thing.

Michele was excellent not only in fortifications, but also in private buildings and in temples,
churches, and monasteries, as may be seen from many buildings at Verona and other places, and
particularly from the most ornate and beautiful Chapel of the Guareschi in S. Bernardino, which
is round after the manner of a temple, and in the Corinthian Order, with all the ornaments
which that manner admits. That chapel, I say, he built all of that white pietra viva, which,
from the sound that it makes when it is being worked, is called in that city "Bronzo"; and,
in truth, that kind of stone, after fine marble, is the most beautiful that has been found
down to our own times, being absolutely solid and without holes or spots that might spoil it.
Since that chapel, then, is built on the inside all of that most beautiful stone, and wrought
by excellent masters of carving, and put together very well, it is considered that among works
of that kind there is at the present day no other more beautiful in all Italy. For Michele
made the whole work curve in a circle in such a manner, that three altars which are in it,
with their pediments and cornices, and likewise the space of the door, all turn in a perfect
round, almost after the likeness of the entrances that Filippo Brunelleschi made in the Chapels
of the Temple of the Angeli in Florence; which is a very difficult thing to do. Michele then
made therein a gallery over the first range of columns, which circles right round the chapel,
and there are to be seen most beautiful carvings in the form of columns, capitals, foliage,
grotesques, little pilasters, and other things, carved with incredible diligence. The door
of that chapel he made quadrangular on the outer side, of the Corinthian Order and very beautiful,
and similar to an ancient door that he saw, so he used to say, in some place at Rome. It is
true, indeed, that this work, after having been left unfinished by Michele, I know not for
what reason, was given, either from avarice or from lack of judgment, to certain others to
be finished, who spoiled it, to the infinite vexation of Michele, who in his lifetime saw it
ruined before his very eyes, without being able to prevent it; wherefore he used to complain
at times to his friends, but only on this account, that he had not thousands of ducats wherewith
to buy it from the avaricious hands of a woman who, by spending less than she was able, was
shamefully spoiling it.

A work of Michele's was the design of the round Temple of the Madonna di Campagna, near Verona,
which was very beautiful, although the parsimony, weakness, and little judgment of the Wardens
of that building have since disfigured it in many parts; and even worse would they have done,
if Bernardino Brugnuoli, a kinsman of Michele, had not had charge of it and made a complete
model, after which the building of that temple, as well as of many others, is now being carried
forward. For the Friars of S. Maria in Organo, or rather, the Monks of Monte Oliveto in Verona,
he made a design of the Corinthian Order, which was most beautiful, for the façade of their
church. This façade, after being carried to a certain height by Paolo San Michele, was left
not long since in that condition, on account of many expenses that were incurred by those monks
in other matters, but even more by reason of the death of him who had begun it, Don Cipriano
of Verona, a man of saintly life and of much authority in that Order, of which he was twice
General. At S. Giorgio in Verona, a convent of the Regular Priests of S. Giorgio in Alega,
the same Michele directed the building of the cupola of that church, which was a very beautiful
work, and succeeded against the expectations of many who did not think that the structure would
ever remain standing, on account of the weakness of its supports; but these were then so strengthened
by Michele, that there is no longer anything to fear. In the same convent he made the design
and laid the foundations of a very beautiful campanile of hewn stone, partly tufa and partly
pietra viva, which was carried well forward by him, and is now being continued by the above-mentioned
Bernardino, his nephew, who is employed in carrying it to completion.

Monsignor Luigi Lippomani, Bishop of Verona, having resolved to carry to completion the campanile
of his church, which had been begun a hundred years before, caused a design for this to be
made by Michele, who did it very beautifully, taking into consideration the preserving of the
old part and the expense that the Bishop was able to incur. But a certain Messer Domenico Porzio,
a Roman, and his vicar, a person with little knowledge of building, although otherwise a worthy
man, allowed himself to be imposed upon by one who also knew little about it, and gave him
the charge of carrying on that fabric. Whereupon that person built it of unprepared stone from
the mountains, and made the stairs in the thickness of the walls, doing all this in such a
manner, that everyone who was even slightly conversant with architecture foretold that which
afterwards happened--namely, that the structure would not remain standing. And, among others,
the very reverend Fra Marco de' Medici of Verona, who, in addition to his other more serious
studies, has always delighted in architecture, as he still does, predicted what would happen
to such a building; but he was answered thus: "Fra Marco counts for much in his own profession
of letters, philosophy, and theology, wherein he is public lecturer, but in architecture he
does not fish so deeply as to command belief." Finally, that campanile, having risen to the
level where the bells were to be, opened out in four parts in such a manner, that, after having
spent many thousands of crowns in building it, they had to give three hundred crowns to the
builders to throw it to the ground, lest it should fall by itself, as it would have done in
a few days, and destroy everything all around. And it is only right that this should happen
to those who desert good and eminent masters, and mix themselves up with bunglers. The above-named
Monsignor Luigi having afterwards been chosen Bishop of Bergamo, Monsignor Agostino Lippomani
was made Bishop of Verona in his place, and he commissioned Michele to reconstruct almost anew
the model of that campanile, and to set to work. And after him, according to the same model,
Monsignor Girolamo Trivisani, a friar of S. Dominic, who succeeded the last-named Lippomani
in the bishopric, has caused that work to be continued, which is now progressing passing slowly.
The model is very beautiful, and the stairs are being accommodated within the tower in such
a manner, that the fabric remains stable and very strong.

For the noble Counts della Torre of Verona, Michele built a very beautiful chapel in the manner
of a round temple, with the altar in the centre, at their villa of Fumane. And in the Church
of the Santo, at Padua, a very handsome tomb was built under his direction for Messer Alessandro
Contarini, Procurator of S. Mark, who had been Proveditor to the Venetian forces; in which
tomb it would seem that Michele sought to show in what manner such works should be done, departing
from a kind of commonplace method which, in his opinion, had in it more of the altar or chapel
than of the tomb. This work, which is very rich in ornamentation, solid in composition, and
warlike in character, has as ornaments a Thetis and two prisoners by the hand of Alessandro
Vittoria, which are held to be good figures, and a head, or rather, effigy from life of the
above-named lord, with armour on the breast, executed in marble by Danese da Carrara. There
are, in addition, other ornaments in abundance; prisoners, trophies, spoils of war, and others,
of which there is no need to make mention.

In Venice he made the model of the Convent of the Nuns of S. Biagio Catoldo, which was much
extolled. It was then resolved at Verona to rebuild the Lazzaretto, a dwelling, or rather,
hospital, which serves for the sick in times of plague, the old one having been destroyed together
with other edifices that had been in the suburbs; and Michele was commissioned to make a design
for this (which proved to be beautiful beyond all expectations), to the end that it might be
put into execution on a spot near the river, at some distance from the city and beyond the
esplanade. But this design, truly most beautiful and excellently well considered in every part,
which is now in the possession of the heirs of Luigi Brugnuoli, Michele's nephew, was not carried
completely into execution by certain persons, by reason of their little judgment and poverty
of spirit, but much restricted, curtailed, and reduced to mean proportions by those persons,
who used the authority that they had received in the matter from the public in disfiguring
the work, in consequence of the untimely death of some gentlemen who were in charge of it at
the beginning, and who had a greatness of spirit equal to their nobility of blood.

A work of Michele's, likewise, was the very beautiful palace that the noble Counts of Canossa
have at Verona, which was built at the commission of the very reverend Monsignor di Bajus,
who once was Count Lodovico Canossa, a man so much celebrated by all the writers of his time.
For the same Monsignor Michele built another magnificent palace in the Villa of Grezzano, in
the Veronese territory. Under the direction of the same architect the façade of the Counts
Bevilacqua was reconstructed, and all the apartments were restored in the castle of those lords,
called La Bevilacqua. And at Verona, likewise, he built the house and façade of the Lavezzoli,
which were much extolled.

In Venice he built from the foundations the very rich and magnificent palace of the Cornaro
family, near S. Polo, and restored another palace, also of the Cornaro family, which is by
S. Benedetto all'Albore, for M. Giovanni Cornaro, of whom Michele was much the friend; and
this led to Giorgio Vasari painting nine pictures in oils for the ceiling of a magnificent
apartment, all adorned with woodwork carved and richly overlaid with gold, in that palace.
In like manner, he restored the house of the Bragadini, opposite to S. Marina, and made it
very commodious and ornate. And in the same city he founded and raised above the ground after
a model of his own, at incredible cost, the marvellous palace of the most noble M. Girolamo
Grimani, near S. Luca, on the Grand Canal; but Michele, being overtaken by death, was not able
to carry it to completion himself, and the other architects chosen in his stead by that nobleman
altered his design and model in many parts.

Near Castelfranco, on the borders of the territories of Padua and Treviso, there was built
under the direction of the same Michele the most famous Palace of the Soranzi, called by that
family La Soranza; which palace is held to be, for a country residence, the most beautiful
and the most commodious that had been built in those parts up to that time. He also built the
Casa Cornara at Piombino, in that territory, and so many other private houses, that it would
make too long a story to attempt to speak of them all; let it be enough to have made mention
of the most important. I will not, indeed, refrain from recording that he made most beautiful
gates for two palaces, one of which was that of the Rectors and of the Captain, and the other
that of the Palazzo del Podestà, both in Verona and worthy of the highest praise, although
the latter, which is in the Ionic Order, with double columns and very ornate intercolumniations,
and some Victories at the angles, has a somewhat dwarfed appearance by reason of the lowness
of the site where it stands, particularly because it is without pedestals and very wide on
account of the double columns; but such was the wish of Messer Giovanni Delfini, who had it made.

While Michele was enjoying a tranquil ease in his native place, and the reputation and renown
that his honourable labours had brought him, there came to him a piece of news that so afflicted
him, that it finished the course of his life. But to the end that the whole may be better understood,
and that all the beautiful works of the San Michele family may be made known in this Life,
I shall say something of Gian Girolamo, the kinsman of Michele.

This Gian Girolamo, then, was the son of Paolo, the cousin of Michele, and, being a young man
of very beautiful genius, was instructed with such diligence by Michele in the matters of architecture,
and so beloved by him, that he would always have the young man with him in all undertakings
of importance, and particularly in fortifications. Having therefore become in a short time
so excellent, with the help of such a master, that the most difficult work of fortification
could be entrusted to him, in which manner of architecture he took particular delight, his
ability was recognized by the Signori of Venice, and he was placed with a good salary among
the number of their architects, although he was very young, and then sent now to one place
and now to another, to inspect and restore the fortresses of their dominion, and at times to
carry into execution the designs of his kinsman Michele. And, among other places, he took part
with much judgment and labour in the fortification of Zara, and in the marvellous fortress
of S. Niccolò at Sebenico, placed, as has been mentioned, at the mouth of the port; which fortress,
erected by him from the very foundations, is held to be, for a private fortress, one of the
strongest and best designed that there are to be seen. He also reconstructed after his own
designs, with the advice of his kinsman, the great fortress of Corfu, which is considered the
key of Italy on that side. In this fortress, I say, Gian Girolamo rebuilt the two great towers
that face towards the land, making them much larger and stronger than they were before, with
open embrasures and platforms that flank the ditch in the modern manner, after the invention
of his kinsman. He then caused the ditches to be made much wider than they were before, and
had a hill levelled, which, being near the fortress, appeared to command it. But, besides the
many other works that he did there with great consideration, what gave most satisfaction was
that in one corner of the fortress he made a place of great size and strength, in which in
time of siege the people of that island can stay in safety without any danger of being captured
by the enemy.

On account of these works Gian Girolamo came into such credit with the above-named Signori,
that they ordained him a salary equal to that of his kinsman, judging him to be not inferior
to Michele, and even superior in that work of fortification: which gave the greatest contentment
to San Michele, who saw his own art advancing in the person of his relative in proportion as
old age was taking away from himself the power to go further. Gian Girolamo, besides his great
judgment in recognizing the nature of different sites, showed much industry in having them
represented by designs and models in relief, insomuch that he enabled his patrons to see even
the most minute details of his fortifications in very beautiful models of wood that he would
cause to be made; which diligence pleased them vastly, for without leaving Venice they saw
every day how matters were proceeding in the most distant parts of their State. In order that
they might be the more readily seen by everyone, these models were kept in the Palazzo del
Principe, in a place where the Signori could examine them at their convenience; and to the
end that Gian Girolamo might continue to pursue that course, they not only reimbursed him the
expenses that he incurred in making the above-mentioned models, but also showed him many other
courtesies.

Gian Girolamo could have gone to serve many lords, with large salaries, but he would never
leave his Venetian Signori; nay, at the advice of his father and his kinsman Michele, he took
a wife in Verona, a noble young woman of the Fracastoro family, with the intention of always
living in those parts. But he had been not more than a few days with his beloved bride, who
was called Madonna Ortensia, when he was summoned by his patrons to Venice, and thence sent
in great haste to Cyprus to inspect every place in that island, orders having been given to
all the officials that they should provide him with all that he might require for any purpose.
Having then arrived in that island, in three months Gian Girolamo went all round it and diligently
inspected everything, putting every detail into writing and drawing, in order to be able to
give an account of the whole to his masters. But, while he was attending with too much care
and solicitude to his office, paying little regard to his own life, in the burning heat which
prevailed at that time in the island he fell sick of a pestilential fever, which robbed him
of life in six days; although some said that he had been poisoned. However that may have been,
he died content in being in the service of his masters and employed by them in works of importance,
knowing that they had trusted more in his fidelity and his skill in fortification than in those
of any other man. The moment that he fell sick, knowing that he was dying, he gave all the
drawings and writings that he had prepared on the works in that island into the hands of the
architect Luigi Brugnuoli, his kinsman by marriage (who was then engaged in the fortification
of Famagosta, which is the key of that kingdom), to the end that he might carry them to his
masters.

When the news of Gian Girolamo's death arrived in Venice, there was not one of the Senate who
did not feel indescribable sorrow at the loss of such a man, who had been so devoted to that
Republic. Gian Girolamo died at the age of forty-five, and received honourable burial from
his above-named kinsman in S. Niccolò at Famagosta. Then, having returned to Venice, Brugnuoli
presented Gian Girolamo's drawings and writings; which done, he was sent to give completion
to the fortifications of Legnago, where he had spent many years in executing the designs and
models of his uncle. But he had not been long in that place when he died, leaving two sons,
who are men of passing good ability in design and in the practice of architecture. Bernardino,
the elder, has now many undertakings on his hands, such as the building of the campanile of
the Duomo, that of S. Giorgio, and that of the church called the Madonna di Campagna, in which
and other works that he is directing at Verona and other places, he is succeeding excellently
well; and particularly in the ornamental work of the principal chapel of S. Giorgio at Verona,
which is of the composite order, and such that in size, design, and workmanship, the people
of Verona declare that they do not believe that there is one equal to it to be found in Italy.
This work, which follows the curve of the recess, is of the Corinthian Order, with composite
capitals and double columns in full relief, and pilasters behind. In like manner, the frontispiece
which surmounts the whole also curves in very masterly fashion according to the shape of the
recess, and has all the ornaments which that Order embraces. Wherefore Monsignor Barbaro, Patriarch-elect
of Aquileia, a man with a great knowledge of the profession, who has written of it, on his
return from the Council of Trent saw not without marvel all that had been done in that work,
and that which was being done every day; and, after considering it several times, he had to
say that he had never seen the like, and that nothing better could be done. And let this suffice
as a proof of what may be expected from the genius of Bernardino, who was born on the mother's
side from the San Michele family.

But let us return to Michele, from whom we digressed, not without reason, some little time
back. He was struck by such grief at the death of Gian Girolamo, in whom he saw the house of
San Michele become extinct, since his kinsman left no children, that, although he strove to
conquer or conceal it, in a few days he was overcome by a malignant fever, to the inconsolable
sorrow of his country and of his most illustrious patrons. Michele died in the year 1559, and
was buried in S. Tommaso, a church of Carmelite Friars, where there is the ancient burial-place
of his forefathers; and at the present day Messer Niccolò San Michele, a physician, has set
his hand to erecting him an honourable tomb, which is even now being carried into execution.

Michele was a man of most upright life, and most honourable in his every action. He was a cheerful
person, yet with an admixture of seriousness. He feared God, and was very religious, insomuch
that he would never set himself to do anything in the morning without having first heard Mass
devoutly and said his prayers; and at the beginning of any undertaking of importance, in the
morning, before doing any other thing, he would always have the Mass of the Holy Spirit or
of the Madonna solemnly chanted. He was very liberal, and so courteous with his friends, that
they were as much masters of his possessions as he was himself. And I will not withhold a proof
of his great loyalty and goodness, which I believe few others know besides myself. When Giorgio
Vasari, of whom, as has been told, he was much the friend, parted from him for the last time
in Venice, Michele said to him: "I would have you know, Messer Giorgio, that, when I was in
my youth at Monte Fiascone, I became enamoured, as fortune would have it, of the wife of a
stone-cutter, and received from her complaisance all that I desired; but no one ever heard
of it from me. Now, having heard that the poor woman has been left a widow, with a daughter
ready for a husband, whom she says she conceived by me, I wish--although it may well be that
this is not true, and such is my belief--that you should take to her these fifty crowns of
gold and give them to her on my part, for the love of God, to the end that she may use them
for her advantage and settle her daughter according to her station." Giorgio, therefore, going
to Rome, and arriving at Monte Fiascone, although the good woman freely confessed to him that
the girl was not the daughter of Michele, insisted, in obedience to Michele's command, on paying
her the fifty crowns, which were as welcome to that poor woman as five hundred would have been
to another.

Michele, then, was courteous beyond the courtesy of any other man, insomuch that he no sooner
heard of the needs and desires of his friends, than he sought to gratify them, even to the
spending of his life; nor did any person ever do him a service that was not repaid many times
over. Giorgio Vasari once made for him in Venice, with the greatest diligence at his command,
a large drawing in which the proud Lucifer and his followers, vanquished by the Angel Michael,
could be seen raining headlong down from Heaven into the horrible depths of Hell; and at that
time Michele did not do anything but thank Giorgio for it when he took leave of him. But not
many days after, returning to Arezzo, Giorgio found that San Michele had sent long before to
his mother, who lived at Arezzo, a quantity of presents beautiful and honourable enough to
be the gifts of a very rich nobleman, with a letter in which he did her great honour for love
of her son.

Many times the Signori of Venice offered to increase his salary, but he refused, always praying
that they should increase his kinsmen's salaries instead of his own. In short, Michele was
in his every action so gentle, courteous, and loving, that he made himself rightly beloved
by innumerable lords; by Cardinal de' Medici, who became Pope Clement VII, while he was in
Rome; by Cardinal Alessandro Farnese, who became Paul III; by the divine Michelagnolo Buonarroti;
by Signor Francesco Maria, Duke of Urbino; and by a vast number of noblemen and senators of
Venice. At Verona he was much the friend of Fra Marco de' Medici, a man of great learning and
infinite goodness, and of many others of whom there is no need at present to make mention.

Now, in order not to have to turn back in a short time to speak of the Veronese, taking the
opportunity presented by the masters mentioned above, I shall make mention in this place of
some painters from that country, who are still alive and worthy to be named, and by no means
to be passed over in silence. The first of these is Domenico del Riccio, who has painted in
fresco, mostly in chiaroscuro and partly in colour, three façades of the house of Fiorio della
Seta at Verona, on the Ponte Nuovo--that is, the three that do not look out upon the bridge,
the house standing by itself. In one, over the river, are battles of sea-monsters, in another
the battles of the Centaurs and many rivers, and in the third two pictures in colour. In the
first of these, which is over the door, is the Table of the Gods, and in the other, over the
river, is the fable of the nuptials between the Benacus, called the Lake of Garda, and the
Nymph Caris, in the person of Garda, from whom is born the River Mincio, which in fact issues
from that lake. In the same house is a large frieze wherein are some Triumphs in colour, executed
in a beautiful and masterly manner. In the house of Messer Pellegrino Ridolfi, also at Verona,
the same master painted the Coronation of the Emperor Charles V, and the scene when, after
being crowned in Bologna, he rides with the Pope through the city in great pomp. In oils he
has painted the principal altar-piece of the church that the Duke of Mantua has built recently
near the Castello, in which is the Beheading and Martyrdom of S. Barbara, painted with much
diligence and judgment. And what moved the Duke to have that altar-piece executed by Domenico
was his having seen and much liked his manner in an altar-piece that Domenico had painted long
before for the Chapel of S. Margherita in the Duomo of Mantua, in competition with Paolino,[11]
who painted that of S. Antonio, with Paolo Farinato, who executed that of S. Martino, and with
Battista del Moro, who painted that of the Magdalene; all which four Veronese had been summoned
thither by Cardinal Ercole of Mantua, in order to adorn that church, which had been reconstructed
by him after the design of Giulio Romano. Other works has Domenico executed in Verona, Vicenza,
and Venice, but it must suffice to have spoken of those named. He is an honest and excellent
craftsman, and, in addition to his painting, he is a very fine musician, and one of the first
in the most noble Philharmonic Academy of Verona.

         [Footnote 11: Paolo Caliari or Veronese.]

Not inferior to him will be his son Felice, who, although still young, has proved himself a
painter out of the ordinary in an altar-piece that he has executed for the Church of the Trinita,
in which are the Madonna and six other Saints, all of the size of life. Nor is this any marvel,
for the young man learned his art in Florence, living in the house of Bernardo Canigiani, a
Florentine gentleman and a crony of his father Domenico.

In the same Verona, also, lives Bernardino, called L'India, who, besides many other works,
has painted the Fable of Psyche in most beautiful figures on the ceiling of a chamber in the
house of Count Marc'Antonio del Tiene. And he has painted another chamber, with beautiful inventions
and a lovely manner of painting, for Count Girolamo of Canossa.

A much extolled painter, also, is Eliodoro Forbicini, a young man of most beautiful genius
and of considerable skill in every manner of painting, but particularly in making grotesques,
as may be seen in the two chambers mentioned above and in other places where he has worked.

In like manner Battista da Verona, who is called thus, and not otherwise, out of his own country,
after having learned the first rudiments of painting from an uncle at Verona, placed himself
with the excellent Tiziano in Venice, under whom he has become a very good painter. When a
young man, this Battista painted in company with Paolino a hall in the Palace of the Paymaster
and Assessor Portesco at Tiene in the territory of Vicenza; where they executed a vast number
of figures, which acquired credit and repute for both the one and the other. With the same
Paolino he executed many works in fresco in the Palace of the Soranza at Castelfranco, both
having been sent to work there by Michele San Michele, who loved them as his sons. And with
him, also, he painted the façade of the house of M. Antonio Cappello, which is on the Grand
Canal in Venice; and then, still together, they painted the ceiling, or rather, soffit in the
Hall of the Council of Ten, dividing the pictures between them. Not long afterwards, having
been summoned to Vicenza, Battista executed many works there, both within and around the city;
and recently he has painted the façade of the Monte della Pietà, wherein he has executed an
infinite number of nude figures in various attitudes, larger than life, with very good design,
and all in so few months, that it has been a marvel. And if he has done so much at so early
an age (for he is not yet past thirty), everyone may imagine what may be expected of him in
the course of his life.

A Veronese, likewise, is one Paolino, a painter who is in very good repute in Venice at the
present day, in that, although he is not yet more than thirty years of age, he has executed
many works worthy of praise. This master, who was born at Verona to a stone-cutter, or, as
they say in those parts, a stone-hewer, after having learned the rudiments of painting from
Giovanni Caroto of Verona, painted in fresco, in company with the above-named Battista, the
hall of the Paymaster and Assessor Portesco at Tiene, in the Vicentino; and afterwards at the
Soranza, with the same companion, many works executed with good design and judgment and a beautiful
manner. At Masiera, near Asolo in the Trevisano, he has painted the very beautiful house of
Signor Daniello Barbaro, Patriarch-elect of Aquileia. At Verona, for the Refectory of S. Nazzaro,
a monastery of Black Friars, he has painted in a large picture on canvas the supper that Simon
the Leper gave to Our Lord, when the woman of sin threw herself at His feet, with many figures,
portraits from life, and very rare perspective-views; and under the table are two dogs so beautiful
that they appear real and alive, and further away certain cripples executed excellently well.

=. Venice: Accademia, 203)

Anderson]

By the hand of Paolino, in the Hall of the Council of Ten at Venice, in an oval that is larger
than certain others that are there, placed, as the principal one, in the centre of the ceiling,
is a Jove who is driving away the Vices, in order to signify that that supreme and absolute
tribunal drives away vice and chastises wicked and vicious men. The same master painted the
soffit, or rather, ceiling of the Church of S. Sebastiano, which is a very rare work, and the
altar-piece of the principal chapel, together with some pictures that serve to adorn it, and
likewise the doors of the organ; which are all pictures truly worthy of the highest praise.
In the Hall of the Grand Council he painted a large picture of Frederick Barbarossa presenting
himself to the Pope, with a good number of figures varied in their costumes and vestments,
all most beautiful and representing worthily the Court of a Pope and an Emperor, and also a
Venetian Senate, with many noblemen and Senators of that Republic, portrayed from life. In
short, this work is such in its grandeur and design, and in the beauty and variety of the attitudes,
that it is rightly extolled by everyone. After this scene, Paolino painted the ceilings of
certain chambers, which are used by that Council of Ten, with figures in oils, which are much
foreshortened and very rare.

In like manner, he painted in fresco the façade of the house of a merchant, which was a very
beautiful work, on the road from S. Maurizio to S. Moisè; but the wind from the sea is little
by little destroying it. For Camillo Trevisani, at Murano, he painted a loggia and an apartment
in fresco, which were much extolled. And in S. Giorgio Maggiore at Venice, at the head of a
large apartment, he painted in oils the Marriage of Cana in Galilee, which was a marvellous
work for its grandeur, the number of figures, the variety of costumes, and the invention; and,
if I remember right, there are to be seen in it more than one hundred and fifty heads, all
varied and executed with great diligence.

The same Paolino was commissioned by the Procurators of S. Mark to paint certain angular medallions
that are in the ceiling of the Nicene Library, which was left to the Signoria by Cardinal Bessarion,
with a vast treasure of Greek books. Now the above-named lords, when they had the painting
of that library begun, promised a prize of honour, in addition to the ordinary payment, to
him who should acquit himself best in painting it; and the pictures were divided among the
best painters that there were at that time in Venice. When the work was finished and the pictures
painted had been very well considered, a chain of gold was placed round the neck of Paolino,
he being the man who was judged to have done better than all the others. The picture that gave
him the victory and the prize of honour was that wherein he painted Music, in which are depicted
three very beautiful young women, one of whom, the most beautiful, is playing a great bass-viol,
looking down at the fingerboard of the instrument, the attitude of her person showing that
her ear and her voice are fixed intently on the sound; and of the other two, one is playing
a lute, and the other singing from a book. Near these women is a Cupid without wings, who is
playing a harpsichord, signifying that Love is born from Music, or rather, that Love is always
in company with Music; and, because he never parts from her, Paolino made him without wings.
In the same picture he painted Pan, the God, according to the poets, of shepherds, with certain
pipes made of the bark of trees, as it were consecrated to him as votive offerings by shepherds
who have been victorious in playing them. Two other pictures Paolino painted in the same place;
in one is Arithmetic, with certain Philosophers dressed in the ancient manner, and in the other
is Honour, seated on a throne, to whom sacrifices are being offered and royal crowns presented.
But, seeing that this young man is at this very moment at the height of his activity and not
yet in his thirty-second year, I shall say nothing more of him for the present.

=. Venice: Ducal Palace)

Anderson]

Likewise a Veronese is Paolo Farinato, an able painter, who, after having been a disciple of
Niccolò Ursino,[12] has executed many works at Verona. The most important are a hall in the
house of the Fumanelli, which he filled with various scenes in fresco-colours at the desire
of Messer Antonio, a gentleman of that family, most famous as physician over all Europe, and
two very large pictures in the principal chapel of S. Maria in Organo. In one of these is the
story of the Innocents, and in the other is the scene when the Emperor Constantine causes a
number of children to be brought before him, intending to kill them and to bathe in their blood,
in order to cure himself of his leprosy. Then in the recess of that chapel are two pictures,
large, but smaller than the others, in one of which is Christ receiving S. Peter, who is walking
towards Him on the water, and in the other the dinner that S. Gregory gives to certain poor
men. In all these works, which are much to be extolled, is a vast number of figures, executed
with good design, study, and diligence. By the hand of the same master is an altar-picture
of S. Martino that was placed in the Duomo of Mantua, which he executed in competition with
others his compatriots, as has just been related.

         [Footnote 12: Giolfino.]

And let this be the end of the Lives of the excellent Michele San Michele and of those other
able men of Verona, so truly worthy of all praise on account of their excellence in the arts
and their great talents.

GIOVANNI ANTONIO BAZZI, CALLED IL SODOMA

LIFE OF GIOVANNI ANTONIO BAZZI, CALLED IL SODOMA

PAINTER OF VERCELLI

If men were to recognize their position when Fortune presents to them the opportunity to become
rich, obtaining for them the favour of great persons, and were to exert themselves in their
youth to make their merit equal to their good fortune, marvellous results would be seen to
issue from their actions; whereas very often the contrary is seen to happen, for the reason
that, even as it is true that he who trusts only in Fortune generally finds himself deceived,
so it is very clear, as experience teaches us every day, that merit alone, likewise, if not
accompanied by Fortune, does not do great things. If Giovanni Antonio of Vercelli, even as
he had good fortune, had possessed an equal dower of merit, as he could have done if he had
studied, he would not have been reduced to madness and miserable want in old age at the end
of his life, which was always eccentric and beastly.

Now Giovanni Antonio was taken to Siena by some merchants, agents of the Spannocchi family,
and his good fortune, or perhaps his bad fortune, would have it that, not finding any competition
for a time in that city, he should work there alone; which, although it was some advantage
to him, was in the end injurious, for the reason that he went to sleep, as it were, and never
studied, but did most of his work by rule of thumb. And, if he did study a little, it was only
in drawing the works of Jacopo della Fonte, which were much esteemed, and in little else. In
the beginning he executed many portraits from life with that glowing manner of colouring which
he had brought from Lombardy, and he thus made many friendships in Siena, more because that
people is very kindly disposed towards strangers than because he was a good painter; and, besides
this, he was a gay and licentious man, keeping others entertained and amused with his manner
of living, which was far from creditable. In which life, since he always had about him boys
and beardless youths, whom he loved more than was decent, he acquired the by-name of Sodoma;
and in this name, far from taking umbrage or offence, he used to glory, writing about it songs
and verses in terza rima, and singing them to the lute with no little facility. He delighted,
in addition, to have about the house many kinds of extraordinary animals; badgers, squirrels,
apes, marmosets, dwarf asses, horses, barbs for running races, little horses from Elba, jays,
dwarf fowls, Indian turtle-doves, and other suchlike animals, as many as he could lay his hands
on. But, besides all these beasts, he had a raven, which had learned from him to speak so well,
that in some things it imitated exactly the voice of Giovanni Antonio, and particularly in
answering to anyone who knocked at the door, doing this so excellently that it seemed like
Giovanni Antonio himself, as all the people of Siena know very well. In like manner, the other
animals were so tame that they always flocked round anybody in the house, playing the strangest
pranks and the maddest tricks in the world, insomuch that the man's house looked like a real
Noah's Ark.

=. Monte Oliveto Maggiore)

Alinari]

Now this manner of living and his eccentric ways, with his works and pictures, wherein he did
indeed achieve something of the good, caused him to have such a name among the people of Siena--that
is, among the populace and the common herd, for the people of quality knew him better--that
he was held by many to be a great man. Whereupon, Fra Domenico da Lecco, a Lombard, having
been made General of the Monks of Monte Oliveto, Sodoma went to visit him at Monte Oliveto
di Chiusuri, the principal seat of that Order, distant fifteen miles from Siena; and he so
contrived with his persuasive words, that he was commissioned to finish the stories of the
life of S. Benedict, part of which had been executed on a wall by Luca Signorelli of Cortona.
This work he finished for a small enough price, besides the expenses that he incurred, and
those of certain lads and colour-grinders who assisted him; nor would it be possible to describe
the amusement that he gave while he was labouring at that place to those fathers, who called
him Il Mattaccio,[13] in the mad pranks that he played.

         [Footnote 13: Madcap or buffoon.]

=. Monte Oliveto Maggiore)

Alinari]

