The small creek from which the field takes its name flows in a northwesterly direction across
the road leading from Deatonsville to Rice's Station.  By shifting to the left, Merritt gained
the Rice's Station road west of the creek, making havoc of the wagon-trains, while Crook struck
them further on and planted himself square across the road.  This blocked Ewell, who, advancing
Anderson to some high ground west of the creek, posted him behind barricades, with the intention
of making a hard fight there, while the main body should escape through the woods in a westerly
direction to roads that led to Farmville.  This was prevented, however, by Crook forming his
division, two brigades dismounted and one mounted, and at once assaulting all along Anderson's
front and overlapping his right, while Merritt fiercely attacked to the right of Crook.  The
enemy being thus held, enabled the Sixth Corps--which in the meantime I had sent for--to come
upon the ground, and Ewell, still contending with the cavalry, found himself suddenly beset
by this new danger from his rear.  To, meet it, he placed Kershaw to the right and Custis Lee
to the left of the Rice's Station road, facing them north toward and some little distance from
Sailor's Creek, supporting Kershaw with Commander Tucker's Marine brigade.  Ewell's skirmishers
held the line of Sailor's Creek, which runs through a gentle valley, the north slope of which
was cleared ground.

By General Grant's directions the Sixth Corps had been following my route of march since the
discovery, about 9 o'clock in the morning, that Lee had decamped from Amelia Court House. 
Grant had promptly informed me of this in a note, saying, "The Sixth Corps will go in with
a vim any place you may dictate," so when I sent word to Wright of the enemy's isolation, and
asked him to hurry on with all speed, his gallant corps came as fast as legs could carry them,
he sending to me successively Major McClellan and Colonel Franklin, of his staff, to report
his approach.

I was well advised as to the position of the enemy through information brought me by an intelligent
young soldier, William A. Richardson, Company "A," Second Ohio, who, in one of the cavalry
charges on Anderson, had cleared the barricades and made his way back to my front through Ewell's
line.  Richardson had told me just how the main body of the enemy was posted, so as Seymour's
division arrived I directed General Wright to put it on the right of the road, while Wheaton's
men, coming up all hot and out of breath, promptly formed on Seymour's left.  Both divisions
thus aligned faced southwest toward Sailor's Creek, and the artillery of the corps being massed
to the left and front of the Hibbon house, without waiting for Getty's division--for I feared
that if we delayed longer the enemy might effect his escape toward Farmville--the general attack
was begun.  Seymour and Wheaton, moving forward together, assailed the enemy's front and left,
and Stagg's brigade, too, which in the mean time had been placed between Wheaton's left and
Devin's right, went at him along with them, Merritt and Crook resuming the fight from their
positions in front of Anderson.  The enemy, seeing little chance of escape, fought like a tiger
at bay, but both Seymour and Wheaton pressed him vigorously, gaining ground at all points except
just to the right of the road, where Seymour's left was checked. Here the Confederates burst
back on us in a counter-charge, surging down almost to the creek, but the artillery, supported
by Getty, who in the mean time had come on the ground, opened on them so terribly that this
audacious and furious onset was completely broken, though the gallant fellows fell back to
their original line doggedly, and not until after they had almost gained the creek.  Ewell
was now hemmed in on every side, and all those under his immediate command were captured. 
Merritt and Crook had also broken up Anderson by this time, but he himself, and about two thousand
disorganized men escaped by making their way through the woods toward the Appomattox River
before they could be entirely enveloped.  Night had fallen when the fight was entirely over,
but Devin was pushed on in pursuit for about two miles, part of the Sixth Corps following to
clinch a victory which not only led to the annihilation of one corps of Lee's retreating army,
but obliged Longstreet to move up to Farmville, so as to take a road north of the Appomattox
River toward Lynchburg instead of continuing toward Danville.

At the close of the battle I sent one of my staff--Colonel Redwood Price--to General Grant
to report what had been done; that we had taken six generals and from nine to ten thousand
prisoners.  On his way Price stopped at the headquarters of General Meade, where he learned
that not the slightest intelligence of the occurrence on my line had been received, for I not
being under Meade's command, he had paid no attention to my movements.  Price gave the story
of the battle, and General Meade, realizing its importance, sent directions immediately to
General Wright to make his report of the engagement to the headquarters of the Army of the
Potomac, assuming that Wright was operating independently of me in the face of Grant's despatch
Of 2 o'clock, which said that Wright was following the cavalry and would "go in with a vim"
wherever I dictated.  Wright could not do else than comply with Meade's orders in the case,
and I, being then in ignorance of Meade's reasons for the assumption, could say nothing. But
General Grant plainly intending, and even directing, that the corps should be under my command,
remedied this phase of the matter, when informed of what had taken place, by requiring Wright
to send a report of the battle through me.  What he then did, and what his intentions and orders
were, are further confirmed by a reference to the episode in his "Memoirs," where he gives
his reasons for ordering the Sixth Corps to abandon the move on Amelia Court House and pass
to the left of the army.  On the same page he also says, referring to the 6th of April: "The
Sixth Corps now remained with the cavalry under Sheridan's direct command until after the surrender."
He unquestionably intended all of this, but his purpose was partly frustrated by General Meade's
action next morning in assuming direction of the movements of the corps; and before General
Grant became aware of the actual conditions the surrender was at hand.

CHAPTER VIII.

LINCOLN'S LACONIC DESPATCH--CAPTURING LEE'S SUPPLIES--DELIGHTED ENGINEERS--THE CONFEDERATES'
LAST EFFORT--A FLAG OF TRUCE--GENERAL GEARY'S "LAST DITCH" ABSURDITY--MEETING OF GRANT AND
LEE--THE SURRENDER--ESTIMATE OF GENERAL GRANT.

The first report of the battle of Sailor's Creek that General Grant received was, as already
stated, an oral message carried by Colonel Price, of my staff.  Near midnight I sent a despatch
giving the names of the generals captured.  These were Ewell, Kershaw, Barton, Corse, Dubose,
and Custis Lee.  In the same despatch I wrote: "If the thing is pressed, I think that Lee will
surrender."  When Mr. Lincoln, at City Point, received this word from General Grant, who was
transmitting every item of news to the President, he telegraphed Grant the laconic message:
"Let the thing be pressed." The morning of the 7th we moved out at a very early hour, Crook's
division marching toward Farmville in direct pursuit, while Merritt and Mackenzie were ordered
to Prince Edward's Court House to anticipate any effort Lee might make to escape through that
place toward Danville since it had been discovered that Longstreet had slipped away already
from the front of General Ord's troops at Rice's Station.  Crook overtook the main body of
the Confederates at Farmville, and promptly attacked their trains on the north side of the
Appomattox with Gregg's brigade, which was fiercely turned upon and forced to re-cross the
river with the loss of a number of prisoner's, among them Gregg himself.  When Crook sent word
of this fight, it was clear that Lee had abandoned all effort to escape to the southwest by
way of Danville.  Lynchburg was undoubtedly his objective point now; so, resolving to throw
my cavalry again across his path, and hold him till the infantry could overtake him, I directed
everything on Appomattox depot, recalling Crook the night of the 7th to Prospect Station, while
Merritt camped at Buffalo Creek, and Mackenzie made a reconnoissance along the Lynchburg railroad.

At break of day, April 8, Merritt and Mackenzie united with Crook at Prospect Station, and
the cavalry all moved then toward Appomattox depot.  Hardly had it started when one of the
scouts--Sergeant White --informed me that there were four trains of cars at the depot loaded
with supplies for Lee's army; these had been sent from Lynchburg, in compliance with the telegram
of Lee's commissary-general, which message, it will be remembered, was captured and transmitted
to Lynchburg by two of Young's scouts on the 4th.  Sergeant White, who had been on the lookout
for the trains ever since sending the despatch, found them several miles west of Appomattox
depot feeling their way along, in ignorance of Lee's exact position.  As he had the original
despatch with him, and took pains to dwell upon the pitiable condition of Lee's army, he had
little difficulty in persuading the men in charge of the trains to bring them east of Appomattox
Station, but fearing that the true state of affairs would be learned before long, and the trains
be returned to Lynchburg, he was painfully anxious to have them cut off by breaking the track
west of the station.

The intelligence as to the trains was immediately despatched to Crook, and I pushed on to join
him with Merritt's command.  Custer having the advance, moved rapidly, and on nearing the station
detailed two regiments to make a detour southward to strike the railroad some distance beyond
and break the track.  These regiments set off at a gallop, and in short order broke up the
railroad enough to prevent the escape of the trains, Custer meanwhile taking possession of
the station, but none too soon, for almost at the moment he did so the advance-guard of Lee's
army appeared, bent on securing the trains.

Devin coming up a little before dusk, was put in on the right of Custer, and one of Crook's
brigades was sent to our left and the other two held in reserve.  I then forced the enemy back
on the Appomattox road to the vicinity of the Court House, and that the Confederates might
have no rest, gave orders to continue the skirmishing throughout the night.  Meanwhile the
captured trains had been taken charge of by locomotive engineers, soldiers of the command,
who were delighted evidently to get back at their old calling.  They amused themselves by running
the trains to and fro, creating much confusion, and keeping up such an unearthly screeching
with the whistles that I was on the point of ordering the cars burned.  They finally wearied
of their fun, however, and ran the trains off to the east toward General Ord's column.

The night of the 8th I made my headquarters at a little frame house just south of the station.
I did not sleep at all, nor did anybody else, the entire command being up all night long; indeed,
there had been little rest in the, cavalry for the past eight days.  The necessity of getting
Ord's column up was so obvious now that staff-officer after staff-officer was sent to him and
to General Grant requesting that the infantry be pushed on, for if it could get to the front,
all knew that the rebellion would be ended on the morrow. Merritt, Crook, Custer, and Devin
were present at frequent intervals during the night, and everybody was overjoyed at the prospect
that our weary work was about to end so happily.  Before sun-up General Ord arrived, and informed
me of the approach of his column, it having been marching the whole night.  As he ranked me,
of course I could give him no orders, so after a hasty consultation as to where his troops
should be placed we separated, I riding to the front to overlook my line near Appomattox Court
House, while he went back to urge along his weary troops.

The night before General Lee had held a council with his principal generals, when it was arranged
that in the morning General Gordon should undertake to break through my cavalry, and when I
neared my troops this movement was beginning, a heavy line of infantry bearing down on us from
the direction of the village.  In front of Crook and Mackenzie firing had already begun, so
riding to a slight elevation where a good view of the Confederates could be had, I there came
to the conclusion that it would be unwise to offer more resistance than that necessary to give
Ord time to form, so I directed Merritt to fall back, and in retiring to shift Devin and Custer
to the right so as to make room for Ord, now in the woods to my rear.  Crook, who with his
own and Mackenzie's divisions was on my extreme left covering some by-roads, was ordered to
hold his ground as long as practicable without sacrificing his men, and, if forced to retire,
to contest with obstinacy the enemy's advance.

As already stated, I could not direct General Ord's course, he being my senior, but hastily
galloping back to where he was, at the edge of the timber, I explained to him what was taking
place at the front. Merritt's withdrawal inspired the Confederates, who forthwith began to
press Crook, their line of battle advancing with confidence till it reached the crest whence
I had reconnoitred them.  From this ground they could see Ord's men emerging from the woods,
and the hopelessness of a further attack being plain, the gray lines instinctively halted,
and then began to retire toward a ridge immediately fronting Appomattox Court House, while
Ord, joined on his right by the Fifth Corps, advanced on them over the ground that Merritt
had abandoned.

I now directed my steps toward Merritt, who, having mounted his troopers, had moved them off
to the right, and by the time I reached his headquarters flag he was ready for work, so a move
on the enemy's left was ordered, and every guidon was bent to the front.  As the cavalry marched
along parallel with the Confederate line, and in toward its left, a heavy fire of artillery
opened on us, but this could not check us at such a time, and we soon reached some high ground
about half a mile from the Court House, and from here I could see in the low valley beyond
the village the bivouac undoubtedly of Lee's army.  The troops did not seem to be disposed
in battle order, but on the other side of the bivouac was a line of battle--a heavy rear-guard--confronting,
presumably, General Meade.

I decided to attack at once, and formations were ordered at a trot for a charge by Custer's
and Devin's divisions down the slope leading to the camps.  Custer was soon ready, but Devin's
division being in rear its formation took longer, since he had to shift further to the right;
Devin's preparations were, therefore, but partially completed when an aide-decamp galloped
up to with the word from Custer, "Lee has surrendered; do not charge; the white flag is up."
The enemy perceiving that Custer was forming for attack, had sent the flag out to his front
and stopped the charge just in time.  I at once sent word of the truce to General Ord, and
hearing nothing more from Custer himself, I supposed that he had gone down to the Court House
to join a mounted group of Confederates that I could see near there, so I, too, went toward
them, galloping down a narrow ridge, staff and orderlies following; but we had not got half
way to the Court House when, from a skirt of timber to our right, not more than three hundred
yards distant, a musketry fire was opened on us.  This halted us, when, waving my hat, I called
out to the firing party that we were under a truce, and they were violating it.  This did not
stop them, however, so we hastily took shelter in a ravine so situated as to throw a ridge
between us and the danger.

We traveled in safety down this depression to its mouth, and thence by a gentle ascent approached
the Court House.  I was in advance, followed by a sergeant carrying my battleflag.  When I
got within about a hundred and fifty yards of the enemy's line, which was immediately in front
of the Court House, some of the Confederates leveled their pieces at us, and I again halted.
Their officers kept their men from firing, however, but meanwhile a single-handed contest had
begun behind me, for on looking back I heard a Confederate soldier demanding my battle-flag
from the color-bearer, thinking, no doubt, that we were coming in as prisoners.  The sergeant
had drawn his sabre and was about to cut the man down, but at a word from me he desisted and
carried the flag back to my staff, his assailant quickly realizing that the boot was on the
other leg.

These incidents determined me to remain where I was till the return of a staff-officer whom
I had sent over to demand an explanation from the group of Confederates for which I had been
heading.  He came back in a few minutes with apologies for what had occurred, and informed
me that General Gordon and General Wilcox were the superior officers in the group.  As they
wished me to join them I rode up with my staff, but we had hardly met when in front of Merritt
firing began. At the sound I turned to General Gordon, who seemed embarrassed by the occurrence,
and remarked: "General, your men fired on me as I was coming over here, and undoubtedly they
are treating Merritt and Custer the same way.  We might as well let them fight it out."  He
replied, "There must be some mistake."  I then asked, "Why not send a staff-officer and have
your people cease firing; they are violating the flag." He answered, "I have no staff-officer
to send."  Whereupon I said that I would let him have one of mine, and calling for Lieutenant
Vanderbilt Allen, I directed him to carry General Gordon's orders to General Geary, commanding
a small brigade of South Carolina cavalry, to discontinue firing.  Allen dashed off with the
message and soon delivered it, but was made a prisoner, Geary saying, "I do not care for white
flags: South Carolinians never surrender...."  By this time Merritt's patience being exhausted,
he ordered an attack, and this in short order put an end to General Geary's "last ditch" absurdity,
and extricated Allen from his predicament.

When quiet was restored Gordon remarked: "General Lee asks for a suspension of hostilities
pending the negotiations which he is having with General Grant."  I rejoined: "I have been
constantly informed of the progress of the negotiations, and think it singular that while such
discussions are going on, General Lee should have continued his march and attempted to break
through my lines this morning.  I will entertain no terms except that General Lee shall surrender
to General Grant on his arrival here.  If these terms are not accepted we will renew hostilities."
Gordon replied: "General Lee's army is exhausted.  There is no doubt of his surrender to General
Grant."

It was then that General Ord joined us, and after shaking hands all around, I related the situation
to him, and Gordon went away agreeing to meet us again in half an hour.  When the time was
up he came back accompanied by General Longstreet, who brought with him a despatch, the duplicate
of one that had been sent General Grant through General Meade's lines back on the road over
which Lee had been retreating.

General Longstreet renewed the assurances that already had been given by Gordon, and I sent
Colonel Newhall with the despatch to find General Grant and bring him to the front.  When Newhall
started, everything on our side of the Appomattox Court House was quiet, for inevitable surrender
was at hand, but Longstreet feared that Meade, in ignorance of the new conditions on my front
might attack the Confederate rearguard.  To prevent this I offered to send Colonel J. W. Forsyth
through the enemy's lines to let Meade know of my agreement, for he too was suspicious that
by a renewed correspondence Lee was endeavoring to gain time for escape.  My offer being accepted,
Forsyth set out accompanied by Colonel Fairfax, of Longstreet's staff, and had no difficulty
in accomplishing his mission.

About five or six miles from Appomattox, on the road toward Prospect Station near its intersection
with the Walker's Church road, my adjutant-general, Colonel Newhall, met General Grant, he
having started from north of the Appomattox River for my front the morning of April 9, in consequence
of the following despatches which had been sent him the night before, after we had captured
Appomattox Station and established a line intercepting Lee:

"CAVALRY HEADQUARTERS, April 8, 1865--9:20 P. M.

"LIEUTENANT-GENERAL U. S. GRANT, "Commanding Armies of the U.  S.

"General: I marched early this morning from Buffalo Creek and Prospect Station on Appomattox
Station, where my scouts had reported trains of cars with supplies for Lee's army.  A short
time before dark General Custer, who had the advance, made a dash at the station, capturing
four trains of supplies with locomotives.  One of the trains was burned and the others were
run back toward Farmville for security.  Custer then pushed on toward Appomattox Court House,
driving the enemy--who kept up a heavy fire of artillery--charging them repeatedly and capturing,
as far as reported, twenty-five pieces of artillery and a number of prisoners and wagons. 
The First Cavalry Division supported him on the right.  A reconnoissance sent across the Appomattox
reports the enemy moving on the Cumberland road to Appomattox Station, where they expect to
get supplies.  Custer is still pushing on.  If General Gibbon and the Fifth Corps can get up
to-night, we will perhaps finish the job in the morning.  I do not think Lee means to surrender
until compelled to do so.

"P. H. SHERIDAN, Major-General."

"HEADQUARTERS CAVALRY, April 8, 1865--9:40 p.m.

"LIEUTENANT-GENERAL U. S. GRANT. "Commanding Armies U. S.

"GENERAL: Since writing the accompanying despatch, General Custer reports that his command
has captured in all thirty-five pieces of artillery, one thousand prisoners--including one
general officer--and from one hundred and fifty to two hundred wagons.

"P. H. SHERIDAN, Major-General."

In attempting to conduct the lieutenant-general and staff back by a short route, Newhall lost
his bearings for a time, inclining in toward the enemy's lines too far, but regained the proper
direction without serious loss of time.  General Grant arrived about 1 o'clock in the afternoon,
Ord and I, dismounted, meeting him at the edge of the town, or crossroads, for it was little
more.  He remaining mounted, spoke first to me, saying simply,

"How are you, Sheridan?"  I assured him with thanks that I was "first-rate," when, pointing
toward the village, he asked, "Is General Lee up there?" and I replied: "There is his army
down in that valley, and he himself is over in that house (designating McLean's house) waiting
to surrender to you."  The General then said, "Come, let us go over," this last remark being
addressed to both Ord and me. We two then mounted and joined him, while our staff-officers
followed, intermingling with those of the general-in-chief as the cavalcade took its way to
McLean's house near by, and where General Lee had arrived some time before, in consequence
of a message from General Grant consenting to the interview asked for by Lee through Meade's
front that morning--the consent having been carried by Colonel Babcock.

When I entered McLean's house General Lee was standing, as was also his military secretary,
Colonel Marshall, his only staff-officer present.  General Lee was dressed in a new uniform
and wore a handsome sword.  His tall, commanding form thus set off contrasted strongly with
the short figure of General Grant, clothed as he was in a soiled suit, without sword or other
insignia of his position except a pair of dingy shoulder-straps.  After being presented, Ord
and I, and nearly all of General Grant's staff, withdrew to await the agreement as to terms,
and in a little while Colonel Babcock came to the door and said, "The surrender had been made;
you can come in again."

When we re-entered General Grant was writing; and General Lee, having in his hand two despatches,
which I that morning requested might be returned, as I had no copies of them, addressed me
with the remark: "I am sorry.  It is probable that my cavalry at that point of the line did
not fully understand the agreement." These despatches had been sent in the forenoon, after
the fighting had been stopped, notifying General Lee that some of his cavalry in front of Crook
was violating the suspension of hostilities by withdrawing.  About 3 o'clock in the afternoon
the terms of surrender were written out and accepted, and General Lee left the house, as he
departed cordially shaking hands with General Grant.  A moment later he mounted his chunky
gray horse, and lifting his hat as he passed out of the yard, rode off toward his army, his
arrival there being announced to us by cheering, which, as it progressed, varying in loudness,
told he was riding through the bivouac of the Army of Northern Virginia.

The surrender of General Lee practically ended the war of the rebellion.  For four years his
army had been the main-stay of the Confederacy; and the marked ability with which he directed
its operations is evidenced both by his frequent successes and the length of time he kept up
the contest.  Indeed, it may be said that till General Grant was matched against him, he never
met an opponent he did not vanquish, for while it is true that defeat was inflicted on the
Confederates at Antietam and Gettysburg, yet the fruits of these victories were not gathered,
for after each of these battles Lee was left unmolested till he had a chance to recuperate.

The assignment of General Grant to the command of the Union armies in the winter of 1863-64
gave presage of success from the start, for his eminent abilities had already been proved,
and besides, he was a tower of strength to the Government, because he had the confidence of
the people.  They knew that henceforth systematic direction would be given to our armies in
every section of the vast territory over which active operations were being prosecuted, and
further, that this coherence, this harmony of plan, was the one thing needed to end the war,
for in the three preceding years there had been illustrated most lamentable effects of the
absence of system.  From the moment he set our armies in motion simultaneously, in the spring
of 1864, it could be seen that we should be victorious ultimately, for though on different
lines we were checked now and then, yet we were harassing the Confederacy at so many vital
points that plainly it must yield to our blows.  Against Lee's army, the forefront of the Confederacy,
Grant pitted himself; and it may be said that the Confederate commander was now, for the first
time, overmatched, for against all his devices--the products of a mind fertile in defense--General
Grant brought to bear not only the wealth of expedient which had hitherto distinguished him,
but also an imperturbable tenacity, particularly in the Wilderness and on the march to the
James, without which the almost insurmountable obstacles of that campaign could not have been
overcome.  During it and in the siege of Petersburg he met with many disappointments--on several
occasions the shortcomings of generals, when at the point of success, leading to wretched failures.
But so far as he was concerned, the only apparent effect of these discomfitures was to make
him all the more determined to discharge successfully the stupendous trust committed to his
care, and to bring into play the manifold resources of his well ordered military mind. He guided
every subordinate then, and in the last days of the rebellion, with a fund of common sense
and superiority of intellect, which have left an impress so distinct as to exhibit his great
personality.  When his military history is analyzed after the lapse of years, it will show,
even more clearly than now, that during these as well as in his previous campaigns he was the
steadfast Centre about and on which everything else turned.

CHAPTER IX.

ORDERED TO GREENSBORO', N. C.--MARCH TO THE DAN RIVER--ASSIGNED TO THE COMMAND WEST OF THE
MISSISSIPPI--LEAVING WASHINGTON--FLIGHT OF GENERAL EARLY--MAXIMILIAN--MAKING DEMONSTRATIONS
ON THE UPPER RIO GRANDE--CONFEDERATES JOIN MAXIMILIAN--THE FRENCH INVASION OF MEXICO AND ITS
RELATIONS TO THE REBELLION--ASSISTING THE LIBERALS --RESTORATION OF THE REPUBLIC.

The surrender at Appomattox put a stop to all military operations on the part of General Grant's
forces, and the morning of April 10 my cavalry began its march to Petersburg, the men anticipating
that they would soon be mustered out and returned to their homes.  At Nottoway Court House
I heard of the assassination of the President.  The first news came to us the night after the
dastardly deed, the telegraph operator having taken it from the wires while in transmission
to General Meade.  The despatch ran that Mr. Lincoln had been, shot at 10 o'clock that morning
at Willard's Hotel, but as I could conceive of nothing to take the President there I set the
story down as a canard, and went to bed without giving it further thought.  Next morning, however,
an official telegram confirmed the fact of the assassination, though eliminating the distorted
circumstances that had been communicated the night before.

When we reached Petersburg my column was halted, and instructions given me to march the cavalry
and the Sixth Corps to Greensboro', North Carolina, for the purpose of aiding General Sherman
(the surrender of General Johnston having not yet been effected), so I made the necessary preparations
and moved on the 24th of April, arriving at South Boston, on the Dan River, the 28th, the Sixth
Corps having reached Danville meanwhile.  At South Boston I received a despatch from General
Halleck, who immediately after Lee's surrender had been assigned to command at Richmond, informing
me that General Johnston had been brought to terms.  The necessity for going farther south
being thus obviated we retraced our steps to Petersburg, from which place I proceeded by steamer
to Washington, leaving, the cavalry to be marched thither by easy stages.

The day after my arrival in Washington an important order was sent me, accompanied by the following
letter of instructions, transferring me to a new field of operations:

"HEADQUARTERS ARMIES OF THE UNITED STATES. "Washington, D. C., May 17, 1865.

"GENERAL: Under the orders relieving you from the command of the Middle Military Division and
assigning you to command west of the Mississippi, you will proceed without delay to the West
to arrange all preliminaries for your new field of duties.

"Your duty is to restore Texas, and that part of Louisiana held by the enemy, to the Union
in the shortest practicable time, in a way most effectual for securing permanent peace.

"To do this, you will be given all the troops that can be spared by Major-General Canby, probably
twenty-five thousand men of all arms; the troops with Major-General J. J. Reynolds, in Arkansas,
say twelve thousand, Reynolds to command; the Fourth Army Corps, now at Nashville, Tennessee,
awaiting orders; and the Twenty-Fifth Army Corps, now at City Point, Virginia, ready to embark.

"I do not wish to trammel you with instructions; I will state, however, that if Smith holds
out, without even an ostensible government to receive orders from or to report to, he and his
men are not entitled to the considerations due to an acknowledged belligerent.  Theirs are
the conditions of outlaws, making war against the only Government having an existence over
the territory where war is now being waged.

"You may notify the rebel commander west of the Mississippi--holding intercourse with him in
person, or through such officers of the rank of major-general as you may select--that he will
be allowed to surrender all his forces on the same terms as were accorded to Lee and Johnston.
If he accedes, proceed to garrison the Red River as high up as Shreveport, the seaboard at
Galveston, Malagorda Bay, Corpus Christi, and mouth of the Rio Grande.

"Place a strong force on the Rio Grande, holding it at least to a point opposite Camargo, and
above that if supplies can be procured.

"In case of an active campaign (a hostile one) I think a heavy force should be put on the Rio
Grande as a first preliminary.  Troops for this might be started at once.  The Twenty-Fifth
Corps is now available, and to it should be added a force of white troops, say those now under
Major-General Steele.

"To be clear on this last point, I think the Rio Grande should be strongly held, whether the
forces in Texas surrender or not, and that no time should be lost in getting troops there.
If war is to be made, they will be in the right place; if Kirby Smith surrenders, they will
be on the line which is to be strongly garrisoned.

"Should any force be necessary other than those designated, they can be had by calling for
them on Army Headquarters.

"U. S. GRANT, "Lieutenant-General.

"To MAJOR-GENERAL P. H. SHERIDAN, "United States Army."

On receipt of these instructions I called at once on General Grant, to see if they were to
be considered so pressing as to preclude my remaining in Washington till after the Grand Review,
which was fixed for the 23d and 24th of May, for naturally I had a strong desire to head my
command on that great occasion.  But the General told me that it was absolutely necessary to
go at once to force the surrender of the Confederates under Kirby Smith.  He also told me that
the States lately in rebellion would be embraced in two or three military departments, the
commanders of which would control civil affairs until Congress took action about restoring
them to the Union, since that course would not only be economical and simple, but would give
the Southern people confidence, and encourage them to go to work, instead of distracting them
with politics.

