There has been lately form’d here a Society to Reward and Encourage Merit, with respect to
the Liberal Arts and Sciences. It is to be composed of 21 Members, of which Number there are
already 19 chosen: That is to say, The Dukes of Beaufort and Ormond; the Earls of Arran and
Orrory; the Lords Duplin, Son-in-Law of the Great Treasurer; Harley, Son of the said Treasurer;
Lansdown, Secretary of War; Masham and Bathurst; Sir W. Windham; Mr. St. John, Secretary of
State; Harcourt, Son of the Lord Keeper; and Raymond, Sollicitor-General: The Colonels Hill
and Desney; Swift, Doctor of Divinity; Prior, Arbuthnott the Queen’s Physician; and Friend,
Physician to the Duke of Ormond. These Gentlemen who have deferr’d naming the other Two Members
till such time as they think fit, do now assemble every Thursday, and have already given Rewards
to some Authors, whose Works have been approved of, and have recommended Others to the Ministers
of State, that they may have some Establishment.

This Fact being thus fairly related, the Reader is desired to observe, That it was in the Year
1629, under the single Ministry of Cardinal Richlieu, when a Society of such great Wits was
first form’d at Paris; which was soon after establish’d, by an Edict of the King, with the
Style and Title of the French Academy. And it is left to be determin’d by all Judicious Readers,
whether this British Seminary of Wit and Learning is not a Copy of that Renown’d Society in
France; and whether the Design and Model of it has not been approved of there, since our happy
Correspondence with that Ingenious Nation.

The French Society consisted only at their first Meeting, of Seven or Eight Men of Letters,
who met together to talk about their Books and Writings: And it was some time before Monsieur
Servien, Secretary of State, and other Persons, distinguish’d by their Condition, as well as
by their Merit, were added to the Company. But here we see the British Society, at the very
first Formation of it, is compos’d of no less than Two Dukes, not only capable of Rewarding,
but of Judging, as well as of Writing: And likewise of Two Earls; Five Lords; One Knight; One
Secretary of State; Two Colonels of Foot, and One Squire: Not to mention the Lawyer; the Doctors;
the Religious Priest; and the Poet. What therefore may we not expect from the future Progress
of this Society, which sets out with so much greater Lustre, than that of its Original at Paris;
so famous now all over Europe.

That this is the chief Design of our new Erected Society, is plainly insinuated by the Author
of the Letter before mentioned; for which the Reader may please to see his own Words: If Things
go on, says he, at the present Rate, (that is, if our Language be not corrected, improved,
and ascertain’d,) all I can promise your Lordship, is, That about Two hundred Years hence some
painful Compiler, who will be at the Trouble of studying old Language, may inform the World,
that in the Reign of +Queen ANNE+, +ROBERT Earl of OXFORD, a very Wise and Excellent Man+,
was made +High Treasurer+, and saved his Countrey. [Mark those last Words, pray, as you go
along.] Thus much he may be able to pick out, and willing to transfer into his New History;
but the rest of your Character which I, or any other Writer, may value our selves by drawing:
And the Particular Account of the +great+ Things, done under your Ministry, for which you are
already so Celebrated in +most+ Parts of +Europe+, will probably be dropt. So far that Author:
But I cannot help differing with him in one Particular: For I am firmly of Opinion, that altho
our Language should happen not to be improved or ascertain’d, yet the great Things done by
that very Wise and Excellent Man, will not so easily be forgotten; nor the rest of his Character
be dropt, for which he is already so celebrated in most Parts of +Europe+.

Besides, as there seems to be an Exact Agreement between the intended Protector of this Society,
and that of the French Academy in its Infancy, there can be no Doubt but the great Work will
be carried on after much the same Manner, and under the same Statutes and Regulations. And
it appears in Monsieur Pelisson’s History of the French Academy, That every Member of it, both
Present and Future, Friend or Foe, was oblig’d in Gratitude to their Protector, to revere his
Virtue and his Memory. The British Academicians being therefore under the same Obligation,
how is it possible that their Protector’s Vertue or Memory should ever be forgotten?

And there is one considerable Advantage, which our New Academy will have above the French.
For it appears by the History just mention’d, that after the French King had given his Consent,
that his dear Cousin should be Chief of the Academy, the Parliament could not for a long while
be brought to confirm the Patent. And Monsieur Pelisson gives the Reasons of it. Cardinal +Richlieu+,
says he, having carried the +Royal Authority+ a great deal higher than any one had done before
him; tho belov’d by some, was envy’d by others, hated and detested by many, fear’d and dreaded
by all. His Creatures, continues he, talk’d of this Design with excessive Encomiums. Never,
said they, were the past Ages possest of so much Eloquence as ours is like to be. We shall
out-do all that went before us, and all that shall come after. And the greatest Share of the
Glory will redound to the Academy and the Cardinal. Others, on the contrary, treated this Design
as ridiculous. They accused the Academy as aiming to give Laws to Things not susceptible of
them, and were perpetually falling upon them with Jests and Satyrs. Distrustful People could
not tell but there might be a Snake in the Grass; and were afraid the establishing this Society
would be a new Support of his Domination, that they were only his Pensioners, maintain’d by
him to justify all his Actions, and make Observations on those of others. These were the Difficulties
in France: But our New Society need fear no such Opposition as the Frenchmen found from their
Parliament of Paris. Our Parl----t will most certainly be as forward to pass an Act in Favour
of them and their Protector, as they have been to do so many great Things already for him and
the Nation, and even to pass a Vote in his Praise. Besides, there is no Body can pretend that
he has ever carried the Royal Authority higher than any one had done before him; nor can it
be imagin’d that he has a thousandth Part of the Enemies that Cardinal Richlieu had: And I
am fully persuaded, that all Things being consider’d, both at Home and Abroad, there is not
a Man in the World that envies him. And tho he has been suspected to maintain Pensioners to
justify his own Actions, and make Observations on those of others; yet, whoever will look carefully
over the List of the Members, must needs acquit him of that Calumny, and confess, that he who
pick’d out such a Set of Wits and Patrons, could have no such base Thoughts in his Head.

When the French Academy had settled their Statutes, the next Thing they did was to get a Seal.
And what was the Impression? Why, only their Protectors Picture; not engrav’d like a Seneca’s
Head, but drawn at length with a modest Word on the Reverse. To Immortality. Something like
this may be very easily done here. But I am not for putting on the Reverse, the Bill for the
Protestant Succession; tho it may be seen in the Protector’s Hand at Sir G. Kneller’s: For
that is too gross, even for a common Picture. But what think you of his own Head on one Side
and Twelve Lords on the Reverse? Or since all other Societies have taken their Motto’s from
the Old World, suppose he fetch’d one from the New; and clapp’d his own Face upon the Frontispiece,
with this Word on the Reverse, written in Cyphers, THE SOUTH-SEA.

I have but one or two Objections to the Statutes in France, which I cannot get over. One is,
they must not meddle with Matters of Religion. This might have very ill Consequences, and hinder
their Top Wit from shewing his Talents: I mean that Orthodox Divine, who it is well known was
never half so witty upon any other Subject, as upon that of Religion. Another Law of theirs
that gives me Offence, is, The Law by which they are oblig’d to judge of no-body’s Works but
their own. For perhaps our Academy may not be in a Humour to write any Thing these Hundred
Years, except a Trifle now and then, as an Examiner, a Conduct, a John Bull, or so. All which
Works are allowable, because the French Statute says, Political Matters may be treated of conformably
to the Authority of the State.

There was one Rule more among the French Academicians, that will never do in England which
is their forbidding the Academy’s Certificate to be printed before the Writings of the Members,
and allowing ’em only to put, Par un tel de l’Academie Francoise; As if one should say, By
such a Person of the +British+ Academy. This would make mad Work here: Every little Grubstreet
Scribler would presently be publishing his Trash, with the stolen Title of My Lord such a one,
or Brigadier such a one, of the +British+ Academy. And how should we be able to distinguish
the Right from the Wrong, unless their License be printed before in Form, like a Privilege
Royal, To our Trusty and Well-beloved +Abel Roper+, of +London+, Bookseller.

Having just mention’d Abel, it puts me in Mind of a certain Officer belonging to the French
Academy, call’d a Library-Keeper. This was given to one Camusat, the most Eminent Bookseller
then in Paris: And I presume no body will say that Trusty Abel is not the fittest Man in England
for that Office: He being supposed not only to have printed, but even to have father’d some
considerable Works of the most Elegant of all our Academicians.

There’s nothing else very remarkable in the Laws of the French Academy, except their forbidding
any Member to write in their Defence, which it is probable will be thought worth observing
here. For if our Society should pretend to answer every impertinent Thing that will be written
against them, they would be finely set to Work. If therefore they should happen to be daily
pelted at, the shortest way will be to despise their Opponents, and to consider themselves
as Persons above the Reach of Malice; incorporated under a glorious Protector for some good
End or other; and in daily Expectation of having a Charter and an Act of Parliament to back
them; and of being made Wits by the Laws of the Land.

