[168] Silver--was paid with brass--Agentum aere solutum est. Thus a sestertius, which was of
silver, and was worth four asses, was paid with one as, which was of brass; or the fourth part
only of the debt was paid. See Plin. H. N. xxxiii. 3; and Velleius Paterculus, ii. 23; who
says, quadrantem solvi, that a quarter of their debts were paid by the debtors, by a law of
Valerius Flaccus, when he became consul on the death of Marius.

[169] Often--have the commonalty--seceded, etc.--"This happened three times: 1. To the Mons
Sacer, on account of debt; Liv. ii. 32. 2. To the Aventine, and thence to the Mons Sacer, through
the tyranny of Appius Claudius, the decemvir; Liv. iii. 50. 3. To the Janiculum, on account
of debt; Liv. Epist. xi." Bernouf.

[170] XXXIV. That such had always been the kindness, etc.--Ea, mansuetudine atque misericordia
senatum populumque Romanum, semper fuisse. "That the senate, etc., had always been of such
kindness." I have deserted the Latin for the English idiom.

[171] XXXV. The commencement of this letter is different in different editions. In Havercamp
it stands thus: Egregiatua fides, re cognita, grata mihi, magnis in meis periculis, fiduciam
commendationi meae tribuit. Cortius corrected it as follows: Egregia tua fides, re cognita,
gratam in magnis periculis fiduciam commendationi meae tribuit. Cortius's reading has been
adopted by Kritzius, Bernouf, and most other editors. Gerlach and Dietsch have recalled the
old text. That Cortius's is the better; few will deny; for it can hardly be supposed that Sallust
used mihi, meis, and meae in such close succession. Some, however, as Rupertus and Gerlach,
defend Havercamp's text, by asserting, from the phrase earum exemplam infra scriptum, that
this is a true copy of the letter, and that the style is, therefore, not Sallust's, but Catiline's.
But such an opinion is sufficiently refuted by Cortius, whose remarks I will transcribe: "Rupertus,"
says he, "quod in promptu erat, Catilinae culpam tribuit, qui non eo, quo Crispus, stilo scripserit.
Sed cur oratio ejus tam apta et composita supra, c. 20 refertur? At, inquis, hic ipsum litterarum
exemplum exhibetur. At vide mihi exemplum litterarum Lentuli, c. 44; et lege Ciceronem, qui
idem exhibet, et senties sensum magis quam verba referri. Quare inanis haec quidem excusatio."
Yet it is not to be denied that grata mihi is the reading of all the manuscripts.

[172] Known--by experience.--Re cognita. "Cognita" be it observed, tironum gratia, is the nominative
case. "Catiline had experienced the friendship of Catulus in his affair with Fabia Terentia;
for it was by his means that he escaped when he was brought to trial, as is related by Orosius."
Bernouf.

[173] Recommendation--Commendationi. His recommendation of his affairs, and of Orestilla, to
the care of Catulus.

[174] Formal defense--Defensionem. Opposed to satisfactionem, which follows, and which means
a private apology or explanation. "Defensio, a defense, was properly a statement or speech
to be made against an adversary, or before judges; satisfactio was rather an excuse or apology
made to a friend, or any other person, in a private communication." Cortius.

[175] Though conscious of no guilt--Ex nulla conscientia de culpa. This phrase is explained
by Cortius as equivalent to "Propter conscientam denulla culpa," or "inasmuch as I am conscious
of no fault." "De culpa, he adds, is the same as culpae; so in the ii. Epist. to Caesar, c.
1: Neque de futuro quisquam satix callidus; and c. 9: de illis potissimum jactura fit."

[176] To make no formal defense--to offer you some explanation --Defensionem--parare; satisfactionem--proponere.
"Parare," says Cortius, "is applied to a defense which might require some study and premeditation;
proponere to such a statement as it was easy to make at once".

[177] On my word of honor--Me dius fidius, sc. juvet. So may the god of faith help me, as I
speak truth. But who is the god of faith? Dius, say some, is the same as Deus (Plautus has
Deus fidius, Asin i. 1, 18); and the god here meant is probably Jupiter (sub dio being equivalent
to sub Jove); so that Dius fidius (fidius being an adjective from fides) will be the [Greek:
Zeus pistios] of the Greeks. "Me dius fidius" will therefore be, "May Jupiter help me!" This
is the mode of explication adopted by Gerlach, Bernouf, and Dietsch. Others, with Festus (sub
voce Medius fidius) make fidius equivalent to filius, because the ancients, according to Festus,
often used D for L, and dius fidius will then be the same as [Greek: Dios] or Jovis filius,
or Hercules, and medius fidius will be the same as mehercules or mehercule. Varro de L. L.
(v. 10, ed. Sprengel) mentions a certain Aelius who was of this opinion. Against this derivation
there is the quantity of fidius, of which the first syllable is short: Quaerebam Nonas Sanco
fidone referrem, Ov. Fast. vi. 213. But if we consider dius the same as deus, we may as well
consider dius fidius to be the god Hercules as the god Jupiter, and may thus make medius fidius
identical with mehercules, as it probably is. "Tertullian, de Idol. 20, says that medius fidius
is a form of swearing by Hercules." Schiller's Lex. sub Fidius. This point will be made tolerably
clear if we consider (with Varro, v. 10, and Ovid, loc. cit.) Dius Fidius to be the same with
the Sabine Sancus, or Semo Sancus, and Semo Sancus to be the same with Hercules.

[178] You may receive as true--Veram licet cognoscas. Some editions, before that of Cortius,
have quae--licet vera mecum recognoscas; which was adopted from a quotation of Servius ad Aen.
iv. 204. But twenty of the best MSS., according to Certius, have veram licet cognoscas.

[179] Robbed of the fruit of my labor and exertion--Fructu laboris industriaeque meae privatus.
"The honors which he sought he elegantly calls the fruit of his labor, because the one is obtained
by the other." Cortius.

[180] Post of honor due to me--Statum dignitatis. The consulship.

[181] On my own security--Meis nominibus. "He uses the plural," says Herzogius, "because he
had not borrowed once only, or from one person, but oftentimes, and from many." No other critic
attempts to explain this point. For alienis nominibus, which follows, being in the plural,
there is very good reason. My translation is in conformity with Bernouf's comment.

[182] Proscribed--Alienatum. "Repulsed from all hope of the consulship." Bernouf.

[183] Adopted a course--Spes--secutus sum. "Spem sequi is a phrase often used when the direction
of the mind to any thing, action, or course of conduct, and the subsequent election and adoption
of what appears advantageous, is signified." Cortius.

[184] Protection--Fidei.

[185] Intreating you, by your love for your own children, to defend her from injury--Eam ab
injuria defendas, per liberos tuos rogatus. "Defend her from injury, being intreated [to do
so] by [or for the sake of] your own children."

[186] XXXVI. In the neighborhood of Arretium--In agro Arretino. Havercamp, and many of the
old editions, have Reatino; "but," says Cortius, "if Catiline went the direct road to Faesulae,
as is rendered extremely probable by his pretense that he was going to Marseilles, and by the
assertion of Cicero, made the day after his departure, that he was on his way to join Manlius,
we must certainly read Arretino." Arretium (now Arezzo) lay in his road to Faesulae; Reate
was many miles out of it.

[187] In an extremely deplorable condition--Multo maxime miserabile. Multe is added to superlatives,
like longe. So c. 52, multo pulcherrimam eam nos haberemus. Cortius gives several other instances.

[188] Notwithstanding the two decrees of the senate--Duobus senati decretis. I have translated
it "the two decrees," with Rose. One of the two was that respecting the rewards mentioned in
c. 30; the other was that spoken of in c. 36., allowing the followers of Catiline to lay down
their arms before a certain day.

[189] XXXVII. Endeavor to exalt the factious--Malos extollunt. They strive to elevate into
office those who resemble themselves.

[190] Poverty does not easily suffer loss--Egestas facile habetur sine damna He that has nothing,
has nothing to lose. Petron. Sat., c. 119: Inops audacia tuta est.

[191] Had become disaffected--Praeceps abierat. Had grown demoralized, sunk in corruption,
and ready to join in any plots against the state. So Sallust says of Sempronia, praeceps abierat,
c. 25.

[192] In the first place--Primum omnium. "These words refer, not to item and postremo in the
same sentence, but to deinde at the commencement of the next." Bernouf.

[193] Civil rights had been curtailed--Jus libertatis imminutum erat. "Sylla, by one of his
laws, had rendered the children of proscribed persons incapable of holding any public office;
a law unjust, indeed, but which, having been established and acted upon for more than twenty
years, could not be rescinded without inconvenience to the government. Cicero, accordingly,
opposed the attempts which were made, in his consulship, to remove this restriction, as he
himself states in his Oration against Piso, c. 2." Bernouf. See Vell. Patere., ii., 28; Plutarch,
Vit. Syll.; Quintil., xi. 1, where a fragment of Cicero's speech, De Proscriptorum Liberis,
is preserved. This law of Sylla was at length abrogated by Julius Caesar, Suet. J. Caes. 41;
Plutarch Vit. Caes.; Dio Cass., xli. 18.

[194] This was an evil--to the extent to which it now prevailed--Id
adeo malum multos post annos in civitatem reverterat. "Adeo, says
Cortius, "in particula elegantissima" Allen makes it equivalent to
 eo usque.

[195] XXXVIII. The powers of the tribunes--had been fully restored --Tribunicia potestas restituta.
Before the time of Sylla, the power of the tribunes had grown immoderate, but Sylla diminished
and almost annihilated it, by taking from them the privileges of holding any other magistracy
after the tribunate, of publicly addressing the people, of proposing laws, and of listening
to appeals. But in the consulship of Cotta, A.U.C. 679, the first of these privileges had been
restored; and in that of Pompey and Crassus, A.U.C. 683, the tribunes were reinstated in all
their former powers.

[196] Having obtained that high office--Summam potestatem nacti. Cortius thinks these words
spurious.

[197] XXXIX. Free from harm--Innoxii. In a passive sense.

[198] Overawing others--with threats of impeachment--Caeteros judiciis terrere. "Accusationibus
et judiciorum periculis." Bernouf.

[199] His father ordered to be put to death--Parens necari jussit. "His father put him to death,
not by order of the consuls, but by his own private authority; nor was he the only one who,
at the same period, exercised similar power." Dion. Cass., lib. xxxvii. The father observed
on the occasion, that, "he had begotten him, not for Catiline against his country, but for
his country against Catiline". Val. Max., v.8. The Roman laws allowed fathers absolute control
over the lives of their children.

[200] XL. Certain deputies of the Allobroges--Legatos Allobrogum. Plutarch, in his Life of
Cicero, says that there were then at Rome two deputies from this Gallic nation, sent to complain
of oppression on the part of the Roman governors.

[201] As Brutus was then absent from Borne--Nam tum Brutus ab Roma, aberat. From this remark,
say Zanchius and Omnibonus, it is evident that Brutus was not privy to the conspiracy. "What
sort of woman Sempronia was, has been told in c. 25. Some have thought that she was the wife
of Decimus Brutus; but since Sallust speaks of her as being in the decay of her beauty at the
time of the conspiracy, and since Brutus, as may be seen in Caesar (B. G. vii., sub fin.),
was then very young, it is probable that she had only an illicit connection with him, but had
gained such an ascendency over his affections, by her arts of seduction, as to induce him to
make her his mistress, and to allow her to reside in his house." Beauzee. I have, however,
followed those who think that Brutus was the husband of Sempronia. Sallust (c. 24), speaking
of the woman, of whom Sempronia was one, says that Catiline credebat posse--viros earum vel
adjungere sibi, vel interficere. The truth, on such a point, is of little importance.

[202] XLI. To be expected from victory--In spe victoriae.

[203] Certain rewards--Certa praemia. "Offered by the senate to those who should give information
of the conspiracy. See c. 30." Kuhnhardt.

[204] Quintus Fabius Sanga--"A descendent of that Fabius who, for having subdued the Allobroges,
was surnamed Allobrogicus." Bernouf. Whole states often chose patrons as well as individuals.

[205] XLII. There were commotions--Motus erat. "Motus is also used by Cicero and Livy in the
singular number for seditiones and tumultus. No change is therefore to be made in the text."
Gerlach. "Motus bellicos intelligit, tumultus; ut Flor., iii. 13." Cortius.

[206] Having brought several to trial--Complures--caussa cognita. "Caussum cognoscere is the
legal phrase for examining as to the authors and causes of any crime." Dietsch.

[207] Caius Muraena in Further Gaul--In Ulteriore Gallia C. Muraena. All the editions, previous
to that of Cortius, have in citeriore Gallia. "But C. Muraena," says the critic, "commanded
in Gallia Transalpina, or Ulterior Gaul, as appears from Cic. pro Muraena, c. 41. To attribute
such an error to a lapse or memory in Sallust, would be absurd. I have, therefore, confidently
altered citeriore into ulteriore." The praise of having first discovered the error, however,
is due, not to Cortius, but to Felicius Durantinus, a friend of Rivius, in whose note on the
passage his discovery is recorded.

[208] XLIII. The excellent consul--Optimo consuli. With the exception of the slight commendation
bestowed on his speech, luculentam atque utilem reipublicae, c. 31, this is the only epithet
of praise that Sallust bestows on the consul throughout his narrative. That it could be regarded
only as frigid eulogy, is apparent from a passage in one of Cicero's letters to Atticus (xii.
21), in which he speaks of the same epithet having been applied to him by Brutus: "Brutus thinks
that he pays me a great compliment when he calls me an excellent consul (optimum consulem);
but what enemy could speak more coldly of me?"

[209] Twelve places of the city, convenient for their purpose-- Duodecim--opportuna loca. Plutarch,
in his Life of Cicero, says a hundred places. Few narratives lose by repetition.

[210] In order that, during the consequent tumult--Quo tumultu. "It is best," says Dietsch,
"to take quo as the particula finalis (to the end that), and tumultu as the ablative of the
instrument".

[211] Delay--Dies prolatando. By putting off from day to day.

[212] XLIV. Soon to visit their country--Semet eo brevi venturum. "It is plain that the adverb
relates to what precedes (ad cives); and that Cassius expresses an intention to set out for
Gaul." Dietsch.

[213] Remember that you are a man--Memineris te virum. Remember that you are a man, and ought
to act as one. Cicero, in repeating this letter from memory (Orat. in Cat., iii. 5), gives
the phrase, Cura ut vir sis.

[214] XLV. The praetors--Praetoribus urbanis, the praetors of the city.

[215] The Milvian Bridge--Ponte Mulvio. Now Ponte Molle.

[216] Of the object with which they were sent--Rem--cujus gratia mittebantur.

[217] From each side of the bridge--Utrinque. "Utrinque," observes Cortius, "glossae MSS. exponunt
ex utraque parte pontis," and there is little doubt that the exposition is correct. No translator,
however, before myself, has availed himself of it.

[218] XLVI. The box with the letters--Scrinium cum literis. Litterae may be rendered either
letter or letters. There is no mention made previously of more letters than that of Lentulus
to Catiline, c. 44. But as it is not likely that the deputies carried a box to convey only
one letter, I have followed other translators by putting the word in the plural. The oath of
the conspirators, too, which was a written document, was probably in the box.

[219] XLVII. His letter--Litteris. His own letter to Catiline, c. 44. So praeter litteras a
little below.

[220] What object he had had in view, etc.--Quid, aut qua de causa, consilli habuisset. What
design he had entertained, and from what motive he had entertained it.

[221] To prevaricate.--Fingere alia. "To pretend other things than what had reference to the
conspiracy." Bernouf.

[222] On the security of the public faith--Fide publica. "Cicero pledged to him the public
faith, with the consent of the senate; or engaged, in the name of the republic, that his life
should be spared, if he would but speak the truth." Bernouf.

[223] That Cinna and Sylla had ruled already--Cinnam atque Syllam antea. "Had ruled," or something
similar, must be supplied. Cinna had been the means of recalling Marius from Africa, in conjunction
with whom he domineered over the city, and made it a scene of bloodshed and desolation.

[224] Their seals--Signa sua. "Leurs cachets, leurs sceaux." Bernouf. The Romans tied their
letters round with a string, the knot of which they covered with wax, and impressed with a
seal. To open the letter it was necessary to cut the string: "nos linum incidimus." Cic. Or.
in Cat. iii. 5. See also C. Nep. Panc. 4, and Adam's Roman Antiquities. The seal of Lentulus
had on it a likeness of one of his ancestors; see Cicero, loc. cit.

[225] In private custody--In liberis custodiis. Literally, in "free custody," but "private
custody" conveys a better notion of the arrangement to the mind of the English reader. It was
called free because the persons in custody were not confined in prison. Plutarch calls it [Greek:
adeomon phylakin] as also Dion., cap. lviii. 3. See Tacit. Ann. vi. 8. It was adopted in the
case of persons of rank and consideration.

[226] XLVIII. If the public faith were pledged to him--Si fides publica data, esset. See c. 47.

[227] And to facilitate the escape of those in custody--Et illi facilius e periculo eriperentur.

[228] A man of such power--Tanta vis hominis. So great power of the man.

[229] Liberty of speaking--Potestatem. "Potestatem loquendi." Cyprianus Popma. As it did not
appear that he spoke the truth, the pledge which the senate had given him, on condition that
he spoke the truth, went for nothing; he was not allowed to continue his evidence, and was
sent to prison.

[230] As was his custom--More suo. Plutarch, in his Life of Crassus, relates that frequently
when Pompey, Caesar, and Cicero, had refused to undertake the defense of certain persons, as
being unworthy of their support, Crassus would plead in their behalf; and that he thus gained
great popularity among the common people.

[231] XLIX. Piso, as having been attacked by him, when he was on, etc.--Piso oppugnatus in
judicio repetundarum propter cujusdam Transpadani supplicium injustum. Such is the reading
and punctuation of Cortius. Some editions insert pecuniarum before repetundarum, and some a
comma after it. I have interpreted the passage in conformity with the explanation of Kritzius,
which seems to me the most judicious that has been offered. Oppugnatus, says he, is equivalent
to gravitur vexatus, or violently assailed; and Piso was thus assailed by Caesar on account
of his unjust execution of the Gaul; the words in judicio repetundarum merely mark the time
when Caesar's attack was made. While he was on his trial for one thing, he was attacked by
Caesar for another. Gerlach, observing that the words in judicio are wanting in one MS., would
emit them, and make oppugnatus govern pecuniarum repetundarum, as if it were accusatus; a change
which would certainly not improve the passage. The Galli Transpadani seem to have been much
attached to Caesar; see Cic. Ep. ad Att., v. 2; ad Fam. xvi. 12.

[232] Comparatively a youth--Adolescentalo. Caesar was then in the thirty-third, or, as some
say, the thirty-seventh year of his age. See the note on this word, c. 3.

[233] By magnificent exhibitions in public--Publice maximis muneribus. Shows of gladiators.

[234] L. In various directions throughout the city--Variis itineribus --in vicis. Going hither
and thither through the streets.

[235] Slaves--Familiam. "Servos suos, qui proprie familia," Cortius. Familia is a number of famuli.

[236] A full senate, however, had but a short time before, etc.--The senate had already decreed
that they were enemies to their country; Cicero now calls a meeting to ascertain what sentence
should be passed on them.

[237] On this occasion--moved--Tunc--decreverat. The tunc (or, as most editors have it, tum)
must be referred to the second meeting or the senate, for it does not appear that any proposal
concerning the punishment of the prisoners was made at the first meeting. There would be no
doubt on this point, were it not for the pluperfect tense, decreverat. I have translated it
as the perfect. We must suppose that Sallust had his thoughts on Caesar's speech, which was
to follow, and signifies that all this business had been done before Caesar addressed the house.
Kritzius thinks that the pluperfect was referred by Sallust, not to Caesar's speech, but to
the decree of the senate which was finally made; but this is surely a less satisfactory method
of settling the matter. Sallust often uses the pluperfect, where his reader would expect the
perfect; see, for instance, concusserat, at the beginning of c. 24.

[238] That he would go over to the opinion of Tiberius Nero--Pedibus in sententian Tib. Neronis--iturum.
Any question submitted to the senate was decided by the majority of votes, which was ascertained
either by numeratio, a counting of the votes, or by discessio, when those who were of one opinion,
at the direction of the presiding magistrate, passed over to one side of the house, and those
who were of the contrary opinion, to the other. See Aul. Gell. xiv. 7; Suet. Tib. 31; Adam's
Rom. Ant.; Dr. Smith's Dictionary, Art. Senatus.

[239] LI. It becomes all men, etc.--The beginning of this speech, attributed to Caesar, is
imitated from Demosthenes, [Greek: Peri ton hen Chersonaeso pragmaton: Edei men, o andres Athaenaioi,
tous legontas apantas en umin maete pros echthran poieisthai logon maedena, maete pros charin].
"It should be incumbent on all who speak before you, O Athenians, to advance no sentiment with
any view either to enmity or to favor."

[240] I consent to extraordinary measures--Novum consilium adprobo. "That is, I consent that
you depart from the usage of your ancestors, by which Roman citizens were protected from death."
Bernouf.

[241] Whatever can be devised--Omnium ingenia.

[242] Studied and impressive language--Composite atque magnifice. Composite, in language nicely
put together; elegantly. Magnifice, in striking or imposing terms. Composite is applied to
the speech of Caesar, by Cato, in the following chapter.

[243] Such I know to be his character, such his discretion--Eos mores, eam modestiam viri cognovi.
I have translated modestiam, discretion, which seems to be the proper meaning of the word.
Beauzee renders it prudence, and adds a note upon it, which may be worth transcription. "I
translate modestia," says he, "by prudence, and think myself authorized to do so. Sic definitur
a Stoicis, says Cicero (De Off. i. 40), ut modestia sit sicentia earum rerum, quae agentur,
aut dicentur, loco suo collocandarum; and shortly afterward, Sic fit ut modestia scientia sit
opportunitatis idoneorum ad agendum temporum. And what is understood in French by prudence?
It is, according to the Dictionary of the Academy, 'a virtue by which we discern and practice
what is proper in the conduct of life.' This is almost a translation of the words of Cicero".

[244] That--death is a relief from suffering, not a torment, etc. --This Epicurean doctrine
prevailed very much at Rome in Caesar's, and afterward. We may very well suppose Caesar to
have been a sincere convert to it. Cato alludes to this passage in the speech which follows;
as also Cicero, in his fourth Oration against Catiline, c. 4. See, for opinions on this point,
the first book of Cicero's Tusculan Questions.

[245] The Porcian Law--Lex Porcia. A law proposed by P. Porcius Loeca, one of the tribunes,
A.U.O. 454, which enacted that no one should bind, scourge or kill a Roman citizen. See Liv.,
x. 9; Cic. pro. Rabir., 3, 4: Verr., v 63; de Rep., ii, 31.

[246] Other laws--Aliae leges. So Caesar says below, "Tum lex Porcia aliaeque paratae, quibus
legibus auxilium damnatis permissum;" what other laws these were is uncertain. One of them,
however, was the Sempronian law, proposed by Caius Gracchus, which ordained that sentence should
not be passed on the life of a Roman citizen without the order of the people. See Cic. pro
Rabir. 4. So "O lex Porcia legesque Semproniae!" Cic. in. Verr., v. 63.

[247] Parricides--See c. 14, 32.

[248] The course of events--Dies. "Id est, temporis momentum (der veraenderte Zeitpunkt)."
Dietsch. Things change, and that which is approved at one period, is blamed at another. Tempus
and dies are sometimes joined (Liv., xxii. 39, ii. 45), as if not only time in general, but
particular periods, as from day to day, were intended.

[249] All precedents productive of evil effects--Omnia mala exempla. Examples of severe punishments
are meant.

[250] Any new example of severity, etc.--Novum illud exemplum ab dignis et idoneis ad indignos
et non idoneos transferetur. Gerlach, Kritzius, Dietsch, and Bernouf, agree to giving to this
passage the sense which is given in the translation. Digni and idonei are here used in a bad
sense, for digni et idonei qui poena afficiantur, deserving and fit objects for punishment.

[251] When they had conquered the Athenians--At the conclusion of the Peloponnesian war.

[252] Damasippus--"He, in the consulship of Caius Marius, the younger, and Cneius Carbo, was
city praetor, and put to death some of the most eminent senators, a short time before the victory
of Sylla. See Vell. Paterc. ii. 26." Bernouf.

[253] Ensigns of authority--Insignia magistratum. "The fasces and axes of the twelve lictors,
the robe adorned with purple, the curule chair, and the ivory scepter. For the Etrurians, as
Dionysius Halicarnassensis relates, having been subdued, in a nine years' war, by Tarquinius
Priscus, and having obtained peace on condition of submitting to him as their sovereign, presented
him with the insignia of their own monarchs. See Strabo, lib. V.; Florus, i. 5," Kuhnhardt.

[254] Best able to bear the expense--Maxime opibus valent. Are possessed of most resources.

[255] LII. The rest briefly expressed their assent, etc.--Caeteri verbo, alius alii, varie
assentiebantur. Verbo assentiebantur signifies that they expressed their assent merely by a
word or two, as assentior Silano, assentior Tiberio Neroni, aut Caesari, the three who had
already spoken. Varie, "in support of their different proposals."

[256] My feelings, Conscript Fathers, are extremely different, etc.--Longe mihi alia mens est,
P. C., etc. The commencement of Cato's speech is evidently copied from the beginning of the
third Olynthiac of Demosthenes: [Greek: Ouchi tauta paristatai moi ginoskein, o andres Athaenaioi,
otan te eis ta pragmata apoblepso kai otan pros tous logous ous akouo tous men gar logous peri
tou timoraesasthai Philippon oro gignomenous, ta de pragmata eis touto proaekonta oste opos
mae peisometha autoi proteron kakos skepsasthai deon.] "I am by no means affected in the same
manner. Athenians, when I review the state of our affairs, and when I attend to those speakers
who have now declared their sentiments. They insist that we should punish Philip; but our affairs,
situated as they now appear, warn us to guard against the dangers with which we ourselves are
threatened." Leland.

[257] Their altars and their homes--Aris atque focis suis. "When arae and foci are joined,
beware of supposing that they are to be distinguished as referring the one (arae) to the public
temples, and the other (foci) to private dwellings. Both are to be understood of private houses,
in which the ara belonged to the Dii Penates, and was placed in the impluvium in the inner
part of the house; the focus was dedicated to the lares, and was in the hall." Ernesti, Clav.
Cic., sub. v. Ara. Of the commentators on Sallust, Kritzius is, I believe, the only one who
has concurred in this notion of Ernesti; Langins and Dietsch (with Cortius) adhere to the common
opinion that arae are the public altars. Dietsch refers, for a complete refutation of Ernesti,
to G. A. B. Hertzberg de Diis Romanorum Penatibus, Halae, 1840, p. 64; a book which I have
not seen. Certainly, in the observation of Cicero ad Att., vii. 11, "Non est respublica in
parietibus, sed in aris et focis," arae must be considered (as Schiller observes) to denote
the public altars and national religion. See Schiller's Lex. v. Ara.

[258] In vain appeal to justice--Frusta judicia implores. Judicia, trials, to procure the inflictions
of legal penalties.

[259] Could not easily pardon the misconduct, etc.--Haud facile alterius lubidini malefacta
condonabam. "Could not easily forgive the licentiousness of another its evil deeds."

[260] Yet the republic remained secure; its own strength, etc. --Tamen respublica firma, opulentia
neglegentiam tolerabat. This is Cortius's reading; some editors, as Havercamp, Kritzius, and
Dietsch, insert erat after firma. Whether opulentia is the nominative or ablative, is disputed.
"Opulentia," says Allen, "casum sextum intellige, et repete respublica (ad tolerabat)." "Opulentia,"
says Kritzius, "melius nominativo capiendum videtur; nam quae sequuntur verba novam enunciationem
efficiunt." I have preferred to take it as a nominative.

[261] We have lost the real names of things, etc.--Imitated from Thucydides, iii. 32: [Greek:
Kai taen eiothuian axiosin ton onomaton es ta erga antaellaxan tae dikaiosei. Tolma men gar
alogistos, andria philetairos enomisthae, mellasis te promaethaes, deilia euprepaes to de sophron.
Tou anandrou proschaema, kai to pros apan syneton, epi pan argon.] "The ordinary meaning of
words was changed by them as they thought proper. For reckless daring was regarded as courage
that was true to its friends; prudent delay, as specious cowardice; moderation, as a cloak
for unmanliness; being intelligent in every thing, as being useful for nothing." Dale's translation;
Bohn's Classical Library.

[262] Elegant language--Composite. See above, c. 51.

[263] In a most excellent condition--Multo pulcherrumam. See c. 36.

[264]  For of allies and citizens, etc.--Imitated from Demosthenes, Philipp. III.4.

[265] I advise you to have mercy upon them--Misereamini censeo, i.e., censeo ut misereanum,
spoken ironically. Most translators have taken the words in the sense of "You would take pity
on them, I suppose," or something similar.

[266] Unless this be the second time that he has made war upon his country--"Cethegus first
made war on his country in conjunction with Marius." Bernouf. Whether Sallust alludes to this,
or intimates (as Gerlach thinks) that he was engaged in the first conspiracy, is doubtful.

[267] Is ready to devour us--Faucibus urget. Cortius, Kritzius, Gerlach, Burnouf, Allen, and
Dietsch, are unanimous in interpreting this as a metaphorical expression, alluding to a wild
beast with open jaws ready to spring upon its prey. They support this interpretation by Val.
Max., v. 3: "Faucibus apprehensam rempublicam;" Cic. pro. Cluent., 31: "Quum faucibus premetur;"
and Plaut. Casin. v. 3,4, "Manifesto faucibus teneor." Some, editors have read in faucibus,
and understood the words as referring to the jaws or narrow passes of Etruria, where Catiline
was with his army.

[268] LIII. All the senators of consular dignity, and a great part of the rest--Consulares
omnes, itemque senatus magna pars. "As the consulars were senators, the reader would perhaps
expect Sallust to have said reliqui senatus but itemque is equivalent to et praeter eos." Dietsch.

[269] That they had carried on wars--Bella gesta. That wars had been carried on by them.

[270] As if the parent stock were exhausted--Sicuti effoeta parentum. This is the reading of
Cortius, which he endeavors to explain thus: "Ac sicuti effoeta parens, inter parentes, sese
habere solet, ut nullos amplius liberas proferat, sic Roma sese habuit, ubi multis tempestatibus
nemo virtute magnus fuit." "Est," he adds, "or solet esse, or sese habere solet, may very well
be understood from the fuit which follows." But all this only serves to show what a critic
may find to say in defense of a reading to which he is determined to adhere. All the MSS.,
indeed, have parentum, except one, which has parente. Dietsch thinks that some word has been
lost between effoeta and parentum, and proposes to read sicuti effoeta aetate parentum, with
the sense, as if the age of the parents were too much exhausted to produce strong children.
Kritzius, from a suggestion of Cortius (or rather of his predecessor, Rupertus), reads effoetae
parentum (the effoetae agreeing with Romae which follows), considering the sense to be the
same as as effoetae parentis--as divina dearum for divina dea, etc. Gerlach retains the rending
of Cortius, and adopts his explanation (4to. ed., 1827), but says that the explicatio may seem
durior, and that it is doubtful whether we ought not to have recourse to the effoeta parente
of the old critics. Assuredly if we retain parentum, effoetae is the only reading that we can
well put with it. We may compare with it loca nuda gignentium, (Jug. c. 79), i.e. "places bare
of objects producing any thing." Gronovius know not what to do with the passage, called it
locus intellectus nemini, and at last decided on understanding virtute with effoetae parentum,
which, pace tarti viri, and although Allen has followed him, is little better than folly. The
concurrence of the majority of manuscripts in giving parentum makes the scholar unwilling to
set it aside. However, as no one has explained it satisfactorily even to himself, I have thought
it better, with Dietsch, to regard it a scriptura non ferenda, and to acquiesce, with Glareanus,
Rivius, Burnouf, and the Bipont edition, in the reading effoeta parente.

[271] LIV. Though attained by different means--Sed alia alii. "Alii alia gloria," for altera
alteri. So Livy, i. 21: Duo reges, alius alia via.

[272] Simplicity--Pudore. The word here seems to mean the absence of display and ostentation.

[273] With the temperate--Cum innocente. "That is cum integro et abstinente. For innocentia
is used for abstinentia, and opposed to avaritia. See Cic. pro Lego Manil., c. 13." Burnouf.

[274] LV. The triumvirs--Triumviros. The triumviri capitales, who had the charge of the prison
and of the punishment of the condemned. They performed their office by deputy, Val. Max., v. 4. 7.

[275] The Tullian dungeon--Tullianum. "Tullianum" is an adjective, with which robur must be
understood, as it was originally constructed, wholly or partially, with oak. See Festus, sub
voce Robum or Robur: his words are arcis robustis includebatur, of which the sense is not very
clear. The prison at Rome was built by Ancus Marcius, and enlarged by Servius Tullius, from
whom this part of it had its name; Varro de L. L., iv. 33. It is now transformed into a subterranean
chapel, beneath a small church erected over it, called San Pietro in Carcere. De Brosses and
Eustace both visited it; See Eustace's Classical Tour, vol. i. p. 260, in the Family Library.
See also Wasse's note on this passage.

[276] A vaulted roof connected with stone arches--Camera lapideis fornicibus vincta. "That
camera was a roof curved in the form of a testudo, is generally admitted; see Vitruv. vii.
3; Varr., R. R. iii. 7, init." Dietsch. The roof is now arched in the usual way.

[277] Certain men, to whom orders had been given--Quibus praeceptum erat. The editions of Havercamp,
Gerlach, Kritzius, and Dietsch, have vindices rerum capitalium, quibus, etc. Cortius ejected
the first three words from his text, as an intruded gloss. If the words be genuine, we must
consider these vindices to have been the deputies, or lictors, of the "triumvirs" mentioned above.

[278] LVI. As far as his numbers would allow--Pro numero militum. He formed his men into two
bodies, which he called legions, and divided each legion, as was usual, into ten cohorts, putting
into each cohort as many men as he could. The cohort of a full legion consisted of three maniples,
or six hundred men; the legion would then be six thousand men. But the legions were seldom
so large as this; they varied at different periods, from six thousand to three thousand; in
the time of Polybius they were usually four thousand two hundred. See Adam's Rom. Ant., and
Lipsius de Mil. Rom Dial. iv.

[279] From his confederates--Ex sociis. "Understand, not only the leaders in the conspiracy,
but those who, in c. 35, are said to have set out to join Catiline, though not at that time
exactly implicated in the plot." Kritzius. It is necessary to notice this, because Cortius
erroneously supposes "sociis" to mean the allies of Rome. Dahl, Longius, Mueller, Burnouf,
Gerlach, and Dietsch, all interpret in the same manner as Kritzius.

[280] Hoped himself shortly to find one--Sperabat propediem sese habiturum. Other editions,
as those of Havercamp, Gerlach, Kritzius, Dietsch, and Burnouf, have the words magnas copias
before sese. Cortius struck them out, observing that copiae occurred too often in this chapter,
and that in one MS. they were wanting. One manuscript, however, was insufficient authority
for discarding them; and the phrase suits much better with what follows, si Romae socii incepta
patravissent, if they are retained.

[281] Slaves--of whom vast numbers, etc.--Servitia--cujus magnae copiae. "Cujus," says Priscian
(xvii. 20, vol. ii., p. 81, cd. Krehl), "is referred ad rem, that is cujus rei servitiorum."
Servorum or hominum genus, is, perhaps, rather what Sallust had in his mind, as the subject
of his relation. Gerlach adduces as an expression most nearly approaching to Sallust's, Thucyd.,
iii. 92; [Greek: Kai dorieis, hae maetropolis ton Lakedaimonion].

[282] Impolitic--Alienum suis rationibus. Foreign to his views; inconsistent with his policy.

[283] LVII. In his hurried march into Gaul--In Galliam properanti. These words Cortius inclosed
in brackets, pronouncing them as a useless gloss. But all editors have retained them as genuine,
except the Bipont and Burnouf, who wholly omitted them. It would be tedious to notice all that
has been written upon this passage of Sallust. All the editions, before that of Cortius, had
expeditos, in fugam, some joining expeditos with locis aequioribus, and some with in fugam.
Expeditos in fugam was first condemned by Wasse, no negligent observer of phrases, who said
that no expression parallel to it could be found in any Latin writer. Cortius, seeing that
the expedition, of which Sallust is speaking, is on the part of Antonius, not of Catiline,
altered expeditos, though found in all the manuscripts, into expeditus; and in fugam, at the
same time, into in fuga; and in both these emendations he has been cordially followed by the
subsequent editors, Gerlach, Kritzius, and Dietsch. I have translated magno exercitu, "though
with a large army," although, according to Dietsch and some others, we need not consider a
large army as a cause of slowness, but may rather regard it as a cause of speed; since the
more numerous were Metellus's forces, the less he would care how many he might leave behind
through fatigue, or to guard the baggage; so that he might be the more expeditus, unincumbered.
With sequeretur we must understand hostes. The Bipont, Burnouf's, which often follows it, and
Havercamp's, are now the only editions of any note that retain expeditos in fugam.

[285] LVIII. That a spiritless army can not be rendered active, etc.--Neque ex ignavo strenuum,
neque fortem ex timido exercitum oratione imperatoris fieri. I have departed a little from
the literal reading, for the sake of ease.

[286] That on your own right hands depend, etc.--In dextris portare. "That you carry in your
right hands."

[287] Those same places--Eadem illa. "Coloniae atque municipia portas claudent." Burnouf.

[288] They contend for what but little concerns them--Illis supervacaneum est pugnare. It is
but of little concern to the great body of them personally: they may fight, but others will
have the advantages of their efforts.

[289] We might, etc.--Licuit nobis. The editions vary between nobis and robis; but most, with
Cortius, have nobis.

[290] LIX. In the rear--In subsidio. Most translators have rendered this, "as a body of reserve;"
but such can not well be the signification. It seems only to mean the part behind the front:
Catiline places the eight cohorts in front, and the rest of his force in subsidio, to support
the front. Subsidia, according to Varro (de L. L., iv. 16) and Festus (v. Subsidium), was a
term applied to the Triarii, because they subsidebant, or sunk down on one knee, until it was
their turn to act. See Sheller's Lex. v. Subsidium. "Novissimi ordines ita dicuntur." Gerlach.
In subsidiis, which occurs a few lines below, seems to signify in lines in the rear; as in
Jug. 49, triplicibus subsidiis aciem intruxit, i.e. with three lines behind the front. "Subsidium
ea pars aciei vocabatur quae reliquis submitti posset; Caes. B. G., ii. 25." Dietsch.

[291] All the ablest centurions--Centuriones omnes lectos. "Lectos you may consider to be the
same as eximios, praestantes, centurionum praestantissimum quemque." Kritzius. Cortius and
others take it for a participle, chosen.

[292] Veterans--Evocatos. Some would make this also a participle, because, say they, it can
not signify evocati, or called-out veterans, since, though there were such soldiers in a regular
Roman army, there could be none so called in the tumultuary forces of Catiline. But to this
it is answered that Catiline had imitated the regular disposition of a Roman army, and that
his veterans might consequently be called evocati, just as if they had been in one; and, also
that evocatus as a participle would be useless; for if Catiline removed (subducit) the centurions,
it is unnecessary to add that he called them out, "Evocati erant, qui expletis stipendiis non
poterant in delectu scribi, sed precibus imperatoris permoti, aut in gratiam ejus, militiam
resumebant, homines longo uso militiae peritissimi. Dio., xiv. p. 276. [Greek: Ek touton de
ton anoron kai to ton Haeouokaton hae Ouokaton systaema (ous Anaklaetous an tis Ellaenisas,
hoti pepaumenoi taes strateias, ep' autein authis aneklaethmsan, ouomaseien) enomisthae.] Intelligit
itaque ejusmodi homines veteranos, etsi non proprie erant tales evocati, sed sponte castra
Catilinae essent secuti." Cortius.

[293] Into the foremost ranks--In primam aciem. Whether Sallust means that he ranged them with
the eight cohorts, or only in the first line of the subsidia, is not clear.

[294] A certain officer of Faesulae--Faesulanum quemdam. "He is thought to have been that P.
Furius, whom Cicero (Cat., iii. 6, 14) mentions as having been one of the colonists that Sylla
settled at Faesulae, and who was to have been executed, if he had been apprehended, for having
been concerned in corrupting the Allobrogian deputies." Dietsch. Plutarch calls this officer
Furius.

[295] His freedmen--Libertis. "His own freedmen, whom he probably had about him as a body-guard,
deeming them the most attached of his adherents. Among them was, possibly, that Sergius, whom
we find from Cic. pro Domo, 5, 6, to have been Catiline's armor bearer." Dietsch.

[296] The colonists--Colonis. "Veterans of Sylla, who had been settled by him as colonists
in Etruria, and who had now been induced to join Catiline." Gerlach. See c. 28.

[297] By the eagle--Propter aquilam. See Cic. in Cat., i. 9.

[298] Being lame--Pedibus aeger. It has been common among translators to render pedibus aeger
afflicted with the gout, though a Roman might surely be lame without having the gout. As the
lameness of Antonius, however, according to Dion Cassius (xxxvii. 39), was only pretended,
it may be thought more probable that he counterfeited the gout than any other malady. It was
with this belief, I suppose, that the writer of a gloss on one of the manuscripts consulted
by Cortius, interpreted the words, ultroneam passus est podogram, "he was affected with a voluntary
gout." Dion Cassius says that he preferred engaging with Antonius, who had the larger army,
rather than with Metellus, who had the smaller, because he hoped that Antonius would designedly
act in such a way as to lose the victory.

[299] To meet the present insurrection--Tumulti causa. Any sudden war or insurrection in Italy
or Gaul was called tumultus. See Cic. Philipp. v. 12.

[300] Their temples and their homes--Aris atque focis suis. See c. 52.

[301] LX. In a furious charge--Infestis siqnis.

[302] Offering but partial resistance--Alios alibi resistentes. Not making a stand in a body,
but only some in one place, and some in another.

[303] Among the first, etc.--In primis pugnantes cadunt. Cortius very properly refers in primis
to cadunt.

CHRONOLOGY OF THE CONSPIRACY OF CATILINE.

EXTRACTED FROM DE BROSSES.

A.U.C 685.--COSS. L. CAECILIUS METELLUS, Q. MARCIIS REX.--Catiline is Praetor.

686.--C. CALPURNIUS PISO, M. ACILIUS GLABRIO.--Catiline Governor of Africa.

687.--L. VOLCATIUS TULLUS, M. AEMILIUS LEPIDUS.--Deputies from Africa accuse Catiline of extortion,
through the agency of Clodius. He is obliged to desist from standing for the consulship, and
forms the project of the first conspiracy. See Sall. Cat., c. 18.

688.--L. MANLIUS TORQUATUS, L. AURELIUS COTTA.--Jan. 1: Catiline's project of the first conspiracy
becomes known, and he defers the execution of it to the 5th of February, when he makes an unsuccessful
attempt to execute it. July 17: He is acquitted of extortion, and begins to canvass for the
consulship for the year 690.

689.--L. JULIUS CAESAR, C. MARCIUS FIGULUS THERMUS.--June 1: Catiline convokes the chiefs of
the second conspiracy. He is disappointed in his views on the consulship.

690--M. TULLIUS CICERO, C. ANTONIUS HYBRIDA.--Oct. 19: Cicero lays the affair of the conspiracy
before the senate, who decree plenary powers to the consuls for defending the state. Oct. 21:
Silanus and Muraena are elected consuls for the next year, Catiline, who was a candidate, being
rejected. Oct. 22: Catiline is accused under the Plautian Law de vi. Sall. Cat., c. 31. Oct.
24: Manlius takes up arms in Etruria. Nov. 6: Catiline assembles the chief conspirators, by
the agency of Porcius Laeca Sall. Cat., c. 27. Nov. 7: Vargunteius and Cornelius undertake
to assassinate Cicero. Sall. Cat., c. 28. Nov. 8: Catiline appears in the senate; Cicero delivers
his first Oration against him; he threatens to extinguish the flame raised around him in a
general destruction, and quits Rome. Sall. Cat., c. 31. Nov. 9: Cicero delivers his second
Oration against Catiline, before an assembly of the people, convoked by order of the senate.
Nov. 20, or thereabouts: Catiline and Manlius are declared public enemies. Soon after this
the conspirators attempt to secure the support of the Allobrogian deputies. Dec. 3: About two
o'clock in the morning the Allobroges are apprehended. Toward evening Cicero delivers his third
Oration against Catiline, before the people. Dec. 5. Cicero's fourth Oration against Catiline,
before the senate. Soon after, the conspirators are condemned to death, and great honors are
decreed by the senate to Cicero. 691.--D. JUNIUS SILANUS, L. LICINIUS MURAENA--Jan. 5: Battle
of Pistoria, and death of Catiline.

       *       *       *       *       *

The narrative of Sallust terminates with the account of the battle of Pistoria. There are a
few other particulars connected with the history of the conspiracy, which, for the sake of
the English reader, it may not be improper to add.

When the victory was gained, Antonius caused Catiline's head to be cut off, and sent it to
Rome by the messengers who carried the news. Antonius himself was honored, by a public decree,
with the title of Imperator, although he had done little to merit the distinction, and although
the number of slain, which was three thousand, was less than that for which the title was generally
given. See Dio Cass. xxxvii., 40, 41.

The remains of Catiline's army, after the death of their leader, continued to make efforts
to raise another insurrection. In August, eight months after the battle, a party, under the
command of Lucius Sergius, perhaps a relative or freedman of Catiline, still offered resistance
to the forces of the government in Etruria. Reliquiae conjuratorum, cum L. Sergio, tumultuantur
in Hetruria. Fragm. Act. Diurn. The responsibility of watching these marauders was left to
the proconsul Metellus Celer. After some petty encounters, in which the insurgents were generally
worsted, Sergius, having collected his force at the foot of the Alps, attempted to penetrate
into the country of the Allobroges, expecting to find them ready to take up arms; but Metellus,
learning his intention, pre-occupied the passes, and then surrounded and destroyed him and
his followers.

At Rome, in the mean time, great honors were paid to Cicero. A thanksgiving of thirty days
was decreed in his name, an honor which had previously been granted to none but military men,
and which was granted to him, to use his own words, because he had delivered the city from
fire, the citizens from slaughter, and Italy from war. "If my thanksgiving," he also observes,
"be compared with those of others, there will be found this difference, that theirs were granted
them for having managed the interests of the republic successfully, but that mine was decreed
to me for having preserved the republic from ruin." See Cic. Orat. iii., in Cat., c. 6. Pro
Sylla, c. 30. In Pison. c. 3. Philipp. xiv., 8. Quintus Catulus, then princeps senatus, and Marcus

                  Roma parentem,
    Roma patrem patriae Ciceronem libera dixit.

Juv. Sat., viii. 244.

Of the inferior conspirators, who did not follow Sergius, and who were apprehended at Rome,
or in other parts of Italy, after the death of the leaders in the plot, some were put to death,
chiefly on the testimony of Lucius Vettius, one of their number, who turned informer against
the rest. But many whom he accused were acquitted; others, supposed to be guilty, were allowed
to escape.

THE JUGURTHINE WAR

THE ARGUMENT.

The Introduction, I.-IV. The author's declaration of his design, and prefatory account of Jugurtha's
family, V. Jugurtha's character, VI. His talents excite apprehensions in his uncle Micipsa,
VII. He is sent to Numantia. His merits, his favor with Scipio, and his popularity in the army,
VIII. He receives commendation and advice from Scipio and is adopted by Micipsa, who resolves
that Jugurtha, Adherbal, and Hiempsal, shall, at his death, divide his kingdom equally between
them, IX. He is addressed by Micipsa on his death-bed, X. His proceedings, and those of Adherbal
and Hiempsal, after the death of Micipsa, XI. He murders Hiempsal, XII. He defeats Adherbal,
and drives him for refuge to Rome. He dreads the vengeance of the senate, and sends embassadors
to Rome, who are confronted with those of Adherbal in the senate-house, XIII. The speech of
Adherbal, XIV. The reply of Jugurtha's embassadors, and the opinions of the senators, XV. The
prevalence of Jugurtha's money, and the partition of the kingdom between him and Adherbal,
XVI. A description of Africa, XVII. An account of its inhabitants, and of its principal divisions
at the commencement of the Jugurthine war, XVIII., XIX. Jugurtha invades Adherbal's part of
the kingdom, XX. He defeats Adherbal, and besieges him in Cirta, XXI. He frustrates the intentions
of the Roman deputies, XXII. Adherbal's distresses, XXIII. His letter to the senate, XXIV.
Jugurtha disappoints a second Roman deputation, XXV. He takes Cirta, and puts Adherdal to death,
XXVI. The senate determine to make war upon him, and commit the management of it to Calpurnius,
XXVII. He sends an ineffectual embassy to the senate. His dominions are vigorously invaded
by Calpurnius, XXVIII. He bribes Calpurnius, and makes a treaty with him, XXIX. His proceedings
are discussed at Rome, XXX. The speech of Memmius concerning them, XXXI. The consequences of
it, XXXII. The arrival of Jugurtha at Rome, and his appearance before the people, XXXIII.,
XXXIV. He procures the assassination of Massiva, and is ordered to quit Italy, XXXV. Albinus,
the successor of Calpurnius, renews the war. He returns to Rome, and leaves his brother Aulus
to command in his absence, XXXVI. Aulus miscarries in the siege of Suthul, and concludes a
dishonorable treaty with Jugurtha, XXXVII, XXXVIII. His treaty is annulled by the senate. His
brother, Albinus, resumes the command, XXXIX. The people decree an inquiry into the conduct
of those who had treated with Jugurtha, XL. Consideration on the popular and senatorial factions,
XLI., XLII. Metellus assumes the conduct of the war, XLIII. He finds the army in Numidia without
discipline, XLIV. He restores subordination, XLV. He rejects Jugurtha's offers of submission,
bribes his deputies, and marches into the country, XLVI. He places a garrison in Vacca, and
seduces other deputies of Jugurtha, XLVII. He engages with Jugurtha, and defeats him. His lieutenant,
Rutilius, puts to flight Bomilcar, the general of Jugurtha, XLVIII.-LIII. He is threatened
with new opposition. He lays waste the country. His stragglers are cut off by Jugurtha, LIV.
His merits are celebrated at Rome. His caution. His progress retarded, LV. He commences the
siege of Zama, which is reinforced by Jugurtha. His lieutenant, Marius, repulses Jugurtha at
Sicca, LVI. He is joined by Marius, and prosecutes the siege. His camp is surprised, LVII.,
LVIII. His struggles with Jugurtha, and his operations before the town, LIX., LX. He raises
the siege, and goes into winter quarters. He attaches Bomilcar to his interest, LXI. He makes
a treaty with Jugurtha, who breaks it, LXII. The ambition of Marius. His character. His desire
of the consulship, LXIII. His animosity toward Metellus. His intrigues to supplant him, LXIV,
LXV. The Vaccians surprise the Roman garrison, and kill all the Romans but Turpilius, the governor,
LXVI., LXVII. Metellus recovers Vacca, and puts Turpilius to death, LXVIII., LXIX. The conspiracy
of Bomilcar, and Nabdalsa against Jugurtha, and the discovery of it. Jugurtha's disquietude,
LXX.-LXXII. Metellus makes preparations for a second campaign. Marius returns to Rome, and
is chosen consul, and appointed to command the army in Numidia, LXXIII. Jugurtha's irresolution.
Metellus defeats him, LXXIV. The flight of Jugurtha to Thala. The march of Metellus in pursuit
of him, LXXV. Jugurtha abandons Thala, and Metellus takes possession of it, LXXVI. Metellus
receives a deputation from Leptis, and sends a detachment thither, LXXVII. The situation of
Leptis, LXXVIII. The history of the Philaeni, LXXIX. Jugurtha collects an army of Getulians,
and gains the support of Bocchus, King of Mauritania. The two kings proceed toward Cirta, LXXX.,
LXXXI. Metellus marches against them, but hearing that Marius is appointed to succeed him,
contents himself with endeavoring to alienate Bocchus from Jugurtha, and protracting the war
rather than prosecuting it, LXXXII., LXXXIII. The preparations of Marius for his departure.
His disposition toward the nobility. His popularity, LXXXIV. His speech to the people, LXXXV.
He completes his levies, and arrives in Africa, LXXXVI. He opens the campaign, LXXXVII. The
reception of Metellus in Rome. The successes and plans of Marius. The applications of Bocchus,
LXXXVIII. Marius marches against Capsa, and takes it, LXXXIX-XCI. He gains possession of a
fortress which the Numidians thought impregnable, XCII.-XCIV. The arrival of Sylla in the camp.
His character, XCV. His arts to obtain the favor of Marius and the soldiers, XCVI. Jugurtha
and Bocchus attack Marius, and are vigorously opposed, XCVII., XCVIII. Marius surprises them
in the night, and routs them with great slaughter, XCIX. Marius prepares to go into winter
quarters. His vigilance, and maintenance of discipline, C. He fights a second battle with Jugurtha
and Bocchus, and gains a second victory over them, CI. He arrives at Cirta. He receives a deputation
from Bocchus, and sends Sylla and Manlius to confer with him, CII. Marina undertakes an expedition
Bocchus prepares to send ambassadors to Rome, who being stripped by robbers, takes refuge in
the Roman camp, and are entertained by Sylla during the absence of Marius, CIII. Marius returns.
The ambassadors set out for Rome. The answer which they receive from the senate, CIV. Bocchus
desires a conference with Sylla; Sylla arrives at the camp of Bocchus, CV.-CVII. Negotiations
between Sylla and Bocchus, CVIII., CIX. The address of Bocchus to Sylla, CX. The reply of Sylla.
The subsequent transactions between them. The resolution of Bocchus to betray Jugurtha, and
the execution of it, CXI-CXIII. The triumph of Marius, CXIV.

I. Mankind unreasonably complain of their nature, that, being weak and short-lived, it is governed
by chance rather than intellectual power;[1] for, on the contrary, you will find, upon reflection,
that there is nothing more noble or excellent, and that to nature is wanting rather human industry
than ability or time.

The ruler and director of the life of man is the mind, which, when it pursues glory in the
path of true merit, is sufficiently powerful, efficient, and worthy of honor,[2] and needs
no assistance from fortune, who can neither bestow integrity, industry, or other good qualities,
nor can take them away. But if the mind, ensnared by corrupt passions, abandons itself[3] to
indolence and sensuality, when it has indulged for a season in pernicious gratifications, and
when bodily strength, time, and mental vigor, have been wasted in sloth, the infirmity of nature
is accused, and those who are themselves in fault impute their delinquency to circumstances.[4]

If man, however, had as much regard for worthy objects, as he has spirit in the pursuit of
what is useless,[5] unprofitable, and even perilous, he would not be governed by circumstances
more than he would govern them, and would attain to a point of greatness, at which, instead
of being mortal,[6] he would be immortalized by glory.

II. As man is composed of mind and body, so, of all our concerns and pursuits, some partake
the nature of the body, and some that of the mind. Thus beauty of person, eminent wealth, corporeal
strength, and all other things of this kind, speedily pass away; but the illustrious achievements
of the mind are, like the mind itself, immortal.

Of the advantages of person and fortune, as there is a beginning, there is also an end; they
all rise and fall,[7] increase and decay. But the mind, incorruptible and eternal, the ruler
of the human race, actuates and has power over all things,[8] yet is itself free from control.

The depravity of those, therefore, is the more surprising, who, devoted to corporeal gratifications,
spend their lives in luxury and indolence, but suffer the mind, than which nothing is better
or greater in man, to languish in neglect and inactivity; especially when there are so many
and various mental employments by which the highest renown may be attained.

III. Of these occupations, however, civil and military offices,[9] and all administration of
public affairs, seem to me at the present time, by no means to be desired; for neither is honor
conferred on merit, nor are those, who have gained power by unlawful means, the more secure
or respected for it. To rule our country or subjects[10] by force, though we may have the ability,
and may correct what is wrong, is yet an ungrateful undertaking; especially as all changes
in the state lead to[11] bloodshed, exile, and other evils of discord; while to struggle in
ineffectual attempts, and to gain nothing, by wearisome exertions, but public hatred, is the
extreme of madness; unless when a base and pernicious spirit, perchance, may prompt a man to
sacrifice his honor and liberty to the power of a party.

IV. Among other employments which are pursued by the intellect, the recording of past events
is of pre-eminent utility; but of its merits I may, I think, be silent, since many have spoken
of them, and since, if I were to praise my own occupation, I might be considered as presumptuously[12]
praising myself. I believe, too, that there will be some, who, because I have resolved to live
unconnected with political affairs, will apply to my arduous and useful labors the name of
idleness; especially those who think it an important pursuit to court the people, and gain
popularity by entertainments. But if such persons will consider at what periods I obtained
office, what sort of men[13] were then unable to obtain it, and what description of persons
have subsequently entered the senate,[14] they will think, assuredly, that I have altered my
sentiments rather from prudence than from indolence, and that more good will arise to the state
from my retirement, than from the busy efforts of others.

I have often heard that Quintus Maximus,[15] Publius Scipio,[16] and many other illustrious
men of our country, were accustomed to observe, that, when they looked on the images of their
ancestors, they felt their minds irresistibly excited to the pursuit of honor.[17] Not, certainly,
that the wax,[18] or the shape, had any such influence; but, as they called to mind their forefathers'
achievements, such a flame was kindled in the breasts of those eminent persons, as could not
be extinguished till their own merit had equaled the fame and glory of their ancestors.

But, in the present state of manners, who is there, on the contrary, that does not rather emulate
his forefathers in riches and extravagance, than in virtue and labor? Even men of humble birth,[19]
who formerly used to surpass the nobility in merit, pursue power and honor rather by intrigue
and dishonesty, than by honorable qualifications; as if the praetorship, consulate, and all
other offices of the kind, were noble and dignified in themselves, and not to be estimated
according to the worth of those who fill them.

But, in expressing my concern and regret at the manners of the state, I have proceeded with
too great freedom, and at too great length. I now return to my subject.

V. I am about to relate the war which the Roman people carried on with Jugurtha, King of the
Numidians; first, because it was great, sanguinary, and of varied fortune; and secondly, because
then, for the first time, opposition was offered to the power of the nobility; a contest which
threw every thing, religious and civil, into confusion,[20] and was carried to such a height
of madness, that nothing but war, and the devastation of Italy, could put an end to civil dissensions.[21]
But before I fairly commence my narrative, I will take a review of a few preceding particulars,
in order that the whole subject may be more clearly and distinctly understood.

In the second Punic war, in which Hannibal, the leader of the Carthaginians, had weakened the
power of Italy more than any other enemy[22] since the Roman name became great,[23] Masinissa,
King of the Numidians, being received into alliance by Publius Scipio, who, from his merits
was afterward surnamed Africanus, had performed for us many eminent exploits in the field.
In return for which services, after the Carthaginians were subdued, and after Syphax,[24] whose
power in Italy was great and extensive, was taken prisoner, the Roman people presented to Masinissa,
as a free gift, all the cities and lands that they had captured. Masinissa's friendship for
us, accordingly, remained faithful and inviolate; his reign[25] and his life ended together.
His son, Micipsa, alone succeeded to his kingdom; Mastanabal and Gulussa, his two brothers,
having been carried off by disease. Micipsa had two sons, Adherbal and Hiempsal, and had brought
up in his house, with the same care as his own children, a son of his brother Mastanabal, named
Jugurtha, whom Masinissa, as being the son of a concubine, had left in a private station.

VI. Jugurtha, as he grew up, being strong in frame, graceful in person, but, above all, vigorous
in understanding, did not allow himself to be enervated by pleasure and indolence, but, as
is the usage of his country, exercised himself in riding, throwing the javelin, and contending
in the race with his equals in age; and, though he excelled them all in reputation, he was
yet beloved by all. He also passed much of his time in hunting; he was first, or among the
first, to wound the lion and other beasts; he performed very much, but spoke very little of
himself.

Micipsa, though he was at first gratified with these circumstances, considering that the merit
of Jugurtha would be an honor to his kingdom, yet, when he reflected that the youth was daily
increasing in popularity, while he himself was advanced in age, and his children but young,
he was extremely disturbed at the state of things, and revolved it frequently in his mind.
The very nature of man, ambitious of power, and eager to gratify its desires, gave him reason
for apprehension, as well as the opportunity afforded by his own age and that of his children,
which was sufficient, from the prospect of such a prize, to lead astray even men of moderate
desires. The affection of the Numidians, too, which was strong toward Jugurtha, was another
cause for alarm; among whom, if he should cut off such a man, he feared that some insurrection
or war might arise.

VII. Surrounded by such difficulties, and seeing that a man, so popular among his countrymen,
was not to be destroyed either by force or by fraud, he resolved, as Jugurtha was of an active
disposition, and eager for military reputation, to expose him to dangers in the field, and
thus make trial of fortune. During the Numantine war,[26] therefore, when he was sending supplies
of horse and foot to the Romans, he gave him the command of the Numidians, whom he dispatched
into Spain, hoping that he would certainly perish, either by an ostentatious display of his
bravery, or by the merciless hand of the enemy. But this project had a very different result
from that which he had expected. For when Jugurtha, who was of an active and penetrating intellect,
had learned the disposition of Publius Scipio, the Roman general, and the character of the
enemy, he quickly rose, by great exertion and vigilance, by modestly submitting to orders,
and frequently exposing himself to dangers, to such a degree of reputation, that he was greatly
beloved by our men, and extremely dreaded by the Numantines. He was indeed, what is peculiarly
difficult, both brave in action, and wise in counsel; qualities, of which the one, from forethought,
generally produces fear, and the other, from confidence, rashness. The general, accordingly,
managed almost every difficult matter by the aid of Jugurtha, numbered him among his friends,
and grew daily more and more attached to him, as a man whose advice and whose efforts were
never useless. With such merits were joined generosity of disposition, and readiness of wit,
by which he united to himself many of the Romans in intimate friendship.

VIII. There were at that time, in our army, a number of officers, some of low, and some of
high birth, to whom wealth was more attractive than virtue or honor; men who were attached
to certain parties, and of consequence in their own country; but, among the allies, rather
distinguished than respected. These persons inflamed the mind of Jugurtha, of itself sufficiently
aspiring, by assuring him, "that if Micipsa should die, he might have the kingdom of Numidia
to himself; for that he was possessed of eminent merit, and that anything might be purchased
at Rome."

When Numantia, however, was destroyed, and Scipio had determined to dismiss the auxiliary troops,
and to return to Rome, he led Jugurtha, after having honored him, in a public assembly, with
the noblest presents and applauses, into his own tent; where he privately admonished him "to
court the friendship of the Romans rather by attention to them as a body, than by practicing
on individuals;[27] to bribe no one, as what belonged to many could not without danger be bought
from a few; and adding that, if he would but trust to his own merits, glory and regal power
would spontaneously fall to his lot; but, should he proceed too rashly, he would only, by the
influence of his money, hasten his own ruin."

IX. Having thus spoken, he took leave of him, giving him a letter, which he was to present
to Micipsa, and of which the following was the purport: "The merit of your nephew Jugurtha,
in the war against Numantia, has been eminently distinguished; a fact which I am sure will
afford you pleasure. He is dear to us for his services, and we shall strive, with our utmost
efforts, to make him equally dear to the senate and people of Rome. As a friend, I sincerely
congratulate you; you have a kinsman worthy of yourself, and of his grandfather Masinissa."

Micipsa, when he found, from the letter of the general, that what he had already heard reported
was true, being moved, both by the merit of the youth and by the interest felt for him by Scipio,
altered his purpose, and endeavored to win Jugurtha by kindness. He accordingly, in a short
time,[28] adopted him as his son, and made him, by his will, joint-heir with his own children.

A few years afterward, when, being debilitated by age and disease, he perceived that the end
of his life was at hand, he is said, in the presence of his friends and relations, and of Adherbal
and Hiempsal his sons, to have spoken with Jugurtha in the following manner:

X. "I received you, Jugurtha, at a very early age, into my kingdom,[29] at a time when you
had lost your father, and were without prospects or resources, expecting that, in return for
my kindness, I should not be less loved by you than by my own children, if I should have any.
Nor have my anticipations deceived me; for, to say nothing of your other great and noble deeds,
you have lately, on your return from Numantia, brought honor and glory both to me and my kingdom;
by your bravery, you have rendered the Romans, from being previously our friends, more friendly
to us than ever; the name of our family is revived in Spain; and, finally, what is most difficult
among mankind, you have suppressed envy by preeminent merit.[30]

And now, since nature is putting a period to my life, I exhort and conjure you, by this right
hand, and by the fidelity which you owe to my kingdom,[31] to regard these princes, who are
your cousins by birth, and your brothers by my generosity, with sincere affection; and not
to be more anxious to attach to yourself strangers, than to retain the love of those connected
with you by blood. It is not armies, or treasures,[32] that form the defenses of a kingdom,
but friends, whom you can neither command by force nor purchase with gold; for they are acquired
only by good offices and integrity. And who can be a greater friend than one brother to another?[33]
Or what stranger will you find faithful, if you are at enmity with your own family? I leave
you a kingdom, which will be strong if you act honorably, but weak, if you are ill-affected
to each other; for by concord even small states are increased, but by discord, even the greatest
fall to nothing.

But on you, Jugurtha, who are superior in age and wisdom, it is incumbent, more than on your
brothers, to be cautious that nothing of a contrary tendency may arise; for, in all disputes,
he that is the stronger, even though he receive the injury, appears, because his power is greater,
to have inflicted it. And do you, Adherbal and Hiempsal, respect and regard a kinsman of such
a character; imitate his virtues, and make it your endeavor to show that I have not adopted
a better son[34] than those whom I have begotten."

XI. To this address, Jugurtha, though he knew that the king had spoken insincerely,[35] and
though he was himself revolving thoughts of a far different nature, yet replied with good feeling,
suitable to the occasion. A few days afterward Micipsa died.

When the princes had performed his funeral with due magnificence, they met together to hold
a discussion on the general condition of their affairs. Hiempsal, the youngest, who was naturally
violent, and who had previously shown contempt for the mean birth of Jugurtha, as being inferior
on his mother's side, sat down on the right hand of Adherbal, in order to prevent Jugurtha
from being the middle one of the three, which is regarded by the Numidians as the seat of honor.[36]
Being urged by his brother, however, to yield to superior age, he at length removed, but with
reluctance, to the other seat.[37]

In the course of this conference, after a long debate about the administration of the kingdom,
Jugurtha suggested, among other measures, "that all the acts and decrees made in the last five
years should be annulled, as Micipsa, during that period, had been enfeebled by age, and scarcely
sound in intellect."

Hiempsal replied, "that he was exceedingly pleased with the proposal, since Jugurtha himself,
within the last three years, had been adopted as joint-heir to the throne." This repartee sunk
deeper into the mind of Jugurtha than any one imagined. From that very time, accordingly, being
agitated with resentment and jealousy, he began to meditate and concert schemes, and to think
of nothing but projects for secretly cutting off Hiempsal. But his plans proving slow in operation,
and his angry feelings remaining unabated, he resolved to execute his purpose by any means
whatsoever.

XII. At the first meeting of the princes, of which I have just spoken, it had been resolved,
in consequence of their disagreement, that the treasures should be divided among them, and
that limits should be set to the jurisdiction of each. Days were accordingly appointed for
both these purposes, but the earlier of the two for the division of the money. The princes,
in the mean time, retired into separate places of abode in the neighborhood of the treasury.
Hiempsal, residing in the town of Thirmida, happened to occupy the house of a man, who, being
Jugurtha's chief lictor,[38] had always been liked and favored by his master. This man, thus
opportunely presented as an instrument, Jugurtha loaded with promises, and induced him to go
to his house, as if for the purpose of looking over it, and provide himself with false keys
to the gates; for the true ones used to be given to Hiempsal, adding, that he himself, when
circumstances should call for his presence, would be at the place with a large body of men.
This commission the Numidian speedily executed, and, according to his instructions, admitted
Jugurtha's men in the night, who, as soon as they had entered the house, went different ways
in quest of the prince; some of his attendants they killed while asleep, and others as they
met them; they searched into secret places, broke open those that were shut, and filled the
whole premises with uproar and tumult. Hiempsal, after a time, was found concealed in the hut
of a maid-servant,[39] where, in his alarm and ignorance of the locality, he had at first taken
refuge. The Numidians, as they had been ordered, brought his head to Jugurtha.

XIII The report of so atrocious an outrage was soon spread through Africa. Fear seized on Adherbal,
and on all who had been subject to Micipsa. The Numidians divided into two parties, the greater
number following Adherbal, but the more warlike, Jugurtha; who, accordingly, armed as large
a force as he could, brought several cities, partly by force and partly by their own consent,
under his power, and prepared to make himself sovereign of the whole of Numidia. Adherbal,
though he had sent embassadors to Rome, to inform the senate of his brother's murder and his
own circumstances, yet, relying on the number of his troops, prepared for an armed resistance.
When the matter, however, came to a contest, he was defeated, and fled from the field of battle
into our province,[40] and from thence hastened to Rome.

Jugurtha, having thus accomplished his purposes,[41] and reflecting, at leisure, on the crime
which he had committed, began to feel a dread of the Roman people, against whose resentment
he had no hopes of security but in the avarice of the nobility, and in his own wealth. A few
days afterward, therefore, he dispatched embassadors to Rome, with a profusion of gold and
silver, whom he directed, in the first place, to make abundance of presents to his old friends,
and then to procure him new ones; and not to hesitate, in short; to effect whatever could be
done by bribery.

When these deputies had arrived at Rome, and had sent large presents, according to the prince's
direction, to his intimate friends,[42] and to others whose influence was at that time powerful,
so remarkable a change ensued, that Jugurtha, from being an object of the greatest odium, grew
into great regard and favor with the nobility; who, partly allured with hope, and partly with
actual largesses, endeavored, by soliciting the members of the senate individually, to prevent
any severe measures from being adopted against him. When the embassadors accordingly, felt
sure of success, the senate, on a fixed day, gave audience to both parties[43]. On that occasion,
Adherbal, as I have understood, spoke to the following effect:

XIV. "My father Micipsa, Conscript Fathers, enjoined me, on his death-bed, to look upon the
kingdom of Numidia as mine only by deputation;[44] to consider the right and authority as belonging
to you; to endeavor, at home and in the field, to be as serviceable to the Roman people as
possible; and to regard you as my kindred and relatives:[45] saying that, if I observed these
injunctions. I should find, in your friendship, armies, riches, and all necessary defenses
of my realm. By these precepts I was proceeding to regulate my conduct, when Jugurtha, the
most abandoned of all men whom the earth contains, setting at naught your authority, expelled
me, the grandson of Masinissa, and the hereditary[46] ally and friend of the Roman people,
from my kingdom and all my possessions.

Since I was thus to be reduced to such an extremity of wretchedness, I could wish that I were
able to implore your aid, Conscript Fathers, rather for the sake of my own services than those
of my ancestors; I could wish, indeed, above all, that acts of kindness were due to me from
the Romans, of which I should not stand in need; and, next to this,[47] that, if I required
your services, I might receive them as my due. But as integrity is no defense in itself, and
as I had no power to form the character of Jugurtha,[48] I have fled to you, Conscript Fathers,
to whom, what is the most grievous of all things, I am compelled to become a burden before
I have been an assistance.

Other princes have been received into your friendship after having been conquered in war, or
have solicited an alliance with you in circumstances of distress; but our family commenced
its league with the Romans in the war with Carthage, at a time when their faith was a greater
object of attraction than their fortune. Suffer not, then, O Conscript Fathers, a descendent
of that family to implore aid from you in vain. If I had no other plea for obtaining your assistance
but my wretched fortune; nothing to urge, but that, having been recently a king, powerful by
birth, by character, and by resources, I am now dishonored, afflicted,[49] destitute, and dependent
on the aid of others, it would yet become the dignity of Rome to protect me from injury, and
to allow no man's dominions to be increased by crime. But I am driven from those very territories
which the Roman people gave to my ancestors, and from which my father and grandfather, in conjunction
with yourselves, expelled Syphax and the Carthaginians. It is what you bestowed that has been
wrested from me; in my wrongs you are insulted.

Unhappy man that I am! Has your kindness, O my father Micipsa, come to this, that he whom you
made equal with your children, and a sharer of your kingdom, should become, above all others,[50]
the destroyers of your race? Shall our family, then, never be at peace? Shall we always be
harassed with war, bloodshed, and exile? While the Carthaginians continued in power, we were
necessarily exposed to all manner of troubles; for the enemy were on our frontiers; you, our
friends, were at a distance; and all our dependence was on our arms. But after that pest was
extirpated, we were happy in the enjoyment of tranquillity, as having no enemies but such as
you should happen to appoint us. But lo! on a sudden, Jugurtha, stalking forth with intolerable
audacity, wickedness, and arrogance, and having put to death my brother, his own cousin, made
his territory, in the first place, the prize of his guilt; and next, being unable to ensnare
me with similar stratagems, he rendered me, when under your rule I expected any thing rather
than violence or war, an exile, as you see, from my country and my home, the prey of poverty
and misery, and safer any where than in my own kingdom.

I was always of opinion, Conscript Fathers, as I had often heard my father observe, that those
who cultivated your friendship might indeed have an arduous service to perform, but would be
of all people the most secure. What our family could do for you, it has done; it has supported
you in all your wars; and it is for you to provide for our safety in time of peace. Our father
left two of us, brothers; a third, Jugurtha, he thought would be attached to us by the benefits
conferred upon him; but one of us has been murdered, and I, the other, have scarcely escaped
the hand of lawlessness.[51] What course can I now take? Unhappy that I am, to what place,
rather than another, shall I betake myself? All the props of our family are extinct; my father,
of necessity, has paid the debt of nature; a kinsman, whom least of all men it became, has
wickedly taken the life of my brother; and as for my other relatives, and friends, and connections,
various forms of destruction have overtaken them. Seized by Jugurtha, some have been crucified,
and some thrown to wild beasts, while a few, whose lives have been spared, are shut up in the
darkness of the dungeon, and drag on, amid suffering and sorrow, an existence more grievous
than death itself.

If all that I have lost, or all that, from being friendly, has become hostile to me,[52] remained
unchanged, yet, in case of any sudden calamity, it is of you that I should still have to implore
assistance, to whom, from the greatness of your empire, justice and injustice in general should
be objects of regard. And at the present time, when I am exiled from my country and my home,
when I am left alone, and destitute of all that is suitable to my dignity, to whom can I go,
or to whom shall: I appeal, but to you? Shall I go to nations and kings, who, from our friendship
with Rome, are all hostile to my family? Could I go, indeed, to any place where there are not
abundance of hostile monuments of my ancestors? Will any one, who, has ever been at enmity
with you, take pity upon me?

Masinissa, moreover, instructed us, Conscript Fathers, to cultivate no friendship but that
of Rome, to adopt no new leagues or alliances, as we should find, in your good-will, abundance
of efficient support; while, if the fortune of your empire should change, we must sink together
with it. But, by your own merits, and the favor of the gods, you are great and powerful; the
whole world regards you with favor and yields to your power; and you are the better able, in
consequence, to attend to the grievances of your allies. My only fear is, that private friendship
for Jugurtha, too little understood, may lead any of you astray; for his partisans, I hear,
are doing their utmost in his behalf, soliciting and importuning you individually, to pass
no decision against one who is absent, and whose cause is yet untried; and saying that I state
what is false, and only pretend to be an exile, when I might, if I pleased, have remained still
in my kingdom. But would that I could see him,[53] by whose unnatural crime I am thus reduced
to misery, pretending as I now pretend; and would that, either with you or with the immortal
gods, there may at length arise some regard for human interests; for then assuredly will he,
who is now audacious and triumphant in guilt, be tortured by every kind of suffering, and pay
a heavy penalty for his ingratitude to my father, for the murder of my brother, and for the
distress which he has brought upon myself.

And now, O my brother, dearest object of my affection, though thy life has been prematurely
taken from thee, and by a hand that should have been the last to touch it, yet I think thy
fate a subject for rejoicing rather than lamentation, for, in losing life, thou hast not been
cut off from a throne, but from flight, expatriation, poverty, and all those afflictions which
now press upon me. But I, unfortunate that I am, cast from the throne of my father into the
depths of calamity, afford an example of human vicissitudes, undecided what course to adopt,
whether to avenge thy wrongs, while I myself stand in need of assistance, or to attempt the
recovery of my kingdom, while my life or death depends on the aid of others.[54]

Would that death could be thought an honorable termination to my misfortunes, that I might
not seem to live an object of contempt, if, sinking under my afflictions, I tamely submit to
injustice. But now I can neither live with pleasure, nor can die without disgrace.[55] I implore
you, therefore, Conscript Fathers, by your regard for yourselves,[56] for your children, and
for your parents, and by the majesty of the Roman people, to grant me succor in my distress,
to arrest the progress of injustice, and not to suffer the kingdom of Numidia, which is your
own property, to sink into ruin[57] through villainy and the slaughter of our family."

XV. When the prince had concluded his speech, the embassadors of Jugurtha, depending more on
their money than their cause, replied, in a few words, "that Hiempsal had been put to death
by the Numidians for his cruelty; that Adherbal, commencing war of his own accord, complained,
after he was defeated, of being unable to do injury; and that Jugurtha entreated the senate
not to consider him a different person from what he had been known to be at Numantia, nor to
set the assertions of his enemy above his own conduct."

Both parties then withdrew from the senate-house, and the senate immediately proceeded to deliberate.
The partisans of the embassadors, with a great many others, corrupted by their influence, expressed
contempt for the statements of Adherbal, extolled with the highest encomiums the merits of
Jugurtha, and exerted themselves as strenuously, with their interest and eloquence, in defense
of the guilt and infamy of another, as they would have striven for their own honor. A few,
however, on the other hand, to whom right and justice were of more estimation than wealth,
gave their opinion that Adherbal should be assisted, and the murder of Hiempsal severely avenged.
Of all these the most forward was Aemilius Scaurus,[58] a man of noble birth and great energy,
but factious, and ambitious of power, honor, and wealth; yet an artful concealer of his own
vices. He, seeing that the bribery of Jugurtha was notorious and shameless, and fearing that,
as in such cases often happens, its scandalous profusion might excite public odium, restrained
himself from the indulgence of his ruling passion.[59]

XVI. Yet that party gained the superiority in the senate, which preferred money and interest
to justice. A decree was made, "that ten commissioners should divide the kingdom, which Micipsa
had possessed, between Jugurtha and Adherbal." Of this commission the leading person was Lucius
Opimius,[60] a man of distinction, and of great influence at that time in the senate, from
having in his consulship, on the death of Caius Gracchus and Marcus Fulvius Flaccus, prosecuted
the victory of the nobility over the plebeians with great severity.

Jugurtha, though he had already counted Scaurus among his friends at Rome, yet received him
with the most studied ceremony, and, by presents and promises, wrought on him so effectually,
that he preferred the prince's interest to his own character, honor, and all other considerations.
The rest of the commissioners he assailed in a similar way, and gained over most of them; by
a few only integrity was more regarded than lucre. In the division of the kingdom, that part
of Numidia which borders on Mauretania, and which is superior in fertility and population,
was allotted to Jugurtha; of the other part, which, though better furnished with harbors and
buildings, was more valuable in appearance than in reality, Adherbal became the possessor.

XVII. My subject seems to require of me, in this place, a brief account of the situation of
Africa, and of those nations in it with whom we have had war or alliances. But of those tracts
and countries, which, from their heat, or difficulty of access, or extent of desert, have been
but little visited, I can not possibly give any exact description. Of the rest I shall speak
with all possible brevity.

In the division of the earth, most writers consider Africa as a third part; a few admit only
two divisions, Asia and Europe,[61] and include Africa in Europe. It is bounded, on the west,
by the strait connecting our sea with the ocean;[62] on the east, by a vast sloping tract,
which the natives call the Catabathmos.[63] The sea is boisterous, and deficient in harbors;
the soil is fertile in corn, and good for pasturage, but unproductive of trees. There is a
scarcity of water both from rain and from landsprings. The natives are healthy, swift of foot,
and able to endure fatigue. Most of them die by the gradual decay of age,[64] except such as
perish by the sword or beasts of prey; for disease finds but few victims. Animals of a venomous
nature they have in great numbers.

Concerning the original inhabitants of Africa, the settlers that afterward joined them, and
the manner in which they intermingled, I shall offer the following brief account, which, though
it differs from the general opinion, is that which was interpreted to me from the Punic volumes
said to have belonged to King Hiempsal[65], and which the inhabitants of that country believe
to be consistent with fact. For the truth of the statement, however, the writers themselves
must be responsible.

XVIII. Africa, then, was originally occupied by the Getulians and Libyans,[66] rude and uncivilized
tribes, who subsisted on the flesh of wild animals, or, like cattle, on the herbage of the
soil. They were controlled neither by customs, laws, nor the authority of any ruler; they wandered
about, without fixed habitations, and slept in the abodes to which night drove them. But after
Hercules, as the Africans think, perished in Spain, his army, which was composed of various
nations,[67] having lost its leader, and many candidates severally claiming the command of
it, was speedily dispersed. Of its constituent troops, the Medes, Persians, and Armenians,[68]
having sailed over into Africa, occupied the parts nearest to our sea.[69] The Persians, however,
settled more toward the ocean,[70] and used the inverted keels of their vessels for huts, there
being no wood in the country, and no opportunity of obtaining it, either by purchase or barter,
from the Spaniards; for a wide sea, and an unknown tongue, were barriers to all intercourse.
These, by degrees, formed intermarriages with the Getulians; and because, from constantly trying
different soils, they were perpetually shifting their abodes, they called themselves NUMIDIANS.[71]
And to this day the huts of the Numidian boors, which they call mapalia, are of an oblong shape,
with curved roofs; resembling the hulls of ships.

The Medes and Armenians connected themselves with the Libyans, who dwelled near the African
sea; while the Getulians lay more to the sun,[72] not far from the torrid heats; and these
soon built themselves towns,[73] as, being separated from Spain only by a strait, they proceeded
to open an intercourse with its inhabitants. The name of Medes the Libyans gradually corrupted,
changing it, in their barbarous tongue, into Moors.[74]

Of the Persians[75] the power rapidly increased; and at length, the children, through excess
of population, separating from the parents, they took possession, under the name of Numidians,
of those regions bordering on Carthage which are now called Numidia. In process of time, the
two parties,[76] each assisting the other, reduced the neighboring tribes, by force or fear,
under their sway; but those who had spread toward our sea, made the greater conquests: for
the Lybians are less warlike than the Getulians[77] At last nearly all lower Africa[78] was
occupied by the Numidians; and all the conquered tribes were merged in the nation and name
of their conquerors.

XIX. At a later period, the Phoenicians, some of whom wished to lessen their numbers at home,
and others, ambitious of empire, engaged the populace, and such as were eager for change, to
follow them, founded Hippo,[79] Adrumetum, Leptis,[80] and other cities, on the sea-coast;
which, soon growing powerful, became partly a support, and partly an honor, to their parent
state. Of Carthage I think it better to be silent, than to say but little; especially as time
bids me hasten to other matters.

Next to the Catabathmos,[81] then, which divides Egypt from Africa, the first city along the
sea-coast[82] is Cyrene, a colony of Theraeans;[83] after which are the two Syrtes,[84] with
Leptis[85] between them; then the Altars of the Philaeni,[86] which the Carthaginians considered
the boundary of their dominion on the side of Egypt; beyond these are the other Punic towns.
The other regions, as far as Mauretania, the Numidians occupy; the Moors are nearest to Spain.
To the south of Numidia,[87] as we are informed, are the Getulians, of whom some live in huts,
and others lead a vagrant and less civilized life; beyond these are the Ethiopians; and further
on, regions parched by the heat of the sun.

At the time of the Jugurthine war, most of the Punic towns, and the territories which Carthage
had lately possessed,[88] were under the government of Roman praetors; a great part of the
Getulians, and Numidia as far as the river Mulucha, were subject to Jugurtha; while the whole
of the Moors were governed by Bocchus, a king who knew nothing of the Romans but their name,
and who, before this period, was as little known to us, either in war or peace. Of Africa and
its inhabitants I have now said all that my narrative requires.

XX. When the commissioners, after dividing the kingdom, had left Africa, and Jugurtha saw that,
contrary to his apprehensions, he had obtained the object of his crimes; he then being convinced
of the truth of what he had heard from his friends at Numantia, "that all things were purchasable
at Rome," and being also encouraged by the promises of those whom he had recently loaded with
presents, directed his views to the domain of Adherbal. He was himself bold and warlike, while
the other, at whose destruction he aimed, was quiet, unfit for arms, of a mild temper, a fit
subject for injustice, and a prey to fear rather than an object of it. Jugurtha, accordingly,
with a powerful force, made a sudden irruption into his dominions, took several prisoners,
with cattle and other booty, set fire to the buildings, and made hostile demonstrations against
several places with his cavalry. He then retreated, with all his followers, into his own kingdom,
expecting that Adherbal, roused by such provocation, would avenge his wrongs by force, and
thus furnish a pretext for war. But Adherbal, thinking himself unable to meet Jugurtha in the
field, and relying on the friendship of the Romans more than on the Numidians, merely sent
embassadors to Jugurtha to complain of the outrage; and, although they brought back but an
insolent reply, yet he resolved to endure any thing rather than have recourse to war, which,
when he attempted it before, had ended in his defeat. By such conduct the eagerness of Jugurtha
was not at all allayed; for he had now, indeed, in imagination, possessed himself of all Adherbal's
dominions. He therefore renewed hostilities, not, as before, with a predatory band, but at
the head of a large army which he had collected, and openly aspired to the sovereignty of all
Numidia. Wherever he marched, he ravaged the towns and the fields, drove off booty, and raised
confidence in his own men and dismay among the enemy.

XXI. Adherbal, when he found that matters had arrived at such a point, that he must either
abandon his dominions, or defend them by force of arms, collected an army from necessity, and
advanced to meet Jugurtha. Both armies took up[89] their position near the town of Cirta[90],
at no great distance from the sea; but, as evening was approaching, encamped without coming
to an engagement. But when the night was far advanced, and twilight was beginning to appear[91],
the troops of Jugurtha, at a given signal, rushed into the camp of the enemy, whom they routed
and put to flight, some half asleep and others resuming their arms. Adherbal, with a few of
his cavalry, fled to Cirta; and, had there not been a number of Romans[92] in the town, who
repulsed his Numidian pursuers from the walls, the war between the two princes would have been
begun and ended on the same day.

Jugurtha proceeded to invest the town, and attempted to storm it with the aid of mantelets,
towers, and every kind of machines; being anxious above all things, to take it before the ambassadors
could arrive at Rome, who, he was informed, had been dispatched thither by Adherbal before
the battle was fought. But as soon as the senate heard of their contention, three young men[93]
were sent as deputies into Africa, with directions to go to both of the princes, and to announce
to them, in the words of the senate and people of Rome, "that it was their will and resolution
that they should lay down their arms, and settle their disputes rather by arbitration than
by the sword; since to act thus would be to the honor both of the Romans and themselves."

XXII. These deputies soon arrived in Africa, using the greater dispatch, because, while they
were preparing for their journey, a report was spread at Rome of the battle which had been
fought, and of the siege of Cirta; but this report told much less than the truth[94] Jugurtha,
having given them an audience, replied, "that nothing was of greater weight with him, nothing
more respected, than the authority of the senate; that it had been his endeavor, from his youth,
to deserve the esteem of all men of worth; that he had gained the favor of Publius Scipio,
a man of the highest eminence, not by dishonorable practices, but by merit; that, for the same
good qualities, and not from want of heirs to the throne, he had been adopted by Micipsa; but
that, the more honorable and spirited his conduct had been, the less could his feelings endure
injustice; that Adherbal had formed designs against his life on discovering which, he had counteracted
his malice; that the Romans would act neither justly nor reasonably, if they withheld from
him the common right of nations;[96] and, in conclusion, that he would soon send embassadors
to Rome to explain the whole of his proceedings." On this understanding, both parties separated.
Of addressing Adherbal the deputies had no opportunity.

XXIII. Jugurtha, as soon as he thought that they had quitted Africa, surrounded the walls of
Cirta, which, from the nature of its situation, he was unable to take by assault, with a rampart
and a trench; he also erected towers, and manned them with soldiers; he made attempts on the
place, by force or by stratagem, day and night; he held out bribes, and some times menaces,
to the besieged; he roused his men, by exhortations, to efforts of valor, and resorted, with
the utmost perseverance, to every possible expedient.

Adherbal, on the other hand, seeing that his affairs were in a desperate condition, that his
enemy was determined on his ruin, that there was no hope of succor, and that the siege, from
want of provisions, could not long be protracted, selected from among those who had fled with
him to Cirta, two of his most resolute supporters, whom he induced, by numerous promises, and
an affecting representation of his distress, to make their way in the night, through the enemy's
lines, to the nearest point of the coast, and from thence to Rome.

XXIV. The Numidians, in a few days executed their commission; and a letter from Adherbal was
read in the senate, of which the following was the purport:

"It is not through my own fault, Conscript Fathers, that I so often send requests to you; but
the violence of Jugurtha compels me; whom so strong a desire for my destruction has seized,
that he pays no regard[96] either to you or to the immortal gods; my blood he covets beyond
every thing. Five months, in consequence, have I, the ally and friend of the Roman people,
been besieged with an armed force; neither the remembrance of my father Micipsa's benefits,
nor your decrees, are of any avail for my relief; and whether I am more closely pressed by
the sword, or by famine, I am unable to say.

From writing further concerning Jugurtha, my present condition deters me; for I have experienced,
even before,[97] that little credit is given to the unfortunate. Yet I can perceive that his
views extend further than to myself, and that he does not expect to possess, at the same time,
your friendship and my kingdom; which of the two he thinks the more desirable, must be manifest
to every one. For, in the first place, he murdered my brother Hiempsal; and, in the next, expelled
me from my dominions; which, however, may be regarded as our own wrongs, and as having no reference
to you. But now he occupies your kingdom with an army; he keeps me, whom you appointed a king
over the Numidians, in a state of blockade; and in what estimation he holds the words of your
embassadors, my perils may serve to show. What then is left, except your arms, that can make
an impression upon him?

I could wish, indeed, that what I now write, as well as the complaints which I lately made
before the senate, were false, rather than that my present distresses should confirm the truth
of my statements. But since I am born to be an example of Jugurtha's villainy, I do not now
beg a release from death or distress, but only from the tyranny of an enemy, and from bodily
torture. Respecting the kingdom of Numidia, which is your own property, determine as you please,
but if the memory of my grandfather Masinissa is still cherished by you, deliver me, I entreat
you, by the majesty of your empire, and by the sacred ties of friendship, from the inhuman
hands of Jugurtha."

XXV. When this letter was read, there were some who thought that an army should be dispatched
into Africa, and relief afforded to Adherbal, as soon as possible; and that the senate, in
the mean time, should give judgment on the conduct of Jugurtha, in not having obeyed the embassadors.
But by the partisans of Jugurtha, the same that had before supported his cause, effectual exertions
were made to prevent any decree from being passed; and thus the public interest, as is too
frequently the case, was defeated by private influence.

An embassy was, however, dispatched into Africa, consisting of men of advanced years, and of
noble birth, and who had filled the highest offices of the state; among whom was Marcus Scaurus,
already mentioned, a man who had held the consulship, and who was at that time chief of the
senate[98]. These embassadors, as their business was an affair of public odium, and as they
were urged by the entreaties of the Numidians, embarked in three days; and having soon arrived
at Utica, sent a letter from thence to Jugurtha, desiring him "to come to the province as quickly
as possible, as they were deputed by the senate to meet him."

Jugurtha, when he found that men of eminence, whose influence at Rome he knew to be powerful,
were come to put a stop to his proceedings, was at first perplexed, and distracted between
fear and cupidity. He dreaded the displeasure of the senate, if he should disobey the embassadors;
while his eager spirit, blinded by the lust of power, hurried him on to complete the injustice
which he had begun. At length the evil incitements of ambition prevailed[99]. He accordingly
drew his army round the city of Cirta, and endeavored, with his utmost efforts, to force an
entrance; having the strongest hopes, that, by dividing the attention of the enemy's troops,
he should be able, by force or artifice, to secure an opportunity of success. When his attempts,
however, were unavailing, and he found himself unable, as he had designed, to get Adherbal
into his power before he met the embassadors, fearing that, by further delay, he might irritate
Scaurus, of whom he stood in great dread, he proceeded with a small body of cavalry into the
Province. Yet, though serious menaces were repeated to him in the name of the senate, because
he had not desisted from the siege, nevertheless, after spending a long time in conference,
the embassadors departed without making any impression upon him.

XXVI. When news of this result was brought to Cirta, the Italians[100], by whose exertions
the city had been defended, and who trusted that, if a surrender were made, they would be able,
from respect to the greatness of the Roman power, to escape without personal injury, advised
Adherbal to deliver himself and the city to Jugurtha, stipulating only that his life should
be spared, and leaving all other matters to the care of the senate. Adherbal, though he thought
nothing less trustworthy than the honor of Jugurtha, yet, knowing that those who advised could
also compel him if he resisted, surrendered the place according to their desire. Jugurtha immediately
proceeded to put Adherbal to death with torture, and massacred all the inhabitants that were
of age, whether Numidians or Italians, as each fell in the way of his troops.

XXVII. When this outrage was reported at Rome, and became a matter of discussion in the senate,
the former partisans of Jugurtha applied themselves, by interrupting the debates and protracting
the time, sometimes exerting their interest, and sometimes quarreling with particular members,
to palliate the atrocity of the deed. And had not Caius Memmius, one of the tribunes of the
people elect, a man of energy, and hostile to the power of the nobility, convinced the people
of Rome that an attempt was being made, by the agency of a small faction, to have the crimes
of Jugurtha pardoned, it is certain that the public indignation against him would have passed
off under the protraction of the debates; so powerful was party interest, and the influence
of Jugurtha's money. When the senate, however, from consciousness of misconduct, became afraid
of the people, Numidia and Italy, by the Sempronian law,[101] were appointed as provinces to
the succeeding consuls, who were declared to be Publius Scipio Nasica[102], and Lucius Bestia
Calpurnius[103]. Numidia fell to Calpurnius, and Italy to Scipio. An army was then raised to
be sent into Africa; and pay, and all other necessaries of war, were decreed for its use.

XXVIII. When Jugurtha received this news, which was utterly at variance with his expectations,
as he had felt convinced that all things were purchasable at Rome, he sent his son, with two
of his friends, as deputies to the senate, and directed them, like those whom he had sent on
the murder of Hiempsal, to attack every body with bribes. Upon the approach of these deputies
to Rome, the senate was consulted by Bestia, whether they would allow them to be admitted within
the gates; and the senate decreed, "that, unless they came to surrender Jugurtha's kingdom
and himself, they must quit Italy within the ten following days." The consul directed this
decree to be communicated to the Numidians, who consequently returned home without effecting
their object.

Calpurnius, in the mean time, having raised an army, chose for his officers men of family and
intrigue, hoping that whatever faults he might commit, would be screened by their influence;
and among these was Scaurus, of whose disposition and character we have already spoken. There
were, indeed, in our consul Calpurnius, many excellent qualities, both mental and personal,
though avarice interfered with the exercise of them; he was patient of labor, of a penetrating
intellect, of great foresight, not inexperienced in war, and extremely vigilant against danger
and surprise.

The troops were conducted through Italy to Rhegium, from thence to Sicily, and from Sicily
into Africa; and Calpurnius's first step, after collecting provisions, was to invade Numidia
with spirit, where he took many prisoners, and several towns, by force of arms.

XXIX. But when Jugurtha began, through his emissaries, to tempt him with bribes, and to show
the difficulties of the war which he had undertaken to conduct, his mind, corrupted with avarice,
was easily altered. His accomplice, however, and manager in all his schemes, was Scaurus; who,
though he had at first, when most of his party were corrupted, displayed violent hostility
to Jugurtha, yet was afterward seduced, by a vast sum of money, from integrity and honor to
injustice and perfidy. Jugurtha, however, at first sought only to purchase a suspension of
hostilities, expecting to be able, during the interval, to make some favorable impression,
either by bribery or by interest, at Rome; but when he heard that Scaurus was co-operating
with Calpurnius, he was elated with great hopes of regaining peace, and resolved upon a conference
with them in person respecting the terms of it. In the mean time, for the sake of giving confidence
[104] to Jugurtha, Sextus the quaestor was dispatched by the consul to Vaga, one of the prince's
towns; the pretext for his journey being the receiving of corn, which Calpurnius had openly
demanded from Jugurtha's emissaries, on the ground that a truce was observed through their
delay to make a surrender. Jugurtha then, as he had determined, paid a visit to the consul's
camp, where, having made a short address to the council, respecting the odium cast upon his
conduct, and his desire for a capitulation, he arranged other matters with Bestia and Scaurus
in secret; and the next day, as if by an evident majority of voices[105], he was formally allowed
to surrender. But, as was demanded in the hearing of the council, thirty elephants, a considerable
number of cattle and horses, and a small sum of money, were delivered into the hands of the
quaestor. Calpurnius then returned to Rome to preside at the election of magistrates[106],
and peace was observed throughout Numidia and the Roman army.

XXX. When rumor had made known the affairs transacted in Africa, and the mode in which they
had been brought to pass, the conduct of the consul became a subject of discussion in every
place and company at Rome. Among the people there was violent indignation; as to the senators,
whether they would ratify so flagitious a proceeding, or annul the act of the consul, was a
matter of doubt. The influence of Scaurus, as he was said to be the supporter and accomplice
of Bestia, was what chiefly restrained the senate from acting with justice and honor. But Caius
Memmius, of whose boldness of spirit, and hatred to the power of the nobility, I have already
spoken, excited the people by his harangues, during the perplexity and delay of the senators,
to take vengeance on the authors of the treaty; he exhorted them not to abandon the public
interest or their own liberty; he set before them the many tyrannical and violent proceedings
of the nobles, and omitted no art to inflame the popular passions. But as the eloquence of
Memmius, at that period, had great reputation and influence I have thought proper to give in
full[107] one out of many of his speeches; and I take, in preference to others, that which
he delivered in the assembly of the people, after the return of Bestia, in words to the following
effect:

XXXI. "Were not my zeal for the good of the state, my fellow-citizens, superior to every other
feeling, there are many considerations which would deter me from appearing in your cause; I
allude to the power of the opposite party, your own tameness of spirit, the absence of all
justice, and, above all, the fact that integrity is attended with more danger than honor. Indeed,
it grieves me to relate, how, during the last fifteen years[108], you have been a sport to
the arrogance of an oligarchy; how dishonorably, and how utterly unavenged, your defenders
have perished[109]; and how your spirit has become degenerate by sloth and indolence; for not
even now, when your enemies are in your power, will you rouse yourselves to action, but continue
still to stand in awe of those to whom you should be a terror.

Yet, notwithstanding this state of things, I feel prompted to make an attack on the power of
that faction. That liberty of speech[110], therefore, which has been left me by my father,
I shall assuredly exert against them; but whether I shall use it in vain, or for your advantage,
must, my fellow-citizens, depend upon yourselves. I do not, however, exhort you, as your ancestors
have often done, to rise in arms against injustice.

There is at present no need of violence, no need of secession; for your tyrants must work their
fall by their own misconduct.

After the murder of Tiberius Gracchus, whom they accused of aspiring to be king, persecutions
were instituted against the common people of Rome; and after the slaughter of Caius Gracchus
and Marcus Fulvius, many of your order were put to death in prison. But let us leave these
proceedings out of the question; let us admit that to restore their rights to the people, was
to aspire to sovereignty; let us allow that what can not be avenged without shedding the blood
of citizens, was done with justice. You have seen with silent indignation, however, in past
years, the treasury pillaged; you have seen kings, and free people, paying tribute to a small
party of Patricians, in whose hands were both the highest honors and the greatest wealth; but
to have carried on such proceedings with impunity, they now deem but a small matter; and, at
last, your laws and your honor, with every civil and religious obligation[111], have been sacrificed
for the benefit of your enemies. Nor do they, who have done these things, show either shame
or contrition, but parade proudly before your faces, displaying their sacerdotal dignities,
their consulships, and some of them their triumphs, as if they regarded them as marks of honor,
and not as fruits of their dishonesty. Slaves, purchased with money[112], will not submit to
unjust commands from their masters; yet you, my fellow-citizens, who are born to empire, tamely
endure oppression.

But who are these that have thus taken the government into their hands? Men of the most abandoned
character, of blood-stained hands, of insatiable avarice, of enormous guilt, and of matchless
pride; men by whom integrity, reputation, public spirit[113], and indeed every thing, whether
honorable or dishonorable, is converted to a means of gain. Some of them make it their defense
that they have killed tribunes of the people; others, that they have instituted unjust prosecutions;
others, that they have shed your blood; and thus, the more atrocities each has committed, the
greater is his security; while your oppressors, whom the same desires, the same aversions,
and the same fears, combine in strict union (a union which among good men is friendship, but
among the bad confederacy in guilt), have excited in you, through your want of spirit, that
terror which they ought to feel for their own crimes.

But if your concern to preserve your liberty were as great as their ardor to increase their
power of oppression, the state would not be distracted as it is at present; and the marks of
favor which proceed from you[114], would be conferred, not on the most shameless, but on the
most deserving. Your forefathers, in order to assert their rights and establish their authority,
twice seceded in arms to Mount Aventine; and will not you exert yourselves, to the utmost of
your power, in defense of that liberty which you received from them? Will you not display so
much the more spirit in the cause, from the reflection that it is a greater disgrace to lose[115]
what has been gained, than not to have gained it at all?

But some will ask me, 'What course of conduct, then, would you advise us to pursue?' I would
advise you to inflict punishment on those who have sacrificed the interests of their country
to the enemy; not, indeed, by arms, or any violence (which would be more unbecoming, however,
for you to inflict than for them to suffer), but by prosecutions, and by the evidence of Jugurtha
himself, who, if he has really surrendered, will doubtless obey your summons; whereas, if he
shows contempt for it, you will at once judge what sort of a peace or surrender it is, from
which springs impunity to Jugurtha for his crimes, immense wealth to a few men in power, and
loss and infamy to the republic.

But perhaps you are not yet weary of the tyranny of these men; perhaps these times please you
less than those[116] when kingdoms, provinces, laws, rights, the administration of justice,
war and peace, and indeed every thing civil and religious, was in the hands of an oligarchy;
while you, that is, the people of Rome, though unconquered by foreign enemies, and rulers of
all nations around, were content with being allowed to live; for which of you had spirit to
throw off your slavery? For myself, indeed, though I think it most disgraceful to receive an
injury without resenting it, yet I could easily allow you to pardon these basest of traitors,
because they are your fellow-citizens, were it not certain that your indulgence would end in
your destruction. For such is their presumption, that to escape punishment for their misdeeds
will have but little effect upon them, unless they be deprived, at the same time, of the power
of doing mischief; and endless anxiety will remain for you, if you shall have to reflect that
you must either be slaves or preserve your liberty by force of arms.

Of mutual trust, or concord, what hope is there? They wish to be lords, you desire to be free;
they seek to inflict injury, you to repel it; they treat your allies as enemies, your enemies
as allies. With feelings so opposite, can peace or friendship subsist between you? I warn,
therefore, and exhort you, not to allow such enormous dishonesty to go unpunished. It is not
an embezzlement of the public money[117] that has been committed; nor is it a forcible extortion
of money from your allies; offenses which, though great, are now, from their frequency, considered
as nothing; but the authority of the senate, and your own power, have been sacrificed to the
bitterest of enemies, and the public interest has been betrayed for money, both at home and
abroad; and unless these misdeeds be investigated, and punishment be inflicted on the guilty,
what remains for us but to live the slaves of those who committed them? For those who do what
they will with impunity are undoubtedly kings.[118]

I do not, however, wish to encourage you, O Romans, to be better satisfied at finding your
fellow-citizens guilty than innocent, but merely to warn you not to bring ruin on the good,
by suffering the bad to escape. It is far better, in any government, to be unmindful of a service
than of an injury; for a good man, if neglected, only becomes less active; but a bad man, more
daring. Besides, if the crimes of the wicked are suppressed,[119] the state will seldom need
extraordinary support from the virtuous."

XXXII. By repeating these and similar sentiments, Memmius prevailed on the people to send Lucius
Cassius,[120] who was then praetor, to Jugurtha, and to bring him, under guarantee of the public
faith[121], to Rome, in order that, by the prince's evidence, the misconduct of Scaurus and
the rest, whom they charged with having taken bribes, might more easily be made manifest.

During the course of these proceedings at Rome, those whom Bestia had left in Numidia in command
of the army, following the example of their general, had been guilty of many scandalous transactions.
Some, seduced by gold, had restored Jugurtha his elephants; others had sold him his deserters;
others had ravaged the lands of those at peace with us; so strong a spirit of rapacity, like
the contagion of a pestilence, had pervaded the breasts of all.

Cassius, when the measure proposed by Memmius had been carried, and while all the nobility
were in consternation, set out on his mission to Jugurtha, whom, alarmed as he was, and despairing
of his fortune, from a sense of guilt, he admonished "that since he had surrendered himself
to the Romans, he had better make trial of their mercy than their power." He also pledged his
own word, which Jugurtha valued not less than that of the public, for his safety. Such, at
that period, was the reputation of Cassius.

XXXIII. Jugurtha, accordingly, accompanied Cassius to Rome, but without any mark of royalty,
and in the garb, as much as possible, of a suppliant[122]; and, though he felt great confidence
on his own part, and was supported by all those through whose power or villainy he had accomplished
his projects, he purchased, by a vast bribe, the aid of Caius Baebius, a tribune of the people,
by whose audacity he hoped to be protected against the law, and against all harm.

An assembly of the people being convoked, Memmius, although they were violently exasperated
against Jugurtha, (some demanding that he should be cast into prison, others that, unless he
should name his accomplices in guilt, he should be put to death, according to the usage of
their ancestors, as a public enemy), yet, regarding rather their character than their resentment,
endeavored to calm their turbulence and mitigate their rage; and assured them that, as far
as depended on him, the public faith should not be broken. At length, when silence was obtained,
he brought forward Jugurtha, and addressed them. He detailed the misdeeds of Jugurtha at Rome
and in Numidia, and set forth his crimes toward his father and brothers; and admonished the
prince, "that the Roman people, though they were well aware by whose support and agency he
had acted, yet desired further testimony from himself; that, if he disclosed the truth, there
was great hope for him in the honor and clemency of the Romans; but if he concealed it, he
would certainly not save his accomplices, but ruin himself and his hopes forever."

XXXIV. But when Memmius had concluded his speech, and Jugurtha was expected to give his answer,
Caius Baebius, the tribune of the people, whom I have just noticed as having been bribed, enjoined
the prince to hold his peace[123]; and though the multitude, who formed the assembly, were
desperately enraged, and endeavored to terrify the tribune by outcries, by angry looks, by
violent gestures, and by every other act to which anger prompts[124], his audacity was at last
triumphant. The people, mocked and set at naught, withdrew from the place of assembly; and
the confidence of Jugurtha, Bestia, and the others, whom this investigation had alarmed, was
greatly augmented. XXXV. There was at this period in Rome a certain Numidian named Massiva,
a son of Gulussa and grandson of Masinissa, who, from having been, in the dissensions among
the princes, opposed to Jugurtha, had been obliged, after the surrender of Cirta and the murder
of Adherbal, to make his escape out of Africa. Spurius Albinus, who was consul with Quintus
Minucius Rufus the year after Bestia, prevailed upon this man, as he was of the family of Masinissa,
and as odium and terror hung over Jugurtha for his crimes, to petition the senate for the kingdom
of Numidia. Albinus, being eager for the conduct of a war, was desirous that affairs should
be disturbed[125], rather than sink into tranquillity; especially as, in the division of the
provinces, Numidia had fallen to himself, and Macedonia to Minucius.

When Massiva proceeded to carry these suggestions into execution, Jugurtha, finding that he
had no sufficient support in his friends, as a sense of guilt deterred some, and evil report
or timidity others, from coming forward in his behalf, directed Bomilcar, his most attached
and faithful adherent, to procure by the aid of money, by which he had already effected so
much, assassins to kill Massiva; and to do it secretly if he could; but, if secrecy should
be impossible, to cut him off in any way whatsoever. This commission Bomilcar soon found means
to execute; and, by the agency of men versed in such service, ascertained the direction of
his journeys, his hours of leaving home, and the times at which he resorted to particular places
[126], and, when all was ready, placed his assassins in ambush. One of their number sprung
upon Massiva, though with too little caution, and killed him; but being himself caught, he
made, at the instigation of many, and especially of Albinus the consul, a full confession.
Bomilcar was accordingly committed for trial, though rather on the principles of reason and
justice than in accordance with the law of nations[127], as he was in the retinue of one who
had come to Rome on a pledge of the public faith for his safety. But Jugurtha, though clearly
guilty of the crime, did not cease to struggle against the truth, until he perceived that the
infamy of the deed was too strong for his interest or his money. For which reason, although,
at the commencement of the proceedings[128], he had given fifty of his friends as bail for
Bomilcar, yet, thinking more of his kingdom than of the sureties, he sent him off privately
into Numidia; for he feared that if such a man should be executed, his other subjects would
be deterred from obeying him[129]. A few days after, he himself departed, having been ordered
by the senate to quit Italy. But, as he was going from Rome, he is said, after frequently looking
back on it in silence, to have at last exclaimed, "That it was a venal city, and would soon
perish, if it could but find a purchaser!"[130]

XXXVI. The war being now renewed, Albinus hastened to transport provisions, money, and other
things necessary for the army, into Africa, whither he himself soon followed, with the hope
that, before the time of the comitia, which was not far distant, he might be able, by an engagement,
by capitulation, or by some other method, to bring the contest to a conclusion.

Jugurtha, on the other hand, tried every means of protracting the war, continually inventing
new causes for delay; at one time he promised to surrender, at another he feigned distrust;
he retreated when Albinus attacked him, and then, lest his men should lose courage, attacked
in return, and thus amused the consul with alternate procrastinations of war and of peace.

There were some, at that time, who thought that Albinus understood Jugurtha's object, and who
believed that so ready a protraction of the war, after so much haste at the commencement, was
to be attributed less to tardiness than to treachery. However this might be, Albinus, when
time passed on, and the day of the comitia approached, left his brother Aulus in the camp as
propraetor[131], and returned to Rome.

XXXVII. The republic, at this time, was grievously distracted by the contentions of the tribunes.
Two of them, Publius Lucullus and Lucius Annius, were struggling against the will of their
colleagues, to prolong their term of office; and this dispute put off the comitia throughout
the year[132]. In consequence of this delay, Aulus, who, as I have just said, was left as propraetor
in the camp, conceiving hopes either of finishing the war, or of extorting money from Jugurtha
by the terror of his army, drew out his troops in the month of January, from their winter-quarters
into the field, and by forced marches, during severe weather, made his way to the town of Suthul,
where Jugurtha's treasures were deposited. And though this place, both from the inclemency
of the season, and from its advantageous situation, could neither be taken nor besieged; for
around its walls, which were built on the edge of a steep hill[133], a marshy plain, flooded
by the rains of winter, had been converted into a lake; yet Aulus, either as a feint to strike
terror into Jugurtha, or blinded by avarice, began to move forward his vineae[134], to cast
up a rampart, and to hasten all necessary preparations for a siege.

XXXVIII. Jugurtha, seeing the propraetor's vanity and ignorance, artfully strengthened his
infatuation; he sent him, from time to time, deputies with submissive messages, while he himself,
as if desirous to escape, led his army away through woody defiles and cross-roads. At length
he succeeded in alluring Aulus, by the prospect of a surrender on conditions, to leave Suthul,
and pursue him, as if in full retreat, into the remoter parts of the country. Meanwhile, by
means of skillful emissaries, he tampered night and day with our men, and prevailed on some
of the officers, both of infantry and cavalry, to desert to him at once, and upon others to
quit their posts at a given signal, that their defection might thus be less observed[135].
Having prepared matters according to his wishes, he suddenly surrounded the camp of Aulus,
in the dead of night, with a vast body of Numidians. The Roman soldiers were alarmed with an
unusual disturbance; some of them seized their arms, others hid themselves, others encouraged
those that were afraid; but consternation prevailed every where; for the number of the enemy
was great, the sky was thick with clouds and darkness, the danger was indiscernible, and it
was uncertain whether it were safer to flee or to remain. Of those whom I have just mentioned
as being bribed, one cohort of Ligurians, with two troops of Thracian horse, and a few common
soldiers, went over to Jugurtha; and the chief centurion[136] of the third legion allowed the
enemy an entrance at the very post which he had been appointed to defend, and at which all
the Numidians poured into the camp. Our men fled disgracefully, the greater part having thrown
away their arms, and took possession of a neighboring hill. Night, and the spoils of the camp,
prevented the enemy from making full use of this victory. On the following day, Jugurtha, coming
to a conference with Aulus, told him, "that though he held him hemmed in by famine and the
sword, yet that, being mindful of human vicissitudes, he would, if they would make a treaty
with him, allow them to depart uninjured; only that they must pass under the yoke, and quit
Numidia within ten days." These terms were severe and ignominious; but, as death was the alternative[137],
peace was concluded as Jugurtha desired.

XXXIX. When this affair was made known at Rome, consternation and dismay pervaded the city;
some were concerned for the glory of the republic; others, ignorant of war, trembled for their
liberty. But all were indignant at Aulus, and especially those who had been distinguished in
the field, because, with arms in his hands, he had sought safety in disgrace rather than in
resistance. The consul Albinus, apprehending, from the delinquency of his brother, odium and
danger to himself, consulted the senate on the treaty which had been made, but, at the same
time, raised recruits for the army, sent for auxiliaries to the allies and Latins, and made
general preparations for war. The senate, as was just, decreed, "that no treaty could be made
without their own consent and that of the people."

The consul, though he was hindered by the influence of the tribunes from taking with him the
force which he had raised, set out in a few days for the province of Africa, where the whole
army, being withdrawn, according to the agreement, from Numidia, had gone into winter-quarters.
When he arrived there, although he longed to pursue Jugurtha, and diminish the odium that had
fallen on his brother, yet, when he saw the state of the troops, whom, besides the flight and
relaxation of discipline, licentiousness, and debauchery had corrupted, he determined, under
all the circumstances of the case[138], to attempt nothing.

XL. At Rome, in the mean time, Caius Mamilius Limetanus, one of the tribunes, proposed that
the people should pass a bill for instituting an inquiry into the conduct of those by whose
influence Jugurtha had set at naught the decrees of the senate, as well as of those who, whether
as embassadors or commanders, had received money from him, or who had restored to him his elephants
and deserters, or had made any compacts with the enemy relative to peace or war. To this bill
some, who were conscious of guilt, and others, who apprehended danger from the jealousy of
parties, secretly raised obstructions through the agency of friends, and especially of men
among the Latins and Italian allies[139], since they could not openly resist it, without admitting
that these and similar practices met their approbation. But as to the people, it is incredible
what eagerness they displayed, and with what spirit they approved, voted, and passed the bill,
though rather from hatred to the nobility, against whom these severe measures were directed,
than from concern for the republic; so violent was the fury of party.

While the rest of the delinquents were in trepidation, Marcus Scaurus [140], whom I have previously
noticed as Bestia's lieutenant, contrived, amid the exultation of the populace, the dismay
of his own party, and the continued agitation in the city, to have himself elected one of the
three commissioners who were appointed by the bill of Mamilius to carry it into execution.
But the investigation, notwithstanding, was conducted [141] with great rigor and violence,
under the influence of common rumor and popular caprice; for the insolence of success, which
had often distinguished the nobility, on this occasion characterized the people.

XLI. The prevalence of parties among the people, and of factions in the senate, and of all
evil practices attendant on them, had its origin at Rome, a few years before, during a period
of tranquillity, and amid the abundance of all that mankind regarded as desirable. For, before
the destruction of Carthage, the senate and people managed the affairs of the republic with
mutual moderation and forbearance; there were no contests among the citizens for honor or ascendency;
but the dread of an enemy kept the state in order. When that fear, however, was removed from
their minds, licentiousness and pride, evils which prosperity loves to foster, immediately
began to prevail; and thus peace, which they had so eagerly desired in adversity, proved, when
they had obtained it, more grievous and fatal than adversity itself. The patricians carried
their authority, and the people their liberty, to excess; every man took, snatched, and seized[142]
what he could. There was a complete division into two factions, and the republic was torn in
pieces between them. Yet the nobility still maintained an ascendency by conspiring together;
for the strength of the people, being disunited and dispersed among a multitude, was less able
to exert itself. Things were accordingly directed, both at home and in the field, by the will
of a small number of men, at whose disposal were the treasury, the provinces, offices, honors,
and triumphs; while the people were oppressed with military service and with poverty, and the
generals divided the spoils of war with a few of their friends. The parents and children of
the soldiers,[143] meantime, if they chanced to dwell near a powerful neighbor, were driven
from their homes. Thus avarice, leagued with power, disturbed, violated, and wasted every thing,
without moderation or restraint; disregarding alike reason and religion, and rushing headlong,
as it were, to its own destruction. For whenever any arose among the nobility[144], who preferred
true glory to unjust power, the state was immediately in a tumult, and civil discord spread
with as much disturbance as attends a convulsion of the earth.

XLII. Thus when Tiberius and Caius Gracchus, whose forefathers had done much to increase the
power of the state in the Punic and other wars, began to vindicate the liberty of the people,
and to expose the misconduct of the few, the nobility, conscious of guilt, and seized with
alarm, endeavored, sometimes by means of the allies and Latins[145], and sometimes by means
of the equestrian order, whom the hope of coalition with the patricians had detached from the
people, to put a stop to the proceedings of the Gracchi; and first they killed Tiberius, and
a few years after Caius, who pursued the same measures as his brother, the one when he was
tribune, and the other when he was one of a triumvirate for settling colonies; and with them
they cut off Marcus Fulvius Flaccus. In the Gracchi, indeed, it must be allowed that, from
their ardor for victory, there was not sufficient prudence. But to a reasonable man it is more
agreeable to submit[146] to injustice than to triumph over it by improper means. The nobility,
however, using their victory with wanton extravagance, exterminated numbers of men by the sword
or by exile, yet rather increased, for the time to come, the dread with which they were regarded,
than their real power. Such proceedings have often ruined powerful states; for of two parties,
each strives to suppress the other by any means whatever, and take vengeance with undue severity
on the vanquished.

But were I to attempt to treat of the animosities of parties, and of the morals of the state,
with minuteness of detail, and suitably to the vastness of the subject, time would fail me
sooner than matter. I therefore return to my subject.

XLIII. After the treaty of Aulus, and the disgraceful flight of our army, Quintus Metellus
and Marcus Silanus, the consuls elect, divided the provinces between them; and Numidia fell
to Metellus, a man of energy, and, though an opponent of the popular party, yet of a character
uniformly irreproachable[147]. He, as soon as he entered on his office, regarded all other
things as common to himself and his colleague[148], but directed his chief attention to the
war which he was to conduct. Distrusting, therefore, the old army, he began to raise new troops,
to procure auxiliaries from all parts, and to provide arms, horses, and other military requisites,
besides provisions in abundance, and every thing else which was likely to be of use in a war
varied in its character, and demanding great resources. To assist in accomplishing these objects,
the allies and Latins, by the appointment of the senate, and different princes[149] of their
own accord, sent supplies; and the whole state exerted itself in the cause with the greatest
zeal. Having at length prepared and arranged every thing according to his wishes, Metellus
set out for Numidia, attended with sanguine expectations on the part of his fellow-citizens,
not only because of his other excellent qualities, but especially because his mind was proof
against gold; for it was through the avarice of our commanders, that, down to this period,
our affairs in Numidia had been ruined, and those of the enemy rendered prosperous.

XLIV. When he arrived in Africa, the command of the army was resigned to him by Albinus, the
proconsul[150]; but it was an army spiritless and unwarlike; incapable of encountering either
danger or fatigue; more ready with the tongue than with the sword; accustomed to plunder our
allies, while itself was the prey of the enemy; unchecked by discipline, and void of all regard
to its character. The new general, accordingly, felt more anxiety from the corrupt morals of
the men, than confidence or hope from their numbers. He determined, however, though the delay
of the comitia had shortened his summer campaign, and though he knew his countrymen to be anxious
for the result of his proceedings, not to commence operations, until, by a revival of the old
discipline, he had brought the soldiers to bear fatigue. For Albinus, dispirited by the disaster
of his brother Aulus and his army, and having resolved not to leave the province during the
portion of the summer that he was to command, had kept the soldiers, for the most part, in
a stationary camp[151], except when stench, or want of forage, obliged them to remove. But
neither had the camp been fortified[152], nor the watches kept, according to military usage;
every one had been allowed to leave his post when he pleased. The camp-followers, mingled with
the soldiers, wandered about day and night, ravaging the country, robbing the houses, and vying
with each other in carrying off cattle and slaves, which they exchanged with traders for foreign
wine[153] and other luxuries; they even sold the corn, which was given them from the public
store, and bought bread from day to day; and, in a word, whatever abominations, arising from
idleness and licentiousness, can be expressed or imagined, and even more, were to be seen in
that army.

XLV. But I am assured that Metellus, in these difficult circumstances, no less than in his
operations against the enemy, proved himself a great and wise man; so just a medium did he
observe between an affectation of popularity and an excessive enforcement of discipline. His
first measure was to remove incentives to idleness, by a general order that no one should sell
bread, or any other dressed provisions, in the camp; that no sutlers should follow the army;
and that no common soldier should have a servant, or beast of burden, either in a camp or on
a march. He made the strictest regulations, too, with regard to other things.[154] He moved
his camp daily, exercising the soldiers by marches across the country; he fortified it with
a rampart and a trench, exactly as if the enemy had been at hand; he placed numerous sentinels[155]
by night, and went the rounds with his officers; and, when the army was on the march; he would
be at one time in the front, at another in the rear, and at another in the center, to see that
none quitted their ranks, that the men kept close to their standards, and that every soldier
carried his provisions and his arms. Thus by preventing rather than punishing irregularities,
he in a short time rendered his army effective.

XLVI. Jugurtha, meantime, having learned from his emissaries how Metellus was proceeding, and
having heard, when he was in Rome, of the integrity of the consul's character, began to despair
of his plans, and at length actually endeavored to effect a capitulation. He therefore sent
deputies to the consul with proposals of submission, stipulating only for his own life and
that of his children, and offering to surrender every thing else to the Romans. But Metellus
had already learned by experience, that the Numidians were a faithless race, of unsettled disposition,
and fond of change; and he accordingly applied himself to each of the deputies separately,
and after gradually sounding them, and finding them proper instruments for his purpose, prevailed
on them, by large promises, to deliver Jugurtha into his hands; bringing him alive, if they
could, or dead, if to take him alive was impracticable. In public, however, he directed that
such an answer should be given to the king as would be agreeable to his wishes.

A few days afterward, he led the army, which was now vigorous and resolute, into Numidia, where,
instead of any appearance of war, he found the cottages full of people, and the cattle and
laborers in the fields, while the officers of Jugurtha came from the towns and villages[156]
to meet him, offering to supply him with corn, to convey provisions for him, and to do whatever
might be required of them. Metellus, notwithstanding, made no diminution in the caution with
which he marched, but kept as much upon the defensive as if an enemy had been at hand; and
he dispatched scouts to explore the country, thinking that these signs of submission were but
pretense, and that the Numidians were watching an opportunity for treachery. He himself, with
some light-armed cohorts, and a select body of slingers and archers, advanced always in the
front; while Caius Marius, his lieutenant-general, at the head of the cavalry, had charge of
the rear. The auxiliary horse, distributed among the tribunes of the legions and prefects of
the cohorts, he placed on the flanks, so that, with the aid of the light troops mixed with
them, they might repel the enemy whenever an approach should be made. For such was the subtlety
of Jugurtha, and such his knowledge of the country and the art of war, that it was doubtful
whether he was more formidable absent or present, offering peace or threatening hostilities.

XLVII. There lay, not far from the route which Metellus was pursuing, a city of the Numidians
named Vaga, the most celebrated place for trade in the whole kingdom, in which many Italian
merchants were accustomed to reside and traffic. Here the consul, to try the disposition of
the inhabitants, and, should they allow him, to take advantage of the situation of the place[157],
established a garrison, and ordered the people to furnish him with corn, and other necessaries
for war; thinking, as circumstances indeed suggested, that the concourse of merchants, and
frequent arrival of supplies[158], would add strength to his army, and further the plans which
he had already formed.

In the midst of these proceedings, Jugurtha, with extraordinary earnestness[159], sent deputies
to sue for peace, offering to resign every thing to Metellus, except his own life and that
of his children. These, like the former, the consul first reduced to treachery, and then sent
back; the peace which Jugurtha asked, he neither granted nor refused, but waited, during these
delays, the performance of the deputies' promises. XLVIII. Jugurtha, on comparing the words
of Metellus with his actions, perceived that he was assailed with his own artifices; for though
peace was offered him in words, a most vigorous war was in reality pursued against him; one
of his strongest cities was wrested from him; his country was explored by the enemy, and the
affections of his subjects alienated. Being compelled, therefore, by the necessity of circumstances,
he resolved to try the fortune of a battle. Having, with this view, informed himself of the
exact route of the enemy, and hoping for success from the advantage of the ground, he collected
as large a force of every kind as he could, and, marching by cross-roads, got in advance of
Metellus' army.

There was, in that part of Numidia, of which, on the division of the kingdom, Adherbal had
become possessor, a river named Muthul, flowing from the south; and, about twenty miles from
it, was a range of mountains running parallel with the stream[160], wild and uncultivated;
but from the center of it stretched a kind of hill, reaching to a vast distance, covered with
wild olives, myrtles, and other trees, such as grow in a dry and sandy soil. The plain, which
lay between the mountains and the Muthul, was uninhabited from want of water, except the parts
bordering on the river, which were planted with trees, and full of cattle and inhabitants.

XLIX. On this hill, which I have just mentioned, stretching in a transverse direction[161],
Jugurtha took post with his line drawn out to a great length. The command of the elephants,
and of part of the infantry, he committed to Bomilcar, and gave him instructions how to act.
He himself, with the whole of the cavalry and the choicest of the foot, took his station nearer
to the range of mountains. Then, riding round among the several squadrons and battalions, he
exhorted and conjured them to call to mind their former prowess and triumphs, and to defend
themselves and their country from Roman rapacity; saying that they would have to engage with
those whom they had already conquered and sent under the yoke, and that, though their commander
was changed, there was no alteration in their spirit. He added, that he had provided for his
men every thing becoming a general; that he had chosen the higher ground, where they, being
well acquainted with the country[162], would contend with adversaries ignorant of it; nor would
they engage, inferior in numbers and skill, with a larger or more experienced force; and that
they should, therefore, be ready, when the signal should be given, to fall vigorously on the
Romans, as that day would either crown[163] all their labors and victories, or be a prelude
to the most grievous calamities. He also addressed himself, individually, to any one whom he
had rewarded with money or honors for military desert, reminding him of his favors, and pointing
him out as an example to the rest; and finally he excited all his men, some in one way and
some in another, by threats or entreaties, according to the different dispositions of each.

Metellus, who was still ignorant of the enemy's position, was now seen[164] descending the
mountain with his army. He was at first doubtful what the strange appearance before him indicated;
for the Numidians, both cavalry and infantry, had taken post among the wood, not entirely concealing
themselves, by reason of the lowness of the trees, yet rendering it uncertain[165] what they
were, as both themselves and their standards were screened as well by the nature of the ground
as by artifice; but soon perceiving that there were men in ambush, he halted awhile, and, having
altered the arrangement of his troops, he drew up those in the right wing, which was nearest
to the enemy, in three lines[166]; he distributed the slingers and archers among the infantry,
posted all the cavalry on the flanks, and having made a brief address, such as time permitted,
to his men, he led them down, with the front changed into a flank[167], toward the plain.

L. But when he observed that the Numidians remained quiet, and did not offer to descend from
the hill, he became apprehensive that his army, from the season of the year and the scarcity
of water, might be overcome with thirst, and therefore sent Rutilius, one of his lieutenant-generals,
with the light-armed cohorts and a detachment of cavalry, toward the river, to secure ground
for an encampment, expecting that the enemy, by frequent charges and attacks on his flank,
would endeavor to impede his march, and, as they despaired of success in arms, would try the
effect of fatigue and thirst on his troops.

He then continued to advance by degrees, as his circumstances and the ground permitted, in
the same order in which he had descended from the range of mountains. He assigned Marius his
post behind the front line[168], and took on himself the command of the cavalry on the left
wing, which, on the march, had become the van[169].

When Jugurtha perceived that the rear of the Roman army had passed his first line, he took
possession of that part of the mountain from which Metellus had descended, with a body of about
two thousand infantry, that it might not serve the enemy, if they were driven back, as a place
of retreat, and afterward as a post of defense; and then, ordering the signal to be given,
suddenly commenced his attack. Some of his Numidians made havoc in the rear of the Romans,
while others assailed them on the right and left wings; they all advanced and charged furiously,
and every where threw the consul's troops into confusion. Even those of our men who made the
stoutest resistance, were baffled by the enemy's versatile method of fighting, and wounded
from a distance, without having the power of wounding in return, or of coming to close combat;
for the Numidian cavalry, as they had been previously instructed by Jugurtha, retreated whenever
a troop of Romans attempted to pursue them, but did not keep in a body, or collect themselves
into one place, but dispersed as widely as possible. Thus, being superior in numbers, if they
could not deter the Romans from pursuing, they surrounded them, when disordered, on the rear
or flank, or, if the hill seemed more convenient for retreat than the plain, the Numidian horses,
being accustomed to the brushwood, easily made their way among it, while the difficulty of
the ascent, and want of acquaintance with the ground, impeded those of the Romans.

LI. The aspect of the whole struggle[170] was indeed various, perplexing, direful, and lamentable;
the men, separated from their comrades, were partly fleeing, partly pursuing; neither standards
nor ranks were regarded, but wherever danger pressed, there they made a stand and defended
themselves; arms and weapons, horses and men, enemies, and fellow-countrymen, were all mingled
in confusion; nothing was done by direction or command, but chance ordered every thing. Though
the day, therefore, was now far advanced, the event of the contest was still uncertain. At
last, however, when all were faint with exertion and the heat of the day, Metellus, observing
that the Numidians were less vigorous in their charges, drew his troops together by degrees,
restored order among them, and led four cohorts of the legions against the enemy's infantry,
of whom a great number, overcome with fatigue, had seated themselves on the high ground. He
at the same time entreated and exhorted his men not to lose courage, nor to suffer a flying
enemy to be victorious; adding that they had neither camp nor citadel to which they could flee,
but that their only dependence was on their arms. Nor was Jugurtha, in the mean time, inactive;
he rode round among his troops, cheered them, renewed the contest, and, at the head of a select
body, made every possible effort for victory; supporting his own men, charging such of the
enemy as wavered, and repressing with missiles such as he saw remaining unshaken.

LII. Thus did these two commanders, both eminent men, maintain the contest against each other.
In personal ability they were equal, but in circumstances unequal. Metellus had resolute troops,
but a disadvantageous position; Jugurtha had every thing in his favor except men. At last the
Romans, seeing that they had no place of refuge, that the enemy allowed no opportunity for
a regular engagement, and that the evening was fast approaching, forced their way, according
to the orders which were given, up the hill. The Numidians were thus driven from their position,
routed, and put to flight; a few of them were slain, but their speed, and the enemy's ignorance
of the country[171], saved the greater number of them.

Meanwhile Bomilcar, who, as I have said before, was appointed by Jugurtha over the elephants
and a part of the infantry, having seen Rutilius pass by him, led down his men gradually into
the plain, and while Rutilius hastened to the river, to which he had been dispatched, quietly
drew them up in such order as circumstances required; not omitting, at the same time, to watch
every movement of the enemy. When he learned that Rutilius had taken his position, and seemed
free from apprehension of danger, and heard, at the same time, an increasing noise where Jugurtha
was engaged, fearing lest the lieutenant-general, taking the alarm, should go to the support
of his countrymen in difficulties, he, in order to intercept his march, increased the extent
of his lines, which, from distrust of the bravery of his men, he had previously condensed,
and advanced in this order toward Rutilius' camp.

LIII. The Romans, on a sudden, observed a vast cloud of dust, which, as the ground, thickly
covered with brushes, obstructed their view, they at first supposed to be only sand raised
by the wind; but at length, when they saw that it continued uniform, and approached nearer
and nearer as the line advanced, they understood the real cause of it, and, hastily seizing
their arms, drew up, as their commander directed, before the camp. When the enemy came up,
both sides rushed to the encounter with loud shouts. But the Numidians maintained the contest
only as long as they trusted for support to their elephants; for, when they saw the animals
entangled in the boughs of the trees, and dispersed or surrounded by the enemy, they betook
themselves to flight, and most of them, having thrown away their arms, escaped, by favor of
the hill, or of the night, which was now coming on, without injury. Of the elephants, four
were taken, and the rest, to the number of forty, were killed.

The Romans, though fatigued and exhausted[172] with their march, the construction of their
camp, and the engagement, yet, as Metellus was longer in coming than they expected, advanced
to meet him in regular and steady order. The subtlety of the Numidians, indeed, allowed them
neither rest nor relaxation. But as the two parties drew together, in the obscurity of the
night, each occasioned, by a noise like that of enemies approaching, alarm and trepidation
in the other; and, had not parties of horse, sent forward from both sides, ascertained the
truth, a fatal disaster was on the point of happening from the mistake. However, in place of
fear, joy quickly succeeded; the soldiers met with mutual congratulations, relating their adventures,
or listening to those of others, and each extolling his own achievements to the skies. For
thus it is with human affairs; in success, even cowards may boast; while defeat lowers the
character even of heroes.

LIV. Metellus remained four days in the same camp. He carefully provided for the recovery of
the wounded, rewarded, in military fashion, such as had distinguished themselves in the engagements,
and praised and thanked them all in a public address; exhorting them to maintain equal resolution
in their future labors, which would be less arduous, as they had fought sufficiently for victory,
and would now have to contend only for spoil. In the mean time he dispatched deserters, and
other eligible persons, to ascertain where Jugurtha was, or what he was doing; whether he had
but few followers, or a large army; and how he conducted himself under his defeat. The prince,
he found, had retreated to places full of wood, well defended by nature, and was there collecting
an army, which would be more numerous indeed than the former, but inactive and inefficient,
as being composed of men better acquainted with husbandry and cattle than with war. This had
happened from the circumstance, that, in case of flight, none of the Numidian troops, except
the royal cavalry, follow their king; the rest disperse, wherever inclination leads them; nor
is this thought any disgrace to them as soldiers, such being the custom of the people.

Metellus, therefore, seeing that Jugurtha's spirit was still unsubdued; that a war was being
renewed, which could only be conducted[173] according to the prince's pleasure; and that he
was struggling with the enemy on unequal terms, as the Numidians suffered a defeat with less
loss than his own men gained a victory, he resolved to manage the contest, not by pitched battles
or regular warfare, but in another method. He accordingly marched into the richest parts of
Numidia, captured and burned many fortresses and towns, which were insufficiently or wholly
undefended, put the youth to the sword, and gave up every thing else as plunder to his soldiers.
From the terror caused by these proceedings, many persons were given up as hostages to the
Romans; corn, and other necessaries, were supplied in abundance; and garrisons were admitted
wherever Metellus thought fit.

These measures alarmed Jugurtha much more than the loss of the late battle; for he, whose whole
security lay in flight, was compelled to pursue; and he who could not defend his own part of
the kingdom, was obliged to make war in that which was occupied by others. Under these circumstances,
however[174], he adopted what seemed the most eligible plan. He ordered the main body of his
army to continue stationary; while he himself, with a select troop of cavalry, went in pursuit
of Metellus, and coming upon him unperceived, by means of night marches and by-roads, he fell
upon such of the Roman as were straggling about, of whom the greater number, being unarmed,
were slain, and several others made prisoners; not one of them, indeed, escaped unharmed; and
the Numidians, before assistance could arrive from the camp, fled, as they had been ordered,
to the nearest hills.

LV. In the mean time great joy appeared at Rome when the proceedings of Metellus were reported,
and when it was known how he was conducting himself and his army conformably to the ancient
discipline; how, on adverse ground, he had gained a victory by his valor; how he was securing
possession of the enemy's territory; and how he had driven Jugurtha, when elated by the weakness
of Aulus, to depend for safety on the desert or on flight. For these successes, accordingly,
the senate decreed a thanksgiving[175] to the immortal gods; the city, which had been full
of anxiety, and apprehensive as to the event of the war, was now filled with joy; and the fame
of Metellus was raised to the utmost height.

The consul's eagerness to gain a complete victory was thus increased; he exerted himself in
every possible way, taking care, at the same time, to give the enemy no opportunity of attacking
him to advantage. He remembered that envy is the concomitant of glory, and thus, the more renowned
he became, the greater was his caution and circumspection. He never went out to plunder, after
the sudden attack of Jugurtha, with his troops in scattered parties; when corn or forage was
sought, a body of cohorts, with the whole of the cavalry, were stationed as a guard. He himself
conducted part of the army, and Marius the rest. The country was wasted, however, more by fire
than by spoliation. They had separate camps, not far from each other; whenever there was occasion
for force, they formed a union; but, that desolation and terror might spread the further, they
acted separately. Jugurtha, meanwhile, continued to follow them along the hills, watching for
a favorable opportunity or situation for an attack. He destroyed the forage, and spoiled the
water, which was scarce, wherever he found that the enemy were coming. He presented himself
sometimes to Metellus, and sometimes to Marius; he would attack their rear upon a march, and
instantly retreat to the hills; he would threaten sometimes one point, and sometimes another,
neither giving battle nor allowing rest, but making it his great object to retard the progress
of the enemy.

LVI. The Roman commander, finding himself thus harassed by artifices, and allowed no opportunity
of coming to a general engagement, resolved on laying siege to a large city, named Zama, which
was the bulwark of that part of the kingdom in which it was situate; expecting that Jugurtha,
as a necessary consequence, would come to the relief of his subjects in distress, and that
a battle would then follow. But the king, being apprised by some deserters of the consul's
design, reached the place, by rapid marches, before him, and exhorted the inhabitants to defend
their walls, giving them, as a reinforcement, a body of deserters; a class of men, who, of
all the royal forces, were the most to be trusted, inasmuch as they dared not be guilty of
treachery[176]. He also promised to support them, whenever it should be necessary, with his
whole army.

Having taken these precautions, he retired into the deserts of the interior; where he soon
after learned that Marius, with a few cohorts, had been dispatched from the line of march to
bring provisions from Sicca[177], a town which had been the first to revolt from him after
his defeat. To this place he hastened by night, accompanied by a select body of cavalry, and
attacked the Romans at the gate, just as they were leaving the city; calling to the inhabitants,
at the same time, with a loud voice, to surround the cohorts in the rear; adding, that Fortune
had given them an opportunity for a glorious exploit; and that, if they took advantage of it,
he would henceforth enjoy his kingdom, and they their liberty, without fear. And had not Marius
hastened to advance the standards, and to escape from the town, it is certain that all, or
the greater part of the inhabitants, would have changed their allegiance; so great is the fickleness
which the Numidians exhibit in their conduct. The soldiers of Jugurtha, animated for a time
by their king, but finding the enemy pressing them with superior force, betook themselves,
after losing a few of their number, to flight.

LVII. Marius arrived at Zama. This town, built on a plain, was better fortified by art than
by nature. It was well supplied with necessaries, and contained plenty of arms and men. Metellus,
having made arrangements suitable for the time and the place, encompassed the whole city with
his army, assigning to each of his officers his post of command. At a given signal, a loud
shout was raised on every side, but without exciting the least alarm in the Numidians, who
awaited the attack full of spirit and resolution. The assault was consequently commenced; the
Romans were allowed to act each according to his inclination; some annoyed the enemy with slings
and stones from a distance; others came close up to the walls, and attempted to undermine or
scale them, desiring to engage in close combat with the besieged. The Zamians, on the other
hand, rolled down stones, and hurled burning stakes, javelins[178], and wood smeared with pitch
and sulphur, on the nearest assailants. Nor was caution a sufficient protection to those who
kept aloof; for darts, discharged from engines or by the hand, inflicted wounds on most of
them; and thus the brave and the timid, though of unequal merit, were exposed to equal danger.

LVIII. While the struggle was thus continued at Zama, Jugurtha, at the head of a large force,
suddenly attacked the camp of the Romans, and, through the remissness of those left to guard
it, who expected any thing rather than an attack, effected an entrance at one of the gates.
Our men, struck with sudden consternation, acted each on his own impulse; some fled, others
seized their arms; and many of them were wounded or slain. About forty, however, out of the
whole number mindful of the honor of Rome, formed themselves into a body, and took possession
of a slight eminence, from which they could not be dislodged by the utmost efforts of the enemy,
but hurled back the darts discharged at them, and, as they were few against many, not without
execution. If the Numidians came near them, they displayed their courage, and slaughtered,
repulsed, and dispersed them, with the greatest fury. Metellus, meanwhile, who was vigorously
pursuing the siege, heard a noise, as of enemies, in his rear, and, turning round his horse,
perceived a party of soldiers in flight toward him; a certain proof that they were his own
men. He instantly, therefore, dispatched the whole of the cavalry to the camp, and immediately
afterward Caius Marius, with the cohorts of the allies, entreating him with tears, by their
mutual friendship, and by his regard for the public welfare, to allow no stain to rest on a
victorious army, and not to let the enemy escape with impunity. Marius soon executed his orders.
Jugurtha, in consequence, after being embarrassed in the intrenchments of the camp, while some
of his men threw themselves over the ramparts, and others, in their haste, obstructed each
other at the gates, fled, with considerable loss, to his strongholds, Metellus, not succeeding
in his attempt on the town, retired with his forces, at the approach of night, into his camp.

LIX. On the following day, before he marched out to resume the siege, he ordered the whole
of his cavalry to take their station before the camp, on the side where the approach of Jugurtha
was to be apprehended; assigning the gates, and adjoining posts, to the charge of the tribunes.
He then marched toward the town, and commenced an assault upon the walls as on the day before.
Jugurtha, meanwhile, issuing from his concealment, suddenly attacked our men in the camp, of
whom those stationed in advance were for the moment alarmed and thrown into confusion; but
the rest soon came to their support; nor would the Numidians have longer maintained their ground,
had not their foot, which were mingled with the cavalry, done great execution in the struggle;
for the horse, relying on the infantry, did not, as is common in actions of cavalry, charge
and then retreat, but pressed impetuously forward, disordering and breaking the ranks, and
thus, with the aid of the light-armed foot, almost succeeded in giving the army a defeat[179].

LX. The conflict at Zama, at the same time, was continued with great fury. Wherever any lieutenant
or tribune commanded, there the men exerted themselves with the utmost vigor. No one seemed
to depend for support on others, but every one on his own exertions. The townsmen, on the other
side, showed equal spirit. Attacks, or preparations for defense, were made in all quarters[180].
All appeared more eager to wound their enemies than to protect themselves. Shouts, mingled
with exhortations, cries of joy, and the clashing of arms, resounded through the heavens. Darts
flew thick on every side. If the besiegers, however, in the least relaxed their efforts, the
defenders of the walls immediately turned their attention to the distant engagement of the
cavalry; they were to be seen sometimes exhibiting joy, and sometimes apprehension, according
to the varying fortune of Jugurtha, and, as if they could be heard or seen by their friends,
uttering warnings or exhortations, making signs with their hands, and moving their bodies to
and fro, like men avoiding or hurling darts. This being noticed by Marius, who commanded on
that side of the town, he artfully relaxed his efforts, as if despairing of success, and allowed
the besieged to view the battle at the camp unmolested. Then, while their attention was closely
fixed on their countrymen, he made a vigorous assault on the wall, and the soldiers mounting
their scaling ladders, had almost gained the top, when the townsmen rushed to the spot in a
body, and hurled down upon them stones, firebrands, and every description of missiles. Our
men made head against these annoyances for a while, but at length, when some of the ladders
were broken, and those who had mounted them dashed to the ground, the rest of the assailants
retreated as they could, a few indeed unhurt, but the greater number miserably wounded. Night
put an end to the efforts of both parties.

LXI. When Metellus saw that all his attempts were vain; that the town was not to be taken;
that Jugurtha was resolved to abstain from fighting, except from an ambush, or on his own ground,
and that the summer was now far advanced, he withdrew his army from Zama, and placed garrisons
in such of the cities that had revolted to him as were sufficiently strong in situation or
fortifications. The rest of his forces he settled in winter quarters, in that part of our province
nearest to Numidia[181].

This season of repose, however, he did not, like other commanders, abandon to idleness and
luxury; but as the war had been but slowly advanced by fighting, he resolved to try the effect
of treachery on the king through his friends, and to employ their perfidy instead of arms.
He accordingly addressed himself with large promises, to Bomilcar, the same nobleman who had
been with Jugurtha at Rome, and who had fled from thence, notwithstanding he had given bail,
to escape being tried for the murder of Massiva; selecting this person for his instrument,
because, from his great intimacy with Jugurtha, he had the best opportunities of betraying
him. He prevailed on him, in the first place, to come to a conference with him privately, when,
having given him his word, "that, if he should deliver up Jugurtha, alive or dead, the senate
would grant him a pardon, and the full possession of his property," he easily brought him over
to his purpose, especially as he was naturally faithless, and also apprehensive that, if peace
were made with the Romans, he himself would be surrendered to justice by the terms of it.

LXII. Bomilcar took the earliest opportunity of addressing Jugurtha, at a time when he was
full of anxiety, and lamenting his ill success. He exhorted and implored him, with tears in
his eyes, to take at length some thought for himself and his children, as well as for the people
of Numidia, who had so much claim upon him. He reminded him that they had been, defeated in
every battle; that the country was laid waste; that numbers of his subjects had been captured
or slain; that the resources of the kingdom were greatly reduced; that the valor of his soldiers,
and his own fortune, had been already sufficiently tried; and that he should beware, lest,
if he delayed to consult for his people, his people should consult for themselves. By these
and similar appeals, he prevailed with Jugurtha to think of a surrender. Embassadors were accordingly
sent to the Roman general, announcing that Jugurtha was ready to submit to whatever he should
desire, and to trust himself and his kingdom unconditionally to his honor. Metellus, on  receiving
this statement, summoned such of his officers as were of senatorial rank, from their winter
quarters; of whom, with, others whom he thought eligible, he formed a council. By a resolution
of this assembly, in conformity with ancient usage, he demanded of Jugurtha, through his embassadors,
two hundred thousand pounds' weight of silver, all his elephants, and a portion of his horses
and arms. These requisitions being immediately complied with, he next desired that all the
deserters should be brought to him in chains. A large number of them were accordingly brought;
but a few, when the surrender first began to be mentioned, had fled into Mauretania to king
Bocchus.

When Jugurtha, however, after being thus despoiled of arms, men and money, was summoned to
appear in person at Tisidium[182], to await the consul's commands, he began again to change
his mind, dreading, from a consciousness of guilt, the punishment due to his crimes. Having
spent several days in hesitation, sometimes, from disgust at his ill success, believing any
thing better than war, and sometimes considering with himself how grievous would be the fall
from sovereignty to slavery, he at last determined, notwithstanding that he had lost so many
and so valuable means of resistance, to commence hostilities anew.

At Rome, meanwhile, the senate, having been consulted about the provinces, had decreed Numidia
to Metellus.

LXIII. About the same time, as Caius Marius, who happened to be at Utica, was sacrificing to
the gods[183], an augur told him that great and wonderful things were presaged to him; that
he might therefore pursue whatever designs he had formed, trusting to the gods for success;
and that he might try fortune as often as he pleased, for that all his undertakings would prosper.
Previously to this period an ardent longing for the consulship had possessed him; and he had,
indeed, every qualification for obtaining it, except antiquity of family; he had industry,
integrity, great knowledge of war, and a spirit undaunted in the field; he was temperate in
private life, superior to pleasure and riches, and ambitious only of glory. Having been born
at Arpinum, and brought up there during his boyhood, he employed himself, as soon as he was
of age to bear arms, not in the study of Greek eloquence, nor in learning the refinements of
the city, but in military service; and thus, amid the strictest discipline, his excellent genius
soon attained full vigor. When he solicited the people, therefore, for the military tribuneship,
he was well known by name, though most were strangers to his face, and unanimously elected
by the tribes. After this office he attained others in succession, and conducted himself so
well in his public duties, that he was always deemed worthy of a higher station than he had
reached. Yet, though such had been his character hitherto (for he was afterward carried away
by ambition), he had not ventured to stand for the consulship. The people, at that time, still
disposed of[184] other civil offices, but the nobility transmitted the consulship from hand
to hand among themselves. Nor had any commoner appeared, however famous or distinguished by
his achievements, who would not have been thought unworthy of that honor, and, as it were,
a disgrace to it[185].

LXIV. But when Marius found that the words of the augur pointed in the same direction as his
own inclinations prompted him, he requested of Metellus leave of absence, that he might offer
himself a candidate for the consulship. Metellus, though eminently distinguished by virtue,
honor, and other qualities valued by the good, had yet a haughty and disdainful spirit, the
common failing of the nobility. He was at first, therefore, astonished at so extraordinary
an application, expressed surprise at Marius's views, and advised him, as if in friendship,
"not to indulge such unreasonable expectations, or elevate his thoughts above his station;
that all things were not to be coveted by all men; that his present condition ought to satisfy
him; and, finally, that he should be cautious of asking from the Roman people what they might
justly refuse him." Having made these and similar remarks, and finding that the resolution
of Marius was not at all affected by them, he told him "that he would grant what he desired
as soon as the public business would allow him".[186] On Marius repeating his request several
times afterward, he is reported to have said, "that he need not be in a hurry to go, as he
would be soon enough if he became a candidate with his own son."[187] Metellus's son was then
on service in the camp with his father[188], and was about twenty years old.

This taunt served only to rouse the feelings of Marius, as well for the honor at which he aimed,
as against Metellus. He suffered himself to be actuated, therefore, by ambition and resentment,
the worst of counselors. He omitted nothing henceforward, either in deeds or words, that could
increase his own popularity. He allowed the soldiers, of whom he had the command in the winter
quarters, more relaxation of discipline than he had ever granted them before. He talked of
the war among the merchants, of whom there was a great number at Utica, censoriously with respect
to Metellus, and vauntingly with regard to himself; saying "that if but half of the army were
granted him, he would in a few days have Jugurtha in chains; but that the war was purposely
protracted by the consul, because, being a man of vanity and regal pride, he was too fond of
the delights of power." All these assertions appeared the more credible to the merchants, as,
by the long continuance of the war, they had suffered in their fortunes; and to impatient minds
no haste is sufficient.

LXV. There was then in our army a Numidian named Gauda, the son of Mastanabal, and grandson
of Masinissa, whom Micipsa, in his will, had appointed next heir to his immediate successors.
This man had been debilitated by ill-health, and, from the effect of it, was somewhat impaired
in his understanding. He had petitioned Metellus to allow him a seat, like a prince, next to
himself, and a troop of horse for a bodyguard; but Metellus had refused him both; the seat,
because it was granted only to those whom the Roman people had addressed as kings, and the
guard, because it would be an indignity to Roman cavalry to act as guards to a Numidian. While
Gauda was discontented at these refusals, Marius paid him a visit, and prompted him, with his
assistance, to seek revenge for the affronts put upon him by the general; inflating his mind,
which was as weak as his body,[189] with flattering speeches, telling him that he was a prince,
a great man, and the grandson of Masinissa; that if Jugurtha were taken or killed, he would
immediately become king of Numidia; and that this event might soon happen, if he himself were
sent as consul to the war.

Thus partly the influence of Marius himself, and partly the hope of obtaining peace, induced
Gauda, as well as most of the Roman knights, both soldiers and merchants,[190] to write to
their friends at Rome, in a style of censure, respecting Metellus's management of the war,
and to intimate that Marius should be appointed general. The consulship, accordingly, was solicited
for him by numbers of people, with the most honorable demonstrations in his favor.[191] It
happened that the people too, at this juncture, having just triumphed over the nobility by
the Mamilian law,[192] were eager to raise commoners to office. Hence every thing was favorable
to Marius's views.

LXVI. Jugurtha, meantime, who, after relinquishing his intention to surrender, had renewed
the war, was now hastening the preparations for it with the utmost diligence. He assembled
an army; he endeavored, by threats or promises, to recover the towns that had revolted from
him; he fortified advantageous positions;[193] he repaired or purchased arms, weapons, and
other necessaries, which he had given up on the prospect of peace; he tried to seduce the slaves
of the Romans, and even tempted with bribes the Romans themselves who occupied the garrisons;
he, indeed, left nothing untried or neglected, but put every engine in motion.

Induced by the entreaties of their king, from whom, indeed, they had never been alienated in
affection, the leading inhabitants of Vacca, a city in which Metellus, when Jugurtha began
to treat for peace, had placed a garrison, entered into a conspiracy against the Romans. As
for the common people of the town, they were, as is generally the case, and especially among
the Numidians, of a fickle disposition, factious and turbulent, and therefore already desirous
of a change, and adverse to peace and quiet. Having arranged their plans, they fixed upon the
third day following for the execution of them, because that day, being a festival, celebrated
throughout Africa, would promise merriment and dissipation rather than alarm. When the time
came, they invited the centurions and military tribunes, with Titus Turpilius Silanus, the
governor of the town, to their several houses, and butchered them all, except Turpilius, at
their banquets; and then fell upon the common soldiers, who, as was to be expected on such
a day, when discipline was relaxed, were wandering about without their arms. The populace followed
the example of their chiefs, some of them having been previously instructed to do so, and others
induced by a liking for such disorders, and, though ignorant of what had been done or intended,
finding sufficient gratification in tumult and variety.

LXVII. The Roman soldiers, perplexed with sudden alarm, and not knowing what was best for them
to do, were in trepidation. At the citadel,[194] where their standards and shields were, was
posted a guard of the enemy; and the city-gates, previously closed, prevented escape. Women
and children, too, on the roofs of the houses,[195] hurled down upon them, with great eagerness,
stones and whatever else their position furnished. Thus neither could such twofold danger be
guarded against, nor could the bravest resist the feeblest; the worthy and the worthless, the
valiant and the cowardly, were alike put to death unavenged. In the midst of this slaughter,
while the Numidians were exercising every cruelty, and the town was closed on all sides, Turpilius
was the only one, of all the Italians, that escaped unhurt. Whether his flight was the consequence
of compassion in his entertainer, of compact, or of chance, I have never discovered; but since,
in such a general massacre, he preferred inglorious safety to an honorable name, he seems to
have been a worthless and infamous character.[196]

LXVIII. When Metellus heard of what had happened at Vacca, he retired for a time, overpowered
with sorrow, from the public gaze; but at length, as indignation mingled with his grief, he
hastened, with the utmost spirit, to take vengeance for the outrage. He led forth, at sunset,
the legion that was in winter quarters with him, and as many Numidian horse as he could, and
arrived, about the third hour on the following day, at a certain plain surrounded by rising
grounds. Here he acquainted the soldiers, who were now exhausted with the length of their march,
and averse to further exertion,[197] that the town of Vacca was not above a mile distant, and
that it became them to bear patiently the toil that remained, with the hope of exacting revenge
for their countrymen, the bravest and most unfortunate of men. He likewise generously promised
them the whole of the plunder. Their courage being thus revived, he ordered them to resume
their march, the cavalry maintaining an extended line in front, and the infantry, with their
standards concealed, keeping the closest order behind.

LXIX. The people of Vacca, perceiving an army coming toward them, judged rightly at first that
it was Metellus, and shut their gates; but, after a while, when they saw that their fields
were not laid waste, and that the front consisted of Numidian cavalry, they imagined that it
was Jugurtha, and went out with great joy to meet him. A signal being immediately given, both
cavalry and infantry commenced an attack; some cut down the multitude pouring from the town,
others hurried to the gates, others secured the towers, revenge and the hope of plunder prevailing
over their weariness. Thus Vacca triumphed only two days in its treachery; the whole city,
which was great and opulent, was given up to vengeance and spoliation. Turpilius, the governor,
whom we mentioned as the only person that escaped, was summoned by Metellus to answer for his
conduct, and not being able to clear himself, was condemned, as a native of Latium,[198] to
be scourged and put to death.

LXX. About this time, Bomilcar, at whose persuasion Jugurtha had entered upon the capitulation
which he had discontinued through fear, being distrusted by the king, and distrusting him in
return, grew desirous of a change of government. He accordingly meditated schemes for Jugurtha's
destruction, racking his invention night and day. At last, to leave nothing untried, he sought
an accomplice in Nabdalsa, a man of noble birth and great wealth, who was in high regard and
favor with his countrymen, and who, on most occasions, used to command a body of troops distinct
from those of the king, and to transact all business to which Jugurtha, from fatigue, or from
being occupied with more important matters, was unable to attend;[199] employments by which
he had gained both honors and wealth. By these two men in concert, a day was fixed for the
execution of their treachery; succeeding matters they agreed to settle as the exigences of
the moment might require. Nabdalsa then proceeded to join his troops, which he kept in readiness,
according to orders, among the winter quarters of the Romans,[200] to prevent the country from
being ravaged by the enemy with impunity.

But as Nabdalsa, growing alarmed at the magnitude of the undertaking, failed to appear at the
appointed time, and allowed his fears to hinder their plans, Bomilcar, eager for their execution,
and disquieted at the timidity of his associate, lest he should relinquish his original intentions
and adopt some new course, sent him a letter by some confidential person, in which he "reproached
him with pusillanimity and irresolution, and conjured him by the gods, by whom he had sworn,
not to turn the offers of Metellus to his own destruction;" assuring him "that the fall of
Jugurtha was approaching; that the only thing to be considered was whether he should perish
by their hand or by that of Metellus; and that, in consequence, he might consider whether to
choose rewards, or death by torture."

LXXI. It happened that when this letter was brought, Nabdalsa, overcome with fatigue, was reposing
on his couch, where, after reading Bomilcar's letter, anxiety at first, and afterward, as is
usual with a troubled mind, sleep overpowered him. In his service there was a certain Numidian,
the manager of his affairs, a person who possessed his confidence and esteem, and who was acquainted
with all his designs except the last. He, hearing that a letter had arrived, and supposing
that there would be occasion, as usual, for his assistance or suggestions, went into the tent,
and, while his master was asleep, took up the letter thrown carelessly upon the cushion behind
his head,[201] and read it; and, having thus discovered the plot, set off in haste to Jugurtha.
Nabdalsa, who awoke soon after, missing the letter, and hearing of the whole affair, and how
it had happened, at first attempted to pursue the informer, but finding that pursuit was vain,
he went himself to Jugurtha to try to appease him; saying that the disclosure which he intended
to make, had been anticipated by the perfidy of his servant; and beseeching him with tears,
by his friendship, and by his own former proofs of fidelity, not to think that he could be
guilty of such treachery.

LXXII. To these entreaties the king replied with a mildness far different from his real feelings.
After putting to death Bomilcar, and many others whom he knew to be privy to the plot, he refrained
from any further manifestation of resentment, lest an insurrection should be the consequence
of it. But after this occurrence he had no peace either by day or by night; he thought himself
safe neither in any place, nor with any person, nor at any time; he feared his subjects and
his enemies alike; he was always on the watch, and was startled at every sound; he passed the
night sometimes in one place, and sometimes in another, and often in places little suited to
royal dignity; and sometimes, starting from his sleep, he would seize his arms and raise an
alarm. He was indeed so agitated by extreme terror, that he appeared under the influence of
madness.

LXXIII. Metellus, hearing from some deserters of the fate of Bomilcar, and the discovery of
the conspiracy, made fresh preparations for action, and with the utmost dispatch, as if entering
upon an entirely new war. Marius, who was still importuning him for leave of absence, he allowed
to go home; thinking that as he served with reluctance, and bore him personal enmity, he was
not likely to prove a very useful officer.

The common people at Rome, having learned the contents of the letters written from Africa concerning
Metellus and Marius, had listened to the accounts given of both with eagerness. But the noble
birth of Metellus, which had previously been a motive for paying him honor, had now become
a cause of unpopularity; while the obscurity of Marius's origin had procured him favor. In
regard to both, however, party feeling had more influence than the good or bad qualities of
either. The factious tribunes,[202] too, inflamed the populace, charging Metellus, in their
harangues, with offenses worthy of death, and exaggerating the excellent qualities of Marius.
At length the people were so excited that all the artisans and rustics, whose whole subsistence
and credit depended on their labor, quitting their several employments, attended Marius in
crowds, and thought less of their own wants than of his exaltation. Thus the nobility being
borne down, the consulship, after the lapse of many years,[203] was once more given to a man
of humble birth. And afterward, when the people were asked by Manilius Mancinus, one of their
tribunes, whom they would appoint to carry on the war against Jugurtha, they, in a full assembly,
voted it to Marius. The senate had previously decreed it to Metellus; but that decree was thus
rendered abortive.[204]

LXXIV. During this period, Jugurtha, as he was bereft of his friends (of whom he had put to
death the greater number, while the rest, under the influence of terror, had fled partly to
the Romans, and partly to Bocchus), as the war, too, could not be carried on without officers,
and as he thought it dangerous to try the faith of new ones after such perfidy among the old,
was involved in doubt and perplexity; no scheme, no counsel, no person could satisfy him; he
changed his route and his captains daily; he hurried sometimes against the enemy, and sometimes
toward the deserts; depended at one time on flight, and at another on resistance; and was unable
to decide whether he could less trust the courage or the fidelity of his subjects. Thus, to
whatever direction he turned his thoughts, the prospect was equally disheartening.

In the midst of his irresolution, Metellus suddenly made his appearance with his army. The
Numidians were assembled and drawn up by Jugurtha, as well as time permitted; and a battle
was at once commenced. Where the king commanded in person, the struggle was maintained for
some time; but the rest of his force was routed and put to flight at the first onset. The Romans
took a considerable number of standards and arms, but not many prisoners; for, in almost every
battle, their feet afforded more security to the Numidians than their swords.

LXXV. In consequence of this defeat, Jugurtha, feeling less confidence in the state of his
affairs than ever, retreated with the deserters, and part of his cavalry, first into the deserts,
and afterward to Thala,[205] a large and opulent city, where lay the greater portion of his
treasures, and where there was magnificent provision for the education of his children. When
Metellus was informed of this, although he knew that there was, between Thala and the nearest
river, a dry and desert region fifty miles broad, yet, in the hope of finishing the war if
he should gain possession of the town, he resolved to surmount all difficulties, and to conquer
even Nature herself. He gave orders that the beasts of burden, therefore, should be lightened
of all the baggage excepting ten days' provision; and that they should be laden with skins
and other utensils for holding water. He also collected from the fields as many laboring cattle
as he could find, and loaded them with vessels of all sorts, but chiefly wooden, taken from
the cottages of the Numidians. He directed such of the neighboring people, too, as had submitted
to him after the retreat of Jugurtha, to bring him as much water as they could carry, appointing
a time and a place for them to be in attendance. He then loaded his beasts from the river,
which, as I have intimated, was the nearest water to the town, and, thus provided, set out
for Thala.

When he came to the place at which he had desired the Numidians to meet him, and had pitched
and fortified his camp, so copious a fall of rain is said to have happened, as would have furnished
more than sufficient water for his whole army. Provisions, too, were brought him far beyond
his expectations; for the Numidians, like most people after a recent surrender, had done more
than was required of them.[206] The men, however, from a religious feeling, preferred using
the rain-water; the fall of which greatly increased their courage, for they thought of themselves
the peculiar care of the gods. On the next day, to the surprise of Jugurtha, they arrived at
Thala. The inhabitants, who thought themselves secured by difficulties of the approach to them,
were astonished at so strange and unexpected a sight, but, nevertheless, prepared for their
defense. Our men showed equal alacrity on their side.

LXXVI. But Jugurtha himself, believing that Metellus, who, by his exertions, had triumphed
over every obstacle, over arms, deserts, seasons, and finally over Nature herself that controls
all, nothing was impossible, fled with his children, and a great portion of his treasure, from
the city during the night. Nor did he ever, after this time, continue[207] more than one day
or night in any place; pretending to be hurried away by business, but in reality dreading treachery,
which he thought he might escape by change of residence, as schemes of such a kind are the
result of leisure and opportunity.

Metellus, seeing that the people of Thala were determined on resistance, and that the town
was defended both by art and situation, surrounded the walls with a rampart and a trench. He
then directed his machines against the most eligible points, threw up a mound, and erected
towers upon it to protect[208] the works and the workmen. The townsmen, on the other hand,
were exceedingly active and diligent; and nothing was neglected on either side. At last the
Romans, though exhausted with much previous fatigue and fighting, got possession, forty days
after their arrival, of the town, and the town only; for all the spoil had been destroyed by
the deserters; who, when they saw the walls shaken by the battering-ram, and their own situation
desperate, had conveyed the gold and silver, and whatever else is esteemed valuable, to the
royal palace, where, after being sated with wine and luxuries, they destroyed the treasures,
the building, and themselves, by fire, and thus voluntarily submitted to the sufferings which,
in case of being conquered, they dreaded at the hands of the enemy.

LXXVII. At the very time that Thala was taken, there came to Metellus embassadors from the
city of Leptis,[209] requesting him to send them a garrison and a governor; saying "that a
certain Hamilcar, a man of rank, and of a factious disposition, against whom the magistrates
and the laws were alike powerless, was trying to induce them to change sides; and that unless
he attended to the matter promptly, their own safety,[210] and the allies of Rome, would be
in the utmost danger." For the people at Leptis, at the very commencement of the war with Jugurtha,
had sent to the consul Bestia, and afterward to Rome, desiring to be admitted into friendship
and alliance with us. Having been granted their request, they continued true and faithful adherents
to us, and promptly executed all orders from Bestia, Albinus, and Metellus. They therefore
readily obtained from the general the aid which they solicited; and four cohorts of Ligurians
were dispatched to Leptis, with Caius Annius to be governor of the place.

LXXVIII. This city was built by a party of Sidonians, who, as I have understood, being driven
from their country through civil dissensions, came by sea into those parts of Africa. It is
situated between the two Syrtes, which take their name from their nature[211] These are two
gulfs almost at the extremity of Africa[212] of unequal size, but of similar character. Those
parts of them next to the land are very deep; the other parts sometimes deep and sometimes
shallow, as chance may direct; for when the sea swells, and is agitated by the winds, the waves
roll along with them mud, sand, and huge stones; and thus the appearance of the gulfs changes
with the direction of the wind.

Of this people, the language alone[213] has been altered by their intermarriages with the Numidians;
their laws and customs continue for the most part Sidonian; which they have preserved with
the greater ease, through living at so great a distance from the king's dominions.[214] Between
them and the populous parts of Numidia lie vast and uncultivated deserts.

LXXIX. Since the affairs of Leptis have led me into these regions, it will not be foreign to
my subject to relate the noble and singular act of two Carthaginians, which the place has brought
to my recollection.

At the time when the Carthaginians were masters of the greater part of Africa, the Cyrenians
were also a great and powerful people. The territory that lay between them was sandy, and of
a uniform appearance, without a stream or a hill to determine their respective boundaries;
a circumstance which involved them in a severe and protracted war. After armies and fleets
had been routed and put to flight on both sides, and each people had greatly weakened their
opponents, fearing lest some third party should attack both victors and vanquished in a state
of exhaustion, they came to an agreement, during a short cessation of arms, "that on a certain
day deputies should leave home on either side, and that the spot where they should meet should
be the common boundary between the two states." From Carthage, accordingly, were dispatched
two brothers, who were named Philaeni,[215] and who traveled with great expedition. The deputies
of the Cyrenians proceeded more slowly; but whether from indolence or accident I have not been
informed. However, a storm of wind in these deserts will cause obstruction to passengers not
less than at sea; for when a violent blast, sweeping over a level surface devoid of vegetation,[216]
raises the sand from the ground, it is driven onward with great force, and fills the mouth
and eyes of the traveler, and thus, by hindering his view, retards his progress. The Cyrenian
deputies, finding that they had lost ground, and dreading punishment at home for their mismanagement,
accused the Carthaginians of having left home before the time; quarreling about the matter,
and preferring to do any thing rather than submit. The Philaeni, upon this, asked them to name
any other mode of settling the controversy, provided it were equitable; and the Cyrenians gave
them their choice, "either that they should be buried alive in the spot which they claimed
as the boundary for their people, or that they themselves, on the same conditions, should be
allowed to go forward to whatever point they should think proper." The Philaeni, having accepted
the conditions, sacrificed themselves[217] to the interest of their country, and were interred
alive. The people of Carthage consecrated altars to the brothers on the spot; and other honors
were instituted to them at home. I now return to my subject.

LXXX. After the loss of Thala, Jugurtha, thinking no place sufficiently secure against Metellus,
fled with a few followers into the country of the Getulians, a people savage and uncivilized,
and, at that period, unacquainted with even the name of Rome. Of these barbarians he collected
a great multitude, and trained them by degrees to march in ranks, to follow standards, to obey
the word of command, and to perform other military exercises. He also gained over to his interest,
by large presents and larger promises, the intimate friends of king Bocchus, and working upon
the king by their means, induced him to commence war against the Romans. This was the more
practicable and easy, because Bocchus, at the commencement of hostilities with Jugurtha, had
sent an embassy to Rome to solicit friendship and alliance; but a faction, blinded by avarice,
and accustomed to sell their votes on every question honorable or dishonorable,[218] had caused
his advances to be rejected, though they were of the highest consequence to the war recently
begun. A daughter of Bocchus, too, was married to Jugurtha,[219] but such a connection, among
the Numidians and Moors, is but lightly regarded; for every man has as many wives as he pleases,
in proportion to his ability to maintain them; some ten, others more, but the kings most of
all. Thus the affection of the husband is divided among a multitude; no one of them becomes
a companion to him,[220] but all are equally neglected.

LXXXI. The two kings, with their armies,[221] met in a place settled by mutual agreement, where,
after pledges of amity were given and received, Jugurtha inflamed the mind of Bocchus by observing
"that the Romans were a lawless people, of insatiable covetousness, and the common enemies
of mankind; that they had the same motive for making war on Bocchus as on himself and other
nations, the lust of dominion; that all independent states were objects of hatred to them;
at present, for instance, himself; a little before, the Carthaginians had been so, as well
as king Perses; and that, in future, as any sovereign became conspicuous for his power, so
would he assuredly be treated as an enemy by the Romans."

Induced by these and similar considerations, they determined to march against Cirta, where
Metellus had deposited his plunder, prisoners, and baggage. Jugurtha supposed that, if he took
the city, there would be ample recompense for his exertions; or that, if the Roman general
came to succor his adherents, he would have the opportunity of engaging him in the field. He
also hastened this movement from policy, to lessen Bocchus's chance of peace;[222] lest, if
delay should be allowed, he should decide upon something different from war.

LXXXII. Metellus, when he heard of the confederacy of the kings, did not rashly, or in every
place, give opportunities of fighting, as he had been used to do since Jugurtha had been so
often defeated, but, fortifying his camp, awaited the approach of the kings at no great distance
from Cirta; thinking it better, when he should have learned something of the Moors,[223] as
they were new enemies in the field, to give battle on an advantage. In the mean time he was
informed, by letters from Rome, that the province of Numidia was assigned to Marius, of whose
election to the consulship he had already heard.

Being affected at these occurrences beyond what was proper and decorous, he could neither restrain
his tears nor govern his tongue; for though he was a man eminent in other respects, he had
too little firmness in bearing trouble of mind. His irritation was by some imputed to pride;
others said that a noble spirit was wounded by insult; many thought him chagrined because victory,
just attained, was snatched from his grasp. But to me it is well known that he was more troubled
at the honor bestowed on Marius than at the injustice done to himself; and that he would have
shown much less uneasiness if the province of which he was deprived had been given to any other
than Marius.

LXXXIII. Discouraged, therefore, by such a mortification, and thinking it folly to promote
another man's success at his own hazard, he sent deputies to Bocchus, entreating him "not to
become an enemy to the Romans without cause;" and observing "that he had a fine opportunity
of entering into friendship and alliance with them, which were far preferable to war; that
though he might have confidence in his resources, he ought not to change certainties for uncertainties;
that a war was easily begun, but discontinued with difficulty; that its commencement and conclusion
were not dependent on the same party; that any one, even a coward, might commence hostilities,
but that they could be broken off only when the conqueror thought proper; and that he should
therefore consult for his interest and that of his kingdom, and not connect his own prosperous
circumstances with the ruined fortunes of Jugurtha."

To these representations the king mildly answered, "that he desired peace, but felt compassion
for the condition of Jugurtha, to whom if similar proposals were made, all would easily be
arranged." Metellus, in reply to this request of Bocchus, sent deputies with overtures, of
which the King approved some, and rejected others. Thus, in sending messengers to and fro,
the time passed away, and the war, according to the consul's desire, was protracted without
being advanced.

LXXXIV. Marius, who, as I said before, had been made consul with great eagerness on the part
of the populace, began, though he had always been hostile to the patricians, to inveigh against
them, after the people gave him the province of Numidia, with great frequency and violence;
he attacked them sometimes individually and sometimes in a body; he said that he had snatched
from them the consulship as spoils from vanquished enemies; and uttered other remarks laudatory
to himself and offensive to them. Meanwhile he made the provision for the war his chief object;
he asked for reinforcements for the legions; he sent for auxiliaries from foreign states, kings,
and allies; he also enlisted all the bravest men from Latium, most of whom were known to him
by actual service, some few only by report, and induced, by earnest solicitation, even discharged
veterans[224] to accompany him. Nor did the senate, though adverse to him, dare to refuse him
any thing; the additions to the legions they had voted even with eagerness, because military
service was thought to be unpopular with the multitude, and Marius seemed likely to lose either
the means of warfare[225], or the favor of the people. But such expectations were entertained
in vain, so ardent was the desire of going with Marius that had seized on almost all. Every
one cherished the fancy[226] that he should return home laden with spoil, crowned with victory,
or attended with some similar good fortune. Marius himself, too, had excited them in no small
degree by a speech; for, when all that he required was granted, and he was anxious to commence
a levy, he called an assembly of the people, as well to encourage them to enlist, as to inveigh,
according to his practice, against the nobility. He spoke, on the occasion, as follows:

LXXXV. "I am aware, my fellow-citizens, that most men do not appear as candidates before you
for an office, and conduct themselves in it when they have obtained it, under the same character;
that they are at first industrious, humble, and modest, but afterward lead a life of indolence
and arrogance. But to me it appears that the contrary should be the case; for as the whole
state is of greater consequence than the single office of consulate or praetorship, so its
interests ought to be managed[227] with greater solicitude than these magistracies are sought.
Nor am I insensible how great a weight of business I am, through your kindness, called upon
to sustain. To make preparations for war, and yet to be sparing of the treasury; to press those
into the service whom I am unwilling to offend; to direct every thing at home and abroad; and
to discharge these duties when surrounded by the envious, the hostile,[228] and the factious,
is more difficult, my fellow-citizens, than is generally imagined. In addition to this, if
others fail in their undertakings, their ancient rank, the heroic actions of their ancestors,
the power of their relatives and connections, their numerous dependents, are all at hand to
support them; but as for me, my whole hopes rest upon myself, which I must sustain by good
conduct and integrity; for all other means are unavailing.

I am sensible, too, my fellow-citizens, that the eyes of all men are turned upon me; that the
just and good favor me, as my services are beneficial to the state, but that the nobility seek
occasion to attack me. I must therefore use the greater exertion, that you may not be deceived
in me,[229] and that their views may be rendered abortive. I have led such a life, indeed,
from my boyhood to the present hour, that I am familiar with every kind of toil and danger;
and that exertion, which, before your kindness to me, I practiced gratuitously, it is not my
intention to relax after having received my reward. For those who have pretended to be men
of worth only to secure their election,[230] it may be difficult to conduct themselves properly
in office: but to me, who have passed my whole life in the most honorable occupations, to act
well has from habit become nature.

You have commanded me to carry on the war against Jugurtha; a commission at which the nobility
are highly offended. Consider with yourselves, I pray you, whether it would be a change for
the better, if you were to send to this, or to any other such appointment, one of yonder crowd
of nobles[231], a man of ancient family, of innumerable statues, and of no military experience;
in order, forsooth, that in so important an office, and being ignorant of every thing connected
with it, he may exhibit hurry and trepidation, and select one of the people to instruct him
in his duty. For so it generally happens, that he whom you have chosen to direct, seeks another
to direct him. I know some, my fellow-citizens, who, after they have been elected[232] consuls,
have begun to read the acts of their ancestors, and the military precepts of the Greeks; persons
who invert the order of things;[233] for though to discharge the duties of the office[234]
is posterior, in point of time, to election, it is, in reality and practical importance, prior
to it.

Compare now, my fellow-citizens, me, who am a new man, with those haughty nobles.[235] What
they have but heard or read, I have witnessed or performed. What they have learned from books,
I have acquired in the field; and whether deeds or words are of greater estimation, it is for
you to consider.

They despise my humbleness of birth; I contemn their imbecility. My condition[236] is made
an objection to me; their misconduct is a reproach to them. The circumstance of birth,[237]
indeed, I consider as one and the same to all; but think that he who best exerts himself is
the noblest. And could it be inquired of the fathers,[238] of Albinus and Bestia, whether they
would rather be the parents of them or of me, what do you suppose that they would answer, but
that they would wish the most deserving to be their offspring! If the patricians justly despise
me, let them also despise their own ancestors, whose nobility, like mine, had its origin in
merit. They envy me the honor that I have received; let them also envy me the toils, the abstinence,[239]
and the perils, by which I obtained that honor.

But they, men eaten up with pride, live as if they disdained all the distinctions that you
can bestow, and yet sue for those distinctions as if they had lived so as to merit them. Yet
those are assuredly deceived, who expect to enjoy, at the same time, things so incompatible
as the pleasures of indolence and the rewards of honorable exertion.[240]

When they speak before you, or in the senate, they occupy the greatest part of their orations
in extolling their ancestors;[241] for, they suppose that, by recounting the heroic deeds of
their forefathers, they render themselves more illustrious. But the reverse of this is the
case; for the more glorious were the lives of their ancestors, the more scandalous is their
own inaction. The truth, indeed, is plainly this, that the glory of ancestors sheds a light
on their posterity,[242] which suffers neither their virtues nor their vices to be concealed.
Of this light, my fellow-citizens, I have no share; but I have, what confers much more distinction,
the power of relating my own actions. Consider, then, how unreasonable they are; what they
claim to themselves for the merit of others, they will not grant to me for my own; alleging,
forsooth, that I have no statues, and that my distinction is newly-acquired; but it is surely
better to have acquired such distinction myself than to bring disgrace on that received from
others.

I am not ignorant, that, if they were inclined to reply to me, they would make an abundant
display of eloquent and artful language. Yet, since they attack both you and myself on occasion
of the great favor which you have conferred upon me, I did not think proper to be silent before
them, lest any one should construe my forbearance into a consciousness of demerit. As for myself,
indeed, nothing that is said of me, I feel assured,[243] can do me injury; for what is true,
must of necessity speak in my favor; what is false, my life and character will refute. But
since your judgment, in bestowing on me so distinguished an honor and so important a trust,
is called in question, consider, I beseech you, again and again, whether you are likely to
repent of what you have done. I can not, to raise your confidence in me, boast of the statues,
or triumphs, or consulships of my ancestors; but, if it be thought necessary, I can show you
spears,[244] a banner,[245] caparisons[246] for horses, and other military rewards; besides
the scars of wounds on my breast. These are my statues; this is my nobility; honors, not left,
like theirs, by inheritance, but acquired amid innumerable toils and dangers.

My speech, they say, is inelegant; but that I have ever thought of little importance. Worth
sufficiently displays itself; it is for my detractors to use studied language, that they may
palliate base conduct by plausible words. Nor have I learned Greek; for I had no wish to acquire
a tongue that adds nothing to the valor[247] of those who teach it. But I have gained other
accomplishments, such as are of the utmost benefit to a state; I have learned to strike down
an enemy; to be vigilant at my post;[248] to fear nothing but dishonor; to bear cold and heat
with equal endurance; to sleep on the ground; and to sustain at the same time hunger and fatigue.
And with such rules of conduct I shall stimulate my soldiers, not treating them with rigor
and myself with indulgence, nor making their toils my glory. Such a mode of commanding is at
once useful to the state, and becoming to a citizen. For to coerce your troops with severity,
while you yourself live at ease, is to be a tyrant, not a general.

It was by conduct such as this, my fellow-citizens, that your ancestors made themselves and
the republic renowned. Our nobility, relying on their forefathers' merits, though totally different
from them in conduct, disparage us who emulate their virtues; and demand of you every public
honor, as due, not to their personal merit, but to their high rank. Arrogant pretenders, and
utterly unreasonable! For though their ancestors left them all that was at their disposal,
their riches, their statues, and their glorious names, they left them not, nor could leave
them, their virtue; which alone, of all their possessions, could neither be communicated nor
received.

They reproach me as being mean, and of unpolished manners, because, forsooth, I have but little
skill in arranging an entertainment, and keep no actor,[249] nor give my cook[250] higher wages
than my steward; all which charges I must, indeed, acknowledge to be just; for I learned from
my father, and other venerable characters, that vain indulgences belong to women, and labor
to men; that glory, rather than wealth, should be the object of the virtuous; and that arms
and armor, not household furniture, are marks of honor. But let the nobility, if they please,
pursue what is delightful and dear to them; let them devote themselves to licentiousness and
luxury; let them pass their age as they have passed their youth, in revelry and feasting, the
slaves of gluttony and debauchery; but let them leave the toil and dust of the field, and other
such matters, to us, to whom they are more grateful than banquets. This, however, they will
not do; for when these most infamous of men have disgraced themselves by every species of turpitude,
they proceed to claim the distinctions due to the most honorable. Thus it most unjustly happens
that luxury and indolence, the most disgraceful of vices, are harmless to those who indulge
in them, and fatal only to the innocent commonwealth.

As I have now replied to my calumniators, as far as my own character required, though not so
fully as their flagitiousness deserved, I shall add a few words on the state of public affairs.
In the first place, my fellow-citizens, be of good courage with regard to Numidia; for all
that hitherto protected Jugurtha, avarice, inexperience, and arrogance[251], you have entirely
removed. There is an army in it, too, which is well acquainted with the country, though, assuredly,
more brave than fortunate; for a great part of it has been destroyed by the avarice or rashness
of its commanders. Such of you, then, as are of military age, co-operate with me, and support
the cause of your country; and let no discouragement, from the ill-fortune of others, or the
arrogance of the late commanders, affect any one of you. I myself shall be with you, both on
the march and in the battle, both to direct your movements and to share your dangers. I shall
treat you and myself on every occasion alike; and, doubtless, with the aid of the gods, all
good things, victory, spoil, and glory, are ready to our hands; though, even if they were doubtful
or distant, it would still become every able citizen to act in defense of his country. For
no man, by slothful timidity, has escaped the lot of mortals[252]; nor has any parent wished
for his children[253] that they might live forever, but rather that they might act in life
with virtue and honor. I would add more, my fellow-citizens, if words could give courage to
the faint-hearted; to the brave I think that I have said enough."

LXXXVI. After having spoken to this effect, Marius, when he found that the minds of the populace
were excited, immediately freighted vessels with provisions, pay, arms, and other necessaries,
and ordered Aulus Manlius, his lieutenant-general, to set sail with them. He himself, in the
mean time, proceeded to enlist soldiers, not after the ancient method, or from the classes[254],
but taking all that were willing to join him, and the greater part from the lowest ranks. Some
said that this was done from a scarcity of better men, and others from the consul's desire
to pay court[255] to the poorer class, because it was by that order of men that he had been
honored and promoted; and, indeed, to a man grasping at power, the most needy are the most
serviceable, persons to whom their property (as they have none) is not an object of care, and
to whom every thing lucrative appears honorable. Setting out, accordingly, for Africa, with
a somewhat larger force than had been decreed, he arrived in a few days at Utica. The command
of the army was resigned to him by Publius Rutilius, Metullus's lieutenant-general; for Metullus
himself avoided the sight of Marius, that he might not see what he could not even endure to
hear mentioned.

LXXXVII. Marius, having filled up his legions[256] and auxiliary cohorts, marched into a part
of the country which was fertile and abundant in spoil, where, whatever he captured, he gave
up to his soldiers. He then attacked such fortresses or towns as were ill defended by nature
or with troops, and ventured on several engagements, though only of a light character, in different
places. The new recruits, in process of time, began to join in an encounter without fear; they
saw that such as fled were taken prisoners or slain; that the bravest were the safest; that
liberty, their country, and parents,[257] are defended, and glory and riches acquired, by arms.
Thus the new and old troops soon became as one body, and the courage of all was rendered equal.

The two kings, when they heard of the approach of Marius, retreated, by separate routes, into
parts that were difficult of access; a plan which had been proposed by Jugurtha, who hoped
that, in a short time, the enemy might be attacked when dispersed over the country, supposing
that the Roman soldiers, like the generality of troops, would be less careful and observant
of discipline when the fear of danger was removed.

LXXXVIII. Metellus, meanwhile, having taken his departure for Rome, was received there, contrary
to his expectation, with the greatest feelings of joy, being equally welcomed, since public
prejudice had subsided, by both the people and the patricians.

Marius continued to attend, with equal activity and prudence, to his own affairs and those
of the enemy. He observed what would be advantageous, or the contrary, to either party; he
watched the movements of the kings, counteracted their intentions and stratagems, and allowed
no remissness in his own army, and no security in that of the enemy. He accordingly attacked
and dispersed, on several occasions, the Getulians and Jugurtha on their march, as they were
carrying off spoil from our allies;[258] and he obliged the king himself, near the town of
Cirta, to take flight without his arms[259] But finding that such enterprises merely gained
him honor, without tending to terminate the war, he resolved on investing, one after another,
all the cities, which, by the strength of their garrisons or situation, were best suited either
to support the enemy, or to resist himself; so that Jugurtha would either be deprived of his
fortresses, if he suffered them to be taken, or be forced to come to an engagement in their
defense. As to Bocchus, he had frequently sent messengers to Marius, saying that he desired
the friendship of the Roman people, and that the consul need fear no act of hostility from
him. But whether he merely dissembled, with a view to attack us unexpectedly with greater effect,
or whether, from fickleness of disposition he habitually wavered between war and peace, was
never fairly ascertained.

LXXXIX. Marius, as he had determined, proceeded to attack the fortified towns and places of
strength, and to detach them, partly by force, and partly by threats or offers of reward, from
the enemy. His operations in this way, however, were at first but moderate; for he expected
that Jugurtha, to protect his subjects, would soon come to an engagement. But finding that
he kept at a distance, and was intent on other affairs, he thought it was time to enter upon
something of greater importance and difficulty. Amid the vast deserts there lay a great and
strong city, named Capsa, the founder of which is said to have been the Libyan Hercules.[260]
Its inhabitants were exempted from taxes by Jugurtha, and under mild government, and were consequently
regarded as the most faithful of his subjects. They were defended against enemies, not only
by walls, magazines of arms, and bodies of troops, but still more by the difficulty of approaching
them; for, except the parts adjoining the walls, all the surrounding country is waste and uncultivated,
destitute of water, and infested with serpents, whose fierceness, like that of other wild animals,
is aggravated by want of food; while the venom of such reptiles, deadly in itself, is exacerbated
by nothing so much as by thirst. Of this place Marius conceived a strong desire[261] to make
himself master, not only from its importance for the war, but because its capture seemed an
enterprise of difficulty; for Metellus had gained great glory by taking Thala, a town similarly
situated and fortified; except that at Thala there were several springs near the walls, while
the people of Capsa had only one running stream, and that within the town, all the water which
they used beside being rain-water. But this scarcity, both here and in other parts of Africa,
where the people live rudely and remote from the sea, was endured with the greater ease, as
the inhabitants subsist mostly on milk and wild beasts' flesh,[262] and use no salt, or other
provocatives of appetite, their food being merely to satisfy hunger or thirst, and not to encourage
luxury or excess.

XC. The consul,[263] having made all necessary investigations, and relying, I suppose, on the
gods (for against such difficulties he could not well provide by his own forethought, as he
was also straitened for want of corn, because the Numidians apply more to pasturage than agriculture,
and had conveyed, by the king's order, whatever corn had been raised into fortified places,
while the ground at the time, it being the end of summer, was parched and destitute of vegetation),
yet, under the circumstances, conducted his arrangements with great prudence. All the cattle,
which had been taken for some days previous, he consigned to the care[264] of the auxiliary
cavalry; and directed Aulus Manlius, his lieutenant-general, to proceed with the light-armed
cohorts to the town of Lares,[265] where he had deposited provisions and pay for the army,
telling him that, after plundering the country, he would join him there in a few days. Having
by this means concealed his real design, he proceeded toward the river Tana.

XCI. On his march he distributed daily, to each division of the infantry and cavalry, an equal
portion of the cattle, and gave orders that water-bottles should be made of their hides; thus
compensating, at once, for the scarcity of corn, and providing, while all remained ignorant
of his intention, utensils which would soon be of service. At the end of six days, accordingly,
when he arrived at the river, a large number of bottles had been prepared. Having pitched his
camp, with a slight fortification, he ordered his men to take refreshment, and to be ready
to resume their march at sunset; and, having laid aside all their baggage, to load themselves
and their beasts only with water. As soon as it seemed time, he quitted the camp, and, after
marching the whole night,[266] encamped again.

The same course he pursued on the following night, and on the third, long before dawn, he reached
a hilly spot of ground, not more than two miles distant from Capsa, where he waited, as secretly
as possible, with his whole force. But when daylight appeared, and many of the Numidians, having
no apprehensions of an enemy, went forth out of the town, he suddenly ordered all the cavalry,
and with them the lightest of the infantry, to hasten forward to Capsa, and secure the gates.
He himself immediately followed, with the utmost ardor, restraining his men from plunder.

When the inhabitants perceived that the place was surprised, their state of consternation and
extreme dread, the suddenness of the calamity, and the consideration that many of their fellow-citizens
were without the walls in the power of the enemy, compelled them to surrender. The town, however,
was burned; of the Numidians, such as were of adult age, were put to the sword; the rest were
sold, and the spoil divided among the soldiers. This severity, in violation of the usages of
war, was not adopted from avarice or cruelty in the consul, but was exercised because the place
was of great advantage to Jugurtha, and difficult of access to us, while the inhabitants were
a fickle and faithless race, to be influenced neither by kindness nor by terror.

XCII. When Marius had achieved so important an enterprise, without any loss to his troops,
he who was great and honored before became still greater and still more honored. All his undertakings,[267]
however ill-concerted, were regarded as proofs of superior ability; his soldiers, kept under
mild discipline, and enriched with spoil, extolled him to the skies; the Numidians dreaded
him as some thing more than human; and all, indeed, allies as well as enemies, believed that
he was either possessed of supernatural power, or had all things directed for him by the will
of the gods.

After his success in this attempt, he proceeded against other towns; a few, where they offered
resistance, he took by force; a greater number, deserted in consequence of the wretched fate
of Capsa, he destroyed by fire; and the whole country was filled with mourning and slaughter.

Having at length gained possession of many places, and most of them without loss to his army,
he turned his thoughts to another enterprise, which, though not of the same desperate character
as that at Capsa, was yet not less difficult of execution.[268] Not far from the river Mulucha,
which divided the kingdoms of Jugurtha and Bocchus, there stood, in the midst of a plain,[269]
a rocky hill, sufficiently broad at the top for a small fort; it rose to a vast height, and
had but one narrow ascent left open, the whole of it being as steep by nature as it could have
been rendered by labor and art. This place, as there were treasures of the king in it, Marius
directed his utmost efforts to take.[270] But his views were furthered more by fortune than
by his own contrivance. In the fortress there were plenty of men and arms for its defense,
as well as an abundant store of provisions, and a spring of water; while its situation was
unfavorable for raising mounds, towers, and other works; and the road to it, used by its inhabitants,
was extremely steep, with a precipice on either side. The vineae were brought up with great
danger, and without effect; for, before they were advanced any considerable distance, they
were destroyed with fire or stones. And from the difficulties of the ground, the soldiers could
neither stand in front of the works, nor act among the vineae,[271] without danger; the boldest
of them were killed or wounded, and the fear of the rest increased.

XCIII. Marius having thus wasted much time and labor, began seriously to consider whether he
should abandon the attempt as impracticable, or wait for the aid of Fortune, whom he had so
often found favorable. While he was revolving the matter in his mind, during several days and
nights, in a state of much doubt and perplexity, it happened that a certain Ligurian, a private
soldier in the auxiliary cohorts,[272] having gone out of the camp to fetch water, observed,
near that part of the fort which was furthest from the besiegers, some snails crawling among
the rocks, of which, when he had picked up one or two, and afterward more, he gradually proceeded,
in his eagerness for collecting them, almost to the top of the hill. When he found this part
deserted, a desire, incident to the human mind, of seeing what he had never seen,[273] took
violent possession of him. A large oak chanced to grow out among the rocks, at first, for a
short distance, horizontally,[274] and then, as nature directs all vegetables,[275] turning
and shooting upward. Raising himself sometimes on the boughs of this tree, and sometimes on
the projecting rocks, the Ligurian, as all the Numidians were intently watching the besiegers,
took a full survey of the platform of the fortress. Having observed whatever he thought it
would afterward prove useful to know, he descended the same way, not unobservantly, as he had
gone up, but exploring and noticing all the peculiarities of the path. He then hastened to
Marius, acquainted him with what he had done, and urged him to attack the fort on that side
where he had ascended, offering himself to lead the way and the attempt. Marius sent some of
those about him, along with the Ligurian, to examine the practicability of his proposal, who,
according to their several dispositions, reported the affair as difficult or easy. The consul's
hopes, however, were somewhat encouraged; and he accordingly selected, from his band of trumpeters
and bugle-men, five of the most nimble, and with them four centurions for a guard;[276] all
of whom he directed to obey the Ligurian, appointing the next day for commencing the experiment.

XCIV. When, according to their instructions, it seemed time to set out, the Ligurian, after
preparing and arranging every thing, proceeded to the place of ascent. Those who commanded
the centuries,[277] being previously instructed by the guide, had changed their arms and dress,
having their heads and feet bare, that their view upward, and their progress among the rocks,
might be less impeded;[278] their swords were slung behind them, as well as their shields,
which were Numidian, and made of leather, both for the sake of lightness, and in order that,
if struck against any object, they might make less noise. The Ligurian went first, and tied
to the rocks, and whatever roots of trees projected through age, a number of ropes, by which
the soldiers supporting themselves might climb with the greatest ease. Such as were timorous,
from the extraordinary nature of the path, he sometimes pulled up by the hand; when the ascent
was extremely rugged, he sent them on singly before him without their arms, which he then carried
up after them; whatever parts appeared unsafe,[279] he first tried them himself, and, by going
up and down repeatedly in the same place, and then standing aside, he inspired the rest with
courage to proceed. At length, after uninterrupted and harassing exertion they reached the
fortress, which, on that side, was undefended, for all the occupants, as on other days, were
intent on the enemy in the opposite quarter.

Though Marius had kept the attention of the Numidians, during the whole day, fixed on his attacks,
yet, when he heard from his scouts how the Ligurian had succeeded, he animated his soldiers
to fresh exertions, and he himself, advancing beyond the vineae, and causing a testudo to be
formed,[280] came up close under the walls, annoying the enemy, at the same time, with his
engines, archers, and slingers, from a distance.

But the Numidians, having often before overturned and burned the vineae of the Romans, no longer
confined themselves within the fortress, but spent day and night before the walls, railing
at the Romans, upbraiding Marius with madness, threatening our soldiers with being made slaves
to Jugurtha, and exhibiting the utmost audacity on account of their successful defense. In
the mean time, while both the Romans and Numidians were engaged in the struggle, the one side
contending for glory and dominion, the other for their very existence, the trumpets suddenly
sounded a blast in the rear of the enemy, at which the women and children, who had gone out
to view the contest, were the first to flee; next those who were nearest to the wall, and at
length the whole of the Numidians, armed and unarmed, retreated within the fort. When this
had happened, the Romans pressed upon the enemy with increased boldness, dispersing them, and
at first only wounding the greater part, but afterward making their way over the bodies of
those who fell, thirsting for glory, and striving who should be first to reach the wall; not
a single individual being detained by the plunder. Thus the rashness of Marius, rendered successful
by fortune, procured him renown from his very error.

XCV. During the progress of this affair, Lucius Sylla, Marius's quaestor, arrived in the camp
with a numerous body of cavalry, which he had been left at Rome to raise among the Latins and
allies.

Of so eminent a man, since my subject brings him to my notice, I think it proper to give a
brief account of the character and manners; for I shall in no other place allude to his affairs;[281]
and Lucius Sisenna,[282] who has treated that subject the most ably and accurately of all writers,
seems to me to have spoken with too little freedom. Sylla, then, was of patrician descent,
but of a family almost sunk in obscurity by the degeneracy of his forefathers. He was skilled,
equally and profoundly, in Greek and Roman literature. He was a man of large mind, fond of
pleasure, but fonder of glory. His leisure was spent in luxurious gratifications, but pleasure
never kept him from his duties, except that he might have acted more for his honor with regard
to his wife[283]. He was eloquent and subtle, and lived on the easiest terms with his friends.[284]
His depth of thought in disguising his intentions, was incredible; he was liberal of most things,
but especially of money. And though he was the most fortunate [285] of all men before his victory
in the civil war, yet his fortune was never beyond his desert;[286] and many have expressed
a doubt whether his success or his merit were the greater. As to his subsequent acts, I know
not whether more of shame, or of regret must be felt at the recital of them.

XCVI. When Sylla came with his cavalry into Africa, as has just been stated, and arrived at
the camp of Marius, though he had hitherto been unskilled and undisciplined in the art of war,
he became, in a short time, the most expert of the whole army. He was besides affable to the
soldiers; he conferred favors on many at their request, and on others of his own accord, and
was reluctant to receive any in return. But he repaid other obligations more readily than those
of a pecuniary nature; he himself demanded repayment from no one; but rather made it his object
that as many as possible should be indebted to him. He conversed, jocosely as well as seriously,
with the humblest of the soldiers; he was their frequent companion at their works, on the march,
and on guard. Nor did he ever, as is usual with depraved ambition, attempt to injure the character
of the consul, or of any deserving person.

His sole aim, whether in the council or the field, was to suffer none to excel him; to most
he was superior. By such conduct he soon became a favorite both with Marius and with the army.

XCVII. Jugurtha, after he had lost the city of Capsa, and other strong and important places,
as well as a vast sum of money, dispatched messengers to Bocchus, requesting him to bring his
forces into Numidia as soon as possible, and stating that the time for giving battle was at
hand. But finding that he hesitated, and was balancing the inducements to peace and war, he
again corrupted his confidants, as on a previous occasion, with presents, and promised the
Moor himself a third part of Numidia, should either the Romans be driven from Africa, or the
war brought to an end without any diminution of his own territories. Being allured by this
offer, Bocchus joined Jugurtha with a large force.

The armies of the kings being thus united, they attacked Marius, on his march to his winter
quarters, when scarcely a tenth part of the day remained[287], expecting that the night, which
was now coming on, would be a shelter to them if they were beaten, and no impediment if they
should conquer, as they were well acquainted with the country, while either result would be
worse for the Romans in the dark. At the very moment, accordingly, that Marius heard from various
quarters[288] of the enemy's approach, the enemy themselves were upon him, and before the troops
could either form themselves or collect the baggage, before they could receive even a signal
or an order, the Moorish and Getulian horse, not in line, or any regular array of battle, but
in separate bodies, as chance had united them, rushed furiously on our men; who, though all
struck with a panic, yet, calling to mind what they had done on former occasions, either seized
their arms, or protected those who were looking for theirs, while some, springing on their
horses, advanced against the enemy. But the whole conflict was more like a rencounter with
robbers than a battle; the horse and foot of the enemy, mingled together without standards
or order, wounded some of our men, and cut down others, and surprised many in the rear while
fighting stoutly with those in front; neither valor nor arms were a sufficient defense, the
enemy being superior in numbers, and covering the field on all sides. At last the Roman veterans,
who were necessarily well experienced in war,[289] formed themselves, wherever the nature of
the ground or chance allowed them to unite, in circular bodies, and thus secured on every side,
and regularly drawn up, withstood the attacks of the enemy.

XCVIII. Marius, in this desperate emergency, was not more alarmed or disheartened than on any
previous occasion, but rode about with his troop of cavalry, which he had formed of his bravest
soldiers rather than his nearest friends, in every quarter of the field, sometimes supporting
his own men when giving way, sometimes charging the enemy where they were thickest, and doing
service to his troops with his sword, since, in the general confusion, he was unable to command
with his voice.

The day had now closed, yet the barbarians abated nothing of their impetuosity, but, expecting
that the night would be in their favor, pressed forward, as their kings had directed them,
with increased violence. Marius, in consequence, resolved upon a measure suited to his circumstances,
and, that his men might have a place of retreat, took possession of two hills contiguous to
each other, on one of which, too small for a camp, there was an abundant spring of water, while
the other, being mostly elevated and steep, and requiring little fortification, was suited
for his purpose as a place of encampment. He then ordered Sylla, with a body of cavalry, to
take his station for the night on the eminence containing the spring, while he himself collected
his scattered troops by degrees, the enemy being not less disordered[290], and led them all
at a quick march[291] up the other hill. Thus the kings, obliged by the strength of the Roman
position, were deterred from continuing the combat; yet they did not allow their men to withdraw
to a distance, but, surrounding both hills with a large force, encamped without any regular
order. Having then lighted numerous fires, the barbarians, after their custom, spent most of
the night in merriment, exultation, and tumultuous clamor, the kings, elated at having kept
their ground, conducting themselves as conquerors. This scene, plainly visible to the Romans,
under cover of the night and on the higher ground, afforded great encouragement to them.

XCIX. Marius, accordingly, deriving much confidence from the imprudence of the enemy, ordered
the strictest possible silence to be kept, not allowing even the trumpets, as was usual, to
be sounded when the watches were changed;[292] cavalry, and legions, to sound all and then,
when day approached, and the enemy were fatigued and just sinking to sleep, he ordered the
sentinels, with the trumpeters of the auxiliary cohorts,[293] their instruments at once, and
the soldiers, at the same time, to raise a shout, and sally forth from the camp[294] upon the
enemy. The Moors and Getulians, suddenly roused by the strange and terrible noise, could neither
flee, nor take up arms, could neither act, nor provide for their security, so completely had
fear, like a stupor,[295] from the uproar and shouting, the absence of support, the charge
of our troops, and the tumult and alarm, seized upon them all. The whole of them were consequently
routed and put to flight; most of their arms, and military standards, were taken; and more
were killed in this than in all former battles, their escape being impeded by sleep and the
sudden alarm.

C. Marius now continued the route, which he had commenced, toward his winter quarters, which,
for the convenience of getting provisions, he had determined to fix in the towns on the coast.
He was not, however, rendered careless or presumptuous by his victory, but marched with his
army in form of a square[296] just as if he were in sight of the enemy. Sylla, with his cavalry,
was on the right; Aulus Manlius, with the slingers and archers, and Ligurian cohorts, had the
command on the left; the tribunes, with the light-armed infantry, the consul had placed in
the front and rear. The deserters, whose lives were of little value, and who were well acquainted
with the country, observed the route of the enemy. Marius himself, too, as if no other were
placed in charge, attended to every thing, went through the whole of the troops, and praised
or blamed them according to their desert. He was always armed and on the alert, and obliged
his men to imitate his example. He fortified his camp with the same caution with which he marched;
stationing cohorts of the legions to watch the gates, and the auxiliary cavalry in front, and
others upon the rampart and lines. He went round the posts in person, not from suspicion that
his orders would not be observed, but that the labor of the soldiers, shared equally by their
general, might be endured by them with cheerfulness. [297] Indeed, Marius, as well at this
as at other periods of the war, kept his men to their duty rather by the dread of shame[298]
than of severity; a course which many said was adopted from desire of popularity, but some
thought it was because he took pleasure in toils to which he had been accustomed from his youth,
and in exertions which other men call perfect miseries. The public interest, however, was served
with as much efficiency and honor as it could have been under the most rigorous command.

CI. At length, on the fourth day of his march, when he was not far from the town of Cirta,
his scouts suddenly made their appearance from all quarters at once; a circumstance by which
the enemy was known to be at hand. But as they came in from different points, and all gave
the same account, the consul, doubting in what form to draw up his army, made no alteration
in it, but halted where he was, being already prepared for every contingency. Jugurtha's expectations,
in consequence, disappointed him; for he had divided his force into four bodies, trusting that
one of them, assuredly,[299] would surprise the Romans in the rear. Sylla, meanwhile, with
whom they first came in contact, having cheered on his men, charged the Moors, in person and
with his officers,[300] with troop after troop of cavalry, in the closest order possible; while
the rest of his force, retaining their position, protected themselves against the darts thrown
from a distance, and killed such of the enemy as fell into their hands.

While the cavalry was thus engaged, Bocchus, with his infantry, which his son Volux had brought
up, and which, from delay on their march, had not been present in the former battle, assailed
the Romans in the rear. Marius was at that moment occupied in front, as Jugurtha was there
with his largest force. The Numidian king, hearing of the arrival of Bocchus, wheeled secretly
about, with a few of his followers, to the infantry,[301] and exclaimed in Latin, which he
had learned to speak at Numantia, "that our men wore struggling in vain; for that he had just
slain Marius with his own hand;" showing, at the same time, his sword besmeared with blood,
which he had, indeed, sufficiently stained by vigorously cutting down our infantry[302].

When the soldiers heard this, they felt a shock, though rather at the horror of such an event,
than from belief in him who asserted it; the barbarians, on the other hand, assumed fresh courage,
and advanced with greater fury on the disheartened Romans, who were just on the point of taking
to flight, when Sylla, having routed those to whom he had been opposed, fell upon the Moors
in the flank. Bocchus instantly fled. Jugurtha, anxious to support his men, and to secure a
victory so nearly won, was surrounded by our cavalry, and all his attendants, right and left,
being slain, had to force a way alone, with great difficulty, through the weapons of the enemy.
Marius, at the same time, having put to flight the cavalry, came up to support such of his
men as he had understood to be giving ground. At last the enemy were defeated in every quarter.
The spectacle on the open plains was then frightful;[303] some were pursuing, others fleeing;
some were being slain, others captured; men and horses were dashed to the earth; many, who
were wounded, could neither flee nor remain at rest, attempting to rise, and instantly falling
back; and the whole field, as far as the eye could reach, was strewed with arms and dead bodies,
and the intermediate spaces saturated with blood.

CII. At length the consul, now indisputably victor, arrived at the town of Cirta, whither he
had at first intended to go. To this place, on the fifth day after the second defeat of the
barbarians, came messengers from Bocchus, who, in the king's name, requested of Marius to send
him two persons in whom he had full confidence, as he wished to confer with them on matters
concerning both the interest of the Roman people and his own. Marius immediately dispatched
Sylla and Aulus Manlius; who, though they went at the king's invitation, thought proper, notwithstanding,
to address him first, in the hope of altering his sentiments, if he were unfavorable to peace,
or of strengthening his inclination, if he were disposed to it. Sylla, therefore, to whose
superiority, not in years but in eloquence, Manlius yielded precedence, spoke to Bocchus briefly
as follows:

"It gives us great pleasure, King Bocchus, that the gods have at length induced a man, so eminent
as yourself, to prefer peace to war, and no longer to stain your own excellent character by
an alliance with Jugurtha, the most infamous of mankind; and to relieve us, at the same time,
from the disagreeable necessity of visiting with the same punishment your errors and his crimes.
Besides, the Roman people, even from the very infancy[304] of their state, have thought it
better to seek friends than slaves, thinking it safer to rule over willing than forced subjects.
But to you no friendship can be more suitable than ours; for, in the first place, we are at
a distance from you, on which account there will be the less chance of misunderstanding between
us, while our good feeling for you will be as strong as if we were near; and, secondly, because,
though we have subjects in abundance, yet neither we, nor any other nation, can ever have a
sufficiency of friends. Would that such had been your inclination from the first; for then
you would assuredly, before this time, have received from the Roman people more benefits than
you have now suffered evils. But since Fortune has the chief control in human affairs, and
it has pleased her that you should experience our force as well as our favor, now, when, she
gives you this fair opportunity, embrace it without delay, and complete the course which you
have begun. You have many and excellent means of atoning, with great ease, for past errors
by future services. Impress this, however, deeply on your mind, that the Roman people are never
outdone in acts of kindness; of their power in war you have already sufficient knowledge."

To this address Bocchus made a temperate and courteous reply, offering a few observations,
at the same time, in extenuation of his error; and saying "that he had taken arms, not with
any hostile feeling, but to defend his own dominions, as part of Numidia, out of which he had
forcibly driven Jugurtha,[305] was his by right of conquest, and he could not allow it to be
laid waste by Marius; that when he formerly sent embassadors to the Romans, he was refused
their friendship; but that he would say nothing more of the past, and would, if Marius gave
him permission, send another embassy to the senate." But no sooner was this permission granted,
than the purpose of the barbarian was altered by some of his friends, whom Jugurtha, hearing
of the mission of Sylla and Manlius, and fearful of what was intended by it, had corrupted
with bribes.

CIII. Marius, in the mean time, having settled his army in winter quarters, set out, with the
light-armed cohorts and part of the cavalry, into a desert part of the country, to besiege
a fortress of Jugurtha's, in which he had placed a garrison consisting wholly of Roman deserters.
And now again Bocchus, either from reflecting on what he had suffered in the two engagements,
or from being admonished by such of his friends as Jugurtha had not corrupted, selected, out
of the whole number of his adherents, five persons of approved integrity and eminent abilities,
whom he directed to go, in the first place, to Marius, and afterward to proceed, if Marius
gave his consent, as embassadors to Rome, granting them full powers to treat concerning his
affairs, and to conclude the war upon any terms whatsoever. These five immediately set out
for the Roman winter-quarters, but being beset and spoiled by Getulian robbers on the way,
fled, in alarm and ill plight,[306] to Sylla, whom the consul, when he went on his expedition,
had left as pro-praetor with the army. Sylla received them, not, as they had deserved, like
faithless enemies, but with the greatest ceremony and munificence; from which the barbarians
concluded that what was said of Roman avarice was false, and that Sylla, from his generosity,
must be their friend. For interested bounty,[307] in those days, was still unknown to many;
by whom every man who was liberal was also thought benevolent, and all presents were considered
to proceed from kindness. They therefore disclosed to the quaestor their commission from Bocchus,
and asked him to be their patron and adviser; extolling, at the same time, the power, integrity,
and grandeur of their monarch, and adding whatever they thought likely to promote their objects,
or to procure the favor of Sylla. Sylla promised them all that they requested; and, being instructed
how to address Marius and the senate, they tarried in the camp about forty days.[308]

CIV. When Marius, having failed in the object[309] of his expedition, returned to Cirta, and
was informed of the arrival of the embassadors, he desired both them and Sylla to come to him,
together with Lucius Bellienus, the praetor from Utica, and all that were of senatorial rank
in any part of the country, with whom he discussed the instructions of Bocchus to his embassadors;
to whom permission to proceed to Rome was granted by the consul. In the mean time a truce was
asked, a request to which assent was readily expressed by Sylla and the majority; the few,
who advocated harsher measures, were men inexperienced in human affairs, which, unstable and
fluctuating, are always verging to opposite extremes.[310]

The Moors having obtained all that they desired, three of them started for Rome with Oneius
Octavius Rufus, who, as quaestor, had brought pay for the army to Africa; the other two returned
to Bocchus, who heard from them, with great pleasure, their account both of other particulars,
and especially of the courtesy and attention of Sylla.

To his three embassadors that went to Rome, when, after a deprecatory acknowledgment that their
king had been in error, and had been led astray by the treachery of Jugurtha, they solicited
for him friendship and alliance, the following answer was given: "The senate and people of
Rome are wont to be mindful of both services and injuries; they pardon Bocchus, since he repents
of his fault, and will grant him their alliance and friendship when he shall have deserved them."

CV. When this reply was communicated to Bocchus, he requested Marius, by letter, to send Sylla
to him, that, at his discretion,[311] measures might be adopted for their common interest.
Sylla was accordingly dispatched, attended with a guard of cavalry, infantry, and Balearic
slingers, besides some archers and a Pelignian cohort, who, for the sake of expedition, were
furnished with light arms, which, however, protected them, as efficiently as any others, against
the light darts of the enemy. As he was on his march, on the fifth day after he set out, Volux,
the son of Bocchus, suddenly appeared on the open plain with a body of cavalry, which amounted
in reality to not more than a thousand, but which, as they approached in confusion and disorder,
presented to Sylla and the rest the appearance of a greater number, and excited apprehensions
of hostility. Every one, therefore, prepared himself for action, trying and presenting[312]
his arms and weapons; some fear was felt among them, but greater hope, as they were now conquerors,
and were only meeting those whom they had often overcome. After a while, however, a party of
horse sent forward to reconnoiter, reported, as was the case, that nothing but peace was intended.

CVI. Volux, coming forward, addressed himself to Sylla, saying that he was sent by Bocchus
his father to meet and escort him. The two parties accordingly formed a junction, and prosecuted
their journey, on that day and the following, without any alarm. But when they had pitched
their camp, and evening had set in, Volux came running, with looks of perplexity, to Sylla,
and said that he had learned from his scouts that Jugurtha was at hand, entreating and urging
him, at the same time, to escape with him privately in the night. Sylla boldly replied, "that
he had no fear of Jugurtha, an enemy so often defeated; that he had the utmost confidence in
the valor of his troops; and that, even if certain destruction were at hand, he would rather
keep his ground, than save, by deserting his followers, a life at best uncertain, and perhaps
soon to be lost by disease." Being pressed, however, by Volux, to set forward in the night,
he approved of the suggestion, and immediately ordered his men to dispatch their supper,[313]
to light as many fires as possible in the camp, and to set out in silence at the first watch.

When they were all fatigued with their march during the night, and Sylla was preparing, at
sunrise, to pitch his camp, the Moorish cavalry announced that Jugurtha was encamped about
two miles in advance. At this report, great dismay fell upon our men; for they believed themselves
betrayed by Volux, and led into an ambuscade. Some exclaimed that they ought to take vengeance
on him at once, and not suffer such perfidy to remain unpunished.

CVII. But Sylla, though he had similar thoughts, protected the Moor from violence; exhorting
his soldiers to keep up their spirits; and saying, "that a handful of brave men had often fought
successfully against a multitude; that the less anxious they were to save their lives in battle,
the greater would be their security; and that no man, who had arms in his hands, ought to trust
for safety to his unarmed heels, or to turn to the enemy, in however great danger, the defenseless
and blind parts of his body".[314] Having then called almighty Jupiter to witness the guilt
and perfidy of Bocchus, he ordered Volux, as being an instrument of his father's hostility,[315]
to quit the camp.

Volux, with tears in his eyes, entreated him to entertain no such suspicions; declaring "that
nothing in the affair had been caused by treachery on his part, but all by the subtlety of
Jugurtha, to whom his line of march had become known through his scouts. But as Jugurtha had
no great force with him, and as his hopes and resource were dependent on his father Bocchus,
he assuredly would not attempt any open violence, when the son of Bocchus would himself be
a witness of it. He thought it best for Sylla, therefore, to march boldly through the middle
of his camp, and that as for himself, he would either send forward his Moors, or leave them
where they were, and accompany Sylla alone." This course, under such circumstances, was adopted;
they set forward without delay, and, as they came upon Jugurtha unexpectedly, while he was
in doubt and hesitation how to act, they passed without molestation. In a few days afterward,
they arrived at the place to which their march was directed.

CVIII. There was, at this time, in constant and familiar intercourse with Bocchus, a Numidian
named Aspar, who had been sent to him by Jugurtha, when he heard of Sylla's intended interview,
in the character of embassador, but secretly to be a spy on the Mauretanian king's proceedings.
There was also with him a certain Dabar, son of Massugrada, one of the family of Masinissa,[316]
but of inferior birth on the maternal side, as his father was the son of a concubine. Dabar,
for his many intellectual endowments, was liked and esteemed by Bocchus, who, having found
him faithful[317] on many former occasions, sent him forthwith to Sylla, to say that "he was
ready to do whatever the Romans desired; that Sylla himself should appoint the place, day,
and hour,[318] for a conference; that he kept all points, which he had settled with him before,
inviolate;[319] and that he was not to fear the presence of Jugurtha's embassador as any restraint[320]
on the discussion of their common interests, since, without admitting him, he could have no
security against Jugurtha's treachery". I find, however, that it was rather from African duplicity[321]
than from the motives which he professed, that Bocchus thus allured both the Romans and Jugurtha
with the hopes of peace; that he frequently debated with himself whether he should deliver
Jugurtha to the Romans, or Sylla to Jugurtha; and that his inclination swayed him against us,
but his fears in our favor.

CIX. Sylla replied, "that he should speak on but few particulars before Aspar, and discuss
others at a private meeting, or in the presence of only a few;" dictating, at the same time,
what answer should be returned by Bocchus.[322] Afterward, when they met, as Bocchus had desired,
Sylla stated, "that he had come, by order of the consul, to inquire whether he would resolve
on peace or on war." Bocchus, as he had been previously instructed by Sylla, requested him
to come again at the end of ten days, since he had as yet formed no determination, but would
at that time give a decisive answer. Both then retired to their respective camps.[323] But
when the night was far advanced, Sylla was secretly sent for by Bocchus. At their interview,
none but confidential interpreters were admitted on either side, together with Dabar, the messenger
between them, a man of honor, and held in esteem by both parties. The king at once commenced thus:

CX. "I never expected that I, the greatest monarch in this part of the world, and the richest
of all whom I know, should ever owe a favor to a private man. Indeed, Sylla, before I knew
you, I gave assistance to many who solicited me, and to others without solicitation, and stood
in need of no man's assistance.

But at this loss of independence, at which others are wont to repine, I am rather inclined
to rejoice. It will be a pleasure to me[324] to have once needed your friendship, than which
I hold nothing dearer to my heart. Of the sincerity of this assertion you may at once make
trial, take my arms, my soldiers, my money, or whatever you please, and use it as your own.
But do not suppose, as long as you live, that your kindness to me has been fully requited;
my sense of it will always remain undiminished, and you shall, with my knowledge, wish for
nothing in vain. For, as I am of opinion, it is less dishonorable to a prince to be conquered
in battle than to be surpassed in generosity.

With respect to your republic, whose interests you are sent to guard, hear briefly what I have
to say. I have neither made war upon the Roman people, nor desired that it should be made;
I have merely defended my territories with arms against an armed force. But from hostilities,
since such is your pleasure, I now desist. Prosecute the war with Jugurtha as you think proper.
The river Malucha, which was the boundary between Miscipsa and me, I shall neither pass myself,
nor suffer Jugurtha to come within it. And if you shall ask any thing besides, worthy of me
and of yourself, you shall not depart with a refusal."

CXI. To this speech Sylla replied, as far as concerned himself, briefly and modestly; but spoke,
with regard to the peace and their common concerns, much more at length. He signified to the
king "that the senate and people of Rome, as they had the superiority in the field, would think
themselves little obliged by what he promised; that he must do something which would seem more
for their interest than his own; and that for this there was now a fair opportunity, since
he had Jugurtha in his power, for, if he delivered him to the Romans, they would feel greatly
indebted to him, and their friendship and alliance, as well as that part of Numidia which he
claimed,[325] would readily be granted him." Bocchus at first refused to listen to the proposal,
saying that affinity, the ties of blood,[326] and a solemn league, connected him with Jugurtha;
and that he feared, if he acted insincerely, he might alienate the affections of his subjects,
by whom Jugurtha was beloved, and the Romans disliked. But at last, after being frequently
importuned, his resolution gave way,[327] and he engaged to do every thing in accordance with
Sylla's wishes. They then concerted measures for conducting a pretended treaty of peace, of
which Jugurtha, weary of war, was extremely desirous. Having settled their plans, they separated.

CXII. On the next day Bocchus sent for Aspar, Jugurtha's envoy, and acquainted him that he
had ascertained from Sylla, through Dabar, that the war might be concluded on certain conditions;
and that he should therefore make inquiry as to the sentiments of his king. Aspar proceeded
with joy to Jugurtha's camp, and having received full instructions from him, returned in haste
to Bocchus at the end of eight days, with intelligence "that Jugurtha was eager to do whatever
might be required, but that he put little confidence in Marius, as treaties of peace, concluded
with Roman generals, had often before proved of no effect; that if Bocchus, however, wished
to consult the interests of both,[328] and to have an established peace, he should endeavor
to bring all parties together to a conference, as if to settle the conditions, and then deliver
Sylla into his hands, for when he had such a man in his power, a treaty would at once be concluded
by order of the senate and people of Rome; as a man of high rank, who had fallen into the hands
of the enemy, not from want of spirit, but from zeal for the public interest, would not be
left in captivity".

CXIII. The Moor, after long meditation on these suggestions, at length expressed his assent
to them, but whether in pretense or sincerity I have not been able to discover. But the inclinations
of kings, as they are violent, are often fickle, and at variance with themselves. At last,
after a time and place were fixed for coming to a conference about the treaty, Bocchus addressed
himself at one time to Sylla and at another to the envoy of Jugurtha, treating them with equal
affability, and making the same professions to both. Both were in consequence equally delighted,
and animated with the fairest expectations. But on the night preceding the day appointed for
the conference, the Moor, after first assembling his friends, and then, on a change of mind,
dismissing them, is reported to have had many anxious struggles with himself, disturbed alike
in his thoughts and his gestures, which, even when he was silent, betrayed the secret agitation
of his mind. At last, however, he ordered that Sylla should be sent for, and, according to
his desire, laid an ambush for Jugurtha.

As soon as it was day, and intelligence was brought that Jugurtha was at hand, Bocchus, as
if to meet him and do him honor, went forth, attended by a few friends, and our quaestor, as
far as a little hill, which was full in the view of the men who were placed in ambush. To the
same spot came Jugurtha with most of his adherents, unarmed, according to agreement; when immediately,
on a signal being given, he was assailed on all sides by those who were lying in wait. The
others were cut to pieces, and Jugurtha himself was delivered bound to Sylla, and by him conducted
to Marius.

CXIV. At this period war was carried on unsuccessfully by our generals Quintus Caepio and Marcus
Manlius, against the Gauls; with the terror of which all Italy was thrown into consternation.
Both the Romans of that day, indeed, and their descendants, down to our own times, maintained
the opinion that all other nations must yield to their valor, but that they contended with
the Gauls, not for glory, but merely in self-defense. But after the war in Numidia was ended,
and it was announced that Jugurtha was coming in chains to Rome, Marius, though absent from
the city, was created consul, and Gaul decreed to him as his province. On the first of January
he triumphed as consul, with great glory. At that time[329] the hopes and dependence of the
state were placed on him.

NOTES FOR THE JUGURTHINE WAR

[1] I. Intellectual power--Virtute. See the remarks on virtus, at the commencement of the Conspiracy
of Catiline. A little below, I have rendered via virtutis, "the path of true merit."

[2] Worthy of honor--Clarus. "A person may be called clarus either on account of his great
actions and merits; or on account of some honor which he has obtained, as the consuls were
called clarissimi viri; or on account of great expectations which are formed from him. But
since the worth of him who is clarus is known by all, it appears that the mind is here called
clarus because its nature is such that pre-eminence is generally attributed to it, and the
attention of all directed toward it." Dietsch.

[3] Abandons itself--Pessum datus est. Is altogether sunk and overwhelmed.

[4] Impute their delinquency to circumstances, etc.--Suam quisque culpam ad negotia transferunt.
Men excuse their indolence and inactivity, by saying that the weakness of their faculties,
or the circumstances in which they are placed, render them unable to accomplish any thing of
importance. But, says Seneca, Satis natura, homini dedit roboris, si illo utamur;--nolle in
causa, non posse praetenditur. "Nature has given men sufficient powers, if they will but use
them; but they pretend that they can not when the truth is that they will not." "Negotia is
a common word with Sallust, for which other writers would use res, facta." Gerlach. "Cajus
rei nos ipsi sumus auctores, ejus culpam rebus externis attribuimus." Muller. "Auctores" is
the same as the [Greek: aitioi].

[5] Useless--Aliena. Unsuitable, not to the purpose, not contributing to the improvement of life.

[6] Instead of being mortal--Pro mortalibus. There are two senses in which these words may
be taken: as far as mortals can, and instead of being mortals. Kritz and Dietsch say that the
latter is undoubtedly the true sense. Other commentators are either silent or say little to
the purpose. As for the translators, they have studied only how to get over the passage delicately.
The latter sense is perhaps favored by what is said in c. 2, that "the illustrious achievements
of the mind are, like the mind itself, immortal."

[7] II. They all rise and fall, etc.--Omnia orta occidunt, et aucta senescunt. This is true
of things in general, but is here spoken only of the qualities of the body, as De Brosses clearly
perceived.

[8] Has power over all things--Habet cuncta. "All things are in
its power." Dietsch. "Sub ditione tenet. So Jupiter, Ov. Met.
i. 197:
  Quum mihi qui fulmen, qui vos habeoque regoque."
Burnouf. So Aristippus said, Habeo Laidem, non habeor a Laide,
[Greek: echo ouk echomai]. Cic. Epist. ad Fam. ix. 26.

[9] III. Civil and military offices--Magistratus et imperia. "Illo vocabule civilia, hoc militaria
munera, significantur." Dietsch.

[10] To rule our country or subjects, etc.--Nam vi quidem regere patriam aut parentes, etc.
Cortius, Gerlach, Kritz, Dietsch, and Muller are unanimous in understanding parentes as the
participle of the verb pareo. That this is the sense, says Gerlach, is sufficiently proved
by the conjunction aut; for if Sallust had meant parents, he would have used ut; and in this
opinion Allen coincides. Doubtless, also, this sense of the word suits extremely well with
the rest of the sentence, in which changes in government are mentioned. But Burnouf, with Crispinus,
prefers to follow Aldus Manutius, who took the word in the other signification, supposing that
Sallust borrowed the sentiment from Plato, who says in his Epistle ad Dionis Propinquos: [Greek:
Patera de hae maetera ouch osion haegoumai prosbiazesthai, mae noso paraphrosunaes hechomenous.
Bian de patridi politeias metabolaes aeae prospherein, otan aneu phugon, kai sphagaes andron,
mae dunaton hae ginesthae taen ariostaen.] And he makes a similar observation in his Crito:
[Greek: Pantachou poiaetaen, o an keleuoi hae polis te, kai hae patris.--Biazesthai de ouch
osion oute maetera, oute patera poly de touton eti aetton taen patrida.] On which sentiments
Cicero, ad Fam. i. 9, thus comments: Id enim jubet idem ille Plato, quem ego auctorem vehementer
sequor; tantum contendere in republica quantum probare tuis civibus possis: vim neque parenti,
neque patriae afferre oportere. There is also another passage in Cicero, Cat. i. 3, which seems
to favor this sense of the word: Si te parentes timerent atque odissent tui, neque eos ulla
ratione placare posses, ut opinor, ab eorum oculis aliquo concederes; nunc te patria, quae
communis est omnium nostrum parens odit ac metuit, etc. Of the first passage cited from Plato,
indeed, Sallust's words may seem to be almost a translation. Yet, as the majority of commentators
have followed Cortius, I have also followed him. Sallust has the word in this sense in Jug.,
c. 102; Parentes abunde habemus. So Vell. Pat. ii. 108: Principatis constans ex voluntate parentium.

[11] Lead to--Portendant. "Portendere in a pregnant sense, meaning not merely to indicate,
but quasi secum ferre, to carry along with them." Kritzius.

[12] IV, Presumptuously--Per insolentiam. The same as insolenter, though some refer it, not
to Sallust, but to quis existumet, in the sense of strangely, i. e. foolishly or ignorantly.
I follow Cortius's interpretation.

[13] At what periods I obtained office, what sort of men, etc. --Quibus ego temporibus maqistratus
adeptus sum, et quales viri, etc. --"Sallust obtained the quaestorship a few years after the
conspiracy of Catiline, about the time when the state was agitated by the disorders of Clodius
and his party. He was tribune of the people, A.U.C. 701, the year in which Clodius was killed
by Milo. He was praetor in 708, when Caesar had made himself ruler. In the expression quales
viri, etc., he alludes chiefly to Cato, who, when he stood for the praetorship, was unsuccessful."
Burnouf. Kritzius defends adeptus sum.

[14] What description of persons have subsequently entered the senate--"Caesar chose the worthy
and unworthy, as suited his own purposes, to be members of the senate." Burnouf.

[15] Quintus Maximus--Quintus Fabius Maximus, of whom Ennius says,
  Unus qui nobis cunctando restituit rem;
  Non ponebat enim rumores ante salutem.

[16] Publius Scipio--Scipio Africanus the Elder, the conqueror of Hannibal. See c. 5.

[17] To the pursuit of honor--Ad vertutem. Virtus in the same sense as in virtutis via, c. 1.

[18] The wax--Ceram illam. The images or busts of their ancestors, which the nobility kept
in the halls of their houses, were made of wax. See Plin. H. N. xxxv., 2.

[19] Men of humble birth--Homines novi. See Cat., c. 23.

[20] V. Threw every thing, religious and civil, into confusion--Divina et humana cuncta permiscuit.
"All things, both divine and human, were so changed, that their previous condition was entirely
subverted." Dietsch.

[21] Civil dissensions--Studiis civilibus. This is the sense in which most commentators take
studia; and if this be right, the whole phrase must be understood as I have rendered it. So
Cortius; "Ut non prius finirentur [studia civilia] nisi bello et vastitate Italiae." Sallust
has studia partium Jug. c. 42; and Gerlach quotes from Cic. pro Marcell. c. 10: "Non enim consiliis
solis et studiis, sed armis etiam et castris dissidebamus".

[22] More than any other enemy--Maxime.

[23] Since the Roman name became great--Post magnitudinem nominis Romani. "I know not why interpreters
should find any difficulty in this passage. I understand it to signify simply since the Romans
became so great as they were in the time of Hannibal; for, before that period they had suffered
even heavier calamities, especially from the Gauls." Cortius.

[24] Syphax--"He was King of the Masaesyli in Numidia; was at first an enemy to the Carthaginians
(Liv. xxiv. 48), and afterward their friend (Liv. xxviii. 17). He then changed sides again,
and made a treaty with Scipio; but having at length been offered the hand of Sophonisba, the
daughter of Asdrubal, in marriage, he accepted it, and returned into alliance with the Carthaginians.
Being subsequently taken prisoner by Masinissa and Laelius, the lieutenant of Scipio, (Liv.
xxx. 2) he was carried into Italy, and died at Tibur (Liv. xxx. 45)." Burnouf.

[25] His reign--Imperii. Cortius thinks that the grant of the Romans ceased with the life of
Masinissa, and that his son, Micipsa, reigned only over that part of Numidia which originally
belonged to his father. But in this opinion succeeding commentators have generally supposed
him to be mistaken.

[26] VII. During the Numantine war--Bella Numantino. Numantia, which stood near the source
of the Durius or Douro in Spain, was so strong in its situation and fortifications, that it
with stood the Romans for fourteen years. See Florus, ii. 17,18; Vell. Pat. ii. 4.

[27] VIII. Rather by attention to them as a body, than by practicing on individuals--Publice
quam privatim. "Universae potius civitatis, quam privatorum gratiam quaerendo." Burnouf. The
words can only be rendered periphrastically.

[28] IX. In a short time--Statim. If what is said in c. 11 be correct, that Jugurtha was adopted
within three years of Micipsa's death, his adoption did not take place till twelve years after
the taking of Numantia, which surrendered in 619, and Micipsa died in 634. Statim is therefore
used with great latitude, unless we suppose Sallust to mean that Micipsa signified to Jugurtha
his intention to adopt him immediately on his return from Numantia, and that the formal ceremony
of the adoption was delayed for some years.

[29] X. I received you--into my kingdom--In meuum regnum accepi. By these words it is only
signified that Micipsa received Jugurtha into his palace so as to bring him up with his own
children. The critics who suppose that there is any allusion to the adoption, or a pretended
intention of it on the part of Micipsa, are evidently in the wrong.

[30] Pre-eminent merit--Gloria. Our English word glory is too strong.

[31] By the fidelity which you owe to my kingdom--Per regni fidem. This seems to be the best
of all the explanations that have been offered of these words. "Per fidem quam tu rex (futurus)
mihi regi praestare debes." Bournouf. "Per fidem quae decet in regno, i. e. regem." Dietsch.
"Per eam fidem, qua esse decet eum qui regnum obtinet. Kritzius.

[32] It is not armies, or treasures, etc.--[Greek: Ou tode to chrusoun skaeptron to taen basileian
diasozon estin, alla oi polloi philoi skaeptron basileioin ulaethestaton kai asphalestaton.]
"It is not this golden scepter that can preserve a kingdom; but numerous friends are to princes
their trust and safest scepter." Xen. Cyrop., viii. 7,14.

[33] And who can be a greater friend than one brother to another? --Quis autem amicior, quam
frater fratri? "[Greek: Nomiz adelphous tous alaethinous philous] Menander." Wasse.

[34] That I have not adopted a better son, &c--Ne ego meliores liberos sumsissevidear quam
genuisse. As there is no allusion to Micipsa's adoption of any other son than Jugurtha, Sallust's
expression liberos sumsisse can hardly be defended. It is necessary to give son in the singular,
in the translation.

[35] XI. Had spoken insincerely--Ficta locutum. Jugurtha saw that Micipsa pretended more love
for him than he really felt. Compare c. 6,7.

[36] Which is regarded by the Numidians as the seat of honor--Quad apud Numidas honori ducitur.
"I incline," says Sir Henry Steuart, "to consider those manuscripts as the most correct, in
which the word et is placed immediately before apud, Quod et apud Numidas honori ducitur."
Sir Henry might have learned, had he consulted the commentators, that " the word et is placed
immediately before apud" in no manuscript; that Lipsius was the first who proposed its insertion;
and that Crispinus, the only editor who has received it into his text, is ridiculed by Wasse
for his folly. "Lipsius," says Cortius, "cum sciret apud Romanos etiam medium locum honoratiorem
fuisse, corrigit: quod et apud Numidas honori ducitur. Sed quis talia ab historico exegerit?
Si de Numidis narrat, non facile aliquis intulerit, aliter propterea fuisse apud Romanos."

[37] To the other seat--In alteram partem. We must suppose that the three seats were placed
ready for the three princes; that Adherbal sat down first, in one of the outside seats; the
one, namely, that would be on the right hand of a spectator facing them; and that Hiempsal
immediately took the middle seat, on Adherbal's right hand, so as to force Jugurtha to take
the other outside one. Adherbal had then to remove Hiempsal in alteram partem, that is, to
induce him to take the seat corresponding to his own, on the other side of the middle one.

[38] Chief lictor--Proximus lictor. "The proximus lictor was he who, when the lictors walked
before the prince or magistrate in a regular line, one behind the other, was last, or next
to the person on whom they attended." Cortius. He would thus be ready to receive the great
man's commands, and be in immediate communication with him. We must suppose either that Sallust
merely speaks in conformity with the practice of the Romans, or, what is more probable, that
the Roman custom of being preceded by lictors had been adopted in Numidia.

[39] Hut of a maid-servant--Tugurio muliers ancillae Rose renders tugurio "a mean apartment,"
and other translators have given something similar, as if they thought that the servant must
have had a room in the house. But she, and other Numidian servants, may have had huts apart
from the dwelling-house. Tugurium undoubtedly signifies a hut in general.

[40] XIII. Into our province--In Provinciam. "The word province, in this place, signifies that
part of Africa which, after the destruction of Carthage, fell to the Romans by the right of
conquest, in opposition to the kingdom of Micipsa." Wasse.

[41] Having thus accomplished his purposes--Patratis consiliis. After consiliis, in all the
manuscripts, occur the words postquam omnis Numidia potiebatur, which were struck out by Cortius,
as being turpissima glossa. The recent editors, Gerlach, Kritz, Dietsch, and Burnouf, have
restored them.

[42] His intimate friends--Hospitibus. Persons probably with whom he had been intimate at Numantia,
or who had since visited him in Numidia.

[43] The senate--gave audience to both parties--senatus utrisque datur. "The embassadors of
Jugurtha, and Adberbal in person, are admitted into the senate-house to plead their cause."
Burnouf.

[44] By deputation--Procuratione. He was to consider himself only the procurator, manager,
or deputed governor, of the kingdom.

[45] Kindred--and relatives--Cognatorum--affinium. Cognatus is a blood relation; affinis is
properly a relative by marriage.

[46] Hereditary--Ab stirpe.

[47] Next to this--Secundum ea. "Priscianus, lib. xiii., de praepositione agens, Secundum,
inquit, quando pro [Greek: kata ei meta] loco praepositionis est. Sallustius in Jugurthino:
secundum ea, uti deditis uterer.--Videlicet hoc dicit, Secundum in Sallustii exemple, post
vel proxime significare." Rivius.

[48] As I had no power to form the character of Jugurtha--Neque mihi in manu fuit, qualis Jugurtha
foret. "In manu fuit is simply in potestate fuit--Ter. Hec., iv. 4, 44: Uxor quid faciat in
manu non est mea." Cortius.

[49] Dishonored, afflicted--Deformatus aerumnis.

[50] Above all others--Potissimum.

[51] One of us has been murdered, and I, the other, have scarcely escaped the hand of lawlessness--Alter
eorum necatus, alterius ipse ego manus impias vix effugi. This is the general reading, but
it can not be right. Adherbal speaks of himself and his brother as two persons, and of Jugurtha
as a third, and says that of those two the one (alter) has been killed; he would then naturally
proceed to speak of himself as the other; i. e. he would use the word alter concerning himself,
not apply it to Jugurtha. Allen, therefore, proposes to read alter necatus, alter manus impias
vix effugi. This mode of correction strikes out too much; but there is no doubt that the second
alter should be in the nominative case.

[52] From being friendly, has become hostile to me--Ex necessariis adversa facta sunt. "Si
omnia mihi incolumia manerent, neque quidquam rerum mearum (s. praesidiorum) amisissem, neque
Jugurtha aliique mihi ex necessariis inimici facti essent."Kritzius.

[53] But would that I could see him, etc.--Quod utinam illum--videam. The quod, in quod utinam,
is the same as that in quod si, which we commonly translate, but if. Quod, in such expressions,
serves as a particle of connection, between what precedes and what follows it; the Latins being
fond of connection by means of relatives. See Zumpt's Lat. Grammar on this point, Sect. 63,
82, Kenrick's translation. Kritzius writes quodutinam, quodsi, quodnisi, etc., as one word.
Cortius injudiciously interprets quod in this passage as having facientem understood with it.

[54] My life or death depends on the aid of others--Cujus vitae necisque ex opibus alienis
pendet. On the aid of the Romans. Unless they protected him, he expected to meet with the same
fate as Hiempsal at the hands of Jugurtha.

[55] Without disgrace--Sine dedecore. That is, if he did not succeed in getting revenge on
Jugurtha.

[56] By your regard for yourselves, etc.--I have here departed from the text of Cortius, who
reads per, vos, liberos atque parentes, i. e. vos (obsecro) per liberos, etc., as most critics
would explain it, though Cortius himself prefers taking vos as the nominative case, and joining
it with subvenite, which follows. Most other editions have per vos, per liberos, atque parentes
vestros, to which I have adhered. Per vos, though an adjuration not used in modern times, is
found in other passages of the Roman writers. Thus Liv. xxix. 18: Per vos, fidemque vestram.
Cic. pro Planc., c. 42; Per vos, per fortunas vestras.

[57] To sink into ruin--Tabescere. "Paullatim interire." Cortius. Lucret. ii. 1172: Omnia paullatim
tabescere el ire Ad capulum. "This speech," says Gerlach, "though of less weighty argument
than the other speeches of Sallust, is composed with great art. Neither the speaker nor his
cause was adapted for the highest flights of eloquence; but Sallust has shrouded Adherbal's
weakness in excellent language. That there is a constant recurrence to the same topics, is
no ground for blame; indeed, such recurrence could hardly be avoided, for it is natural to
all speeches in which the orator earnestly labors to make his hearers adopt his own feelings
and views. The Romans were again and again to be supplicated, and again and again to be reminded
of the character and services of Masinissa, that they might be induced, if not by the love
of justice, yet by the dread of censure, to relieve the distresses of his grandson.... He omits
no argument or representation that could move the pity of the Romans; and if his abject prostration
of mind appears more suitable to a woman than a man, it is to be remembered that it is purposely
introduced by Sallust to exhibit the weakness of his character."

[58] XV. Aemilius Scaurus--He was princeps senatus(see c. 25), and seems to be pretty faithfully
characterized by Sallust as a man of eminent abilities, but too avaricious to be strictly honest.
Cicero, who alludes to him in many passages with commendation (Off., i. 20, 30; Brut. 29; Pro
Muraen., 7; Pro Fonteio, 7), mentions an anecdote respecting him (De Orat. ii. 70), which shows
that he had a general character for covetousness. See Pliny, H. N, xxxvi. 14. Valerius Maximus
(iii. 7, 8) tells another anecdote of him, which shows that he must have been held in much
esteem, for whatever qualities, by the public. Being accused before the people of having taken
a bribe from Mithridates, he made a few remarks on his own general conduct; and added, "Varius
of Sucro says that Marcus Scaurus, being bribed with the king's money, has betrayed the interests
of the Roman people. Marcus Scaurus denies that he is guilty of what is laid to his charge.
Which of the two do you believe?" The people dismissed the accusation; but the words of Scaurus
may be regarded as those of a man rather seeking to convey a notion of his innocence, than
capable of proving it. The circumstance which Cicero relates is this: Scaurus had incurred
some obloquy for having, as it was said, taken possession of the property of a certain rich
man, named Phyrgio Pompeius, without being entitled to it by any will; and being engaged as
an advocate in some cause, Mommius, who was pleading on the opposite side, seeing a funeral
pass by at the time, said, "Scaurus, yonder is a dead man, on his way to the grave; if you
can but get possession of his property!" I mention these matters, because it has been thought
that Sallust, from some ill-feeling, represents Scaurus as more avaricious than he really was.

[59] His ruling passion--Consueta libidine. Namely, avarice.

[60] XVI. Lucius Opimius--His contention with the party of C. Gracchus may be seen in any history
of Rome. For receiving bribes from Jugurtha he was publicly accused, and being condemned, ended
his life, which was protracted to old age, in exile and neglect. Cic. Brut. 33; Planc. 28.

[61] XVII. Only two divisions, Asia and Europe--Thus Varro, de L. L. iv.13, ed. Bip. "As all
nature is divided into heaven and earth, so the heaven is divided into regions, and the earth
into Asia and Europe." See Bronkh. ad Tibull., iv. 1, 176.

[62] The strait connecting our sea with the ocean--Fretum nostri maris et oceani. That is,
the Fretum Gaditanum, or Strait of Gibraltar. By our see, he means the Mediterranean. See Pomp.
Mela, i. 1.

[63] A vast sloping tract--Catabathmos--Declivem latitudinem, quem locum Catabathmon incolae
appellant. Catabathmus--vallis repente convexa, Plin. H. N. v 5. Catabathmus, vallis devexa
in Aegyptum, Pomp. Mela, i. 8. I have translated declivem latitudinem in conformity with these
passages. Catabathmus, a Greek word, means a descent. There were two, the major and minor;
Sallust speaks of the major.

[64] Most of them die by the gradual decay of age--Plerosque senectus dissolvit "A happy expression;
since the effect of old age on the bodily frame is not to break it in pieces suddenly, but
to dissolve it, as it were, gradually and imperceptibly." Burnouf.

[65] King Hiempsal--"This is not the prince that was murdered by Jugurtha, but the king who
succeeded him; he was grandson of Masinissa, son of Gulussa, and father of Juba. After Juba
was killed at Thapsus, Caesar reduced Numidia to the condition of a province, and appointed
Sallust over it, who had thus opportunities of gaining a knowledge of the country, and of consulting
the books written in the language of it." Burnouf.

[66] XVIII. Getulians and Lybians--Gaetuli et Libyes, "See Pompon. Mel. i. 4; Plin. H. N. v.
4, 6, 8, v. 2, xxi. 13; Herod, iv. 159, 168." Gerlach. The name Gaetuli, is, however, unknown
to Herodotus. They lay to the south of Numidia and Mauretania. See Strabo, xvii. 3. Libyes
is a term applied by the Greek writers properly to the Africans of the North coast, but frequently
to the inhabitants of Africa in general.

[67] His army, which was composed of various nations--This seems to have been an amplification
of the adventure of Hercules with Geryon, who was a king in Spain. But all stories that make
Hercule a leader of armies appear to be equally fabulous.

[68] Medes, Persians and Armenians--De Brosses thinks that these were not real Medes, etc.,
but that the names were derived from certain companions of Hercules. The point is not worth
discussion.

[69] Our sea--The Mediterranean. See above, c. 17.

[70] More toward the Ocean--Intra oceanum magis. "Intra oceanum is differently explained by
different commentators. Cortius, Muller and Gerlach, understand the parts bounded by the ocean,
lying close upon it, and stretching toward the west; while Langius thinks that the regions
more remote from the Atlantic Ocean, and extending toward the east, are meant. But Langius
did not consider that those who had inverted keels of vessels for cottages, could not have
strayed far from the ocean, but must have settled in parts bordering upon it. And this is what
is signified by intra oceanum. For intra aliquam rem is not always used to denote what is actually
in a thing, and circumscribed by its boundaries, but what approaches toward it, and reaches
close to it." Kritzius. He then instances intra modum, intra legem; Hortensii scripta intra
famam sunt, Quintil. xi. 8, 8. But the best example which he produces is Liv. xxv. 11: Fossa
ingens ducta, et vallum, intra eam erigitur. Cicero, in Verr. iii. 89, has also, he notices,
the same, expression, Locus intra oceanum jam nullus est--quo non nostrorum hominum libido
iniquitasque pervaserit, i. e.. locus oceano conterminus. Burnouf absurdly follows Langius.

[71] Numidians--Numidas. The same as Nomades, or wanderers; a term applied to pastoral nations,
and which, as Kritzius observes, the Africans must have had from the Greeks, perhaps those
of Sicily.

[72] More to the sun--sub sole magis. I have borrowed this expression from Rose. The Getulians
were more southward.

[73] These soon built themselves towns--That is, the united Medes, Armenians, and Libyans.

[74] Medes--into Moors--Mauris pro Medis. A most improbable, not to say impossible corruption.

[75] Of the Persians--Persarum. That is, of the Persians and Getulians united.

[76] The two parties--Utrique. The older Numidians, and the younger, who had emigrated toward
Carthage.

[77] Those who had spread toward our sea--for the Libyans are less warlike than the Getulians--Magis
hi, qui ad nostrum mare processerant; quia Libyes quam Gaetuli minus bellicosi. The Persians
and Getulians (under the name of Numidians), and their colonists, who were more toward the
Mediterranean, and were more warlike than the Libyans (who were united with the Medes and Armenians)
took from them portions of their territories by conquest. This is clearly the sense, as deducible
from the preceding portion of the text.

[78] Lower Africa--Africa pars inferior. The part nearest to the sea. The ancients called the
maritime parts of a country the lower parts, and the inland parts the higher, taking the notion,
probably, from the course of the rivers. Lower Egypt was the part at the mouth of the Nile.

[79] XIX. Hippo--"It is not Hippo Regius" (now called Bona) "that is meant, but another Hippo,
otherwise called Diarrhytum or Zarytum, situate in Zengitana, not far from Utica. This is shown
by the order in which the places are named, as has already been observed by Cortius." Kritzius.

[80] Leptis--There were two cities of this name. Leptis Major, now Lebida, lay between the
two Syrtes; Leptis Minor, now Lempta, between the smaller Sytis and Carthage. It is the latter
that is meant here, and in c. 77, 78.

[81] Next to the Catabathmos--Ad Catabathmon. Ad means, on the side of the country toward the
Catabathmos. "Catabathmon initium ponens Sallustius ab eo discedit." Kritzius.

[82] Along the sea-coast--Secundo mari. "Si quis secundum mare pergat" Wasse.

[83] Of Therseans--Theraeon. From the island of Thera, one of the Sporades, in the Aegean Sea,
now called Santorin. Battus was the leader of the colony. See Herod., iv. 145; Strab., xvii.
8; Pind. Pyth., iv.

[84] Two Syrtes--See c. 78.

[85] Leptis--That is, Leptis Major. See above on this c.

[86] Altars of the Philaeni--see c. 79.

[87] To the south of Numidia--Super Numidiam. "Ultra Numidiam, meridiem versus." Burnouf.

[88] Had lately possessed--Novissime habuerant. In the interval between the second and third
Punic wars.

[89] XXI. Both armies took up, etc.--I have omitted the word interim at the beginning of this
sentence, as it would be worse than useless in the translation. It signifies, during the interval
before the armies came to an engagement; but this is sufficiently expressed at the termination
of the sentence.

[90] Cirta--Afterward named Sittianorum Colonia, from P. Sittius Nucerinus (mentioned in Cat.,
c. 21), who assisted Caesar in the African war, and was rewarded by him with the possession
of this city and its lands. It is now called Constantina, from Constantine the Great, who enlarged
and restored it when it had fallen into decay. Strabo describes it, xvii. 3.

[91] Twilight was beginning to appear--Obscuro etiam tum lumine. Before day had fairly dawned.

[92] Romans--Togatorum. Romans, with, perhaps, some of the allies, engaged in merchandise,
or other peaceful occupations, and therefore wearing the toga. They are called Italici in c. 26.

[93] Three young men--Tres adolescentes. Cortius includes these words in brackets, regarding
them as the insertion of some sciolist. But a sciolist, as Burnouf observes, would hardly have
thought of inserting tres adolescentes. The words occur in all the MSS., and are pretty well
confirmed by what is said below, c. 25, that when the senate next sent a deputation, they took
care to make it consist of majores natu, nobiles. See on adolescens, Cat., c. 38.

[94] XXII. Told much less than the truth--Sed is rumor clemens erat. "It fell below the truth,
not telling the whole of the atrocity that had been committed." Gruter. "Priscian (xviii. 26)
interprets clemens 'non nimius,' alluding to this passage of Sallust." Kritzius. All the later
commentators have adopted this interpretation, except Burnouf, who adopts the supposition of
Ciacconius, that a vague and uncertain rumor is meant.

[95] Right of nations--Jure gentium. "That is, the right of avenging himself." Rupertus.

[96] XXIV. Pays no regard--Neque--in animo habeat. This letter of Adherbal's, both in matter
and tone, is very similar to his speech in c. 14.

[97] I have experienced, even before--Jam antea expertus sum. He means, in the result of his
speech to the senate.

[98] XXV. Chief of the senate--Princeps senatus. "He whose name was first entered in the censors'
books was called Princeps Senatus, which title used to be given to the person who of those
alive had been censor first (qui primus censor, ex iis qui viverent, fuisset), but after the
year 544, to him whom the censors thought most worthy, Liv., xxvii. 13. This dignity, although
it conferred no command or emolument, was esteemed the very highest, and was usually retained
for life, Liv., xxxiv. 44; xxxix. 52. It is called Principatus; and hence afterward the Emperor
was named Princeps, which word properly denotes rank, and not power." Adam's Rom. Antiq., p. 3.

[99] At length the evil incitements of ambition prevailed--Vicit tamen in avido ingenio pravum
consilium. "Evil propensities gained the ascendency in his ambitious disposition."

[100] XXVI. The Italians--Italici. See c. 21.

[101] XXVII. By the Sempronian law--Lege Sempronia. This was the Lex Sempronia de Provinciis.
In the early ages of the republic, the provinces were decreed by the senate to the consuls
after they were elected; but by this law, passed A.U.C. 631, the senate fixed on two provinces
for the future consuls before their election (Cic. Pro Dom., 9; De Prov. Cons., 2), which they,
after entering on their office, divided between themselves by lot or agreement. The law was
passed by Caius Gracchus. See Adam's Rom. Antiq., p. 105.

[102] Publius Scipio Nasica--"The great-grandson of him who was pronounced by the senate to
be vir optimus; and son of him who, though holding no office at the time, took part in putting
to death Tiberius Gracchus. He was consul with Bestia, A.U.C. 643, and died in his consulship.
Cic. Brut., 34." Burnouf.

[103] Lucius Bestia Calpurnius--"He had been on the side of the nobility against the Gracchi,
and was therefore in favor with the senate. After his consulship he was accused and condemned
by the Mamilian law (c. 40), for having received money from Jugurtha, Cic. Brut. c. 34. De
Brosses thinks that he was the grandfather of that Bestia who was engaged in the conspiracy
of Catilina." Burnouf.

[104] XXIX. For the sake of giving confidence--Fidei causa. "In order that Jugurtha might have
confidence in Bestia, Sextius the quaestor was sent as a sort of hostage into one of Jugurtha's
towns." Cortius.

[105] As if by an evident majority of voices--Quasi per saturam exquisitis sententiis. "The
opinions being taken in a confused manner," or, as we say, in the lump. The sense manifestly
is, that there was (or was said to be) such a preponderating majority in Jugurtha's favor,
that it was not necessary to ask the opinion of each individual in order. Satura, which some
think to be always an adjective, with lanx understood, though lanx, according to Scheller,
is never found joined with it in ancient authors, was a plate filled with various kinds of
fruit, such as was annually offered to the gods. "Lanx plena diversis frugibus in templum Cereris
infertur, quae satura nomine appellatur," Acron. ad Hor. Sat., i. 1, init. "Lanx. referta variis
multisque primitiis, sacris Cereris inferebatur," Diomed., iii. p. 483."Satura, cibi genus
ex variis rebus conditum," Festus sub voce. See Casaubon. de Rom. Satira, ii. 4; Kritzius ad
h. l., and Scheller's Lex. v., Satur. In the Pref. to Justinian's Pandects, that work is called
opus sparsim et quasi per saturam collectum, utile cum inutilibus mixtim.

[106] To preside at the election of magistrates--Ad magistratus rogandos. The presiding magistrate
had to ask the consent of the people, saying Velitis, jubeatis--rogo Quirites.

[107] XXX. To give in full--Perscribere. "To write at length." The reader might suppose, at
first, that Sallust transcribed this speech from some publication; but in that case, as Burnouf
observes, he would rather have said ascribere. Besides, the following hujuscemodi shows that
Sallust did not profess to give the exact words of Memmius. And the speech is throughout marked
with Sallustian phraseology. "The commencement of it, there is little doubt, is imitated from
Cato, of whose speech De Lusitanis the following fragment is extant in Aul. Gell. xiii. 24:
Multa me dehortata sunt huc prodere, anni, aetas, vox vires, senectus." Kritzius.

[108] XXXI. During the last fifteen years--His annis quindecim. "It was at this time, A.U.C.
641, twenty-two years since the death of Tiberius Gracchus, and ten since that of Caius; Sallust,
or Memmius, not to appear to make too nice a computation, takes a mean." Burnouf. The manuscripts,
however, vary; some read fifteen, and others twelve. Cortius conjectured twenty, as a rounder
number, which Kritzius and Dietsch have inserted in their texts. Twenty is also found in the
Editio Victoriana, Florence, 1576.

[109] Your defenders have perished--Perierint vestri defensores. Tiberius and Caius Gracchus,
and their adherents.

[110] Liberty of speech--Libertatem. Liberty of speech is evidently intended.

[111] Every civil and religions obligation--Divina et humana omnia. "They offended against
the laws, when they took bribes from an enemy; against the honor of Rome when they did what
was unworthy of it, and greatly to its injury; and against gods and men, against all divine
and human obligations, when they granted to a wicked prince not only impunity, but even rewards,
for his crimes." Dietsch.

[112] Slaves purchased with money, etc.--Servi, aere parati, etc. This is taken from another
speech of Cato, of which a portion is preserved in Aul. Gell. x. 3: Servi injurias nimis aegre
ferunt; quid illos bono genere natos, magna virtute praeditos, animi habuisse atque habituros,
dum vivent? "Slaves are apt to be too impatient of injuries; and what feelings do you think
that men of good family, and of great merit, must have had, and will have as long as they live?"

[113] Public spirit--Pietas. Under this word are included all duties that we ought to perform
to those with whom we are intimately connected, or on whom we are dependent, as our parents,
our country, and the gods. I have borrowed my translation of the word from Rose.

[114] The marks of favor which proceed from you--Beneficia vestra. Offices of state, civil
and military.

[115] A greater disgrace to lose, etc.--Quod majus dedecus est parta amitere quam omnino non
paravisse. [Greek: Aischion de echontas aphairethaenai ae ktomenous atychaesai] Thucyd. ii. 62.

[116] These times please you less than those, etc.--Illa quam haec tempora magis placent, etc.
"Those times, which immediately succeeded the deaths of the Gracchi, and which were distinguished
for the tyranny of the nobles, and the humiliation of the people; these times, in which the
people have begun to rouse their spirit and exert their liberty." Burnouf.

[117] Embezzlement of the public money--Peculatus aerarii. "Peculator, qui furtum facit pecuniae
publicae." Ascon. Pedian. in Cic. Verr i.

[118] Kings--I have substituted the plural for the singular. "No name was more hated at Rome
than that of a king; and no sentiment, accordingly, could have been better adapted to inflame
the minds of Memmius's hearers, than that which he here utters." Dietsch.

[119] If the crimes of the wicked are suppressed, etc.--Si injuriae non sint, haud saepe auxilii
egeas. "Some foolishly interpret auxilium as signifying auxilium tribunicium, the aid of the
tribunes; but it is evident to me that Sallust means aid against the injuries of bad men, i.e.
revenge or punishment." Kritzius. "If injuries are repressed, or prevented, there will be less
need for the help of good men and it will be of less consequence if they become inactive." Dietsch.

[120] XXXII. Lucius Cassius--This is the man from whom came the common saying cui bono? "Lucius
Cassius, whom the Roman people thought the most accurate and wisest of judges, was accustomed
constantly to inquire, in the progress of a cause, cui bono fuisset, of what advantage any
thing had been." Cic. pro Rosc. Am. 80. "His tribunal," says Valerius Maximus (iii. 7), "was
called, from his excessive severity, the rock of the accused." It was probably on account of
this quality in his character that he was now sent into Numidia.

[121] Under guarantee of the public faith--Interposita fide publica. See Cat.47, 48. So a little
below, fidem suam interponit. Interpono is "to pledge."

[122] XXXIII. In the garb, as much as possible, of a suppliant--Cultu quam maxime miserabili.
"In such a garb as accused persons, or suppliants, were accustomed to adopt, when they wished
to excite compassion, putting on a mean dress, and allowing their hair and beard to grow." Burnouf.

[123] XXXIV. Enjoined the prince to hold his peace--A single tribune might, by such intervention,
offer an effectual opposition to almost any proceeding. On the great power of the tribunes,
see Adam's Rom. Ant., under the head "Tribunes of the People."

[124] Every other act to which anger prompts--Aliis omnibus, qua ira fieri amat. "These words
have given rise to wonderful hallucinations; for Quintilian, ix. 3. 17, having observed that
many expressions of Sallust are borrowed from the Greek, as Vulgus amat fieri, all interpreters,
from Cortius downward, have thought that the structure of Sallust's words must be Greek, and
have taken ira, in this passage, for an ablative, and quae for a nominative plural. Gerlach
has even gone so far as to take liberties with the words cited By Quintilian, and to correct
them, please the gods, into quae in Vulgus amat fieri. But how could there have been such want
of penetration in learned critics, such deficiency in the knowledge of the two languages, that,
when the imitation of the Greek, noticed by Quintilian, has reference merely to the word [Greek:
philei], amat, they should think of extending it to the dependence of a singular verb on a
neuter plural? With truth, indeed, though with much simplicity, does Gerlach observe, that
you will in vain seek for instances of this mode of expression in other writers." Kritzius.
Dietsch agrees with Kritzius; and there will, I hope, be no further doubt that quae is the
accusative and ira the nominative; the sense being, "which anger loves or desires to be done."
Another mode of explanation has been suggested, namely, to understand multitudo as the nominative
case to amat, making ira the ablative; but this method is far more cumbersome, and less in
accordance with the style of Sallust. The words quoted by Quintilian do not refer, as Cortius
erroneously supposes, to this passage, but to some part of Sallust's works that is now lost.

[125] XXXV. Should be disturbed--Movere is the reading of Cortius; moveri that of most other
editors, in conformity with most of the MSS. and early editions.

[126] The times at which he resorted to particular places--Loca atque tempora cuncta. "All
his places and times." There can be no doubt that the sense is what I have given in the text.

[127] In accordance with the law of nations, etc.--As the public faith had been pledged to
Jugurtha for his security, his retinue was on the same footing as that of embassadors, the
persons of whose attendants are considered as inviolable as their own, as long as they commit
no offense against the laws of the country in which they are resident. If any such offense
is committed by an attendant of an embassador, an application is usually made by the government
to the embassador to deliver him up for trial. Bomilcar seems to have been apprehended without
any application having been made to Jugurtha; as, in our own country, the Portuguese embassador's
brother, who was one of his retinue, was apprehended and executed for a murder, by Oliver Cromwell.
See, on this point, Grotius De Jure Bell, et Pac., xviii, 8; Vattel, iv. 9; Burlamaqui on Politic
Law, part iv. ch. 15. Jugurtha, says Vattel, should have given up Bomilcar; but such was not
Jugurtha's object.

[128] At the commencement of the proceedings--In priori actione. That is, when Bomilcar was
apprehended and charged with the murder.

[129] His other subjects would be deterred from obeying him--Reliquos popularis metus invaderet
parendi sibi. "Fear of obeying him should take possession of his other subjects."

[130] That it was a venal city, etc.--Urbem venalem, etc. I consider, with Cortias, that this
is the proper way of taking these words. Some would render them O venal city, etc., because
Livy, Epit. lxiv., has O urbem venalem, but this seems to require that the verb should be in
the second person; and it is probable that in Livy we should either eject the O or read inveneris.
Florus, iii. 1, gives the words in the same way as Sallust.

[131] XXXVI. As propraetor--Pro praetore. With the power of lieutenant-general.

[132] XXXVII. Throughout the year--Totius anni. That is, all that remained of the year.

[133] On the edge of a steep hill--In praerupti montis extremo. "In extremo a scholiast rightly
interprets in margine," Gerlach. Cortius, whom Langius follows, considers that in extremo means
at the bottom; a notion which Kritzius justly condemns; for, as Gerlach asks, what would that
have to do withthe strength of the place? Muller would have us believe that in extremo means
at the top; but if Sallust had meant to say that the city was at the top, he would hardly have
chosen the word extremus for the purpose. Doubtless, as Gerlach observes, the city was on the
top of the hill, which was broad enough to hold it; but the words in extremo signify that the
walls were even with the side of the hill. Of the site of the town of Suthul no traces are
now to be found.

[134] Vineae--Defenses made of hurdles or other wood, and often covered with raw hides, to
defend the soldiers who worked the battering-ram. The word that comes nearest to vineae in
our language is mantelets. Before this word, in many editions, occurs the phrase ob thesauros
oppidi potiundi, which Cortius, whom I follow, omits.

[135] XXXIII. That their defection might thus be less observed--Ita delicta occultiora fore.
Cortius transferred these words to this place from the end of the preceding sentence; Kritzius
and Dietsch have restored them to their former place. Gerlach thinks them an intruded gloss.

[136] The chief centurion--Centurio primi pili.There were sixty centurions in a Roman legion;
the one here meant was the first, or oldest, centurion of the Triarii, or Pilani.

[137] As death was the alternative--Quia mortis metu mutabant. Neither manuscripts nor critics
are agreed about this passage. Cortius, from a suggestion of Palmerius, adopted mutabant; most
other editors have mutabantur; but both are to be taken in the same sense; for mutabant is
equivalent to mutabant se. Cortius's interpretation appears the most eligible: "Permutabantur
cum metuenda morte," i.e. there were those conditions on one side, and death on the other,
and if they did not accept the conditions, they must die. Kritzius fancifully and strangely
interprets, propter mortis metum se mutabant, i.e., alia videbantur atque erant, or the acceptance
of the terms appeared excusable to the soldiers, because they were threatened with death if
they did not accept them. It is worth while to notice the variety of readings exhibited in
the manuscripts collated by Cortius: ten exhibit mutabantur; three, minitabantur; three, multabantur;
three, tenebantur; one, tenebatur; one, cogebantur; one, cogebatur; one, angustiabantur; one,
urgebantur; and one mortis metuebant pericula. There is also, he adds, in some copies, mutabant,
which the Bipont editors and Mueller absurdly adopted.

[138] XXXIX. Under all the circumstances of the case--Ex copia rerum. From the number of things
which he had to consider.

[139] XL. The Latins and Italian allies--Per homines nominis Latini, et socios Italicos. "The
right of voting was not extended to all the Latin people till A.U.C. 664, and the Italian allies
did not obtain it till some years afterward." Kritzius. So that at this period, which was twenty
years earlier, their influence could only be employed in an underhand way. Compare c.42.

[140] Marcus Scaurus--See c. 15. That he was appointed on this occasion, is an evident proof
of his commanding influence.

[141] But the investigation, notwithstanding, was conducted, etc.--Sed quaes tuo exercita,
etc. Scaurus, it is probable, did what he could to mitigate the violence of the proceedings.
Cicero, however, says that Caius Gallus sacerdos, with four consulares, Bestia, Caius Cato,
Albinus, and Opimius, were condemned and exiled by this law of Mamilius. See Brut., c. 34.

[142] XLI. Took, snatched, and seized--Ducere, trahere, rapere. "Ducere conveys the notion
of cunning and fraud; trahere of some degree of force; rapere of open violence." Muller. The
words chiefly refer to offices in the state, as is apparent from what follows.

[141] The parents and children of the soldiers, etc.--

  Quid quod usque proximos
    Revellis agri terminos, et ultra
  Limites clientium
    Salis avarus? Pellitur paternos
  In sinu ferens deos
    Et uxor et vir, sordidosque natos.

                            Hor. Od., ii. 18.

  What can this impious av'rice stay?
  Their sacred landmarks torn away.
  You plunge into your neighbor's grounds,
  And overleap your client's bounds,
  Helpless the wife and husband flee,
  And in their arms, expell'd by thee,
  Their household gods, adored in vain,
  Their infants, too, a sordid train.

[144] Among the nobility--Ex nobilitate. Cortius injudiciously omits those words. The reference
is to the Gracchi.

[145] By means of the allies and Latins--See on, c. 40.

[146] But to a reasonable man it is more agreeable to submit, etc.--Sed bono vinci satius est,
quam malo more injuriam vincere. Bono, sc. viro. "That is, if the nobility had been truly worthy
characters, they would rather have yielded to the Gracchi, than have revenged any wrong that
they had received from them in an unprincipled manner." Dietsch. Thus this is a reflection
on the nobles; in which notion of the passage Allen concurs with Dietsch. Others, as Cortius,
think it a reflection on the too great violence of the Gracchi. The brevity with which Sallust
had expressed himself makes it difficult to decide. Kritzius, who thinks that the remark is
in praise of the Gracchi, supplies the ellipse thus: "Sane concedi debet Gracchis non satis
moderatum animum fuiase; quae res ipsis adeo interitum attulit; sed sic quoque egregii viri
putandi sunt; nam bono vinci," etc. Langius and Burnouf join bono with more, but do not differ
much in their interpretations of the passage from that given by Dietsch.

[147] XLIII. Of a character uniformly irreproachable--Fama tamen aequabili et inviolata. Aequabilis
is uniform, always the same, keeping an even tenor.

[148] Regarded all things as common to himself and his colleague--Ali omnia sibi cum collega
ratus. "Other matters, unconnected with the war against Jugurtha, he thought that he would
have to manage in conjunction with his colleague, and that, consequently, he might give but
partial attention to them; but that the war in Numidia was committed to his sole care." Cortius.
Other interpretations of these words have been suggested; but they are fanciful and unworthy
of notice.

[149] Princes--Reges. Who these were, the commentators have not attempted to conjecture.

[150] XLIV. By Spurius Albinus, the proconsul.--A Spurio Albino proconsule. This is the general
reading. Cortius has, Spurii Albini pro consule, with which we may understand agentis or imperantis,
but can hardly believe it to be what Sallust wrote. Kritzius reads, Spurii Albini proconsulis.

[151] In a stationary camp--Stativis castris. In contradistinction to that which the soldiers
formed at the end of a day's march.

[152] But neither had the camp been fortified, etc.--Sed neque muniebantur ea (se. castra),
neque more militari vigiliae deducebantur. "The words sed neque muniebantur ea are wanting
in almost all the manuscripts, as well as in all the editions, except that of Cyprianus Popma."
Kritzius. Gerlach, however, had, previously to Kritz, inserted them in his text though in brackets;
for he supposed them to be a mere conjecture of some scribe, who was not satisfied with a single
neque. But they have been found in a codex of Fronto, by Angelo Mai, and have accordingly been
received as genuine by Kritz and Dietsch. Potter and Burnouf have omitted the ea, thinking,
I suppose, that in such a position it could hardly be Sallust's; but the verb requires a nominative
case to prevent it from being referred to the following vigiliae.

[153] Foreign wine--Vino advectitio Imported. Africa does not abound in wine.

[154] XLV. With regard to other things--Caeteris. Cortius, whom Gerlach follows, considers
this word as referring to the men or officers; but Kritzius and Dietsch, with better judgment,
understand rebus.

[155] Numerous sentinels--Vigilias crebras. At short intervals, says Kritzius, from each other.

[156] XLVI. Villages--Mapalibus. See c. xviii. The word is here used for a collection of huts,
a village.

[157] Here the consul, to try the disposition of the inhabitants, and, should they allow him,
to take advantage of the situation of the place, etc.--Huc consul, simul tentandi gratia, et
si paterentur, opportuniatis loci, praesidium imponit. This is a locus veratissimus, about
which no editor has satisfied himself. I have deserted Cortius and followed Dietsch, who seems
to have settled the passage, on the basis of Havercamp's text, with more judgment than any
other commentator. Cortius read, Huc consul simul tentandi gratia, si paterent opportunitates
loci, etc., taking opportuniatates in the sense of munitiones, "defenses;" but would Sallust
have said that Metellus put a garrison in the place, to try if its defenses would be open to
him? Havercamp's reading is, simul tentan si gratia, et si paterentur opportunitates loci,
etc. Palmerius conjectured simul tentandi gratia, si paterentur; et opportunitate loci, which
Gerlach and Kritsius adopt, except that they change the place of the et, and put it before
si. Allen thinks that he has amended the passage by reading Huc consul, simul si paterentur
tentandi, et opportunitatis loci, gratia; but this conjecture is liable to similar objection
with that of Cortius. Other varieties of reading it is needless to notice. But it is observable
that four manuscripts, as Kritzius remarks, have propter opportunitates, which led me long
ago to suppose that the true reading must be simul tentandi gratia, simul propter opportunitates
loci. Simul propter might easily have been corrupted into si paterentur.

[158] Frequent arrival of supplies--Commeatum. "Frumenti et omnium rerum quarum in bello usus
est, largam copiam." Kritzius. I follow the text of Cortius (retaining the words juvaturum
ecercitum) which Kritzius sufficiently justifies. There is a variety of readings, but all much
the same in sense.

[159] Extraordinary earnestness--Impensius modo. Cortius and Kritzius interpret this modo as
the ablative case of modus; i. e. quam modus erat, or supra modum; but Dietsch and Burnouf
question the propriety of this interpretation, and consider the modo to be the same as that
in tantummodo, dummodo, etc. The same expression occurs again in c. 75.

[160] XLVIII. Running parallel with the stream--Tractu pari. It may be well to illustrate this
and the following chapter by a copy of the lines which Cortius has drawn, "to excite," as he
says, "the imagination of his readers:"

                  River Muthul, flowing from the south
                 --------------------------------------------------
                                                          I  Hill on
                North                                     I  which
            <-----------                   I              I  Jugurtha
                                           I              I  posted
                                           I              I  himself
                 --------------------------------------------------
                  Range of hills, parallel I with the Muthul
                                           I
                                           I  Route of Metellus
                                           I

[161] XLIX. In a transverse direction--Transverso itinere. It lay on the flank of the Romans
as they marched toward the river, in dextero latere, c.49, fin.

[162] Well acquainted with the country--Prudentes. "Periti loci et regionis." Cortius.Or it
may mean knowing what they were to do, while the enemy would be imperiti, surprised and perplexed.

[163] Would crown--Confirmaturum. Would establish, settle, put the last hand to them.

[164] Was seen--Conspicitur. This is the reading adopted by Cortius, Mueller, and Allen, as
being that of all the manuscripts. Havercamp, Kritzius, and Dietsch admitted into their texts,
on the sole authority of Donatus ad Ter. Eun. ii. 3, conspicatur, i.e. (Metellus) catches sight
of the enemy. The latter reading, perhaps, makes a better connection.

[165] Rendering it uncertain--Incerti. Presenting such an appearance that a spectator could
not be certain what they were.

[166] He drew up these in the right wing--in three lines--In dextero latere triplicibus subsidiis
aciem instruxit. In the other passages in which Sallust has the word subsidia (Cat. c. 59),
he uses it for the lines behind the front. Thus he says of Catiline, Octo cohortes in fronte
constituit; reliqua signa in subsidiis arctius collocat; and of Petreius, Cohortes veteranas--in
fronte; post eas reliquum exercitum in subsidiis locat. But whether he uses the word in the
same sense here; whether we might, as Cortius thinks (whom Gerlach and Dietsch follow), call
the division of Metellus's troops quadruple instead of triple, or whether he arranged them
as De Brosses and others suppose, in the usual disposition of Hastati, Principes, and Triarii,
who shall place beyond dispute? The probability, however, if Sallust is consistent with himself
in his use of the word, lies with Cortius. Gerlach refers to Caesar, De Bell, Civ., iii. 89:
"Celeriter ex tertia acie singulas cohortes detraxit, atque ex his quartam instituit; but this
does not illustrate Sallust's use of the word subsidia: Caesar forms a fourth acies; Metellus
draws up one acies triplicibus subsidia".

[167] With the front changed into a flank--Transversis principiis. He made the whole army wheel
to the left, so that what was their front line, or principia, as they faced the enemy on the
hill, became their flank as they marched from the mountain toward the river.

[168] L. Behind the front line--Post principia. The principia are the same as those mentioned
in the preceding note, that is, the front line when the army faced that of Jugurtha on the
hill, but which presented its flank to the enemy when the army was on its march. So that Marius
commanded in the center ("in medio agmine," says Dietsch), while Metellus took the lead with
the cavalry of the left wing. See the following note.

[169] Cavalry on the left wing--which, on the march, had become the van--Sinistrae ulae equitibus--qui
in agmine principes facti erant. When Metellus halted (c. 49, fin.), and drew up his troops
fronting the hill on which Jugurtha was posted, he placed all his cavalry in the wings; consequently,
when the army wheeled to the left, and marched forward, the cavalry of the left wing became
the van.

[170] LI. Of the whole struggle--Totius negotii. That is, on the side of the Romans.

[171] LII. The enemy's ignorance of the country--Regio hostibus ignara. Ignara for ignota;
a country unknown to the enemy.

[172] LIII. Fatigued and exhausted--Fessi lassique. I am once more obliged to desert Cortius,
who reads laetique. The sense, as Kritzius and Dietsch observe, shows that laeti can not be
the reading, for there must evidently be a complete antithesis between the two parts of the
sentence; an antithesis which would be destroyed by the introduction of laeti. Gerlach, though
he retains laeti in his text, condemns it in his notes.

[173] LIV. Which could only be conducted, etc.--Quod, nisi ex illius lubidine, geri non posset.
Cortius omits the non before posset, but almost every other editor, except Allen, has retained
it, from a conviction of necessity.

[174] Under these circumstances, however--Ex copia tamen. With copia we must understand consiliorum
or rerum, as at the end of c. 39. All the manuscripts, except two, have inopia, which editors
have justly rejected as inconsistent with the sense.

[175] LV. A thanksgiving--Supplicia. The same as supplicatio, on which the reader may consult
Adam's Rom. Ant., or Dr. Smith's Dictionary.

[176] LVI. Dared not be guilty of treachery--Fallere nequibant. "Through dread of the severest
punishments if they should fall into the hands of the Romans. Valerius Maximus, ii. 7, speaks
of deserters having been deprived of their hands by Quintus Fabius Maximus; of others who were
crucified or beheaded by the elder Africanus; of others who were thrown to wild beasts by Africanus
the younger; and of others who were sentenced by Paulus Aemilius to be trampled to death by
elephants. Hence it appears that the punishment of deserters was left to the pleasure of the
general." Burnouf.

[177] Sicca--It stood on the banks of the Bagradas, at some distance from the coast, and contained
a celebrated Temple of Venus. Val. Max., ii. 6. D'Anville thinks it the same as the modern Kef.

[178] LVII. Javelins--Pila. This pilum may have been, as Mueller suggests, similar to the falarica
which Livy (xxi. 8) says that the Saguntines used against their besiegers. Falarica erat Saguntinis,
missile telum hastili abiegno--id, sicut in pilo, quadratum stuppa circumligabant, linebantque
pice:--quod cum medium accensum mitteretur, etc. Of Sallust's other words, in the latter part
of this sentence, the sense is clear, but the readings of different editors are extremely various.
Havercamp gives pice et sulphure taedam mixtam ardentia mittere, which has been adopted by
Kritzius and Dietsch, except that they have changed ardentia, on the authority of some of the
manuscripts, into ardenti.

[179] LIX. And thus, with the aid of the light-armed foot, almost succeeded in giving the enemy
a defeat--Ita expeditis peditibus suis hostes paene victos dare. Cortius, Kritzius, and Allen,
concur in regarding expeditis peditibus as an ablative of the instrument, i.e. as equivalent
to per expeditos pedites and victos dare as nothing more than vincere. This appears to be the
right mode of explanation; but most of the translators, French as well as English, have taken
expeditis peditibus as a dative, and given to the passage the sense that "the cavalry delivered
up the enemy, when nearly conquered, to be dispatched by the light-armed foot."

[180] LX. Attacks, or preparations for defense, were made in all quarters--Oppugnare aut parare
omnibus locis. There is much discussion among the critics whether these verbs are to be referred
to the besiegers or the besieged. Cortius and Gerlach attribute oppugnare to the Romans, and
parare to the men of Zama; a distinction which Kritzius justly condemns. There can be little
doubt that they are spoken of both parties equally.

[181] LXI. The rest of his forces--in that part of our province nearest to Numidia--Caeterum
exercitum in provinciam, quae proxima est Numidiae, hiemandi gratia collocat. "The words quae
proxima est Numidiae Cortius would eject as superfluous and spurious. But it is to be understood
that Metellus did not distribute his troops through the whole of the province, but in that
part which is nearest to Numidia, in order that they might be easily assembled in case of an
attack of the enemy or any other emergency. There is, therefore, no need to read with the Bipont
edition and Mueller, qua proxima, etc. though this is in itself not a bad conjecture." Kritzius.

[182] LXII. Was summoned to appear in person at Tisidium, etc. --Cum ipse ad imperandum Tisidium
vocaretur. The gerund is used, as grammarians say, in a passive sense. "The town of Tisidium
is nowhere else mentioned. Strabo (xvii. 3, p. 488, Ed. Tauch.) speaks of a place named [Greek:
Tisiaioi], which was utterly destroyed, and not a vestige of it left." Gerlach.

[183] LXIII. Sacrificing to the gods--Per hostias dis supplicante. Supplicating or worshiping
the gods with sacrifices, and trying to learn their intentions as to the future by inspection
of the entrails. "Marius was either a sincere believer in the absurd superstitions and dreams
of the soothsayers, or pretended to be so, from a knowledge of the nature of mankind, who are
eager to listen to wonders, and are ore willing to be deceived than to be taught." Burnouf.
See Plutarch, Life of Marius. He could interpret omens for himself, according to Valerius Maximus,
i. 5.

[184] The people--disposed of, etc.--Etiam tum alios magistratus plebes, consulatum nobilitas,
inter se per manus tradebat. The commentators have seen the necessity of understanding a verb
with plebes. Kritzius suggests habebat; Gerlach grebat or accipiebat.

[185] A disgrace to it--Pollutus. He was considered, as it were, unclean. See Cat., c. 23, fin.

[186] LXIV. As soon as the public business would allow him--Ubi primum potuisset per negotia
publica. As soon as he could through (regard to) the public business.

[187] With his own son--Cum filio suo. With the son of Metellus. He tells Marius that it would
be soon enough for him to stand for the consulship in twenty-three years' time, the legitimate
age for the consulship being forty-three.

[188] In the camp with his father--Contubernio patris. He was among the young noblemen in the
consul's retinue, who were sent out to see military service under him. This was customary.
See Cic. Pro Cael. Pro Planc. 11.

[189] LXV. Which was as weak as his body--Ob morbos--parum valido. Sallust had already expressed
this a few lines above.

[190] Merchants--Negotiatores. "Every one knows that Romans of equestrian dignity were accustomed
to trade in the provinces." Burnouf.

[191] With the most honorable demonstrations in his favor --Honestissima suffragatione. "Suffragatio
was the zealous recommendation of those who solicited the votes of their fellow-citizens in
favor of some candidate. See Festus, s.v. Suffragatores, p. 266, Lindem." Dietsch. It was honorable,
in the case of Marius, as it was without bribery, and seemed to have the good of the republic
in view.

[192] The Mamilian law--See c. 40.

[193] LXVI. Advantageous positions--Suos locos. Places favorable for his views. See Kritzius
on c. 54.

[194] LXVII. Were in trepidation. At the citadel, etc.--I have translated this passage in conformity
with the texts of Gerlach, Kritzius, Dietsch, Mueller, and Allen, who put a point between trepidare
and ad arcem. Cortina, Havercamp, and Burnouf have trepidare ad arcem, without any point. Which
method gives the better sense, any reader can judge.

[195] On the roofs of the houses--Pro tectis aedificiorum. In front of the roofs of the houses;
that is, at the parapets. "In prima tectorum parte." Kritzius. The roofs were flat.

[196] Worthless and infamous character--Improbus intestabilisque. These words are taken from
the twelve tables of the Roman law: See Aul. Gell. vi. 7, xv. 3. Horace, in allusion to them,
has intestabilis et sacer, Sat. ii. 3.181, Intestabilis signified a person to be of so infamous
a character that he was not allowed to give evidence in a court of justice.

[197] LXVIII. Averse to further exertion--Tum abnuentes omnia. Most of the translators have
understood by these words that the troops refused to obey orders; but Sallust's meaning is
only that they expressed, by looks and gestures, their unwillingness to proceed.

[198] LXIX As a native of Latium--Nam is civis ex Latio erat. "As he was a Latin, he was not
protected by the Porcian law (see Cat., c. 51), though how far this law had power in the camp,
is not agreed." Allen. Gerlach thinks that it had the same power in the camp as elsewhere,
with reference to Roman citizens. But Roman citizenship was not extended to the Latins till
the end of the Social War, A.U.C. 662. Plutarch, however, in his Life of Caius Gracchus (c.
9), speaks of Livius Drusus having been abetted by the patricians in proposing a law for exempting
the Latin soldiers from being flogged, about thirty years earlier; and it seems to have been
passed, but, from this passage of Sallust, appears not to have remained in force. Lipsius touches
on this obscure point in his Militia Romana, v. 18, but settles nothing. Plutarch, in his Life
of Marius, c. 8, says that Turpilius was an old retainer of the family of Metellus, whom he
attended, in this war, as prafectus fabrum, or master of the artificers; that, being afterward
appointed governor of Vacea, he exercised his office with great justice and humanity, that
his life was spared by Jugurtha at the solicitation of the inhabitants; that, when he was brought
to trial, Metellus thought him innocent, and that he would not have been condemned but for
the malice of Marius, who exasperated the other members of the council against him. He adds,
that after his death, his innocence became apparent, and that Marius boasted of having planted
in the breast of Metellus an avenging fury, that would not fail to torment him for having put
to death the innocent friend of his family. Hence Sir Henry Steuart has accused Sallust of
wilfully misrepresenting the character of Turpilius, as well as the whole transaction. But
as much credit is surely due to Sallust as to Plutarch.

[199] LXX. To which Jugurtha--was unable to attend--Quae Jugartha, fesso, aut majoribus astricto,
superaverant. "Which had remained to (or been too much for) Jugurtha, when weary, or engaged
in more important affairs."

[200] Among the winter-quarters of the Romans--Inter hiberna Romanorum.It is stated in c. 61,
as Kritzius observes, that Metellus, when he put his army into winter-quarters, had, at the
same time, placed garrisons in such of Jugurtha's towns as had revolted to him. The forces
of the Romans being thus dispersed, Nabdalsa might justly be said to have his army inter hiberna,
"among their winter-quarters."

[201] LXXI. Behind his head--Super caput. On the back of the bolster that supported his head;
part of which might be higher than the head itself.

[202] LXXIIL The factious tribunes--Seditiosi magistratus.

[203] After the lapse of many years--Post multas tempestates. Apparently the period since A.U.C.
611, when Quintus Pompeius, who, as Cicero says (in Verr. ii. 5), was humile atque obscuro
loco natus, obtained the consulship; that is, a term of forty-three or forty-four years.

[204] That decree was thus rendered abortive--Ea res frustra fuit. By a lex Sempronia, a law
of Caius Gracchus, it was enacted that the senate should fix the provinces for the future consuls
before the comitia for electing them were held. But from Jug. c. 26, it appears that the consuls
might settle by lot, or by agreement between themselves, which of those two provinces each
of them should take. How far the senate were allowed or accustomed in general, to interfere
in the arrangement, it is not easy to discover: but on this occasion they had taken on themselves
to pass a resolution in favor of the patrician. Lest similar scenes, however, to those of the
Sempronian times should be enacted, they yielded the point to the people.

[205] LXXV. Thala--The river on which this town stood is not named by Sallust, but it appears
to have been the Bagrada. It seems to have been nearly destroyed by the Romans, after the defeat
of Juba, in the time of Julius Caesar; though Tacitus, Ann. iii. 21, mentions it as having
afforded a refuge to the Romans in the insurrection of the Numidian chief, Tacfarinas. D'Anville
and Dr. Shaw, Travels in Bombay, vol. i. pt. 2, ch. 5, think it the same with Telepte, now
Ferre-anah; but this is very doubtful. See Cellar. iv. 5. It was in ruins in the time of Strabo.

[206] Had done more than was required of them--Officia intenderant. "Auxit intenditque saevitiam
exacerbatus indicio filii sui Drusi" Suet. Tib. 62.

[207] LXXVI. Nor did he ever--continue, etc.--Neque postea--moratus, simulabat, etc.--Most
editors take moratus for morans; Allen places a colon after it, as if it were for moratus est.

[208] And erected towns upon it to protect, etc.--Et super aggerem impositis turribus epus
et administros tutari. "And protected the work and the workmen with towers placed on the mound."
Impositis turribus is not the ablative absolute, but the ablative of the instrument.

[209] LXXVII. Leptis--Leptis Major, now Lebida. In c. 19, Leptis Minor is meant.

[210] Their own safety--Suam salutem: i.e. the safety of the people of Leptis.

[211] LXXVIII. Which take their name from their nature--Quibus nomen ex re inditum. From [Greek:
surein], to draw, because the stones and sand were drawn to and fro by the force of the wind
and tide. But it has been suggested that this etymology is probably false; it is less likely
that their name should be from the Greek than from the Arabic, in which sert signifies a desert
tract or region, a term still applied to the desert country bordering on the Syrtea. See Ritter,
Allgem. vergleich, Geog. vol. i. p. 929. The words which, in Havercamp, close this description
of the Syrtes, "Syrtes ab tractu nominatae", and which Gruter and Putschius suspected not to
be Sallust's, Cortius omitted; and his example has been followed by Muller and Burnouf; Gerlach,
Kritzius, and Dietsch, have retained them. Gerlach, however, thinks them a gloss, though they
are found in every manuscript but one.

[212] Almost at the extremity of Africa--Prope in extrema Africa. "By extrema Africa Gerlach
rightly understands the eastern part of Africa, bordering on Egypt, and at a great distance
from Numidia." Kritzius.

[213] The language alone--Lingua modo.

[214] From the king's dominions--Ab imperio regis. "Understand Masinissa's, Micipsa's, or Jugurtha's."
Burnouf.

[215] LXXIX. Philaeni--The account of these Carthaginian brothers with a Greek name, philainoi,
praise-loving, is probably a fable. Cortius thinks that the inhabitants, observing two mounds
rising above the surrounding level, fancied they must have been raised, not by nature, but
by human labor, and invented a story to account for their existence. "The altars," according
to Mr. Rennell (Geog. of Herod., p. 640), "were situated about seven ninths of the way from
Carthage to Cyrene; and the deception," he adds, "would have been too gross, had it been pretended
that the Carthaginian party had traveled seven parts in nine, while the Cyrenians had traveled
no more than two such parts of the way." Pliny (II. N. v. 4) says that the altars were of sand;
Strabo (lib. iii.) says that in his time they had vanished. Pomponius Mela and Valerius Maximus
repeat the story, but without adding any thing to render it more probable.

[216] Devoid of vegetation--Nuda gignentium. So c. 93, cunota gignentium natura. Kritzius justly
observes that gignentia is not to be taken in the sense of genita, as Cortius and others interpret,
but in its own active sense; the ground was bare of all that was productive, or of whatever
generates any thing. This interpretation is suggested by Perizonius ad Sanctu Minerv. i. 15.

[217] Sacrificed themselves--Seque vitamque--condonavere. "Nihil aliud est quam vitam suam,
sc.[Greek: eu dia dyoin]." Allen.

[218] LXXX. Sell--honorable or dishonorable--Omnia honesta atque inhonesta vendere. See Cat.
c. 30. They had been bribed by Jugurtha to use their influence against Bocchus.

[219] A daughter of Bocchus, too, was married to Jugurtha--Jugurthae filia Bocchi nupserat.
Several manuscripts and old editions have Boccho, making Bocchus the son-in-law of Jugurtha.
But Plutarch (Vit. Mar. c. 10, Sull. c. 8) and Florus (iii. 1) agree in speaking of him as
Jugurtha's father-in-law. Bocchus was doubtless an older man than Jugurtha, having a grown
up son, Volux, c. 105. Castilioneus and Cortius, therefore, saw the necessity of reading Bocchi,
and, other editors have followed them, except Gerlach, "who," says Kritzius, "has given Bocchi
in his larger, and Boccho in his smaller and more recent edition, in order that readers using
both may have an opportunity of making a choice."

[220] No one of them becomes a companion to him--Nulla pro socia obtinet The use of obtinet
absolutely, or with the word dependent on it understood, prevails chiefly among the later Latin
writers. Livy, however, has fama obtinuit, xxi. 46. "The tyro is to be reminded," says Dietsch,
"that obtinet is not the same as habetar, but is always for locum obtinet."

[221] LXXXI. The two kings, with their armies--The text has only exercitus.

[222] To lessen Bocchus's chance of peace--Bocchi pacem imminuere. He wished to engage Bocchus
in some act of hostility against the Romans, so as to render any coalition between them impossible.

[223] LXXXII. Should have learned something of the Moors --Cognitis Mauris, i.e. after knowing
something of the Moors, and not before. Cognitis militibus is used in the same way in c. 39;
and Dietsch says that amicitia Jugurthae parum cognita is for nondum cognita, c. 14.

[224] LXXXIV. Discharged veterans--Homines emeritis stipendiis. Soldiers who had completed
their term of service.

[225] Means of warfare--Usum belli. That is ea quae belli usus posceret, troops and supplies.

[226] Cherished the fancy--Animis trahebant. "Trahere animo is always to revolve in the mind,
not to let the thought of a thing escape from the mind." Kritzius.

[227] LXXXV. Its interests ought to be managed, etc.--Majore cura illam administrari quam haec
peti debere. Cortius injudiciously omits the word illam. No one has followed him but Allen.

[228] Hostile--Occursantis. Thwarting, opposing.

[229] That you may not be deceived in me--Ut neque vos capiamini. "This verb is undoubtedly
used in this passage for decipere. Compare Tibull. Eleg. iii. 6, 45: Nec vos aut capiant pendentia
brachia collo, Aut fallat blanda sordida tingua prece. Cic. Acad. iv. 20: Sapientis vim maximam
esse cavere, ne capiatur." Gerlach.

[230] To secure their election--Per ambitionem. Ambire is to canvass for votes; to court the
favor of the people.

[231] Of yonder crowd of nobles--ex illo globo nobilitatis. Illo, [Greek: deiktikos].

[232] I know some--who after they have been elected, etc.--"At whom Marina directs this observation,
it is impossible to tell. Gerlach referring to Cic. Quest. Acad. ii. 1, 2, thinks that Lucullus
is meant. But if he supposes that Lucullus was present to the mind of Marius when he spoke,
he is egregiously deceived, for Marius was forty years antecedent to Lucullus. It is possible,
however, that Sallust, thinking of Lucullus when he wrote Marius's speech, may have fallen
into an anachronism, and have attributed to Marius, whose character he had assumed, an observation
which might justly have been made in his own day." Kritzius.

[233] Persons who invert the order of things--Homines Praeposteri. Men who do that last which
should be done first. This is imitated from Demosthenes, Olynth. iii.: [Greek: To gar prattein
ton legein kai cheirotonein, usteron on tae taxei, proteron tae dynamei kai kreitton esti.]
"Acting is posterior in order to speaking and voting, but prior and superior in effect."

[235] With those haughty nobles--Cum illorum superbui. Virtus Scipiades et mitis sapientia Laeli.

[236] My condition Mihi fortuna. "That is, my lot, or condition, in which I was born, in which
I had no hand in producing." Dietsch.

[237] The circumstance of birth, etc. Naturam unam et communem omnium existumo. "Nascendi sortem"
is the explanation which Dietsch gives to naturam. One man is born as well as another, but
the difference between men is made by their different modes of action; a difference which the
nobles falsely suppose to proceed from fortune. "Voltaire, Mohammed, Act.I., sce. iv., has
expressed the sentiment of Sallust exactly:

  Les mortels sont egaux, ce n'est point la naissance,
  C'est la seule vertu qui fait leur difference."    Burnouf.

[238] And could it be inquired of the fathers, etc.--Ac, si jam ex patribus Alibini aut Bestiae
quaeri posset, etc. Patres, in this passage, is not, as Anthon imagines, the same as majores;
as is apparent from the word gigni. The fathers of Albinus and Bestia were probably dead at
the time that Marius spoke. The passage which Anthon quotes from Plutarch to illustrate patres,
is not applicable, for the word there is [Greek: pragonoi: Epunthaneto ton paronton, ei mae
kai tous ekeinon oiontai progonous auto mallon an emxasthai paraplaesious ekgonous apolitein,
ate dae maed autous di eugeneian, all ap aretaes kai kalon ergon endoxous genomenous.] Vit.
Mar. c. 9. "He would then ask the people whether they did not think that the ancestors of those
men would have wished rather to leave a posterity like him, since they themselves had not risen
to glory by their high birth, but by their virtue and heroic achievements?" Langhorne.

[239] Abstinence--Innocentiae. Abstinence from all vicious indulgence.

[240] Honorable exertion--Virtutis. See notes on Cat. c. 1, and Jug. c. 1.

[241] They occupy the greatest part of their orations in extolling their ancestors--Pleraque
oratione majores suos extollunt. "They extol their ancestors in the greatest part of their speech."

[242] The glory of ancestors sheds a light on their posterity, Juvenal, viii.138:

  Incipit ipsorum contra te stare parentum
  Nobilitas, claramque facem praeferre pudendis.

  Thy fathers' virtues, clear and bright, display
  Thy shameful deeds, as with the light of day.

[243] I feel assured--Ex animi sententia. "It was a common form of strong asseveration." Gerlach.

[244] Spears--Hastas. "A hasta pura, that is a spear without iron, was anciently the reward
of a soldier the first time that he conquered in battle, Serv. ad Virg. Aen. vi. 760; it was
afterward given to one who had struck down an enemy in a sally or skirmish, Lips. ad Polyb.
de Milit. Rom. v.17." Burnouf.

[245] A banner--Vexillum. "Standards were also military rewards. Vopiscus relates that ten
hastae purae, and four standards of two colors, were presented to Aurelian. Suetonius (Aug.
25) says that Agrippa was presented by Augustus, after his naval victory, with a standard of
the color of the sea. These standards therefore, were not, as Badius Ascensius thinks, always
taken from the enemy; though this was sometimes the case, as appears from Sil. Ital. x.v. 261:

  Tunc hasta viris, tunc martia cuique
  Vexilla, ut meritum, et praedae libamina, dantur." Burnouf.

[246] Caparisons--Phaleras. "Sil. Ital. xv. 255:

  Phaleris hic pectora fulget:
  Hic torque aurato circumdat bellica collae.

Juvenal, xv. 60:

  Ut laeti phaleris omnes et torquibus omnes.

These passages show that phalerae, a name for the ornaments of horses, were also decorations
of men; but they differed from the torques, or collars, in this respect, that the phalerae
hung down over the breast, and the torques only encircled the neck.

[247] Valor--Virtutem. "The Greeks, those illustrious instructors of the world, had not been
able to preserve their liberty; their learning therefore had not added to their valor. Virtus,
in this passage, is evidently fortitudo bellica, which, in the opinion of Marius, was the only
virtue." Burnouf. See Plutarch, Vit. Mar. c. 2.

[248] To be vigilant at my post--Praesidia agitare. Or "to keep guard at my post." "Praesidia
agitare signifies nothing more than to protect a party of foragers or the baggage, or to keep
guard round a besieged city." Vortius.

[249] Keep no actor--Histrionem nullum--habeo. "Luxuriae peregrinae origo ab exercitu Asiatico
(Manlii sc. Vulsonis, A.U.C. 563) invecta in urbem est.----Tum psaltriae sambucistriaeque et
convivalia ludionum obiectamenta, addita epulis." Liv. xxxix. 6. "By this army returning from
Asia was the origin of foreign luxury imported into the city.----At entertainments--were introduced
players on the harp and timbrel, with buffoons for the diversion of the guests." Baker. Professor
Anthon, who quotes this passage, says that histrio "here denotes a buffoon kept for the amusement
of the company." But such is not the meaning of the word histrio. It signifies one who in some
way acted, either by dancing and gesticulation, or by reciting, perhaps to the music of the
sambucistriae or other minstrels. See Smith's Dict. of Gr. and Rom. Ant. Art. Histrio, sect.
2. Scheller's Lex. sub. vv. Histrio, Ludio, and Salto. The emperors had whole companies of
actors, histriones aulici, for their private amusement. Suetonius says of Augustus (c. 74)
that at feasts he introduced acroamata et histriones. See also Spartian. Had. c. 19; Jul.Capitol.
Verus, c.8.

[250] My cook--Coquum. Livy, in the passage just cited from him, adds tum coquus villisimum
antiquis mancipium, et estimatione et usu in pretio esse; ut quod ministerium fuerat, ars haberi
coepta. "The cook, whom the ancients considered as the meanest of their slaves both in estimation
and use, became highly valuable." Baker.

[251] Avarice, inexperience, and arrogance--Avaritiam, imperitiam, superbiam. "The President
De Brosses and Dotteville have observed, that Marius, in these words, makes an allusion to
the characters of all the generals that had preceded him, noticing at once the avarice of Calpurnius,
the inexperience of Albinus, and the pride of Metellus." Le Brun.

[252] For no man, by slothful timidity, has escaped the lot of mortals--Etenim ignavia nemo
immortalis factus. The English translators have rendered this phrase as if they supposed the
sense to be, "No man has gained immortal renown by inaction." But this is not the signification.
What Marius means, is, that no man, however cautiously and timidly he may avoid danger, has
prolonged his life to immortality. Taken in this sense, the words have their proper connection
with what immediately follows: neque quisquam parens liberis, uti aeterni forent, optavit.
The sentiment is the same as in the verse of Horace: Mors et fugacem persequitur virum; or
in these lines of Tyrtaeus:

[Greek: Ou gar kos thanaton ge psygein eimarmenon estin
        Andr', oud' haen progonon hae genos athanaton
        Pollaki daeiotaeta phygon kai doupon akonton
        Erchetai, en d' oiko moira kichen thanaton.]

        To none, 'mong men, escape from death is giv'n,
        Though sprung from deathless habitants of heav'n:
        Him that has fled the battle's threatening sound,
        The silent foot of fate at home has found.

The French translator, Le Brun, has given the right sense: "Jamais la lachete n'a preserve
de la mort;" and Dureau Delamalle: "Pour etre un lache, on n'en serait pas plus immortel."
Ignavia is properly inaction; but here signifies a timid shrinking from danger.

[253] Nor has any parent wished for his children, etc.--[Greek: Ou gar athanatous sphisi paidas
euchontai genesthai, all' agathous kai eukleeis.] "Men do not pray that they may have children
that will never die, but such as will be good and honorable." Plato, Menex. 20. "This speech,
differing from the other speeches in Sallust both in words and thoughts, conveys a clear notion
of that fierce and objurgatory eloquence which was natural to the rude manners and bold character
of Marius. It is a speech which can not be called polished and modulated, but must rather be
termed rough and ungraceful. The phraseology is of an antique cast, and some of the wordscoarse.----But
it is animated and fervid, rushing on like a torrent; and by language of such a character and
structure, the nature and manners of Marius are excellently represented." Gerlach.

[254] LXXXVI. Not after the ancient method, or from the classes--Non more majorum, neque ex
classibus. By the regulation of Servius Tullius, who divided the Roman people into six classes,
the highest class consisting of the wealthiest, and the others decreasing downward in regular
gradation, none of the sixth class, who were not considered as having any fortune, but were
capite censi, "rated by the head," were allowed to enlist in the army. The enlistment of the
lower order, commenced, it is said, by Marius, tended to debase the army, and to render it
a fitter tool for the purposes of unprincipled commanders. See Aul. Gell., xvi. 10.

[255] Desire to pay court--Per ambitionem.

[256] LXXXVII. Having filled up his legions, etc. Their numbers had been thinned in actions
with the enemy, and Metellus perhaps took home some part of the army which did not return to it.

[257] Their country and parents, etc--Patriam parentesque, etc. Sallust means to say that the
soldiers would see such to be the general effect and result of vigorous warfare; not that they
had any country or parents to protect in Numidia. But the observation has very much of the
rhetorician in it.

[258] LXXXVIII. From our allies--Ex sociis nostris. The people of the province.

[259] Obliged the king himself--to take flight without his arms Ipsumque regem--armis exuerat.
He attacked Jugurtha so suddenly and vigorously that he was compelled to flee, leaving his
arms behind him.

[260]: LXXXIX. The Libyan Hercules--Hercules Libys. "He is one of the forty and more whom Varro
mentions, and who, it is probable, were leaders of trading expeditions or colonies. See supra,
c. 18. A Libyan Hercules is mentioned by Solinus xxvii." Bernouf.

[261] Marius conceived a strong desire--Marium maxima cupido invaserat. "A strong desire had
seized Marius."

[262] Wild beasts' flesh--Ferina carne. Almost all our translators have rendered this "venison."
But the Africans lived on the flesh of whatever beasts they took in the chase.

[263] XC. The consul, etc.--Here is a long and awkward parenthesis. I have adhered to the construction
of the original. The "yet," tamen, that follows the parenthesis, refers to the matter included
in it.

[264] He consigned to the care, etc.--Equitibus auxiliariis agendum attribuit. "He gave to
be driven by the auxiliary cavalry."

[265] The town of Lares--Oppidum Laris. Cortius seems to have been right in pronouncing Laris
to be an accusative plural. Gerlach observes that Lares occurs in the Itinerary of Antonius
and in St. Augustine, Adv. Donatist., vi. 28.

[266] XCI. After marching the whole night.--He seems to have marched in the night for the sake
of coolness.

[267] XCII. All his undertakings, etc.--Omnia non bene consulta in virtutem trahebantur. "All
that he did rashly was attributed to his consciousness of extraordinary power." If they could
not praise his prudence, they praised his resolution and energy.

[268] Difficult of execution--Difficilem. There seemed to be as many impediments to success
as in the affair at Capsa, though the undertaking was not of so perilous a nature.

[269] In the midst of a plain--Inter caeteram planitiem. By caeteram he signifies that the
rest of the ground, except the part on which the fort stood, was plain and level.

[270] Directed his utmost efforts to take--Summa vi capere intendit. It is to be observed that
summa vi refers to intendit, not to capere. Summa ope animum intendit ut caperet.

[271] Among the vineae--Inter vineas. "Inter, for which Mueller, from a conjecture of Glareanus,
substituted intra is supported by all the manuscripts, and ought not to be altered, although
intra would have been more exact, as the signification of inter is of greater extent, and includes
that of intra. Inter is used when a thing is inclosed on each side; intra, when it is inclosed
on all sides. If the soldiers, therefore, are considered as surrounded with the vineae, they
should be described as intra vineas; but as there is no reason why they may not also be contemplated
as being inclosed only laterally by the vineae, the phrase inter vineas may surely in that
case be applied to them. Gronovius and Drakenborch ad Liv., i. 10, have observed how often
these propositions are interchanged when referred to time." Kritzius. On vineae, see c. 76.

[272] XCIII. A certain Ligurian--in the auxiliary cohorts--The Ligurians were not numbered
among the Italians or socii in the Roman army, but attached to it only as auxiliaries.

[273] A desire--of seeing what he had never seen--More humani ingenii, cupido ignara visundi
invadit. This is the reading of Cortius, to which Muller and Allen adhere. Gerlach inserted
in his text, More humani ingeni, cupidio difficilia faciundi animum vortit; which Kritzius,
Orelli, and Dietsch, have adopted, and which Cortius acknowledged to be the reading of the
generality of the manuscripts, except that they vary as to the last two words, some having
animad vortit. The sense of this reading will be, "the desire of doing something difficult,
which is natural to the human mind, drew off his thoughts from gathering snails, and led him
to contemplate something of a more arduous character." But the reading of Cortius gives so
much better a sense to the passage, that I have thought proper to follow it. Burnouf, with
Havercamp and the editions antecedent to Cortius, reads more humanae cupidinis ignara visundi
animum vortit, of which the first five words are taken from a quotation of Aulus Gellius, ix.
12, who, however, may have transcribed them from some other part of Sallust's works, now lost.

[274] Horizontally--Prona. This word here signifies forward, not downward, as Anthon and others
interpret, for trees growing out of a rock or bank will not take a descending direction.

[275] As nature directs all vegetables--Quo cuncta gignentium natura fert. It is to be observed
that the construction is natura fert cuncta gignentium, for cuncta gignentia. On gignentia,
i.e. vegetable, or whatever produces any thing, see c. 79, and Cat., c. 53.

[276] Four centurions for a guard--Praesidio qui forent, quatuor centuriones. It is a question
among the commentators whether the centurions were attended by their centuries or not; Cortius
thinks that they were not, as ten men were sufficient to cause an alarm in the fortress, which
was all that Marius desired. But that Cortius is in the wrong, and that there were common soldiers
with the centurions, appears from the following considerations: 1. Marius would hardly have
sent, or Sallust have spoken of, four men as a guard to six. 2. Why should centurions only
have been selected, and not common soldiers as well as their officers? 3. An expression in
the following chapter, laqueis--quibus allevati milites facilius escenderent, seems to prove
that there were others present besides the centurions and the trumpeters. The word milites
is indeed wanting in the text of Cortius, but appears to have been omitted by him merely to
favor his own notion as to the absence of soldiers, for he left it out, as Kritzius says, summa
libidine, ne uno quidem codice assentiente, "purely of his own will, and without the authority
of a single manuscript." Taking a fair view of the passage, we seem necessarily led to believe
that the centurions were attended by a portion, if not the whole, of their companies. See the
following note.

[277] XCIV. Those who commanded the centuries--Illi qui centuriis praeerant. This is the reading
of several manuscripts, and of almost all the editions before that of Kritzius, and may be
tolerated if we suppose that the centurions were attended by their men, and that Sallust, in
speaking of the change of dress, meant to include the men, although he specifies only the officers.
Yet it is difficult to conceive why Sallust should have used such a periphrase for centuriones.
Seven of the manuscripts, however, have qui adsensuri erant, which Kritzius and Dietsch have
adopted. Two have qui ex centuriis praeerant. Allen, not unhappily, conjectures, qui praesidio
erant. Cortius suspected the phrase, qui centuriis praeerant, and thought it a transformation
of the words qui adscensuris praeerat, which somebody had written in the margin as an explanation
of the following word duce, and which were afterward altered and thrust into the text.

[278] Progress--might be less impeded--Nisus--facilius foret. The adverb for the adjective.
So in the speech of Adherbal, c. 14, ut tutius essem.

[279] Unsafe--Dubia nisu. "Not to be depended upon for support." Nisu is the old dative for nisui.

[280] Causing a testudo to be formed--Testudine acta. The soldiers placed their shields over
their heads, and joined them close together, forming a defense like the shell of a tortoise.

[281] XCV. For I shall in no other place allude to his affairs--Neque enim allo loco de Sullae
rebus dicturi sumus. "These words show that Sallust, at this time, had not thought of writing
Histories, but that he turned his attention to that pursuit after he had finished the Jugurthine
war. For that he spoke of Sylla in his large history is apparent from several extant fragments
of it, and from Plutarch, who quotes Sallust, Vit. Syll., c. 3." Kritzius.

[282] Lucius Sisenna--He wrote a history of the civil wars between Sylla and Marius, Vell.
Paterc. ii. 9. Cicero alludes to his style as being jejune and puerile, Brut., c. 64, De Legg.
i. 2. About a undred and fifty fragments of his history remain.

[283] Except that he might have acted more for his honor with regard to his wife--Nisi quod
de uxore potuit honestius consuli. As these words are vague and indeterminate, it is not agreed
among the critics and translators to what part of Sylla's life Sallust refers. I suppose, with
Rupertus, Aldus, Manutius, Crispinus, and De Brosses, that the allusion is to his connection
with Valeria, of which the history is given by Plutarch in his life of Sylla, which the English
reader may take in Langhorne's translation: "A few months after Metella's death, he presented
the people with a show of gladiators; and as, at that time, men and women had no separate places,
but sat promiscuously in the theater, a woman of great beauty, and of one of the best families,
happened to sit near Sylla. She was the daughter of Messala, and sister to the orator Hortensius;
her name was Valeria; and she had lately been divorced from her husband. This woman, coming
behind Sylla, touched him, and took off a little of the nap of his robe, and then returned
to her place. Sylla looked at her, quite amazed at her familiarity, when she said, 'Wonder
not, my lord, at what I have done; I had only a mind to share a little in your good fortune.'
Sylla was far from being displeased; on the contrary, it appeared that he was flattered very
agreeably, for he sent to ask her name, and to inquire into her family and character. Then
followed an interchange of amorous regards and smiles, which ended in a contract and marriage.
The lady, perhaps, was not to blame. But Sylla, though he got a woman of reputation, and great
accomplishments, yet came into the match upon wrong principles. Like a youth, he was caught
with soft looks and languishing airs, things that are wont to excite the lowest of the passions."
Others have thought that Sallust refers to Sylla's conduct on the death of his wife Metella,
above mentioned, to whom, as she happened to fall sick when he was giving an entertainment
to the people, and as the priest forbade him to have his house defiled with death on the occasion,
he unfeelingly sent a bill of divorce, ordering her to be carried out of the house while the
breath was in her. Cortius, Kritz, and Langius. think that the allusion is to Sylla'a general
faithlessness to his wives, for he had several; as if Sallust had used the singular for the
plural, uxore for uxoribus, or reuxoria; but if Sallust meant to allude to more than one wife,
why should he have restricted himself to the singular?

[284] Lived on the easiest terms with his friends--Facilis amicitia The critics are in doubt
about the sense of this phrase. I have given that which Dietsch prefers, who says that a man
facilis amicitia is "one who easily grants his friends all that they desire, exacts little
from them, and is no severe censor of their morals." Cortius explains it facilis ad amicitiam,
and Facciolati, in his Lexicon, facile sibi amicos parans, but these interpretations, as Kritzius
observes, are hardly suitable to the ablative case.

[285] Most fortunate--Felicissumo. Alluding, perhaps, to the title of Felix, which he assumed
after his great victory over Marius.

[286] His desert--Industriam. That is, the efforts which he made to attain distinction.

[287] XCVII. When scarcely a tenth part of the day remained--Vix decima parte die reliqua.
A remarkably exact specification of the time.

[288] From various quarters--Ex multis. From his scouts, who came in from all sides.

[289] The Roman veterans, who were necessarily well experienced in war,--The reading of Cortius
is, Romani veteres, novique, et ob ea scientes belli; which he explains by supposing that the
new recruits were joined with the veterans, and that both united were consequently well skilled
in war, citing, in support of his supposition, a passage in c. 87: Sic brevi spatio novi veteresqua
coaluere, et virtus omnium aequalis facta. And Ascensius had previously given a similar explanation,
quod etiam veterani adessent. But many later critics have not been induced to believe that
Cortius's reading will bear any such interpretation; and accordingly Kritzius, Dietsch, and
Orelli, have ejected novique; as indeed Ciaeconius and Ursinus had long before recommended.
Muller, Burnouf, and Allen, retain it, adopting Cortius's interpretation. Gerlach also retains
it, but not without hesitation. But it is very remarkable that it occurs in all the manuscripts
but one, which has Romani veteres boni scientes erant ut quos locus, etc.

[290] Neque minus hostibus conturbatis. If the enemy had not been in as much disorder as himself,
Marius would hardly have been able to effect his retreat.

[291] Pleno gradu.--"By the militaris gradus twenty miles were completed in five hours of a
summer day; by the plenusus, which is quicker, twenty-four miles were traversed in the same
time." Veget. i.9.

[292] XCIX. When the watches were changed--Per vigilias: i. e. at the end of each watch, when
the guards were relieved. "The nights, by the aid of a clepsydra, were divided into four watches,
the termination of each being marked by the blast of a trumpet or horn. See Viget. in. 8: A
tubicine omnes vigiliae committuntur; et finitis horis a cornicine revocantur." Kritzius He
also refers to Liv. vii. 35; Lucan. viii. 24; Tacit. Hist. v. 22.

[293] Auxiliary cohorts--Cohortium. I have added the word auxiliary. That they were the cohorts
of the auxiliaries or allies is apparent, as the word legionum follows. Kritzius indeed thinks
otherwise, supposing that the cohorts had particular trumpeters, distinct from those of the
whole legion. But for this notion there seems to be no sufficient ground. Sallust speaks of
the cohortes sociorum, c. 58, and cohortes Ligurum, c. 100.

[294] Sally forth from the camp--Portis erumpere. Sallust uses the common phrase for issuing
from the camp. It can hardly be supposed, that the Romans had formed a regular camp with gates
during the short time that they had been upon the hill, especially as they had fled to it in
great disorder.

[295] Stupor--Vecordia. A feeling that deprived them of all sense.

[296] C. in form of a square--Quadrato agmine. "A hollow square, with the baggage in the center;
see Serv. ad Verg. Aen. xii.121. ... Such an agmen Sallust, in c. 46, calls munitum, as it
was prepared to defend itself against the enemy, from whatever quarter they might approach."
Kritzius.

[297] Might be endured by them with cheerfulness Volentibus esset. A Greek phrase, Boulomenois
eiae.

[298] Dread of shame--Pudore. Inducing each to have a regard to his character.

[299] CI. Trusting that one of them, assuredly, etc.--Ratua es omnibus aque aliquos ab tergo
hostibus ventures. By aequo Sallust signifies that each of the four bodies would have an equal
chance of coming on the rear of the Romans.

[300] In person and with his officers--Ipse aliique. "The alii, are the praefecti equitum,
officers of the cavalry." Kritzius.

[301] Wheeled secretly about, with a few of his followers, to the infantry--Clam--ad pedites
convertit. What infantry are meant, the commentators can not agree, nor is there any thing
in the narrative on which a satisfactory decision can be founded. As the arrival of Bocchus
is mentioned immediately before, Cortius supposes that the infantry of Bocchus are signified;
and it may be so; but to whatever party the words wore addressed, they were intended to be
heard by the Romans, or for what purpose were they spoken in Latin? Jugurtha may have spoken
the words in both languages, and this, from what follows, would appear to have been the case,
for both sides understood him. Quod ubi milites (evidently the Roman soldiers) accepere--simul
barbari animos tollere, etc. The clam signifies that Jugurtha turned about, or wheeled off,
so as to escape the notice of Marius, with whom he had been contending.

[302] By vigorously cutting down our infantry--Satis impigre occiso pedite nostro. "A ces mots
il leur montra son epee teinte du sang des notres, dont il venait, en effet, de faire une assez
cruelle boucherie." De Brosses. Of the other French translators, Beauzee and Le Brun render
the passage in a similar way; Dotteville and Durean Delamalle, as well as all our English translators,
take pedite as signifying only one soldier. Sir Henry Steuart even specifies that it was "a
legionary soldier." The commentators, I should suppose, have all regarded the word as having
a plural signification; none of them, except Burnouf, who expresses a needless doubt, say any
thing on the point.

[303] The spectacle on the open plains was then frightful--Tum spectaculum horribile campis
patentibus, etc. The idea of this passage was probably taken, as Ciacconius intimates, from
a description in Xenophon, Agesil. ii. 12, 14, part of which is quoted by Longinus, Sect. 19,
as an example of the effect produced by the omission of conjunctions: [Greek: Kai symbalontes
tas aspidas eothounto, emachonto, apekteinon, apethnaeskon Epei ge maen elaexen hae machae,
paraen dae theasasthai entha synepeson allaelois, taen men gaen aimati pe, ormenaen, nekrous
de peimenous philious kai polemious met allaelon, aspidas de diatethrummenas, dorata syntethrausmena,
egchoipidia gumna kouleon ta men chamai, ta d'en somasi, ta d'eti meta cheiras.] "Closing their
shields together, they pushed, they fought, ... But when the battle was over, you might have
seen, where they had fought, the ground clotted with blood, the corpses of friends and enemies
mingled together, and pierced shields, broken lances, and swords without their sheaths, strewed
on the ground, sticking in the dead bodies, or still remaining in the hands that had wielded
them when alive." Tacitus, Agric. c. 37. has copied this description of Sallust, as all the
commentators have remarked: Tum vero patentibus locis grande et atrox spectaculum. Sequi, vulnerare,
capere, atque eosdem, oblatis aliis, trucidare.... Passim, arma et corpora, et laceri artus,
et cruenta humus. "The sight on the open field was then striking and horrible; they pursued,
they inflicted wounds, they took ... Every where were seen arms and corpses, mangled limbs,
and the ground stained with blood."

[304] Besides, the Roman people, even from the very infancy--The reading of this passage, before
the edition of Cortius, was this: Ad hoc, populo Romano jam a principio inopi melius visum
amicos, quam servos, quaerere. Gruter proposed to read Ad hoc populo Romano inopi melius est
visum, etc., whence Cortius made Ad hoc, populo Romano jam inopi visum, etc. But the Bipont
editors, observing that inopi was not quite consistent with quaerere servos, altered the passage
to Ad hoc, populo Romano jam a principio reipublicae melius visum, etc., which seems to be
the best emendation that has been proposed, and which I have accordingly followed. Kritzius
and Dietsch adopt it, except that they omit reipublicae, and put nothing in the place of inopi.
Gerlach retains inopi, on the principle of "quo insolentius, eo verius," and it may, after
all, be genuine. Cortius omitted melius on no authority but his own.

[305] Out of which he had forcibly driven Jugurtha--Unde ut Jugurtham expulerit [expulerat]
There is here some obscurity. The manuscripts vary between expulerit and expulerat. Cortius,
and Gerlaen in his second edition, adopt expulerat, which they of necessity refer to Marius;
but to make Bocchus speak thus, is, as Kritzius says, to make him speak very foolishly and
arrogantly. Kritzius himself, accordingly, adopts expulerit, and supposes that Bocchus invents
a falsehood, in the belief that the Romans wouldhave no means of detecting it. But Bocchus
may have spoken truth, referring, as Mueller suggests, to some previous transactions between
him and Jugurtha, to which Sallust does not elsewhere allude.

[306] In ill plight--Sine decore.

[307] For interested bounty--Largitio. "The word signifies liberal treatment of others with
a view to our own interest; without any real goodwill." Mueller. "He intends a severe stricture
on his own age, and the manners of the Romans." Dietsch.

[308] About forty days. Waiting, apparently, for the return of Marius.

[309] CIV. Having failed in the object, etc.--Infecto, quo intenderat, negotio. Though this
is the reading of most of the manuscripts, Kritzius, Mueller, and Dietach, read confecto, as
if Marius could not have failed in his attempt.

[310] Are always verging to opposite extremes.--Semper in adversa mutant. Rose renders this
"are always changing, and constantly for the worse;" and most other translators have given
something similar. But this is absurd; for every one sees that all changes in human affairs
are not for the worse. Adversa is evidently to be taken in the sense which I have given.

[311] CV. At his discretion--Arbitratu. Kritzius observes that this word comprehends the notion
of plenary powers to treat and decide: der mit unbeschraenkter Vollmacht unterhandeln koennte.

[312] Presenting--Intendere. The critics are in doubt to what to refer this word; some have
thought of understanding animum; Cortius, Wasse, and Mueller, think it is meant only of the
bows of the archers; Kritzius, Burnouf, and Allen, refer it, apparently with better judgment,
to the arma and tela in general.

[313] CVI. To dispatch their supper--Coenatos esse. "The perfect is not without its force;
it signifies that Sylla wished his orders to be performed with the greatest expedition." Kritzius.
He orders them to have done supper.

[314] CVII. And blind parts of his body--Caecum corpus. Imitated from Xenephon, Cyrop. iii.
3, 45: [Greek: Moron gar to kratein boulomenous, ta tuphla, tou somatos, kai aopla, tauta enantia
tattein tois polemiois pheugontas.] "It is folly for those that desire to conquer to turn the
blind, unarmed, and handless parts of the body, to the enemy in flight."

[315] At being an instrument of his father's hostility--Quoniam hostilia faceret. "Since he
wished to deceive the Romans by pretended friendship." Mueller.

[316] CVIII. Of the family of Masinissa--Ex gente Masinissae. Massugrada was the son of Masinissa
by a concubine.

[317] Faithful--Fidum. After this word, in the editions of Cortius, Kritzius, Gerlach, Allen,
and Dietsch, follows Romanis or esse Romanis. These critics defend Romanis on the plea that
a dative is necessary after fidum, and that it was of importance, as Castilioneus observes
that Dabar should be well disposed toward the Romans, and not have been corrupted, like many
other courtiers of Bocchus, by the bribes of Jugurtha. Glarcanus, Badius Ascensius, the Bipont
editors, and Burnouf, with, most of the translators, omit Romanis, and I have thought proper
to imitate their example.

[318] Place, day, and hour--Diem, locum, tempus. Not only the day, but the time of the day.

[319] That he kept all points, which he had settled with him before, inviolate--Consulta sese
omnia cum illo integra habere. Kritzius justly observes that most editors, in interpreting
this passage, have erroneously given to consulta the sense of consulenda; and that the sense
is, "that all that he had arranged with Sylla before, remained unaltered, and that he was not
drawn from his resolutions by the influence of Jugurtha."

[320] And that he was not to fear the presence of Jugurtha's embassador, as any restraint,
etc.--Neu Jugurthae legatum pertimesceret, quo res communis licentius gereretur. There is some
difficulty in this passage. Burnouf makes the nearest approach to a satisfactory explanation
of it. "Sylla," says he, "was not to fear the envoy of Jugurtha, quo, on which account (equivalent
to eoque, and on that account, i. e. on account of his freedom from apprehension) their common
interests would be more freely arranged." Yet it appears from what follows that fear of Jugurtha's
envoy could not be dismissed, and that there could be no freedom of discussion in his presence,
as Sylla was to say but little before him, and to speak more at large at a private meeting.
These considerations have induced Kritzius to suppose that the word remoto, or something similar,
has been lost after quo. The Bipont editors inserted cautum esse before quo, which is without
authority, and does not at all assist the sense.

[321] African duplicity--Punica fide. "Punica fides was a well-known proverbial expression
for treachery and deceit. The origin of it is perhaps attributable not so much to fact, as
to the implacable hatred of the Romans toward the Carthaginians." Burnouf.

[322] CIX. What answer should be returned by Bocchus--That is, in the presence of Aspar.

[323] Both then retired to their respective camps--Deinde ambo in sua castra digressi. Both,
i. e. Bocchus and Sylla, not Aspar and Sylla, as Cortius imagines.

