When children have thus by gentle degrees, and by short and clear conversations, been initiated
in general grammar, and familiarized to its technical terms, the first page of tremendous Lilly
will lose much of its horror. It has been taken for granted, that at the age of which we have
been speaking, a child can read English tolerably well, and that he has been used to employ
a dictionary. He may now proceed to translate from some easy books a few short sentences: the
first word will probably be an adverb or conjunction; either of them may readily be found in
the Latin dictionary, and the young scholar will exult in having translated one word of Latin;
but the next word, a substantive or verb, perhaps will elude his search. Now the grammar may
be produced, and something of the various terminations of a noun may be explained. If musam
be searched for in the dictionary, it cannot be found, but musa catches the eye, and, with
the assistance of the grammar, it may be shown, that the meaning of words may be discovered
by the united helps of the dictionary and grammar. After some days patient continuation of
this exercise, the use of the grammar, and of its uncouth collection of words and syllables,
will be apparent to the pupil: he will perceive that the grammar is a sort of appendix to the
dictionary. The grammatical formulæ may then, by gentle degrees, be committed to memory, and
when once got by heart, should be assiduously preserved in the recollection. After the preparation
which we have recommended, the singular number of a declension will be learnt in a few minutes
by a child of ordinary capacity, and after two or three days repetition, the plural number
may be added. The whole of the first declension should be well fixed in the memory before a
second is attempted. During this process, a few words at every lesson may be translated from
Latin to English, and such nouns as are of the first declension, may be compared with musa,
and may be declined according to the same form. Tedious as this method may appear, it will
in the end be found expeditious. Omitting some of the theoretic or didactic part of the grammar,
which should only be read, and which may be explained with care and patience, the whole of
the declensions, pronouns, conjugations, the list of prepositions and conjunctions, interjections,
some adverbs, the concords, and common rules of syntax, may be comprised with sufficient repetitions
in about two or three hundred lessons of ten minutes each; that is to say, ten minutes application
of the scholar in the presence of the teacher. A young boy should never be set to learn a lesson
by heart when alone. Forty hours! Is this tedious? If you are afraid of losing time, begin
a few months earlier; but begin when you will, forty hours is surely no great waste of time:
the whole, or even half of this short time, is not spent in the labour of getting jargon by
rote; each day some slight advance is made in the knowledge of words, and in the knowledge
of their combinations. What we insist upon is, that nothing should be done to disgust the pupil:
steady perseverance, with uniform gentleness, will induce habit, and nothing should ever interrupt
the regular return of the daily lesson. If absence, business, illness, or any other cause,
prevent the attendance of the teacher, a substitute must be appointed; the idea of relaxation
on Sunday, or a holyday, should never be permitted. In most public seminaries above one third,
in some nearly one half, of the year is permitted to idleness: it is the comparison between
severe labour and dissipation, that renders learning hateful.

Johnson is made to say by one of his female biographers,[3] that no child loves the person
who teaches him Latin; yet the author of this chapter would not take all the doctor's fame,
and all the lady's wit and riches, in exchange for the hourly, unfeigned, unremitting friendship,
which he enjoys with a son who had no other master than his father. So far from being laborious
or troublesome, he has found it an agreeable employment to instruct his children in grammar
and the learned languages. In the midst of a variety of other occupations, half an hour every
morning for many years, during the time of dressing, has been allotted to the instruction of
boys of different ages in languages, and no other time has been spent in this employment. Were
it asserted that these boys made a reasonable progress, the expression would convey no distinct
meaning to the reader; we shall, therefore, mention an experiment tried this morning, November
8th, 1796, to ascertain the progress of one of these pupils. Without previous study, he translated
twenty lines of the story of Ceyx and Alcyone, from Ovid, consulting the dictionary only twice:
he was then desired to translate the passage which he had read into English verse; and in two
or three hours he produced the following version. Much of the time was spent in copying the
lines fairly, as this opportunity was taken of exciting his attention to writing and spelling,
to associate the habit of application with the pleasure of voluntary exertion. The curious
may, if they think it worth their while, see the various readings and corrections of the translation
(V. Chapter on Conversation, and Anecdotes of Children) which were carefully preserved, not
as "Curiosities of Literature," but for the sake of truth, and with a desire to show, that
the pupil had the patience to correct. A genius may hit off a few tolerable lines; but if a
child is willing and able to criticise and correct what he writes, he shows that he selects
his expressions from choice, and not from chance or imitation; and he gives to a judicious
tutor the certain promise of future improvement.

    "Far in a vale there lies a cave forlorn,
    Which Phoebus never enters eve or morn,
    The misty clouds inhale the pitchy ground,
    And twilight lingers all the vale around.
    No watchful cocks Aurora's beams invite;
    No dogs nor geese, the guardians of the night:
    No flocks nor herds disturb the silent plains;
    Within the sacred walls mute quiet reigns,
    And murmuring Lethe soothing sleep invites;
    In dreams again the flying past delights:
    From milky flowers that near the cavern grow,
    Night scatters the collected sleep below."

S----, the boy who made this translation, was just ten years old; he had made but three previous
attempts in versification; his reading in poetry had been some of Gay's fables, parts of the
Minstrel, three odes of Gray, the Elegy in a Country Church-yard, the Tears of Old May-day,
and parts of the second volume of Dr. Darwin's Botannic Garden; Dryden's translations of the
fable of Ceyx and Alcyone he had never seen; the book had always been locked up. Phædrus and
Ovid's Metamorphoses were the whole of his Latin erudition. These circumstances are mentioned
thus minutely, to afford the inquisitive teacher materials for an accurate estimate of the
progress made by our method of instruction. Perhaps most boys of S----'s age, in our great
public seminaries, would, upon a similar trial, be found superior. Competition in the art of
translation is not our object; our object is to show, that half an hour a day, steadily appropriated
to grammar and Latin, would be sufficient to secure a boy of this age, from any danger of ignorance
in classical learning; and that the ease and shortness of his labour will prevent that disgust,
which is too often induced by forced and incessant application. We may add, that some attention
to the manner in which the pupils repeat their Latin lessons, has been found advantageous:
as they were never put in bodily fear, by the impatience of a pedagogue, they had leisure and
inclination to read and recite, without awkward gestures and discordant tones. The whining
tones and convulsive gestures often contracted by boys during the agony of repeating their
long lessons, are not likely to be advantageous to the rising generation of orators. Practice,
and the strong motive of emulation, may, in a public seminary, conquer these bad habits. After
the pupil has learned to speak ill, he may be taught to speak well; but the chances are against
him: and why should we have the trouble of breaking bad habits? It is much easier to prevent
them. In private education, as the preceptor has less chance of curing his pupil of the habit
of speaking ill, he should be peculiarly attentive to give the child constant habits of speaking
and reading well. It is astonishing, that parents, who are extremely intent upon the education
of their children, should overlook some of the essential means of success. A young man with
his head full of Latin and law, will make but a poor figure at the bar, or in parliament, if
he cannot enunciate distinctly, and if he cannot speak good English extempore, or produce his
learning and arguments with grace and propriety. It is in vain to expect that a boy should
speak well in public, who cannot, in common conversation, utter three connected sentences without
a false concord or a provincial idiom; he may be taught with much care and cost to speak tripod
sentences;[4] but bring the young orator to the test, bring him to actual business, rouse any
of his passions, throw him off his guard, and then listen to his language; he will forget instantly
his reading master, and all his rules of pronunciation and rhetoric, and he will speak the
language to which he has been most accustomed. No master will then be near him to regulate
the pitch and tones of his voice. We cannot believe that even Caius Gracchus could, when he
was warmed by passion, have listened to Licinius's pitch-pipe.[5] Example, and constant attention
to their manner of speaking in common conversation, we apprehend to be the most certain methods
of preparing young men for public speakers. Much of the time that is spent in teaching boys
to walk upon stilts, might be more advantageously employed in teaching them to walk well without
them. It is all very well whilst the pupil is under the protection of his preceptor. The actor
on the stage is admired whilst he is elevated by the cothurnus; but young men are not to exhibit
their oratorical talents always with the advantages of stage effect and decorations. We should
imagine, that much of the diffidence felt by young men of abilities, when they first rise to
speak in public, may be attributed to their immediate perception of the difference between
scholastic exhibitions and the real business of life; they feel that they have learned to speak
two languages, which must not, on any account, be mixed together; the one, the vulgar language
of common conversation; the other, the refined language of oratorical composition: the first
they are most inclined to use when they are agitated; and they are agitated when they rise
to speak before numbers: consequently there is an immediate struggle between custom and institution.
Now, a young man, who in common conversation in his own family has never been accustomed to
hear or to speak vulgar or ungrammatical language, cannot possibly apprehend that he shall
suddenly utter ridiculous expressions; he knows, that, if he speaks at all, he shall at least
speak good English; and he is not afraid, that, if he is pursued, he shall be obliged to throw
away his cumbrous stilts. The practice of speaking in public, we are sensible, is a great advantage;
but the habit of speaking accurately in private, is of still greater consequence: this habit
depends upon the early and persevering care of the parent and the preceptor. There is no reason
why children should not be made at the same time good scholars and good speakers; nor is there
any reason why boys, whilst they learn to write Latin, should be suffered to forget how to
write English.

It would be a great advantage to the young classical scholar, if his Latin and English literature
were mixed; the taste for ancient authors and for modern literature, ought to be cultivated
at the same time; and the beauties of composition, characteristic of different languages, should
be familiarized to the student. Classical knowledge and taste afford such continual and innocent
sources of amusement, that we should be extremely sorry that any of our pupils should not enjoy
them in their fullest extent; but we do not include a talent for Latin composition amongst
the necessary accomplishments of a gentleman. There are situations in life, where facility
and elegance in writing Latin may be useful, but such situations are not common; when a young
man is intended for them, he may be trained with more particular assiduity to this art; perhaps
for this purpose the true Busbyean method is the best. The great Latin and Greek scholars of
the age, have no reason to be displeased by the assertion, that classical proficiency equal
to their own, is not a necessary accomplishment in a gentleman; if their learning become more
rare, it may thence become more valuable. We see no reason why there should not be Latinists
as well as special pleaders.

We have not laid down any course of classical study; those who consider the order in which
certain authors are read, as of material consequence in the education of scholars, may consult
Milton, Mrs. Macaulay, "Milne's Well-bred Scholar," &c. where they will find precise directions.

We have lately seen a collection of exercises for boys,[6] which in some measure supplies the
defect of Mr. Garretson's curious performance. We wish most earnestly that dictionaries were
improved. The author of "Stemmata Latinitatis," has conferred an essential service on the public;
but still there is wanting a dictionary for schools, in which elegant and proper English might
be substituted for the barbarous translations now in use. Such a dictionary could not be compiled,
we should think, without an attention to the course of books that are most commonly used in
schools. The first meanings given in the dictionary, should suit the first authors that a boy
reads; this may probably be a remote or metaphoric meaning: then the radical word should be
mentioned, and it would not cost a master any great trouble to trace the genealogy of words
to the parent stock.

Cordery is a collection of such mean sentences, and uninstructive dialogue, as to be totally
unfit for boys. Commenius's "Visible World displayed," is far superior, and might, with proper
alterations and better prints, become a valuable English school-book. Both these books were
intended for countries where the Latin language was commonly spoken, and consequently they
are filled with the terms necessary for domestic life and conversation: for this very reason
they are not good introductions to the classics. Selections from Bailey's Phædrus, will be
proper for young beginners, upon account of the glossary. We prefer this mode of assisting
them with glossaries to the use of translations, because they do not induce indolent habits,
and yet they prevent the pupil from having unnecessary labour. Translations always give the
pupil more trouble in the end, than they save in the beginning. The glossary to Bailey's Phædrus,
which we have just mentioned, wants much to be modernized, and the language requires to be
improved. Mr. Valpy's "Select Sentences," would be much more useful if they had a glossary
annexed. As they are, they will, however, be useful after Phædrus. Ovid's Metamorphoses, with
all its monstrous faults, appears to be the best introduction to the Latin classics, and to
heathen mythology. Norris's Ovid may be safely put into the hands of children, as it is a selection
of the least exceptionable fables. To accustom boys to read poetry and prose nearly at the
same period, is advantageous. Cornelius Nepos, a crabbed book, but useful from its brevity,
and from its being a proper introduction to Grecian and Roman history, may be read nearly at
the same time with Ovid's Metamorphoses. After Ovid, the pupil may begin Virgil, postponing
some of the Eclogues, and all the Georgics.

We recommend that some English books should be put into the hands of boys whilst they are going
through Phædrus, Ovid, and Cornelius Nepos, which may suit with the ideas they acquire from
these Latin authors. Plutarch's Lives, for instance, will be useful and interesting. When we
mention Plutarch's Lives, we cannot help recollecting how many great people have acknowledged
the effect of this book in their early education. Charles the Twelfth, Rousseau, Madame Roland,
Gibbon, we immediately remember, and we are sure we have noticed many others. An abridgment
of Plutarch, by Mrs. Helme, which we have looked into, appears (the preface excepted) to be
well written; and we see another abridgment of Plutarch advertised, which we hope may prove
serviceable: good prints to a Plutarch for children, would be very desirable.

As an English introduction to mythology, we recommend the first volume of Lord Chesterfield's
Letters, as a most elegant view of heathen mythology. But if there be any danger that the first
volume should introduce the remainder of Lord Chesterfield's work to the inexperienced reader,
we should certainly forbear the experiment: it would be far better for a young man never to
be acquainted with a single heathen deity, than to purchase Lord Chesterfield's classical knowledge
at the hazard of contamination from his detestable system of morals. Without his Lordship's
assistance, Mrs. Monsigny's Mythology can properly initiate the young pupil of either sex into
the mysteries of ancient fables. The notes to Potter's Æschylus, are also well suited to our
purpose. In Dr. Darwin's "Botanic Garden," there are some beautiful poetic allusions to ancient
gems and ancient fables, which must fix themselves in the memory or in the imagination of the
pupil. The sooner they are read, the better; we have felt the advantage of putting them into
the hands of a boy of nine or ten years old. The ear should be formed to English as well as
to Latin poetry.

Classical poetry, without the knowledge of mythology, is unintelligible: if children study
the one, they must learn the other. Divested of the charms of poetry, and considered without
classical prepossession, mythology presents a system of crimes and absurdities, which no allegorical,
metaphysical, or literal interpreters of modern times, can perfectly reconcile to common sense,
or common morality; but our poets have naturalized ancient fables, so that mythology is become
essential even to modern literature. The associations of taste, though arbitrary, are not easily
changed in a nation whose literature has attained to a certain pitch of refinement, and whose
critical judgments must consequently have been for some generations traditional. There are
subjects of popular allusion, which poets and orators regard as common property; to dispossess
them of these, seems impracticable, after time has sanctioned the prescriptive right. But new
knowledge, and the cultivation of new sciences, present objects of poetic allusion which, skilfully
managed by men of inventive genius, will oppose to the habitual reverence for antiquity, the
charms of novelty united to the voice of philosophy.[7]

In education we must, however, consider the actual state of manners in that world in which
our pupils are to live, as well as our wishes or our hopes of its gradual improvement.[8] With
a little care, preceptors may manage so as to teach mythology without in the least injuring
their pupils. Children may be familiarized to the strange manners and strange personages of
ancient fable, and may consider them as a set of beings who are not to be judged by any rules
of morality, and who have nothing in common with ourselves. The caricatura of some of the passions,
perhaps, will not shock children who are not used to their natural appearance; they will pass
over the stories of love and jealousy, merely because they do not understand them. We should
rather leave them completely unintelligible, than attempt, like Mr. Riley, in his mythological
pocket dictionary for youth, to elucidate the whole at once, by assuring children that Saturn
was Adam, that Atlas is Moses, and his brother Hesperus, Aaron; that Vertumnus and Pomona were
Boaz and Ruth; that Mars corresponds with Joshua; that Apollo accords with David, since they
both played upon the harp; that Mercury can be no other than our Archangel Michael, since they
both have wings on their arms and feet; that, in short, to complete the concordance, Momus
is a striking likeness of Satan. The ancients, Mr. Riley allows, have so much disfigured these
personages, that it is hard to know many of the portraits again at first sight; however, he
is persuaded that "the young student will find a peculiar gratification in tracing the likeness,"
and he has kindly furnished us with a catalogue to explain the exhibition, and to guide us
through his new pantheon.

As books of reference, the convenient size, and compressed information, of pocket mythological
dictionaries, will recommend them to general use; but we object to the miserable prints with
which they are sometimes disgraced. The first impression made upon the imagination[9] of children,
is of the utmost consequence to their future taste. The beautiful engravings[10] in Spence's
Polymetis, will introduce the heathen deities in their most graceful and picturesque forms
to the fancy. The language of Spence, though classical, is not entirely free from pedantic
affectation, and his dialogues are, perhaps, too stiff and long winded for our young pupils.
But a parent or preceptor can easily select the useful explanations; and in turning over the
prints, they can easily associate some general notion of the history and attributes of the
gods and goddesses with their forms: the little eager spectators will, as they crowd round
the book, acquire imperceptibly all the necessary knowledge of mythology, imbibe the first
pleasing ideas of taste, and store their imagination with classic imagery. The same precautions
that are necessary to educate the eye, are also necessary to form the ear and understanding
of taste. The first mythological descriptions which our pupils read, should be the best in
their kind. Compare the following account of Europa in a pocket dictionary, with her figure
in a poetical gem--"Europa, the daughter of Agenor, king of the Phoenicians, and sister of
Cadmus. This princess was so beautiful, that, they say, one of the companions of Juno had robbed
her of a pot of paint to bestow on this lady, which rendered her so handsome. She was beloved
of Jupiter, who assumed the shape of a bull to run away with her, swam over the sea with her
on his back, and carried her into that part of the world now called Europe, from her name."
So far the dictionary; now for the poet.

    "Now lows a milk-white bull on Afric's strand,
    And crops with dancing head the daisy'd land;
    With rosy wreathes Europa's hand adorns
    His fringed forehead and his pearly horns;
    Light on his back the sportive damsel bounds,
    And, pleas'd, he moves along the flowery grounds;
    Bears with slow step his beauteous prize aloof,
    Dips in the lucid flood his ivory hoof;
    Then wets his velvet knees, and wading laves
    His silky sides, amid the dimpling waves.
    While her fond train with beckoning hands deplore,
    Strain their blue eyes, and shriek along the shore:
    Beneath her robe she draws her snowy feet,
    And, half reclining on her ermine seat,
    Round his rais'd neck her radiant arms she throws,
    And rests her fair cheek on his curled brows;
    Her yellow tresses wave on wanton gales,
    And high in air her azure mantle sails."[11]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Garretson's Exercises, the tenth edition.

[2] V. Chapter on Attention.

[3] Mrs. Piozzi.

[4] V. Blair.

[5] V. Plutarch.

[6] Valpy's Exercises.

[7] V. Darwin's Poetry.

[8] Since the above was written, we have seen a letter from Dr. Aikin to his son on the morality
and poetic merit of the fable of Circe, which convinces us that the observations that we have
hazarded are not premature.

[9] Chapter on Imagination.

[10] We speak of these engravings as beautiful, for the times in which they were done; modern
artists have arrived at higher perfection.

[11] Darwin. V. Botanic Garden.

CHAPTER XIV.

ON GEOGRAPHY AND CHRONOLOGY.

The usual manner of teaching Geography and Chronology, may, perhaps, be necessary in public
seminaries, where a number of boys are to learn the same thing at the same time; but what is
learned in this manner, is not permanent; something besides merely committing names and dates
to the memory, is requisite to make a useful impression upon the memory. For the truth of this
observation, an appeal is made to the reader. Let him recollect, whether the Geography and
Chronology which he learned whilst a boy, are what he now remembers--Whether he has not obtained
his present knowledge from other sources than the tasks of early years. When business, or conversation,
calls upon us to furnish facts accurate as to place and time, we retrace our former heterogeneous
acquirements, and select those circumstances which are connected with our present pursuit,
and thus we form, as it were, a nucleus round which other facts insensibly arrange themselves.
Perhaps no two men in the world, who are well versed in these studies, connect their knowledge
in the same manner. Relation to some particular country, some favourite history, some distinguished
person, forms the connection which guides our recollection, and which arranges our increasing
nomenclature. By attending to what passes in our own minds, we may learn an effectual method
of teaching without pain, and without any extraordinary burden to the memory, all that is useful
of these sciences. The details of history should be marked by a few chronological æras, and
by a few general ideas of geography. When these have been once completely associated in the
mind, there is little danger of their being ever disunited: the sight of any country will recall
its history, and even from representations in a map, or on the globe, when the mind is wakened
by any recent event, a long train of concomitant ideas will recur.

The use of technical helps to the memory, has been condemned by many, and certainly, when they
are employed as artifices to supply the place of real knowledge, they are contemptible; but
when they are used as indexes to facts that have been really collected in the mind; when they
serve to arrange the materials of knowledge in appropriate classes, and to give a sure and
rapid clue to recollection, they are of real advantage to the understanding. Indeed, they are
now so common, that pretenders cannot build the slightest reputation upon their foundation.
Were an orator to attempt a display of long chronological accuracy, he might be wofully confounded
by his opponent's applying at the first pause,

    [12]Elsluk he would have said!

Ample materials are furnished in Gray's Memoria Technica, from which a short and useful selection
may be made, according to the purposes which are in view. For children, the little ballad of
the Chapter of Kings, will not be found beneath the notice of mothers who attend to education.
If the technical terminations of Gray are inserted, they will never be forgotten, or may be
easily recalled.[13] We scarcely ever forget a ballad if the tune is popular.

For pupils at a more advanced age, it will be found advantageous to employ technical helps
of a more scientific construction. Priestley's Chart of Biography may, from time to time, be
hung in their view. Smaller charts, upon the same plan, might be provided with a few names
as land-marks; these may be filled up by the pupil with such names as he selects from history;
they may be bound in octavo, like maps, by the middle, so as to unfold both ways--Thirty-nine
inches by nine will be a convenient size. Prints, maps, and medals, which are part of the constant
furniture of a room, are seldom attended to by young people; but when circumstances excite
an interest upon any particular subject, then is the moment to produce the symbols which record
and communicate knowledge.

Mrs. Radcliffe, in her judicious and picturesque Tour through Germany, tells us, that in passing
through the apartments of a palace which the archduchess Maria Christiana, the sister of the
late unfortunate queen of France, had left a few hours before, she saw spread upon a table
a map of all the countries then included in the seat of the war. The positions of the several
corps of the allied armies were marked upon this chart with small pieces of various coloured
wax. Can it be doubted, that the strong interest which this princess must have taken in the
subject, would for ever impress upon her memory the geography of this part of the world?

How many people are there who have become geographers since the beginning of the present war.
Even the common newspapers disseminate this species of knowledge, and those who scarcely knew
the situation of Brest harbour a few years ago, have consulted the map with that eagerness
which approaching danger excites; they consequently will tenaciously remember all the geographical
knowledge they have thus acquired. The art of creating an interest in the study of geography,
depends upon the dexterity with which passing circumstances are seized by a preceptor in conversation.
What are maps or medals, statues or pictures, but technical helps to memory? If a mother possess
good prints, or casts of ancient gems, let them be shown to any persons of taste and knowledge
who visit her; their attention leads that of our pupils; imitation and sympathy are the parents
of taste, and taste reads in the monuments of art whatever history has recorded.

In the Adele and Theodore of Madame de Silleri, a number of adventitious helps are described
for teaching history and chronology. There can be no doubt that these are useful; and although
such an apparatus cannot be procured by private families, fortunately the print-shops of every
provincial town, and of the capital in particular, furnish even to the passenger a continual
succession of instruction. Might not prints, assorted for the purposes which we have mentioned,
be lent at circulating libraries?

To assist our pupils in geography, we prefer a globe to common maps. Might not a cheap, portable,
and convenient globe, be made of oiled silk, to be inflated by a common pair of bellows? Mathematical
exactness is not requisite for our purpose, and though we could not pretend to the precision
of our best globes, yet a balloon of this sort would compensate by its size and convenience
for its inaccuracy. It might be hung by a line from its north pole, to a hook screwed into
the horizontal architrave of a door or window; and another string from its south pole might
be fastened at a proper angle to the floor, to give the requisite elevation to the axis of
the globe. An idea of the different projections of the sphere, may be easily acquired from
this globe in its flaccid state, and any part of it might be consulted as a map, if it were
laid upon a convex board of a convenient size. Impressions from the plates which are used for
common globes, might be taken to try this idea without any great trouble or expense; but we
wish to employ a much larger scale, and to have them five or six feet diameter. The inside
of a globe of this sort might be easily illuminated, and this would add much to the novelty
and beauty of its appearance.

In the country, with the assistance of a common carpenter and plasterer, a large globe of lath
and plaster may be made for the instruction and entertainment of a numerous family of children.
Upon this they should leisurely delineate from time to time, by their given latitudes and longitudes,
such places as they become acquainted with in reading or conversation. The capital city, for
instance, of the different countries of Europe, the rivers, and the neighbouring towns, until
at last the outline might be added: for the sake of convenience, the lines, &c. may be first
delineated upon a piece of paper, from which they may be accurately transferred to their proper
places on the globe, by the intervention of black-leaded paper, or by pricking the lines through
the paper, and pouncing powdered blue through the holes upon the surface of the globe.

We enter into this detail because we are convinced, that every addition to the active manual
employment of children, is of consequence, not only to their improvement, but to their happiness.

Another invention has occurred to us for teaching geography and history together. Priestley's
Chart of History, though constructed with great ingenuity, does not invite the attention of
young people: there is an intricacy in the detail which is not obvious at first. To remedy
what appears to us a difficulty, we propose that eight and twenty, or perhaps thirty, octavo
maps of the globe should be engraved; upon these should be traced, in succession, the different
situations of the different countries of the world, as to power and extent, during each respective
century: different colours might denote the principal divisions of the world in each of these
maps; the same colour always denoting the same country, with the addition of one strong colour;
red, for instance, to distinguish that country which had at each period the principal dominion.
On the upper and lower margin in these maps, the names of illustrious persons might be engraven
in the manner of the biographical chart; and the reigning opinions of each century should also
be inserted. Thus history, chronology, and geography, would appear at once to the eye in their
proper order, and regular succession, divided into centuries and periods, which easily occur
to recollection.

We forbear to expatiate upon this subject, as it has not been actually submitted to experiment;
carefully avoiding in the whole of this work to recommend any mode of instruction which we
have not actually put in practice. For this reason, we have not spoken of the abbé Gaultier's
method of teaching geography, as we have only been able to obtain accounts of it from the public
papers, and from reviews; we are, however, disposed to think favourably beforehand, of any
mode which unites amusement with instruction. We cannot forbear recommending, in the strongest
manner, a few pages of Rollin in his "Thoughts upon Education,"[14] which we think contain
an excellent specimen of the manner in which a well informed preceptor might lead his pupils
a geographical, historical, botanical, and physiological tour upon the artificial globe.

We conclude this chapter of hints, by repeating what we have before asserted, that though technical
assistance may be of ready use to those who are really acquainted with that knowledge to which
it refers, it never can supply the place of accurate information.

The causes of the rise and fall of empires, the progress of human knowledge, and the great
discoveries of superior minds, are the real links which connect the chain of political knowledge.

FOOTNOTES:

[12] V. Gray's Memoria Technica, and the Critic.

[13] Instead of

William the conqueror long did reign, And William his son by an arrow was slain.

Read,

William the Consau long did reign, And Rufkoi his son by an arrow was slain.

And so on from Gray's Memoria Technica to the end of the chapter.

[14] Page 24.

CHAPTER XV.

ON ARITHMETIC.

The man who is ignorant that two and two make four, is stigmatized with the character of hopeless
stupidity; except, as Swift has remarked, in the arithmetic of the customs, where two and two
do not always make the same sum.

We must not judge of the understanding of a child by this test, for many children of quick
abilities do not immediately assent to this proposition when it is first laid before them.
"Two and two make four," says the tutor. "Well, child, why do you stare so?"

The child stares because the word make is in this sentence used in a sense which is quite new
to him; he knows what it is to make a bow, and to make a noise, but how this active verb is
applicable in the present case, where there is no agent to perform the action, he cannot clearly
comprehend. "Two and two are four," is more intelligible; but even this assertion, the child,
for want of a distinct notion of the sense in which the word are is used, does not understand.
"Two and two are called four," is, perhaps, the most accurate phrase a tutor can use; but even
these words will convey no meaning until they have been associated with the pupil's perceptions.
When he has once perceived the combination of the numbers with real objects, it will then be
easy to teach him that the words are called, are, and make, in the foregoing proposition, are
synonymous terms.

We have chosen the first simple instance we could recollect, to show how difficult the words
we generally use in teaching arithmetic, must be to our young pupils. It would be an unprofitable
task to enumerate all the puzzling technical terms which, in their earliest lessons, children
are obliged to hear, without being able to understand.

It is not from want of capacity that so many children are deficient in arithmetical skill;
and it is absurd to say, "such a child has no genius for arithmetic. Such a child cannot be
made to comprehend any thing about numbers." These assertions prove nothing, but that the persons
who make them, are ignorant of the art of teaching. A child's seeming stupidity in learning
arithmetic, may, perhaps, be a proof of intelligence and good sense. It is easy to make a boy,
who does not reason, repeat by rote any technical rules which a common writing-master, with
magisterial solemnity, may lay down for him; but a child who reasons, will not be thus easily
managed; he stops, frowns, hesitates, questions his master, is wretched and refractory, until
he can discover why he is to proceed in such and such a manner; he is not content with seeing
his preceptor make figures and lines upon a slate, and perform wondrous operations with the
self-complacent dexterity of a conjurer. A sensible boy is not satisfied with merely seeing
the total of a given sum, or the answer to a given question, come out right; he insists upon
knowing why it is right. He is not content to be led to the treasures of science blindfold;
he would tear the bandage from his eyes, that he might know the way to them again.

That many children, who have been thought to be slow in learning arithmetic, have, after their
escape from the hands of pedagogues, become remarkable for their quickness, is a fact sufficiently
proved by experience. We shall only mention one instance, which we happened to meet with whilst
we were writing this chapter. John Ludwig, a Saxon peasant, was dismissed from school when
he was a child, after four years ineffectual struggle to learn the common rules of arithmetic.
He had been, during this time, beaten and scolded in vain. He spent several subsequent years
in common country labour, but at length some accidental circumstances excited his ambition,
and he became expert in all the common rules, and mastered the rule of three and fractions,
by the help of an old school book, in the course of one year. He afterwards taught himself
geometry, and raised himself, by the force of his abilities and perseverance, from obscurity
to fame.

We should like to see the book which helped Mr. Ludwig to conquer his difficulties. Introductions
to Arithmetic are, often, calculated rather for adepts in science, than for the ignorant. We
do not pretend to have discovered any shorter method than what is common, of teaching these
sciences; but, in conformity with the principles which are laid down in the former part of
this work, we have endeavoured to teach their rudiments without disgusting our pupils, and
without habituating them to be contented with merely technical operations.

As soon as a child can read, he should be accustomed to count, and to have the names of numbers
early connected in his mind with the combinations which they represent. For this purpose, he
should be taught to add first by things, and afterwards by signs or figures. He should be taught
to form combinations of things by adding them together one after another. At the same time
that he acquires the names that have been given to these combinations, he should be taught
the figures or symbols that represent them. For example, when it is familiar to the child,
that one almond, and one almond, are called two almonds; that one almond, and two almonds,
are called three almonds, and so on, he should be taught to distinguish the figures that represent
these assemblages; that 3 means one and two, &c. Each operation of arithmetic should proceed
in this manner, from individuals to the abstract notation of signs.

One of the earliest operations of the reasoning faculty, is abstraction; that is to say, the
power of classing a number of individuals under one name. Young children call strangers either
men or women; even the most ignorant savages[15] have a propensity to generalize.

We may err either by accustoming our pupils too much to the consideration of tangible substances
when we teach them arithmetic, or by turning their attention too much to signs. The art of
forming a sound and active understanding, consists in the due mixture of facts and reflection.
Dr. Reid has, in his "Essay on the Intellectual Powers of Man," page 297, pointed out, with
great ingenuity, the admirable economy of nature in limiting the powers of reasoning during
the first years of infancy. This is the season for cultivating the senses, and whoever, at
this early age, endeavours to force the tender shoots of reason, will repent his rashness.

In the chapter "on Toys," we have recommended the use of plain, regular solids, cubes, globes,
&c. made of wood, as playthings for children, instead of uncouth figures of men, women and
animals. For teaching arithmetic, half inch cubes, which can be easily grasped by infant fingers,
may be employed with great advantage; they can be easily arranged in various combinations;
the eye can easily take in a sufficient number of them at once, and the mind is insensibly
led to consider the assemblages in which they may be grouped, not only as they relate to number,
but as they relate to quantity or shape; besides, the terms which are borrowed from some of
these shapes, as squares, cubes, &c. will become familiar. As these children advance in arithmetic
to square or cube, a number will be more intelligible to them than to a person who has been
taught these words merely as the formula of certain rules. In arithmetic, the first lessons
should be short and simple; two cubes placed above each other, will soon be called two; if
placed in any other situations near each other, they will still be called two; but it is advantageous
to accustom our little pupils to place the cubes with which they are taught in succession,
either by placing them upon one another, or laying in columns upon a table, beginning to count
from the cube next to them, as we cast up in addition. For this purpose, a board about six
inches long, and five broad, divided into columns perpendicularly by slips of wood three eighths
of an inch wide, and one eighth of an inch thick, will be found useful; and if a few cubes
of colours different from those already mentioned, with numbers on their six sides, are procured,
they may be of great service. Our cubes should be placed, from time to time, in a different
order, or promiscuously; but when any arithmetical operations are to be performed with them,
it is best to preserve the established arrangement.

One cube and one other, are called two.

Two what?

Two cubes.

One glass, and one glass, are called two glasses. One raisin, and one raisin, are called two
raisins, &c. One cube, and one glass, are called what? Two things or two.

By a process of this sort, the meaning of the abstract term two may be taught. A child will
perceive the word two, means the same as the words one and one; and when we say one and one
are called two, unless he is prejudiced by something else that is said to him, he will understand
nothing more than that there are two names for the same thing.

"One, and one, and one, are called three," is the same as saying "that three is the name for
one, and one, and one." "Two and one are three," is also the same as saying "that three is
the name of two and one." Three is also the name of one and two; the word three has, therefore,
three meanings; it means one, and one, and one; also, two and one; also, one and two. He will
see that any two of the cubes may be put together, as it were, in one parcel, and that this
parcel may be called two; and he will also see that this parcel, when joined to another single
cube, will make three, and that the sum will be the same, whether the single cube, or the two
cubes, be named first.

In a similar manner, the combinations which form four, may be considered. One, and one, and
one, and one, are four.

One and three are four.

Two and two are four.

Three and one are four.

All these assertions mean the same thing, and the term four is equally applicable to each of
them; when, therefore, we say that two and two are four, the child may be easily led to perceive,
and indeed to see, that it means the same thing as saying one two, and one two, which is the
same thing as saying two two's, or saying the word two two times. Our pupil should be suffered
to rest here, and we should not, at present, attempt to lead him further towards that compendious
method of addition which we call multiplication; but the foundation is laid by giving him this
view of the relation between two and two in forming four.

There is an enumeration in the note[16] of the different combinations which compose the rest
of the Arabic notation, which consists only of nine characters.

Before we proceed to the number ten, or to the new series of numeration which succeeds to it,
we should make our pupils perfectly masters of the combinations which we have mentioned, both
in the direct order in which they are arranged, and in various modes of succession; by these
means, not only the addition, but the subtraction, of numbers as far as nine, will be perfectly
familiar to them.

It has been observed before, that counting by realities, and by signs, should be taught at
the same time, so that the ear, the eye, and the mind, should keep pace with one another; and
that technical habits should be acquired without injury to the understanding. If a child begins
between four and five years of age, he may be allowed half a year for this essential, preliminary
step in arithmetic; four or five minutes application every day, will be sufficient to teach
him not only the relations of the first decade in numeration, but also how to write figures
with accuracy and expedition.

The next step, is, by far the most difficult in the science of arithmetic; in treatises upon
the subject, it is concisely passed over under the title of Numeration; but it requires no
small degree of care to make it intelligible to children, and we therefore recommend, that,
besides direct instruction upon the subject, the child should be led, by degrees, to understand
the nature of classification in general. Botany and natural history, though they are not pursued
as sciences, are, notwithstanding, the daily occupation and amusement of children, and they
supply constant examples of classification. In conversation, these may be familiarly pointed
out; a grove, a flock, &c. are constantly before the eyes of our pupil, and he comprehends
as well as we do what is meant by two groves, two flocks, &c. The trees that form the grove
are each of them individuals; but let their numbers be what they may when they are considered
as a grove, the grove is but one, and may be thought of and spoken of distinctly, without any
relation to the number of single trees which it contains. From these, and similar observations,
a child may be led to consider ten as the name for a whole, an integer; a one, which may be
represented by the figure (1): this same figure may also stand for a hundred, or a thousand,
as he will readily perceive hereafter. Indeed, the term one hundred will become familiar to
him in conversation long before he comprehends that the word ten is used as an aggregate term,
like a dozen, or a thousand. We do not use the word ten as the French do une dizaine; ten does
not, therefore, present the idea of an integer till we learn arithmetic. This is a defect in
our language, which has arisen from the use of duodecimal numeration; the analogies existing
between the names of other numbers in progression, is broken by the terms eleven and twelve.
Thirteen, fourteen, &c. are so obviously compounded of three and ten, and four and ten, as
to strike the ears of children immediately, and when they advance as far as twenty, they readily
perceive that a new series of units begins, and proceeds to thirty, and that thirty, forty,
&c. mean three tens, four tens, &c. In pointing out these analogies to children, they become
interested and attentive, they show that species of pleasure which arises from the perception
of aptitude, or of truth. It can scarcely be denied that such a pleasure exists independently
of every view of utility and fame; and when we can once excite this feeling in the minds of
our young pupils at any period of their education, we may be certain of success.

As soon as distinct notions have been acquired of the manner in which a collection of ten units
becomes a new unit of a higher order, our pupil may be led to observe the utility of this invention
by various examples, before he applies it to the rules of arithmetic. Let him count as far
as ten with black pebbles,[17] for instance; let him lay aside a white pebble to represent
the collection of ten; he may count another series of ten black pebbles, and lay aside another
white one; and so on, till he has collected ten white pebbles: as each of the ten white pebbles
represents ten black pebbles, he will have counted one hundred; and the ten white pebbles may
now be represented by a single red one, which will stand for one hundred. This large number,
which it takes up so much time to count, and which could not be comprehended at one view, is
represented by a single sign. Here the difference of colour forms the distinction: difference
in shape, or size, would answer the same purpose, as in the Roman notation X for ten, L for
fifty, C for one hundred, &c. All this is fully within the comprehension of a child of six
years old, and will lead him to the value of written figures by the place which they hold when
compared with one another. Indeed he may be led to invent this arrangement, a circumstance
which would encourage him in every part of his education. When once he clearly comprehends
that the third place, counting from the right, contains only figures which represent hundreds,
&c. he will have conquered one of the greatest difficulties of arithmetic. If a paper ruled
with several perpendicular lines, a quarter of an inch asunder, be shown to him, he will see
that the spaces or columns between these lines would distinguish the value of figures written
in them, without the use of the sign (0) and he will see that (0) or zero, serves only to mark
the place or situation of the neighbouring figures.

An idea of decimal arithmetic, but without detail, may now be given to him, as it will not
appear extraordinary to him that a unit should represent ten by having its place, or column
changed; and nothing more is necessary in decimal arithmetic, than to consider that figure
which represented, at one time, an integer, or whole, as representing at another time the number
of tenth parts into which that whole may have been broken.

Our pupil may next be taught what is called numeration, which he cannot fail to understand,
and in which he should be frequently exercised. Common addition will be easily understood by
a child who distinctly perceives that the perpendicular columns, or places in which figures
are written, may distinguish their value under various different denominations, as gallons,
furlongs, shillings, &c. We should not tease children with long sums in avoirdupois weight,
or load their frail memories with tables of long-measure, and dry-measure, and ale-measure
in the country, and ale-measure in London; only let them cast up a few sums in different denominations,
with the tables before them, and let the practice of addition be preserved in their minds by
short sums every day, and when they are between six and seven years old, they will be sufficiently
masters of the first and most useful rule of arithmetic.

To children who have been trained in this manner, subtraction will be quite easy; care, however,
should be taken to give them a clear notion of the mystery of borrowing and paying, which is
inculcated in teaching subtraction.

    From     94
    Subtract 46

"Six from four I can't, but six from ten, and four remains; four and four is eight."

And then, "One that I borrowed and four are five, five from nine, and four remains."

This is the formula; but is it ever explained--or can it be? Certainly not without some alteration.
A child sees that six cannot be subtracted (taken) from four: more especially a child who is
familiarly acquainted with the component parts of the names six and four: he sees that the
sum 46 is less than the sum 94, and he knows that the lesser sum may be subtracted from the
greater; but he does not perceive the means of separating them figure by figure. Tell him,
that though six cannot be deducted from four, yet it can from fourteen, and that if one of
the tens which are contained in the (9) ninety in the uppermost row of the second column, be
supposed to be taken away, or borrowed, from the ninety, and added to the four, the nine will
be reduced to 8 (eighty), and the four will become fourteen. Our pupil will comprehend this
most readily; he will see that 6, which could not be subtracted from 4, may be subtracted from
fourteen, and he will remember that the 9 in the next column is to be considered as only (8).
To avoid confusion, he may draw a stroke across the (9) and write 8 over[18] it [8 over (9)]
and proceed to the remainder of the operation. This method for beginners is certainly very
distinct, and may for some time, be employed with advantage; and after its rationale has become
familiar, we may explain the common method which depends upon this consideration.

"If one number is to be deducted from another, the remainder will be the same, whether we add
any given number to the smaller number, or take away the same given number from the larger."
For instance:

    Let the larger number be                            9
    And the smaller                                     4
    If you deduct 3 from the larger it will be          6
    From this subtract the smaller                      4
                                                       --
    The remainder will be                               2
                                                       --

    Or if you add 3 to the smaller number, it
    will be                                             7
                                                       --
    Subtract this from the larger number                9
                                                        7
                                                       --
    The remainder will be                               2

Now in the common method of subtraction, the one which is borrowed is taken from the uppermost
figure in the adjoining column, and instead of altering that figure to one less, we add one
to the lowest figure, which, as we have just shown, will have the same effect. The terms, however,
that are commonly used in performing this operation, are improper. To say "one that I borrowed,
and four" (meaning the lowest figure in the adjoining column) implies the idea that what was
borrowed is now to be repaid to that lowest figure, which is not the fact. As to multiplication,
we have little to say. Our pupil should be furnished, in the first instance, with a table containing
the addition of the different units, which form the different products of the multiplication
table: these he should, from time to time, add up as an exercise in addition; and it should
be frequently pointed out to him, that adding these figures so many times over, is the same
as multiplying them by the number of times that they are added; as three times 3 means 3 added
three times. Here one of the figures represents a quantity, the other does not represent a
quantity, it denotes nothing but the times, or frequency of repetition. Young people, as they
advance, are apt to confound these signs, and to imagine, for instance, in the rule of three,
&c. that the sums which they multiply together, mean quantities; that 40 yards of linen may
be multiplied by three and six-pence, &c.--an idea from which the misstatements in sums that
are intricate, frequently arise.

We have heard that the multiplication table has been set, like the Chapter of Kings, to a cheerful
tune. This is a species of technical memory which we have long practised, and which can do
no harm to the understanding; it prevents the mind from no beneficial exertion, and may save
much irksome labour. It is certainly to be wished, that our pupil should be expert in the multiplication
table; if the cubes which we have formerly mentioned, be employed for this purpose, the notion
of squaring figures will be introduced at the same time that the multiplication table is committed
to memory.

In division, what is called the Italian method of arranging the divisor and quotient, appears
to be preferable to the common one, as it places them in such a manner as to be easily multiplied
by each other, and as it agrees with algebraic notation.

    The usual method is this:

              Divisor
                71)83467(1175
              Italian method:
            Dividend

               83467|   71
                    | ----
                    | 1175

The rule of three is commonly taught in a manner merely technical: that it may be learned in
this manner, so as to answer the common purposes of life, there can be no doubt; and nothing
is further from our design, than to depreciate any mode of instruction which has been sanctioned
by experience: but our purpose is to point out methods of conveying instruction that shall
improve the reasoning faculty, and habituate our pupil to think upon every subject. We wish,
therefore, to point out the course which the mind would follow to solve problems relative to
proportion without the rule, and to turn our pupil's attention to the circumstances in which
the rule assists us.

The calculation of the price of any commodity, or the measure of any quantity, where the first
term is one, may be always stated as a sum in the rule of three; but as this statement retards,
instead of expediting the operation, it is never practised.

If one yard costs a shilling, how much will three yards cost?

The mind immediately perceives, that the price added three times together, or multiplied by
three, gives the answer. If a certain number of apples are to be equally distributed amongst
a certain number of boys, if the share of one is one apple, the share of ten or twenty is plainly
equal to ten or twenty. But if we state that the share of three boys is twelve apples, and
ask what number will be sufficient for nine boys, the answer is not obvious; it requires consideration.
Ask our pupil what made it so easy to answer the last question, he will readily say, "Because
I knew what was the share of one."

Then you could answer this new question if you knew the share of one boy?

Yes.

Cannot you find out what the share of one boy is when the share of three boys is twelve?

Four.

What number of apples then will be enough, at the same rate, for nine boys?

Nine times four, that is thirty-six.

In this process he does nothing more than divide the second number by the first, and multiply
the quotient by the third; 12 divided by 3 is 4, which multiplied by 9 is 36. And this is,
in truth, the foundation of the rule; for though the golden rule facilitates calculation, and
contributes admirably to our convenience, it is not absolutely necessary to the solution of
questions relating to proportion.

Again, "If the share of three boys is five apples, how many will be sufficient for nine?"

Our pupil will attempt to proceed as in the former question, and will begin by endeavouring
to find out the share of one of the three boys; but this is not quite so easy; he will see
that each is to have one apple, and part of another; but it will cost him some pains to determine
exactly how much. When at length he finds that one and two-thirds is the share of one boy,
before he can answer the question, he must multiply one and two-thirds by nine, which is an
operation in fractions, a rule of which he at present knows nothing. But if he begins by multiplying
the second, instead of dividing it previously by the first number, he will avoid the embarrassment
occasioned by fractional parts, and will easily solve the question.

           3 : 5 : 9 : 15
    Multiply      5
         by       9
                 --
        it makes 45

which product 45, divided by 3, gives 15.

Here our pupil perceives, that if a given number, 12, for instance, is to be divided by one
number, and multiplied by another, it will come to the same thing, whether he begins by dividing
the given number, or by multiplying it.

    12 divided by 4 is 3, which
    multiplied by 6 is 18;
    And
    12 multiplied by 6 is 72, which
    divided by       4 is 18.

We recommend it to preceptors not to fatigue the memories of their young pupils with sums which
are difficult only from the number of figures which they require, but rather to give examples
in practice, where aliquot parts are to be considered, and where their ingenuity may be employed
without exhausting their patience. A variety of arithmetical questions occur in common conversation,
and from common incidents; these should be made a subject of inquiry, and our pupils, amongst
others, should try their skill: in short, whatever can be taught in conversation, is clear
gain in instruction.

We should observe, that every explanation upon these subjects should be recurred to from time
to time, perhaps every two or three months; as there are no circumstances in the business of
every day, which recall abstract speculations to the minds of children; and the pupil who understands
them to-day, may, without any deficiency of memory, forget them entirely in a few weeks. Indeed,
the perception of the chain of reasoning, which connects demonstration, is what makes it truly
advantageous in education. Whoever has occasion, in the business of life, to make use of the
rule of three, may learn it effectually in a month as well as in ten years; but the habit of
reasoning cannot be acquired late in life without unusual labour, and uncommon fortitude.

FOOTNOTES:

[15] V. A strange instance quoted by Mr. Stewart, "On the Human Mind," page 152.

[16]

NOTE.

[18] This method is recommended in the Cours de Math, par Camus, p. 38.

CHAPTER XVI.

GEOMETRY.

There is certainly no royal road to geometry, but the way may be rendered easy and pleasant
by timely preparations for the journey.

Without any previous knowledge of the country, or of its peculiar language, how can we expect
that our young traveller should advance with facility or pleasure? We are anxious that our
pupil should acquire a taste for accurate reasoning, and we resort to Geometry, as the most
perfect, and the purest series of ratiocination which has been invented. Let us, then, sedulously
avoid whatever may disgust him; let his first steps be easy, and successful; let them be frequently
repeated until he can trace them without a guide.

We have recommended in the chapter upon Toys, that children should, from their earliest years,
be accustomed to the shape of what are commonly called regular solids; they should also be
accustomed to the figures in mathematical diagrams. To these should be added their respective
names, and the whole language of the science should be rendered as familiar as possible.

Mr. Donne, an ingenious mathematician of Bristol, has published a prospectus of an Essay on
Mechanical Geometry: he has executed, and employed with success, models in wood and metal for
demonstrating propositions in geometry in a palpable manner. We have endeavoured, in vain,
to procure a set of these models for our own pupils, but we have no doubt of their entire utility.

What has been acquired in childhood, should not be suffered to escape the memory. Dionysius[19]
had mathematical diagrams described upon the floors of his apartments, and thus recalled their
demonstrations to his memory. The slightest addition that can be conceived, if it be continued
daily, will imperceptibly, not only preserve what has been already acquired, but will, in a
few years, amount to as large a stock of mathematical knowledge as we could wish. It is not
our object to make mathematicians, but to make it easy to our pupil to become a mathematician,
if his interest, or his ambition, make it desirable; and, above all, to habituate him to clear
reasoning, and close attention. And we may here remark, that an early acquaintance with the
accuracy of mathematical demonstration, does not, within our experience, contract the powers
of the imagination. On the contrary, we think that a young lady of twelve years old, who is
now no more, and who had an uncommon propensity to mathematical reasoning, had an imagination
remarkably vivid and inventive.[20]

We have accustomed our pupils to form in their minds the conception of figures generated from
points and lines, and surfaces supposed to move in different directions, and with different
velocities. It may be thought, that this would be a difficult occupation for young minds; but,
upon trial, it will be found not only easy to them, but entertaining. In their subsequent studies,
it will be of material advantage; it will facilitate their progress not only in pure mathematics,
but in mechanics and astronomy, and in every operation of the mind which requires exact reflection.

To demand steady thought from a person who has not been trained to it, is one of the most unprofitable
and dangerous requisitions that can be made in education.

    "Full in the midst of Euclid dip at once,
    And petrify a genius to a dunce."

In the usual commencement of mathematical studies, the learner is required to admit that a
point, of which he sees the prototype, a dot before him, has neither length, breadth, nor thickness.
This, surely, is a degree of faith not absolutely necessary for the neophyte in science. It
is an absurdity which has, with much success, been attacked in "Observations on the Nature
of Demonstrative Evidence," by Doctor Beddoes.

We agree with the doctor as to the impropriety of calling a visible dot, a point without dimensions.
But, notwithstanding the high respect which the author commands by a steady pursuit of truth
on all subjects of human knowledge, we cannot avoid protesting against part of the doctrine
which he has endeavoured to inculcate. That the names point, radius, &c. are derived from sensible
objects, need not be disputed; but surely the word centre can be understood by the human mind
without the presence of any visible or tangible substance.

Where two lines meet, their junction cannot have dimensions; where two radii of a circle meet,
they constitute the centre, and the name centre may be used for ever without any relation to
a tangible or visible point. The word boundary, in like manner, means the extreme limit we
call a line; but to assert that it has thickness, would, from the very terms which are used
to describe it, be a direct contradiction. Bishop Berkely, Mr. Walton, Philathetes Cantabrigiensis,
and Mr. Benjamin Robins, published several pamphlets upon this subject about half a century
ago. No man had a more penetrating mind than Berkely; but we apprehend that Mr. Robins closed
the dispute against him. This is not meant as an appeal to authority, but to apprize such of
our readers as wish to consider the argument, where they may meet an accurate investigation
of the subject. It is sufficient for our purpose, to warn preceptors not to insist upon their
pupils' acquiescence in the dogma, that a point, represented by a dot, is without dimensions;
and at the same time to profess, that we understand distinctly what is meant by mathematicians
when they speak of length without breadth, and of a superfices without depth; expressions which,
to our minds, convey a meaning as distinct as the name of any visible or tangible substance
in nature, whose varieties from shade, distance, colour, smoothness, heat, &c. are infinite,
and not to be comprehended in any definition.

In fact, this is a dispute merely about words, and as the extension of the art of printing
puts it in the power of every man to propose and to defend his opinions at length, and at leisure,
the best friends may support different sides of a question with mutual regard, and the most
violent enemies with civility and decorum. Can we believe that Tycho Brahe lost half his nose
in a dispute with a Danish nobleman about a mathematical demonstration?

FOOTNOTES:

[19] Plutarch.--Life of Dion.

[20] V. Rivuletta, a little story written entirely by her in 1786.

CHAPTER XVII.

ON MECHANICS.

Parents are anxious that children should be conversant with Mechanics, and with what are called
the Mechanic Powers. Certainly no species of knowledge is better suited to the taste and capacity
of youth, and yet it seldom forms a part of early instruction. Every body talks of the lever,
the wedge, and the pulley, but most people perceive, that the notions which they have of their
respective uses, are unsatisfactory, and indistinct; and many endeavour, at a late period of
life, to acquire a scientific and exact knowledge of the effects that are produced by implements
which are in every body's hands, or that are absolutely necessary in the daily occupations
of mankind.

An itinerant lecturer seldom fails of having a numerous and attentive auditory; and if he does
not communicate much of that knowledge which he endeavours to explain, it is not to be attributed
either to his want of skill, or to the insufficiency of his apparatus, but to the novelty of
the terms which he is obliged to use. Ignorance of the language in which any science is taught,
is an insuperable bar to its being suddenly acquired; besides a precise knowledge of the meaning
of terms, we must have an instantaneous idea excited in our minds whenever they are repeated;
and, as this can be acquired only by practice, it is impossible that philosophical lectures
can be of much service to those who are not familiarly acquainted with the technical language
in which they are delivered; and yet there is scarcely any subject of human inquiry more obvious
to the understanding, than the laws of mechanics. Only a small portion of geometry is necessary
to the learner, if he even wishes to become master of the more difficult problems which are
usually contained in a course of lectures, and most of what is practically useful, may be acquired
by any person who is expert in common arithmetic.

But we cannot proceed a single step without deviating from common language; if the theory of
the balance, or the lever, is to be explained, we immediately speak of space and time. To persons
not versed in literature, it is probable that these terms appear more simple and unintelligible
than they do to a man who has read Locke, and other metaphysical writers. The term space to
the bulk of mankind, conveys the idea of an interval; they consider the word time as representing
a definite number of years, days, or minutes; but the metaphysician, when he hears the words
space and time, immediately takes the alarm, and recurs to the abstract notions which are associated
with these terms; he perceives difficulties unknown to the unlearned, and feels a confusion
of ideas which distracts his attention. The lecturer proceeds with confidence, never supposing
that his audience can be puzzled by such common terms. He means by space, the distance from
the place whence a body begins to fall, to the place where its motion ceases; and by time,
he means the number of seconds, or of any determinate divisions of civil time which elapse
from the commencement of any motion to its end; or, in other words, the duration of any given
motion. After this has been frequently repeated, any intelligent person perceives the sense
in which they are used by the tenour of the discourse; but in the interim, the greatest part
of what he has heard, cannot have been understood, and the premises upon which every subsequent
demonstration is founded, are unknown to him. If this be true, when it is affirmed of two terms
only, what must be the situation of those to whom eight or ten unknown technical terms occur
at the commencement of a lecture? A complete knowledge, such a knowledge as is not only full,
but familiar, of all the common terms made use of in theoretic and practical mechanics, is,
therefore, absolutely necessary before any person can attend public lectures in natural philosophy
with advantage.

What has been said of public lectures, may, with equal propriety, be applied to private instruction;
and it is probable, that inattention to this circumstance is the reason why so few people have
distinct notions of natural philosophy. Learning by rote, or even reading repeatedly, definitions
of the technical terms of any science, must undoubtedly facilitate its acquirement; but conversation,
with the habit of explaining the meaning of words, and the structure of common domestic implements,
to children, is the sure and effectual method of preparing the mind for the acquirement of science.

The ancients, in learning this species of knowledge, had an advantage of which we are deprived:
many of their terms of science were the common names of familiar objects. How few do we meet
who have a distinct notion of the words radius, angle, or valve. A Roman peasant knew what
a radius or a valve meant, in their original signification, as well as a modern professor;
he knew that a valve was a door, and a radius a spoke of a wheel; but an English child finds
it as difficult to remember the meaning of the word angle, as the word parabola. An angle is
usually confounded, by those who are ignorant of geometry and mechanics, with the word triangle,
and the long reasoning of many a laborious instructer has been confounded by this popular mistake.
When a glass pump is shown to an admiring spectator, he is desired to watch the motion of the
valves: he looks "above, about, and underneath;" but, ignorant of the word valve, he looks
in vain. Had he been desired to look at the motion of the little doors that opened and shut,
as the handle of the pump was moved up and down, he would have followed the lecturer with ease,
and would have understood all his subsequent reasoning. If a child attempts to push any thing
heavier than himself, his feet slide away from it, and the object can be moved only at intervals,
and by sudden starts; but if he be desired to prop his feet against the wall, he finds it easy
to push what before eluded his little strength. Here the use of a fulcrum, or fixed point,
by means of which bodies may be moved, is distinctly understood. If two boys lay a board across
a narrow block of wood, or stone, and balance each other at the opposite ends of it, they acquire
another idea of a centre of motion. If a poker is rested against a bar of a grate, and employed
to lift up the coals, the same notion of a centre is recalled to their minds. If a boy, sitting
upon a plank, a sofa, or form, be lifted up by another boy's applying his strength at one end
of the seat, whilst the other end of the seat rests on the ground, it will be readily perceived
by them, that the point of rest, or centre of motion, or fulcrum, is the ground, and that the
fulcrum is not, as in the first instance, between the force that lifts, and the thing that
is lifted; the fulcrum is at one end, the force which is exerted acts at the other end, and
the weight is in the middle. In trying, these simple experiments, the terms fulcrum, centre
of motion, &c. should be constantly employed, and in a very short time they would be as familiar
to a boy of eight years old as to any philosopher. If for some years the same words frequently
recur to him in the same sense, is it to be supposed that a lecture upon the balance and the
lever would be as unintelligible to him as to persons of good abilities, who at a more advanced
age hear these terms from the mouth of a lecturer? A boy in such circumstances would appear
as if he had a genius for mechanics, when, perhaps, he might have less taste for the science,
and less capacity, than the generality of the audience. Trifling as it may at first appear,
it will not be found a trifling advantage, in the progress of education, to attend to this
circumstance. A distinct knowledge of a few terms, assists a learner in his first attempts;
finding these successful, he advances with confidence, and acquires new ideas without difficulty
or disgust. Rousseau, with his usual eloquence, has inculcated the necessity of annexing ideas
to words; he declaims against the splendid ignorance of men who speak by rote, and who are
rich in words amidst the most deplorable poverty of ideas. To store the memory of his pupil
with images of things, he is willing to neglect, and leave to hazard, his acquirement of language.
It requires no elaborate argument to prove that a boy, whose mind was stored with accurate
images of external objects, of experimental knowledge, and who had acquired habitual dexterity,
but who was unacquainted with the usual signs by which ideas are expressed, would be incapable
of accurate reasoning, or would, at best, reason only upon particulars. Without general terms,
he could not abstract; he could not, until his vocabulary was enlarged, and familiar to him,
reason upon general topics, or draw conclusions from general principles: in short, he would
be in the situation of those who, in the solution of difficult and complicated questions relative
to quantity, are obliged to employ tedious and perplexed calculations, instead of the clear
and comprehensive methods that unfold themselves by the use of signs in algebra.

It is not necessary, in teaching children the technical language of any art or science, that
we should pursue the same order that is requisite in teaching the science itself. Order is
required in reasoning, because all reasoning is employed in deducing propositions from one
another in a regular series; but where terms are employed merely as names, this order may be
dispensed with. It is, however, of great consequence to seize the proper time for introducing
a new term; a moment when attention is awake, and when accident has produced some particular
interest in the object. In every family, opportunities of this sort occur without any preparation,
and such opportunities are far preferable to a formal lecture and a splendid apparatus for
the first lessons in natural philosophy and chemistry. If the pump belonging to the house is
out of order, and the pump-maker is set to work, an excellent opportunity presents itself for
variety of instruction. The centre pin of the handle is taken out, and a long rod is drawn
up by degrees, at the end of which a round piece of wood is seen partly covered with leather.
Your pupil immediately asks the name of it, and the pump-maker prevents your answer, by informing
little master that it is called a sucker. You show it to the child, he handles it, feels whether
the leather is hard or soft, and at length discovers that there is a hole through it which
is covered with a little flap or door. This, he learns from the workmen, is called a clack.
The child should now be permitted to plunge the piston (by which name it should now be called)
into a tub of water; in drawing it backwards and forwards, he will perceive that the clack,
which should now be called the valve, opens and shuts as the piston is drawn backwards and
forwards. It will be better not to inform the child how this mechanism is employed in the pump.
If the names sucker and piston, clack and valve, are fixed in his memory, it will be sufficient
for his first lesson. At another opportunity, he should be present when the fixed or lower
valve of the pump is drawn up; he will examine it, and find that it is similar to the valve
of the piston; if he sees it put down into the pump, and sees the piston put into its place,
and set to work, the names that he has learned will be fixed more deeply in his mind, and he
will have some general notion of the whole apparatus. From time to time these names should
be recalled to his memory on suitable occasions, but he should not be asked to repeat them
by rote. What has been said, is not intended as a lesson for a child in mechanics, but as a
sketch of a method of teaching which has been employed with success.

Whatever repairs are carried on in a house, children should be permitted to see: whilst every
body about them seems interested, they become attentive from sympathy; and whenever action
accompanies instruction, it is sure to make an impression. If a lock is out of order, when
it is taken off, show it to your pupil; point out some of its principal parts, and name them;
then put it into the hands of a child, and let him manage it as he pleases. Locks are full
of oil, and black with dust and iron; but if children have been taught habits of neatness,
they may be clock-makers and white-smiths, without spoiling their clothes, or the furniture
of a house. Upon every occasion of this sort, technical terms should be made familiar; they
are of great use in the every-day business of life, and are peculiarly serviceable in giving
orders to workmen, who, when they are spoken to in a language that they are used to, comprehend
what is said to them, and work with alacrity.

An early use of a rule and pencil, and easy access to prints of machines, of architecture,
and of the implements of trades, are of obvious use in this part of education. The machines
published by the Society of Arts in London; the prints in Desaguliers, Emerson, le Spectacle
de la Nature, Machines approuvées par l'Académie, Chambers's Dictionary, Berthoud sur l'Horlogerie,
Dictionaire des Arts et des Métiers, may, in succession, be put into the hands of children.
The most simple should be first selected, and the pupils should be accustomed to attend minutely
to one print before another is given to them. A proper person should carefully point out and
explain to them the first prints that they examine; they may afterwards be left to themselves.

To understand prints of machines, a previous knowledge of what is meant by an elevation, a
profile, a section, a perspective view, and a (vue d'oiseau) bird's eye view, is necessary.
To obtain distinct ideas of sections, a few models of common furniture, as chests of drawers,
bellows, grates, &c. may be provided, and may be cut asunder in different directions. Children
easily comprehend this part of drawing, and its uses, which may be pointed out in books of
architecture; its application to the common business of life, is so various and immediate,
as to fix it for ever in the memory; besides, the habit of abstraction, which is acquired by
drawing the sections of complicated architecture or machinery, is highly advantageous to the
mind. The parts which we wish to express, are concealed, and are suggested partly by the elevation
or profile of the figure, and partly by the connection between the end proposed in the construction
of the building, machine, &c. and the means which are adapted to effect it.

A knowledge of perspective, is to be acquired by an operation of the mind directly opposite
to what is necessary in delineating the sections of bodies; the mind must here be intent only
upon the objects that are delineated upon the retina, exactly what we see; it must forget or
suspend the knowledge which it has acquired from experience, and must see with the eye of childhood,
no further than the surface. Every person, who is accustomed to drawing in perspective, sees
external nature, when he pleases, merely as a picture: this habit contributes much to form
a taste for the fine arts; it may, however, be carried to excess. There are improvers who prefer
the most dreary ruin to an elegant and convenient mansion, and who prefer a blasted stump to
the glorious foliage of the oak.

Perspective is not, however, recommended merely as a means of improving the taste, but as it
is useful in facilitating the knowledge of mechanics. When once children are familiarly acquainted
with perspective, and with the representations of machines by elevations, sections, &c. prints
will supply them with an extensive variety of information; and when they see real machines,
their structure and uses will be easily comprehended. The noise, the seeming confusion, and
the size of several machines, make it difficult to comprehend and combine their various parts,
without much time, and repeated examination; the reduced size of prints lays the whole at once
before the eye, and tends to facilitate not only comprehension, but contrivance. Whoever can
delineate progressively as he invents, saves much labour, much time, and the hazard of confusion.
Various contrivances have been employed to facilitate drawing in perspective, as may be seen
in "Cabinet de Servier, Memoires of the French Academy, Philosophical Transactions, and lately
in the Repertory of Arts." The following is simple, cheap, and portable.

PLATE 1. FIG. 1.

A B C, three mahogany boards, two, four, and six inches long, and of the same breadth respectively,
so as to double in the manner represented.

PLATE 1. FIG. 2.

The part A is screwed, or clamped to a table of a convenient height, and a sheet of paper,
one edge of which is put under the piece A, will be held fast to the table.

The index P is to be set (at pleasure) with it sharp point to any part of an object which the
eye sees through E, the eye-piece.

The machine is now to be doubled as in Fig. 2, taking care that the index be not disturbed;
the point, which was before perpendicular, will then approach the paper horizontally, and the
place to which it points on the paper, must be marked with a pencil. The machine must be again
unfolded, and another point of the object is to be ascertained in the same manner as before;
the space between these points may be then connected with a line; fresh points should then
be taken, marked with a pencil, and connected with a line; and so on successively, until the
whole object is delineated.

Besides the common terms of art, the technical terms of science should, by degrees, be rendered
familiar to our pupils. Amongst these the words Space and Time occur, as we have observed,
the soonest, and are of the greatest importance. Without exact definitions, or abstract reasonings,
a general notion of the use of these terms may be inculcated by employing them frequently in
conversation, and by applying them to things and circumstances which occur without preparation,
and about which children are interested, or occupied. "There is a great space left between
the words in that printing." The child understands, that space in this sentence means white
paper between black letters. "You should leave a greater space between the flowers which you
are planting"--he knows that you mean more ground. "There is a great space between that boat
and the ship"--space of water. "I hope the hawk will not be able to catch that pigeon, there
is a great space between them"--space of air. "The men who are pulling that sack of corn into
the granary, have raised it through half the space between the door and the ground." A child
cannot be at any loss for the meaning of the word space in these or any other practical examples
which may occur; but he should also be used to the word space as a technical expression, and
then he will not be confused or stopped by a new term when employed in mechanics.

The word time may be used in the same manner upon numberless occasions to express the duration
of any movement which is performed by the force of men, or horses, wind, water, or any mechanical
power.

"Did the horses in the mill we saw yesterday, go as fast as the horses which are drawing the
chaise?" "No, not as fast as the horses go at present on level ground; but they went as fast
as the chaise-horses do when they go up hill, or as fast as horses draw a waggon."

"How many times do the sails of that wind-mill go round in a minute? Let us count; I will look
at my watch; do you count how often the sails go round; wait until that broken arm is uppermost,
and when you say now, I will begin to count the time; when a minute has past, I will tell you."

After a few trials, this experiment will become easy to a child of eight or nine years old;
he may sometimes attend to the watch, and at other times count the turns of the sails; he may
easily be made to apply this to a horse-mill, or to a water-mill, a corn-fan, or any machine
that has a rotatory motion; he will be entertained with his new employment; he will compare
the velocities of different machines; the meaning of this word will be easily added to his
vocabulary.

"Does that part of the arms of the wind-mill which is near the axle-tree, or centre, I mean
that part which has no cloth or sail upon it, go as fast as the ends of the arms that are the
farthest from the centre?"

"No, not near so fast."

"But that part goes as often round in a minute as the rest of the sail."

"Yes, but it does not go as fast."

"How so?"

"It does not go so far round."

"No, it does not. The extremities of the sails go through more space in the same time than
the part near the centre."

By conversations like these, the technical meaning of the word velocity may be made quite familiar
to a child much younger than what has been mentioned; he may not only comprehend that velocity
means time and space considered together, but if he is sufficiently advanced in arithmetic,
he may be readily taught how to express and compare in numbers velocities composed of certain
portions of time and space. He will not inquire about the abstract meaning of the word space;
he has seen space measured on paper, on timber, on the water, in the air, and he perceives
distinctly that it is a term equally applicable to all distances that can exist between objects
of any sort, or that he can see, feel, or imagine.

Momentum, a less common word, the meaning of which is not quite so easy to convey to a child,
may, by degrees, be explained to him: at every instant he feels the effect of momentum in his
own motions, and in the motions of every thing that strikes against him; his feelings and experience
require only proper terms to become the subject of his conversation. When he begins to inquire,
it is the proper time to instruct him. For instance, a boy of ten years old, who had acquired
the meaning of some other terms in science, this morning asked the meaning of the word momentum;
he was desired to explain what he thought it meant.

He answered, "Force."

"What do you mean by force?"

"Effort."

"Of what?"

"Of gravity."

"Do you mean that force by which a body is drawn down to the earth?"

"No."

"Would a feather, if it were moving with the greatest conceivable swiftness or velocity, throw
down a castle?"

"No."[21]

"Would a mountain torn up by the roots, as fabled in Milton, if it moved with the least conceivable
velocity, throw down a castle?"

"Yes, I think it would."

The difference between an uniform, and an uniformly accelerated motion, the measure of the
velocity of falling bodies, the composition of motions communicated to the same body in different
directions at the same time, and the cause of the curvilinear track of projectiles, seem, at
first, intricate subjects, and above the capacity of boys of ten or twelve years old; but by
short and well-timed lessons, they may be explained without confounding or fatiguing their
attention. We tried another experiment whilst this chapter was writing, to determine whether
we had asserted too much upon this subject. After a conversation between two boys upon the
descent of bodies towards the earth, and upon the measure of the increasing velocity with which
they fall, they were desired, with a view to ascertain whether they understood what was said,
to invent a machine which should show the difference between an uniform and an accelerated
velocity, and in particular to show, by occular demonstration, "that if one body moves in a
given time through a given space, with an uniform motion, and if another body moves through
the same space in the same time with an uniformly accelerated motion, the uniform motion of
the one will be equal to half the accelerated motion of the other." The eldest boy, H----,
thirteen years old, invented and executed the following machine for this purpose:

Plate I, Fig. 3. b is a bracket 9 inches by 5, consisting of a back and two sides of hard wood:
two inches from the back two slits are made in the sides of the bracket half an inch deep,
and an eighth of an inch wide, to receive the two wire pivots of a roller; which roller is
composed of a cylinder, three inches long and half an inch diameter; and a cone three inches
long and one inch diameter in its largest part or base. The cylinder and cone are not separate,
but are turned out of one piece; a string is fastened to the cone at its base a, with a bullet
or any other small weight at the other end of it; and another string and weight are fastened
to the cylinder at c; the pivot p of wire is bent into the form of a handle; if the handle
is turned either way, the strings will be respectively wound up upon the cone and cylinder;
their lengths should now be adjusted, so that when the string on the cone is wound up as far
as the cone will permit, the two weights may be at an equal distance from the bottom of the
bracket, which bottom we suppose to be parallel with the pivots; the bracket should now be
fastened against a wall, at such a height as to let the weights lightly touch the floor when
the strings are unwound: silk or bobbin is a proper kind of string for this purpose, as it
is woven or plaited, and therefore is not liable to twist. When the strings are wound up to
their greatest heights, if the handle be suddenly let go, both the weights will begin to fall
at the same moment; but the weight 1, will descend at first but slowly, and will pass through
but small space compared with the weight 2. As they descend further, No. 2 still continues
to get before No. 1; but after some time, No. 1 begins to overtake No. 2, and at last they
come to the ground together. If this machine is required to show exactly the space that a falling
body would describe in given times, the cone and cylinder must have grooves cut spirally upon
their circumference, to direct the string with precision. To describe these spiral lines, became
a new subject of inquiry. The young mechanics were again eager to exert their powers of invention;
the eldest invented a machine upon the same principle as that which is used by the best workmen
for cutting clock fusees; and it is described in Berthoud. The youngest invented the engine
delineated, Plate 1, Fig. 4.

The roller or cone (or both together) which it is required to cut spirally, must be furnished
with a handle, and a toothed wheel w, which turns a smaller wheel or pinion w. This pinion
carries with it a screw s, which draws forward the puppet p, in which the graver of chisel
g slides without shake. This graver has a point or edge shaped properly to form the spiral
groove, with a shoulder to regulate the depth of the groove. The iron rod r, which is firmly
fastened in the puppet, slides through mortices at mm, and guides the puppet in a straight line.

The rest of the machine is intelligible from the drawing.

A simple method of showing the nature of compound forces was thought of at the same time. An
ivory ball was placed at the corner of a board sixteen inches broad, and two feet long; two
other similar balls were let fall down inclined troughs against the first ball in different
directions, but at the same time. One fell in a direction parallel to the length of the board;
the other ball fell back in a direction parallel to its breadth. By raising the troughs, such
a force was communicated to each of the falling balls, as was sufficient to drive the ball
that was at rest to that side or end of the board which was opposite, or at right angles, to
the line of its motion.

When both balls were let fall together, they drove the ball that was at rest diagonally, so
as to reach the opposite corner. If the same board were placed as an inclined plane, at an
angle of five or six degrees, a ball placed at one of its uppermost corners, would fall with
an accelerated motion in a direct line; but if another ball were made (by descending through
an inclined trough) to strike the first ball at right angles to the line of its former descent,
at the moment when it began to descend, it would not, as in the former experiment, move diagonally,
but would describe a curve.

The reason why it describes a curve, and why that curve is not circular, was easily understood.
Children who are thus induced to invent machines or apparatus for explaining and demonstrating
the laws of mechanism, not only fix indelibly those laws in their own minds, but enlarge their
powers of invention, and preserve a certain originality of thought, which leads to new discoveries.

We therefore strongly recommend it to teachers, to use as few precepts as possible in the rudiments
of science, and to encourage their pupils to use their own understandings as they advance.
In mechanism, a general view of the powers and uses of engines is all that need be taught;
where more is necessary, such a foundation, with the assistance of good books, and the examination
of good machinery, will perfect the knowledge of theory and facilitate practice.

At first we should not encumber our pupils with accurate demonstration. The application of
mathematics to mechanics is undoubtedly of the highest use, and has opened a source of ingenious
and important inquiry. Archimedes, the greatest name amongst mechanic philosophers, scorned
the mere practical application of his sublime discoveries, and at the moment when the most
stupendous effects were producing by his engines, he was so deeply absorbed in abstract speculation
as to be insensible to the fear of death. We do not mean, therefore, to undervalue either the
application of strict demonstration to problems in mechanics, or the exhibition of the most
accurate machinery in philosophical lectures; but we wish to point out a method of giving a
general notion of the mechanical organs to our pupils, which shall be immediately obvious to
their comprehension, and which may serve as a sure foundation for future improvement. We are
told by a vulgar proverb, that though we believe what we see, we have yet a higher belief in
what we feel. This adage is particularly applicable to mechanics. When a person perceives the
effect of his own bodily exertions with different engines, and when he can compare in a rough
manner their relative advantages, he is not disposed to reject their assistance, or expect
more than is reasonable from their application. The young theorist in mechanics thinks he can
produce a perpetual motion! When he has been accustomed to refer to the plain dictates of common
sense and experience, on this, as well as on every other subject, he will not easily be led
astray by visionary theories.

To bring the sense of feeling to our assistance in teaching the uses of the mechanic powers,
the following apparatus was constructed, to which we have given the name Panorganon.

It is composed of two principal parts: a frame to contain the moving machinery; and a capstan
or windlass, which is erected on a sill or plank, that is sunk a few inches into the ground:
the frame is by this means, and by six braces or props, rendered steady. The cross rail, or
transom, is strengthened by braces and a king-post to make it lighter and cheaper. The capstan
consists of an upright shaft, upon which are fixed two drums; about which a rope may be wound
up, and two levers or arms by which it may be turned round. There is also a screw of iron coiled
round the lower part of the shaft, to show the properties of the screw as a mechanic power.
The rope which goes round the drum passes over one of the pulleys near to the top of the frame,
and under another pulley near the bottom of the frame. As two drums of different sizes are
employed, it is necessary to have an upright roller to conduct the rope in a proper direction
to the pulleys, when either of the drums is used. Near the frame, and in the direction in which
the rope runs, is laid a platform or road of deal boards, one board in breadth, and twenty
or thirty feet long, upon which a small sledge loaded with different weights may be drawn.
Plate 2. Fig. 1.

F. F. The frame.

b. b. Braces to keep the frame steady.

a. a. a. Angular braces to strengthen the transom; and also a king-post.

S. A round, taper shaft, strengthened above and below the mortises with iron hoops.

L L. Two arms, or levers, by which the shaft, &c. are to be moved round.

D D. The drum, which has two rims of different circumferences.

R. The roller to conduct the rope.

P. The pulley, round which the rope passes to the larger drum.

P 2. Another pulley to answer to the smaller drum.

P 3. A pulley through which the rope passes when experiments are tried with levers, &c.

P 4. Another pulley through which the rope passes when the sledge is used.

Ro. The road of deal boards for the sledge to move on.

Sl. The sledge, with pieces of hard wood attached to it, to guide it on the road.

Uses of the Panorganon.

As this machine is to be moved by the force of men or children, and as their force varies not
only with the strength and weight of each individual, but also according to the different manner
in which that strength or weight is applied; it is, in the first place, requisite to establish
one determinate mode of applying human force to the machine; and also a method of determining
the relative force of each individual whose strength is applied to it.

To estimate the force with which a person can draw horizontally by a rope over his shoulder.

EXPERIMENT I.

Hang a common long scale-beam (without scales or chains) from the top or transom of the frame,
so as that one end of it may come within an inch of one side or post of the machine. Tie a
rope to the hook of the scale-beam, where the chains of the scale are usually hung, and pass
it through the pulley P 3, which is about four feet from the ground; let the person pull this
rope from 1 towards 2, turning his back to the machine, and pulling the rope over his shoulder--Pl.
2. Fig. 6. As the pulley may be either too high or too low to permit the rope to be horizontal,
the person who pulls it should be placed ten or fifteen feet from the machine, which will lessen
the angular direction of the cord, and the inaccuracy of the experiment. Hang weights to the
other end of the scale-beam, until the person who pulls can but just walk forward, pulling
fairly without propping his feet against any thing. This weight will estimate the force with
which he can draw horizontally by a rope over his shoulder.[22] Let a child who tries this,
walk on the board with dry shoes; let him afterwards chalk his shoes, and afterwards try it
with his shoes soaped: he will find that he can pull with different degrees of force in these
different circumstances; but when he tries the following experiments, let his shoes be always
dry, that his force may be always the same.

To show the power of the three different sorts of levers.

EXPERIMENT II.

Instead of putting the cord that comes from the scale-beam, as in the last experiment, over
the shoulder of the boy, hook it to the end 1 of the lever L, Fig. 2. Plate 2. This lever is
passed through a socket--Plate 2. Fig. 3.--in which it can be shifted from one of its ends
towards the other, and can be fastened at any place by the screw of the socket. This socket
has two gudgeons, upon which it, and the lever which it contains, can turn. This socket and
its gudgeons can be lifted out of the holes in which it plays, between the rail R R, Plate
2. Fig. 2. and may be put into other holes at R R, Fig. 5. Loop another rope to the other end
of this lever, and let the boy pull as before. Perhaps it should be pointed out, that the boy
must walk in a direction contrary to that in which he walked before, viz. from 1 towards 3.
The height to which the weight ascends, and the distance to which the boy advances, should
be carefully marked and measured; and it will be found, that he can raise the weight to the
same height, advancing through the same space as in the former experiment. In this case, as
both ends of the lever moved through equal spaces, the lever only changed the direction of
the motion, and added no mechanical power to the direct strength of the boy.

EXPERIMENT III.

Shift the lever to its extremity in the socket; the middle of the lever will be now opposite
to the pulley, Pl. 2. Fig. 4.--hook to it the rope that goes through the pulley P 3, and fasten
to the other end of the lever the rope by which the boy is to pull. This will be a lever of
the second kind, as it is called in books of mechanics; in using which, the resistance is placed
between the centre of motion or fulcrum, and the moving power. He will now raise double the
weight that he did in Experiment II, and he will advance through double the space.

EXPERIMENT IV.

Shift the lever, and the socket which forms the axis (without shifting the lever from the place
in which it was in the socket in the last experiment) to the holes that are prepared for it
at R R, Plate 2. Fig. 5. The free end of the lever E will now be opposite to the rope, and
to the pulley (over which the rope comes from the scale-beam.) Hook this rope to it, and hook
the rope by which the boy pulls, to the middle of the lever. The effect will now be different
from what it was in the two last experiments; the boy will advance only half as far, and will
raise only half as much weight as before. This is called a lever of the third sort. The first
and second kinds of levers are used in quarrying; and the operations of many tools may be referred
to them. The third kind of lever is employed but seldom, but its properties may be observed
with advantage whilst a long ladder is raised, as the man who raises it, is obliged to exert
an increasing force until the ladder is nearly perpendicular. When this lever is used, it is
obvious, from what has been said, that the power must always pass through less space than the
thing which is to be moved; it can never, therefore, be of service in gaining power. But the
object of some machines, is to increase velocity, instead of obtaining power, as in a sledge-hammer
moved by mill-work. (V. the plates in Emerson's Mechanics, No. 236.)

The experiments upon levers may be varied at pleasure, increasing or diminishing the mechanical
advantage, so as to balance the power and the resistance, to accustom the learners to calculate
the relation between the power and the effect in different circumstances; always pointing out,
that whatever excess there is in the power,[23] or in the resistance, is always compensated
by the difference of space through which the inferiour passes.

The experiments which we have mentioned, are sufficiently satisfactory to a pupil, as to the
immediate relation between the power and the resistance; but the different spaces through which
the power and the resistance move when one exceeds the other, cannot be obvious, without they
pass through much larger spaces than levers will permit.

EXPERIMENT V.

Place the sledge on the farthest end of the wooden road--Plate 2. Fig. 1.--fasten a rope to
the sledge, and conduct it through the lowest pulley P 4, and through the pulley P 3, so as
that the boy may be enabled to draw it by the rope passed over his shoulder. The sledge must
now be loaded, until the boy can but just advance with short steps steadily upon the wooden
road; this must be done with care, as there will be but just room for him beside the rope.
He will meet the sledge exactly on the middle of the road, from which he must step aside to
pass the sledge. Let the time of this experiment be noted. It is obvious that the boy and the
sledge move with equal velocity; there is, therefore, no mechanical advantage obtained by the
pulleys. The weight that he can draw will be about half a hundred, if he weigh about nine stone;
but the exact force with which the boy draws, is to be known by Experiment I.

The wheel and axle.

This organ is usually called in mechanics, The axis in peritrochio. A hard name, which might
well be spared, as the word windlass or capstan would convey a more distinct idea to our pupils.

EXPERIMENT VI.

To the largest drum, Plate 2. Fig. 1. fasten a cord, and pass it through the pulley P downwards,
and through the pulley P 4 to the sledge placed at the end of the wooden road, which is farthest
from the machine. Let the boy, by a rope fastened to the extremity of one of the arms of the
capstan, and passed over his shoulder, draw the capstan round; he will wind the rope round
the drum, and draw the sledge upon its road. To make the sledge advance twenty-four feet upon
its road, the boy must have walked circularly 144 feet, which is six times as far, and he will
be able to draw about three hundred weight, which is six times as much as in the last experiment.

It may now be pointed out, that the difference of space, passed through by the power in this
experiment, is exactly equal to the difference of weight, which the boy could draw without
the capstan.

EXPERIMENT VII.

Let the rope be now attached to the smaller drum; the boy will draw nearly twice as much weight
upon the sledge as before, and will go through double the space.

EXPERIMENT VIII.

Where there are a number of boys, let five or six of them, whose power of drawing (estimated
as in Experiment I) amounts to six times as much as the force of the boy at the capstan, pull
at the end of the rope which was fastened to the sledge; they will balance the force of the
boy at the capstan: either they, or he, by a sudden pull, may advance, but if they pull fairly,
there will be no advantage on either part. In this experiment, the rope should pass through
the pulley P 3, and should be coiled round the larger drum. And it must be also observed, that
in all experiments upon the motion of bodies, in which there is much friction, as where a sledge
is employed, the results are never so uniform as in other circumstances.

The Pulley.

Upon the pulley we shall say little, as it is in every body's hands, and experiments may be
tried upon it without any particular apparatus. It should, however, be distinctly inculcated,
that the power is not increased by a fixed pulley. For this purpose, a wheel without a rim,
or, to speak with more propriety, a number of spokes fixed in a nave, should be employed. (Plate
2. Fig. 9.) Pieces like the heads of crutches should be fixed at the ends of these spokes,
to receive a piece of girth-web, which is used instead of a cord, because a cord would be unsteady;
and a strap of iron with a hook to it should play upon the centre, by which it may at times
be suspended, and from which at other times a weight may be hung.

EXPERIMENT IX.

Let the skeleton of a pulley be hung by the iron strap from the transom of the frame; fasten
a piece of web to one of the radii, and another to the end of the opposite radius. If two boys
of equal weight pull these pieces of girth-web, they will balance each other; or two equal
weights hung to these webs, will be in equilibrio. If a piece of girth-web be put round the
uppermost radius, two equal weights hung at the ends of it will remain immoveable; but if either
of them be pulled, or if a small additional weight be added to either of them, it will descend,
and the web will apply itself successively to the ascending radii, and will detach itself from
those that are descending. If this movement be carefully considered, it will be perceived,
that the web, in unfolding itself, acts in the same manner upon the radii as two ropes would
if they were hung to the extremities of the opposite radii in succession. The two radii which
are opposite, may be considered as a lever of the first sort, where the centre is in the middle
of the lever; as each end moves through an equal space, there is no mechanical advantage. But
if this skeleton-pulley be employed as a common block or tackle, its motions and properties
will be entirely different.

EXPERIMENT X. PLATE 2. FIG. 9.

Nail a piece of girth-web to a post, at the distance of three or four feet from the ground;
fasten the other end of it to one of the radii. Fasten another piece of web to the opposite
radius, and let a boy hold the skeleton-pulley suspended by the web; hook weights to the strap
that hangs from the centre. The end of the radius to which the fixed girth-web is fastened,
will remain immoveable; but, if the boy pulls the web which he holds in his hand upwards, he
will be able to lift nearly double the weight, which he can raise from the ground by a simple
rope, without the machine, and he will perceive that his hand moves through twice as great
a space as the weight ascends: he has, therefore, the mechanical advantage which he would have
by a lever of the second sort, as in Experiment III. Let a piece of web be put round the under
radii, let one end of it be nailed to the post, and the other be held by the boy, and it will
represent the application of a rope to a moveable pulley; if its motion be carefully considered,
it will appear that the radii, as they successively apply themselves to the web, represent
a series of levers of the second kind. A pulley is nothing more than an infinite number of
such levers; the cord at one end of the diameter serving as a fulcrum for the organ during
its progress. If this skeleton-pulley be used horizontally, instead of perpendicularly, the
circumstances which have been mentioned, will appear more obvious.

Upon the wooden road lay down a piece of girth-web; nail one end of it to the road; place the
pulley upon the web at the other end of the board, and, bringing the web over the radii, let
the boy, taking hold of it, draw the loaded sledge fastened to the hook at the centre of the
pulley: he will draw nearly twice as much in this manner as he could without the pulley.[24]

Here the web lying on the road, shows more distinctly, that it is quiescent where the lowest
radius touches it; and if the radii, as they tread upon it, are observed, their points will
appear at rest, whilst the centre of the pulley will go as fast as the sledge, and the top
of each radius successively (and the boy's hand which unfolds the web) will move twice as fast
as the centre of the pulley and the sledge.

If a person, holding a stick in his hand, observes the relative motions of the top, and the
middle, and the bottom of the stick, whilst he inclines it, he will see that the bottom of
the stick has no motion on the ground, and that the middle has only half the motion of the
top. This property of the pulley has been dwelt upon, because it elucidates the motion of a
wheel rolling upon the ground; and it explains a common paradox, which appears at first inexplicable.
"The bottom of a rolling wheel never moves upon the road." This is asserted only of a wheel
moving over hard ground, which, in fact, may be considered rather as laying down its circumference
upon the road, than as moving upon it.

The inclined Plane and the Wedge.

The inclined plane is to be next considered. When a heavy body is to be raised, it is often
convenient to lay a sloping artificial road of planks, up which it may be pushed or drawn.
This mechanical power, however, is but of little service without the assistance of wheels or
rollers; we shall, therefore, speak of it as it is applied in another manner, under the name
of the wedge, which is, in fact, a moving inclined plane; but if it is required to explain
the properties of the inclined plane by the panorganon, the wooden road may be raised and set
to any inclination that is required, and the sledge may be drawn upon it as in the former experiments.

Let one end of a lever, N. Plate 2. Fig. 7. with a wheel at one end of it, be hinged to the
post of the frame, by means of a gudgeon driven or screwed into the post. To prevent this lever
from deviating sideways, let a slip of wood be connected with it by a nail, which shall be
fast in the lever, but which moves freely in a hole in the rail. The other end of this slip
must be fastened to a stake driven into the ground at three or four feet from the lever, at
one side of it, and towards the end in which the wheel is fixed (Plate 2. Fig 10. which is
a vue d'oiseau) in the same manner as the treadle of a common lathe is managed, and as the
treadle of a loom is sometimes guided.[25]

EXPERIMENT XI.

Under the wheel of this lever place an inclined plane or half-wedge (Plate 2. Fig. 7.) on the
wooden road, with rollers under it, to prevent friction;[26] fasten a rope to the foremost
end of the wedge, and pass it through the pulleys (P 4. and P 3.) as in the fifth experiment.
Let a boy draw the sledge by this rope over his shoulder, and he will find, that as it advances
it will raise the weight upwards; the wedge is five feet long, and elevated one foot. Now,
if the perpendicular ascent of the weight, and the space through which he advances, be compared,
he will find, that the space through which he has passed will be five times as great as that
through which the weight has ascended; and that this wedge has enabled him to raise five times
as much as he could raise without it, if his strength were applied, as in Experiment I, without
any mechanical advantage. By making this wedge in two parts hinged together, with a graduated
piece to keep them asunder, the wedge may be adjusted to any given obliquity; and it will be
always found, that the mechanical advantage of the wedge may be ascertained by comparing its
perpendicular elevation with its base. If the base of the wedge is 2, 3, 4, 5, or any other
number of times greater than its height, it will enable the boy to raise respectively 2, 3,
4, or 5 times more weight than he could do in Experiment I, by which his power is estimated.

The Screw.

The screw is an inclined plane wound round a cylinder; the height of all its revolutions round
the cylinder taken together, compared with the space through which the power that turns it
passes, is the measure of its mechanical advantage.[27] Let the lever, used in the last experiment,
be turned in such a manner as to reach from its gudgeon to the shaft of the Panorganon, guided
by an attendant lever as before. (Plate 2. Fig. 8.) Let the wheel rest upon the lowest helix
or thread of the screw: as the arms of the shaft are turned round, the wheel will ascend, and
carry up the weight which is fastened to the lever.[28] As the situation of the screw prevents
the weight from being suspended exactly from the centre of the screw, proper allowance must
be made for this in estimating the force of the screw, or determining the mechanical advantage
gained by the lever: this can be done by measuring the perpendicular ascent of the weight,
which in all cases is better, and more expeditious, than measuring the parts of a machine,
and estimating its force by calculation; because the different diameters of ropes, and other
small circumstances, are frequently mistaken in estimates.

The space passed through by the moving power, and by that which it moves, are infallible data
for estimating the powers of engines. Two material subjects of experiments, yet remain for
the Panorganon; friction, and wheels of carriages: but we have already extended this article
far beyond its just proportion to similar chapters in this work. We repeat, that it is not
intended in this, or in any other part of our design, to write treatises upon science; but
merely to point out methods for initiating young people in the rudiments of knowledge, and
of giving them a clear and distinct view of those principles upon which they are founded. No
preceptor, who has had experience, will cavil at the superficial knowledge of a boy of twelve
or thirteen upon these subjects; he will perceive, that the general view, which we wish to
give our pupils of the useful arts and sciences, must certainly tend to form a taste for literature
and investigation. The sciolist has learned only to talk--we wish to teach our pupils to think,
upon the various objects of human speculation.

The Panorganon may be employed in trying the resistance of air and water; the force of different
muscles; and in a great variety of amusing and useful experiments. In academies, and private
families, it may be erected in the place allotted for amusement, where it will furnish entertainment
for many a vacant hour. When it has lost its novelty, the shaft may from time to time be taken
down, and a swing may be suspended in its place. It may be constructed at the expense of five
or six pounds: that which stands before our window, was made for less than three guineas, as
we had many of the materials beside us for other purposes.

FOOTNOTES:

[21] When this question was sometime afterwards repeated to S----, he observed, that the feather
would throw down the castle, if its swiftness were so great as to make up for its want of weight.

[22] Were it thought necessary to make these experiments perfectly accurate, a segment of a
pulley, the radius of which is half the length of the scale-beam, should be attached to the
end of the beam; upon which the cord may apply itself, and the pulley (P 3) should be raised
or lowered, to bring the rope horizontally from the man's shoulder when in the attitude of drawing.

[23] The word power is here used in a popular sense, to denote the strength or efficacy that
is employed to produce an effect by means of any engine.

[24] In all these experiments with the skeleton-pulley, somebody must keep it in its proper
direction; as from its structure, which is contrived for illustration, not for practical use,
it cannot retain its proper situation without assistance.

[25] In a loom this secondary lever is called a lamb, by mistake, for lam; from lamina, a slip
of wood.

[26] There should be three rollers used; one of them must be placed before the sledge, under
which it will easily find its place, if the bottom of the sledge near the foremost end is a
little sloped upwards. To retain this foremost roller in its place until the sledge meets it,
it should be stuck lightly on the road with two small bits of wax or pitch.

[27] Mechanical advantage is not a proper term, but our language is deficient in proper technical
terms. The word power is used so indiscriminately, that it is scarcely possible to convey our
meaning, without employing it more strictly.

[28] In this experiment, the boy should pull as near as possible to the shaft, within a foot
of it, for instance, else he will have such mechanical advantage as cannot be counterbalanced
by any weight which the machine would be strong enough to bear.

CHAPTER XVIII.

CHEMISTRY.

In the first attempts to teach chemistry to children, objects should be selected, the principal
properties of which may be easily discriminated by the senses of touch, taste or smell; and
such terms should be employed as do not require accurate definition.

When a child has been caught in a shower of snow, he goes to the fire to warm and dry himself.
After he has been before the fire for some time, instead of becoming dry, he finds that he
is wetter than he was before: water drops from his hat and clothes, and the snow with which
he was covered disappears. If you ask him what has become of the snow, and why he has become
wetter, he cannot tell you. Give him a tea-cup of snow, desire him to place it before the fire,
he perceives that the snow melts, that it becomes water. If he puts his finger into the water,
he finds that it is warmer than snow; he then perceives that the fire which warmed him, warmed
likewise the snow, which then became water; or, in other words, he discovers, that the heat
which came from the fire goes into the snow and melts it: he thus acquires the idea of the
dissolution of snow by heat.

If the cup containing the water, or melted snow, be taken from the fire, and put out of the
window on a frosty day, he perceives, that in time the water grows colder; that a thin, brittle
skin spreads over it; which grows thicker by degrees, till at length all the water becomes
ice; and if the cup be again put before the fire, the ice returns to water. Thus he discovers,
that by diminishing the heat of water, it becomes ice; by adding heat to ice, it becomes water.

A child watches the drops of melted sealing-wax as they fall upon paper. When he sees you stir
the wax about, and perceives, that what was formerly hard, now becomes soft and very hot, he
will apply his former knowledge of the effects of heat upon ice and snow, and he will tell
you that the heat of the candle melts the wax. By these means, the principle of the solution
of bodies by heat, will be imprinted upon his memory; and you may now enlarge his ideas of
solution.

When a lump of sugar is put into a dish of hot tea, a child sees that it becomes less and less,
till at last it disappears. What has become of the sugar? Your pupil will say that it is melted
by the heat of the tea: but if it be put into cold tea, or cold water, he will find that it
dissolves, though more slowly. You should then show him some fine sand, some clay, and chalk,
thrown into water; and he will perceive the difference between mechanical mixture and diffusion,
or chemical mixture. Chemical mixture, as that of sugar in water, depends upon the attraction
that subsists between the parts of the solid and fluid which are combined. Mechanical mixture
is only the suspension of the parts of a solid in a fluid. When fine sand, chalk, or clay,
are put into water, the water continues for some time turbid or muddy; but by degrees the sand,
&c. falls to the bottom, and the water becomes clear. In the chemical mixture of sugar and
water, there is no muddiness, the fluid is clear and transparent, even whilst it is stirred,
and when it is at rest, there is no sediment, the sugar is joined with the water; a new, fluid
substance, is formed out of the two simple bodies sugar and water, and though the parts which
compose the mixture are not discernible to the eye, yet they are perceptible by the taste.

After he has observed the mixture, the child should be asked, whether he knows any method by
which he can separate the sugar from the water. In the boiling of a kettle of water, he has
seen the steam which issues from the mouth of the vessel; he knows that the steam is formed
by the heat from the fire, which joining with the water drives its parts further asunder, and
makes it take another form, that of vapour or steam. He may apply this knowledge to the separation
of the sugar and water; he may turn the water into steam, and the sugar will be left in the
vessel in a solid form. If, instead of evaporating the water, the boy had added a greater quantity
of sugar to the mixture, he would have seen, that after a certain time, the water would have
dissolved no more of the sugar; the superfluous sugar would fall to the bottom of the vessel
as the sand had done: the pupil should then be told that the liquid is saturated with the solid.

By these simple experiments, a child may acquire a general knowledge of solution, evaporation,
and saturation, without the formality of a lecture, or the apparatus of a chemist. In all your
attempts to instruct him in chemistry, the greatest care should be taken that he should completely
understand one experiment, before you proceed to another. The common metaphorical expression,
that the mind should have time to digest the food which it receives, is founded upon fact and
observation.

Our pupil should see the solution of a variety of substances in fluids, as salt in water; marble,
chalk, or alkalies, in acids; and camphire in spirits of wine: this last experiment he may
try by himself, as it is not dangerous. Certainly many experiments are dangerous, and therefore
unfit for children; but others may be selected, which they may safely try without any assistance;
and the dangerous experiments may, when they are necessary, be shown to them by some careful
person. Their first experiments should be such as they can readily execute, and of which the
result may probably be successful: this success will please and interest the pupils, and will
encourage them to perseverance.

A child may have some spirit of wine and some camphire given to him; the camphire will dissolve
in the spirit of wine, till the spirit is saturated; but then he will be at a loss how to separate
them again. To separate them, he must pour into the mixture a considerable quantity of water;
he will immediately see the liquor, which was transparent, become muddy and white: this is
owing to the separation of the camphire from the spirit; the camphire falls to the bottom of
the vessel in the form of a curd. If the child had weighed the camphire, both before and after
its solution, he would have found the result nearly the same. He should be informed, that this
chemical operation (for technical terms should now be used) is called precipitation: the substance
that is separated from the mixture by the introduction of another body, is cast down, or precipitated
from the mixture. In this instance, the spirit of wine attracted the camphire, and therefore
dissolved it. When the water was poured in, the spirit of wine attracted the water more strongly
than it did the camphire; the camphire being let loose, fell to the bottom of the vessel.

The pupil has now been shown two methods, by which a solid may be separated from a fluid in
which it has been dissolved.

A still should now be produced, and the pupil should be instructed in the nature of distillation.
By experiments he will learn the difference between the volatility of different bodies; or,
in other words, he will learn that some are made fluid, or are turned into vapour, by a greater
or less degree of heat than others. The degrees of heat should be shown to him by the thermometer,
and the use of the thermometer, and its nature, should be explained. As the pupil already knows
that most bodies expand by heat, he will readily understand, that an increase of heat extends
the mercury in the bulb of the thermometer, which, having no other space for its expansion,
rises in the small glass tube; and that the degree of heat to which it is exposed, is marked
by the figures on the scale of the instrument.

The business of distillation, is to separate the more volatile from the less volatile of two
bodies. The whole mixture is put into a vessel, under which there is fire: the most volatile
liquor begins first to turn into vapour, and rises into a higher vessel, which, being kept
cold by water or snow, condenses the evaporated fluid; after it has been condensed, it drops
into another vessel. In the experiment that the child has just tried, after having separated
the camphire from the spirit of wine by precipitation, he may separate the spirit from the
water by distillation. When the substance that rises, or that is separated from other bodies
by heat, is a solid, or when what is collected after the operation, is solid, the process is
not called distillation, but sublimation.

Our pupil may next be made acquainted with the general qualities of acids and alkalies. For
instructing him in this part of chemistry, definition should as much as possible be avoided;
example, and occular demonstration, should be pursued. Who would begin to explain by words
the difference between an acid and an alkali, when these can be shown by experiments upon the
substances themselves? The first great difference which is perceptible between an acid and
an alkali, is their taste. Let a child have a distinct perception of the difference of their
tastes; let him be able to distinguish them when his eyes are shut; let him taste the strongest
of each so as not to hurt him, and when he has once acquired distinct notions of the pungent
taste of an alkali, and of the sour taste of an acid, he will never forget the difference.
He must afterwards see the effects of an acid and alkali on the blue colour of vegetables at
separate times, and not on the same day; by these means he will more easily remember the experiments,
and he will not confound their different results. The blue colour of vegetables is turned red
by acids, and green by alkalies. Let your pupil take a radish, and scrape off the blue part
into water; it should be left for some time, until the water becomes of a blue colour: let
him pour some of this liquor into two glasses; add vinegar or lemon juice to one of them, and
the liquor will become red; dissolve some alkali in water, and pour this into the other glass,
and the dissolved radish will become green. If into the red mixture alkali be poured, the colour
will change into green; and if into the liquor which was made green, acid be poured, the colour
will change to red: thus alternately you may pour acid or alkali, and produce a red or green
colour successively. Paper stained with the blue colour of vegetables, is called test paper;
this is changed by the least powerful of the acids or alkalies, and will, therefore, be peculiarly
useful in the first experiments of our young pupils. A child should for safety use the weakest
acids in his first trials, but he should be shown that the effects are similar, whatever acids
we employ; only the colour will be darker when we make use of the strong, than when we use
the weak acids. By degrees the pupil should be accustomed to employ the strong acids; such
as the vitriolic, the nitric, and the muriatic, which three are called fossil acids, to distinguish
them from the vegetable, or weaker acids. We may be permitted to advise the young chemist to
acquire the habit of wiping the neck of the vessel out of which he pours any strong acid, as
the drops of the liquor will not then burn his hand when he takes hold of the bottle; nor will
they injure the table upon which he is at work. This custom, trivial as it may seem, is of
advantage, as it gives an appearance of order, and of ease, and steadiness, which are all necessary
in trying chemical experiments. The little pupil may be told, that the custom which we have
just mentioned, is the constant practice of the great chemist, Dr. Black.

We should take care how we first use the term salt in speaking to children, lest they should
acquire indistinct ideas: he should be told, that the kind of salt which he eats is not the
only salt in the world; he may be put in mind of the kind of salts which he has, perhaps, smelt
in smelling-bottles; and he should be further told, that there are a number of earthy, alkaline,
and metallic salts, with which he will in time become acquainted.

When an acid is put upon an alkali, or upon limestone, chalk, or marle, a bubbling may be observed,
and a noise is heard; a child should be told, that this is called effervescence. After some
time the effervescence ceases, and the limestone, &c. is dissolved in the acid. This effervescence,
the child should be informed, arises from the escape of a considerable quantity of a particular
sort of air, called fixed air, or carbonic acid gas. In the solution of the lime in the acid,
the lime and acid have an attraction for one another; but as the present mixture has no attraction
for the gas, it escapes, and in rising, forms the bubbling or effervescence. This may be proved
to a child, by showing him, that if an acid is poured upon caustic lime (lime which has had
this gas taken from it by fire) there will be no effervescence.

There are various other chemical experiments with which children may amuse themselves; they
may be employed in analyzing marle, or clays; they may be provided with materials for making
ink or soap. It should be pointed out to them, that the common domestic and culinary operations
of making butter and cheese, baking, brewing, &c. are all chemical processes. We hope the reader
will not imagine, that we have in this slight sketch pretended to point out the best experiments
which can be devised for children; we have only offered a few of the simplest which occurred
to us, that parents may not, at the conclusion of this chapter, exclaim, "What is to be done?
How are we to begin? What experiments are suited to children? If we knew, our children should
try them."

It is of little consequence what particular experiment is selected for the first; we only wish
to show, that the minds of children may be turned to this subject; and that, by accustoming
them to observation, we give them not only the power of learning what has been already discovered,
but of adding, as they grow older, something to the general stock of human knowledge.

CHAPTER XIX.

ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE EDUCATION.

The anxious parent, after what has been said concerning tasks and classical literature, will
inquire whether the whole plan of education recommended in the following pages, is intended
to relate to public or to private education. It is intended to relate to both. It is not usual
to send children to school before they are eight or nine years old: our first object is to
show how education may be conducted to that age in such a manner, that children may be well
prepared for the acquisition of all the knowledge usually taught at schools, and may be perfectly
free from many of the faults that pupils sometimes have acquired before they are sent to any
public seminary. It is obvious, that public preceptors would be saved much useless labour and
anxiety, were parents to take some pains in the previous instruction of their children; and
more especially, if they were to prevent them from learning a taste for total idleness, or
habits of obstinacy and of falsehood, which can scarcely be conquered by the utmost care and
vigilance. We can assure parents, from experience, that if they pursue steadily a proper plan
with regard to the understanding and the moral habits, they will not have much trouble with
the education of their children after the age we have mentioned, as long as they continue to
instruct them at home; and if they send them to public schools, their superiority in intellect
and in conduct will quickly appear. Though we have been principally attentive to all the circumstances
which can be essential to the management of young people during the first nine or ten years
of their lives, we have by no means confined our observations to this period alone; but we
have endeavoured to lay before parents a general view of the human mind (as far as it relates
to our subject) of proper methods of teaching, and of the objects of rational instruction--so
that they may extend the principles which we have laid down, through all the succeeding periods
of education, and may apply them as it may best suit their peculiar situations, or their peculiar
wishes. We are fully conscious, that we have executed but very imperfectly even our own design;
that experimental education is yet but in its infancy, and that boundless space for improvement
remains; but we flatter ourselves, that attentive parents and preceptors will consider with
candour the practical assistance which is offered to them, especially as we have endeavoured
to express our opinions without dogmatical presumption, and without the illiberal exclusion
of any existing institutions or prevailing systems. People who, even with the best intentions,
attack with violence any of these, and who do not consider what is practicable, as well as
what ought to be done, are not likely to persuade, or to convince mankind to increase the general
sum of happiness, or their own portion of felicity. Those who really desire to be of service
to society, should point out decidedly, but with temperate indulgence for the feelings and
opinions of others, whatever appears to them absurd or reprehensible in any prevailing customs:
having done this, they will rest in the persuasion that what is most reasonable, will ultimately
prevail.

Mankind, at least the prudent and rational part of mankind, have an aversion to pull down,
till they have a moral certainty that they can build up a better edifice than that which has
been destroyed. Would you, says an eminent writer, convince me, that the house I live in is
a bad one, and would you persuade me to quit it; build a better in my neighbourhood; I shall
be very ready to go into it, and shall return you my very sincere thanks. Till another house
be ready, a wise man will stay in his old one, however inconvenient its arrangement, however
seducing the plans of the enthusiastic projector. We do not set up for projectors, or reformers:
we wish to keep steadily in view the actual state of things, as well as our own hopes of progressive
improvement; and to seize and combine all that can be immediately serviceable: all that can
assist, without precipitating improvements. Every well informed parent, and every liberal school-master,
must be sensible, that there are many circumstances in the management of public education which
might be condemned with reason; that too much time is sacrificed to the study of the learned
languages; that too little attention is paid to the general improvement of the understanding
and formation of the moral character; that a school-master cannot pay attention to the temper
or habits of each of his numerous scholars; and that parents, during that portion of the year
which their children spend with them, are not sufficiently solicitous to co-operate with the
views of the school-master; so that the public is counteracted by the private education. These,
and many other things, we have heard objected to schools; but what are we to put in the place
of schools? How are vast numbers who are occupied themselves in public or professional pursuits,
how are men in business or in trade, artists or manufacturers, to educate their families, when
they have not time to attend to them; when they may not think themselves perfectly prepared
to undertake the classical instruction and entire education of several boys; and when, perhaps,
they may not be in circumstances to engage the assistance of such a preceptor as they could
approve? It is obvious, that if in such situations parents were to attempt to educate their
children at home, they would harass themselves, and probably spoil their pupils irrecoverably.
It would, therefore, be in every respect impolitic and cruel to disgust those with public schools,
who have no other resource for the education of their families. There is another reason which
has perhaps operated upon many in the middle ranks of life unperceived, and which determines
them in favour of public education. Persons of narrow fortune, or persons who have acquired
wealth in business, are often desirous of breeding up their sons to the liberal professions:
and they are conscious that the company, the language, and the style of life, which their children
would be accustomed to at home, are beneath what would be suited to their future professions.
Public schools efface this rusticity, and correct the faults of provincial dialect: in this
point of view they are highly advantageous. We strongly recommend it to such parents to send
their children to large public schools, to Rugby, Eton, or Westminster; not to any small school;
much less to one in their own neighbourhood. Small schools are apt to be filled with persons
of nearly the same stations, and out of the same neighbourhood: from this circumstance, they
contribute to perpetuate uncouth antiquated idioms, and many of those obscure prejudices which
cloud the intellect in the future business of life.

Whilst we admit the necessity which compels the largest portion of society to prefer public
seminaries of education, it is incumbent upon us to caution parents from expecting that the
moral character, the understandings, or the tempers of their children, should be improved at
large schools; there the learned languages, we acknowledge, are successfully taught. Many satisfy
themselves with the assertion, that public education is the least troublesome, that a boy once
sent to school is settled for several years of life, and will require only short returns of
parental care twice a year at the holydays. It is hardly to be supposed, that those who think
in this manner, should have paid any anxious, or at least any judicious attention to the education
of their children, previously to sending them to school. It is not likely that they should
be very solicitous about the commencement of an education which they never meant to finish:
they would think, that what could be done during the first few years of life, is of little
consequence; that children from four to seven years old are too young to be taught; and that
a school would speedily supply all deficiencies, and correct all those faults which begin at
that age to be troublesome at home. Thus to a public school, as to a general infirmary for
mental disease, all desperate subjects are sent, as the last resource. They take with them
the contagion of their vices, which quickly runs through the whole tribe of their companions,
especially amongst those who happen to be nearly of their own age, whose sympathy peculiarly
exposes them to the danger of infection. We are often told, that as young people have the strongest
sympathy with each other, they will learn most effectually from each other's example. They
do learn quickly from example, and this is one of the dangers of a public school: a danger
which is not necessary, but incidental; a danger against which no school-master can possibly
guard, but which parents can, by the previous education of the pupils, prevent. Boys are led,
driven, or carried to school; and in a school-room they first meet with those who are to be
their fellow prisoners. They do not come with fresh unprejudiced minds to commence their course
of social education; they bring with them all the ideas and habits which they have already
learned at their respective homes. It is highly unreasonable to expect, that all these habits
should be reformed by a public preceptor. If he had patience, how could he have time for such
an undertaking? Those who have never attempted to break a pupil of any one bad habit, have
no idea of the degree of patience requisite to success. We once heard an officer of dragoons
assert, that he would rather break twenty horses of their bad habits, than one man of his.
The proportionate difficulty of teaching boys, may be easily calculated.

It is sometimes asserted, that the novelty of a school life, the change of situation, alters
the habits, and forms in boys a new character. Habits of eight or nine years standing, cannot
be instantaneously, perhaps can never be radically, destroyed; they will mix themselves imperceptibly
with the new ideas which are planted in their minds, and though these may strike the eye by
the rapidity of their growth, the others, which have taken a strong root, will not easily be
dispossessed of the soil. In this new character, as it is called, there will, to a discerning
eye, appear a strong mixture of the old disposition. The boy, who at home lived with his father's
servants, and was never taught to have any species of literature, will not acquire a taste
for it at school, merely by being compelled to learn his lessons; the boy, who at home was
suffered to be the little tyrant of a family, will, it is true, be forced to submit to superior
strength or superior numbers at school;[29] but does it improve the temper to practise alternately
the habits of a tyrant and a slave? The lesson which experience usually teaches to the temper
of a school-boy, is, that strength, and power, and cunning, will inevitably govern in society:
as to reason, it is out of the question, it would be hissed or laughed out of the company.
With respect to social virtues, they are commonly amongst school-boys so much mixed with party
spirit, that they mislead even the best dispositions. A boy at home, whose pleasures are all
immediately connected with the idea of self, will not feel a sudden enlargement of mind from
entering a public school. He will, probably, preserve his selfish character in his new society;
or, even suppose he catches that of his companions, the progress is not great in moral education
from selfishness to spirit of party: the one is a despicable, the other a dangerous, principle
of action. It has been observed, that what we are when we are twenty, depends on what we were
when we were ten years old. What a young man is at college, depends upon what he was at school;
and what he is at school, depends upon what he was before he went to school. In his father's
house, the first important lessons, those which decide his future abilities and character,
must be learned. We have repeated this idea, and placed it in different points of view, in
hopes that it will catch and fix the attention. Suppose that parents educated their children
well for the first eight or nine years of their lives, and then sent them all to public seminaries,
what a difference this must immediately make in public education: the boys would be disposed
to improve themselves with all the ardour which the most sanguine preceptor would desire; their
tutors would find that there was nothing to be unlearned; no habits of idleness to conquer;
no perverse stupidity would provoke them; no capricious contempt of application would appear
in pupils of the quickest abilities. The moral education could then be made a part of the preceptor's
care, with some hopes of success; the pupils would all have learned the first necessary moral
principles and habits; they would, consequently, be all fit companions for each other; in each
other's society they would continue to be governed by the same ideas of right and wrong by
which they had been governed all their lives; they would not have any new character to learn;
they would improve, by mixing with numbers, in the social virtues, without learning party spirit;
and though they would love their companions, they would not, therefore, combine together to
treat their instructers as pedagogues and tyrants. This may be thought an Utopian idea of a
school; indeed it is very improbable, that out of the numbers of parents who send their children
to large schools, many should suddenly be much moved, by any thing that we can say, to persuade
them to take serious trouble in their previous instruction. But much may be effected by gradual
attempts. Ten well educated boys, sent to a public seminary at nine or ten years old, would,
probably, far surpass their competitors in every respect; they would inspire others with so
much emulation, would do their parents and preceptors so much credit, that numbers would eagerly
inquire into the causes of their superiority; and these boys would, perhaps, do more good by
their example, than by their actual acquirements. We do not mean to promise, that a boy judiciously
educated, shall appear at ten years old a prodigy of learning; far from it: we should not even
estimate his capacity, or the chain of his future progress, by the quantity of knowledge stored
in his memory, by the number of Latin lines he had got by rote, by his expertness in repeating
the rules of his grammar, by his pointing out a number of places readily in a map, or even
by his knowing the latitude and longitude of all the capital cities in Europe; these are all
useful articles of knowledge: but they are not the test of a good education. We should rather,
if we were to examine a boy of ten years old, for the credit of his parents, produce proofs
of his being able to reason accurately, of his quickness in invention, of his habits of industry
and application, of his having learned to generalize his ideas, and to apply his observations
and his principles: if we found that he had learned all, or any of these things, we should
be in little pain about grammar, or geography, or even Latin; we should be tolerably certain
that he would not long remain deficient in any of these; we should know that he would overtake
and surpass a competitor who had only been technically taught, as certainly as that the giant
would overtake the panting dwarf, who might have many miles the start of him in the race. We
do not mean to say, that a boy should not be taught the principles of grammar, and some knowledge
of geography, at the same time that his understanding is cultivated in the most enlarged manner:
these objects are not incompatible, and we particularly recommend it to parents who intend
to send their children to school, early to give them confidence in themselves, by securing
the rudiments of literary education; otherwise their pupils, with a real superiority of understanding,
may feel depressed, and may, perhaps, be despised, when they mix at a public school with numbers
who will estimate their abilities merely by their proficiency in particular studies.

Mr. Frend,[30] in recommending the study of arithmetic for young people, has very sensibly
remarked, that boys bred up in public schools, are apt to compare themselves with each other
merely as classical scholars; and, when they afterwards go into the world excellent Greek and
Latin scholars, are much astonished to perceive, that many of the companions whom they had
under-valued at school, get before them when they come to actual business, and to active life.
Many, in the pursuit of their classical studies, have neglected all other knowledge, especially
that of arithmetic, that useful, essential branch of knowledge, without which neither the abstract
sciences nor practical arts can be taught. The precision which the habit of applying the common
rules of arithmetic, gives to the understanding, is highly advantageous, particularly to young
people of vivacity, or, as others would say, of genius. The influence which the habit of estimating
has upon that part of the moral character called prudence, is of material consequence. We shall
further explain upon this subject when we speak of the means of teaching arithmetic and reasoning
to children; we only mention the general ideas here, to induce intelligent parents to attend
early to these particulars. If they mean to send their children to public classical schools,
it must be peculiarly advantageous to teach them early the rudiments of arithmetic, and to
give them the habit of applying their knowledge in the common business of life. We forbear
to enumerate other useful things, which might easily be taught to young people before they
leave home, because we do not wish to terrify with the apprehension, that a perplexing variety
of things are to be taught. One thing well taught, is better than a hundred taught imperfectly.

The effect of the pains which are taken in the first nine or ten years of a child's life, may
not be apparent immediately to the view, but it will gradually become visible. To careless
observers, two boys of nine years old, who have been very differently educated, may appear
nearly alike in abilities, in temper, and in the promise of future character. Send them both
to a large public school, let them be placed in the same new situation, and exposed to the
same trials, the difference will then appear: the difference in a few years will be such as
to strike every eye, and people will wonder what can have produced in so short a time such
an amazing change. In the Hindoo art of dyeing, the same liquors communicate different colours
to particular spots, according to the several bases previously applied: to the ignorant eye,
no difference is discernible in the ground, nor can the design be distinctly traced till the
air, and light, and open exposure, bring out the bright and permanent colours to the wondering
eye of the spectator.

Besides bestowing some attention upon early education, parents, who send their children to
school, may much assist the public preceptor by judicious conduct towards children during that
portion of the year which is usually spent at home.[31] Mistaken parental fondness, delights
to make the period of time which children spend at home, as striking a contrast as possible
with that which they pass at school. The holydays are made a jubilee, or rather resemble the
Saturnalia. Even if parents do not wish to represent a school-master as a tyrant, they are
by no means displeased to observe, that he is not the friend or favourite of their children.
They put themselves in mean competition with him for their affection, instead of co-operating
with him in all his views for their advantage. How is it possible, that any master can long
retain the wish or the hope of succeeding in any plan of education, if he perceives that his
pupils are but partially under his government; if his influence over their minds be counteracted
from time to time by the superior influence of their parents? An influence which he must not
wish to destroy. To him is left the power to punish, it is true; but parents reserve to themselves
the privilege to reward. The ancients did not suppose, that even Jupiter could govern the world
without the command of pain and pleasure. Upon the vases near his throne, depended his influence
over mankind.

And what are these holyday delights? And in what consists parental rewards? In dissipation
and idleness. With these are consequently associated the idea of happiness and the name of
pleasure; the name is often sufficient, without the reality. During the vacation, children
have a glimpse of what is called the world; and then are sent back to their prison with heads
full of visions of liberty, and with a second-sight of the blessed lives which they are to
lead when they have left school for ever. What man of sense, who has studied the human mind,
who knows that the success of any plan of education must depend upon the concurrence of every
person, and every circumstance, for years together, to the same point, would undertake any
thing more than the partial instruction of pupils, whose leading associations and habits must
be perpetually broken? When the work of school is undone during the holydays, what hand could
have the patience perpetually to repair the web?

During the vacations spent at home, children may be made extremely happy in the society and
in the affections of their friends, but they need not be taught, that idleness is pleasure:
on the contrary, occupation should, by all possible methods, be rendered agreeable to them;
their school acquisitions, their knowledge and taste, should be drawn out in conversation,
and they should be made to feel the value of what they have been taught; by these means, there
would be some connection, some unity of design, preserved in their education. Their school-masters
and tutors should never become the theme of insipid ridicule; nor should parents ever put their
influence in competition with that of a preceptor: on the contrary, his pupils should uniformly
perceive, that from his authority there is no appeal, except to the superior power of reason,
which should be the avowed arbiter to which all should be submitted.

Some of the dangerous effects of that mixed society at schools, of which we have complained,
may be counteracted by the judicious conduct of parents during the time which children spend
at home. A better view of society, more enlarged ideas of friendship and of justice, may be
given to young people, and the vile principle of party spirit may be treated with just contempt
and ridicule. Some standard, some rules may be taught to them, by which they may judge of character
independently of prejudice, or childish prepossession.

    "I do not like you, Doctor Fell;
    The reason why, I cannot tell:
    But this I know full well,
    I do not like you, Doctor Fell"--

is an exact specimen of the usual mode of reasoning, of the usual method in which an ill educated
school-boy expresses his opinion and feelings about all persons, and all things. "The reason
why," should always be inquired whenever children express preference or aversion.

To connect the idea of childhood with that of inferiority and contempt, is unjust and impolitic;
it should not be made a reproach to young people to be young, nor should it be pointed out
to them, that when they are some years older, they will be more respected; the degree of respect
which they really command, whether in youth or age, will depend upon their own conduct, their
knowledge, and their powers of being useful and agreeable to others. If they are convinced
of this, children will not at eight years old long to be fifteen, or at fifteen to be one and
twenty; proper subordination would be preserved, and the scale of happiness would not have
a forced and false connection with that of age. If parents did not first excite foolish wishes
in the minds of their children, and then imprudently promise that these wishes shall be gratified
at certain periods of their existence, children would not be impatient to pass over the years
of childhood; those years which idle boys wish to pass over as quickly as possible, men without
occupation regret as the happiest of their existence. To a child, who has been promised that
he shall put on manly apparel on his next birthday, the pace of time is slow and heavy until
that happy era arrive. Fix the day when a boy shall leave school, and he wishes instantly to
mount the chariot, and lash the horses of the sun. Nor when he enters the world, will his restless
spirit be satisfied; the first step gained, he looks anxiously forward to the height of manly
elevation,

    "And the brisk minor pants for twenty-one"

These juvenile anticipations diminish the real happiness of life; those who are in continual
expectation, never enjoy the present; the habit of expectation is dangerous to the mind, it
suspends all industry, all voluntary exertion. Young men, who early acquire this habit, find
existence insipid to them without the immediate stimuli of hope and fear: no matter what the
object is, they must have something to sigh for; a curricle, a cockade, or an opera-dancer.

Much may be done by education to prevent this boyish restlessness. Parents should refrain from
those imprudent promises, and slight inuendoes, which the youthful imagination always misunderstands
and exaggerates.--Never let the moment in which a young man quits a seminary of education,
be represented as a moment in which all instruction, labour, and restraints, cease. The idea,
that he must restrain and instruct himself, that he must complete his own education, should
be excited in a young man's mind; nor should he be suffered to imagine that his education is
finished, because he has attained to some given age.

When a common school-boy bids adieu to that school which he has been taught to consider as
a prison, he exults in his escape from books and masters, and from all the moral and intellectual
discipline, to which he imagines that it is the peculiar disgrace and misery of childhood to
be condemned. He is impatient to be thought a man, but his ideas of the manly character are
erroneous, consequently his ambition will only mislead him. From his companions whilst at school,
from his father's acquaintance, and his father's servants, with whom he has been suffered to
consort during the vacations, he has collected imperfect notions of life, fashion, and society.
These do not mix well in his mind with the examples and precepts of Greek and Roman virtue:
a temporary enthusiasm may have been kindled in his soul by the eloquence of antiquity; but,
for want of sympathy, this enthusiasm necessarily dies away. His heroes are not the heroes
of the present times; the maxims of his sages are not easily introduced into the conversation
of the day. At the tea-table he now seldom hears even the name of Plato; and he often blushes
for not knowing a line from a popular English poet, whilst he could repeat a cento from Horace,
Virgil, and Homer; or an antistrophe from Æschylus or Euripides. He feels ashamed to produce
the knowledge he has acquired, because he has not learned sufficient address to produce it
without pedantry. On his entrance into the world, there remains in his mind no grateful, no
affectionate, no respectful remembrance of those under whose care he has passed so many years
of his life. He has escaped from the restraints imposed by his school-master, and the connection
is dissolved for ever.

But when a son separates from his father, if he has been well educated, he wishes to continue
his own education: the course of his ideas is not suddenly broken; what he has been, joins
immediately with what he is to be; his knowledge applies to real life, it is such as he can
use in all companies; there is no sudden metamorphosis in any of the objects of his ambition;
the boy and man are the same individual. Pleasure will not influence him merely by her name,
or by the contrast of her appearance with the rigid discipline of scholastic learning; he will
feel the difference between pleasure and happiness, and his early taste for domestic life will
remain or return upon his mind. His old precepts and new motives are not at war with each other;
his experience will confirm his education, and external circumstances will call forth his latent
virtues. When he looks back, he can trace the gradual growth of his knowledge; when he looks
forward, it is with the delightful hope of progressive improvement. A desire in some degree
to repay the care, to deserve the esteem, to fulfil the animating prophecies, or to justify
the fond hopes of the parent who has watched over his education, is one of the strongest motives
to an ingenuous young man; it is an incentive to exertion in every honourable pursuit. A son
who has been judiciously and kindly educated, will feel the value of his father's friendship.
The perception, that no man can be more entirely interested in every thing that concerns him,
the idea, that no one more than his father can share in his glory or in his disgrace, will
press upon his heart, will rest upon his understanding. Upon these ideas, upon this common
family interest, the real strength of the connection between a father and his son depends.
No public preceptor can have the same advantages; his connection with his pupil is not necessarily
formed to last.

After having spoken with freedom, but we hope with moderation, of public schools, we may, perhaps,
be asked our opinion of universities. Are universities the most splendid repositories of learning?
We are not afraid to declare an opinion in the negative. Smith, in his Wealth of Nations, has
stated some objections to them, we think, with unanswerable force of reasoning. We do not,
however, wish to destroy what we do not entirely approve. Far be that insanity from our minds
which would, like Orlando, tear up the academic groves; the madness of innovation is as destructive
as the bigotry of ancient establishments. The learning and the views of the rising century
must have different objects from those of the wisdom and benevolence of Alfred, Balsham, or
Wolsey; and, without depreciating or destroying the magnificence or establishments of universities,
may not their institutions be improved? May not their splendid halls echo with other sounds
than the exploded metaphysics of the schools? And may not other learning be as much rewarded
and esteemed as pure latinity?

We must here distinctly point out, that young men designed for the army or the navy, should
not be educated in private families. The domestic habits, the learned leisure of private education,
are unsuited to them; it would be absurd to waste many years in teaching them the elegancies
of classic literature, which can probably be of no essential use to them; it would be cruel
to give them a nice and refined choice of right and wrong, when it will be their professional
duty to act under the command of others; when implicit, prompt, unquestioning obedience must
be their first military virtue. Military academies, where the sciences practically essential
to the professions are taught, must be the best situations for all young sailors and soldiers;
strict institution is the best education for them. We do not here inquire how far these professions
are necessary in society; it is obvious, that in the present state of European cultivation,
soldiers and sailors are indispensable to every nation. We hope, however, that a taste for
peace may, at some future period in the history of the world, succeed to the passion for military
glory; and in the mean time, we may safely recommend it to parents, never to trust a young
man designed for a soldier, to the care of a philosopher, even if it were possible to find
one who would undertake the charge.

We hope that we have shown ourselves the friends of the public preceptor, that we have pointed
out the practicable means of improving public institutions by parental care and parental co-operation.
But, until such a meliorating plan shall actually have been carried into effect, we cannot
hesitate to assert, that even when the abilities of the parent are inferiour to those of the
public preceptor, the means of ensuring success preponderate in favour of private education.
A father, who has time, talents, and temper, to educate his family, is certainly the best possible
preceptor; and his reward will be the highest degree of domestic felicity. If, from his situation,
he is obliged to forego this reward, he may select some man of literature, sense, and integrity,
to whom he can confide his children. Opulent families should not think any reward too munificent
for such a private preceptor. Even in an economic point of view, it is prudent to calculate
how many thousands lavished on the turf, or lost at the gaming table, might have been saved
to the heirs of noble and wealthy families by a judicious education.

FOOTNOTES:

[29] V. Barne's Essay on public and private education. Manchester Society.

[30] V. Mr. Frend's Principles of Algebra.

[31] V. Williams's Lectures on Education.

CHAPTER XX.

ON FEMALE ACCOMPLISHMENTS, MASTERS, AND GOVERNESSES.

Some years ago, an opera dancer at Lyon's, whose charms were upon the wane, applied to an English
gentleman for a recommendation to some of his friends in England, as a governess for young
ladies. "Do you doubt," said the lady (observing that the gentleman was somewhat confounded
by the easy assurance of her request) "do you doubt my capability? Do I not speak good Parisian
French? Have I any provincial accent? I will undertake to teach the language grammatically.
And for music and dancing, without vanity, may I not pretend to teach them to any young person?"
The lady's excellence in all these particulars was unquestionable. She was beyond dispute a
highly accomplished woman. Pressed by her forcible interrogatories, the gentleman was compelled
to hint, that an English mother of a family might be inconveniently inquisitive about the private
history of a person who was to educate her daughters. "Oh," said the lady, "I can change my
name; and, at my age, nobody will make further inquiries."

Before we can determine how far this lady's pretensions were ill founded, and before we can
exactly decide what qualifications are most desirable in a governess, we must form some estimate
of the positive and relative value of what are called accomplishments.

We are not going to attack any of them with cynical asperity, or with the ambition to establish
any new dogmatical tenets in the place of old received opinions. It can, however, do no harm
to discuss this important subject with proper reverence and humility. Without alarming those
mothers, who declare themselves above all things anxious for the rapid progress of their daughters
in every fashionable accomplishment, it may be innocently asked, what price such mothers are
willing to pay for these advantages. Any price within the limits of our fortune! they will
probably exclaim.

There are other standards by which we can measure the value of objects, as well as by money.
"Fond mother, would you, if it were in your power, accept of an opera dancer for your daughter's
governess, upon condition that you should live to see that daughter dance the best minuet at
a birth-night ball?"

"Not for the world," replies the mother. "Do you think I would hazard my daughter's innocence
and reputation, for the sake of seeing her dance a good minuet? Shocking! Absurd! What can
you mean by such an outrageous question?"

"To fix your attention. Where the mind has not precisely ascertained its wishes, it is sometimes
useful to consider extremes; by determining what price you will not pay, we shall at length
ascertain the value which you set upon the object. Reputation and innocence, you say, you will
not, upon any account, hazard. But would you consent that your daughter should, by universal
acclamation, be proclaimed the most accomplished woman in Europe, upon the simple condition,
that she should pass her days in a nunnery?"

"I should have no right to make such a condition; domestic happiness I ought certainly to prefer
to public admiration for my daughter. Her accomplishments would be of little use to her, if
she were to be shut up from the world: who is to be the judge of them in a nunnery?"

"I will say no more about the nunnery. But would not you, as a good mother, consent to have
your daughter turned into an automaton for eight hours in every day for fifteen years, for
the promise of hearing her, at the end of that time, pronounced the first private performer
at the most fashionable and most crowded concert in London?"

"Eight hours a day for fifteen years, are too much. No one need practise so much to become
the first performer in England."

"That is another question. You have not told me whether you would sacrifice so much of your
daughter's existence for such an object, supposing that you could obtain it at no other price."

"For one concert?" says the hesitating mother; "I think it would be too high a price. Yet I
would give any thing to have my daughter play better than any one in England. What a distinction!
She would be immediately taken notice of in all companies! She might get into the first circles
in London! She would want neither beauty nor fortune to recommend her! She would be a match
for any man, who has any taste for music! And music is universally admired, even by those who
have the misfortune to have no taste for it. Besides, it is such an elegant accomplishment
in itself! Such a constant source of innocent amusement! Putting every thing else out of the
question, I should wish my daughter to have every possible accomplishment, because accomplishments
are such charming resources for young women; they keep them out of harm's way; they make a
vast deal of their idle time pass so pleasantly to themselves and others! This is my chief
reason for liking them."

Here are so many reasons brought together at once, along with the chief reason, that they are
altogether unanswerable; we must separate, class, and consider them one at a time. Accomplishments,
it seems, are valuable, as being the objects of universal admiration. Some accomplishments
have another species of value, as they are tickets of admission to fashionable company. Accomplishments
have another, and a higher species of value, as they are supposed to increase a young lady's
chance of a prize in the matrimonial lottery. Accomplishments have also a value as resources
against ennui, as they afford continual amusement and innocent occupation. This is ostensibly
their chief praise; it deserves to be considered with respect. False and odious must be that
philosophy which would destroy any one of the innocent pleasures of our existence. No reward
was thought too high for the invention of a new pleasure; no punishment would be thought too
severe for those who would destroy an old one. Women are peculiarly restrained in their situation,
and in their employments, by the customs of society: to diminish the number of these employments,
therefore, would be cruel; they should rather be encouraged, by all means, to cultivate those
tastes which can attach them to their home, and which can preserve them from the miseries of
dissipation. Every sedentary occupation must be valuable to those who are to lead sedentary
lives; and every art, however trifling in itself, which tends to enliven and embellish domestic
life, must be advantageous, not only to the female sex, but to society in general. As far as
accomplishments can contribute to all or any of these excellent purposes, they must be just
objects of attention in early education.

A number of experiments have already been tried; let us examine the result. Out of the prodigious
number of young women who learn music and drawing, for instance, how many are there, who, after
they become mistresses of their own time, and after they have the choice of their own amusements,
continue to practise these accomplishments for the pure pleasure of occupation? As soon as
a young lady is married, does she not frequently discover, that "she really has not leisure
to cultivate talents which take up so much time?" Does she not complain of the labour of practising
four or five hours a day to keep up her musical character? What motive has she for perseverance?
She is, perhaps, already tired of playing to all her acquaintance. She may really take pleasure
in hearing good music; but her own performance will not then please her ear so much as that
of many others. She will prefer the more indolent pleasure of hearing the best music that can
be heard for money at public concerts. She will then of course leave off playing, but continue
very fond of music. How often is the labour of years thus lost for ever!

Those who have excelled in drawing, do not appear to abandon the occupation so suddenly; it
does not demand such an inordinate quantity of time to keep up the talent; the exertion of
the imitative powers with apparent success, is agreeable; the employment is progressive, and,
therefore, the mind is carried on to complete what has been begun. Independently of all applause,
which may be expected for the performance, there is a pleasure in going on with the work. But
setting aside enthusiasm and habit, the probability that any sensible person will continue
to pursue a given employment, must depend, in a great measure, upon their own conviction of
its utility, or of its being agreeable to those whom they wish to please. The pleasure which
a lady's friends receive from her drawings, arises chiefly from the perception of their comparative
excellence. Comparative excellence is all to which gentlewomen artists usually pretend, all
to which they expect to attain; positive excellence is scarcely attained by one in a hundred.
Compared with the performances of other young ladies of their acquaintance, the drawings of
Miss X or Y may be justly considered as charming! admirable! and astonishing! But there are
few drawings by young ladies which can be compared with those of a professed artist. The wishes
of obliging friends are satisfied with a few drawings in handsome frames, to be hung up for
the young lady's credit; and when it is allowed amongst their acquaintance, that she draws
in a superior style, the purpose of this part of her education is satisfactorily answered.
We do not here speak of those few individuals who really excel in drawing, who have learnt
something more than the common routine which is usually learnt from a drawing master, who have
acquired an agreeable, talent, not for the mere purpose of exhibiting themselves, but for the
sake of the occupation it affords, and the pleasure it may give to their friends. We have the
pleasure of knowing some who exactly answer to this description, and who must feel themselves
distinct and honourable exceptions to these general observations.

From whatever cause it arises, we may observe, that after young women are settled in life,
their taste for drawing and music gradually declines. For this fact, we can appeal only to
the recollection of individuals. We may hence form some estimate of the real value which ought
to be put upon what are called accomplishments, considered as occupations. Hence we may also
conclude, that parents do not form their judgments from the facts which they see every day
in real life; or else may we not infer, that they deceive themselves as to their own motives;
and that, amongst the reasons which make them so anxious about the accomplishments of their
daughters, there are some secret motives more powerful than those which are usually openly
acknowledged?

It is admitted in the cabinet council of mothers, that some share of the value of accomplishments
depends upon the demand for them in the fashionable world. "A young lady," they say, "is nobody,
and nothing, without accomplishments; they are as necessary to her as a fortune: they are indeed
considered as part of her fortune, and sometimes are even found to supply the place of it.
Next to beauty, they are the best tickets of admission into society which she can produce;
and every body knows, that on the company she keeps, depends the chance of a young woman's
settling advantageously in the world."

To judge of what will please and attach men of superior sense and characters--we are not quite
certain that these are the men who are to be considered first, when we speak of a young lady's
settling advantageously in the world; but we will take this for granted--to judge of what will
please and attach men of superior sense and characters, we must observe their actual conduct
in life, and listen to their speculative opinions. Superficial accomplishments do not appear
to be the objects of their preference. In enumerating the perfections of his wife, or in retracing
the progress of his love, does a man of sense dwell upon his mistress's skill in drawing, or
dancing, or music? No. These, he tells you, are extremely agreeable talents, but they could
have never attached him; they are subordinate parts in her character; he is angry that you
can rank them amongst her perfections; he knows that a thousand women possess these accomplishments,
who have never touched his heart. He does not, perhaps, deny, that in Chloe, altogether, they
have power to please, but he does not think them essential to her power.

The opinion of women, who have seen a good deal of the world, is worth attending to upon this
subject; especially if we can obtain it when their passions are wholly uninterested in their
decision. Whatever may be the judgment of individuals concerning the character and politics
of the celebrated Madame Roland, her opinion as a woman of abilities, and a woman who had seen
a variety of life, will be thought deserving of attention. Her book was written at a time when
she was in daily expectation of death, when she could have no motive to conceal her real sentiments
upon any subject. She gives an account of her employments in prison, and, amongst others, mentions
music and drawing.

"I then employed myself in drawing till dinner time. I had so long been out of the habit of
using a pencil, that I could not expect to be very dexterous; but we commonly retain the power
of repeating with pleasure, or at least of attempting with ease, whatever we have successfully
practised in our youth. Therefore the study of the fine arts, considered as a part of female
education, should be attended to, much less with a view to the acquisition of superior talents,
than with a desire to give women a taste for industry, the habit of application, and a greater
variety of employments; for these assist us to escape from ennui, the most cruel disease of
civilized society; by these we are preserved from the dangers of vice, and even from those
seductions which are far more likely to lead us astray.

"I would not make my daughter a performer.[32] I remember, that my mother was afraid that I
should become a great musician, or that I should have devoted myself entirely to painting:
she wished that I should, above all other things, love the duties of my sex: that I should
be a good economist, a good mistress, as well as a good mother of a family. I wish my Eudora
to be able to accompany her voice agreeably on the harp. I wish that she may play agreeably
on the piano-forte; that she may know enough of drawing, to feel pleasure from the sight and
from the examination of the finest pictures of the great painters; that she may be able to
draw a flower that happens to please her; and that she may unite in her dress elegance and
simplicity. I should wish that her talents might be such, that they should neither excite the
admiration of others, nor inspire her with vanity; I should wish that she should please by
the general effect of her whole character, without ever striking any body with astonishment
at first sight; and that she should attach by her good qualities, rather than shine by her
accomplishments."

Women cannot foresee what may be the tastes of the individuals with whom they are to pass their
lives. Their own tastes should not, therefore, be early decided; they should, if possible,
be so educated that they may attain any talent in perfection which they may desire, or which
their circumstances may render necessary. If, for instance, a woman were to marry a man who
was fond of music, or who admired painting, she should be able to cultivate these talents for
his amusement and her own. If he be a man of sense and feeling, he will be more pleased with
the motive than with the thing that is actually done. But if it be urged, that all women cannot
expect to marry men of sense and feeling; and if we are told, that nevertheless they must look
to "an advantageous establishment," we must conclude, that men of rank and fortune are meant
by that comprehensive phrase. Another set of arguments must be used to those who speculate
on their daughters accomplishments in this line. They have, perhaps, seen some instances of
what they call success; they have seen some young women of their acquaintance, whose accomplishments
have attracted men of fortune superior to their own; consequently, maternal tenderness is awakened,
and many mothers are sanguine in their expectations of the effect of their daughters education.
But they forget that every body now makes the same reflections, that parents are, and have
been for some years, speculating in the same line; consequently, the market is likely to be
overstocked, and, of course, the value of the commodities must fall. Every young lady (and
every young woman is now a young lady) has some pretensions to accomplishments. She draws a
little; or she plays a little, or she speaks French a little. Even the blue-board boarding
schools, ridiculed by Miss Allscript in the Heiress, profess to perfect young ladies in some
or all of these necessary parts of education. Stop at any good inn on the London roads, and
you will probably find that the landlady's daughter can show you some of her own framed drawings,
can play a tune upon her spinnet, or support a dialogue in French of a reasonable length, in
the customary questions and answers. Now it is the practice in high life to undervalue, and
avoid as much as possible, every thing which descends to the inferiour classes of society.
The dress of to-day is unfashionable to-morrow, because every body wears it. The dress is not
preferred because it is pretty or useful, but because it is the distinction of well bred people.
In the same manner accomplishments have lost much of that value which they acquired from opinion,
since they have become common. They are now so common, that they cannot be considered as the
distinguishing characteristics of even a gentlewoman's education. The higher classes in life,
and those individuals who aim at distinction, now establish another species of monopoly, and
secure to themselves a certain set of expensive masters in music, drawing, dancing, &c. and
they endeavour to believe, and to make others believe, that no one can be well educated without
having served an apprenticeship of so many lessons under some of these privileged masters.
But it is in vain that they intrench themselves, they are pursued by the intrusive vulgar.
In a wealthy, mercantile nation, there is nothing which can be bought for money, which will
long continue to be an envied distinction. The hope of attaining to that degree of eminence
in the fine arts which really deserves celebrity, becomes every day more difficult to private
practitioners, because the number of competitors daily increases; and it is the interest of
masters to forward their pupils by every possible means. Both genius and perseverance must
now be united to obtain the prize of distinction; and how seldom are they found, or kept together,
in the common course of education!

Considering all these circumstances, is not there some reason to apprehend, that in a few years
the taste for several fashionable appendages of female education, may change, and that those
will consequently be treated with neglect, who have no other claim to public regard, than their
proficiency in what may, perhaps, then be thought vulgar or obsolete accomplishments? Our great
grandmothers distinguished themselves by truly substantial tent-work chairs and carpets, by
needle-work pictures of Solomon and the queen of Sheba. These were admirable in their day,
but their day is over; and these useful, ingenious, and laborious specimens of female talents,
are consigned to the garret, or they are produced but as curiosities, to excite wonder at the
strange patience and miserable destiny of former generations: the taste for tapestry and embroidery
is thus past; the long labours of the loom have ceased. Cloth-work, crape-work, chenille-work,
ribbon-work, wafer-work, with a long train of etceteras, have all passed away in our own memory;
yet these conferred much evanescent fame, and a proportional quantity of vain emulation. A
taste for drawing, or music, cannot be classed with any of these trifling performances; but
there are many faded drawings of the present generations, which cannot stand in competition
with the glowing and faithful colours of the silk and worsted of former times; and many of
the hours spent at a stammering harpsichord, might, surely, with full as much domestic advantage,
have been devoted to the embellishment of chairs and carpets. We hope that no one will so perversely
misunderstand us, as to infer from these remarks, that we desire to see the revival of old
tapestry work; or that we condemn the elegant accomplishments of music and drawing. We condemn
only the abuse of these accomplishments; we only wish that they should be considered as domestic
occupations, not as matters of competition, or of exhibition, nor yet as the means of attracting
temporary admiration. We are not afraid that any, who are really conscious of having acquired
accomplishments with these prudent and honourable views, should misapprehend what has been
said. Mediocrity may, perhaps, attempt to misrepresent our remarks, and may endeavour to make
it appear that we have attacked, and that we would discourage, every effort of female taste
and ingenuity in the fine arts; we cannot, therefore, be too explicit in disclaiming such illiberal
views.

We have not yet spoken of dancing, though it is one of the most admired of female accomplishments.
This evidently is an amusement, not an occupation; it is an agreeable exercise, useful to the
health, and advantageous, as it confers a certain degree of habitual ease and grace. Mr. Locke
seems to think, that it gives young people confidence in themselves when they come into company,
and that it is, therefore, expedient to teach children early to dance: but there are so many
other methods of inspiring young people with this confidence in themselves, that it appears
unnecessary to lay much stress upon this argument. If children live in good company, and see
constantly people with agreeable manners, they will acquire manners which the dancing master
does not always teach; and they will easily vary their forms of politeness with the fashion
of the day. Nobody comes into a room regularly as their dancing master taught them to make
their entrance; we should think a strict adherence to his lessons ridiculous and awkward in
well bred company; therefore much must be left to the discretion and taste of the pupil, after
the dancing master has made his last bow. Ease of manners is not always attained by those who
have been strictly disciplined by a Vestris, because the lessons are not always practised in
precisely the same circumstances in which they were learnt: this confuses and confounds the
pupils, and they rather lose than gain confidence in themselves, from perceiving that they
cannot immediately apply what they have been taught. But we need not expatiate upon this subject,
because there are few parents of good sense, in any rank of life, who will not perceive that
their daughter's manners cannot be formed or polished by a dancing-master. We are not to consider
dancing in a grave and moral light; it is an amusement much more agreeable to young people,
and much better suited to them in every respect, than cards, or silent assemblies of formal
visiters. It promotes cheerfulness, and prevents, in some measure, the habits of gossiping
conversation, and the love of scandal. So far we most willingly agree with its most vivacious
advocates, in its common eulogium. But this is not, we fear, saying enough. We see, or fancy
that we see, the sober matron lay down her carefully assorted cards upon the card-table, and
with dictatorial solemnity she pronounces, "That dancing is something more than an amusement;
that girls must learn to dance, because they must appear well in public; because the young
ladies who dance the best, are usually most taken notice of in public; most admired by the
other sex; most likely, in short, not only to-have their choice of the best partner in a ball
room, but sometimes of the best partner for life."

With submission to maternal authority, these arguments do not seem to be justified of late
years. Girls, who dance remarkably well, are, it is true, admired in a ball room, and followed,
perhaps, by those idle, thoughtless young men, who frequent public places merely for want of
something else to do. This race of beings are not particularly calculated to make good husbands
in any sense of the word; nor are they usually disposed to think of marriage in any other light
than as the last desperate expedient to repair their injured fortunes. They set their wits
against the sex in general, and consider themselves as in danger of being jockeyed into the
matrimonial state. Some few, perhaps, who have not brought their imagination sufficiently under
the command of the calculating faculty, are caught by beauty and accomplishments, and marry
against the common rules of interest. These men are considered with pity, or with ridicule,
by their companions, as dupes who have suffered themselves to be taken in: others are warned
by their fate; and the future probability of similar errours, of course, must be diminished.
The fashionable apathy, whether real or affected, with which young men lounge in public places,
with scarcely the appearance of attention to the fair exhibitors before them, sufficiently
marks the temper of the times; and if the female sex have lost any thing of the respect and
esteem which ought to be paid to them in society, they can scarcely expect to regain their
proper influence by concessions to the false and vitiated taste of those who combine to treat
them with neglect bordering upon insolence. If the system of female education, if the system
of female manners, conspire to show in the fair sex a degrading anxiety to attract worthless
admiration, wealthy or titled homage, is it surprising that every young man, who has any pretensions
to birth, fortune, or fashion, should consider himself as the arbiter of their fate, and the
despotic judge of their merit? Women, who understand their real interests, perceive the causes
of the contempt with which the sex is treated by fashionable coxcombs, and they feel some indignation
at the meanness with which this contempt, tacitly or openly expressed, is endured. Women, who
feel none of this indignation, and who, either from their education, or their circumstances,
are only solicitous to obtain present amusement, or what they think the permanent advantages
of a fortunate alliance, will yet find themselves mistaken by persisting in their thoughtless
career; they will not gain even the objects to which they aspire. How many accomplished belles
run the usual round of dissipation in all public places of exhibition, tire the public eye,
and, after a season or two, fade and are forgotten! How many accomplished belles are there,
who, having gained the object of their own, or of their mother's ambition, find themselves
doomed to misery for life!

If all, or any of these reflections, should strike the heart, and convince the understanding,
of an anxious, but reasonable mother, she will, probably, immediately determine upon her own
conduct in the education of her daughters: she will resolve to avoid the common errours of
the frivolous or the interested; she will not be influenced by the importunity of every idle
acquaintance, who may talk to her of the necessity of her daughter's being taken notice of
in public, of the chances of an advantageous establishment, of the good fortune of Miss Y----,
or lady Angelina X----, in meeting with a coxcomb or a spendthrift for a husband; nor will
she be moved with maternal emulation when she is further told, that these young ladies owed
their success entirely to the superiority of their accomplishments: she will consider, for
one moment, what is meant by the word success; she will, perhaps, not be of opinion that "'tis
best repenting in a coach and six;" she will, perhaps, reflect, that even the "soft sounds"
of titled grandeur lose their power to please, and "salute the ear" almost unobserved. The
happiness, the permanent happiness of her child, will be the first, the last object of the
good and the enlightened mother: to this all her views and all her efforts will tend; and to
this she will make every fashionable, every elegant accomplishment subservient.

As to the means of acquiring these accomplishments, it would be absurd, and presumptuous, to
present here any vague precepts, or tedious details, upon the mode of learning drawing, dancing,
and music. These can be best learned from the masters who profess to teach them, as far as
the technical part is necessary. But success will not ultimately depend upon any technical
instructions that a master can give: he may direct the efforts of industry so as to save much
useless labour; he may prevent his pupils from acquiring bad practical habits; he may assist,
but he cannot inspire, the spirit of perseverance. A master, who is not expected, or indeed
allowed, to interfere in the general education of his pupils, can only diligently attend to
them whilst he is giving his lessons; he has not any power, except that pernicious motive,
competition, to excite them to excel; his instructions cannot be peculiarly adapted to their
tempers or their understandings, because with these he is unacquainted. Now a sensible mother
has it in her power to supply all these deficiencies; even if she does not herself excel in
any of the accomplishments which her daughters are learning, her knowledge of their minds,
her taste, her judgment, her affection, her superintending intelligence, will be of inestimable
value to her children. If she has any skill in any accomplishment, she will, for the first
years of her daughters' lives, be undoubtedly the best person to instruct them. By skill, we
do not mean superior talents, or proficiency in music or drawing; without these, she may be
able to teach all that is necessary in the early part of education. One of the best motives
which a woman can have to cultivate her talents after she marries, is the hope and belief,
that she may be essentially serviceable in the instruction of her family. And that she may
be essentially serviceable, let no false humility lead her to doubt. She need not be anxious
for the rapid progress of her little pupils; she need not be terrified if she see their equals
in age surpass them under what she thinks more able tuition; she may securely satisfy herself,
that if she but inspires her children with a desire to excel, with the habits of attention
and industry, they will certainly succeed, sooner or later, in whatever it is desirable that
they should learn. The exact age at which the music, dancing, or drawing master, should begin
their instructions, need not be fixed. If a mother should not be so situated as to be able
to procure the best masters for her daughters whilst they are yet children, she need not be
in despair; a rapid progress is made in a short time by well educated young people; those who
have not acquired any bad habits, are easily taught: it should, therefore, seem prudent, if
the best masters cannot be procured at any given period of education, to wait patiently, than
to hazard their first impressions, and the first habits which might be given by any inferiour
technical instruction. It is said, that the celebrated musician Timotheus, whose excellence
in his art Alexander the conqueror of the world was forced to acknowledge, when pupils flocked
to him from all parts of the world, had the prudence to demand double entrance money from every
scholar who had had any other music master.

Besides the advantage of being entirely free from other bad habits, children who are not taught
by inferiour masters, will not contract habits of listless application. Under the eye of an
indolent person, children seldom give their entire attention to what they are about. They become
mere machines, and, without using their own understanding in the least, have recourse to the
convenient master upon every occasion. The utmost that children in such circumstances can learn,
is all the technical part of the art which the master can teach. When the master is at last
dismissed, and her education completed, the pupil is left both fatigued and helpless. "Few
have been taught to any purpose, who have not been their own teachers," says Sir Joshua Reynolds.
This reflection upon the art of teaching, may, perhaps, be too general; but those persons who
look back upon their education, will, in many respects, allow it to be just. They will perceive
that they have been too much taught, that they have learned every thing which they know as
an art, and nothing as a science. Few people have sufficient courage to re-commence their own
education, and for this reason few people get beyond a certain point of mediocrity. It is easy
to them to practise the lessons which they have learned, if they practise them in intellectual
darkness; but if you let in upon them one ray of philosophic light, you dazzle and confound
them, so that they cannot even perform their customary feats. A young man,[33] who had been
blind from his birth, had learned to draw a cross, a circle, and a square, with great accuracy;
when he was twenty, his eyes were couched, and when he could see perfectly well, he was desired
to draw his circle and square. His new sense of seeing, so far from assisting him in this operation,
was extremely troublesome to him; though he took more pains than usual, he performed very ill:
confounded by the new difficulty, he concluded that sight was useless in all operations to
be performed by the hand, and he thought his eyes would be of no use to him in future. How
many people find their reason as useless and troublesome to them as this young man found his
eye-sight!

Whilst we are learning any mechanical operation, or whilst we are acquiring any technical art,
the mind is commonly passive. In the first attempts, perhaps, we reason or invent ways of abridging
our own labour, and the awkwardness of the unpractised hand is assisted by ingenuity and reflection;
but as we improve in manual dexterity, attention and ingenuity are no longer exerted; we go
on habitually without thought.--Thought would probably interrupt the operation, and break the
chain of associated actions.[34] An artificer stops his hand the moment you ask him to explain
what he is about: he can work and talk of indifferent objects; but if he reflects upon the
manner in which he performs certain slight of hand parts of his business, it is ten to one
but he cannot go on with them. A man, who writes a free running hand, goes on without thinking
of the manner in which he writes; fix his attention upon the manner in which he holds his pen,
or forms his letters, and he probably will not write quite so fast, or so well, as usual. When
a girl first attempts to dress herself at a glass, the glass perplexes, instead of assisting
her, because she thinks and reasons about every motion; but when by habit she has learned how
to move her hands in obedience to the flugel-image,[35] which performs its exercise in the
mirror, no further thought is employed. Make the child observe that she moves her left hand
forward when the image in the glass moves in a contrary manner, turn the child's attention
to any of her own motions, and she will make mistakes as she did before her habits were formed.

Many occupations, which are generally supposed to depend upon the understanding, and which
do probably depend in the first instance upon the understanding, become by practice purely
mechanical. This is the case in many of the imitative arts. A person unused to drawing, exerts
a great deal of attention in copying any new object; but custom soon supplies the place of
thought. By custom,[36] as a great artist assures us, he will become able to draw the human
figure tolerably correctly, with as little effort of the mind, as to trace with a pen the letters
of the alphabet.

We must further observe, that the habit of pursuing any occupation, which requires no mental
exertion, induces an indolence or incapacity of intellect. Mere artists are commonly as stupid
as mere artificers, and these are little more than machines.

The length of time which is required to obtain practical skill and dexterity in certain accomplishments,
is one reason why there are so few people who obtain any thing more than mechanical excellence.
They become the slaves of custom, and they become proud of their slavery. At first they might
have considered custom as a tyrant; but when they have obeyed her for a certain time, they
do her voluntary homage ever after, as to a sovereign by divine right. To prevent this species
of intellectual degradation, we must in education be careful to rank mere mechanical talents
below the exercise of the mental powers. Thus the ambition of young people will be directed
to high objects, and all inferiour qualifications may be attained without contracting the understanding.
Praise children for patience, for perseverance, for industry; encourage them to reason and
to invent upon all subjects, and you may direct their attention afterwards as you think proper.
But if you applaud children merely for drawing a flower neatly, or copying a landscape, without
exciting their ambition to any thing higher, you will never create superior talents, or a superior
character. The proficiency that is made in any particular accomplishment, at any given age,
should not be considered so much, even by those who highly value accomplishments, as the power,
the energy, that is excited in the pupil's mind, from which future progress is ensured. The
writing and drawing automaton performs its advertised wonders to the satisfaction of the spectators;
but the machine is not "instinct with spirit;" you cannot expect from its pencil the sketch
of a Raphael, or from its pen the thoughts of a Shakespeare. It is easy to guide the hand,
but who can transfuse a soul into the image?

It is not an uncommon thing to hear young people, who have been long under the tuition of masters,
complain of their own want of genius. They are sensible that they have not made any great progress
in any of the accomplishments which they have endeavoured to learn; they see others, who have
not, perhaps, had what they call such opportunities and advantages in their education, suddenly
surpass them; this they attribute to natural genius, and they say to themselves in despair,
"Certainly I have no taste for drawing; I have no genius for music; I have learned so many
years, I have had so many lessons from the best masters, and yet here is such and such a one,
who has had no master, who has taught herself, and, perhaps, did not begin till late in life,
has got before me, because she has a natural genius for these things. She must have a natural
taste for them, because she can sit whole hours at these things for her own pleasure. Now I
never would take a pencil in my hand from my own choice; and I am glad, at all events, that
the time for lessons and masters is over. My education is finished, for I am of age."

The disgust and despair, which are thus induced by an injudicious education, absolutely defeat
its own trivial purposes. So that, whatever may be the views of parents, whether they consider
ornamental accomplishments as essential to their daughter's success in the world, or whether
they value them rather as secondary objects, subordinate to her happiness; whether they wish
their daughter actually to excel in any particular accomplishment, or to have the power of
excelling in any to which circumstances may direct her, it is in all cases advisable to cultivate
the general power of the pupil's understanding, instead of confining her to technical practices
and precepts, under the eye of any master who does not possess that which is the soul of every art.

We do not mean any illiberal attack upon masters; but in writing upon education, it is necessary
to examine the utility of different modes of instruction, without fear of offending any class
of men. We acknowledge, that it is seldom found, that those who can communicate their knowledge
the best, possess the most, especially if this knowledge be that of an artist or a linguist.
Before any person is properly qualified to teach, he must have the power of recollecting exactly
how he learned; he must go back step by step to the point at which he began, and he must be
able to conduct his pupil through the same path without impatience or precipitation. He must
not only have acquired a knowledge of the process by which his own ideas and habits were formed,
but he must have extensive experience of the varieties of the human mind. He must not suppose,
that the operations of intellect are carried on precisely in the same manner in all minds;
he must not imagine, that there is but one method of teaching, which will suit all persons
alike. The analogies which strike his own mind, the arrangement of ideas, which to him appears
the most perspicuous, to his pupil may appear remote and confused. He must not attribute this
to his pupil's inattention, stupidity, or obstinacy; but he must attribute it to the true causes;
the different association of ideas in different minds, the different habits of thinking, which
arise from their various tempers and previous education. He must be acquainted with the habits
of all tempers: the slow, the quick, the inventive, the investigating; and he must adapt his
instructions accordingly. There is something more requisite: a master must not only know what
he professes to teach of his own peculiar art or science, but he ought to know all its bearings
and dependencies. He must be acquainted not only with the local topography of his own district,
but he must have the whole map of human knowledge before him; and whilst he dwells most upon
his own province, he must yet be free from local prejudices, and must consider himself as a
citizen of the world. Children who study geography in small separate maps, understand, perhaps,
the view of each country tolerably well; but we see them quite puzzled when they are to connect
these maps in their idea of the world. They do not know the relative size or situation of England
or France; they cannot find London or Paris when they look for the first time upon the globe,
and every country seems to be turned upside down in their imagination. Young people who learn
particular arts and sciences from masters who have confined their view to the boundaries of
each, without having given an enlarged idea of the whole, are much in the same situation with
these unfortunate geographers.

The persisting to teach things separately, which ought to be taught as a whole, must prevent
the progress of mental cultivation.[37] The division and subdivision of different parts of
education, which are monopolised as trades by the masters who profess to teach them, must tend
to increase and perpetuate errour. These intellectual casts are pernicious.

It is said, that the Persians had masters to teach their children each separate virtue: one
master to teach justice, another fortitude, another temperance, and so on. How these masters
could preserve the boundaries of their several moral territories, it is not easy to imagine,
especially if they all insisted upon independent sovereignty. There must have been some danger,
surely, of their disputing with one another concerning the importance of their respective professions,
like the poor bourgeois gentilhomme's dancing-master, music-master, master of morality, and
master of philosophy, who all fell to blows to settle their pretensions, forgetful of the presence
of their pupil. Masters, who are only expected to teach one thing, may be sincerely anxious
for the improvement of their pupils in that particular, without being in the least interested
for their general character or happiness. Thus the drawing-master has done his part, and is
satisfied if he teaches his pupil to draw well: it is no concern of his what her temper may
be, any more than what sort of hand she writes, or how she dances. The dancing-master, in his
turn, is wholly indifferent about the young lady's progress in drawing; all he undertakes,
is to teach her to dance.

We mention these circumstances to show parents, that masters, even when they do the utmost
that they engage to do, cannot educate their children; they can only partially instruct them
in particular arts. Parents must themselves preside over the education of their children, or
must entirely give them into the care of some person of an enlarged and philosophic mind, who
can supply all the deficiencies of common masters, and who can take advantage of all the positive
good that can be obtained from existing institutions. Such a preceptor or governess must possess
extensive knowledge, and that superiority of mind which sees the just proportion and value
of every acquisition, which is not to be overawed by authority, or dazzled by fashion. Under
the eye of such persons, masters will keep precisely their proper places; they will teach all
they can teach, without instilling absurd prejudices, or inspiring a spirit of vain rivalship;
nor will masters be suffered to continue their lessons when they have nothing more to teach.

Parents who do not think that they have leisure, or feel that they have capacity, to take the
entire direction of their children's education upon themselves, will trust this important office
to a governess. The inquiry concerning the value of female accomplishments, has been purposely
entered into before we could speak of the choice of a governess, because the estimation in
which these are held, will very much determine parents in their choice.

If what has been said of the probability of a decline in the public taste for what are usually
called accomplishments; of their little utility to the happiness of families and individuals;
of the waste of time, and waste of the higher powers of the mind in acquiring them: if what
has been observed on any of these points is allowed to be just, we shall have little difficulty
in pursuing the same principles further. In the choice of a governess we should not, then,
consider her fashionable accomplishments as her best recommendations; these will be only secondary
objects. We shall examine with more anxiety, whether she possess a sound, discriminating, and
enlarged understanding: whether her mind be free from prejudice; whether she has steadiness
of temper to pursue her own plans; and, above all, whether she has that species of integrity
which will justify a parent in trusting a child to her care. We shall attend to her conversation,
and observe her manners, with scrupulous minuteness. Children are imitative animals, and they
are peculiarly disposed to imitate the language, manners, and gestures, of those with whom
they live, and to whom they look up with admiration. In female education, too much care cannot
be taken to form all those habits in morals and in manners, which are distinguishing characteristics
of amiable women. These habits must be acquired early, or they will never appear easy or graceful;
they will necessarily be formed by those who see none but good models.

We have already pointed out the absolute necessity of union amongst all those who are concerned
in a child's education. A governess must either rule, or obey, decidedly. If she do not agree
with the child's parents in opinion, she must either know how to convince them by argument,
or she must with strict integrity conform her practice to their theories. There are few parents,
who will choose to give up the entire care of their children to any governess; therefore, there
will probably be some points in which a difference of opinion will arise. A sensible woman
will never submit to be treated, as governesses are in some families, like the servant who
was asked by his master what business he had to think: nor will a woman of sense or temper
insist upon her opinions without producing her reasons. She will thus ensure the respect and
the confidence of enlightened parents.

It is surely the interest of parents to treat the person who educates their children, with
that perfect equality and kindness, which will conciliate her affection, and which will at
the same time preserve her influence and authority over her pupils. And it is with pleasure
we observe, that the style of behaviour to governesses, in well bred families, is much changed
within these few years. A governess is no longer treated as an upper servant, or as an intermediate
being between a servant and a gentlewoman: she is now treated as the friend and companion of
the family, and she must, consequently, have warm and permanent interest in its prosperity:
she becomes attached to her pupils from gratitude to their parents, from sympathy, from generosity,
as well as from the strict sense of duty.

In fashionable life there is, however, some danger that parents should go into extremes in
their behaviour towards their governesses. Those who disdain the idea of assuming superiority
of rank and fortune, and who desire to treat the person who educates their children as their
equal, act with perfect propriety; but if they make her their companion in all their amusements,
they go a step too far, and they defeat their own purposes. If a governess attends the card-table,
and the assembly-room; if she is to visit, and be visited, what is to become of her pupils
in her absence? They must be left to the care of servants. There are some ladies who will not
accept of any invitation, in which the governess of their children is not included. This may
be done from a good motive, but, surely, it is unreasonable; for the very use of a governess
is to supply the mother's place in her absence. Cannot this be managed better? Cannot the mother
and governess both amuse themselves at different times? There would then be perfect equality;
the governess would be in the same society, and would be treated with the same respect, without
neglecting her duty. The reward which is given to women of abilities, and of unblemished reputation,
who devote themselves to the superintendence of the education of young ladies in the higher
ranks of life, the daughters of our affluent nobility, ought to be considerably greater than
what it is at present: it ought to be such as to excite women to cultivate their talents, and
their understandings, with a view to this profession. A profession we call it, for it should
be considered as such, as an honourable profession, which a gentlewoman might follow without
losing any degree of the estimation in which she is held by what is called the world. There
is no employment, at present, by which a gentlewoman can maintain herself, without losing something
of that respect, something of that rank in society, which neither female fortitude nor male
philosophy willingly foregoes. The liberal professions are open to men of small fortunes; by
presenting one similar resource to women, we should give a strong motive for their moral and
intellectual improvement.

Nor does it seem probable, that they should make a disgraceful or imprudent use of their increasing
influence and liberty in this case, because their previous education must previously prepare
them properly. The misfortune of women has usually been, to have power trusted to them before
they were educated to use it prudently. To say that preceptresses in the higher ranks of life
should be liberally rewarded, is but a vague expression; something specific should be mentioned,
wherever general utility is the object. Let us observe, that many of the first dignities of
the church are bestowed, and properly bestowed, upon men who have educated the highest ranks
of our nobility. Those who look with an evil eye upon these promotions, do not fairly estimate
the national importance of education for the rich and powerful. No provision can be made for
women who direct the education of the daughters of our nobility, any ways equivalent to the
provision made for preceptors by those who have influence in the state. A pecuniary compensation
is in the power of opulent families. Three hundred a year, for twelve or fourteen years, the
space of time which a preceptress must probably employ in the education of a young lady, would
be a suitable compensation for her care. With this provision she would be enabled, after her
pupil's education was completed, either to settle in her own family, or she would, in the decline
of life, be happily independent, secure from the temptation of marrying for money. If a few
munificent and enlightened individuals set the example of liberally rewarding merit in this
situation, many young women will probably appear with talents and good qualities suited to
the views of the most sanguine parents. With good sense, and literary tastes, a young woman
might instruct herself during the first years of her pupils childhood, and might gradually
prepare herself with all the necessary knowledge: according to the principles that have been
suggested, there would be no necessity for her being a mistress of arts, a performer in music,
a paintress, a linguist, or a poetess. A general knowledge of literature is indispensable;
and yet further, she must have sufficient taste and judgment to direct the literary talents
of her pupils.

With respect to the literary education of the female sex, the arguments on both sides of the
question have already been stated, with all the impartiality in our power, in another place.[38]
Without obtruding a detail of the same arguments again upon the public, it will be sufficient
to profess the distinct opinion, which a longer consideration of the subject has yet more fully
confirmed, that it will tend to the happiness of society in general, that women should have
their understandings cultivated and enlarged as much as possible; that the happiness of domestic
life, the virtues and the powers of pleasing in the female sex, the yet more desirable power
of attaching those worthy of their love and esteem, will be increased by the judicious cultivation
of the female understanding, more than by all that modern gallantry or ancient chivalry could
devise in favour of the sex. Much prudence and ability are requisite to conduct properly a
young woman's literary education. Her imagination must not be raised above the taste for necessary
occupations, or the numerous small, but not trifling, pleasures of domestic life: her mind
must be enlarged, yet the delicacy of her manners must be preserved: her knowledge must be
various, and her powers of reasoning unawed by authority; yet she must habitually feel that
nice sense of propriety, which is at once the guard and the charm of every feminine virtue.
By early caution, unremitting, scrupulous caution in the choice of the books which are put
into the hands of girls, a mother, or a preceptress, may fully occupy and entertain their pupils,
and excite in their minds a taste for propriety, as well as a taste for literature. It cannot
be necessary to add more than this general idea, that a mother ought to be answerable to her
daughter's husband for the books her daughter had read, as well as for the company she had kept.

Those observations, which apply equally to the cultivation of the understanding both of men
and of women, we do not here mean to point out; we would speak only of what may be peculiar
to female education. From the study of the learned languages, women, by custom, fortunately
for them, are exempted: of ancient literature they may, in translations which are acknowledged
to be excellent, obtain a sufficient knowledge, without paying too much time and labour for
this classic pleasure. Confused notions from fashionable publications, from periodical papers,
and comedies, have made their way into common conversation, and thence have assumed an appearance
of authority, and have been extremely disadvantageous to female education. Sentiment and ridicule
have conspired to represent reason, knowledge, and science, as unsuitable or dangerous to women;
yet at the same time wit, and superficial acquirements in literature, have been the object
of admiration in society; so that this dangerous inference has been drawn, almost without our
perceiving its fallacy, that superficial knowledge is more desirable in women than accurate
knowledge. This principle must lead to innumerable errours; it must produce continual contradictions
in the course of education: instead of making women more reasonable, and less presuming, it
will render them at once arrogant and ignorant; full of pretensions, incapable of application,
and unfit to hear themselves convinced. Whatever young women learn, let them be taught accurately;
let them know ever so little apparently, they will know much if they have learnt that little
well. A girl who runs through a course of natural history, hears something about chemistry,
has been taught something of botany, and who knows but just enough of these to make her fancy
that she is well informed, is in a miserable situation, in danger of becoming ridiculous, and
insupportably tiresome to men of sense and science. But let a woman know any one thing completely,
and she will have sufficient understanding to learn more, and to apply what she has been taught
so as to interest men of generosity and genius in her favour. The knowledge of the general
principles of any science, is very different from superficial knowledge of the science; perhaps,
from not attending to this distinction, or from not understanding it, many have failed in female
education. Some attempt will be made to mark this distinction practically, when we come to
speak of the cultivation of the memory, invention, and judgment. No intelligent preceptress
will, it is hoped, find any difficulty in the application of the observations they may meet
with in the chapters on imagination, sympathy and sensibility, vanity and temper. The masculine
pronoun he, has been used for grammatical convenience, not at all because we agree with the
prejudiced, and uncourteous grammarian, who asserts, "that the masculine is the more worthy
gender."

FOOTNOTES:

[32] Une virtuose.

[33] V. Storia di quattro fratelli nati ciechi e guariti coll' estrazione delle cateratte.--Di
Francesco Buzzi.

[34] V. Zoonomia.

[35] This word is sometimes by mistake spelt fugal-man.

[36] Sir Joshua Reynolds.

[37] Condillac.

[38] V. Letters for Literary Ladies.

CHAPTER XXI.

MEMORY AND INVENTION.

Before we bestow many years of time and pains upon any object, it may be prudent to afford
a few minutes previously to ascertain its precise value. Many persons have a vague idea of
the great value of memory, and, without analyzing their opinion, they resolve to cultivate
the memories of their children as much, and as soon, as possible. So far from having determined
the value of this talent, we shall find that it will be difficult to give a popular definition
of a good memory. Some people call that a good memory which retains the greatest number of
ideas for the longest time. Others prefer a recollective to a retentive memory, and value not
so much the number; as the selection, of facts; not so much the mass, or even the antiquity,
of accumulated treasure, as the power of producing current specie for immediate use. Memory
is sometimes spoken of as if it were a faculty admirable in itself, without any union with
the other powers of the mind. Amongst those who allow that memory has no independent claim
to regard, there are yet many who believe, that a superior degree of memory is essential to
the successful exercise of the higher faculties, such as judgment and invention. The degree
in which it is useful to those powers, has not, however, been determined. Those who are governed
in their opinions by precedent and authority, can produce many learned names, to prove that
memory was held in the highest estimation amongst the great men of antiquity; it was cultivated
with much anxiety in their public institutions, and in their private education. But there were
many circumstances, which formerly contributed to make a great memory essential to a great
man. In civil and military employments, amongst the ancients, it was in a high degree requisite.
Generals were expected to know by heart the names of the soldiers in their armies; demagogues,
who hoped to please the people, were expected to know the names of all their fellow-citizens.[39]
Orators, who did not speak extempore, were obliged to get their long orations by rote. Those
who studied science or philosophy, were obliged to cultivate their memory with incessant care,
because, if they frequented the schools for instruction, they treasured up the sayings of the
masters of different sects, and learned their doctrines only by oral instruction. Manuscripts
were frequently got by heart by those who were eager to secure the knowledge they contained,
and who had not opportunities of recurring to the originals. It is not surprising, therefore,
that memory, to which so much was trusted, should have been held in such high esteem.

At the revival of literature in Europe, before the discovery of the art of printing, it was
scarcely possible to make any progress in the literature of the age, without possessing a retentive
memory. A man who had read a few manuscripts, and could repeat them, was a wonder, and a treasure:
he could travel from place to place, and live by his learning; he was a circulating library
to a nation, and the more books he could carry in his head, the better: he was certain of an
admiring audience if he could repeat what Aristotle or Saint Jerome had written; and he had
far more encouragement to engrave the words of others on his memory, than to invent or judge
for himself.

In the twelfth century, above six hundred scholars assembled in the forests of Champagne, to
hear the lectures of the learned Abeillard; they made themselves huts of the boughs of trees,
and in this new academic grove were satisfied to go almost without the necessaries of life.
In the specimens of Abeillard's composition, which are handed down to us, we may discover proofs
of his having been vain of a surprising memory; it seems to have been the superior faculty
of his mind: his six hundred pupils could carry away with them only so much of his learning
as they could get by heart during his course of lectures; and he who had the best memory, must
have been best paid for his journey.[40]

The art of printing, by multiplying copies so as to put them within the easy reference of all
classes of people, has lowered the value of this species of retentive memory. It is better
to refer to the book itself, than to the man who has read the book. Knowledge is now ready
classed for use, and it is safely stored up in the great common-place books of public libraries.
A man of literature need not incumber his memory with whole passages from the authors he wants
to quote; he need only mark down the page, and the words are safe.

Mere erudition does not in these days ensure permanent fame. The names of the Abbé de Longuerue,
and of the Florentine librarian Magliabechi, excite no vivid emotions in the minds of those
who have heard of them before; and there are many, perhaps not illiterate persons, who would
not be ashamed to own that they had never heard of them at all. Yet these men were both of
them, but a few years ago, remarkable for extraordinary memory and erudition. When M. de Longuerue
was a child, he was such a prodigy of memory and knowledge, that Lewis the fourteenth, passing
through the abbé's province, stopped to see and hear him. When he grew up, Paris consulted
him as the oracle of learning. His erudition, says d'Alembert,[41] was not only prodigious,
but actually terrible. Greek and Hebrew were more familiar to him than his native tongue. His
memory was so well furnished with historic facts, with chronological and topographical knowledge,
that upon hearing a person assert in conversation, that it would be a difficult task to write
a good historical description of France,[42] he asserted, that he could do it from memory,
without consulting any books. All he asked, was, to have some maps of France laid before him:
these recalled to his mind the history of each province, of all the fiefs of the crown of each
city, and even of each distinguished nobleman's seat in the kingdom. He wrote his folio history
in a year. It was admired as a great curiosity in manuscript; but when it came to be printed,
sundry gross errours appeared: he was obliged to take out several leaves in correcting the
press. The edition was very expensive, and the work, at last, would have been rather more acceptable
to the public, if the author had not written it from memory. Love of the wonderful must yield
to esteem for the useful.

The effect which all this erudition had upon the Abbé de Longuerue's taste, judgment, and imagination,
is worth our attention. Some of his opinions speak sufficiently for our purpose. He was of
opinion that the English have never done any good,[43] since they renounced the study of Greek
and Arabic, for Geometry and Physics. He was of opinion, that two antiquarian books upon Homer,
viz. Antiquitates Homericæ and Homeri Gnomologia, are preferable to Homer himself. He would
rather have them, he declared, because with these he had all that was useful in the poet, without
being obliged to go through long stories, which put him to sleep. "As for that madman Ariosto,"
said he, "I sometimes divert myself with him." One odd volume of Racine was the only French
book to be found in his library. His erudition died with him, and the world has not profited
much by his surprising memory.

The librarian Magliabechi was no less famous than M. de Longuerue for his memory, and he was
yet more strongly affected by the mania for books. His appetite for them was so voracious,
that he acquired the name of the glutton of literature.[44] Before he died, he had swallowed
six large rooms full of books. Whether he had time to digest any of them we do not know, but
we are sure that he wished it; for the only line of his own composition which he has left for
the instruction of posterity, is round a medal. The candid inscription signifies, that to become
learned it is not sufficient to read much, if we read without reflection. The names of Franklin
and of Shakespeare are known wherever literature is cultivated, to all who have any pretensions
to science or to genius; yet they were neither of them men of extraordinary erudition, nor
from their works should we judge that memory was their predominant faculty. It may be said,
that a superior degree of memory was essential to the exercise of their judgment and invention;
that without having treasured up in his memory a variety of minute observations upon human
nature, Shakespeare could never have painted the passions with so bold and just a hand; that
if Franklin had not accurately remembered his own philosophical observations, and those of
others, he never would have made those discoveries which have immortalized his name. Admitting
the justice of these assertions, we see that memory to great men is but a subordinate servant,
a treasurer who receives, and is expected to keep faithfully whatever is committed to his care;
and not only to preserve faithfully all deposits, but to produce them at the moment they are
wanted. There are substances which are said to imbibe and retain the rays of light, and to
emit them only in certain situations. As long as they retain the rays, no eye regards them.

It has often been observed, that a recollective and retentive memory are seldom found united.
If this were true, and that we had our choice of either, which should we prefer? For the purposes
of ostentation, perhaps the one; for utility, the other. A person who could repeat from beginning
to end the whole Economy of Human Life, which he had learned in his childhood, might, if we
had time to sit still and listen to him, obtain our admiration for his extraordinary retentive
memory; but the person who, in daily occurrences, or interesting affairs, recollects at the
proper time what is useful to us, obtains from our gratitude something more than vain admiration.
To speak accurately, we must remark, that retentive and recollective memories are but relative
terms: the recollective memory must be retentive of all that it recollects; the retentive memory
cannot show itself till the moment it becomes recollective. But we value either precisely in
proportion as they are useful and agreeable.

Just at the time when philosophers were intent upon trying experiments in electricity, Dr.
Heberden recollected to have seen, many years before, a small electrical stone, called tourmalin,[45]
in the possession of Dr. Sharpe at Cambridge. It was the only one known in England at that
time. Dr. Heberden procured it; and several curious experiments were made and verified with
it. In this instance, it is obvious that we admire the retentive, local memory of Dr. Heberden,
merely because it became recollective and useful. Had the tourmalin never been wanted, it would
have been a matter of indifference, whether the direction for it at Dr. Sharpe's at Cambridge,
had been remembered or forgotten. There was a man[46] who undertook, in going from Temple Bar
to the furthest part of Cheapside and back again, to enumerate at his return every sign on
each side of the way in its order, and to repeat them, if it should be required, either backwards
or forwards. This he exactly accomplished. As a playful trial of memory, this affords us a
moments entertainment; but if we were to be serious upon the subject, we should say it was
a pity that the man did not use his extraordinary memory for some better purpose. The late
king of Prussia, when he intended to advance Trenck in the army, upon his first introduction,
gave him a list of the strangest names which could be picked out, to learn by rote. Trenck
learned them quickly, and the king was much pleased with this instance of his memory; but Frederick
would certainly never have made such a trial of the abilities of Voltaire.

We cannot always foresee what facts may be useful, and what may be useless to us, otherwise
the cultivation of the memory might be conducted by unerring rules. In the common business
of life, people regulate their memories by the circumstances in which they happen to be placed.
A clerk in a counting-house, by practice, learns to remember the circumstances, affairs, and
names of numerous merchants, of his master's customers, the places of their abode, and, perhaps,
something of their peculiar humours and manners. A fine lady remembers her visiting list, and,
perhaps, the dresses and partners of every couple at a crowded ball; she finds all these particulars
a useful supply for daily conversation, she therefore remembers them with care. An amateur,
who is ambitious to shine in the society of literary men, collects literary anecdotes, and
retails them whenever occasion permits. Men of sense, who cultivate their memories for useful
purposes, are not obliged to treasure up heterogeneous facts: by reducing particulars to general
principles, and by connecting them with proper associations, they enjoy all the real advantages,
whilst they are exempt from the labour of accumulation.

Mr. Stewart has, with so much ability, pointed out the effects of systematic arrangement of
writing, reading, and the use of technical contrivances in the cultivation of the memory, that
it would be a presumptuous and unnecessary attempt to expatiate in other words upon the same
subject. It may not be useless, however, to repeat a few of his observations, because, in considering
what further improvement may be made, it is always essential to have fully in our view what
is already known.

"Philosophic arrangement assists the memory, by classing under a few principles, a number of
apparently dissimilar and unconnected particulars. The habit, for instance, of attending to
the connection of cause and effect, presents a multitude of interesting analogies to the minds
of men of science, which escape other persons; the vulgar feel no pleasure in contemplating
objects that appear remote from common life; and they find it extremely difficult to remember
observations and reasonings which are foreign to their customary course of associated ideas.
Even literary and ingenious people, when they begin to learn any art or science, usually complain
that their memory is not able to retain all the terms and ideas which pour in upon them with
perplexing rapidity. In time, this difficulty is conquered, not so much by the strength of
the memory, as by the exercise of judgment: they learn to distinguish, and select the material
terms, facts and arguments, from those that are subordinate, and they class them under general
heads, to relieve the memory from all superfluous labour.

"In all studies, there is some prevalent associating principle, which gradually becomes familiar
to our minds, but which we do not immediately discover in our first attempts. In poetry, resemblance;
in philosophy, cause and effect; in mathematics, demonstrations continually recur; and, therefore,
each is expected by persons who have been used to these respective studies.

"The habit of committing our knowledge to writing, assists the memory, because, in writing,
we detain certain ideas long enough in our view to perceive all their relations; we use fixed
and abbreviated signs for all our thoughts; with the assistance of these, we can prevent confusion
in our reasonings. We can, without fatigue, by the help of words, letters, figures, or algebraic
signs, go through a variety of mental processes, and solve many difficult problems, which,
without such assistance, must have been too extensive for our capacities.

"If our books be well chosen, and if we read with discrimination and attention, reading will
improve the memory, because, as it increases our knowledge, it increases our interest in every
new discovery, and in every new combination of ideas."

We agree entirely with Mr. Stewart in his observations upon technical helps to the memory;
they are hurtful to the understanding, because they break the general habits of philosophic
order in the mind. There is no connection of ideas between the memorial lines, for instance,
in Grey's Memoria Technica, the history of the Kings or Emperors, and the dates that we wish
to remember. However, it may be advantageous in education to use such contrivances, to assist
our pupils in remembering those technical parts of knowledge, which are sometimes valued above
their worth in society.

The facts upon which the principles of any science are founded, should never be learnt by rote
in a technical manner. But the names and the dates of the reigns of a number of kings and emperors,
if they must be remembered by children, should be learnt in the manner which may give them
the least trouble.[47]

It is commonly asserted, that our memory is to be improved by exercise: exercise may be of
different kinds, and we must determine what sort is best. Repetition is found to fix words,
and sometimes ideas, strongly in the mind; the words of the burden of a song, which we have
frequently heard, are easily and long remembered. When we want to get any thing by rote, we
repeat it over and over again, till the sounds seem to follow one another habitually, and then
we say we have them perfectly by rote.[48] The regular recurrence of sounds, at stated intervals,
much assists us. In poetry, the rhymes, the cadence, the alliteration, the peculiar structure
of the poet's lines, aids us. All these are mechanical helps to the memory. Repetition seems
much more agreeable to some people than to others; but it may be doubted whether a facility
and propensity to repetition be favourable to rational memory. Whilst we repeat, we exclude
all thought from the mind; we form a habit of saying certain sounds in a certain order; but
if this habit be afterwards broken by any trifling external circumstances, we lose all our
labour. We have no means of recollecting what we have learned in this manner. Once gone, it
is gone for ever. It depends but upon one principle of association. Those who exert ingenuity
as well as memory in learning by heart, may not, perhaps, associate sounds with so much expedition,
but they will have the power of recollection in a greater degree. They will have more chances
in their favour, besides the great power of voluntary exertion: a power which few passive repeaters
ever possess. The following lines are easily learned:

    "Haste, then, ye spirits; to your charge repair,
    The fluttering fan be Zephyretta's care;
    The drops to thee, Brillante, we consign,
    And, Momentilla, let the watch be thine;
    Do thou, Crispissa, tend her favourite lock,
    Ariel himself shall be the guard of Shock."

To a person who merely learned the sounds in these lines by rote,
without knowing the sense of the words, all the advantage of the
appropriated names and offices of the sylphs would be lost. No one,
who has any sense of propriety, can call these sylphs by wrong names,
or put them out of their places. Momentilla and the watch, Zephyretta
and the fan, Crispissa and the lock of hair, Brillante and the diamond
drops, are so intimately associated, that they necessarily recur
together in the memory.
    When first that sun too pow'rful beams displays,
    It draws up vapour, which obscures its rays;
    But ev'n those clouds at last adorn its way,
    Reflect new glories, and augment the day."

The flow of these lines is not particularly easy; those who trust merely to the power of reiteration
in getting them by rote, will find the task difficult; those who seize the ideas, will necessarily
recollect their order, and the sense will conduct them to their proper places with certainty:
they cannot, for instance, make the clouds adorn the sun's rays before the sun's powerful beams
have drawn up the vapours. This fixes the place of the four last lines. The simile of merit
and the sun, and envy and the clouds, keeps each idea in its order; if any one escapes, it
is easily missed, and easily recalled.

We seldom meet with those who can give us an accurate account of their own thoughts; it is,
therefore, difficult to tell the different ways in which different people manage their memory.
We judge by the effects frequently, that causes are the same, which sometimes are entirely
different. Thus we, in common conversation, should say, that two people had an equally good
memory, who could repeat with equal exactness any thing which they had heard or read. But in
their methods of remembering, these persons might differ essentially; the one might have exerted
much more judgment and ingenuity in the conduct of his memory than the other, and might thus
have not only fatigued himself less, but might have improved his understanding, whilst the
other learned merely by rote. When Dr. Johnson reported the parliamentary debates for the gentleman's
Magazine, his judgment, his habit of attending to the order in which ideas follow one another
in reasoning, his previous knowledge of the characters and style of the different speakers,
must considerably have assisted his memory. His taste for literary composition must have shown
him instantly where any argument or allusion was misplaced. A connecting phrase, or a link
in a chain of reasoning, is missed as readily by a person used to writing and argument, as
a word in a line of poetry is missed by a poetic ear. If any thing has escaped the memory of
persons who remember by general classification, they are not only by their art able to discover
that something is missing, but they have a general direction where to find it; they know to
what class of ideas it must belong; they can hunt from generals to particulars, till they are
sure at last of tracing and detecting the deserter; they have certain signs by which they know
the object of which they are in search, and they trust with more certainty to these characteristics,
than to the mere vague recollection of having seen it before. We feel disposed to trust the
memory of those who can give us some reason for what they remember. If they can prove to us
that their assertion could not, consistently with other facts, be false, we admit the assertion
into the rank of facts, and their judgment thus goes surety for their memory.

The following advertisement (taken from the star of the 21st September, 1796) may show that
experience justifies these theoretic notions:

     "Literature.

     "A gentleman capable of reporting the debates in parliament, is
     wanted for a London newspaper. A business of no such great
     difficulty as is generally imagined by those unacquainted with it.
     A tolerable good style and facility of composition, as well as a
     facility of writing, together with a good memory (not an
     extraordinary one) are all the necessary requisites. If a
     gentleman writes short hand, it is an advantage; but memory and
     composition are more important.

     "The advertiser, conceiving that many gentlemen either in London or
     at the Universities, or in other parts of the kingdom, may think
     such a situation desirable, takes this public method of enabling
     them to obtain it. The salary, which will vary according to the
     talents of the reporter, will at least afford a genteel
     subsistence, and the business need not interrupt the pursuit of
     studies necessary for a more important profession. A gentleman who
     has never tried parliamentary reporting, will be preferred by the
     advertiser, because he has observed, that those who have last
     attempted it, are now the best reporters."

In the common mode of education, great exactness of repetition is required from pupils. This
seems to be made a matter of too much importance. There are circumstances in life, in which
this talent is useful, but its utility, perhaps, we shall find, upon examination, is over-rated.

In giving evidence of words, dates, and facts, in a court of justice, the utmost precision
is requisite. The property, lives, and characters of individuals depend upon this precision.

But we must observe, that after long detailed evidence has been given by a number of witnesses,
an advocate separates the material from the immaterial circumstances, and the judge in his
charge again compresses the arguments of the counsel, so that much of what has been said during
the trial, might as well have been omitted. All these superfluous ideas were remembered to
no purpose. An evidence sometimes, if he be permitted, would tell not only all that he remembers
of the circumstances about which he is examined, but also a number of other circumstances,
which are casually associated with these in his memory. An able advocate rejects, by a quickness
of judgment which appears like intuition, all that is irrelevant to his argument and his cause;
and it is by this selection that his memory, in the evidence, perhaps, of twenty different
people, is able to retain all that is useful. When this heterogeneous mass of evidence is classed
by his perspicuous arrangement, his audience feel no difficulty either in understanding or
recollecting all which had before appeared confused. Thus the exercise of the judgment saves
much of the labour of memory; labour which is not merely unnecessary, but hurtful, to our understanding.

In making observations upon subjects which are new to us, we must be content to use our memory
unassisted at first by our reason; we must treasure up the ore and rubbish together, because
we cannot immediately distinguish them from each other. But the sooner we can separate them,
the better. In the beginning of all experimental sciences, a number of useless particulars
are recorded, because they are not known to be useless; when, from comparing these, a few general
principles are discovered, the memory is immediately relieved, the judgment and inventive faculty
have power and liberty to work, and then a rapid progress and great discoveries are made. It
is the misfortune of those who first cultivate new sciences, that their memory is overloaded;
but if those who succeed to them, submit to the same senseless drudgery, it is not their misfortune,
but their fault. Let us look over the history of those who have made discoveries and inventions,
we shall perceive, that it has been by rejecting useless ideas that they have first cleared
their way to truth. Dr. Priestley's Histories of Vision and of Electricity, are as useful when
we consider them as histories of the human mind, as when we read them as histories of science.
Dr. Priestley has published a catalogue of books,[49] from which he gathered his materials.
The pains, he tells us, that it cost him to compress and abridge the accounts which ingenious
men have given of their own experiments, teach us how much our progress in real knowledge depends
upon rejecting all that is superfluous. When Simonides offered to teach Themistocles the art
of memory, Themistocles answered, "Rather teach me the art of forgetting; for I find that I
remember much that I had better forget, and forget" (consequently) "some things which I wish
to remember."

When any discovery or invention is completed, we are frequently astonished at its obvious simplicity.
The ideas necessary to the discovery, are seldom so numerous as to fatigue our memory. Memory
seems to have been useful to inventors only as it presented a few ideas in a certain happy
connection, as it presented them faithfully and distinctly to view in the proper moment. If
we wish for examples of the conduct of the understanding, we need only look into Dr. Franklin's
works. He is so free from all affectation, he lays his mind so fairly before us, that he is,
perhaps, the best example we can select. Those who are used to look at objects in a microscope,
say, that full as much depends upon the object's being well prepared for inspection, as upon
the attention of the observer, or the excellence of the glass.

The first thing that strikes us, in looking over Doctor Franklin's works, is the variety of
his observations upon different subjects. We might imagine, that a very tenacious and powerful
memory was necessary to register all these; but Dr. Franklin informs us, that it was his constant
practice to note down every hint as it occurred to him: he urges his friends to do the same;
he observes, that there is scarcely a day passes without our hearing or seeing something which,
if properly attended to, might lead to useful discoveries. By thus committing his ideas to
writing, his mind was left at liberty to think. No extraordinary effort of memory was, even
upon the greatest occasions, requisite. A friend wrote to him to inquire how he was led to
his great discovery of the identity of lightning and electricity; and how he first came to
think of drawing down lightning from the clouds. Dr. Franklin replies, that he could not answer
better than by giving an extract from the minutes he used to keep of the experiments he made,
with memorandums of such as he purposed to make, the reasons for making them, and the observations
that rose upon them. By this extract, says Dr. Franklin, you will see that the thought was
not so much an out of the way one, but that it might have occurred to any electrician.[50]

When the ideas are arranged in clear order, as we see them in this note, the analogy or induction
to which Dr. Franklin was led, appears easy. Why, then, had it never been made by any other
person? Numbers of ingenious men were at this time intent upon electricity. The ideas which
were necessary to this discovery, were not numerous or complicated. We may remark, that one
analogy connecting these observations together, they are more easily recollected; and their
being written down for a particular purpose, on which Dr. Franklin's mind was intent, must
have made it still easier to him to retain them.

The degree of memory he was forced to employ, is thus reduced to a portion in which few people
are defective. Now, let us suppose, that Dr. Franklin, at the time he wrote his memorandum,
had fully in his recollection every previous experiment that had ever been tried on electricity;
and not only these, but the theories, names, ages, and private history, of all the men who
had tried these experiments; of what advantage would this have been to him? He must have excluded
all these impertinent ideas successively as they rose before him, and he must have selected
the fifteen useful observations, which we have mentioned, from this troublesome multitude.
The chance in such a selection would have been against him; the time employed in the examination
and rejection of all the unnecessary recollections, would have been absolutely wasted.

We must wish that it were in our power, when we make observations upon nature, or when we read
the reflections of others, to arrange our thoughts so as to be ready when we want to reason
or invent. When cards are dealt to us, we can sort our hand according to the known probabilities
of the game, and a new arrangement is easily made when we hear what is trumps.

In collecting and sorting observations, Dr. Franklin particularly excelled; therefore we may
safely continue to take him for our example. Wherever he happened to be, in a boat, in a mine,
in a printer's shop, in a crowded city, or in the country, in Europe or America, he displays
the same activity of observation. When any thing, however trifling, struck him which he could
not account for, he never rested till he had traced the effect to its cause. Thus, after having
made one remark, he had fresh motive to collect facts, either to confirm or refute an hypothesis;
his observations tending consequently to some determinate purpose, they were arranged in the
moment they were made, in the most commodious manner, both for his memory and invention; they
were arranged either according to their obvious analogies, or their relation to each other
as cause and effect. He had two useful methods of judging of the value of his own ideas; he
either considered how they could be immediately applied to practical improvements in the arts,
or how they could lead to the solution of any of the great problems in science. Here we must
again observe, that judgment saved the labour of memory. A person, who sets about to collect
facts at random, is little better than a magpie, who picks up and lays by any odd bits of money
he can light upon, without knowing their use.

Miscellaneous observations, which are made by those who have no philosophy, may accidentally
lead to something useful; but here we admire the good fortune, and not the genius, of the individuals
who make such discoveries: these are prizes drawn from the lottery of science, which ought
not to seduce us from the paths of sober industry. How long may an observation, fortunately
made, continue to be useless to mankind, merely because it has not been reasoned upon! The
trifling observation, that a straight stick appears bent in water, was made many hundred years
before the reason of that appearance was discovered! The invention of the telescope might have
been made by any person who could have pursued this slight observation through all its consequences.

Having now defined, or rather described, what we mean by a good memory, we may consider how
the memory should be cultivated. In children, as well as in men, the strength of that habit,
or perhaps of that power of the mind which associates ideas together, varies considerably.
It is probable, that this difference may depend sometimes upon organization. A child who is
born with any defect in his eyes, cannot possibly have the same pleasure in objects of sight,
which those enjoy who have strong eyes: ideas associated with these external objects, are,
therefore, not associated with pleasure, and, consequently, they are not recollected with any
sensations of pleasure. An ingenious writer[51] supposes, that all the difference of capacity
amongst men ultimately depends on their original power of feeling pleasure or pain, and their
consequent different habits of attention.

When there is any defect in a child's organization, we must have recourse to physics, and not
to metaphysics; but even among children, who are apparently in the full possession of all their
senses, we see very different degrees of vivacity: those who have most vivacity, seldom take
delight in repeating their ideas; they are more pleased with novelty than prone to habit. Those
children who are deficient in vivacity, are much disposed to the easy indolent pleasure of
repetition; it costs them less exertion to say or do the same thing over again, than to attempt
any thing new; they are uniformly good subjects to habit, because novelty has no charms to
seduce their attention.

The education of the memory in these two classes of children, ought not to be the same. Those
who are disposed to repetition, should not be indulged in it, because it will increase their
indolence; they should be excited by praise, by example, by sympathy, and by all the strongest
motives that we can employ. Their interest in every thing around them must by all means be
increased: when they show eagerness about any thing, no matter what it is, we may then exercise
their memory upon that subject with some hopes of success. It is of importance that they should
succeed in their first trials, otherwise they will be discouraged from repeating their attempts,
and they will distrust their own memory in future. The fear of not remembering, will occupy,
and agitate, and weaken their minds; they should, therefore, be animated by hope. If they fail,
at all events let them not be reproached; the mortification they naturally feel, is sufficient:
nor should they be left to dwell upon their disappointment; they should have a fresh and easier
trial given to them, that they may recover their own self-complacency as expeditiously as possible.
It may be said, that there are children of such a sluggish temperament, that they feel no pleasure
in success, and no mortification in perceiving their own mental deficiencies. There are few
children of this description; scarcely any, perhaps, whose defects have not been increased
by education. Exertion has been made so painful to them, that at length they have sunk into
apathy, or submitted in despair to the eternal punishment of shame.

The mistaken notion, that the memory must be exercised only in books, has been often fatal
to the pupils of literary people. We remember best those things which interest us most; which
are useful to us in conversation; in our daily business or amusement. So do children. On these
things we should exercise their memory. Tell a boy who has lost his top, to remember at such
a particular time to put you in mind of it, and if he does, that you will give him another,
he will probably remember your requests after this, better than you will yourself. Affectionate
children will easily extend their recollective memories in the service of their friends and
companions. "Put me in mind to give your friend what he asked for, and I will give it to him
if you remember it at the right time." It will be best to manage these affairs so that convenience,
and not caprice, shall appear to be your motive for the requests. The time and place should
be precisely fixed, and something should be chosen which is likely to recall your request at
the appointed time. If you say, put me in mind of such a thing the moment the cloth is taken
away after dinner; or as soon as candles are brought into the room; or when I go by such a
shop in our walk this evening; here are things mentioned which will much assist the young remembrancer:
the moment the cloth is taken away, or the candles come, he will recollect, from association,
that something is to be done, that he has something to do; and presently he will make out what
that something is.

A good memory for business depends upon local, well arranged associations. The man of business
makes an artificial memory for himself out of the trivial occurrences of the day, and the hours
as they pass recall their respective occupations. Children can acquire these habits very early
in their education; they are eager to give their companions an account of any thing they have
seen or heard; their tutors should become their companions, and encourage them by sympathy
to address these narrations to them. Children who forget their lessons in chronology, and their
pence tables, can relate with perfect accuracy any circumstances which have interested themselves.
This shows that there is no deficiency in their capacity. Every one, who has had any experience
of the pleasure of talking, knows how intimately it is connected with the pleasure of being
listened to. The auditors, consequently, possess supreme power over narrative childhood, without
using any artifice, by simply showing attention to well arranged, and well recollected narratives,
and ceasing to attend when the young orator's memory and story become confused, he will naturally
be excited to arrange his ideas. The order of time is the first and easiest principle of association
to help the memory. This, till young people acquire the ideas of cause and effect, will be
their favourite mode of arrangement. Things that happen at the same time; things that are said,
thoughts that have occurred, at the same time, will recur to the mind together. We may observe,
that ill educated people continue through life to remember things by this single association;
and, consequently, there is a heterogeneous collection of ideas in their mind, which have no
rational connection with each other; crowds which have accidentally met, and are forced to
live for ever together.

A vulgar evidence, when he is examined about his memory of a particular fact, gives as a reason
for his remembering it, a relation of a number of other circumstances, which he tells you happened
at the same time; or he calls to witness any animate or inanimate objects, which he happened
to see at the same time. All these things are so joined with the principal fact in his mind,
that his remembering them distinctly, seems to him, and he expects will seem to others, demonstration
of the truth and accuracy of his principal assertion. When a lawyer tells him he has nothing
to do with these ideas, he is immediately at a stand in his narrative; he can recollect nothing,
he is sure of nothing; he has no reason to give for his belief, unless he may say that it was
Michaelmas-day when such a thing happened, that he had a goose for dinner that day, or that
he had a new wig. Those who have more enlarged minds, seldom produce these strange reasons
for remembering facts. Indeed, no one can reason clearly, whose memory has these foolish habits;
the ill matched ideas are inseparably joined, and hence they imagine there is some natural
connection between them. Hence arise those obstinate prejudices which no arguments can vanquish.

To prevent children from arguing ill, we must, therefore, take care, in exercising their memory,
to discourage them in this method of proving that they remember one thing by telling us a number
of others which happened at the same time; rather let them be excited to bring their reasoning
faculty into play in support of their memory. Suppose, for instance, that a child had mislaid
his hat, and was trying to recollect where he had put it. He first may recollect, from the
association of time, that he had the hat the last time he went out; but when he wants to recollect
when that time was, he had better go back, if he can, to his motive for going out; this one
idea will bring a number of others in right order into his mind. He went out, suppose, to fetch
his kite, which he was afraid would be wet by a shower of rain; then the boy recollects that
his hat must have been wet by the same rain, and that when he came in, instead of hanging it
up in its usual place, it was put before the fire to be dried. What fire, is the next question, &c.

Such an instance as this may appear very trivial; but children whose minds are well managed
about trifles, will retain good habits when they are to think about matters of consequence.
By exercising the memory in this manner about things, instead of about books and lessons, we
shall not disgust and tire our pupils, nor shall we give the false notion, that all knowledge
is acquired by reading.

Long before children read fluently for their own amusement, they like to hear others read aloud
to them, because they have then the entertainment without the labour. We may exercise their
memory by asking for an account of what they have heard. But let them never be required to
repeat in the words of the book, or even to preserve the same arrangement; let them speak in
words of their own, and arrange their ideas to their own plan; this will exercise at once their
judgment, invention, and memory.

"Try if you can explain to me what I have just been explaining to you," a sensible tutor will
frequently say to his pupils; and he will suffer them to explain in a different manner from
himself; he will only require them to remember what is essential to the explanation. In such
repetitions as these, the mind is active, therefore it will strengthen and improve.

Children are all, more or less, pleased with the perception of resemblances and of analogy.
This propensity assists us much in the cultivation of the memory; but it must be managed with
discretion, or it will injure the other powers of the understanding. There is, in some minds,
a futile love of tracing analogies, which leads to superstition, to false reasoning, and false
taste. The quick perception of resemblances is, in other minds, productive of wit, poetic genius,
and scientific invention. The difference between these two classes, depends upon this--the
one has more judgment, and more the habit of using it, than the other. Children who are pleased
by trifling coincidences, by allusions, and similitudes, should be taught with great care to
reason: when once they perceive the pleasure of demonstration, they will not be contented with
the inaccuracy of common analogies. A tutor is often tempted to teach pupils, who are fond
of allusions, by means of them, because he finds that they remember well whatever suits their
taste for resemblances. By following the real analogies between different arts and sciences,
and making use of the knowledge children have on one subject to illustrate another, we may
at once amuse their fancy, and cultivate their memory with advantage. Ideas laid up in this
manner, will recur in the same order, and will be ready for further use. When two ideas are
remembered by their mutual connection, surely it is best that they should both of them be substantially
useful; and not that one should attend merely to answer for the appearance of the other.

As men readily remember those things which are every day useful to them in business, what relates
to their amusements, or to their favourite tastes in arts, sciences, or in literature; so children
find no difficulty in remembering every thing which mixes daily with their little pleasures.
They value knowledge, which is useful and agreeable to them, as highly as we do; but they consider
only the present, and we take the future into our estimate. Children feel no interest in half
the things that are committed, with the most solemn recommendations, to the care of their memory.
It is in vain to tell them, "You must remember such a thing, because it will be useful to you
when you grow up to be a man." The child feels like a child, and has no idea of what he may
feel when he grows up to be a man. He tries to remember what he is desired, perhaps, because
he wishes to please his wiser friends; but if the ideas are remote from his every day business,
if nothing recall them but voluntary exertion, and if he be obliged to abstract his little
soul from every thing it holds dear, before he can recollect his lessons, they will have no
hold upon his memory; he will feel that recollection is too operose, and he will enjoy none
of the "pleasures of memory."

To induce children to exercise their memory, we must put them in situations where they may
be immediately rewarded for their exertion. We must create an interest in their minds--nothing
uninteresting is long remembered. In a large and literary family, it will not be difficult
to invent occupations for children which may exercise all their faculties. Even the conversation
of such a family, will create in their minds a desire for knowledge; what they hear, will recall
to their memory what they read; and if they are encouraged to take a reasonable share in conversation,
they will acquire the habit of listening to every thing that others say. By permitting children
to talk freely of what they read, we are more likely to improve their memory for books, than
by exacting from them formal repetitions of lessons.

Dr. Johnson, who is said to have had an uncommonly good memory, tells us, that when he was
a boy, he used, after he had acquired any fresh knowledge from his books, to run and tell it
to an old woman, of whom he was very fond. This exercise was so agreeable to him, that it imprinted
what he read upon his memory.

La Gaucherie, one of the preceptors of Henry IV. having found that he had to do with a young
prince of an impatient mind, and active genius, little suited to sedentary studies, instead
of compelling his pupil to read, taught him by means of conversation: anecdotes of heroes,
and the wise sayings of ancient philosophers, were thus imprinted upon the mind of this prince.
It is said, that Henry IV. applied, in his subsequent life, all the knowledge he had acquired
in this manner so happily, that learned men were surprised at his memory.[52]

By these observations, we by no means would insinuate, that application to books is unnecessary.
We are sensible that accurate knowledge upon any subject, cannot be acquired by superficial
conversation; that it can be obtained only by patient application. But we mean to point out,
that an early taste for literature may be excited in children by conversation; and that their
memory should be first cultivated in the manner which will give them the least pain. When there
is motive for application, and when habits of industry have been gradually acquired, we may
securely trust, that our pupils will complete their own education. Nor should we have reason
to fear, that those who have a good memory for all other things, should not be able to retain
all that is worth remembering in books. Children should never be praised for merely remembering
exactly what they read, they should be praised for selecting with good sense what is best worth
their attention, and for applying what they remember to useful purposes.

We have observed how much the habit of inventing increases the wish for knowledge, and increases
the interest men take in a number of ideas, which are indifferent to uncultivated and indolent
people. It is the same with children. Children who invent, exercise their memory with pleasure,
from the immediate sense of utility and success. A piece of knowledge, which they lay by in
their minds, with the hopes of making use of it in some future invention, they have more motives
for remembering, than what they merely learn by rote, because they are commanded to do so by
the voice of authority.

(June 19th, 1796.) S----, a boy of nine years old, of good abilities, was translating Ovid's
description of envy. When he came to the Latin word suffusa, he pronounced it as if it had
been spelled with a single f and a double s, sufussa; he made the same mistake several times:
at last his father, to try whether it would make him remember the right pronunciation, desired
him to repeat suffusa forty times. The boy did so. About three hours afterwards, the boy was
asked whether he recollected the word which he had repeated forty times. No, he said, he did
not; but he remembered that it meant diffused. His father recalled the word to his mind, by
asking him what letter it was that he had sounded as if it had been a double letter; he said
s. And what double letter did you sound as if it had been single? f, said the boy. Then, said
his father, you have found out that it was a word in which there was a double ff and a single
s, and that it is the Latin for diffused. Oh, suffusa, said the boy.

This boy, who had such difficulty in learning a single Latin word, by repeating it forty times,
showed in other instances, that he was by no means deficient in recollective memory. On the
contrary, though he read very little, and seldom learned any thing by rote, he applied happily
any thing that he read or heard in conversation.

(March 31st, 1796.) His father told him, that he had this morning seen a large horn at a gentleman's
in the neighbourhood. It was found thirty spades depth below the surface of the earth, in a
bog. With the horn was found a carpet, and wrapped up in the carpet a lump of tallow. "Now,"
said his father, "how could that lump of tallow come there? Or was it tallow, do you think?
Or what could it be?"

H---- (a boy of 14, brother to S----) said, he thought it might have been buried by some robbers,
after they had committed some robbery; he thought the lump was tallow.

S---- said, "Perhaps some dead body might have been wrapped up in the carpet and buried; and
the dead body might have turned into tallow."[53]

"How came you," said his father, "to think of a dead body's turning into tallow?"

"You told me," said the boy, "You read to me, I mean, an account of some dead bodies that had
been buried a great many years, which had turned into tallow."

"Spermaceti," you mean? "Yes."

S---- had heard the account he alluded to above two months before this time. No one in company
recollected it except himself, though several had heard it.

Amongst the few things which S---- had learnt by heart, was the Hymn to Adversity. A very slight
circumstance may show, that he did not get this poem merely as a tiresome lesson, as children
sometimes learn by rote what they do not understand, and which they never recollect except
in the arduous moments of formal repetition.

A few days after S---- had learned the Hymn to Adversity, he happened to hear his sister say
to a lady, "I observed you pitied me for having had a whitlow on my finger, more than any body
else did, because you have had one yourself." S----'s father asked him why he smiled. "Because,"
said S----, "I was thinking of the song,[54] the hymn to adversity;

    "And from her own she learned to melt at other's wo."

A recollective memory of books appears early in children who are not overwhelmed with them;
if the impressions made upon their minds be distinct, they will recur with pleasure to the
memory when similar ideas are presented.

July 1796. S---- heard his father read Sir Brook Boothby's excellent epitaph upon Algernon
Sidney; the following lines pleased the boy particularly:

    "Approach, contemplate this immortal name,
    Swear on this shrine to emulate his fame;
    To dare, like him, e'en to thy latest breath,
    Contemning chains, and poverty, and death."

S----'s father asked him why he liked these lines, and whether they put him in mind of any
thing that he had heard before. S---- said, "It puts me in mind of Hamilcar's making his son
Hannibal swear to hate the Romans, and love his countrymen eternally. But I like this much
better. I think it was exceedingly foolish and wrong of Hamilcar to make his son swear always
to hate the Romans."

Latin lessons are usually so very disagreeable to boys, that they seldom are pleased with any
allusions to them; but by a good management in a tutor, even these lessons may be associated
with agreeable ideas. Boys should be encouraged to talk and think about what they learn in
Latin, as well as what they read in English; they should be allowed to judge of the characters
described in ancient authors, to compare them with our present ideas of excellence, and thus
to make some use of their learning. It will then be not merely engraved upon their memory in
the form of lessons, it will be mingled with their notions of life and manners; it will occur
to them when they converse, and when they act; they will possess the admired talent for classical
allusion, as well as all the solid advantages of an unprejudiced judgment. It is not enough
that gentlemen should be masters of the learned languages, they must know how to produce their
knowledge without pedantry or affectation. The memory may in vain be stored with classical
precedents, unless these can be brought into use in speaking or writing without the parade
of dull citation, or formal introduction. "Sir," said Dr. Johnson, to some prosing tormentor,
"I would rather a man would knock me down, than to begin to talk to me of the Punic wars."
A public speaker, who rises in the House of Commons, with pedantry prepense to quote Latin
or Greek, is coughed or laughed down; but the beautiful unpremeditated classical allusions
of Burke or Sheridan, sometimes conveyed in a single word, seize the imagination irresistibly.

Since we perceive, that memory is chiefly useful as it furnishes materials for invention, and
that invention can greatly abridge the mere labour of accumulation, we must examine how the
inventive faculty can be properly exercised. The vague precept of, cultivate the memory and
invention of young people at the same time, will not inform parents how this is to be accomplished;
we trust, therefore, that we may be permitted, contrary to the custom of didactic writers,
to illustrate a general precept by a few examples; and we take these examples from real life,
because we apprehend, that fictions, however ingenious, will never advance the science of education
so much as simple experiments.

No elaborate theory of invention shall here alarm parents. It is a mistake, to suppose that
the inventive faculty can be employed only on important subjects; it can be exercised in the
most trifling circumstances of domestic life. Scarcely any family can be so unfortunately situated,
that they may not employ the ingenuity of their children without violent exertion, or any grand
apparatus. Let us only make use of the circumstances which happen every hour. Children are
interested in every thing that is going forward. Building, or planting, or conversation, or
reading; they attend to every thing, and from every thing might they with a little assistance
obtain instruction. Let their useful curiosity be encouraged; let them make a part of the general
society of the family, instead of being treated as if they had neither senses nor understanding.
When any thing is to be done, let them be asked to invent the best way of doing it. When they
see that their invention becomes immediately useful, they will take pleasure in exerting themselves.

June 4th, 1796. A lady, who had been ruling pencil lines for a considerable time, complained
of its being a tiresome operation; and she wished that a quick and easy way of doing it could
be invented. Somebody present said they had seen pens for ruling music books, which ruled four
lines at a time; and it was asked, whether a leaden rake could not be made to rule a sheet
of paper at once.

Mr. ---- said, that he thought such a pencil would not rule well; and he called to S----, (the
same boy we mentioned before) and asked him if he could invent any method of doing the business
better. S---- took about a quarter of an hour to consider; and he then described a little machine
for ruling a sheet of paper at a single stroke, which his father had executed for him. It succeeded
well, and this success was the best reward he could have.

Another day Mr. ---- observed, that the maid, whose business it was to empty a bucket of ashes
into an ash-hole, never could be persuaded to do it, because the ashes were blown against her
face by the wind; and he determined to invent a method which should make it convenient to her
to do as she was desired. The maid usually threw the ashes into a heap on the sheltered side
of a wall; the thing to be done was, to make her put the bucket through a hole in this wall,
and empty the ashes on the other side. This problem was given to all the children and grown
up persons in the family. One of the children invented the shelf, which, they said, should
be like part of the vane of a winnowing machine which they had lately seen; the manner of placing
this vane, another of the children suggested: both these ideas joined together, produced the
contrivance which was wanted.

A little model was made in wood of this bucket, which was a pretty toy. The thing itself was
executed, and was found useful.

June 8th, 1796. Mr. ---- was balancing a pair of scales very exactly, in which he was going
to weigh some opium; this led to a conversation upon scales and weighing. Some one said that
the dealers in diamonds must have very exact scales, as the difference of a grain makes such
a great difference in their value. S---- was very attentive to this conversation. M----told
him, that jewellers always, if they can, buy diamonds when the air is light, and sell them
when it is heavy. S---- did not understand the reason of this, till his father explained to
him the general principles of hydrostatics, and showed him a few experiments with bodies of
different specific gravity: these experiments were distinctly understood by every body present.
The boy then observed, that it was not fair of the jewellers to buy and sell in this manner;
they should not, said he, use these weights. Diamonds should be the weights. Diamonds should
be weighed against diamonds.

November, 1795. One day after dinner, the candles had been left for some time without being
snuffed; and Mr. ---- said he wished candles could be made which would not require snuffing.

Mrs. ******** thought of cutting the wick into several pieces before it was put into the candle,
that so, when it burned down to the divisions, the wick might fall off. M---- thought that
the wick might be tied tight round at intervals, before it was put into the candle; that when
it burned down to the places where it was tied, it would snap off: but Mr. ---- objected, that
the candle would most likely go out when it had burned down to her knots. It was then proposed
to send a stream of oxygene through the candle, instead of a wick. M---- asked if some substance
might not be used for wicks which should burn into powder, and fly off or sublime. Mr. ----
smiled at this, and said, "Some substance; some kind of air; some chemical mixture! A person
ignorant of chemistry always talks of, as an ignorant person in mechanics always says, "Oh,
you can do it somehow with a spring."

As the company could not immediately discover any way of making candles which should not require
to be snuffed, they proceeded to invent ways of putting out a candle at a certain time without
hands. The younger part of the company had hopes of solving this problem, and every eye was
attentively fixed upon the candle.

