LONDON: SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, HAMILTON, KENT & CO., LTD. 1916

 denotes an asterism, that is, a triangle comprising three asterices.
A carat symbol ^ indicates that the ensuing letters of the word are
superscript letters.]

PREFACE

One of the great mysteries of English history is the anonymous letter to Lord Monteagle, warning
him not to attend the opening of Parliament, appointed for the Fifth of November, 1605, which
is popularly supposed to have led to the discovery of the Gunpowder Plot. The writer's identity
was carefully concealed by the Government at the time; the intention being, as explained by
Lord Salisbury, "to leave the further judgment indefinite" regarding it. The official statements
are, therefore, as unsatisfactory as might be expected in a matter that, for State reasons,
has not been straightforwardly related. The letter, however, remaining and in fair preservation,
there was always the possibility of the handwriting being identified; and this, after the lapse
of over three hundred years, is now accomplished.

CONTENTS

                                                                    PAGE

    PREFACE                                                          v

    SECTION

    I. HISTORICAL ANALYSIS                                           1

    II. THE OFFICIAL STORY OF THE LETTER                             5

    III. IDENTIFICATION OF THE HANDWRITING                           9

    IV. THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL'S OPINION OF VAVASOUR'S GUILT          19

    V. FRANCIS TRESHAM'S CONFIDENCE WHEN IN THE TOWER               24

    VI. THE VAVASOURS AS DEPENDANTS OF THE TRESHAM FAMILY           25

LIST OF FACSIMILES

    1. The anonymous letter as delivered to Lord Monteagle, October 26,
    1605, warning him not to attend the opening of Parliament
    appointed for the Fifth of November (From the original letter in
    the Museum of the Public Record Office)                  Frontispiece

    2. A page of the MS. entitled "A Treatise against Lying," etc.,
    formerly belonging to Francis Tresham, of which the handwriting
    was attributed by his brother, William Tresham, to William
    Vavasour. Now in the Bodleian Library. (Laud MSS. 655,
    folio 44)                                                        [1]

    3. William Vavasour's handwriting in the letter to the Earl of
    Salisbury, dictated and signed by Francis Tresham when dying in
    the Tower, December 22, 1605 ("State Papers, Domestic," James I.,
    ccxvi. 211)                                                      [1]

        Stated by Vavasour to have been written by Mrs. Tresham.
        On March 24, 1605-6, he confessed that he wrote it and signed
        a note to it to that effect.

    4. William Vavasour's handwriting in his untrue statement, written in
    the presence of the Lieutenant of the Tower, that No. 3 was
    written by Mrs. Tresham. Dated March 23, 1605-6 ("State
    Papers, Domestic," James I., ccxvi. 207)                         [1]

       [***]To avoid detection of his falsehood, he writes a hand
       quite different from his ordinary writing in Nos. 2 and 3, thus
       producing a hand which is in itself identical with his former
       disguised writing as seen in the anonymous letter (No. 1).

    5. George Vavasour's handwriting on the last leaf, which he renewed
    for Francis Tresham, of the MS. entitled "A Treatise against
    Lying," etc. (Laud MSS. 655, folio 61)                To face page 26

The Identification of the Writer of the Anonymous Letter to Lord Monteagle

I

HISTORICAL ANALYSIS

Francis Tresham, of Rushton, in Northamptonshire, has recently (September 11, 1605) succeeded
his father, Sir Thomas Tresham (a great sufferer for the Roman Catholic religion), in an inheritance
of at least five thousand a year, in present money; after having, as he says, spent most of
his time overburdened with debts and wants, and resolves within himself to spend his days quietly.
His first cousin, Robert Catesby, being hard-up with funds exhausted in financing the scheme
known as the Gunpowder Plot, seeing in Tresham the chance of obtaining a further supply (though
previously distrusting him), induces him, in the interests of their religion, to join the conspiracy,
of which he thus becomes the thirteenth, and last, sworn conspirator (October 14, 1605). Catesby
is careful to impose the oath of secrecy before fully disclosing the plot; of which Tresham,
on hearing, entirely disapproves, and endeavours to dissuade his cousin from, or even to defer
it; meanwhile offering him the use of his own purse if he will do so. Finding he cannot prevail
with him, he is very urgent that the Lords Monteagle and Stourton, particularly the former,
may be warned, each having married Tresham's sisters; but Catesby can give no definite assurance.
Tresham then intends, as he says, to get the conspirators shipped away, and to inform the Government
by some unknown, or anonymous, means.

Tresham has a serving-man named William Vavasour, who attended Sir Thomas Tresham, and who,
with his elder brother, George Vavasour (whose education Tresham has particularly encouraged),
and their sister Muriel (gentlewoman to Lady Monteagle who is the daughter of "Muriel" Lady
Tresham) are favoured dependants of the Tresham family, being the children of an old and much
valued Catholic servant. Both George and William are confidentially employed by Tresham as
amanuenses, in transcribing religious, or treasonable, treatises of the time.

Lord Monteagle unexpectedly orders a supper to be prepared (October 26, 1605) at his house
at Hoxton (belonging to his brother-in-law Tresham), and where he has not been for some months.
As he is about to go to supper, a letter is handed to him by his footman, to whom it has been
given in the street by "an unknown man of a reasonable tall personage," who knows that he will
find him at so unfrequented a residence. Monteagle opens the letter, which is anonymous, pretends
he cannot understand it, and shows it to his secretary, Thomas Ward, who, he is aware, is familiar
with some of the conspirators; whom Ward, the next evening, tells of the receipt of the letter,
which Monteagle at once takes to Whitehall, about three miles away, where he finds the Earl
of Salisbury (Principal Secretary of State) with other lords of the Council together assembled,
"ready for supper." The Government censor, or suppress, the name of the place where the letter
was delivered. The conspirators and the Jesuit priests, who are involved in the plot through
the confessional, at once suspect Tresham; and Catesby and Winter directly charge him with
having betrayed them, which he denies, while urging them to escape to France, and giving them
money for the purpose. Although Tresham is a sworn conspirator, he alone remains behind and
at large, after Fawkes's arrest (November 4-5, 1605), and flight of the others into the country,
and offers his services to the Government. A week later he is taken to the Tower, where being
ill, his wife and serving-man, William Vavasour, and a maid servant constantly attend him;
an indulgence never under any circumstances permitted to anyone who was really a prisoner and
upon a capital charge there. Becoming worse, he dictates a letter for Vavasour to write to
Lord Salisbury, retracting a statement that he has been induced to make respecting Father Garnet,
and dies (December 23, 1605). This letter, or dying statement, being misunderstood, is considered
to be so incredible that the writing is particularly inquired into. Vavasour thereupon, in
the presence of the Lieutenant of the Tower, writes an untrue statement (consequently using
a hand quite different from his ordinary writing and, in itself, identical with the writing
of the anonymous letter), asserting that his master's dying statement was written by Mrs. Tresham
(though in every way proper for Vavasour to have written), which she at once repudiates and
says that Vavasour wrote it. He is then examined in the Tower by Chief Justice Popham and Attorney-General
Coke, when he confesses that he wrote the dying statement at his master's dictation; and had
denied it "for fear." Fear of what? In case the writing should bring into question some other
and less innocent letter written by him for his master.

Upon Tresham's death in the Tower, the Lieutenant writes to Salisbury (December 23, 1605) of
the "marvellous" confidence shown by Tresham and his friends that had he survived, they feared
not the course of justice. Later, having left no male issue, his inheritance passes to his
brother, who is described as of Rushton, when created a baronet on the institution of that
Order by James the First, the very king whom the plotters intended to destroy; and although
a baronetcy at that time was merely a monetary distinction or transaction, some discrimination
was no doubt made in the bestowal or disposal of that dignity, which probably would not have
been conferred upon Catesby's son, who was then living, even if he had been able to afford
it after the forfeiture of his family inheritance.

The Attorney-General, at Father Garnet's trial (March 28, 1606), pronounces Vavasour as being,
in his opinion, "deeply guilty" in the treason; yet he is not even brought to trial, while
other serving-men are tried and executed; although Lord Salisbury expressly declares that he
will esteem his life unworthily given him, when he shall be found slack in bringing to prosecution
and execution ALL who are in any way concerned in the treason; and his exertions in the matter
are accounted to be so successful, that he is rewarded with the Order of the Garter.

Francis Tresham's inheritance remains in the family; and his serving-man, the "deeply guilty"
William Vavasour, goes free.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: These facsimiles are issued separately in order to facilitate comparison.]

II

THE OFFICIAL STORY OF THE LETTER

The authentic, or rather the official, story of the delivery of the letter, as published by
the Government at the time, states that on Saturday, October 26, 1605, Lord Monteagle "being
in his own lodging, ready to go to supper, at seven o'clock[2] at night, one of his footmen
(whom he had sent on an errand over the street) was met by an unknown man, of a reasonable
tall personage, who delivered him a letter, charging him to put it in my lord his master's
hands; which my lord no sooner received, but that having broken it open, and perceiving the
same to be of an unknown and somewhat unlegible hand, and without either date or subscription,
called one of his men[3] to help him to read it. But no sooner did he conceive the strange
contents thereof, although he was somewhat perplexed what construction to make of it (as whether
of a matter of consequence, as indeed it was, or whether some foolish devised pasquil, by some
of his enemies to scare him from his attendance at the Parliament), yet did he, as a most dutiful
and loyal subject, conclude not to conceal it, whatever might come of it, whereupon notwithstanding
the lateness and darkness of the night in that season of the year, he presently repaired to
his Majesty's palace at Whitehall, and there delivered the same to the Earl of Salisbury, his
Majesty's principal Secretary."

Neither the official version nor any State paper mentions the place where the letter was delivered,
which in such a mysterious matter would be the first inquiry. "Own lodging" at that time signified
a person's house. Hoxton is generally stated to have been the place of delivery,[4] which was
then a single street in the outlying suburb on the great north road; at a house which Monteagle
is known[5] to have occupied, belonging to his brother-in-law, Francis Tresham; and this ownership
may have been Salisbury's reason for not naming it, which so curious an omission seems to imply.

    (Addressed)   "To the ryght honorable
    the lord Monteagle."

It was the opinion of the other conspirators, as well as of the Jesuit priests who became involved
in the plot through the confessional, that the warning letter originated with Francis Tresham,
whose sister was Lady Monteagle, and another sister had married Lord Stourton; and Tresham
had been most earnest with Catesby that those two lords, particularly Monteagle, should be
warned. In each instance, Catesby was careful to impose the oath and engage the faith of the
conspirator, before disclosing the plot; and Tresham, the thirteenth and last, sworn conspirator,
on hearing the particulars, entirely disapproved of the conspiracy, from which he tried to
dissuade Catesby, offering him the use of his own purse if he would even defer it.[8] Tresham
could indeed have desired nothing less than to become involved in such a matter. His father
had recently died, and he had succeeded to a considerable property,[9] which alone induced
his first cousin Catesby to bring him into the plot. As Tresham wrote when in the Tower:[10]
"I thank God I am owner of such a fortune as is able to afford me what I desire, the comfort
whereof is so much the sweeter unto me, as I have spent most of my time overburthened with
debts and wants, and had resolved within myself to spend my days quietly."[11] He acknowledged
that his intentions with regard to the other conspirators were "to ship them away that they
might have no means left them to contrive any more ... then to have taken a course to have
given the State advertisement by some unknown means."[11] He was consequently the only conspirator
who remained behind and at large after Fawkes was taken and the others had fled. There can
be no reasonable doubt that Tresham, though not the writer, was the sender of the letter; and
upon this hypothesis all investigators must go, as there is none other at all likely.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 2: Salisbury, in his letter to Sir Charles Cornwallis, Ambassador at Madrid (November
9), gives the hour as six o'clock.]

[Footnote 3: This was his secretary, Thomas Ward, who was known to Monteagle as a friend of
some of the conspirators (as Monteagle himself was), and one of whom, Ward, the next morning
told of the receipt of the letter. "As a plan concocted by Monteagle and Tresham to stop the
plot, and at the same time to secure the escape of their guilty friends, the little comedy
at Hoxton was admirably concocted" ("What Gunpowder Plot was," by S.R. Gardiner, D.C.L., 1897,
p. 124).]

[Footnote 4: Father John Gerard (1564-1637) gives particulars of the delivery of the letter
at Hoxton in his contemporary "Narrative of the Gunpowder Plot," published in 1872.]

[Footnote 5: "Calendar of Tresham Papers," p. 132.]

[Footnote 6: The word "yowe" (you), here cancelled in the original, indicates the writer's
first thoughts, and, no doubt, his real meaning.]

[Footnote 7: Various attempts have been made to explain the nature of the danger alluded to,
which the King and Salisbury at the time, and others since, have understood as in allusion
to the danger of the plot. Jardine describes it as "mere nonsense" ("Gunpowder Plot," 1835,
p. 73). But the meaning clearly is the danger of the letter being discovered. The counsel may
do him good, and can do him no harm, except through the danger of keeping the letter, which
being burnt, the danger is past. There is no allusion intended to the danger of the plot, as
that, unlike the danger of the discovery of the letter, could not be affected by burning the
letter.]

[Footnote 8: Tresham's statement made when in the Tower ("State Papers, Domestic," James I.,
xvi. 63).]

[Footnote 9: The rental of the Rushton Hall estate alone, as given in the "Return of Owners
of Lands" in 1873, is £5,044 yearly. The Tresham family also owned property at Hoxton and elsewhere.]

[Footnote 10: He died in the Tower six weeks after writing that letter, aged thirty-seven.]

[Footnote 11: "State Papers, Domestic," James I., xvi., 63.]

III

IDENTIFICATION OF THE HANDWRITING

The style of handwriting of the letter, as seen in the facsimile, is not in this writer's opinion,
from a familiarity of thirty years with old scripts, apart from the disguise, the hand that
an educated person would write at the time, but is essentially a commonplace and, no doubt
intentionally, rather slovenly style of handwriting. The use of small "i's" for the first person
seems, in view of modern usage, to suggest an illiterate writer; but educated writers, even
the King,[12] then occasionally lapsed into using them. In the letter, however, they are consistently
and may have been purposely used, to avert suspicion from being the work of an educated person;
though an illiterate appearance would rather cause such a letter (if genuine) to be disregarded,
than to deter a nobleman from attending the opening of Parliament, for which leave or licence
was required.

The handwriting has been variously ascribed, but the direction of this inquiry is indicated
by the incautious admission made by Sir Edward Coke, the Attorney-General at the trial, respecting
the real manner in which the plot was discovered. Salisbury's careful instructions to the Attorney-General
for the trial are with the State papers, in which he says: "Next, you must in any case, when
you speak of the letter which was the first ground of discovery, absolutely disclaim that any
of these" (the conspirators) "wrote it, though you leave the further judgment indefinite who
else it should be."[13]

Salisbury thus, in effect, requires Coke by absolutely disclaiming that any of the conspirators
wrote (he does not say "sent") the letter to Monteagle, and by which alone the treason was
discovered, to declare in Court, as upon the authority of the Government, that therefore none
of the conspirators divulged the plot; which, in any case, could be true only so far as the
disclosure to the Government was concerned. Coke, however, for some reason--perhaps because
he was not fully in Salisbury's confidence respecting the letter--describes the real manner
of the discovery, according to his own knowledge. Towards the close of his speech for the prosecution,
he said: "The last consideration is concerning the admirable discovery of this treason, which
was by one of themselves who had taken the oath and sacrament, as hath been said against his
own will;[14] the means by a dark and doubtful letter to my Lord Monteagle." This, together
with Salisbury's statement that none of the conspirators wrote the letter, shows that the divulging
of the plot preceded the sending of the letter,[15] which was not, therefore, as is popularly
supposed, the means by which the plot was discovered, except to the general public.

Hitherto those who have attempted this identification have invariably sought amongst such as
are likely to have written the letter for a handwriting resembling the disguised writing, which
seems a strange method of investigation, as surely the object of a disguised hand[16] would
be to make the general appearance as unlike the writer's ordinary hand as possible? The writing
being in a set and rather large character, such is the style they have sought for and found,
but in a much more refined hand and without arriving at any satisfactory result.

It seems, however, reasonable to suspect that this set and rather large character may be what
principally constitutes the disguise, and that the writer's ordinary hand would be different.
The manner in which the lines are forced upwards at the right side, shows that the writer has
had difficulty in maintaining the large, set, regular character which would push an unpractised
hand in that direction.

Among the more prominent peculiarities, as seen in the facsimile (No. 1), the writer invariably
uses the long "s" as an initial letter in the ten examples that occur, even when the letter
is not a capital. Such consistent use was usual in legal but not in private hands, though within
a word the long "s" was very common. The "t's" are peculiar; being made with a twist or short
line at foot, crossed midway projecting from each side, while a stroke is put on the top as
a disguised, or elaborated touch. The "w's" finish with a side loop. Some of the "g's" show
flat tops; the cypher portion being commenced from the left side with a stroke along the top.
The tails of the "y's" are brought forward. The "hanger" portion of the "h's" invariably drags
below the line which, though not unusual, again indicates in the numerous examples that occur
the writer's habit; while an unusually broad quill has been used to further the disguise.[17]

After the plot was discovered, Fawkes arrested, and the other conspirators had escaped into
the country, Tresham remained in London and even offered his services to the Government. A
week later he was taken to the Tower where, being ill, his wife also came, and he was attended
by his serving-man, William Vavasour, and his maid, Joan Syer. He was induced "to avoid ill-usage,"
to say that he thought Father Garnet, against whom the Government desired to obtain evidence,
had written a letter in furtherance of what was known as the Spanish Treason, in 1602. Six
weeks later, his illness becoming dangerous, he dictated to his man Vavasour a letter to Lord
Salisbury, retracting his statement respecting Garnet, as being more than he really knew; declaring
upon his salvation that he had not seen him "in sixteen years before," clearly meaning before
the Spanish Treason in 1602, which is the entire subject of his letter and the fact; and not,
as the Government misunderstood him to mean, before the then time of writing in 1605. This
statement, written by Vavasour (Fascimile No. 3), was signed by Tresham, who asked his wife
to deliver it personally to Lord Salisbury, and within three hours died:[18]

    "I being sent for before yo^r Lordships in the Tow^r, you told me y^t
    (that) it was Confessed by Mr Winter, y^t he went upon some
    imploym^{ts} in ye Queens time into Spayne & y^t yo^r L. did nominate
    to me out of his Confession all the partyes names y^t were acquainted
    therew^{th} namely 4 besides himselfe[19] & yet sayd y^t ther were
    some left for me to name. I desired yo^r L. y^t I might not answere
    therunto bycause it was a matter y^t was done in the Queens time and
    since I had my pardon.

    "Yo^r Lordships wold not accept of y^t answere, but sayd y^t I should
    be made to speake therunto. And I might thanke my self If I had beene
    worse used than I had beene since my Coming to the howse[19] I told
    yo^r Lords^p (to avoyde ill usage)[19] y^t I thought Mr. Walley[20]
    was p'cured to write his letter for the furthering of this Jeorney. Now
    my LL. having bethoughte myselfe of this businesse (being to weake to
    use my owne hand in writing this) w^{ch} I do deliver here upon my
    salvacon to be trew as near as I can call to mynde, desiring y^t my
    form'r Confession may be called in & y^t this may stand for truthe. It
    was more than I knew y^t Mr. Walley[20] was used herein, & to give your
    Lords'p p'ofe besids my oathe, I had not seene him in sixteene yere
    before, nor never had messuadge[21] nor letter from him & to this
    purpose I desired Mr. Leiftenant to lett me see my Confession who told
    me I should not unlesse I wold inlarge it w^{ch} he did p'ceive I had
    no meaning to doe.

    (Signed) Francis Tresame.

    "24 m'ch 1605 [-6].
    This noate was of my owne
    hand writing
    By me Willia' Vavasore."

Tresham's statement being misunderstood to mean that he had not seen Garnet for sixteen years,[22]
while the Government knew from Tresham himself[23] that he had recently been in Garnet's company,
was considered such awful perjury to commit when dying as to be incredible. Coke wrote to Salisbury:
"It is true that no man may judge in this case, for inter pontem et fontem he might find grace;
but it is the most fearful example that I ever knew of to be made so evident as now this is."
Salisbury at the trial said: "Mr. Tresham in his lifetime accused you, Garnet, before the lords,
yet now upon his salvation, he under his hand did excuse you, being at the very point of death,
saying he had not seen you in sixteen years, which matter, I assure you, before you were taken
shook me very much. But, thanks be to God, since the coming of the King, I have known so much
of your doctrine and practices, that hereafter they shall not much trouble me." The writing
of Tresham's dying statement was, therefore, particularly, inquired into, and Vavasour had
to make a written statement respecting his knowledge of it; evidently for comparison of the
handwriting. This appears to have so alarmed him that in his statement (Fascimile No. 4), written
in the presence of Sir William Waad, Lieutenant of the Tower, he asserted that the dying statement
was written by Mrs. Tresham, at her husband's dictation:

    "I do rememb' y^t my m^r did cause my m^{res} to write a note wherto he
    did did (sic) bid the mayd and me beare witnes y^t he did set his
    hand unto it, but it was not reade at y^t time but since m^{res}
    Tressa' did reede it to me and sayd it was y^t noate y^t my m^r did
    bid us beare witnesse and she comaunded me to carye a letter to S^r
    Waulter Cope and to desire him to deliver the noate inclosed to my
    Lorde of Salsburye and further my m^r did say y^t he cold not write
    him selfe bycause he was not able but he did sett his hande unto it
    as before I have sayd and this was done some day before his death.

    "(Signed) By me William Vavasor.

    "23. March 1605 [-6].
    Taken before us:
    (Signed) W. Waad.
    Willus Lane."

If for any reason Vavasour did not desire his writing to be brought into question, there could
be no harm, beyond his falsehood, in naming Mrs. Tresham as the writer of that letter, as neither
could possibly be blamed for writing such a statement for his master. The question arises,
whether Vavasour would have ventured upon an untrue statement, except through panic, unless
feeling sure of Mrs. Tresham's support? As Mrs. Tresham throughout made no attempt to conceal
the truth for Vavasour, she may have been unaware of any reason for diverting inquiry from
himself respecting letters written for his master. Even if Mrs. Tresham had been willing to
connive at his falsehood, she could not have done so; as Salisbury, being convinced that she
not only wrote but composed her husband's dying statement and induced him to sign to shield
Father Garnet, was so incensed against her that he declined to see her,[24] or even to receive
her husband's statement, when she tried to deliver it. She was therefore obliged, in view of
possible consequences to herself, to own[25] that Vavasour wrote the statement at her husband's
dictation. Vavasour was then examined in the Tower by Chief Justice Popham and by Coke, when
he confessed[26] that he wrote the dying statement at his master's dictation, and had denied
it through fear, which could only arise from having written some other and less innocent letter
for him.

