Mr. Churchill's declared intention ultimately "to intercept all future unearned increment"
of the land is certainly a tremendous step towards collectivism, as it would ultimately involve
the nationalization of perhaps a third of the total wealth of society. With railways and monopolies
of all kinds also in government hands, a very large part of the industrial capital of the country
would be owned by the State, and, though all agricultural capital, and therefore the larger
part of the total, remained in private hands, we are certainly justified in calling such a
state of society capitalist collectivism.

But not one of the elements of this collectivism is a novelty. Railroads are owned by governments
in most countries, and monopolies often are. The partial appropriation of the "unearned increment"
is by no means new, since a similar policy is being adopted in Germany at the present moment,
and is favored not by the radicals alone, but by the most conservative forces in the country;
namely, the party of landed Prussian nobility. Count Posadovsky, a former minister, has written
a pamphlet in which he urges that the State should buy up the land in and about the cities,
and also that it should fix a definite limit beyond which land values must not rise. Nearly
all the chief cities of Prussia, more than a hundred, are enforcing such a tax in a moderate
form, and the conservatives in the Reichstag proposed that the national government should be
given a right to tax in the same field. Their bill was enacted, and, in the second half of
1911, the German government, it was estimated, would raise over $3,000,000 by this tax, and
in 1912 it is expected to give $5,000,000. This tax, which is collected when land changes hands
by sale or exchanges, rises gradually to 30 per cent when the increase has been 290 per cent
or more. Of course this scale is likely to be still further raised and to be made more steep
as the tax becomes more and more popular.

Mr. Churchill's defense of the new policy of the British government is as significant as the
new laws it has enacted:--

     "You may say that unearned increment of the land," he says, "is on
     all-fours with the profit gathered by one of those American
     speculators who engineer a corner in corn, or meat, or cotton, or
     some other vital commodity, and that the unearned increment in
     land is reaped by the land monopolist in exact proportion, not to
     the service but to the disservice done. It is monopoly which is
     the keynote; and where monopoly prevails, the greater the injury to
     society the greater the reward of the monopolist will be....

     "Every form of enterprise, every step in material progress, is only
     undertaken after the land monopolist has skimmed the cream off for
     himself, and every where to-day the man, or the public body, who
     wishes to put land to its highest use is forced to pay a
     preliminary fine in land values to the man who is putting it to an
     inferior use, and in some cases to no use at all.... If there is a
     rise in wages, rents are able to move forward because the workers
     can afford to pay a little more. If the opening of a new railway
     or a new tramway, or the institution of an improved service of
     workmen's trains, or the lowering of fares, or a new invention, or
     any other public convenience affords a benefit to the workers in
     any particular district, it becomes easier for them to live, and
     therefore the landlord and the ground landlord, one on top of the
     other, are able to charge them more for the privilege of living
     there." (Italics mine.)[15]

But we cannot believe that the government of Great Britain, which draws so much of its support
from the wealthy free trade merchants and manufacturers has been persuaded to adopt this new
principle so much by the argument that a land rent weighs on the working classes, though it
is true that the manufacturer may have to pay for this in higher money wages, as it has by
that other argument of Mr. Churchill's that it weighs directly on business.

     "The manufacturer proposing to start a new industry," he says,
     "proposing to erect a great factory offering employment to
     thousands of hands, is made to pay such a price for his land that
     the purchase price hangs around the neck of his whole business,
     hampering his competitive power in every market, clogging far more
     than any foreign tariff in his export competition; and the land
     values strike down through the profits of the manufacturer on to
     the wages of the workman. The railway company wishing to build a
     new line finds that the price of land which yesterday was only
     rated at its agricultural value has risen to a prohibitive figure
     the moment it was known that the new line was projected; and either
     the railway is not built, or, if it is, it is built only on terms
     which largely transfer to the landowner the profits which are due
     to shareholders and the privileges which should have accrued to
     the traveling public." (My italics.)[16]

No doubt Mr. Churchill's failure to mention shippers was inadvertent.

It was a practical application of these business principles and chiefly in the interest of
the employers, manufacturers, investors, and shippers, that the State decided, as a first step,
to take 20 per cent of all the increase in land values from the present date and to levy an
annual tax of one fifth of one per cent on all land held for speculation, i.e. used neither
for agricultural nor for industrial nor building purposes.

The collectivist policy, that governments should undertake to reorganize industry and to develop
the industrial efficiency of the population, is a relatively new one, however, and where non-Socialist
Liberals and Radicals are adopting it, they do so as a rule with apologies. For while such
reforms can be considered as investments which in the long run repay not only the community
as a whole, but also the business interests, they involve a considerable initial cost, even
beyond what can be raised by the gradual expropriation of city land rents, and the question
at once arises as to who is to pay the rest of the bill. The supporter of the new reforms answers
that the business interests should do so, since the development of industry, which is the object
of this expenditure, is more profitable to them than to other classes. While Mr. Churchill
declares that Liberalism attacks landlordism and monopoly only, and not capital itself, as
Socialism does, he is at great pains to show that the cost of the elaborate program of social
reform is borne not by monopolist alone, but by that larger section of the business interests
vaguely known as those possessing "Special Privileges." In distributing the new taxes in the
House of Commons, the question to be asked of each class of wealth is, he says, "By what process
was it got?" and a distinction is to be made, not between monopoly and competitive business,
but "between wealth which is the fruit of productive enterprise and industry or of individual
skill, and wealth which represents the capture by individuals of socially created values."[17]

"A special burden," says Mr. Churchill, "is to be laid upon certain forms of wealth which are
clearly social in their origin and have not at any point been derived from a useful or productive
process on the part of their possessors."[18] And since all income "derived from dividends,
rent, or interest," is, according to Mr. Churchill, unearned increment, it is evident that
nearly every business, all being beneficiaries, ought to share the burden of the new reforms.[19]
At the same time he hastens to reassure his wealthy supporters, especially among merchants
and shippers, on grounds explained below by Mr. Lloyd George that the new taxes will not rise
faster than the new profits they will bring in, that they "will not appreciably affect, have
not appreciably affected, the comfort, the status, or even the style of living of any class
in the United Kingdom."[20]

Mr. Lloyd George in proposing the so-called Socialistic Budget of 1910 reminded the representatives
of the propertied interests [he might have added "in proportion to their wealth"] that the
State, in which they all owned a share, should not be looked upon so narrowly as a capitalistic
enterprise. They could afford to allow the State to wait longer for its returns.

     "A State can and ought to take a longer and a wider view of its
     investments," said Mr. Lloyd George, "than individuals. The
     resettlement of deserted and impoverished parts of its own
     territories may not bring to its coffers a direct return which
     would reimburse it fully for its expenditure; but the indirect
     enrichment of its resources more than compensate it for any
     apparent and immediate loss. The individual can rarely afford to
     wait; a State can; the individual must judge of the success of his
     enterprise by the testimony given for it by his bank book; a State
     keeps many ledgers, not all in ink, and when we wish to judge of
     the advantage derived by a country from a costly experiment, we
     must examine all those books before we venture to pronounce
     judgment....

     "We want to do more in the way of developing the resources of our
     own country....

     "The State can help by instruction, by experiment, by
     organization, by direction, and even, in certain cases which are
     outside the legitimate sphere of individual enterprise, by
     incurring direct responsibility. I doubt whether there is a great
     industrial country in the world which spends less money on work
     directly connected with the development of its resources than we
     do. Take, if you like, and purely as an illustration, one industry
     alone,--agriculture,--of all industries the most important for the
     permanent well-being of any land. Examine the budgets of foreign
     lands,--we have the advantage in other directions,--but examine and
     compare them with our own, and Honorable Members will be rather
     ashamed at the contrasts between the wise and lavish generosity of
     countries much poorer than ours and the short-sighted and niggardly
     parsimony with which we dole out small sums of money for the
     encouragement of agriculture in our country....

     "We are not getting out of the land anything like what it is
     capable of endowing us with. Of the enormous quantity of
     agricultural and dairy produce, and fruit, and the timber imported
     into this country, a considerable portion could be raised on our
     own lands."[21]

The proposed industrial advance is to be secured largely at the expense of capital, but for
its ultimate profit. The capitalists are to pay the initial cost. Mr. Lloyd George is very
careful to remind them that even if the present income tax were doubled, five years of the
phenomenal yet steady growth of the income of the rich and well-to-do who pay this tax, would
leave them as well off as they were before. He proposes to leave the total capital in private
hands intact on the pretext that it is needed as "an available reserve for national emergencies."
And as an evidence of this he refused to increase the existing rate of inheritance tax levied
against the very largest estates (15 per cent on estates of more than £3,000,000). Though up
to this point he graduated this tax more steeply than before, and nothing could be more widely
popular than a special attack on such colossal estates, Mr. Lloyd George draws the line at
15 per cent, on the ground that a large part of the income from such estates goes into investments,
and more confiscatory legislation might seriously affect the normal increase of the capital
and "the available reserves of taxation" of the country.[22]

Mr. Lloyd George does not fail to guarantee to capital as a whole, "honest capital," that it
will suffer no loss from his reforms. "I am not one of those who advocate confiscation," he
said several years ago, "and at any rate as far as I am concerned honest capital, capital put
in honest industries for the development of the industry, the trade, the commerce, of this
country will have nothing to fear from any proposal I shall ever be responsible for submitting
to the Parliament of this realm." (My italics.)[23]

Mr. Lloyd George is well justified, then, in ridiculing the idea that he is waging war against
industry or property or trying to destroy riches. He not only disproves this accusation by
pointing to the capitalist character of his collectivist program, but boasts that the richest
men in the House of Commons are on the Liberal side, together with hundreds of thousands of
the men who are building up trade and business.

And the attitude of the Radicals of the present British government is the same as that of capitalist
collectivists elsewhere. However certain vested interests may suffer, there is nowhere any
tendency to weaken capitalism as a whole. Capitalism is to be the chief beneficiary of the
new movement.

There are many differences of opinion, however, as to the ultimate effect of the collectivist
program. In Great Britain, which gives us our best illustration, there are Liberals who claim
that it is Socialistic and others who deny that it has anything to do with Socialism; Conservatives
who accept part of the program, and others who reject the whole as being Socialistic; Socialists,
who claim that their ideas have been incorporated in the last two Budgets, and other Socialists
who deny that either had anything in common with their principles.

While it is certain that the present policy of the British government is by no means directed
against the power or interests of the capitalist class as a whole, and in no way resembles
that of the Socialists, were not Socialist arguments used to support the government's position,
and may not these lead towards a Socialist policy?

Certainly some of the principles laid down seem at first sight to have been Socialistic enough.
For example, when Mr. Churchill said that incomes from dividends, rent, and interest are unearned,
or when Mr. Lloyd George cried out: "Who is responsible for the scheme of things whereby one
man is engaged through life in grinding labor to win a bare and precarious subsistence for
himself, and when, at the end of his days, he claims at the hands of the community he served,
a poor pension of eight pence a day, he can only get it through a revolution, and another man
who does not toil receives every hour of the day, every hour of the night, whilst he slumbers,
more than his poor neighbor receives in a whole year of toil? Where did the table of that law
come from? Whose fingers inscribed it?"[24]

Lord Rosebery has pointed to the extremely radical nature of Mr. Lloyd George's arguments.
The representatives of the Government had urged, he said, that the land should be taxed without
mercy:--

     "(1) because its existence is not due to the owner;

     "(2) because it is limited in quantity;

     "(3) because it owes nothing of its value to anything the owner
     does or spends;

     "(4) because it is absolutely necessary for existence and
     production."[25]

Lord Rosebery says, justly, that all these propositions except the last apply to many other
forms of property than land, as, for instance, to government bonds, and that it certainly would
be Socialism to attempt to confiscate these by taxation.

Lord Rosebery's task would have become even easier later, when Mr. Lloyd George enlarged his
attack on the landlords definitely into an attack against the idle upper classes, who with
their dependents he reckoned at two million persons. He accused this class of constituting
an intolerable burden on the community, said that its existence was the symptom of the disease
of society, and that only bold remedies could help. The whole class of inactive capitalists
he viewed as a load both on the non-capitalist, wage-earning, salaried and professional classes,
and on the active capitalists. Mr. Lloyd George argues with his capitalist supporters that
capitalism will be all the stronger when freed from its parasites. But Lord Rosebery could
answer that the active could no more be distinguished from the passive capitalists than landowners
from bondholders.

An article in the world's leading Socialist newspaper, Vorwaerts, of Berlin, shows that many
Socialists even regarded these speeches as revolutionary:--

     "The Radical wing of the British Liberals," it said, "is leading
     the attack with ideal recklessness and lust of battle. It is
     conducting the agitation in language which in Germany is
     customarily used only by a 'red revolutionist.' If the German
     Junker (landlord conservative) were to read these speeches, he
     would swear that they were delivered by the Social Democrats of the
     reddest dye, so ferociously do they contrast between the rich and
     the poor. They appeal to the passion of the people; they exploit
     social distinctions in the manner best calculated to fire popular
     anger against the Lords.

     "In the heart of battle the Liberals are employing language which
     at other times they would have considered twice. Their words will
     some day be assuredly turned against them, when more than the mere
     Budget or the existence of the Lords is at stake. When the
     Liberals, allied with the conservative enemy of to-day, are
     fighting the working classes, the Socialists will recall this
     language as proof that the Liberals themselves recognize the
     injustice of the existing order.

     "Mr. Lloyd George made such a speech at Newcastle that the seeds he
     is planting may first bring forth Liberal fruit, but there can be
     no doubt that Socialism will eventually reap the harvest. His
     arguments must arouse the workingmen, and when they have accustomed
     themselves to look at things from this standpoint it is certain
     that once standing before the safes of the industrial capitalists
     they will never close their eyes."

It is perhaps true that the Socialists will at some future day reap the harvest from Mr. Lloyd
George's and Mr. Churchill's campaigns, though a careful analysis of the expressions of these
statesmen will show that they have said nothing and done nothing in contradiction to their
State-capitalistic or "State Socialist" standpoint.

There is no doubt that the principle of the new taxes and the new expenditure these statesmen
are introducing is radical, and that it marks a great stride towards a collectivist form of
capitalism. Let us assume that development continues along the lines of their present policies.
In a very few years the increased expenditure on social reform will be greater than the increased
expenditure on army and navy, and the increase of direct and graduated taxes that fall on the
upper classes will be greater than that of the indirect taxes that fall on the masses. We will
assume even that military expenditure and indirect taxes on articles the working people consume
will begin some day to decrease, while graduated taxes directed against the very wealthy and
social reform expenditures rise until they quite overshadow them. There is every reason to
believe that the social reformers of the British and other governments hope for such an outcome
and expect it. This would be in no way inconsistent with their policy of subordinating everything,
to use one of their expressions, to "that trade and commerce which constitutes the source of
our wealth."

For the collectivist expenditures, intended to increase the national product through governmental
enterprises for the promotion of industry, and for raising the industrial efficiency of the
workers, would be introduced gradually, and would soon be accompanied by results which would
show that they paid financially. And finally, even if railways and monopolies were nationalized
and their profits as well as all the future rise in land value went to the State to be used
for these purposes, as Mr. Churchill hopes, and even if a method could be found by which a
large part of the income of the idle rich would be confiscated without touching the active
capital of the merchant and manufacturer, the position of the latter classes, through this
policy, might become still more superior relatively to that of the masses than it is at present.
The industrial capitalists might even control a larger share of the national income and exercise
a still more powerful influence over the State than they do to-day.

The classes that the more or less collectivist budgets of 1910 and 1911 actually do favor,
those whose economic and political power they actually do increase, are the small and middle-sized
capitalists and even the larger capitalists other than landlords and monopolists. The great
mass of income taxpayers, business men, farmers, and the professional classes with incomes
from about £200 to £3000 ($1000 to $15,000) are given every encouragement, while those with
somewhat larger incomes are only slightly discriminated against on the surface, in the incidence
of the taxes, and not at all when we inquire into the ways in which the taxes are being expended.
Certainly nothing is being done that will "appreciably affect the status or style of living
of any class in the United Kingdom," or that will check materially the enormous rise of this
"upper middle" class both in wealth and numbers--for the income tax payers have doubled their
income in a little more than a decade, until it has reached the total of more than a billion
pounds a year. And surely no tendency could be more diametrically opposed to a Socialism whose
purpose it is to improve the relative position of the "lower middle" and working classes.

While the new reform programs of the various parties are in general agreement in all countries,
in that they are all collectivist, and favor as a rule the same social classes, there is much
controversy as to names, whether they shall be called Socialistic or merely radical or progressive.
The question is really immaterial.

"Capital, divested of its perversions, would be natural Socialism," says one of Henry George's
most prominent disciples.[26] Whether the proposed reforming is done with a purified and strengthened
capitalism in view, or in the name of "natural Socialism" or "State Socialism," the program
itself is in every practical aspect the same.

