VOL. I.--NO. 16. PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK. PRICE FOUR CENTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

GENERAL PRESCOTT AND THE YANKEE BOY.

BY BENSON J. LOSSING.

General Prescott, commanding the British forces on Rhode Island in 1777, was a petty tyrant,
imperious, irascible, and cruel. He would command citizens of Newport who met him on the streets
to take off their hats in deference to him, and if not obeyed, he would knock them off with
his cane. If he saw a group of citizens talking together, he would shake his cane at them,
and shout, "Disperse, you rebels!" For slight offenses citizens were imprisoned and otherwise
ill-treated. This unworthy conduct made the people despise and hate him. His tyranny became
unbearable.

Prescott's summer quarters were at Mr. Overing's house, on the borders of Narragansett Bay,
a few miles from Newport. On a warm but showery night in July, 1777, Lieutenant-Colonel Barton,
with a few resolute men, went down the bay from Providence, in a whale-boat, landed near Prescott's
quarters at about midnight, secured the sentinels, entered the house, and ascended to the door
of his bedroom in the second story. It was locked. A stout colored man who accompanied Barton,
making a battering-ram of his head, burst open the door. The General, in affright, sprang from
his bed, but was instantly seized, and without being allowed to dress himself, was conveyed
to the boat, and taken quickly across the bay to Warwick. Thence he was sent, under guard,
to Washington's head-quarters in New Jersey.

In the spring of 1778 Prescott was exchanged for General Charles Lee, and returned to Rhode
Island. Soon afterward the British Admiral invited the General to dine with him and his officers
on board his ship, then lying in front of Newport. Martial law yet prevailed on the Island,
and men and boys were frequently sent by the authorities on shore to be confined in the ship
as a punishment for slight offenses. There were several on board at that time.

After dinner the free use of wine made the company hilarious, and toasts and songs were frequently
called for. A lieutenant remarked to the Admiral, "There is a Yankee lad confined below who
can shame any of us in singing."

"Bring him up," said the Admiral.

"Yes, bring him up," said Prescott.

The boy was brought into the cabin. He was pale and slender, and about thirteen years of age.
Abashed by the presence of great officers, with their glittering uniforms, he timidly approached,
when the Admiral, seeing his embarrassment, spoke kindly to him, and asked him to sing a song.

"I can't sing any but Yankee songs," said the trembling boy.

"Come, my little fellow, don't be afraid," said the Admiral. "Sing one of your Yankee songs--any
one you can recollect."

The boy still hesitated, when the brutal Prescott, who was a stranger to the lad, roared out,

"Give us a song, you little rebel, or I'll give you a dozen lashes."

This cruel salutation was innocently met most severely by the child, when, encouraged by kind
words from the Admiral, he sang, with a sweet voice and modest manner, the following ballad,
composed by a sailor of Newport:

  "Twas on a dark and stormy night--
    The wind and waves did roar--
  Bold Barton then, with twenty men,
    Went down upon the shore.

  "And in a whale-boat they set off
    To Rhode Island fair,
  To catch a redcoat General
    Who then resided there.

  "Through British fleets and guard-boats strong
    They held their dangerous way,
  Till they arrived unto their port,
    And then did not delay.

  "A tawny son of Afric's race
    Them through the ravine led,
  And entering then the Overing house,
    They found him in his bed.

  "But to get in they had no means
    Except poor Cuffee's head,
  Who beat the door down, then rushed in,
    And seized him in his bed.

  "Stop! let me put my clothing on!"
    The General then did pray;
  'Your clothing, massa, I will take;
    For dress we can not stay.'

  "Then through rye stubble him they led,
    With shoes and clothing none,
  And placed him in their boat quite snug,
    And from the shore were gone.

  "Soon the alarm was sounded loud:
    'The Yankees they have come,
  And stolen Prescott from his bed,
    And him have carried hum.'

  "The drums were beat, sky-rockets flew,
    The soldiers shouldered arms,
  And marched around the grounds they knew,
    Filled with most dire alarms.

  "But through the fleet with muffled oars
    They held their devious way,
  And landed him on 'Gansett shores,
    Where Britons held no sway.

  "When unto land the captors came,
    Where rescue there was none,
  'A bold push this,' the General cried;
    'Of prisoners I am one.'"

The boy was frequently interrupted by roars of laughter at Prescott's expense, which strengthened
the child's nerves and voice; and when he had concluded his song, "I thought," wrote a gentleman
who was present, "the deck would go through with the stamping." General Prescott joined heartily
in the merriment produced by the song, and thrusting his hand into his pocket, he pulled out
a coin, and handed it to the boy, saying,

"Here, you young dog, is a guinea for you."

The boy was set at liberty the next morning, and sent ashore.

CLIMBING A MOUNTAIN THREE MILES HIGH.

The ice-bound peak of the Alps known as the Matterhorn, situated between Switzerland and Italy,
forty miles northeast of Mont Blanc, and twelve miles west of Monte Rosa, towers skyward nearly
15,000 feet, presenting an appearance imposing beyond description. The peak rises abruptly,
by a series of cliffs which may properly be termed precipices, a clear 5000 feet above the
glaciers which surround its base. There seemed to the superstitious natives in the surrounding
valleys to be a line drawn around it, up to which one might go, but no farther. Within that
invisible line good and evil spirits were supposed to exist. They spoke of a ruined city on
its summit wherein the spirits dwelt; and if you laughed, they gravely shook their heads, told
you to look yourself to see the castles and the walls, and warned you against a rash approach,
lest the infuriate demons from their impregnable heights should hurl down vengeance for your
audacity.

Previous to 1865 several attempts had been made by daring tourists to reach its summit, but
no one got beyond 13,000 feet, the remaining 2000 feet being generally regarded as inaccessible.
But in the year just mentioned a little party of hardy English climbers accomplished the ascent.
The achievement was made, however, at the cost of four human lives.

The story, as told by one of the leaders of the party, Mr. Edward Whymper, who had already
made seven unsuccessful attempts, is an exciting one.

The ascent was made in July, in company with Lord Francis Douglas, Mr. Hudson, Mr. Hadow, and
three guides. On the first day they did not ascend to a great height, and on the second day
they resumed their journey with daylight, as they were anxious to outstrip a party of Italians
who had set out before them by a different route. Difficulty after difficulty was surmounted.
The higher they rose, the more intense became the excitement. What if they should be beaten
at the last moment? The slope eased off; at length they could be detached from the rope which
bound the party together; and Croz and Mr. Whymper, dashing away, ran a neck-and-neck race,
which ended in a dead-heat. At 1.40 P.M. the world was at their feet, and the Matterhorn was
conquered. Hurrah! They had beaten the party of Italians, whom they saw on the southwest ridge,
1250 feet below, and who did not prosecute the ascent farther. For an hour the successful climbers
revelled in the scene which lay at their feet.

Alas! their naturally triumphant feeling of pleasure was but short-lived. They had commenced
their descent, again tied together with ropes. Croz, a most accomplished guide and a brave
fellow, went first; Hadow, second; Hudson, as an experienced mountaineer, and reckoned as good
as a guide, third; Lord F. Douglas, fourth; followed by Mr. Whymper between the two remaining
guides, named Jaugwalder, father and son. They were commencing the difficult part of the descent,
and Croz was cutting steps in the ice for the feet of Mr. Hadow, who was immediately behind him.

The bodies of three of the men who thus miserably perished were afterward recovered; but that
of Lord Francis Douglas was never again seen. It was a melancholy ending, and may well excite
a feeling of surprise that so many brave and useful men can thus be found year by year hazarding
their lives for what is in many cases no higher purpose than that of pleasure or sport.

THE GOLD DIGGINGS OF IRELAND.

Although Ireland is not generally regarded as one of the gold-producing countries of the world,
gold has been found there in paying quantities, especially in the county of Wicklow.

Tradition commonly attributes the original discovery of the Wicklow gold mines to a poor school-master,
who, while fishing in one of the small streams which descend from the Croghan mountains, picked
up a piece of shining metal, and having ascertained that it was gold, gradually enriched himself
by the success of his researches in that and the neighboring streams, cautiously disposing
of the produce of his labor to a goldsmith in Dublin. He is said to have preserved the secret
for upward of twenty years, but marrying a young wife, he imprudently confided his discovery
to her, and she, believing her husband to be mad, immediately revealed the circumstance to
her relations, through whose means it was made public. This was toward the close of the year
1795, and the effect it produced was remarkable. Thousands of people of every age and sex hurried
to the spot, and from the laborer who could wield a spade or pickaxe to the child who scraped
the rock with a rusty nail, all eagerly engaged in the search after gold. The Irish are a people
possessed of a rich and quick fancy, and the very name of a gold mine carried with it ideas
of inexhaustible wealth.

During the interval which elapsed between the public announcement of the gold discovery and
the taking possession of the mine by the government--a period of about two months--it is supposed
that upward of two thousand five hundred ounces of gold were collected by the peasants, principally
from the mud and sand of Ballinvally stream, and disposed of for about ten thousand pounds,
a sum far exceeding the produce of the mine during the government operations, which amounted
to little more than three thousand five hundred pounds.

The gold was found in pieces of all forms and sizes, from the smallest perceptible particle
to the extraordinary mass of twenty-two ounces, which sold for eighty guineas. This large piece
was of an irregular form; it measured four inches in its greatest length, and three in breadth,
and in thickness it varied from half an inch to an inch; a gilt cast of it may be seen in the
museum of Trinity College, Dublin. So pure was the gold generally found, that it was the custom
of the Dublin goldsmiths to put gold coin in the opposite scale to it, and give weight for weight.

The government works were carried on until 1798, when all the machinery was destroyed in the
insurrection. The mining was renewed in 1801, but not being found sufficiently productive to
pay the expenses, the search was abandoned. There prevails yet, however, a lingering belief
among the peasants that there is still gold in Kinsella, and only the "lucky man" is wanting.

THE STORY OF THE SUMMER BOARDER, MOSES, AND THE TWO VISITORS.

BY THE FAMILY STORY-TELLER.

I warn you, said Family Story-Teller, looking round upon the family circle the next evening,
that this is a story of mistakes. It will be a hard story to follow, and unless you pay close
attention, you will forget which is Evelyn and which is the other girl, and why it was that
Mrs. Stimpcett thought her boy Moses had broken his leg. I mean, of course, Mrs. Stimpcett
of the village of Gilead.

Mrs. Stimpcett's summer boarder, Mr. St. Clair, was forgetful. He liked well to gaze at a brook,
a pond, the clouds, the blue sky, the flowery fields, and often he forgot to stop doing so,
and kept on gazing when it was meal time, or bed-time, or some other time.

Mrs. Stimpcett took also another summer boarder, a rich lady of the name of Odell. Mrs. Odell
was tall, and slim, and pale, and in her cap, just above her forehead, was set in a row three
pink muslin roses. Mrs. Odell was silly enough to be proud of being rich, and stingy enough
to like to save her own money at other people's expense.

Mrs. Odell had a six-year-old niece named Evelyn, a pale, delicate little girl, who lived in
the city, and this Evelyn was coming to Gilead to visit her aunt Odell. She was coming in the
cars to Mill Village in care of the conductor, and her aunt Odell was to send a carriage to
the station to fetch her to Gilead. If the carriage was not there when the cars arrived, she
was to stay with the station-man till it should arrive. I trust my story is plain thus far.

It happened that Mr. Stimpcett was going to Mill Village that same day, to get some corn ground,
and Mrs. Odell, though it would take him very far out of his way, asked him to go round by
the station and get Evelyn. This would save hiring a carriage.

Now Mr. St. Clair thought it would be a pleasant thing to go to mill, and asked if he might
go in the place of Mr. Stimpcett. Mr. Stimpcett said, "Oh yes, if you will be sure to bring
back the meal." So Mr. St. Clair went to mill; and Moses Stimpcett, a boy about nine years
old, went with him, for the sake of the ride, and to see his aunt Debby, who lived not far
from the mill.

They set off soon after the hour of noon. Moses wore his Zouave cap, and his second-best summer
clothes, and Mr. St. Clair wore a black alpaca coat, a blue neck-tie tied in a bow, a broad-brimmed
straw hat, a white vest, and white trousers. Moses drove the horse, and they reached the mill
without accident. While the miller was taking in the corn, Moses bought a roll of lozenges
at a store near by, and as he came out with them a man passed that way, leading a small but
valuable dog. Said this man to Moses, "I wish you would hold my dog while I step into the mill;"
and Moses took the string.

Mr. St. Clair hitched his horse a little way from the mill, and then said to Moses, "When the
man takes his dog, you can go to your aunt Debby's. I will call for you there, after I have
been to the station and got the little girl." Mr. St. Clair then walked up the bank of the
stream to see the waters flow.

Moses led the dog along to the mill, and leaned against the building awhile; then sat down
on a barrel. Soon the barrel began to move. The reason of this was that it stood on an elevator.
Moses had not noticed that the barrel stood on an elevator. First he wondered what the matter
was, and second, he thought he would jump; but by that time the barrel was quite a way off
the ground, and, besides, he was troubled by holding the string of the dog, and the lozenges.
The barrel rose higher and higher, and when the little dog found himself swinging in the air,
he kicked and yelped, and jerked the string so that Moses was obliged to let it go, and also
to drop the lozenges, for he had to grasp the barrel with both hands. The dog fell, and broke
one of his legs. [Please remember that it was the dog, and not Moses.] Moses and the barrel
were taken in at the third story. A traveller passing through the place heard of this elevator
accident, and told of it that afternoon at a house in Gilead. But this person understood that
it was the boy who broke his leg--"a Stimpcett boy," he said, in telling the news. Mrs. Stimpcett
heard of it soon after milking-time; but this will be spoken of farther on in the story.

Mr. St. Clair walked far up the bank of the stream, and when he came back, the miller told
him that his bag of meal had been put into his cart. He went out, and seeing a cart with a
bag of meal lying at the bottom, he stepped in, and drove around to the station.

Now this cart which Mr. St. Clair took belonged to a man who came from Cherry Valley. Here,
you see, was a mistake. But Mr. St. Clair not only took the wrong cart, he took the wrong little
girl, as will now be told. He drove in haste to the station, knowing he had staid too long
walking up the bank of the stream. On the platform of the station sat a roly-poly, chubby-cheeked
little girl, with a carpet-bag and a heavy bundle. He asked her, "Are you waiting for some
one to come for you?" "Yes, sir," she answered. "All right," said Mr. St. Clair; and he helped
her into the cart. I hope you understand that this very fleshy child was not Evelyn Odell.
She was Maggie Brien. Maggie Brien lived with her grandmother, not far from the station. Her
mother did the cooking in a family two miles away, and she had promised to send that day for
Maggie to come and make her a visit, and Maggie was sitting on the platform waiting for the
man to take her.

Mr. St. Clair took her, and drove from the station, thinking to go to Aunt Debby's and get
Moses, and set off for Gilead; but while he was gazing up at the sky, the horse--which you
will remember was not Mr. Stimpcett's horse--turned into a road which led to his own master's
house at Cherry Valley. Mr. St. Clair had now the wrong horse and cart, the wrong meal, the
wrong girl, and the wrong road. Presently the horse trotted up to the door of a farm-house,
and stopped. Three heads of three young maidens popped out of three chamber windows, and a
bare-armed woman, wiping her hands on her apron, rushed to the door. "Where is my husband?"
she cried. "Is he hurt? Is he killed? Tell me the truth at once!"

"I assure you, madam," answered Mr. St. Clair, mildly, "that I have not seen your husband."

"Why, then, have you come with his horse and cart?" she asked.

"This horse and cart, madam," said Mr. St. Clair, still mildly, "belongs to Mr. Stimpcett,
of Gilead."

"Do you think I don't know our horse and cart?" cried the woman, in an angry tone. "Besides,
here's my husband's name on the bag--I. Ellison."

"I must have taken the wrong horse and cart," said Mr. St. Clair. "I will go back at once and
find Mr. Ellison."

"The quicker the better," said the woman, as he turned the horse.

Just after Mr. St. Clair had passed from the Cherry Valley road into the mill road, a man came
out of a wood path and sprang at the horse, crying, "Stop thief!"

"Where is the thief?" asked Mr. St. Clair, looking all around.

"You are the thief!" cried the man. "You have stolen my horse and cart."

Maggie Brien began to cry.

"Are you Mr. I. Ellison?" asked Mr. St. Clair.

"Yes, I am," said the man, angrily.

Mr. St. Clair explained his mistake, and gave up the horse and cart to Mr. I. Ellison. He then
took Maggie's carpet-bag and heavy bundle, and walked all the way to Aunt Debby's.

By the time they reached Aunt Debby's it was nearly dark, and as for Moses, he was already
travelling home in his father's cart. It happened in this way. Aunt Debby heard that Mr. St.
Clair had been seen driving off, and knew he must have taken the wrong horse and cart, for
Mr. Stimpcett's was still standing near the mill. Therefore, as Moses had already waited until
after supper, she let him take his father's horse and cart and drive home behind a man with
an ox team who was going by a roundabout way to Gilead.

Now as soon as Moses had driven off, Aunt Debby locked her doors and went to an evening meeting,
so that when Mr. St. Clair came there on foot, with Maggy Brien and her bag and bundle, to
find Moses, he found no one. He questioned some boys standing by a fence, and they told him
that Moses had gone home in his father's cart, behind an ox team. Maggy Brien began to cry
again. "Don't cry, dear," said Mr. St. Clair. "I'll hire a buggy."

He hired from the stable a buggy, a fast horse, and a driver, and away they started for Gilead,
and reached Mr. Stimpcett's house at about half past eight o'clock in the evening. Moses had
not arrived.

Mr. St. Clair found Mrs. Stimpcett, with her bonnet and shawl on, walking the floor, sobbing
and sighing and wringing her hands. Grandma, also crying, was wrapping a bottle of the Sudden
Remedy in a piece of newspaper.

"Oh, how is Moses?" cried Mrs. Stimpcett. "Will it have to be taken off?"

"Is not Moses here?" asked Mr. St. Clair, in a mild voice.

"Here!" cried Mrs. Stimpcett. "How can he be here, when he has broken his leg? I am going to
him as soon as Mr. Stimpcett can borrow a horse."

Mr. St. Clair thought that Moses must have fallen from the cart on his way home; but before
he had time to speak, Mrs. Odell came in.

"Where is my niece?" she cried. "Where is Evelyn?"

"Here she is," said Mr. St. Clair, presenting Maggie Brien.

"What do you mean?" shrieked Mrs. Odell. "That my niece? No! no! no! Oh, Evelyn! Evelyn! Evelyn!
Dear child, where are you?"

Maggie Brien began to cry bitterly.

"Alas! what a wretch I am, to have made this mistake!" cried Mr. St. Clair. "But I'll find
your Evelyn. I'll go for a horse. I'll take this child back. Don't cry, little girl. I won't
rest till I find your Evelyn;" and he rushed from the house, almost knocking down several children
in the passageway--the Stimpcett children; for Obadiah, Debby, and little Cordelia had been
awakened by the noise, and had come down in their night-gowns.

But the lost Evelyn was near, and coming nearer every moment. You will remember that Maggie's
mother, Mrs. Brien, was to send for Maggie to come and visit her. The man whom she sent went
back and told her that he could not find Maggie, and that her grandmother was afraid she had
been stolen from the station. Mrs. Brien hired a horse and wagon, and drove to the station,
and inquired of the station-master. A stable-boy who stood near told her he saw a little girl
who looked like Maggie riding off in a buggy with a man, and that the man hired the buggy to
go to Gilead.

"The wretch!" cried Mrs. Brien; "to be stealing away my child! I will keep on to Gilead. I
will follow him up."

"I wish you would let this little girl ride with you to Gilead," said the station-master. "She
has been waiting a long time for some one to call and take her to Mr. Stimpcett's, and Mr.
Stimpcett will help you find your Maggie." He then brought out a slender, flaxen-haired little
girl, and placed her in Mrs. Brien's wagon. This child was Evelyn Odell, and Mrs. Brien took
her to Gilead.

It happened that they reached Mr. Stimpcett's just as Moses was driving into the yard with
his father's horse and cart, and they three, Mrs. Brien, Moses, and Evelyn, went into the house
together.

Scarcely had they entered before Mr. Stimpcett, and then Mr. St. Clair, arrived in haste, each
with a horse and wagon. Mr. Stimpcett rushed in to get his wife, and Mr. St. Clair to get Maggie.
There they found Mrs. Stimpcett with her arms around Moses, Mrs. Odell with hers around Evelyn,
and Mrs. Brien with hers around Maggie; and there were huggings and kissings and laughings
and cryings, and it was, "Oh, you dear!" and, "Oh, you darling!" and "Oh, my child!" and, oh
other things! Grandma held the Sudden Remedy bottle, looking at Moses's legs as if not quite
sure yet that they did not need some of it rubbed on, while Obadiah, and Deborah, and little
Cordelia stood staring and sniffling and smiling, now and then wiping their eyes with their
night-gown sleeves.

"Will nobody hug me?" cried Mr. Stimpcett. Upon this little Cordelia climbed into his arms,
and they two hugged each other.

Mr. St. Clair told his part of the story, Moses his part, and Mrs. Brien her part.

"After all," said Mr. Stimpcett, "Mr. St. Clair did not bring back the meal!"

THE FAIRY PAINTERS.

The Fairy Queen had built herself a palace of gold and crystal. The rooms were hung with tapestry
of rose leaves, and the floors were carpeted with moss. The great hall was the grandest part
of all. The ceiling was made of mother-of-pearl, and the walls of ivory, and the lights which
hung from the roof sparkled with diamonds. These ivory walls were to be covered with paintings;
so the Queen called the fairy artists, and bade them all paint a picture for her by a certain
day. "He whose picture is best," she said, "shall paint my hall, to his everlasting renown,
and I will raise him, besides, to the highest fairy honors." The youngest of the fairy painters
was Tintabel. He could draw a face so exquisite, that it was happiness only to gaze at it,
or so sad that no one could see it without tears. No fairy longed as he did for the glory and
renown of painting the Queen's palace.

He wandered out into the wood to dream his idea into loveliness before he wrought it with his
hand. "Never shall be picture like my picture," he said aloud; "I will steal the colors of
heaven, and trace spirit forms." But Orgolino, that wicked fairy, heard him. Now Orgolino painted
very grandly. He could draw wild and strong and terrible beings, which thrilled the gazer with
wonder and awe. Of all his rivals he feared Tintabel only. So, when he saw him alone in the
wood, he rejoiced wickedly, and said, "Now I will rid myself of a foe;" and he flew down upon
the poor Tintabel, and being a more powerful fairy, he caught him, and pinned his wings together
with magic thorns, and fastened him down with them among the fungus and toad-stools of the
damp wood. Then he flew away exulting, and painted day and night. It was a magnificent picture,
with stately figures, powerful and triumphant, and Orgolino's heart swelled with pride at his
work, and he said to himself, "I might have left that poor wretch alone. The weakling could
do nothing like this."

Meanwhile Tintabel cried bitterly, because his hope was lost, his praise would never be heard
among the fairies, and the beauty he had hoped to create he should never see. The elf that
lived in the toad-stool looked up as the tears fell upon him, and gathered them up from his
fungous coat, where they sparkled like dew.

"What sweet water!" he said.

"Alas!" sighed Tintabel--"alas for my vanished hopes! Oh! how lovely should my picture have
been, and now I am bound down here to uselessness;" and he could not feel the pain of his bruised
and bound wings because of the pain at his heart. The elf in the toad-stool looked up and said,

"Fairy, paint me a picture, here on the smooth surface of the toad-stool, for I have never
seen one."

Tintabel stopped his wailing to think how wretched was the elf who had never seen a picture.

"Ah! elf," he said, "I have neither pencil nor colors. How can I paint?"

But the elf pointed to one of the thorns which fastened Tintabel's wings. The end was long,
so that the fairy could reach it.

