The horses leaped out of the hole, chariot and all, and came close to the spot where Proserpina
stood.

Then she saw there was a man in the chariot. He was very richly dressed, with a crown on his
head all made of diamonds which sparkled like fire. He was a very handsome man, but looked
rather cross and discontented, and he kept rubbing his eyes and covering them with his hand,
as if he did not care much for the bright sunshine.

As soon as he saw Proserpina, the man waved to her to come a little nearer. "Do not be afraid,"
he said. "Come! would you not like to ride a little way with me in my beautiful chariot?"

But Proserpina was very frightened, and no wonder. The stranger did not look a very kind or
pleasant man. His voice was so gruff and deep, and sounded just like the rumbling Proserpina
had heard underneath the earth.

She at once began to cry out, "Mother, mother! O Mother Ceres, come quickly and save me!"

But her voice was very shaky and too faint for Mother Ceres to hear, for by this time she was
many thousands of miles away making the corn grow in another country.

No sooner did Proserpina begin to cry out than the strange man leaped to the ground; he caught
her in his arms and sprang into the chariot, then he shook the reins and shouted to the two
black horses to set off. They began to gallop so fast that it was just like flying, and in
less than a minute Proserpina had lost sight of the sunny fields where she and her mother had
always lived.

She screamed and screamed and all the beautiful flowers fell out of her apron to the ground.

But Mother Ceres was too far away to know what was happening to her little daughter. Can you
guess who I am? They call me Pluto, and I am the King of the mines where all the diamonds and
rubies and all the gold and silver are found: they all belong to me. Do you see this lovely
crown on my head? I will let you have it to play with. Oh, I think we are going to be very
good friends when we get out of this troublesome sunshine."

"Let me go home," sobbed Proserpina, "let me go home."

"My home is better than your mother's," said King Pluto. "It is a palace made of gold, with
crystal windows and with diamond lamps instead of sunshine; and there is a splendid throne;
if you like you may sit on it and be my little Queen, and I will sit on the footstool." Take
me back to my mother."

But King Pluto only shouted to his horses to go faster.

"You are very foolish, Proserpina," he said, rather crossly. "I am doing all I can to make
you happy, and I want very much to have a merry little girl to run upstairs and downstairs
in my palace and make it brighter with her laughter. This is all I ask you to do for King Pluto."

"Never" answered Proserpina, looking very miserable. "I shall never laugh again, till you take
me back to my mother's cottage."

And the horses galloped on, and the wind whistled past the chariot, and Proserpina cried and
cried till her poor little voice was almost cried away, and nothing was left but a whisper.

The road now began to get very dull and gloomy. On each side were black rocks and very thick
trees and bushes that looked as if they never got any sunshine. It got darker and darker, as
if night was coming, and still the black horses rushed on leaving the sunny home of Mother
Ceres far behind.

But the darker it grew, the happier King Pluto seemed to be. Proserpina began to peep at him,
she thought he might not be such a wicked man after all.

"Is it much further," she asked, "and will you carry me back when I have seen your palace?"

"We will talk of that by and by," answered Pluto. "Do you see these big gates? When we pass
these we are at home; and look! there is my faithful dog at the door! Cerberus; Cerberus, come
here, good dog."

Pluto pulled the horses' reins, and the chariot stopped between two big tall pillars. The dog
got up and stood on his hind legs, so that he could put his paws on the chariot wheel. What
a strange dog he was! A big, rough, ugly-looking monster, with three heads each fiercer than
the other.

King Pluto patted his heads and the dog wagged his tail with delight. Proserpina was much afraid
when she saw that his tail was a live dragon, with fiery eyes and big poisonous teeth.

"Will the dog bite me?" she asked, creeping closer to King Pluto. "How very ugly he is."

"Oh, never fear," Pluto answered; "he never bites people unless they try to come in here when
I do not want them. Down, Cerberus. Now, Proserpina, we will drive on."

The black horses started again and King Pluto seemed very happy to find himself once more at home.

All along the road Proserpina could see diamonds, and rubies and precious stones sparkling,
and there were bits of real gold among the rocks. It was a very rich place.

Not far from the gateway they came to an iron bridge. Pluto stopped the chariot and told Proserpina
to look at the river which ran underneath. It was very black and muddy, and flowed slowly,
very slowly, as if it had quite forgotten which way it wanted to go, and was in no hurry to
flow anywhere.

"This is the river Lethe," said King Pluto; "do you not think it a very pleasant stream?"

"I think it is very dismal," said Proserpina.

"Well, I like it," answered Pluto, who got rather cross when any one did not agree with him.
"It is a strange kind of river. If you drink only a little sip of the water, you will at once
forget all your care and sorrow. When we reach the palace, you shall have some in a golden
cup, and then you will not cry any more for your mother, and will be perfectly happy with me."

"Oh no, oh no!" said Proserpina, sobbing again. "O mother, mother, I will never forget you;
I do not want to be happy by forgetting all about you."

"We shall see," said King Pluto; "you do not know what good times we will have in my palace.
Here we are, just at the gate. Look at the big pillars; they are all made of solid gold."

He got out of the chariot and carried Proserpina in his arms up a long stair into the great
hall of the palace. It was beautifully lit by hundreds of diamonds and rubies which shone like
lamps. It was very rich and splendid to look at, but it was cold and lonely and Pluto must
have longed for some one to keep him company; perhaps that was why he had stolen Proserpina
from her sunny home.

King Pluto sent for his servants and told them to get ready a grand supper with all kinds of
dainty food and sweet things such as children like. "And be sure not to forget a golden cup
filled with the water of Lethe," he said to the servant.

"I will not eat anything," said Proserpina, "nor drink a single drop, even if you keep me for
ever in your palace."

"I should be sorry for that," replied King Pluto. He really wished to be kind if he had only
known how. "Wait till you see the nice things my cook will make for you, and then you will
be hungry."

Now King Pluto had a secret reason why he wanted Proserpina to eat some food.

But now my story must leave King Pluto's palace, and we must see what Mother Ceres has been about.

You remember she had gone off in her chariot with the winged dragons to the other side of the
world to see how the corn and fruit were growing. And while she was busy in a field she thought
she heard Proserpina's voice calling her. She was sure her little daughter could not possibly
be anywhere near, but the idea troubled her: and presently she left the fields before her work
was half done and, ordering her dragons with the chariot, she drove off.

In less than an hour Mother Ceres got down at the door of her cottage. It was empty! At first
she thought "Oh, Proserpina will still be playing on the shore with the sea-children." So she
went to find her.

"Where is Proserpina, you naughty sea-children?" she asked; "tell me, have you taken her to
your home under the sea?"

"Oh no, Mother Ceres," they said, "she left us early in the day to gather flowers for a wreath,
and we have seen nothing of her since."

Ceres hurried off to ask all the neighbors. A poor fisherman had seen her little footprints
in the sand as he went home with his basket of fish.

None of the neighbors knew where Proserpina was, and Mother Ceres decided she must seek her
daughter further from home.

By this time it was night, so she lit a torch and set off, telling the neighbors she would
never come back till Proserpina was found. In her hurry she quite forgot her chariot with the
dragons; may be she thought she could search better on foot.

So she started on her sad journey, holding her torch in front of her, and looking carefully
along every road and round every corner.

She had not gone very far before she found one of the wonderful flowers which Proserpina had
pulled from the poison bush.

"Ha!" said Mother Ceres, examining it carefully, "there is mischief in this flower: it did
not grow in the earth by any help of mine; it is the work of magic, and perhaps it has poisoned
my poor child." And she hid it in her bosom.

All night long Ceres sought for her daughter. She knocked at the doors of farm-houses where
the people were all asleep, and they came to see who was there, rubbing their eyes and yawning.
They were very sorry for the poor mother when they heard her tale--but they knew nothing about
Proserpina.

At every palace door, too, she knocked, so loudly that the servants ran quickly, expecting
to find a great queen, and when they saw only a sad lonely woman with a burning torch in her
hand, and a wreath of withered poppies on her head, they were angry and drove her rudely away.

But nobody had seen Proserpina, and Mother Ceres wandered about till the night was passed,
without sitting down to rest, and without taking any food. She did not even remember to put
out her torch, and it looked very pale and small in the bright morning sunshine.

It must have been a magic torch, for it burned dimly all day, and then when night came it shone
with a beautiful red light, and neither the wind nor the rain put it out through all these
weary days while Ceres sought for Proserpina.

It was not only men and women that Mother Ceres questioned about her daughter. In the woods
and by the streams she met other creatures whose way of talking she could understand, and who
knew many things that we have never learned.

Sometimes she tapped with her finger against an oak tree, and at once its rough bark would
open and a beautiful maiden would appear: she was the spirit of the oak, living inside it,
and as happy as could be when its green leaves danced in the breeze.

Then another time Ceres would find a spring bubbling out of a little hole in the earth, and
she would play with her fingers in the water. Immediately up through the sandy bed a nymph
with dripping hair would rise and float half out of the water, looking at Mother Ceres, and
swaying up and down with the water bubbles.

Often, too, she met fauns. These were little people with brown faces who looked as if they
had played a great deal in the sun. They had hairy ears and little horns on their brows, and
their legs were like goats' legs on which they danced merrily about the woods and fields. They
were very kind creatures, and were very sorry for Mother Ceres when they heard that her daughter
was lost.

And once she met a rude band of satyrs who had faces like monkeys and who had horses' tails
behind; they were dancing and shouting in a rough, noisy manner, and they only laughed when
Ceres told them how unhappy she was. He knew Mother Ceres and answered her questions kindly,
and he gave her some milk and honey to drink out of a wooden bowl. But he knew nothing of Proserpina.

And so Mother Ceres went wandering about for nine long days and nights. Now and then she found
a withered flower, and these she picked up and put in her bosom, because she fancied they might
have fallen from her daughter's hand. All day she went on through the hot sunshine, and at
night the flame of her torch would gleam on the pathway, and she would continue her weary search
without ever sitting down to rest.

On the tenth day she came to the mouth of a cave. It was dark inside, but a torch was burning
dimly and lit up half of the gloomy place. Ceres peeped in and held up her own torch before
her, and then she saw what looked like a woman, sitting on a heap of withered leaves, which
the wind had blown into the cave. She was a very strange-looking woman: her head was shaped
like a dog's, and round it she had a wreath of snakes.

As soon as she saw her, Mother Ceres knew that this was a queer kind of person who was always
grumbling and unhappy. Her name was Hecate, and she would never say a word to other people
unless they were unhappy too.

"No, Mother Ceres," answered Hecate. "I have seen nothing of your daughter. But my ears, you
know, are made so that all cries of distress or fright all over the world are heard by them.
And nine days ago, as I sat in my cave, I heard the voice of a young girl sobbing as if in
great distress. As well as I could judge, some dragon was carrying her away."

"You kill me by saying so," cried Mother Ceres, almost ready to faint; "where was the sound,
and which way did it seem to go?"

"It passed along very quickly," said Hecate, "and there was a rumbling of wheels to the eastward.
I cannot tell you any more. When there is no more hope of finding her, then I will come back
with you to your dark cave. But till I know that Proserpina is dead, I will not allow myself
time to sorrow."

Hecate did not much like the idea of going abroad into the sunshine, but at last she agreed
to go, and they set out together, each carrying a torch, although it was broad daylight and
the sun was shining. Any people they met ran away without waiting to be spoken to, as soon
as they caught sight of Hecate's wreath of snakes.

As the sad pair wandered on, a thought struck Ceres. "There is one person," she exclaimed,
"who must have seen my child and can tell me what has become of her. Why did I not think of
him sooner? It is Phoebus."

"What!" said Hecate, "the youth that always sits in the sunshine! Oh! pray do not think of
going near him: he is a gay young fellow that will only smile in your face. And, besides, there
is such a glare of sunshine about him that he will quite blind my poor eyes, which are weak
with so much weeping."

So they set off in search of Phoebus, both sighing a great deal, and after a long journey they
came to the sunniest spot in the whole world. There they saw a young man with curly golden
hair which seemed to be made of sunbeams.

His clothes were like light summer clouds, and the smile on his face was so bright that Hecate
held her hands before her eyes and muttered that she wished he would wear a veil! Phoebus had
a lyre in his hands and was playing very sweet music, at the same time singing a merry song.

But Ceres was too unhappy to know whether Phoebus smiled or looked angry.

"Phoebus" she said, "I am in great trouble and have come to you for help. Can you tell me what
has become of my little daughter Proserpina?"

"Proserpina, Proserpina did you call her?" answered Phoebus, trying to remember. He had so
many pleasant ideas in his head that he sometimes forgot what had happened no longer ago than
yesterday.

"Ah yes! I remember now--a very lovely little girl. I am happy to tell you that I did see Proserpina
not many days ago. You may be quite easy about her.

"Why," replied Phoebus, "as the little girl was gathering flowers she was snatched up by King
Pluto and carried off to his kingdom. I have never been there myself, but I am told the royal
palace is splendidly built. Proserpina will have gold and silver and diamonds to play with,
and I am sure even although there is no sunshine, she will have a very happy life."

"Hush! do not say such a thing," said Ceres. "What has she got to love? What are all these
splendors if she has no one to care for? I must have her back. Good Phoebus, will you come
with me to demand my daughter from this wicked Pluto?"

"Pray excuse me," answered Phoebus, with a bow. "I certainly wish you success, and I am sorry
I am too busy to go with you. Besides, King Pluto does not care much for me. To tell you the
truth, his dog with the three heads would never let me pass the gateway. I always carry a handful
of sunbeams with me, and those, you know, are not allowed within King Pluto's kingdom."

So the poor mother said good-by and hastened away along with Hecate.

Ceres had now found out what had become of her daughter, but she was not any happier than before.
Indeed, her trouble seemed worse than ever. So long as Proserpina was above-ground there was
some hope of getting her home again. But now that the poor child was shut up behind King Pluto's
iron gates, with the three-headed Cerberus on guard beside them, there seemed no hope of her
escape. So Hecate hurried off alone to her beloved cave, frightening a great many little children
with her dog's face as she went.

Poor Mother Ceres! It is sad to think of her all alone, holding up her never-dying torch and
wandering up and down the wide, wide world. So much did she suffer that in a very short time
she began to look quite old. She wandered about with her hair hanging down her back, and she
looked so wild that people took her for some poor mad woman, and never thought that this was
Mother Ceres who took care of every seed which was sown in the ground and of all the fruit
and flowers.

And the children seemed to understand her sorrow and would gather in a little group about her
knees and look up lovingly into her face, and Ceres, after giving them a kiss all round, would
lead them home and advise their mothers never to let them stray out of sight. "For if they
do," said she, "it may happen to you as it has happened to me: the iron-hearted King Pluto
may take a liking to your darlings and carry them away in his golden chariot." She was so unhappy
that she even forbade the flowers to bloom.

Now you can see what a terrible misfortune had fallen on the earth. The farmer plowed the ground
and planted his seed, as usual, and there lay the black earth without a single green blade
to be seen. The fields looked as brown in the sunny months of spring as ever they did in winter.
The rich man's garden and the flower-plot in front of the laborer's cottage were both empty;
even the children's gardens showed nothing but withered stalks. It was very sad to see the
poor starving sheep and cattle that followed behind Ceres, bleating and lowing as if they knew
that she could help them.

All the people begged her at least to let the grass grow, but Mother Ceres was too miserable
to care for any one's trouble. "Never," she said. "If the earth is ever to be green again,
it must grow along the path by which my daughter comes back to me."

At last, as there seemed to be no other way out of it, Mercury, the favorite messenger of the
gods, was sent to King Pluto in the hope that he would set everything right again by giving
up Proserpina.

Mercury went as quickly as he could to the great iron gates, and with the help of the wings
on his shoes, he took a flying leap right over Cerberus with his three heads, and very soon
he stood at the door of King Pluto's palace.

The servants all knew him, as he had often been there in his short cloak, and cap, and shoes
with the wings, and with his curious staff which had two snakes twisted round it.

He asked to see the King immediately, and Pluto, who had heard his voice from the top of the
stairs, called out to him to come up at once, for he was always glad to listen to Mercury's
cheery talk.

And while they are laughing together we must find out what Proserpina had been doing since
we last heard about her.

You will remember that Proserpina had said she would not taste food so long as she was kept
a prisoner in King Pluto's palace.

It was now six months since she had been carried off from her home, and not a mouthful had
she eaten, not even when the cook had made all kinds of sweet things and had ordered all the
dainties which children usually like best.

Proserpina was naturally a bright, merry little girl, and all this time she was not so unhappy
as you may have thought.

In the big palace were a thousand rooms, and each was full of wonderful and beautiful things.
It is true there was never any sunshine in these rooms, and Proserpina used to fancy that the
shadowy light which came from the jeweled lamps was alive: it seemed to float before her as
she walked between the golden pillars, and to close softly behind her in the echo of her footsteps.

And Proserpina knew that all the glitter of these precious stones was not worth a single sunbeam,
nor could the rubies and emeralds which she played with ever be as dear to her as the daisies
and buttercups she had gathered among the soft green grass.

King Pluto felt how much happier his palace was since Proserpina came, and so did all his servants.
They loved to hear her childish voice laughing as she ran from room to room, and they felt
less old and tired when they saw again how glad little children can be.

"My own little Proserpina," King Pluto used to say, "I wish you would like me a little better.
Perhaps I might come back to pay you a visit one day."

"No, no," answered Pluto, with his gloomy smile, "I will not trust you for that. You are too
fond of living in the sunshine and gathering flowers. What an idle, childish thing to do! Do
you not think that these diamonds which I have had dug out of the mine for you are far prettier
than violets?"

"No, oh no! not half so pretty," said Proserpina, snatching them from Pluto's hand, and flinging
them to the other end of the room. "O my sweet purple violets, shall I ever see you again?"
and she began to cry bitterly.

But like most children, she soon stopped crying, and in a short time she was running up and
down the rooms as when she had played on the sands with the sea-children. And King Pluto, sad
and lonely, watched her and wished that he too was a child, and when Proserpina turned and
saw the great King standing alone in his splendid hall, so grand and so lonely, with no one
to love him, she felt sorry for him.

"Well," said Pluto, "it is just what I deserve after keeping you a prisoner all these months,
and starving you besides. Are you not dreadfully hungry, is there nothing I can get you to eat?"

In asking this Pluto was very cunning, as you will remember that if Proserpina once tasted
any food in his kingdom, she would never again be able to go home.

"No, indeed," said Proserpina. "Your poor fat little cook is always making me all kinds of
good things which I do not want. The one thing I should like to eat would be a slice of bread
baked by my own mother, and a pear out of her garden."

When Pluto heard this he began to see that he had made a mistake in his way of trying to tempt
Proserpina to eat. He wondered why he had never thought of this before, and he at once sent
a servant with a large basket to get some of the finest and juiciest pears in the whole world.

But this was just at the time when, as we know, Mother Ceres in her despair had forbidden any
flowers or fruit to grow on the earth, and the only thing King Pluto's servant could find,
after seeking all over the world was a single dried-up pomegranate, so dried up as to be hardly
worth eating. Still, since there was no better to be had, he brought it back to the palace,
put it on a magnificent gold plate, and carried it to Proserpina.

Now it just happened that as the servant was bringing the pomegranate in at the back door of
the palace, Mercury had gone up to the front steps with his message to King Pluto about Proserpina.

As soon as Proserpina saw the pomegranate on the golden plate, she told the servant to take
it away again. "I shall not touch it, I can assure you," she said. "If I were ever so hungry,
I should not think of eating such a dried-up miserable pomegranate as that."

"It is the only one in the world," said the servant, and he set down the plate and went away.

When he had gone, Proserpina could not help coming close to the table and looking at the dried-up
pomegranate with eagerness. To tell the truth, when she saw something that really suited her
taste, she felt all her six months' hunger come back at once.

"At least I may smell it," she thought, so she took up the pomegranate and held it to her nose,
and somehow, being quite near to her mouth, the fruit found its way into that little red cave.

At the first noise of their coming, Proserpina took the pomegranate from her mouth.

Mercury, who saw things very quickly, noticed that Proserpina looked a little uncomfortable,
and when he saw the gold plate empty, he was sure she had been eating something.

As for King Pluto, he never guessed the secret.

"My dear little Proserpina," said the King, sitting down and drawing her gently between his
knees, "here is Mercury, who tells me that a great many sad things have happened to innocent
people because I have kept you a prisoner down here. And to confess the truth I have been thinking
myself that I really had no right to take you away from your mother. It was very stupid of
me, but I thought this palace was so dull, and that I should be much happier if I just had
a merry little girl to play in it, and I hoped you would take my crown for a toy and let me
be your playmate. It was very foolish of me, I know."

"No, it was not foolish," said Proserpina, "you have been very kind to me, and I have often
been quite happy here with you."

"Thank you, dear," said King Pluto, "but I cannot help seeing that you think my palace a dark
prison and me the hard-hearted jailor, and I should, indeed, be hard-hearted if I were to keep
you longer than six months. So I give you your liberty. Go back, dear, with Mercury, to your
mother."

Now, although you might not think so, Proserpina found it impossible to say good-by to King
Pluto without being sorry, and she felt she ought to tell him about tasting the pomegranate.
She even cried a little when she thought how lonely and dull the great palace with its jeweled
lamps would be after she had left.

She would like to have thanked him many times, but Mercury hurried her away. "Come along quickly,"
he said, "as King Pluto may change his mind, and take care above all things that you say nothing
about the pomegranate which the servant brought you on the gold plate."

In a short time they had passed the great gateway with the golden pillars, leaving Cerberus
barking and growling with all his three heads at once, and beating his dragon tail on the ground.
Along the dark, rocky road they went very quickly, and soon they reached the upper world again.

You can guess how excited and happy Proserpina was to see the bright sunshine. She noticed
how green the grass grew on the path behind and on each side of her. Wherever she set her foot
at once there rose a flower: violets and roses bloomed along the wayside; the grass and the
corn began to grow with ten times their usual quickness to make up for the dreary months when
Mother Ceres had forbidden them to appear above ground.

The hungry cattle began to eat, and went on eating all day after their long fast. And, I can
assure you, it was a busy time with all the farmers when they found that summer was coming
with a rush.

As to the birds, they hopped about from tree to tree among the fresh, sweet blossoms, and sang
for joy that the dreary days were over and the world was green and young again.

Mother Ceres had gone back to her empty cottage, and was sitting very sadly on the doorstep
with her burning torch in her hand. She had been looking wearily at the flame for some moments,
when all at once it flickered and went out.

"What does this mean?" she thought. "It was a magic torch, and should have gone on burning
till Proserpina was found."

She looked up, and was surprised to see the bare brown fields suddenly turning green, just
as you sometimes see them turn golden when the sun comes from behind a dark cloud.

"Does the Earth dare to disobey me?" exclaimed Mother Ceres angrily. "Did I not forbid it to
be green until my child should be sent back to me?"

"Then open your arms, mother dear," cried a well-known voice, "and take me back again." And
Proserpina came running along the pathway and flung herself on her mother's bosom.

It would be impossible to tell how happy they were; so happy that they cried a little, for
people cry when they are very glad as well as when they are unhappy. But a servant brought
me a pomegranate on a golden-plate, a very dry pomegranate, with no juice inside, nothing but
seeds and skin; and I was so hungry, and had not tasted any food for such a long time, that
I took just one bite. The moment I tasted it King Pluto and Mercury came into the room. I had
not swallowed a morsel, but O mother! I hope it was no harm, six pomegranate seeds remained
in my mouth and I swallowed them."

"Do not be so vexed, mother dear," said Proserpina. "It was very unkind of King Pluto to carry
me off, but then, as he says, it was such a dismal life for him to lead in that great palace
all alone: and he says he has been much happier since he had me to run about the big rooms
and to play beside him. If only he will let me spend six months every year with you, I think
I can bear to spend the other six months beside him. After all, he was as kind as he knew how
to be, but I am very glad he cannot keep me the whole year round."

PYRAMUS AND THISBE

ADAPTED BY ALICE ZIMMERN

In Babylon, the great and wonderful city on the Euphrates, there lived in two adjoining houses
a youth and a maiden named Pyramus and Thisbe. Hardly a day passed without their meeting, and
at last they came to know and love one another. But when Pyramus sought Thisbe in marriage,
the parents would not hear of it, and even forbade the lovers to meet or speak to each other
any more. But though they could no longer be openly together, they saw each other at a distance
and sent messages by signs and tokens.

One day to their great delight they discovered a tiny crack in the wall between the two houses,
through which they could hear each other speak. But a few words whispered through a chink in
the wall could not satisfy two ardent lovers, and they tried to arrange a meeting. They would
slip away one night unnoticed and meet somewhere outside the city. A spot near the tomb of
Ninus was chosen, where a mulberry tree grew near a pleasant spring of water.

At nightfall Thisbe put on a thick veil, slipped out of the house unobserved and made her way
in haste to the city gates. She was first at the trysting-place and sat down under the tree
to wait for her lover. A strange noise made her look up, and she saw by the clear moonlight
a lioness with bloody jaws coming to drink at the spring. Thisbe sprang up, and dropping her
cloak in her haste ran to hide herself in a neighboring cave. The lioness, who had already
eaten, did not care to pursue her, but finding the cloak lying on the ground, pulled it to
bits and left the marks of blood on the torn mantle. Now Pyramus in his turn came to the place
and found no Thisbe, but only her torn and bloodstained cloak. "Surely," he thought, "some
beast must have devoured her, for here lies her cloak, all mangled and bloodstained. Alas,
that I came too late! Her love for me led Thisbe to brave the perils of night and danger, and
I was not here to protect and save her. She dies a victim to her love, but she shall not perish
alone. One same night will see the end of both lovers. Come, ye lions, and devour me too, 'tis
my one prayer. Yet 'tis a coward's part to pray for death when his own hands can give it."

With these words he drew Thisbe's cloak towards him, and covered it with kisses. "My blood
too shall stain you," he cried, and plunged his sword with true aim in his breast. The blood
spouted forth as from a fountain and stained the white fruit of the mulberry overhead.

While Pyramus lay dying under the tree, Thisbe had recovered from her fright, and now stole
forth from her hiding-place, hoping that her lover might be at hand. What was her dismay when
she saw Pyramus stretched lifeless on the ground. Kneeling down beside him, she washed his
wound with her tears, and kissed his cold lips, calling on him in vain to speak. "Speak to
me, Pyramus," she cried, "'tis your beloved Thisbe that calls."

At the sound of her voice Pyramus opened his failing eyes, and gave his love one last look,
then he closed them for ever. When Thisbe saw her own cloak and the empty sheath, she guessed
that, thinking her dead, he had sought death himself.

"'Twas by your own hand you fell," she cried, "a victim to love, and love will give my hand
strength to do the like. Since those who were parted in life are united in death, perhaps our
sorrowing parents will grant us the boon of a common tomb. May we rest side by side, even as
we have fallen, and may this tree, which has witnessed our despair and our death, bear the
traces for evermore. Let its fruit be clothed in mourning garb for the death of two hapless
lovers."

With these words she threw herself on the sword of Pyramus. Her last prayer was granted, for
one urn held the ashes of the faithful pair. And since that night the mulberry tree bears purple
fruit to recall to all generations of lovers the cruel fate of Pyramus and Thisbe.

ORPHEUS

ADAPTED BY ALICE ZIMMERN

Orpheus, the Thracian singer, was the most famous of all the musicians of Greece. Apollo himself
had given him his golden harp, and on it he played music of such wondrous power and beauty
that rocks, trees and beasts would follow to hear him. Jason had persuaded Orpheus to accompany
the Argonauts when they went to fetch back the golden fleece, for he knew that the perils of
the way would be lightened by song. To the sound of his lyre the Argo had floated down to the
sea, and he played so sweetly when they passed the rocks of the Sirens that the dreadful monsters
sang their most alluring strains in vain.

Orpheus wedded the fair nymph Eurydice, whom he loved dearly, and who returned his love. But
at their marriage the omens were not favorable. Hymen, the marriage god, came to it with a
gloomy countenance and the wedding torches smoked and would not give forth a cheerful flame.

Indeed the happiness of Orpheus and Eurydice was to be but short-lived. For as the new-made
bride wandered through the woods with the other nymphs a poisonous serpent stung her heel,
and no remedy availed to save her. Orpheus was thrown into most passionate grief at his wife's
death. He could not believe that he had lost her for ever, but prayed day and night without
ceasing to the gods above to restore her to him. When they would not listen, he resolved to
make one last effort to win her back. He would go down to the Lower World and seek her among
the dead, and try whether any prayer or persuasion could move Pluto to restore his beloved.

Near Tænarum, in Laconia, was a cave among dark and gloomy rocks, through which led one of
the entrances to the Lower World. This was the road by which Hercules descended when he went
to carry off Cerberus, the three-headed dog that guards the threshold of Pluto. Undaunted by
the terrors of the place, Orpheus passed through this gate and down a dark and dismal road
to the kingdom of the dead. Here he came in safety through the crowd of ghosts and phantoms,
and stood at last before the throne of Pluto and Proserpina. Then he touched the chords of
his lyre and chanted these words:

"Great lords of the world below the earth, to which all we mortals must one day come, grant
me to tell a simple tale and declare unto you the truth. Not to look upon the blackness of
Tartarus have I come hither, nor yet to bind in chains the snaky heads on Cerberus. It is my
wife I seek. A viper's sting has robbed her of the years that were her due. I should have borne
my loss, indeed I tried to bear it, but I was overcome by Love, a god well known in the world
above, and I think not without honor in your kingdom, unless the story of Proserpina's theft
be a lying tale. I beseech you, by the realms of the dead, by mighty Chaos and the silence
of your vast kingdom, revoke the untimely doom of Eurydice. All our lives are forfeit to you.
'Tis but a short delay, and late or soon we all hasten towards one goal. Hither all our footsteps
tend. This is our last home, yours is the sole enduring rule over mankind. She too, when she
shall have lived her allotted term of years, will surely come under your sway. Till then, I
implore you, let her be mine. But if the Fates refuse a husband's prayers, I am resolved never
to return hence. My death shall give you a double boon."

Thus he prayed and touched his harp in tune with his words. All around him the lifeless ghosts
came flocking, and as they heard they wept. Tantalus forgot his hunger and thirst. Ixion's
wheel stood still, the Danaids set aside their leaky urns and Sisyphus sat on his stone to
listen. Never yet had such sweet strains been heard in the world of gloom. Then, for the first
time, tears moistened the cheeks of the Furies, and even the king and queen of the dead were
moved to pity. They summoned Eurydice, and she came, yet halting from her recent wound.

"Take her," says Pluto, "and lead her back to the light. But she must follow you at a distance,
nor must you once turn round to look upon her till you have passed beyond these realms. Else
the boon we grant you will be but vain."

A steep path led upward from the realm of darkness, and the way was hard to find through the
gloom. In silence Orpheus led on, till the goal was close at hand and the welcoming light of
the upper air began to penetrate the darkness. Then a sudden fear struck his heart. Had Eurydice
really followed his steps, or had she turned back, and was all his toil in vain? Tom with anxiety
and longing, he turned to gaze on his beloved. Dimly he saw her, but for the last time, for
a power she could not resist drew her back. Orpheus stretched out his arms and tried to seize
her, but he only clasped the empty air. "Farewell, a last farewell," she murmured, and vanished
from his sight.

In vain Orpheus tried to follow her, in vain he besought Charon to carry him a second time
across the waters of Acheron. Seven days he sat on the further bank without food or drink,
nourished by his tears and grief. Then at last he knew that the gods below were pitiless; and
full of sorrow he returned to the upper earth.

For three years he wandered among the mountains of Thrace, finding his only consolation in
the music of his lyre, for he shunned all men and women and would have no bride after Eurydice.

One day he sat down to rest on a grassy hill in the sunshine, and played and sang to beguile
his sorrow. As he played, the coolness of shady branches seemed all about him, and looking
up he found himself in the midst of a wood. Oak, poplar, lime, beech, laurel, ash, pine, plane
and maple and many another tree had gathered together here, drawn from their distant forest
homes by the sounds of Orpheus's lyre. Yes, and the beasts and the birds of the field came
too, and Orpheus sat in their midst and sang and played the tunes of sorrow.

Suddenly a great noise was heard of laughter and shouting and merry-making. For this was one
of the feasts of Bacchus, and the women were celebrating his rites, wandering over the mountains
with dance and revel. When they saw Orpheus they set up a shout of derision. "See," they cried,
"the wretched singer who mocks at women and will have no bride but the dead. Come, let us kill
him, and show that no man shall despise us unpunished."

With these words they began to throw wands and stones at him, but even the lifeless objects
were softened by the music, and fell harmlessly to the ground. Then the women raised a wild
shout and made such a clamor with trumpets and cymbals, that the soft tones of the harp were
drowned by the noise. Now at last the shots took effect, and in their fury the women fell upon
him, dealing blow on blow. Orpheus fell lifeless to the ground.

But he was not to die unwept. The little birds of the forest mourned for him, even the stony
rocks wept, the trees shed their leaves with grief, and the dryads and naiads tore their hair
and put on the garb of sorrow. Only the pitiless revelers knew no remorse. They seized the
singer's head and threw it with his lyre into the river Hebrus. There it floated down stream
and, strange to tell, the chords gave forth a lament, and the lifeless tongue uttered words.
"Eurydice, Eurydice," it cried, till head and lyre were carried down to the sea, and on to
Lesbos, the isle of sweet song, where in after years Alcaeus and Sappho tuned afresh the lyre
of Orpheus.

But the shade of the dead singer went down to Hades, and found entrance at last. Thus Orpheus
and Eurydice were re-united, and won in death the bliss that was denied them in life.

"Will he never come back to Asgard again?" Who was it?" After this Odin mounted the eight-footed
once more and rode thoughtfully home. "Well," said Loki to himself, "if this is the sport of
Asgard, what must that of Jötunheim be?

"That I have, indeed," answered Loki in a tremulous, squeaking voice.

Hödur threw--Baldur fell, and the shadow of death covered the whole earth. Then they stood
waiting to see who would come to the funeral. So they beckoned to the giantess Hyrrokin to
come over from Jötunheim and help them. Its broad red flame burst forth heavenward, but when
the smoke would have gone upward too, the winds came sobbing and carried it away.

THOR'S ADVENTURES AMONG THE JÖTUNS

ADAPTED BY JULIA GODDARD

Once upon a time Thor set out upon his travels, taking Loki with him, for despite Loki's spirit
of mischief he often aided Thor, who doubtless, in the present expedition, felt that Loki might
be of use to him.

So they set off together in Thor's chariot, drawn by its two strong he-goats, and as night
drew nigh, stopped at the hut of a peasant, where they asked food and shelter.

"Food I have none to give you," said the peasant. "I am a poor man and not able even to give
supper to my children, but if you like to rest under my roof you are welcome to do so."

"Never mind the food; I can manage that," said Thor, dismounting from the chariot and entering
the hut.

It was a poor place, and not at all fitted to receive one of the Asi, but Thor was glad enough
to meet with it, wretched as it was.

"You can kill the goats," said he; "they will make us an excellent meal."

The peasant could not help thinking that it was a pity to kill two such fine animals; but wisely
thinking that this was no affair of his, and that the stranger had a right to do as he pleased
with his own, he set himself to obey Thor's orders, and with the help of his daughter Raska
soon spread a savory repast before the hungry god and his attendant.

"Sit down, all of you," said Thor; "there is enough and to spare."

So they all sat down, and the peasant and his children shared a more plentiful meal than had
fallen to their lot lately. Thor and Loki also did ample justice to the food, and when supper
was over the thunder-god bade the peasant gather the bones and place them in the goatskins,
and making them into a bundle he left them on the floor until the next morning.

When the morning came and the early sun shone in through the crevices, Thor raised his hammer,
and instead of the bundle of bones the peasant and his son and daughter saw the two goats standing
as fresh and lively as if nothing had happened to them, saving that one of them halted a little
in his walk.

When they sought to learn why this should be, it was found that Thialfe, the boy, in getting
the marrow out of one of the bones, had broken it, and it was this that caused the goat to go lame.

Thor was very angry, and was very near killing not only Thialfe but also the peasant and his
daughter Raska, but they begged so hard for their lives that he consented to spare them on
condition that the boy and girl should follow him in his travels.

To this they agreed, and Thor, leaving the chariot and goats in the peasant's care, went on
his journey, giving Thialfe, who was a very swift runner, his wallet to carry.

On and on they journeyed until they came to a great sea.

"How are we to get over this?" asked Loki.

"Swim across it," replied Thor.

And in they all plunged, for Thialfe and Raska were used to a hardy life, and so were able
to swim with scarcely more weariness than Thor and Loki, and were not long in reaching the
opposite shore.

"The country does not improve," said Loki, looking round upon the desolate plain that lay outstretched
between them and the borders of a dark forest, which they could just see in the far distance.
One or two huge rocks thrust their jagged points high into the air, and great blocks of stone
were scattered about, but there was no sign of herbage and not a tree to be seen nearer than
the forest belt bounding the horizon. Heavy gray clouds were drawing nearer and nearer to the
dreary earth, and twilight was fast approaching. "It looks not well," answered Thor, "but we
must push on and perhaps may find it better as we go onward. Besides, night is drawing nigh,
and as there are no dwellings to be seen we must try to gain the shelter of the forest before
it is too dark to see where we are going."

So they pushed on, and though they looked to the right hand and to the left, soon found that
they were in a land where no men lived. There was, therefore, nothing to be done but to quicken
their speed, in order to reach the shelter of the forest. But though they strove to the utmost,
the twilight deepened into darkness and the darkness became so deep by the time they reached
the forest, that they only knew they had arrived there by Loki's striking his head against
a low branch, and soon after this Thor cried out:

"Good luck! I have found a house. Follow close after me and we will make ourselves comfortable
for the night."

For Thor in groping along had come to what he supposed to be a wall of solid masonry.

"Where are you?" asked Loki, "for it is so dark that I cannot see you."

"Here," answered Thor, stretching out his hand; "take hold and follow me."

So Loki clutched Thor's arm, and Thialfe in turn seized the arm of Loki, whilst Raska clung
to her brother and wished herself safe at home in her father's hut.

And thus they groped their way along the wall, seeking to find an entrance to the house.

At last Thor found a huge entrance opening into a wide, hall, and passing through this they
turned to the left into a large room which was quite empty, and here, after eating some food,
they stretched themselves upon the hard floor and wearied out with the day's march, soon fell
asleep.

But they did not sleep long. Their slumbers were broken by a rumbling sound as of a coming
earthquake; the walls of the house shook, and peals of thunder echoed through the lofty chamber.

Thor sprang up. "We are scarcely safe here," he said; "let us seek some other room." Loki jumped
up speedily, as did also Thialfe and Raska, who were in a great fright, wondering what dreadful
thing was going to happen to them. They willingly followed Thor, hoping to find a safer place.

To the right they saw another room like a long gallery with a huge doorway, and into this Loki,
Thialfe, and Raska crept, choosing the farthest corner of it; but Thor took his stand at the
doorway to be on the watch if any fresh danger should threaten them.

After a somewhat uncomfortable rest, Loki, Thialfe, and Raska were not sorry to find that the
day had dawned, though as there were no windows in the house, they only knew it by hearing
the cock crow.

Thor was better off, for the doorway was so wide that the sunlight came pouring in without
hindrance. Indeed the huge size of the doorway made Thor think that the builder must have given
up all hope of ever finding a door large enough to fit into it.

He strolled away from the house, and the first thing that he saw was a huge giant fast asleep
upon the greensward; and now he knew that the thunder that had so frightened them in the night
had been nothing more or less than the loud snoring of the giant.

So wroth was Thor at the thought that such a thing should have made him afraid, that he fastened
on his belt of strength and drew his sword and made towards the giant as though he would kill
him on the spot.

But the giant, opening his great round eyes, stared so steadily at Thor that the god became
mazed and could do nothing but stare in return.

At last, however, he found voice to ask, "What is your name?"

"My name," said the giant, raising himself on one elbow, thereby causing his head to rise so
high into the air that Thor thought it was taking flight altogether, "is Skrymner; you, I believe,
are the god Thor?"

"I am," answered the god.

"Do you happen to have picked up my glove?" asked the giant carelessly.

Then Thor knew that what he and his companions had taken for a large house was only the giant's
glove, and from this we may judge how huge a giant Skrymner must have been.

Thor made no answer, and Skrymner next asked whither Thor was traveling; and when he found
that he was journeying to Utgard, offered to bear him company, as he too was going to the same
place.

Thor accepted the giant's offer, and after eating a hearty meal, all were ready for another
day's march.

Skrymner showed himself a kindly giant, and insisted upon carrying Thor's bag of meal, putting
it into his own wallet, which he slung across his broad shoulders.

It must have been a strange sight, indeed, to see the great giant stalking along with his smaller
companions at his heels; and we may well marvel how they managed to keep pace with him, or
how Thor was able to raise his voice to such a pitch as to reach the giant's ears.

Nevertheless all went well, and they trudged cheerfully along, never flagging in their talk.

Once Skrymner took Raska on his shoulder, but the height made her so giddy that she was glad
to come down again and walk quietly by the side of Thialfe.

When night overtook them they encamped under one of the great oak-trees, for they were not
yet out of the bounds of the forest. Skrymner, to judge by his loud snoring, fell asleep the
moment he lay down upon the ground, but Thor and his comrades were not so tired as to forget
that they had tasted nothing since breakfast time. Accordingly they set to work to open the
wallet that Skrymner had given into their hands before closing his eyes.

But it was no easy task, and with all their efforts they failed to open it. Not a knot could
they untie, and their fingers were chafed and aching.

Neither were they more able to awaken Skyrmner, and Thor's anger waxed exceedingly fierce.
"You shall pay for this," said he, flinging his hammer at the giant.

Skrymner half opened the eye nearest to Thor, and said in a very sleepy voice, "Why will the
leaves drop off the trees?" And then he snored as loudly as before.

Thor picked up his hammer, and approaching nearer drove it into the hinder part of the giant's
head, who again, half waking up, muttered, "How troublesome the dust is!"

Thor was exceedingly astonished at this, but thought nevertheless that he would once more make
trial of his power; so coming up close to Skrymner he struck with such force as to drive the
hammer up to the handle in the giant's cheek.

Then Skrymner opened both eyes, and lazily lifting his finger to his face said, "I suppose
there are birds about, for I fancied I felt a feather fall."

Now was Thor fairly disconcerted; and the next morning, when the giant told him that they must
now part, as his road led him another way, he was by no means ill-pleased, and he let Skrymner
go without so much as bidding him "good speed." Skrymner, however, seemed not to notice that
Thor was glad to be quit of his company, and gave him some very friendly advice before he left him.

"If you will take my advice," said the giant, "you will give up this thought of visiting Utgard.
The people there are all giants of greater stature even than I, and they make nothing of little
men, such as you are. Nay, more, you yourself are likely to fare but badly amongst them, for
I see that you are rather apt to think too much of yourself and to take too much upon you.
Be wise while there is time, think of what I say, and don't go near the city."

"But I will go there," shouted Thor, almost choked with rage; "I will go in spite of all the
Jötuns of Jötunheim. None shall hinder me, and the giants shall see and wonder at the mighty
power of the god Thor."

And as he spoke the rising sun fell full upon the city of Utgard, whose huge brazen gates glittered
in the sunlight. Even though they were so far away, Thor could see how high they were; and
as he drew nearer, their vast size filled him with amazement; but when he reached them his
wonder was beyond all words, for he and his companions seemed no larger than grasshoppers,
in comparison with their height.

The gates were not open, for it was yet early; so Thor and his comrades crept through the bars,
and entered the city. As they passed along the streets the houses were so tall that it was
only by crossing to the opposite side of the broad road that they were able to see the windows
in the topmost stories. And the streets were so wide that it was quite a journey across them.

Once a mouse darted out of a hole, and Raska screamed, for she thought it was a grisly bear.
The mouse also shrieked and made much more noise than Raska, as well it might, for a cat so
huge that Thialfe half thought it must be the monster of Midgard seized it, and giving it a
pat with one of its paws laid it dead on the pavement.

As for the horses, their hoofs were terrible to look at, and Thialfe and Raska must have climbed
up ladders if they wished to see their heads.

The people were quite as large as Skrymner had described and Thor and his companions were obliged
to be very careful lest they should get trodden upon, as it was very doubtful if the people
even saw them.

Still Thor walked along with the proud consciousness that he was the god Thor; and feeling
that though he was so small he was yet a person of some importance, made his way to the palace,
and desired to see the King.

After some little time he and his fellow travelers were ushered into the presence of Utgarda
Loke, the King of the country. And Utgarda Loke, hearing the door open, raised his eyes, thinking
to see some great courtier enter, but he knew nothing of the bows and greetings of Thor, until
happening to cast his eyes to the ground, he saw a little man with his companions saluting
him with much ceremony.

The King had never seen such small men before, and there was something so absurd to him in
the sight, that he burst out laughing.

And then all the courtiers laughed also, pretending that they had not seen the little creatures
before.

It was some time before they all left off laughing, but at length there was a pause, and Thor
essayed to make himself heard.

"Though we are but small in comparison with the Jötuns," said he angrily, "we are by no means
to be despised, but are gifted with powers that may surprise you."

"Really!" answered Utgarda Loke, raising his eyebrows. And then he and his courtiers laughed
louder than before.

At last there was another pause in their merriment, and the King added: "However, we are willing
to give the strangers a fair trial in order to prove the truth of what their spokesman, whom
I take to be the god Thor, says. How say you? What can this one do?" And he pointed to Loki.

"Please your Majesty, I am very great at eating," returned Loki.

"Nay," answered Utgarda Loke, "you must grow a little before you are great at anything."

At which speech the courtiers again shouted with laughter; but Utgarda Loke, turning to his
servants, bade them make trial of Loki's powers. So they brought a great trough full of food,
and Loki was placed at one end, and a courtier named Loge at the other. They both fell to work
to devour what was before them, and met at the middle of the trough. But it was found that
while Loki had eaten the flesh of his portion, Loge had eaten, not only the flesh, but the
bones also. Therefore Loki, was, of course, vanquished.

Then Utgarda Loke turned to Thialfe. "And pray, in what may this youth be specially skilled?"
he asked.

"I am a swift skater," answered Thialfe.

"Try him," said the King.

And Thialfe was led to a plain of ice, as smooth as glass, and one named Hugr was set to run
against him. But though Thialfe was the swiftest skater ever known in the world, yet Hugr glided
past him so fleetly that he had returned to the starting-post before Thialfe had done more
than a quarter of the distance.

Three times did Thialfe match his speed against Hugr, and, three times beaten, withdrew from
the contest as disconsolate as Loki.

"And now may I ask what you can do yourself?" said the King to Thor.

"I can drain a wine-cup with any one," replied the god.

"Try him," said Utgarda Loke.

And forthwith the royal cupbearer presented a drinking-horn to Thor.

"If you are as great as you pretend to be," said the King, "you will drain it at one draught.
Some people take two pulls at it, but the weakest among us can manage it in three."

Thor took up the horn, and, being very thirsty, took a steady pull at it. He thought he had
done very well, but on removing it from his lips he marveled to see how little had gone.

A second time he took a draught, but the horn was far from being emptied.

Again a third time he essayed to drain it, but it was full almost to the brim.

Therefore he set it down in despair, and confessed himself unable to drain it.

"I am disappointed in you," said Utgarda Loke; "you are not half the man I took you for. I
see it is no use asking you to do warrior's feats; I must try you in a simpler way, in a child's
play that we have amongst us. You shall try to lift my cat from the ground."

Thor turned quite scarlet, and then became white with rage.

"Are you afraid?" asked Utgarde Loke; "you look so pale."

And a large gray cat came leaping along, and planted itself firmly before Thor, showing its
sharp claws, and glaring upon him with its fiery eyes.

Thor seized it, but in spite of all his efforts he was only able to raise one of the cat's
paws from the ground.

"Pooh! pooh!" exclaimed Utgarda Loke, "you are a mere baby, fit only for the nursery. I believe
that my old nurse Hela would be more than a match for you. Here, Hela, come and wrestle with
the mighty god Thor."

And Utgarda Loke laughed disdainfully.

Forth stepped a decrepit old woman, with lank cheeks and toothless jaws. Her eyes were sunken,
her brow furrowed, and her scanty locks were white as snow.

She advanced towards Thor, and tried to throw him to the ground; but though he put forth his
whole strength to withstand her, he was surprised to find how powerful she was, and that it
needed all his efforts to keep his feet. For a long time he was successful, but at length she
brought him down upon one knee, and Thor was obliged to acknowledge himself conquered.

Ashamed and mortified, he and his companions withdrew to a lodging for the night, and in the
morning were making ready to leave the city quietly, when Utgarda Loke sent for them.

He made them a splendid feast, and afterwards went with them beyond the city gates.

"Now tell me honestly," said he to Thor, "what do you think of your success?"

"I am beyond measure astounded and ashamed," replied the god.

"Ha! ha!" laughed Utgarda Loke. "I knew that you were. However, as we are well out of the city
I don't mind telling you a secret or two. Doubtless you will receive a little comfort from
my doing so, as you confess that your coming hither has been to no purpose.

"In the first place, you have been deceived by enchantments ever since you came within the
borders of Jötunheim. I am the giant you met with on your way hither, and if I had known as
much of your power then as I do now, you would never have found your way within the walls of
Utgard.

"Certainly I had had some slight experience of it, for the three blows you gave me would have
killed me had they fallen upon me. But it was not I, but a huge mountain that you struck at;
and if you visit it again, you will find three valleys cleft in the rocks by the strokes of
your hammer.

"As for the wallet, I had fastened it with a magic chain, so that you need not wonder that
you could not open it.

"Loge, with whom Loki strove, was no courtier, but a subtle devouring flame that consumed all
before it."

Here Loki uttered an exclamation of delight, but Thor bade him be silent, and Utgarda Loke went on:

"Thialfe's enemy was Hugr, or Thought, and let man work away as hard as he pleases, Thought
will still outrun him.

"As for yourself, the end of the drinking-horn, though you did not see it, reached the sea,
and as fast as you emptied it, it filled again, so that you never could have drained it dry.
But the next time that you stand upon the seashore, you will find how much less the ocean is
by your draughts.

"The gray cat was no cat, but the great Serpent of Midgard, that twines round the world, and
you lifted him so high that we were all quite frightened.

"But your last feat was the most wonderful of all, for Hela was none other than Death. And
never did I see any one before over whom Death had so little power.

"And now, my friend, go your way, and don't come near my city again, for I tell you plainly
I do not want you there, and I shall use all kinds of enchantment to keep you out of it."

As he ended his speech, Thor raised his hammer, but Utgarda Loke had vanished.

"I will return to the city, and be avenged," said Thor.

But lo! the giant city was nowhere to be seen. A fair pasture-land spread itself out around
him, and through its midst a broad river flowed peacefully along.

So Thor and his companions, musing upon their wonderful adventures, turned their steps homewards.

THE APPLES OF IDUN

ADAPTED BY HAMILTON WRIGHT MABIE

Once upon a time Odin, Loki, and Hoenir started on a journey.

THE GIFTS OF THE DWARFS

Thor was, you may know, the strongest and noblest of the great giants of the north. He was
tall in stature and had fiery brown eyes, from which the light flashed like lightning, while
his long red beard waved through the sky as he drove in his goat-drawn chariot. Brilliant sparks
flew from the hoofs and teeth of the two goats, while a crown of bright stars shone above Thor's
head. When he was angered the wheels of his chariot rumbled and crashed their passage through
the air, until men trembled and hid, telling each other that Thor had gone to battle with the
Rime-giants or other of his enemies.

Now Thor's wife was named Sib, and she was most beautiful to look upon. Her soft, browny-gold
hair was so long and thick that it would cover her from the crown of her head to her little
feet, and her deep brown eyes looked into the faces of her friends as those of a mother look
into the face of her child. Loki, the mischief-maker among the giants, often looked at Sib
and longed to do her some evil, for he was jealous, thinking that it was not right that she
should be praised and loved by everyone; go where he would he could find no one who did not
speak well of her.

It happened one day when the summer was nearly gone that Loki found Sib alone and sleeping
on a bank near the river, so he drew his knife, and creeping softly nearer and nearer, cut
off her beautiful flowing hair quite close to her head. Then he joyfully rushed away and strewed
it far and wide over the whole earth, so that it became no longer living and golden but faded
and turned a dull color as the winds blew it about and the rains beat upon it, and crushed
it in between the rocks and stones. When Sib awoke and was about to push the hair from her
face, she felt that something was wrong. Wonderingly she ran to the water and looking at her
reflection in the clear depths, saw that nothing but a short stubble stood up all over her
head. All her lovely hair was gone! Only one would have dared to treat her so badly, and in
her grief and anger she called upon Thor to come to her aid.

Loki had of course fled and was hiding far away in another country among the rocks when he
heard the distant rumblings of thunder, and tried to shrink deeper into the crevices between
the great stones, but the awful sound grew louder, and at last the angry flash from Thor's
eyes darted to the very spot where the mischievous one lay. Then Thor pulled him out and shook
him from side to side in his enormous hands, and would have crushed his bones upon the hard
rocks had not Loki in great terror asked what good his death would do, for it certainly would
not bring Sib's hair back. Then Thor set the mischief-maker on his feet, though still keeping
a tight hold on him, and asked what he would do to repair the evil which he had done. Loki
promptly answered that he would go down into the mountains to the dwarfs, and get Iwald's sons
to make some golden hair for Sib, as good as that which he had destroyed. Now Iwald had had
seven sons, and these all lived deep below the earth in the great caverns which lie below the
mountains, and these sons were small and dark; they did not like the daylight for they were
dwarfs who could see best without the sun to dazzle their eyes; they knew where gold and silver
grew, and they could tell where to find beautiful shining stones, which were red, and white,
and yellow, and green; they knew the way all over the world by running through caverns and
passages under the mountains, and wherever they could find precious stones or metals they built
a furnace, and made an anvil, and hammer and bellows, and everything that was wanted in a smithy;
for they knew how to fashion the most wonderful things from gold and iron and stone, and they
had knowledge which made them more powerful than the people who lived above the ground.

Thor let the mischief-maker go to get the help of the dwarfs to repair the wrong which he had
done, and Loki sought about the mountain-side until he found a hole which would lead him into
Iwald's cave, and then he promptly dropped into it. There in a dark cave gleaming with many
sparkling lights he went to the two cleverest dwarfs who were named Sindri and Brok, and told
them what it was he wanted, adding that he would be in sore trouble with Thor if they could
not help him. Now Sindri and Brok knew all about Loki perfectly well; they knew all about his
mischievous ways and the evil he so often wrought, but as they liked Thor and Sib they were
willing to give the help which was asked of them. Thus without more ado, for these dwarfs never
wasted their words, Sindri and Brok began their work.

Huge blocks of earth-brown stone were cast into the furnace until they were in a white heat,
when drop by drop red gold trickled from them into the ashes. This was all gathered together,
and the glistening heap taken to the dwarf women, who, crushing it in their hands before it
had hardened, drew it out upon their wheels, and spun it into fine soft hair. While they were
doing this Brok sought amongst his treasures until he found the blue of the ocean and the tough
inner pith of an underground tree; these, with other things, were cast into the furnace, and
afterwards beaten with his hammer. As the rhythmic strokes fell, the women sang a song which
was like the voice of a strong, steady wind. Then when this work was finished, the smith drew
forth a little ship, which was carefully placed on one side. The third time the dwarf went
to a dark corner, and brought out an ugly bent bar of iron, and this, with two feathers from
the wings of the wind, was heated to melting whiteness, and wrought with great cunning and
extreme care, for it was to be a spear for Odin himself, the greatest of all the heroes.

Then Brok and Sindri called Loki to them and giving him these three things bade him hasten
back to the gods at Asgard and appease their wrath. Loki, however, was already beginning to
feel sorry that he had been so successful; he liked teasing folk but he did not like having
to atone for his mischief afterwards. He turned the marvelous gifts over scornfully in his
hands, and said that he did not see anything very wonderful in them; then, looking at Sindri
he added, "However, Brok has hammered them very skilfully, and I will wager my head that you
could not make anything better."

Now the brother dwarfs had not by any means expected gratitude, but neither had they expected
any such rudeness as this, so Sindri determined to give Loki a lesson. Going to one corner
of the smithy he picked up a pig-skin and taking the hammer in his hands, told his brother
to blow steadily, neither to falter nor to fail until he passed the word that the work was
done. Then with strength and gentleness he wrought with his tools, having cast nothing into
the heat but the pig-skin; with mighty blows and delicate touches he brought thickness and
substance into it, until a board looked at him from the flames. Loki, fearing for his head,
changed himself into an enormous forest fly, and settling upon Brok's hand, stung with vicious
fury; but the dwarf would not trouble to brush the fly away, and steadily moved the bellows
until his brother called to him to stop, when they drew forth a strong flexible boar whose
bristles were of the finest gold.

Then without saying anything or paying any attention to the spiteful words which Loki kept
uttering, Sindri chose from a heap of gold the most solid lump he could find and flung it into
the white flames. Thrice it was heated and cooled, and the dark elf turned it and worked it
with wonderful skill, and in the glow Loki saw a broad red ring, which seemed to live and move.
Again he tried to spoil the work as a fly, and bit deeply into Brok's neck, but Brok would
not so much as raise his hand to rid him of the pain. When the ring was finally laid to cool,
so marvelously had it been wrought that from it each ninth night would fall eight rings as
beautiful as itself.

Now came the last test of Sindri's cunning. He cast into the furnace a piece of fine iron,
and told Brok his hand must neither tremble nor stay, or the whole of their work would be useless.
Then with wild songs of strength upon his lips he hammered and tapped, until those who were
in the cave felt that they were out among the roaring waves; they could hear the ice mountains
grind and crash to pieces, and the thunder of Thor's chariot wheels rushing through the heavens.
A frenzied horror seized upon Loki's mind. If these wretched dwarfs were going to make anything
to add to Thor's strength he knew that it would be his own ruin. So, changing himself to a
hornet, he sprang upon the forehead of Brok, and dug so fiercely into his eyelids that the
blood trickled down and blinded him. Then the dwarf let go of the bellows for one moment to
clear his eyes, and Sindri cried out that what lay in the furnace came near to being spoiled,
and with that he took a red-hot hammer up with his tongs. It was neither pretty, nor particularly
large, while the handle was an inch too short because of Loki's spite.

Then Brok and Loki set out for Asgard, Loki carrying the three wonderful things which had been
given to him, while Brok carried the three marvels which Sindri had so cunningly wrought and
accompanied the mischief-maker, that the gods might judge who had won the wager so rashly offered
by Loki. When they reached Asgard the gods seated themselves on their high seats agreeing among
themselves that Odin, Thor and Frey should be judges in this case.

First, Loki offered to Odin the spear Gungner which was so wonderfully made that it never failed
to hit the thing at which it was thrown, and it always sped back to the hand which had thrown
it. Later, when Odin carried this spear in battle, if he shook it over his enemies they became
so frightened that they all wanted to run away, but if he shook it over his friends they were
so filled with courage that they could not be conquered. Then Thor received the hair, and when
it was placed upon Sib's head it grew to her like living tresses, curling and waving in the
wind. To Frey the ship was given, and though it was so small that it could be folded and carried
in his pocket, when it was placed upon the waves it would grow large enough to hold an army
of warriors with all their war gear; besides, as soon as the sails were hoisted, the wind would
blow it whithersoever it was desired that the ship should go.

Brok then made his offerings, and to Odin he gave the ring Drapnir which had been made with
such magic skill that every ninth night eight other rings dropped off it, though no one could
see how they came; this the greatest of the gods ever wore upon his arm, until the death of
his beautiful son Baldur, when, as token of his great love he placed it upon the dead youth's
breast as he lay on his funeral pyre. To Frey was given the golden boar, which would run faster
than any horse, over the sea or through the air, and wherever it went, there it would be light,
because the bristles shone so brightly. To Thor Brok gave the dull-looking hammer, saying,
that whatever he struck with it would be destroyed; that no blow could be hard enough to hurt
it; that if he threw it, it would return to him so that he could never lose it; and that as
he wished so would its size be--yet there was one fault about it, and that was that the handle
was an inch too short.

It was with great joy that Thor took this treasure, knowing that in it he had something to
help him in fighting the evil Rime-giants who were always trying to get the whole world for
themselves until driven back by him.

Then the gods decided that of all the gifts the hammer was the best, and that, therefore, Loki
had lost his wager and must lose his head. Loki offered to give all sorts of things to save
himself, but the dwarf would not listen to any of them. "Catch me, then!" cried the mischievous
one; but when Brok stretched his hand upon him Loki had gone, for he wore shoes which would
carry him over the sea or through the air.

"Catch him!" cried the ugly little dwarf piteously to Thor, and in an instant Loki stood before
them, trembling in Thor's strong grasp. Then the clever one argued that it was his head only
which had been wagered, and that not one little tiny bit of his neck might be taken, or the
dwarf would have more than his bargain. At this Brok cried impatiently that the head of a wicked
person was of no use to him, all that he wanted was to stop Loki's tongue so that he could
work less evil, and he took a knife and thread and tried to pierce holes in Loki's lips, but
Loki bewitched the knife so that it would not cut.

"If only I had Sindri's awl," sighed the dwarf, and instantly his brother's awl was in his
hand. Swiftly it pierced the lips of the mischief-maker, and swiftly Brok sewed them together
and broke off the thread at the end of the sewing.

Then the gods gave presents for the dwarfs in return for their wonderful things, and Brok returned
to his cave. As for Loki, it was not long before he loosed his lips and returned to his mischief-making.

THE PUNISHMENT OF LOKI

ADAPTED FROM A. AND E. KEARY'S VERSION

After the death of Baldur, Loki never again ventured to intrude himself into the presence of
the gods. He knew well enough that he had now done what could never be forgiven him, and that,
for the future, he must bend all his cunning and vigilance to the task of hiding himself from
the gaze of those whom he had so injured, and escaping the just punishment he had brought upon
himself.

"The world is large, and I am very clever," said Loki to himself, as he turned his back upon
Asgard, and wandered out into Manheim; "there is no end to the thick woods, and no measure
for the deep waters; neither is there any possibility of counting the various forms under which
I shall disguise myself. Odin will never be able to find me; I have no cause to fear." But
though Loki repeated this over and over again to himself, he was afraid.

He wandered far into the thick woods, and covered himself with the deep waters; he climbed
to the tops of misty hills, and crouched in the dark of hollow caves; but above the wood, and
through the water, and down into the darkness, a single ray of calm, clear light seemed always
to follow him, and he knew that it came from the eye of Odin who was watching him from Air Throne.

Then he tried to escape the watchful eye by disguising himself under various shapes. Sometimes
he was an eagle on a lonely mountain-crag; sometimes he hid himself as one among a troop of
timid reindeer; sometimes he lay in the nest of a wood-pigeon; sometimes he swam, a bright-spotted
fish, in the sea; but, wherever he was, among living creatures, or alone with dead nature,
everything seemed to know him, and to find a voice in which to say to him, "You are Loki, and
you have killed Baldur." Air, earth, or water, there was no rest for him anywhere.

Tired at last of seeking what he could nowhere find, Loki built himself a house near a narrow,
glittering river which, lower down flashed from a high rock into the sea below. He took care
that his house should have four doors in it, that he might look out on every side and catch
the first glimpse of the gods when they came, as he knew they would come, to take him away.
Here his wife, Siguna, and his two sons, Ali and Nari, came to live with him.

Siguna was a kind woman, far too good and kind for Loki. She felt sorry for him now that she
saw he was in great fear, and that every living thing had turned against him, and she would
have hidden him from the just anger of the gods if she could; but the two sons cared little
about their father's dread and danger; they spent all their time in quarreling with each other;
and their loud, angry voices, sounding above the waterfall, would speedily have betrayed the
hiding-place, even if Odin's piercing eye had not already found it out.

At last, one day when he was sitting in the middle of his house looking alternately out of
all the four doors and amusing himself as well as he could by making a fishing-net, he spied
in the distance the whole company of the gods approaching his house. The sight of them coming
all together--beautiful, and noble, and free--pierced Loki with a pang that was worse than
death. He rose without daring to look again, threw his net on a fire that burned on the floor,
and, rushing to the side of the little river, he turned himself into a salmon, swam down to
the deepest, stillest pool at the bottom, and hid himself between two stones. The gods entered
the house, and looked all round in vain for Loki, till Kvasir, one of Odin's sons, famous for
his keen sight, spied out the remains of the fishing-net in the fire; then Odin knew at once
that there was a river near, and that it was there where Loki had hidden himself. He ordered
his sons to make a new net, and to cast it into the water, and drag out whatever living thing
they could find there. It was done as he desired. Thor held one end of the net, and all the
rest of the gods drew the other through the water. When they pulled it up the first time, however,
it was empty, and they would have gone away disappointed had not Kvasir, looking earnestly
at the meshes of the net, saw that something living had certainly touched them. They then added
a weight to the net, and threw it with such force that it reached the bottom of the river,
and dragged up the stones in the pool.

Loki now saw the danger he was in of being caught in the net, and, as there was no other way
of escape, he rose to the surface, swam down the river as quickly as he could, and leaped over
the net into the waterfall. He swam and leaped quick as a flash of lightning, but not so quickly
but that the gods saw him, knew him through his disguise, and resolved that he should no longer
escape. They themselves divided into two bands. Thor waded down the river to the waterfall;
the other gods stood in a group below. Loki swam backwards and forwards between them. First
he thought he would dart out into the sea, and then that he would spring over the net back
again into the river. This last seemed the easiest way of escape, and with the greatest speed
he attempted it. Thor, however, was watching for him, and as soon as Loki leaped out of the
water he stretched out his hand and caught him while he was yet turning in the air. Loki wriggled
his slippery, slimy length through Thor's fingers; but the Thunderer grasped him tightly by
the tail, and, holding him in this manner in this hand, waded to the shore. There Father Odin
and the other gods met him; and, at Odin's first searching look, Loki was obliged to drop his
disguise, and, cowering and frightened, to assume his proper shape before the assembled lords.
One by one they turned their faces from him; for, in looking at him, they seemed to see over
again the death of Baldur the Beloved.

You were told that there were high rocks looking over the sea near Loki's house. One of these,
higher than the rest, had midway four projecting stones, and to these the gods resolved to
bind Loki so that he should never again be able to torment the inhabitants of Manheim or Asgard
by his evil-doings. Thor proposed to return to Asgard, to bring a chain with which to bind
the prisoner; but Odin assured him that he had no need to take such a journey. "Loki," he said,
"has already forged for himself a chain stronger than any you can make. While we have been
occupied in catching him, his two sons, Ali and Nari, transformed into wolves by their evil
passions, have fought with and destroyed each other. With their sinews we must make a chain
to bind their father, and from that he can never escape."

It was done as Asa Odin said. A rope was made of the dead wolves' sinews, and as soon as it
touched Loki's body it turned into bands of iron and bound him immovably to the rock. Secured
in this manner the gods left him.

But his punishment did not end here. A snake, whose fangs dropped poison, glided to the top
of the rock and leaned his head over to peer at Loki. The eyes of the two met and fixed each
other. The serpent could never move away afterwards; but every moment a burning drop from his
tongue fell down on Loki's shuddering face.

In all the world there was only one who pitied him. His kind wife ever afterwards stood beside
him and held a cup over his head to catch the poison. When the cup was full, she was obliged
to turn away to empty it, and the deadly drops fell again on Loki's face. He shuddered and
shrank from them, and the whole earth trembled. So will he lie bound till the Twilight of the
Gods be here. The Deaf Man was to see for the Blind Man, and the Blind Man was to hear for
the Deaf Man.

One day they went together to an entertainment where there was music and dancing. The Deaf
Man said: "The dancing is very good, but the music is not worth listening to"; and the Blind
Man said: "On the contrary, I think the music very good, but the dancing is not worth looking at."

After this they went together for a walk in the jungle, and there found a washerman's Donkey
that had strayed away from its owner, and a great big kettle (such as washermen boil clothes
in), which the Donkey was carrying with him.

The Deaf Man said to the Blind Man: "Brother, here are a Donkey and a washerman's great big
kettle, with nobody to own them! Let us take them with us--they may be useful to us some day."
"Very well," said the Blind Man; "we will take them with us." So the Blind Man and the Deaf
Man went on their way, taking the Donkey and the great big kettle with them. A little farther
on they came to an ant's nest, and the Deaf Man said to the Blind Man: "Here are a number of
very fine black ants, much larger than any I ever saw before. Let us take some of them home
to show our friends." "Very well," answered the Blind Man; "we will take them as a present
to our friends." So the Deaf Man took a silver snuff-box out of his pocket, and put four or
five of the finest black ants into it; which done, they continued their journey.

But before they had gone very far a terrible storm came on. It thundered and lightened and
rained and blew with such fury that it seemed as if the whole heavens' and earth were at war.
"Oh dear! oh dear!" cried the Deaf Man, "how dreadful this lightning is! Let us make haste
and get to some place of shelter." "I don't see that it's dreadful at all," answered the blind
Man; "but the thunder is very terrible; we had better certainly seek some place of shelter."

Now, not far off was a lofty building, which looked exactly like a fine temple. The Deaf Man
saw it, and he and the Blind Man resolved to spend the night there; and having reached the
place, they went in and shut the door, taking the Donkey and the great big kettle with them.
But this building, which they mistook for a temple was in truth no temple at all, but the house
of a very powerful Rakshas or ogre; and hardly had the Blind Man, the Deaf Man, and the Donkey
got inside and fastened the door, than the Rakshas, who had been out, returned home. To his
surprise, he found the door fastened and heard people moving about inside his house. "Ho! ho!"
cried he to himself, "some men have got in here, have they? I'll soon make mince-meat of them."
So he began to roar in a voice louder than the thunder, and to cry: "Let me into my house this
minute, you wretches; let me in, let me in, I say," and to kick the door and batter it with
his great fists. But though his voice was very powerful, his appearance was still more alarming,
insomuch that the Deaf Man, who was peeping at him through a chink in the wall, felt so frightened
that he did not know what to do. Let me in this instant or I'll kill you." All this time the
Deaf Man, who was watching the Rakshas, was shivering and shaking in a terrible fright, but
the Blind Man was very brave (because he couldn't see), and he called out again: "Oh, you're
a Rakshas, are you? Well, if you're Rakshas, I'm Bakshas; and Bakshas is as good as Rakshas."

"Bakshas!" roared the Rakshas. "Bakshas! Bakshas! What nonsense is this? There is no such creature
as a Bakshas!" "Go away," replied the Blind Man, "and don't dare to make any further disturbance,
lest I punish you with a vengeance; for know that I'm Bakshas, and Bakshas is Rakshas's father."
"My father?" answered the Rakshas. "Heavens and earth! Bakshas, and my father! I never heard
such an extraordinary thing in my life. You my father; and in there! I never knew my father
was called Bakshas!"

"Yes," replied the Blind Man; "go away instantly, I command you, for I am your father Bakshas."
"Very well," answered the Rakshas (for he began to get puzzled and frightened); "but if you
are my father, let me first see your face." (For he thought: "Perhaps they are deceiving me.")
The Blind Man and the Deaf Man didn't know what to do; but at last they opened the door a very
tiny chink and poked the Donkey's nose out. Pray let me see your body as well as head before
I go away." Then the Blind Man and the Deaf Man rolled the washerman's great big kettle with
a thundering noise past the chink in the door, and the Rakshas, who was watching attentively,
was very much surprised when he saw this great black thing rolling along the floor, and he
thought: "In truth, my father Bakshas has a very big body as well as a big head. He's big enough
to eat me up altogether. I'd better go away." But still he could not help being a little doubtful,
so he cried: "O Bakshas, father Bakshas! you have indeed got a very big head and a very big
body; but do, before I go away, let me hear you scream," for all Rakshas scream fearfully.
Then the cunning Deaf Man (who was getting less frightened) pulled the silver snuff-box out
of his pocket, and took the black ants out of it, and put one black ant in the Donkey's right
ear, and another black ant in the Donkey's left ear, and another and another. The ants pinched
the poor Donkey's ears dreadfully, and the Donkey was so hurt and frightened he began to bellow
as loud as he could: "Eh augh! eh augh! eh augh! augh! augh!" and at this terrible noise the
Rakshas fled away in a great fright, saying: "Enough, enough, father Bakshas! the sound of
your voice would make the most refractory obedient." And no sooner had he gone than the Deaf
Man took the ants out of the Donkey's ears, and he and the Blind Man spent the rest of the
night in peace and comfort.

Next morning the Deaf Man woke the Blind Man early, saying: "Awake, brother, awake: here we
are indeed in luck! The whole floor is covered with heaps of gold and silver and precious stones."
And so it was, for the Rakshas owned a vast amount of treasure, and the whole house was full
of it. "That is a good thing," said the Blind Man. "Show me where it is and I will help you
to collect it." So they collected as much treasure as possible and made four great bundles
of it. The Blind Man took one great bundle, the Deaf Man took another, and, putting the other
two great bundles on the Donkey, they started off to return home. But the Rakshas, whom they
had frightened away the night before, had not gone very far off, and was waiting to see what
his father Bakshas might look like by daylight. He saw the door of his house open and watched
attentively, when out walked--only a Blind Man, a Deaf Man, and a Donkey, who were all three
laden with large bundles of his treasure. The Blind Man carried one bundle, the Deaf Man carried
another bundle, and two bundles were on the Donkey.

The Rakshas was extremely angry, and immediately called six of his friends to help him kill
the Blind Man, the Deaf Man, and the Donkey, and recover the treasure.

The Deaf Man saw them coming (seven great Rakshas, with hair a yard long and tusks like an
elephant's), and was dreadfully frightened; but the Blind Man was very brave (because he couldn't
see), and said: "Brother, why do you lag behind in that way?" "Oh!" answered the Deaf Man,
"there are seven great Rakshas with tusks like an elephant's coming to kill us! What can we
do?" "Let us hide the treasure in the bushes," said the Blind Man; "and do you lead me to a
tree; then I will climb up first, and you shall climb up afterward, and so we shall be out
of their way." The Deaf Man thought this good advice; so he pushed the Donkey and the bundles
of treasure into the bushes, and led the Blind Man to a high soparee-tree that grew close by;
but he was a very cunning man, this Deaf Man, and instead of letting the Blind Man climb up
first and following him, he got up first and let the Blind Man clamber after, so that he was
farther out of harm's way than his friend.

When the Rakshas arrived at the place and saw them both perched out of reach in the soparee-tree,
he said to his friends: "Let us get on each other's shoulders; we shall then be high enough
to pull them down." So one Rakshas stooped down, and the second got on his shoulders, and the
third on his, and the fourth on his, and the fifth on his, and the sixth on his; and the seventh
and the last Rakshas (who had invited all the others) was just climbing up when the Deaf Man
(who was looking over the Blind Man's shoulder) got so frightened that in his alarm he caught
hold of his friend's arm, crying: "They're coming, they're coming!" The Blind Man was not in
a very secure position, and was sitting at his ease, not knowing how close the Rakshas were.
The consequence was, that when the Deaf Man gave him this unexpected push, he lost his balance
and tumbled down on to the neck of the seventh Rakshas, who was just then climbing up. The
Blind Man had no idea where he was, but thought he had got on to the branch of some other tree;
and, stretching out his hand for something to catch hold of, caught hold of the Rakshas's two
great ears, and pinched them very hard in his surprise and fright. The Rakshas couldn't think
what it was that had come tumbling down upon him; and the weight of the Blind Man upsetting
his balance, down he also fell to the ground, knocking down in their turn the sixth, fifth,
fourth, third, second, and first Rakshas, who all rolled one over another, and lay in a confused
heap at the foot of the tree together.

Meanwhile the Blind Man called out to his friend: "Where am I? What has happened? Where am
I? Where am I?" The Deaf Man (who was safe up in the tree) answered: "Well done, brother! never
fear! never fear! You're all right, only hold on tight. I'm coming down to help you." But he
had not the least intention of leaving his place of safety. However, he continued to call out:
"Never mind, brother; hold on as tight as you can. I'm coming, I'm coming," and the more he
called out, the harder the Blind Man pinched the Rakshas's ears, which he mistook for some
kind of palm branches.

The six other Rakshas, who had succeeded, after a good deal of kicking, in extricating themselves
from their unpleasant position, thought they had had quite enough of helping their friend,
and ran away as fast as they could; and the seventh, thinking from their going that the danger
must be greater than he imagined, and being, moreover, very much afraid of the mysterious creature
that sat on his shoulders, put his hands to the back of his ears and pushed off the Blind Man,
and then, (without staying to see who or what he was) followed his six companions as fast as
he could.

As soon as all the Rakshas were out of sight, the Deaf Man came down from the tree, and, picking
up the Blind Man, embraced him, saying: "I could not have done better myself. You have frightened
away all our enemies, but you see I came to help you as fast as possible." He then dragged
the Donkey and the bundles of treasure out of the bushes, gave the Blind Man one bundle to
carry, took the second himself, and put the remaining two on the Donkey, as before. This done,
the whole party set off to return home. But when they had got nearly out of the jungle the
Deaf Man said to the Blind Man: "We are now close to the village; but if we take all this treasure
home with us, we shall run great risk of being robbed. I think our best plan would be to divide
it equally; then you can take care of your half and I will take care of mine, and each one
can hide his share here in the jungle, or wherever pleases him best." "Very well," said the
Blind Man; "do you divide what we have in the bundles into two equal portions, keeping one
half yourself and giving me the other." The cunning Deaf Man, however, had no intention of
giving up half of the treasure to the Blind Man; so he first took his own bundle of treasure
and hid it in the bushes, and then he took the two bundles off the Donkey and hid them in the
bushes; and he took a good deal of treasure out of the Blind Man's bundle, which he also hid.
Then, taking the small quantity that remained, he divided it into two equal portions, and placing
half before the Blind Man and half in front of himself, said: "There, brother, is your share
to do what you please with." The Blind Man put out his hand, but when he felt what a very little
heap of treasure it was, he got very angry, and cried: "This is not fair--you are deceiving
me; you have kept almost all the treasure for yourself and only given me a very little." "Oh,
oh! how can you think so?" answered the Deaf Man; "but if you will not believe me, feel for
yourself. See, my heap of treasure is no larger than yours."

The Blind Man put out his hands again to feel how much his friend had kept; but in front of
the Deaf Man lay only a very small heap, no larger than what he had himself received. At this
he got very cross, and said: "Come, come, this won't do. You think you can cheat me in this
way because I am blind; but I'm not so stupid as all that, I carried a great bundle of treasure,
you carried a great bundle of treasure, and there were two great bundles on the Donkey. Do
you mean to pretend that all that made no more treasure than these two little heaps! No, indeed;
I know better than that." "Stuff and nonsense!" answered the Deaf Man. "Stuff or no stuff,"
continued the other, "you are trying to take me in, and I won't be taken in by you." "No, I'm
not," said the Deaf Man. "Yes, you are," said the Blind Man; and so they went on bickering,
scolding, growling, contradicting, until the Blind Man got so enraged that he gave the Deaf
Man a tremendous box on the ear.

So the Deaf Man could hear as well as see, and the Blind Man could see as well as hear! This
astonished them both so much that they became good friends at once. The Deaf Man confessed
to have hidden the bulk of the treasure, which he thereupon dragged forth from its place of
concealment, and having divided it equally, they went home and enjoyed themselves.

HARISARMAN

There was in a certain village, a certain Brahman named Harisarman. He was poor and foolish
and unhappy for want of employment, and he had very many children. He wandered about begging
with his family, and at last he reached a certain city, and entered the service of a rich householder
called Sthuladatta. His sons became keepers of Sthuladatta's cows and other property, and his
wife a servant to him, and he himself lived near his house, performing the duty of an attendant.
One day there was a feast on account of the marriage of the daughter of Sthuladatta, largely
attended by many friends of the bridegroom and merry-makers. Harisarman hoped that he would
be able to fill himself up to the throat with oil and flesh and other dainties, and get the
same for his family, in the house of his patron. While he was anxiously expecting to be fed,
no one thought of him.

Then he was distressed at getting nothing to eat, and he said to his wife at night: "It is
owing to my poverty and stupidity that I am treated with such disrespect here; so I will pretend
by means of an artifice to possess a knowledge of magic, so that I may become an object of
respect to this Sthuladatta; so, when you get an opportunity, tell him that I possess magical
knowledge." He said this to her, and after turning the matter over in his mind, while people
were asleep he took away from the house of Sthuladatta a horse on which his master's son-in-law
rode. He placed it in concealment at some distance, and in the morning the friends of the bridegroom
could not find the horse, though they searched in every direction. Then, while Sthuladatta
was distressed at the evil omen, and searching for the thieves who had carried off the horse,
the wife of Harisarman came and said to him: "My husband is a wise man, skilled in astrology
and magical sciences; he can get the horse back for you--why do you not ask him?" When Sthuladatta
heard that, he called Harisarman, who said, "Yesterday I was forgotten, but to-day, now the
horse is stolen, I am called to mind;" and Sthuladatta then propitiated the Brahman with these
words: "I forgot you, forgive me," and asked him to tell him who had taken away their horse.
Then Harisarman drew all kinds of pretended diagrams, and said: "The horse has been placed
by thieves on the boundary line south from this place. It is concealed there, and before it
is carried off to a distance, as it will be at close of day, go quickly and bring it." When
they heard that, many men ran and brought the horse quickly, praising the discernment of Harisarman.
Then Harisarman was honored by all men as a sage, and dwelt there in happiness, honored by
Sthuladatta.

Now, as days went on, much treasure, both of gold and jewels, had been stolen by a thief from
the palace of the King. As the thief was not known, the King quickly summoned Harisarman on
account of his reputation for knowledge of magic. And he, when summoned, tried to gain time,
and said: "I will tell you to-morrow," and then he was placed in a chamber by the King and
carefully guarded. And he was sad because he had pretended to have knowledge. Now, in that
palace there was a maid named Jihva (which means Tongue), who, with the assistance of her brother,
had stolen that treasure from the interior of the palace. She, being alarmed at Harisarman's
knowledge, went at night and applied her ear to the door of that chamber in order to find out
what he was about. And Harisarman, who was alone inside, was at that very moment blaming his
own tongue, that had made a vain assumption of knowledge. He said: "Oh, tongue, what is this
that you have done through your greediness? Wicked one, you will soon receive punishment in
full." When Jihva heard this, she thought, in her terror, that she had been discovered by this
wise man, and she managed to get in where he was, and, falling at his feet, she said to the
supposed wizard: "Brahman, here I am, that Jihva whom you have discovered to be the thief of
the treasure, and after I took it I buried it in the earth in a garden behind the palace, under
a pomegranate tree. So spare me, and receive the small quantity of gold which is in my possession."

When Harisarman heard that, he said to her proudly: "Depart, I know all this; I know the past,
present, and future, but I will not denounce you, a miserable creature that has implored my
protection. But whatever gold is in your possession you must give back to me." When he said
this to the maid, she consented, and departed quickly. But Harisarman reflected in his astonishment:
"Fate brings about, as if in sport, things impossible; for, when calamity was so near, who
would have thought chance would have brought us success? While I was blaming my jihva, the
thief Jihva suddenly flung herself at my feet. Secret crimes manifest themselves by means of
fear." Thus thinking, he passed the night happily in the chamber. And in the morning he brought
the King, by some skilful parade of pretended knowledge, into the garden and led him up to
the treasure, which was buried under the pomegranate tree, and said the thief had escaped with
a part of it. Then the King was pleased, and gave him the revenue of many villages.

But the minister, named Devajnanin, whispered in the King's ear: "How can a man possess such
knowledge unattainable by men without having studied the books of magic? You may be certain
that this is a specimen of the way he makes a dishonest livelihood, by having a secret intelligence
with thieves. It will be much better to test him by some new artifice." Then the King of his
own accord brought a covered pitcher into which he had thrown a frog, and said to Harisarman:
"Brahman, if you can guess what there is in this pitcher, I will do you great honor to-day."
When the Brahman Harisarman heard that, he thought that his last hour had come, and he called
to mind the pet name of "Froggie," which his father had given him in his childhood in sport;
and, impelled by luck, he called to himself by his pet name, lamenting his hard fate, and suddenly
called out: "This is a fine pitcher for you, Froggie; it will soon become the swift destroyer
of your helpless self." The people there, when they heard him say that, raised a shout of applause,
because his speech chimed in so well with the object presented to him, and murmured: "Ah! a
great sage; he knows even about the frog!" Then the King, thinking that this was all due to
knowledge of divination, was highly delighted, and gave Harisarman the revenue of more villages,
with gold, an umbrella, and state carriages of all kinds. So Harisarman prospered in the world.
The vizier promised to do his best, though he felt almost certain of failure.

MUCHIE LAL

ADAPTED BY M. FRERE

Once upon a time there were a Rajah and Ranee who had no children. Long had they wished and
prayed that the gods would send them a son, but it was all in vain--their prayers were not
granted. One day a number of fish were brought into the royal kitchen to be cooked for the
Rajah's dinner, and amongst them was one little fish that was not dead, but all the rest were
dead. One of the palace maid-servants, seeing this, took the little fish and put him in a basin
of water. Shortly afterward the Ranee saw him, and thinking him very pretty, kept him as a
pet; and because she had no children she lavished all her affection on the fish and loved him
as a son; and the people called him Muchie Rajah (the Fish Prince).

In a little while Muchie Rajah had grown too long to live in the small basin, so they put him
into a larger one, and then (when he grew too long for that) into a big tub. In time, however,
Muchie Rajah became too large for even the big tub to hold him; so the Ranee had a tank made
for him, in which he lived very happily, and twice a day she fed him with boiled rice. Now,
though the people fancied Muchie Rajah was only a fish, this was not the case. He was, in truth,
a young Rajah who had angered the gods, and been by them turned into a fish and thrown into
the river as a punishment.

One morning, when the Ranee brought him his daily meal of boiled rice, Muchie Rajah called
out to her and said, "Queen Mother, Queen Mother, I am so lonely here all by myself! Cannot
you get me a wife?" The Ranee promised to try, and sent messengers to all the people she knew,
to ask if they would allow one of their children to marry her son, the Fish Prince. But they
all answered: "We cannot give one of our dear little daughters to be devoured by a great fish,
even though he is the Muchie Rajah and so high in your Majesty's favor."

At news of this the Ranee did not know what to do. She was so foolishly fond of Muchie Rajah,
however, that she resolved to get him a wife at any cost. Again she sent out messengers, but
this time she gave them a great bag containing a lac of gold mohurs, and said to them: "Go
into every land until you find a wife for my Muchie Rajah, and to whoever will give you a child
to be the Muchie Ranee you shall give this bag of gold mohurs." The messengers started on their
search, but for some time they were unsuccessful; not even the beggars were to be tempted to
sell their children, fearing the great fish would devour them. At last one day the messengers
came to a village where there lived a Fakeer, who had lost his first wife and married again.
His first wife had had one little daughter, and his second wife also had a daughter. As it
happened, the Fakeer's second wife hated her little stepdaughter, always gave her the hardest
work to do and the least food to eat, and tried by every means in her power to get her out
of the way, in order that the child might not rival her own daughter. When she heard of the
errand on which the messengers had come, she sent for them when the Fakeer was out, and said
to them: "Give me the bag of gold mohurs, and you shall take my little daughter to marry the
Muchie Rajah." ("For," she thought to herself, "the great fish will certainly eat the girl,
and she will thus trouble us no more.") Then, turning to her stepdaughter, she said: "Go down
to the river and wash your saree, that you may be fit to go with these people, who will take
you to the Ranee's court." At these words the poor girl went down to the river very sorrowful,
for she saw no hope of escape, as her father was from home. As she knelt by the river-side,
washing her saree and crying bitterly, some of her tears fell into the hole of an old Seven-headed
Cobra, who lived on the river-bank. This Cobra was a very wise animal, and seeing the maiden,
he put his head out of his hole, and said to her: "Little girl, why do you cry?" "Oh, sir,"
she answered, "I am very unhappy; for my father is from home, and my stepmother has sold me
to the Ranee's people to be the wife of the Muchie Rajah, that great fish, and I know he will
eat me up." "Do not be afraid, my daughter," said the Cobra; "but take with you these three
stones and tie them up in the corner of your saree;" and so saying, he gave her three little
round pebbles. "The Muchie Rajah, whose wife you are to be, is not really a fish, but a Rajah
who has been enchanted. Your home will be a little room which the Ranee has had built in the
tank wall. When you are taken there, wait and be sure you don't go to sleep, or the Muchie
Rajah will certainly come and eat you up. But as you hear him coming rushing through the water,
be prepared, and as soon as you see him, throw this first stone at him; he will then sink to
the bottom of the tank. The second time he comes, throw the second stone, when the same thing
will happen. The third time he comes, throw this third stone, and he will immediately resume
his human shape." So saying, the old Cobra dived down again into his hole. The Fakeer's daughter
took the stones and determined to do as the Cobra had told her, though she hardly believed
it would have the desired effect.

When she reached the palace the Ranee spoke kindly to her, and said to the messengers: "You
have done your errand well; this is a dear little girl." Then she ordered that she should be
let down the side of the tank in a basket to a little room which had been prepared for her.
When the Fakeer's daughter got there, she thought she had never seen such a pretty place in
her life (for the Ranee had caused the little room to be very nicely decorated for the wife
of her favorite); and she would have felt very happy away from her cruel stepmother and all
the hard work she had been made to do, had it not been for the dark water that lay black and
unfathomable below the door and the fear of the terrible Muchie Rajah.

After waiting some time she heard a rushing sound, and little waves came dashing against the
threshold; faster they came and faster, and the noise got louder and louder, until she saw
a great fish's head above the water--Muchie Rajah was coming toward her open-mouthed. The Fakeer's
daughter seized one of the stones that the Cobra had given her and threw it at him, and down
he sank to the bottom of the tank; a second time he rose and came toward her, and she threw
the second stone at him, and he again sank down; a third time he came more fiercely than before,
when, seizing a third stone, she threw it with all her force. No sooner did it touch him than
the spell was broken, and there, instead of a fish, stood a handsome young Prince. The poor
little Fakeer's daughter was so startled that she began to cry. But the Prince said to her:
"Pretty maiden, do not be frightened. You have rescued me from a horrible thraldom, and I can
never thank you enough; but if you will be the Muchie Ranee, we will be married to-morrow."
Then he sat down on the doorstep, thinking over his strange fate and watching for the dawn.

Next morning early several inquisitive people came to see if the Muchie Rajah had eaten up
his poor little wife, as they feared he would; what was their astonishment, on looking over
the tank wall, to see, not the Muchie Rajah, but a magnificent Prince! The news soon spread
to the palace. Down came the Rajah, down came the Ranee, down came all their attendants, and
dragged Muchie Rajah and the Fakeer's daughter up the side of the tank in a basket; and when
they heard their story there were great and unparalleled rejoicings. The Ranee said, "So I
have indeed found a son at last!" And the people were so delighted, so happy and so proud of
the new Prince and Princess, that they covered all their path with damask from the tank to
the palace, and cried to their fellows, "Come and see our new Prince and Princess! Were ever
any so divinely beautiful? Come see a right royal couple,--a pair of mortals like the gods!"
And when they reached the palace the prince was married to the Fakeer's daughter.

There they lived very happily for some time. The Muchie Ranee's stepmother, hearing what had
happened, came often to see her stepdaughter, and pretended to be delighted at her good fortune;
and the Ranee was so good that she quite forgave all her stepmother's former cruelty, and always
received her very kindly. At last, one day, the Muchie Ranee said to her husband, "It is a
weary while since I saw my father. If you will give me leave, I should much like to visit my
native village and see him again." "Very well," he replied, "you may go. But do not stay away
long; for there can be no happiness for me till you return." So she went, and her father was
delighted to see her; but her stepmother, though she pretended to be very kind, was in reality
only glad to think she had got the Ranee into her power, and determined, if possible, never
to allow her to return to the palace again. One day, therefore, she said to her own daughter,
"It is hard that your stepsister should have become Ranee of all the land instead of being
eaten up by the great fish, while we gained no more than a lac of gold mohurs. Do now as I
bid you, that you may become Ranee in her stead." She then went on to instruct her that she
must invite the Ranee down to the river-bank, and there beg her to let her try on her jewels,
and while putting them on give her a push and drown her in the river.

The girl consented, and standing by the river-bank, said to her stepsister, "Sister, may I
try on your jewels?--how pretty they are!" "Yes," said the Ranee, "and we shall be able to
see in the river how they look." So, undoing her necklaces, she clasped them round the other's
neck. But while she was doing so her stepsister gave her a push, and she fell backward into
the water. The girl watched to see that the body did not rise, and then, running back, said
to her mother, "Mother, here are all the jewels, and she will trouble us no more." But it happened
that just when her stepsister pushed the Ranee into the river her old friend the Seven-headed
Cobra chanced to be swimming across it, and seeing the little Ranee likely to be drowned, he
carried her on his back until he reached his hole, into which he took her safely. Now this
hole, in which the Cobra and his wife and all his little ones lived, had two entrances,--the
one under the water and leading to the river, and the other above water, leading out into the
open fields. To this upper end of his hole the Cobra took the Muchie Ranee, where he and his
wife took care of her; and there she lived with them for some time. Meanwhile, the wicked Fakeer's
wife, having dressed up her own daughter in all the Ranee's jewels, took her to the palace,
and said to the Muchie Rajah, "See, I have brought your wife, my dear daughter, back safe and
well." The Rajah looked at her, and thought, "This does not look like my wife." However, the
room was dark and the girl was cleverly disguised, and he thought he might be mistaken. Next
day he said again: "My wife must be sadly changed or this cannot be she, for she was always
bright and cheerful. She had pretty loving ways and merry words, while this woman never opens
her lips." Still, he did not like to seem to mistrust his wife, and comforted himself by saying,
"Perhaps she is tired with the long journey." On the third day, however, he could bear the
uncertainty no longer, and tearing off her jewels, saw, not the face of his own little wife,
but another woman. Then he was very angry and turned her out of doors, saying, "Begone; since
you are but the wretched tool of others, I spare your life." But of the Fakeer's wife he said
to his guards, "Fetch that woman here instantly; for unless she can tell me where my wife is,
I will have her hanged." It chanced, however, that the Fakeer's wife had heard of the Muchie
Rajah having turned her daughter out of doors; so, fearing his anger, she hid herself, and
was not to be found.

Meantime, the Muchie Ranee, not knowing how to get home, continued to live in the great Seven-headed
Cobra's hole, and he and his wife and all his family were very kind to her, and loved her as
if she had been one of them; and there her little son was born, and she called him Muchie Lal,
after the Muchie Rajah, his father. Muchie Lal was a lovely child, merry and brave, and his
playmates all day long were the young Cobras. When he was about three years old a bangle-seller
came by that way, and the Muchie Ranee bought some bangles from him and put them on her boy's
wrists and ankles; but by the next day, in playing, he had broke them all. Then, seeing the
bangle-seller, the Ranee called him again and bought some more, and so on every day until the
bangle-seller got quite rich from selling so many bangles for the Muchie Lal; for the Cobra's
hole was full of treasure, and he gave the Muchie Ranee as much money to spend every day as
she liked. There was nothing she wished for he did not give her, only he would not let her
try to get home to her husband, which she wished more than all. When she asked him he would
say: "No, I will not let you go. If your husband comes here and fetches you, it is well; but
I will not allow you to wander in search of him through the land alone."

And so she was obliged to stay where she was.

All this time the poor Muchie Rajah was hunting in every part of the country for his wife,
but he could learn no tidings of her. For grief and sorrow at losing her he had gone almost
distracted, and did nothing but wander from place to place, crying, "She is gone! she is gone!"
Then, when he had long inquired without avail of all the people in her native village about
her, he one day met a bangle-seller and said to him, "Whence do you come?" The bangle-seller
answered, "I have just been selling bangles to some people who live in a Cobra's hole in the
river-bank." "People! What people?" asked the Rajah. "Why," answered the bangle-seller, "a
woman and a child; the child is the most beautiful I ever saw. He is about three years old,
and of course, running about, is always breaking his bangles and his mother buys him new ones
every day." "Do you know what the child's name is?" said the Rajah. "Yes," answered the bangle-seller
carelessly, "for the lady always calls him her Muchie Lal." "Ah," thought the Muchie Rajah,
"this must be my wife." Then he said to him again, "Good bangle-seller, I would see these strange
people of whom you speak; cannot you take me there?" "Not to-night," replied the bangle-seller;
"daylight has gone, and we should only frighten them; but I shall be going there again to-morrow,
and then you may come too. Meanwhile, come and rest at my house for the night, for you look
faint and weary." The Rajah consented. Next morning, however, very early, he woke the bangle-seller,
saying, "Pray let us go now and see the people you spoke about yesterday." "Stay," said the
bangle-seller; "it is much too early. I never go till after breakfast." So the Rajah had to
wait till the bangle-seller was ready to go. At last they started off, and when they reached
the Cobra's hole the first thing the Rajah saw was a fine little boy playing with the young Cobras.

As the bangle-seller came along, jingling his bangles, a gentle voice from inside the hole
called out, "Come here, my Muchie Lal, and try on your bangles." Then the Muchie Rajah, kneeling
down at the mouth of the hole, said, "Oh, lady, show your beautiful face to me." At the sound
of his voice the Ranee ran out, crying, "Husband, husband! have you found me again?" And she
told him how her sister had tried to drown her, and how the good Cobra had saved her life and
taken care of her and her child. Then he said, "And will you now come home with me?" And she
told him how the Cobra would never let her go, and said, "I will first tell him of your coming;
for he has been a father to me." So she called out, "Father Cobra, father Cobra, my husband
has come to fetch me; will you let me go?" "Yes," he said, "if your husband has come to fetch
you, you may go." And his wife said, "Farewell, dear lady, we are loath to lose you, for we
have loved you as a daughter." And all the little Cobras were very sorrowful to think that
they must lose their playfellow, the young Prince. Then the Cobra gave the Muchie Rajah and
the Muchie Ranee and Muchie Lal all the most costly gifts he could find in his treasure-house;
and so they went home, where they lived very happy ever after. One day the Ranee his mother,
said to him, "You can hunt wherever you like on these three sides; but you must never go to
the fourth side." This she said because she knew if he went on the fourth side he would hear
of the beautiful Princess Labam, and that then he would leave his father and mother and seek
for the Princess.

The young Prince listened to his mother, and obeyed her for some time; but one day, when he
was hunting on the three sides where he was allowed to go, he remembered what she had said
to him about the fourth side, and he determined to go and see why she had forbidden him to
hunt on that side. When he got there, he found himself in a jungle, and nothing in the jungle
but a quantity of parrots, who lived in it. The young Rajah shot at some of them, and at once
they all flew away up to the sky. All, that is, but one, and this was their Rajah, who was
called Hiraman parrot.

When Hiraman parrot found himself left alone, he called out to the other parrots, "Don't fly
away and leave me alone when the Rajah's son shoots. If you desert me like this, I will tell
the Princess Labam."

Then the parrots all flew back to their Rajah, chattering. The Prince was greatly surprised,
and said, "Why, these birds can talk!" Then he said to the parrots, "Who is the Princess Labam?
Where does she live?" But the parrots would not tell him where she lived. "You can never get
to the Princess Labam's country." That is all they would say.

The Prince grew very sad when they would not tell him anything more; and he threw his gun away
and went home. When he got home, he would not speak or eat, but lay on his bed for four or
five days, and seemed very ill.

At last he told his father and mother that he wanted to go and see the Princess Labam. "I must
go," he said; "I must see what she is like. Tell me where her country is."

"We do not know where it is," answered his father and mother.

"Then I must go and look for it," said the Prince.

"No, no," they said, "you must not leave us. You are our only son. Stay with us. You will never
find the Princess Labam."

"I must try and find her," said the Prince. "Perhaps God will show me the way. If I live and
I find her, I will come back to you; but perhaps I shall die, and then I shall never see you
again. Still I must go."

So they had to let him go, though they cried very much at parting with him. His father gave
him fine clothes to wear, and a fine horse. And he took his gun, and his bow and arrows, and
a great many other weapons; "for," he said, "I may want them." His father, too, gave him plenty
of rupees.

Then he himself got his horse all ready for the journey, and he said good-by to his father
and mother; and his mother took her handkerchief and wrapped some sweetmeats in it, and gave
it to her son. "My child," she said to him, "when you are hungry eat some of these sweetmeats."

He then set out on his journey, and rode on and on till he came to a jungle in which were a
tank and shady trees. He bathed himself and his horse in the tank, and then sat down under
a tree. "Now," he said to himself, "I will eat some of the sweetmeats my mother gave me, and
I will drink some water, and then I will continue my journey." He opened his handkerchief and
took out a sweetmeat. He found an ant in it. He took out another. There was an ant in that
one too. So he laid the two sweetmeats on the ground, and he took out another, and another,
and another, until he had taken them all out; but in each he found an ant. "Never mind," he
said, "I won't eat the sweetmeats; the ants shall eat them." Then the Ant-Rajah came and stood
before him and said, "You have been good to us. If ever you are in trouble, think of me and
we will come to you."

The Rajah's son thanked him, mounted his horse and continued his journey. He rode on and on
until he came to another jungle, and there he saw a tiger who had a thorn in his foot, and
was roaring loudly from the pain.

"Why do you roar like that?" said the young Rajah. "What is the matter with you?"

"I have had a thorn in my foot for twelve years," answered the tiger, "and it hurts me so;
that is why I roar."

"Well," said the Rajah's son, "I will take it out for you. But perhaps, as you are a tiger,
when I have made you well, you will eat me?"

"Oh no," said the tiger, "I won't eat you. Do make me well."

Then the Prince took a little knife from his pocket and cut the thorn out of the tiger's foot;
but when he cut, the tiger roared louder than ever--so loud that his wife heard him in the
next jungle, and came bounding along to see what was the matter. The tiger saw her coming,
and hid the Prince in the jungle, so that she should not see him.

"What man hurt you that you roared so loud?" said the wife.

"No one hurt me," answered the husband; "but a Rajah's son came and took the thorn out of my foot."

"Where is he? Show him to me," said his wife.

"If you promise not to kill him, I will call him," said the tiger.

"I won't kill him; only let me see him," answered his wife.

Then the tiger called the Rajah's son, and when he came the tiger and his wife made him a great
many salaams. Then they gave him a good dinner, and he stayed with them for three days. Every
day he looked at the tiger's foot, and the third day it was quite healed. Then he said good-by
to the tigers, and the tiger said to him, "If ever you are in trouble, think of me, and we
will come to you."

The Rajah's son rode on and on till he came to a third jungle. Here he found four fakeers whose
teacher and master had died, and had left four things,--a bed, which carried whoever sat on
it whithersoever he wished to go; a bag, that gave its owner whatever he wanted, jewels, food
or clothes; a stone bowl that gave its owner as much water as he wanted, no matter how far
he might be from a tank; and a stick and rope, to which its owner had only to say, if any one
came to make war on him, "Stick, beat as many men and soldiers as are here," and the stick
would beat them and the rope would tie them up.

The four fakeers were quarreling over these four things. One said, "I want this;" another said,
"You cannot have it, for I want it;" and so on.

The Rajah's son said to them, "Do not quarrel for these things. I will shoot four arrows in
four different directions. Whichever of you gets to my first arrow, shall have the first thing--the
bed. Whosoever gets to the second arrow, shall have the second thing--the bag. He who gets
to the third arrow, shall have the third thing--the bowl. And he who gets to the fourth arrow,
shall have the last things--the stick and rope." To this they agreed. And the Prince shot off
his first arrow. Away raced the fakeers to get it. When they brought it back to him he shot
off the second, and when they had found and brought it to him he shot off his third, and when
they had brought him the third he shot off the fourth.

While they were away looking for the fourth arrow the Rajah's son let his horse loose in the
jungle and sat on the bed, taking the bowl, the stick and rope, and the bag with him. Then
he said, "Bed, I wish to go to the Princess Labam's country." The little bed instantly rose
up into the air and began to fly, and it flew and flew till it came to the Princess Labam's
country, where it settled on the ground. The Rajah's son asked some men he saw, "Whose country
is this?"

"The Princess Labam's country," they answered. Then the Prince went on till he came to a house
where he saw an old woman.

"Who are you?" she said. "Where do you come from?"

"I come from a far country," he said; "do let me stay with you to-night."

"No," she answered, "I cannot let you stay with me; for our King has ordered that men from
other countries may not stay in his country. You cannot stay in my house."

"You are my aunty," said the Prince; "let me remain with you for this one night. You see it
is evening, and if I go into the jungle, then the wild beasts will eat me."

"Well," said that old woman, "you may stay here to-night; but to-morrow morning you must go
away, for if the King hears you have passed the night in my house, he will have me seized and
put into prison."

Then she took him into her house, and the Rajah's son was very glad. The old woman began preparing
dinner, but he stopped her. "Aunty," he said, "I will give you food." He put his hand into
his bag, saying, "Bag, I want some dinner," and the bag gave him instantly a delicious dinner,
served up on two gold plates. The old woman and the Rajah's son then dined together.

When they had finished eating, the old woman said, "Now I will fetch some water."

"Don't go," said the Prince. "You shall have plenty of water directly." So he took his bowl
and said to it, "Bowl, I want some water," and then it filled with water. When it was full,
the Prince cried out, "Stop, bowl!" and the bowl stopped filling. "See, aunty," he said, "with
this bowl I can always get as much water as I want."

By this time night had come. "Aunty," said the Rajah's son, "why don't you light a lamp?"

"There is no need," she said. "Our king has forbidden the people in his country to light any
lamps; for, as soon as it is dark, his daughter, the Princess Labam, comes and sits on her
roof, and she shines so that she lights up all the country and our houses, and we can see to
do our work as if it were day."

When it was quite black night the Princess got up. She dressed herself in her rich clothes
and jewels, and rolled up her hair, and across her head she put a band of diamonds and pearls.
Then she shone like the moon and her beauty made night day. She came out of her room and sat
on the roof of her palace. In the daytime she never came out of her house; she only came out
at night. All the people in her father's country then went about their work and finished it.

The Rajah's son, watched the Princess quietly, and was very happy. He said to himself, "How
lovely she is!"

At midnight, when everybody had gone to bed, the Princess came down from her roof and went
to her room; and when she was in bed and asleep, the Rajah's son got up softly and sat on his
bed. "Bed," he said to it, "I want to go to the Princess Labam's bed-room." So the little bed
carried him to the room where she lay fast asleep.

The young Rajah took his bag and said, "I want a great deal of betel-leaf," and it at once
gave him quantities of betel-leaf. This he laid near the Princess's bed, and then his little
bed carried him back to the old woman's house.

Next morning all the Princess's servants found the betel-leaf, and began to eat it. "Where
did you get all that betel-leaf?" asked the Princess.

"We found it near your bed," answered the servants. Nobody knew the Prince had come in the
night and put it all there.

In the morning the old woman came to the Rajah's son. "Now it is morning," she said, "and you
must go; for if the King finds out all I have done for you, he will seize me."

"I am ill to-day, dear aunty," said the Prince; "do let me stay till to-morrow morning."

"Good," said the old woman. So he stayed, and they took their dinner out of the bag, and the
bowl gave them water.

When night came the Princess got up and sat on her roof, and at twelve o'clock, when every
one was in bed, she went to her bed-room, and was soon fast asleep. Then the Rajah's son sat
on his bed, and it carried him to the Princess. He took his bag and said, "Bag, I want a most
lovely shawl." It gave him a splendid shawl, and he spread it over the Princess as she lay
asleep. Then he went back to the old woman's house and slept till morning.

In the morning, when the Princess saw the shawl she was delighted. "See, mother," she said;
"Khuda must have given me this shawl, it is so beautiful." Her mother was very glad too.

"Yes, my child," she said; "Khuda must have given you this splendid shawl."

When it was morning the old woman said to the Rajah's son, "Now you must really go."

"Aunty," he answered, "I am not well enough yet. Let me stay a few days longer. I will remain
hidden in your house, so that no one may see me." So the old woman let him stay.

When it was black night, the Princess put on her lovely clothes and jewels and sat on her roof.
At midnight she went to her room and went to sleep. Then the Rajah's son sat on his bed and
flew to her bed-room. There he said to his bag, "Bag, I want a very, very beautiful ring."
The bag gave him a glorious ring. Then he took the Princess Labam's hand gently to put on the
ring, and she started up very much frightened.

"Who are you?" she said to the Prince. "Where do you come from? Why do you come to my room?"

"Do not be afraid, Princess," he said; "I am no thief. I am a great Rajah's son. Hiraman parrot,
who lives in the jungle where I went to hunt, told me your name, and then I left my father
and mother and came to see you."

"Well," said the Princess, "as you are the son of such a great Rajah, I will not have you killed,
and I will tell my father and mother that I wish to marry you."

The Prince then returned to the old woman's house; and when morning came the Princess said
to her mother, "The son of a great Rajah has come to this country, and I wish to marry him."
Her mother told this to the King.

"Good," said the King; "but if this Rajah's son wishes to marry my daughter, he must first
do whatever I bid him. If he fails I will kill him. I will give him eighty pounds weight of
mustard seed, and out of this he must crush the oil in one day. If he cannot do this he shall die."

In the morning the Rajah's son told the old woman that he intended to marry the Princess. "Oh,"
said the old woman, "go away from this country, and do not think of marrying her. A great many
Rajahs and Rajahs' sons have come here to marry her, and her father has had them all killed.
He says whoever wishes to marry his daughter must first do whatever he bids him. If he can,
then he shall marry the Princess; if he cannot, the King will have him killed. But no one can
do the things the King tells him to do; so all the Rajahs and Rajahs' sons who have tried have
been put to death. You will be killed too, if you try. Do go away." But the Prince would not
listen to anything she said.

The King sent for the Prince to the old woman's house, and his servants brought the Rajah's
son to the King's court-house to the King. There the King gave him eighty pounds of mustard
seed, and told him to crush all the oil out of it that day, and bring it next morning to him
to the court-house. "Whoever wishes to marry my daughter," he said to the Prince, "must first
do all I tell him. If he cannot, then I have him killed. So if you cannot crush all the oil
out of this mustard seed you will die."

The Prince was very sorry when he heard this. "How can I crush the oil out of all this mustard
seed in one day?" he said to himself; "and if I do not, the King will kill me." He took the
mustard seed to the old woman's house, and did not know what to do. At last he remembered the
Ant-Rajah, and the moment he did so, the Ant-Rajah and his ants came to him. "Why do you look
so sad?" said the Ant-Rajah.

The Prince showed him the mustard seed, and said to him, "How can I crush the oil out of all
this mustard seed in one day? And if I do not take the oil to the King to-morrow morning, he
will kill me."

"Be happy," said the Ant-Rajah; "lie down and sleep; we will crush all the oil out for you
during the day, and to-morrow morning you shall take it to the King." The Rajah's son lay down
and slept, and the ants crushed out the oil for him. The Prince was very glad when he saw the oil.

The next morning he took it to the court-house to the King. But the King said, "You cannot
yet marry my daughter. If you wish to do so, you must fight with my two demons, and kill them."
The King a long time ago had caught two demons, and then, as he did not know what to do with
them, he had shut them up in a cage. He was afraid to let them loose for fear they would eat
up all the people in his country; and he did not know how to kill them. So all the Rajahs and
Rajahs' sons who wanted to marry the Princess Labam had to fight with these demons; "for,"
said the King to himself, "perhaps the demons may be killed, and then I shall be rid of them."

When he heard of the demons the Rajah's son was very sad. "What can I do?" he said to himself.
"How can I fight with these two demons?" Then he thought of his tiger: and the tiger and his
wife came to him and said, "Why are you so sad?" The Rajah's son answered, "The King has ordered
me to fight with his two demons and kill them. How can I do this?" "Do not be frightened,"
said the tiger. "Be happy. I and my wife will fight with them for you."

Then the Rajah's son took out of his bag two splendid coats. They were all gold and silver,
and covered with pearls and diamonds. These he put on the tigers to make them beautiful, and
he took them to the King, and said to him, "May these tigers fight your demons for me?" "Yes,"
said the King, who did not care in the least who killed his demons, provided they were killed.
"Then call your demons," said the Rajah's son, "and these tigers will fight them." The King
did so, and the tigers and the demons fought and fought until the tigers had killed the demons.

"That is good," said the King. "But you must do something else before I give you my daughter.
Up in the sky I have a kettle-drum. You must go and beat it. If you cannot do this, I will
kill you."

The Rajah's son thought of his little bed; so he went to the old woman's house and sat on his
bed. "Little bed," he said, "up in the sky is the King's kettle-drum. I want to go to it."
The bed flew up with him, and the Rajah's son beat the drum, and the King heard him. Still,
when he came down, the King would not give him his daughter. "You have," he said to the Prince,
"done the three things I told you to do; but you must do one thing more." "If I can, I will,"
said the Rajah's son.

Then the King showed him the trunk of a tree that was lying near his court-house. It was a
very, very thick trunk. He gave the Prince a wax hatchet, and said, "To-morrow morning you
must cut this trunk in two with this wax hatchet."

The Rajah's son went back to the old woman's house. He was very sad, and thought that now the
Rajah would certainly kill him. "I had his oil crushed out by the ants," he said to himself.
"I had his demons killed by the tigers. My bed helped to beat this kettle-drum. But now what
can I do? How can I cut that thick tree-trunk in two with a wax hatchet?"

At night he went on his bed to see the Princess. "To-morrow," he said to her, "your father
will kill me." "Why?" asked the Princess.

"He has told me to cut a thick tree-trunk in two with a wax hatchet. How can I ever do that?"
said the Rajah's son. "Do not be afraid," said the Princess; "do as I bid you, and you will
cut it in two quite easily."

Then she pulled out a hair from her head and gave it to the Prince. "To-morrow," she said,
"when no one is near you, you must say to the tree-trunk, 'The Princess Labam commands you
to let yourself be cut in two by this hair.' Then stretch the hair down the edge of the wax
hatchet's blade."

The Prince next day did exactly as the Princess had told him; and the minute the hair that
was stretched down the edge of the hatchet blade touched the tree-trunk it split into two pieces.

The King said, "Now you can marry my daughter." Then the wedding took place. All the Rajahs
and Kings of the countries round were asked to come to it, and there were great rejoicings.
After a few days the bridegroom said to his bride "Let us go to my father's country." The Princess
Labam's father gave them a quantity of camels and horses and rupees and servants; and they
traveled in great state to the distant country, where they lived happily.

The prince always kept his bag, bowl, bed, stick and rope; only, as no one ever came to make
war on him, he never needed to use the stick or rope.

The jellyfish was then summoned to the King's presence, and was told by his Majesty what was
required of him. "Now I must flatter the creature and try to entice him to come back with me
to the palace, and my part will be done!"

So the jellyfish slowly walked towards the pine-tree.

"I am very glad to see you," said the monkey.

"Is it so beautiful as all that?" asked the monkey in astonishment.

"Keep very still, Mr. Monkey," said the jellyfish.

Thus they went along, the jellyfish skimming through the waves with the monkey sitting on his back.

No sooner had the jellyfish reached the shore than the sly monkey landed, and getting up into
the pine-tree where the jellyfish had first seen him, he cut several capers amongst the branches
with joy at being safe home again, and then looking down at the jellyfish said:

"So many thanks for all the trouble you have taken! Please present my compliments to the Dragon
King on your return!"

"Of course, I won't give you my liver, but come and get it if you can!" added the monkey mockingly
from the tree. He quaked all over as he told his story.

THE OLD MAN AND THE DEVILS

A long time ago there was an old man who had a big lump on the right side of his face. One
day he went into the mountain to cut wood, when the rain began to pour and the wind to blow
so very hard that, finding it impossible to return home, and filled with fear, he took refuge
in the hollow of an old tree. While sitting there doubled up and unable to sleep, he heard
the confused sound of many voices in the distance gradually approaching to where he was. He
said to himself: "How strange! I thought I was all alone in the mountain, but I hear the voices
of many people." So, taking courage, he peeped out, and saw a great crowd of strange-looking
beings. Some were red, and dressed in green clothes; others were black, and dressed in red
clothes; some had only one eye; others had no mouth; indeed, it is quite impossible to describe
their varied and strange looks. They kindled a fire, so that it became as light as day. They
sat down in two cross-rows, and began to drink wine and make merry just like human beings.
They passed the wine cup around so often that many of them soon drank too much. One of the
young devils got up and began to sing a merry song and to dance; so also many others; some
danced well, others badly. One said: "We have had uncommon fun to-night, but I would like to
see something new."

Then the old man, losing all fear, thought he would like to dance, and saying, "Let come what
will, if I die for it, I will have a dance, too," crept out of the hollow tree and, with his
cap slipped over his nose and his ax sticking in his belt, began to dance. The devils in great
surprise jumped up, saying, "Who is this?" but the old man advancing and receding, swaying
to and fro, and posturing this way and that way, the whole crowd laughed and enjoyed the fun,
saying: "How well the old man dances! You must always come and join us in our sport; but, for
fear you might not come, you must give us a pledge that you will." So the devils consulted
together, and, agreeing that the lump on his face, which was a token of wealth, was what he
valued most highly, demanded that it should be taken. The old man replied: "I have had this
lump many years, and would not without good reason part with it; but you may have it, or an
eye, or my nose either if you wish." So the devils laid hold of it, twisting and pulling, and
took it off without giving him any pain, and put it away as a pledge that he would come back.
Just then the day began to dawn, and the birds to sing, so the devils hurried away.

The old man felt his face and found it quite smooth, and not a trace of the lump left. He forgot
all about cutting wood, and hastened home. His wife, seeing him, exclaimed in great surprise,
"What has happened to you?" So he told her all that had befallen him.

Now, among the neighbors there was another old man who had a big lump on the left side of his
face. Hearing all about how the first old man had got rid of his misfortune, he determined
that he would also try the same plan. So he went and crept into the hollow tree, and waited
for the devils to come. Sure enough, they came just as he was told, and they sat down, drank
wine, and made merry just as they did before. The second old man, afraid and trembling, crept
out of the hollow tree. The devils welcomed him, saying: "The old man has come; now let us
see him dance." This old fellow was awkward, and did not dance as well as the other, so the
devils cried out: "You dance badly, and are getting worse and worse; we will give you back
the lump which we took from you as a pledge." Upon this, one of the devils brought the lump,
and stuck it on the other side of his face; so the poor old fellow returned home with a lump
on each side.

AUTUMN AND SPRING

ADAPTED BY FRANK HINDER

A fair maiden lay asleep in a rice field. The sun was at its height, and she was weary. Now
a god looked down upon the rice field. He knew that the beauty of the maiden came from within,
that it mirrored the beauty of heavenly dreams. He knew that even now, as she smiled, she held
converse with the spirit of the wind or the flowers.

The god descended and asked the dream-maiden to be his bride. She rejoiced, and they were wed.
A wonderful red jewel came of their happiness.

Long, long afterwards, the stone was found by a farmer, who saw that it was a very rare jewel.
He prized it highly, and always carried it about with him. Sometimes, as he looked at it in
the pale light of the moon, it seemed to him that he could discern eyes in its depths. Again,
in the stillness of the night, he would awaken and think that a clear soft voice called him
by name.

One day, the farmer had to carry the midday meal to his workers in the field. The sun was very
hot, so he loaded a cow with the bowls of rice, the millet dumplings, and the beans. Suddenly,
Prince Ama-boko stood in the path. He was angry, for he thought that the farmer was about to
kill the cow. The Prince would hear no word of denial; his wrath increased. The farmer became
more and more terrified, and, finally, took the precious stone from his pocket and presented
it as a peace-offering to the powerful Prince. Ama-boko marveled at the brilliancy of the jewel,
and allowed the man to continue his journey.

The Prince returned to his home. He drew forth the treasure, and it was immediately transformed
into a goddess of surpassing beauty. Even as she rose before him, he loved her, and ere the
moon waned they were wed. The goddess ministered to his every want. She prepared delicate dishes,
the secret of which is known only to the gods. She made wine from the juice of a myriad herbs,
wine such as mortals never taste.

But, after a time, the Prince became proud and overbearing. He began to treat his faithful
wife with cruel contempt. The goddess was sad, and said: "You are not worthy of my love. I
will leave you and go to my father." Ama-boko paid no heed to these words, for he did not believe
that the threat would be fulfilled. But the beautiful goddess was in earnest. She escaped from
the palace and fled to Naniwa, where she is still honored as Akaru-hime, the Goddess of Light.

Now the Prince was wroth when he heard that the goddess had left him, and set out in pursuit
of her. But when he neared Naniwa, the gods would not allow his vessel to enter the haven.
Then he knew that his priceless red jewel was lost to him forever. He steered his ship towards
the north coast of Japan, and landed at Tajima. Here he was well received, and highly esteemed
on account of the treasures which he brought with him. He had costly strings of pearls, girdles
of precious stones, and a mirror which the wind and the waves obeyed. Prince Ama-boko remained
at Tajima, and was the father of a mighty race.

Among his children's children was a Princess so renowned for her beauty that eighty suitors
sought her hand. One after the other returned sorrowfully home, for none found favor in her
eyes. At last, two brothers came before her, the young God of the Autumn, and the young God
of the Spring. The elder of the two, the God of Autumn, first urged his suit. But the Princess
refused him. He went to his younger brother and said, "The Princess does not love me, neither
will you be able to win her heart."

But the Spring God was full of hope, and replied, "I will give you a cask of rice wine if I
do not win her, but if she consents to be my bride, you shall give a cask of saké to me."

Now the God of Spring went to his mother, and told her all. She promised to aid him. Thereupon
she wove, in a single night, a robe and sandals from the unopened buds of the lilac and white
wistaria. Out of the same delicate flowers she fashioned a bow and arrows. Thus clad, the God
of Spring made his way to the beautiful Princess.

As he stepped before the maiden, every bud unfolded, and from the heart of each blossom came
a fragrance that filled the air. The Princess was overjoyed, and gave her hand to the God of
Spring.

The elder brother, the God of Autumn, was filled with rage when he heard how his brother had
obtained the wondrous robe. He refused to give the promised cask of saké. When the mother learned
that the god had broken his word, she placed stones and salt in the hollow of a bamboo cane,
wrapped it round with bamboo leaves, and hung it in the smoke. Then she uttered a curse upon
her first-born: "As the leaves wither and fade, so must you. As the salt sea ebbs, so must
you. As the stone sinks, so must you."

The terrible curse fell upon her son. While the God of Spring remains ever young, ever fragrant,
ever full of mirth, the God of Autumn is old, and withered, and sad.

THE VISION OF TSUNU

ADAPTED BY FRANK RINDER

When the five tall pine-trees on the windy heights of Mionoseki were but tiny shoots, there
lived in the Kingdom of the Islands a pious man. His home was in a remote hamlet surrounded
by mountains and great forests of pine. Tsunu had a wife and sons and daughters. He was a woodman,
and his days were spent in the forest and on the hillsides. In summer he was up at cock-crow,
and worked patiently, in the soft light under the pines, until nightfall. Then, with his burden
of logs and branches, he went slowly homeward. After the evening meal, he would tell some old
story or legend. Tsunu was never weary of relating the wondrous tales of the Land of the Gods.
Best of all he loved to speak of Fuji-yama, the mountain that stood so near his home.

In times gone by, there was no mountain where now the sacred peak reaches up to the sky; only
a far-stretching plain bathed in sunlight all day. The peasants in the district were astonished,
one morning, to behold a mighty hill where before had been the open plain. It had sprung up
in a single night, while they slept. Flames and huge stones were hurled from its summit; the
peasants feared that the demons from the under-world had come to wreak vengeance upon them.
But for many generations there have been peace and silence on the heights. The good Sun-Goddess
loves Fuji-yama. Every evening she lingers on his summit, and when at last she leaves him,
his lofty crest is bathed in soft purple light. In the evening the Matchless Mountain seems
to rise higher and higher into the skies, until no mortal can tell the place of his rest. Golden
clouds enfold Fuji-yama in the early morning. Pilgrims come from far and near, to gain blessing
and health for themselves and their families from the sacred mountain.

On the self-same night that Fuji-yama rose out of the earth, a strange thing happened in the
mountainous district near Kyoto. The inhabitants were awakened by a terrible roar, which continued
throughout the night. In the morning every mountain had disappeared; not one of the hills that
they loved was to be seen. A blue lake lay before them. It was none other than the lute-shaped
Lake Biwa. The mountains had, in truth, traveled under the earth for more than a hundred miles,
and now form the sacred Fuji-yama.

As Tsunu stepped out of his hut in the morning, his eyes sought the Mountain of the Gods. He
saw the golden clouds, and the beautiful story was in his mind as he went to his work.

One day the woodman wandered farther than usual into the forest. At noon he was in a very lonely
spot. The air was soft and sweet, the sky so blue that he looked long at it, and then took
a deep breath. Tsunu was happy.

Now his eye fell on a little fox who watched him curiously from the bushes. The creature ran
away when it saw that the man's attention had been attracted. Tsunu thought, "I will follow
the little fox and see where she goes." Off he started in pursuit. He soon came to a bamboo
thicket. The smooth, slender stems waved dreamily, the pale green leaves still sparkled with
the morning dew. But it was not this which caused the woodman to stand spellbound. On a plot
of mossy grass beyond the thicket, sat two maidens of surpassing beauty. They were partly shaded
by the waving bamboos, but their faces were lit up by the sunlight. Not a word came from their
lips, yet Tsunu knew that the voices of both must be sweet as the cooing of the wild dove.
The maidens were graceful as the slender willow, they were fair as the blossom of the cherry-tree.
Slowly they moved the chessmen which lay before them on the grass. Tsunu hardly dared to breathe,
lest he should disturb them. The breeze caught their long hair, the sunlight played upon it....
The sun still shone.... The chessmen were still slowly moved to and fro.... The woodman gazed
enraptured.

"But now," thought Tsunu, "I must return, and tell those at home of the beautiful maidens."
Alas, his knees were stiff and weak. "Surely I have stood here for many hours," he said. He
leaned for support upon his axe; it crumbled into dust. Looking down he saw that a flowing
white beard hung from his chin.

For many hours the poor woodman tried in vain to reach his home. Fatigued and wearied, he came
at last to a hut. But all was changed. Strange faces peered curiously at him. The speech of
the people was unfamiliar. "Where are my wife and my children?" he cried. But no one knew his name.

Finally, the poor woodman came to understand that seven generations had passed since he bade
farewell to his dear ones in the early morning. While he had gazed at the beautiful maidens,
his wife, his children, and his children's children had lived and died.

The few remaining years of Tsunu's life were spent as a pious pilgrim to Fuji-yama, his well-loved
mountain.

Since his death he has been honored as a saint who brings prosperity to the people of his native
country.

THE STAR-LOVERS

ADAPTED BY FRANK RINDER

Shokujo, daughter of the Sun, dwelt with her father on the banks of the Silver River of Heaven,
which we call the Milky Way. She was a lovely maiden, graceful and winsome, and her eyes were
tender as the eyes of a dove. Her loving father, the Sun, was much troubled because Shokujo
did not share in the youthful pleasures of the daughters of the air. A soft melancholy seemed
to brood over her, but she never wearied of working for the good of others, and especially
did she busy herself at her loom; indeed she came to be called the Weaving Princess.

The Sun bethought him that if he could give his daughter in marriage, all would be well; her
dormant love would be kindled into a flame that would illumine her whole being and drive out
the pensive spirit which oppressed her. Now there lived, hard by, a right honest herdsman,
named Kingen, who tended his cows on the borders of the Heavenly Stream. The Sun-King proposed
to bestow his daughter on Kingen, thinking in this way to provide for her happiness and at
the same time keep her near him. Every star beamed approval, and there was joy in the heavens.

The love that bound Shokujo and Kingen to one another was a great love. With its awakening,
Shokujo forsook her former occupations, nor did she any longer labor industriously at the loom,
but laughed, and danced, and sang, and made merry from morn till night. The Sun-King was sorely
grieved, for he had not foreseen so great a change. Anger was in his eyes, and he said, "Kingen
is surely the cause of this, therefore I will banish him to the other side of the River of Stars."

When Shokujo and Kingen heard that they were to be parted, and could thenceforth, in accordance
with the King's decree, meet but once a year, and that upon the seventh night of the seventh
month, their hearts were heavy. The leave-taking between them was a sad one, and great tears
stood in Shokujo's eyes as she bade farewell to her lover-husband. In answer to the behest
of the Sun-King, myriads of magpies flocked together, and, outspreading their wings, formed
a bridge on which Kingen crossed the River of Heaven. The moment that his foot touched the
opposite bank, the birds dispersed with noisy chatter, leaving poor Kingen a solitary exile.
He looked wistfully towards the weeping figure of Shokujo, who stood on the threshold of her
now desolate home.

Long and weary were the succeeding days, spent as they were by Kingen in guiding his oxen and
by Shokujo in plying her shuttle. The Sun-King was gladdened by his daughter's industry. When
night fell and the heavens were bright with countless lights, the lovers were wont, standing
on the banks of the celestial stream, to waft across it sweet and tender messages, while each
uttered a prayer for the speedy coming of the wondrous night.

The long-hoped-for month and day drew nigh, and the hearts of the lovers were troubled lest
rain should fall; for the Silver River, full at all times, is at that season often in flood,
and the bird-bridge might be swept away.

The day broke cloudlessly bright. It waxed and waned, and one by one the lamps of heaven were
lighted. At nightfall the magpies assembled, and Shokujo, quivering with delight, crossed the
slender bridge and fell into the arms of her lover. Their transport of joy was as the joy of
the parched flower, when the raindrop falls upon it; but the moment of parting soon came, and
Shokujo sorrowfully retraced her steps.

Year follows year, and the lovers still meet in that far-off land on the seventh night of the
seventh month, save when rain has swelled the Silver River and rendered the crossing impossible.
The hope of a permanent reunion still fills the hearts of the Star-Lovers, and is to them as
a sweet fragrance and a beautiful vision. Thy brother is virtuous, therefore have I blessed him.

"That is enough," said Zarè, "hurry home."

Thanking the months, she returned joyfully. Where are you going?" Where are you going?" Come
and see me by-and-by." Where are you going?"

And he started off in search of these treasures. But he has not yet returned from his search.
(grandma) he cried, "I have heard a momendo." They spent some days in talking with each other.
"Well! I will tell you," said Hiawatha, "what it is."

Hiawatha was pacified. He returned to his lodge, where he was confined by the wounds he had
received. But owing to his grandmother's skill in medicine he was soon recovered. Shame, shame
you ugly fish." The trout, being thus rebuked, let go. Just at this moment he received another
severe blow on the heart. "No, no," he said, "why should I want to look at you?"

Hiawatha was an expert hunter when he earnestly tried to be. "Well," said he, "I do not know
where to begin. At the head? No! People will laugh, and say 'he ate him backwards!'" He went
to the side. "No!" said he, "they will say I ate him sideways." He then went to the hind-quarter.
"No!" said he, "they will say I ate him toward the head. I will begin here, say what they will."
He had gone but half way across when the ice gave way, and falling in, he was immediately seized
by the serpents, who knowing he was Hiawatha's grandson, were thirsting for revenge upon him.
Meanwhile Hiawatha sat pensively in his lodge.

Night came on, but no grandson returned. The second and third night passed, but he did not
appear. "I wonder," said he, "how I must do it? He then raised the lamentation for his grandson
which had pleased him, sitting down near a small brook that emptied itself into the lake, and
repeating his cries. Soon a bird called Ke-ske-mun-i-see came near to him. The bird inquired,
"What are you doing here?" But are you not Hiawatha himself?" Before they come out, the lake
will appear perfectly calm; not even a ripple will appear. After midday you will see them."

"Thank you," he replied; "I am Hiawatha. It may be Hiawatha. They then coiled themselves in
a circle about their Prince. It was a long time before they fell asleep. Oh, I am afraid you
are Hiawatha!" He burst out into a laugh to quiet her fears. "Ha! ha! ha! how can that be?
Those who fled went towards the South.

Having accomplished the victory over the reptiles, Hiawatha returned to his former place of
dwelling and married the arrow-maker's daughter.

LEGENDARY HEROES OF MANY COUNTRIES

HEROES OF GREECE AND ROME

PERSEUS

ADAPTED BY MARY MACGREGOR

I

PERSEUS AND HIS MOTHER

Once upon a time there were two Princes who were twins. Because you have sinned against your
kindred, by your kindred shall you be punished. Your daughter Danæ shall bear a son, and by
that son's hands you shall die. So the gods have said, and it shall surely come to pass."

At that the hard-hearted Prince was very much afraid, but he did not mend his ways. For when
he became King, he shut up his fair daughter Danæ in a cavern underground, lined with brass,
that no one might come near her. So he fancied himself more cunning than the gods.

Now it came to pass that in time Danæ bore a son, so beautiful a babe that any but the King
would have had pity on it.

And away and out to sea before the northwest wind floated the mother and her babe, while all
who watched them wept, save that cruel King.

So they floated on and on, and the chest danced up and down upon the billows, and the babe
slept in its mother's arms. But the poor mother could not sleep, but watched and wept, and
she sang to her babe as they floated. And as he spoke he pointed to the babe, for its face
shone like the morning star.

But Danæ only held down her head and sobbed out, "Tell me to what land I have come, and among
what men I have fallen."

And he said, "Polydectes is King of this isle, and he is my brother. Men call me Dictys the
Netter, because I catch the fish of the shore."

His mother called him Perseus, but all the people in the isle called him the King of the Immortals.

For though he was but fifteen, Perseus was taller by a head than any man in the island. For
now Danæ and her son fell into great danger, and Perseus had need of all his strength to defend
his mother and himself.

Polydectes, the King of the island, was not a good man like his brother Dictys, but he was
greedy and cunning and cruel.

And when he saw fair Danæ, he wanted to marry her. But she would not, for she did not love
him, and cared for no one but her boy.

At last Polydectes became furious, and while Perseus was away at sea, he took poor Danæ away
from Dictys, saying, "If you will not be my wife, you shall be my slave."

So Danæ was made a slave, and had to fetch water from the well, and grind in the mill.

But Perseus was far away over the seas, little thinking that his mother was in great grief
and sorrow. And how do you know my name?" Instead of hair, vipers wreathed about her temples
and shot out their forked tongues, and she had claws of brass. Return to your home, and when
you have done the work that awaits you there, you may be worthy to go in search of the monster."

When Perseus saw the King, he flew upon him and cried, "Tyrant! is this thy mercy to strangers
and widows?

Then Perseus lowered his hand, and Polydectes, who had been trembling all this while like a
coward, let Perseus and his mother pass. And there Perseus and the good Dictys and his wife
came to visit her every day.

As for Polydectes, not being able to get Danæ by force, he cast about how he might get her
by cunning.

Perseus blushed and stammered, while all the proud men round laughed and mocked, till the lad
grew mad with shame, and hardly knowing what he said, cried out:

"A present! See if I do not bring a nobler one than all of yours together!"

"Hear the boaster! What is the present to be?" cried they all, laughing louder than ever.

"Athene, was my dream true? Shall I slay the Gorgon?" he prayed. "Rashly and angrily I promised,
but wisely and patiently will I perform."

Then he saw afar off a small white cloud, as bright as silver. And as it touched the cliffs,
it broke and parted, and within it appeared Athene, and beside her a young man, whose eyes
were like sparks of fire.

And they came swiftly towards Perseus, and he fell down and worshiped, for he knew they were
more than mortal.

But Athene spoke gently to him and bade him have no fear.

And Athene said, "Perseus, this deed requires a seven years' journey, in which you cannot turn
back nor escape. If your heart fails, you must die, and no man will ever find your bones."

And Perseus said, "Tell me, O fair and wise Athene, how I can do but this one thing, and then,
if need be, die."

Then Athene smiled and said, "Be patient and listen. You must go northward till you find the
Three Gray Sisters, who have but one eye and one tooth amongst them. Ask them the way to the
daughters of the Evening Star, for they will tell you the way to the Gorgon, that you may slay
her. But beware! for her eyes are so terrible that whosoever looks on them is turned to stone."

"How am I to escape her eyes?" said Perseus; "will she not freeze me too?"

Then said Perseus, "I will go, though I die in going. But how shall I cross the seas without
a ship? And who will show me the way? And how shall I slay her, if her scales be iron and brass?"

III

HOW PERSEUS SLEW THE GORGON

So Perseus started on his journey, going dryshod over land and sea, and his heart was high
and joyful, for the sandals bore him each day a seven days' journey.

And at last by the shore of a freezing sea, beneath the cold winter moon, he found the Three
Gray Sisters. There was no living thing around them, not a fly, not a moss upon the rocks.

They heard his voice, and then one cried, "Give me the eye that I may see him," and another,
"Give me the tooth that I may bite him," but they had no answer for his question.

At last he heard sweet voices singing, and he guessed that he was come to the garden of the
daughters of the Evening Star.

When they saw him they trembled and said, "Are you come to rob our garden and carry off our
golden fruit?"

But Perseus answered, "I want none of your golden fruit. Tell me the way which leads to the
Gorgon that I may go on my way and slay her."

"Not yet, not yet, fair boy," they answered, "come dance with us around the trees in the garden."

But Perseus said, "The gods have lent me weapons, and will give me wisdom to use them."

Then the fair maidens told him that the Gorgon lived on an island far away, but that whoever
went near the island must wear the hat of darkness, so that he could not himself be seen. And
one of the fair maidens held in her hand the magic hat.

While all the maidens kissed Perseus and wept over him, he was only impatient to be gone.

Medusa tossed to and fro restlessly in her sleep.

And well his brave sandals bore him through cloud and sunshine across the shoreless sea, till
he came again to the gardens of the fair maidens.

Then he asked them, "By what road shall I go homeward again?"

And they wept and cried, "Go home no more, but stay and play with us, the lonely maidens."

But Perseus refused and leapt down the mountain, and went on like a sea-gull, away and out
to sea. And when morning came there was nothing to be seen, save the same old hateful waste
of sand.

At last the gale fell, and he tried to go northward again, but again down came the sandstorms
and swept him back into the desert; and then all was calm and cloudless as before.

Then he cried to Athene, "Shall I never see my mother more, and the blue ripple of the sea
and the sunny hills of Hellas?"

So he prayed, and after he had prayed there was a great silence.

And Perseus stood still awhile and waited, and said, "Surely I am not here but by the will
of the gods, for Athené will not lie. I will go near and see." She is too fair, at least, to
have done any wrong. I will speak to her," and, lifting the magic hat from his head, he flashed
into her sight. She shrieked with terror, but Perseus cried, "Do not fear me, fair one. Go
you your way, I must go mine." I must die now. Oh go!" And she tried to thrust him away. At
last he saw Andromeda and shot forward to take his prey.

And the King and the Queen came, and all the people came with songs and dances to receive Andromeda
back again, as one alive from the dead.

Then said the King, "You must not take my daughter away at once, for she is to us as one alive
from the dead. Stay with us here a year, and after that you shall return with honor." Then
they made a great wedding feast, which lasted seven whole days.

But on the eighth night Perseus dreamed a dream. Now give me the sword and the sandals, and
the hat of darkness, that I may give them back to those to whom they belong. But the Gorgon's
head you shall keep a while, for you will need it in your land of Hellas."

And when Perseus reached the land, of Hellas he left his galley on the beach, and went up as
of old. He embraced his mother and Dictys, and they wept over each other, for it was seven
years and more since they had parted.

Perseus stood upon the threshold and called to the King by name. But none of the guests knew
the stranger, for he was changed by his long journey. He had gone out a boy, and he was come
home a hero. And Perseus rowed westward till he came to his old home, and there he found that
his grandfather had fled.

The heart of Perseus yearned after his grandfather, and he said, "Surely he will love me now
that I am come home with honor. I will go and find him and bring him back, and we will reign
together in peace."

So Perseus sailed away, and at last he came to the land where his grandfather dwelt, and all
the people were in the fields, and there was feasting and all kinds of games.

And when the games began, Perseus was the best of all at running and leaping, and wrestling
and throwing.

So he took the stones and hurled them five fathoms beyond all the rest. Then he told them how
a prophet had said that he should kill his grandfather.

And when they died, the ancients say that Athené took them up to the sky. All night long Perseus
and Andromeda shine as a beacon for wandering sailors, but all day long they feast with the
gods, on the still blue peaks in the home of the Immortals.

ODYSSEUS

ADAPTED BY JEANIE LANG

I

HOW ODYSSEUS LEFT TROYLAND AND SAILED FOR HIS KINGDOM PAST THE LAND OF THE LOTUS EATERS

In the days of long ago there reigned over Ithaca, a rugged little island in the sea to the
west of Greece, a King whose name was Odysseus.

Odysseus feared no man. Stronger and braver than other men was he, wiser, and more full of
clever devices. Far and wide he was known as Odysseus of the many counsels. Wise, also, was
his Queen, Penelope, and she was as fair as she was wise, and as good as she was fair.

While their only child, a boy named Telemachus, was still a baby, there was a very great war
in Troyland, a country far across the sea.

The brother of the overlord of all Greece beseiged Troy, and the kings and princes of his land
came to help him. Many came from afar, but none from a more distant kingdom than Odysseus.
Wife and child and old father he left behind him and sailed away with his black-prowed ships
to fight in Troyland.

For ten years the siege of Troy went on, and of the heroes who fought there, none was braver
than Odysseus. Clad as a beggar he went into the city and found out much to help the Greek
armies. With his long sword he fought his way out again, and left many of the men of Troy lying
dead behind him. And many other brave feats did Odysseus do.

After long years of fighting, Troy at last was taken. With much rich plunder the besiegers
sailed homewards, and Odysseus set sail for his rocky island, with its great mountain, and
its forests of trembling leaves.

Of gladness and of longing his heart was full. With a great love he loved his fair wife and
little son and old father, and his little kingdom by the sea was very dear to him.

"I can see nought beside sweeter than a man's own country," he said. Very soon he hoped to
see his dear land again, but many a long and weary day was to pass ere Odysseus came home.

Odysseus was a warrior, and always he would choose to fight rather than to be at peace.

As he sailed on his homeward way, winds drove his ships near the shore. He and his company
landed, sacked the nearest city, and slew the people. Much rich plunder they took, but ere
they could return to their ships, a host of people came from inland. In the early morning,
thick as leaves and flowers in the spring they came, and fell upon Odysseus and his men.

All day they fought, but as the sun went down the people of the land won the fight. Back to
their ships went Odysseus and his men. Out of each ship were six men slain. While they were
yet sad at heart and weary from the fight, a terrible tempest arose.

Land and sea were blotted out, the ships were driven headlong, and their sails were torn to
shreds by the might of the storm. For two days and two nights the ships were at the mercy of
the tempests. At dawn on the third day, the storm passed away, and Odysseus and his men set
up their masts and hoisted their white sails, and drove homeward before the wind.

So he would have come safely to his own country, but a strong current and a fierce north wind
swept the ships from their course. For nine days were they driven far from their homeland,
across the deep sea.

On the tenth day they reached the Land of the Lotus Eaters. The dwellers in that land fed on
the honey-sweet fruit of the lotus flower. Those who ate the lotus ceased to remember that
there was a past or a future. All duties they forgot, and all sadness. All day long they would
sit and dream and dream idle, happy dreams that never ended.

Here Odysseus and his men landed and drew water. Three of his warriors Odysseus sent into the
country to see what manner of men dwelt there. To them the Lotus Eaters gave their honey-sweet
food, and no sooner had each man eaten than he had no wish ever to return to the ships. He
longed for ever to stay in that pleasant land, eating the lotus fruit, and dreaming the happy
hours away.

Back to the ships Odysseus dragged the unwilling men, weeping that they must leave so much
joy behind. Beneath the benches of his ship he tightly bound them, and swiftly he made his
ships sail from the shore, lest yet others of his company might eat of the lotus and forget
their homes and their kindred.

Soon they had all embarked, and, with heavy hearts, the men of Ithaca smote the gray sea-water
with their long oars, and sped away from the land of forgetfulness and of sweet day-dreams.

II

HOW ODYSSEUS CAME TO THE LAND OF THE CYCLÔPES, AND HIS ADVENTURES THERE

On and on across the waves sailed the dark-prowed ships of Odysseus, until again they came to land.

It was the Land of the Cyclôpes, a savage and lawless people, who never planted, nor plowed,
nor sowed, and whose fields yet gave them rich harvests of wheat and of barley, and vines with
heavy clusters of grapes. In deep caves, high up on the hills, these people dwelt, and each
man ruled his own wife and children, but himself knew no ruler.

Outside the harbor of the Land of the Cyclôpes lay a thickly wooded island. No hunters went
there, for the Cyclôpes owned neither ships nor boats, so that many goats roamed unharmed through
the woods and cropped the fresh green grass.

It was a green and pleasant land. Rich meadows stretched down to the sea, the vines grew strong
and fruitful, and there was a fair harbor where ships might be run right on to the beach. At
the head of the harbor was a well of clear water flowing out of a cave, and with poplars growing
around it. Thither Odysseus directed his ships. It was dark night, with no moon to guide, and
mist lay deep on either side, yet they passed the breakers and rolling surf without knowing
it, and anchored safely on the beach.

All night they slept, and when rosy dawn came they explored the island and slew with their
bows and long spears many of the wild goats of the woods.

All the livelong day Odysseus and his men sat and feasted. As they ate and drank, they looked
across the water at the Land of the Cyclôpes, where the smoke of wood fires curled up to the
sky, and from whence they could hear the sound of men's voices and the bleating of sheep and
goats. When darkness fell, they lay down to sleep on the sea-beach, and when morning dawned
Odysseus called his men together and said to them: "Stay here, all the rest of you, my dear
companions, but I will go with my own ship and my ship's company and see what kind of men are
those who dwell in this land across the harbor."

So saying, he climbed into his ship, and his men rowed him across to the Land of the Cyclôpes.
When they were near the shore they saw a great cave by the sea. It was roofed in with green
laurel boughs and seemed to be meant for a fold to shelter sheep and goats. Round about it
a high outer wall was firmly built with stones, and with tall and leafy pines and oak-trees.

In this cave, all alone with his flocks and herds, dwelt a huge and hideous one-eyed giant.
Polyphemus was his name, and his father was Poseidon, god of the sea.

Taking twelve of his best men with him, Odysseus left the others to guard the ship and sallied
forth to the giant's cave. With him he carried a goat-skin full of precious wine, dark red,
and sweet and strong, and a large sack of corn.

Soon they came to the cave, but Polyphemus was not there. He had taken off his flocks to graze
in the green meadows, leaving behind him in the cave folds full of lambs and kids. The walls
of the cave were lined with cheeses, and there were great pans full of whey, and giant bowls
full of milk.

"Let us first of all take the cheeses," said the men of Odysseus to their King, "and carry
them to the ships. Then let us return and drive all the kids and lambs from their folds down
to the shore, and sail with them in our swift ships homeward over the sea."

But Odysseus would not listen to what they said. He was too great hearted to steal into the
cave like a thief and take away the giant's goods without first seeing whether Polyphemus might
not treat him as a friend, receiving from him the corn and wine he had brought, and giving
him gifts in return.

So they kindled a fire, and dined on some of the cheeses, and sat waiting for the giant to return.

Towards evening he came, driving his flocks before him, and carrying on his back a huge load
of firewood, which he cast down on the floor with such a thunderous noise that Odysseus and
his men fled in fear and hid themselves in the darkest corners of the cave. When he had driven
his sheep inside, Polyphemus lifted from the ground a rock so huge that two-and-twenty four-wheeled
wagons could not have borne it, and with it blocked the doorway. Then, sitting down, he milked
the ewes and bleating goats, and placed the lambs and kids each beside its own mother.

Half of the milk he curdled and placed in wicker baskets to make into cheeses, and the other
half he left in great pails to drink when he should have supper. When all this was done, he
kindled a fire, and when the flames had lit up the dark-walled cave he spied Odysseus and his men.

"Strangers, who are ye?" he asked, in his great, rumbling voice. "Whence sail ye over the watery
ways? Are ye merchants? or are ye sea-robbers who rove over the sea, risking your own lives
and bringing evil to other men?"

The sound of the giant's voice, and his hideous face filled the hearts of the men with terror,
but Odysseus made answer: "From Troy we come, seeking our home, but driven hither by winds
and waves. Men of Agamemnon, the renowned and most mightily victorious Greek general, are we,
yet to thee we come and humbly beg for friendship."

At this the giant, who had nothing but cruelty in his heart, mocked at Odysseus.

"Thou art a fool," said he, "and I shall not spare either thee or thy company. But tell me
where thou didst leave thy good ship? Was it near here, or at the far end of the island?"

But Odysseus of the many counsels knew that the giant asked the question only to bring evil
on the men who stayed by the ship, and so he answered: "My ship was broken in pieces by the
storm and cast up on the rocks on the shore, but I, with these my men, escaped from death."

Not one word said Polyphemus in reply, but sprang up, clutched hold of two of the men, and
dashed their brains out on the stone floor. Then he cut them up, and made ready his supper,
eating the two men, bones and all, as if he had been a starving lion, and taking great draughts
of the milk from the giant pails. When his meal was done, he stretched himself on the ground
beside his sheep and goats, and slept.

In helpless horror Odysseus and his men had watched the dreadful sight, but when the monster
slept they began to make plans for their escape. At first Odysseus thought it might be best
to take his sharp sword and stab Polyphemus in the breast. But then he knew that even were
he thus to slay the giant, he and his men must die. For strength was not left them to roll
away the rock from the cave's mouth, and so they must perish like rats in a trap.

All night they thought what they should do, but could think of nought that would avail, and
so they could only moan in their bitterness of heart and wait for the dawn. When dawn's rosy
fingers touched the sky, Polyphemus awoke. He kindled a fire, and milked his flocks, and gave
each ewe her lamb. When this work was done he snatched yet other two men, dashed their brains
out, and made of them his morning meal. After the meal, he lifted the stone from the door,
drove the flocks out, and set the stone back again. Then, with a loud shout, he turned his
sheep and goats towards the hills and left Odysseus and his remaining eight men imprisoned
in the cave, plotting and planning how to get away, and how to avenge the death of their comrades.

At last Odysseus thought of a plan. By the sheepfold there lay a huge club of green olive wood
that Polyphemus had cut and was keeping until it should be dry enough to use as a staff. So
huge was it that Odysseus and his men likened it to the mast of a great merchant vessel. From
this club Odysseus cut a large piece and gave it to his men to fine down and make even. While
they did this, Odysseus himself sharpened it to a point and hardened the point in the fire.
When it was ready, they hid it amongst the rubbish on the floor of the cave. Then Odysseus
made his men draw lots who should help him to lift this bar and drive it into the eye of the
giant as he slept, and the lot fell upon the four men that Odysseus would himself have chosen.

In the evening Polyphemus came down from the hills with his flocks and drove them all inside
the cave. Then he lifted the great doorstone and blocked the doorway, milked the ewes and goats,
and gave each lamb and kid to its mother. This done, he seized other two of the men, dashed
out their brains, and made ready his supper.

From the shadows of the cave Odysseus now stepped forward, bearing in his hands an ivy bowl,
full of the dark red wine.

"Drink wine after thy feast of men's flesh," said Odysseus, "and see what manner of drink this
was that our ship held."

Polyphemus grasped the bowl, gulped down the strong wine, and smacked his great lips over its
sweetness.

"Give me more," he cried, "and tell me thy name straightway, that I may give thee a gift. Mighty
clusters of grapes do the vines of our land bear for us, but this is a rill of very nectar
and ambrosia."

Again Odysseus gave him the bowl full of wine, and yet again, until the strong wine went to
the giant's head and made him stupid.

Then said Odysseus: "Thou didst ask me my name, and didst say that thou wouldst give me a gift.
Noman is my name, and Noman they call me, my father and mother and all my fellows."

Then answered the giant out of his pitiless heart: "I will eat thy fellows first, Noman, and
thee the last of all. That shall be thy gift."

Soon the wine made him so sleepy that he sank backwards with his great face upturned and fell
fast asleep.

As soon as the giant slept, Odysseus thrust into the fire the stake he had prepared, and made
it red hot, all the while speaking cheerfully and comfortingly to his men. When it was so hot
that the wood, green though it was, began to blaze, they drew it out and thrust it into the
giant's eye. Round and round they whirled the fiery pike, as a man bores a hole in a plank,
until the blood gushed out, and the eye frizzled and hissed, and the flames singed and burned
the eyelids, and the eye was burned out. With a great and terrible cry the giant sprang to
his feet, and Odysseus and the others fled from before him. From his eye he dragged the blazing
pike, all dripping with his blood, and dashed it to the ground. Then, maddened with pain, he
called with a great and terrible cry on the other Cyclôpes, who dwelt in their caves on the
hill-tops round which the wind swept. The giants, hearing his horrid yells, rushed to help him.

"What ails thee, Polyphemus?" they asked. "Why dost thou cry aloud in the night and awake us
from our sleep? Surely no one stealeth thy flocks? None slayeth thee by force or by craft."

From the other side of the great stone moaned Polyphemus: "Noman is slaying me by craft."

Then the Cyclôpes said: "If no man is hurting thee, then indeed it must be a sickness that
makes thee cry so loud, and this thou must bear, for we cannot help."

With that they strode away from the cave and left the blind giant groaning and raging with
pain. Groping with his hands, he found the great stone that blocked the door, lifted it away,
and sat himself down in the mouth of the cave, with his arms stretched out, hoping to catch
Odysseus and his men if they should try to escape. Sitting there, he fell asleep, and, as soon
as he slept, Odysseus planned and plotted how best to win freedom.

The rams of the giant's flocks were great strong beasts, with fleeces thick and woolly, and
as dark as the violet. With twisted slips of willow Odysseus lashed every three of them together,
and under the middle ram of each three he bound one of his men. For himself he kept the best
ram of the flock, young and strong, and with a fleece wonderfully thick and shaggy. Underneath
this ram Odysseus curled himself, and clung, face upwards, firmly grasping the wool with his
hands. In this wise did he and his men wait patiently for the dawn.

When rosy dawn came, the ewes in the pens bleated to be milked and the rams hastened out to
the hills and green meadows. As each sheep passed him, Polyphemus felt along its back, but
never guessed that the six remaining men of Odysseus were bound beneath the thick-fleeced rams.
Last of all came the young ram to which Odysseus clung, moving slowly, for his fleece was heavy,
and Odysseus whom he bore was heavier still. On the ram's back Polyphemus laid his great hands.
"Dear ram," said he, "once wert thou the very first to lead the flocks from the cave, the first
to nibble the tender buds of the pasture, the first to find out the running streams, and the
first to come home when evening fell. But to-day thou art the very last to go. Surely thou
art sorrowful because the wicked Noman hath destroyed my eye. I would thou couldst speak and
tell me where Noman is hidden. Then should I seize him and gladly dash out his brains on the
floor of the cave."

Very, very still lay Odysseus while the giant spoke, but the ram slowly walked on past the
savage giant, towards the meadows near the sea. Soon it was far enough from the cave for Odysseus
to let go his hold and to stand up. Quickly he loosened the bonds of the others, and swiftly
then they drove the rams down to the shore where their ship lay. Often they looked round, expecting
to see Polyphemus following them, but they safely reached the ship and got a glad welcome from
their friends, who rejoiced over them, but would have wept over the men that the cannibal giant
had slain.

"There is no time to weep," said Odysseus, and he made his men hasten on board the ship, driving
the sheep before them.

Soon they were all on board, and the gray sea-water was rushing off their oars, as they sailed
away from the land of the Cyclôpes.

But before they were out of sight of land, the bold Odysseus lifted up his voice and shouted
across the water:

"Hear me, Polyphemus, thou cruel monster! Thine evil deeds were very sure to find thee out.
Thou hast been punished because thou hadst no shame to eat the strangers who came to thee as
thy guests!"

The voice of Odysseus rang across the waves, and reached Polyphemus as he sat in pain at the
mouth of his cave.

In a fury the giant sprang up, broke off the peak of a great hill and cast it into the sea,
where it fell just in front of the ship of Odysseus.

So huge a splash did the vast rock give, that the sea heaved up and the backwash of the water
drove the ship right to the shore.

Odysseus snatched up a long pole and pushed the ship off once more. Silently he motioned to
the men to row hard, and save themselves and their ship from the angry giant. When they were
once more out at sea, Odysseus wished again to mock Polyphemus.

In vain his men begged him not to provoke a monster so mighty that he could crush their heads
and the timbers of their ship with one cast of a stone. Once more Odysseus shouted across the
water:

"Polyphemus, if any one shall ask thee who blinded thee, tell them it was Odysseus of Ithaca."

Then moaned the giant:

"Once, long ago, a soothsayer told me that Odysseus should make me blind. But ever I looked
for the coming of a great and gallant hero, and now there hath come a poor feeble, little dwarf,
who made me weak with wine before he dared to touch me."

Then he begged Odysseus to come back, and said he would treat him kindly, and told him that
he knew that his own father, the god of the sea, would give him his sight again.

"Never more wilt thou have thy sight," mocked Odysseus; "thy father will never heal thee."

Then Polyphemus, stretching out his hands, and looking up with his sightless eye to the starry
sky, called aloud to Poseidon, god of the sea, to punish Odysseus.

"If he ever reaches his own country," he cried, "let him come late and in an evil case, with
all his own company lost, and in the ship of strangers, and let him find sorrows in his own house."

No answer came from Poseidon, but the god of the sea heard his son's prayer.

With all his mighty force Polyphemus then cast at the ship a rock far greater than the first.
It all but struck the end of the rudder, but the huge waves that surged up from it bore on
the ship, and carried it to the further shore.

There they found the men with the other ships waiting in sorrow and dread, for they feared
that the giants had killed Odysseus and his company. Gladly they drove the rams of Polyphemus
on to the land, and there feasted together until the sun went down.

All night they slept on the sea beach, and at rosy dawn Odysseus called to his men to get into
their ships and loose the hawsers. Soon they had pushed off, and were thrusting their oars
into the gray sea-water.

Their hearts were sore, because they had lost six gallant men of their company, yet they were
glad as men saved from death.

III

HOW ODYSSEUS MET WITH CIRCE, THE SIRENS, AND CALYPSO

Across the seas sailed Odysseus and his men till they came to an island where lived Æolus the
keeper of the winds. When Odysseus again set sail, Æolus gave him a great leather bag in which
he had placed all the winds except the wind of the west. His men thought the bag to be full
of gold and silver, so, while Odysseus slept they loosened the silver thong, and, with a mighty
gust all the winds rushed out driving the ship far away from their homeland.

Ere long they reached another island, where dwelt a great enchantress, Circe of the golden
tresses, whose palace Eurylochus discovered. Within they heard Circe singing, so they called
to her and she came forth and bade them enter. Heedlessly they followed her, all but Eurylochus.
Then Circe smote them with her magic wand and they were turned into swine.

When Odysseus heard what had befallen his men he was very angry and would have slain her with
his sword. But Circe cried: "Sheathe thy sword, I pray thee, Odysseus, and let us be at peace."
Then said Odysseus: "How can I be at peace with thee, Circe? How can I trust thee?" Then Circe
promised to do Odysseus no harm, and to let him return in safety to his home.

Then she opened the doors of the sty and waved her wand. And the swine became men again even
handsomer and stronger than before.

For a whole year Odysseus and his men stayed in the palace, feasting and resting. When they
at last set sail again the sorceress told Odysseus of many dangers he would meet on his homeward
voyage, and warned him how to escape from them.

In an island in the blue sea through which the ship of Odysseus would sail toward home, lived
some beautiful mermaids called Sirens. Even more beautiful than the Sirens' faces were their
lovely voices by which they lured men to go on shore and there slew them. In the flowery meadows
were the bones of the foolish sailors who had seen only the lovely faces and long, golden hair
of the Sirens, and had lost their hearts to them.

Against these mermaids Circe had warned Odysseus, and he repeated her warnings to his men.

Following her advice he filled the ears of the men with wax and bade them bind him hand and
foot to the mast.

Past the island drove the ship, and the Sirens seeing it began their sweet song. "Come hither,
come hither, brave Odysseus," they sang. Then Odysseus tried to make his men unbind him, but
Eurylochus and another bound him yet more tightly to the mast.

When the island was left behind, the men took the wax from their ears and unbound their captain.
After passing the Wandering Rocks with their terrible sights and sounds the ship came to a
place of great peril. Beyond them were yet two huge rocks between which the sea swept.

One of these ran up to the sky, and in this cliff was a dark cave in which lived Scylla a horrible
monster, who, as the ship passed seized six of the men with her six dreadful heads.

In the cliff opposite lived another terrible creature called Charybdis who stirred the sea
to a fierce whirlpool.

By a strong wind the ship was driven into this whirlpool, but Odysseus escaped on a broken
piece of wreckage to the shores of an island.

On this island lived Calypso of the braided tresses, a goddess feared by all men. But, to Odysseus
she was very kind and he soon became as strong as ever.

"Stay with me, and thou shalt never grow old and never die," said Calypso.

A great homesickness had seized Odysseus, but no escape came for eight years. Then Athene begged
the gods to help him. They called on Hermes, who commanded Calypso to let him go. She wanted
him to stay with her but promised to send him away. She told him to make a raft which she would
furnish with food and clothing for his need.

He set out and in eighteen days saw the land of the Phæacians appear. But when safety seemed
near, Poseidon, the sea-god, returned from his wanderings and would have destroyed him had
it not been that a fair sea-nymph gave him her veil to wind around his body. This he did and
finally reached the shore.

IV

HOW ODYSSEUS MET WITH NAUSICAA

In the land of the Phæacians there dwelt no more beautiful, nor any sweeter maiden, than the
King's own daughter. Nausicaa was her name, and she was so kind and gentle that every one loved
her.

To the land of the Phæacians the north wind had driven Odysseus, and while he lay asleep in
his bed of leaves under the olive-trees, the goddess Athene went to the room in the palace
where Nausicaa slept, and spoke to her in her dreams.

"Some day thou wilt marry, Nausicaa," she said, "and it is time for thee to wash all the fair
raiment that is one day to be thine. To-morrow thou must ask the King, thy father, for mules
and for a wagon, and drive from the city to a place where all the rich clothing may be washed
and dried."

When morning came Nausicaa remembered her dream, and went to tell her father.

Her mother was sitting spinning yarn of sea-purple stain, and her father was just going to
a council meeting.

"Father, dear," said the Princess, "couldst thou lend me a high wagon with strong wheels, that
I may take all my fair linen to the river to wash. All yours, too, I shall take, so that thou
shalt go to the council in linen that is snowy clean, and I know that my five brothers will
also be glad if I wash their fine clothing for them."

This she said, for she felt too shy to tell her father what Athene had said about her getting
married.

But the King knew well why she asked. "I do not grudge thee mules, nor anything else, my child,"
he said. "Go, bid the servants prepare a wagon."

The servants quickly got ready the finest wagon that the King had, and harnessed the best of
the mules. And Nausicaa's mother filled a basket with all the dainties that she knew her daughter
liked best, so that Nausicaa and her maidens might feast together. The fine clothes were piled
into the wagon, the basket of food was placed carefully beside them, and Nausicaa climbed in,
took the whip and shining reins, and touched the mules. Then with clatter of hoofs they started.

When they were come to the beautiful, clear river, amongst whose reeds Odysseus had knelt the
day before, they unharnessed the mules and drove them along the banks of the river to graze
where the clover grew rich and fragrant. Then they washed the clothes, working hard and well,
and spread them out to dry on the clean pebbles down by the seashore.

Then they bathed, and when they had bathed they took their midday meal by the bank of the rippling
river.

When they had finished, the sun had not yet dried the clothes, so Nausicaa and her maidens
began to play ball. As they played they sang a song that the girls of that land would always
sing as they threw the ball to one another. All the maidens were fair, but Nausicaa of the
white arms was the fairest of all.

From hand to hand they threw the ball, growing always the merrier, until, when it was nearly
time for them to gather the clothes together and go home, Nausicaa threw it very hard to one
of the others. The girl missed the catch. The ball flew into the river, and, as it was swept
away to the sea, the Princess and all her maidens screamed aloud.

Their cries awoke Odysseus, as he lay asleep in his bed of leaves.

"I must be near the houses of men," he said; "those are the cries of girls at play."

With that he crept out from the shelter of the olive-trees. He had no clothes, for he had thrown
them all into the sea before he began his terrible swim for life. But he broke off some leafy
branches and held them round him, and walked down to where Nausicaa and her maidens were.

Like a wild man of the woods he looked, and when they saw him coming the girls shrieked and
ran away. Some of them hid behind the rocks on the shore, and some ran out to the shoals of
yellow sand that jutted into the sea.

But although his face was marred with the sea-foam that had crusted on it, and he looked a
terrible, fierce, great creature, Nausicaa was too brave to run away.

Shaking she stood there, and watched him as he came forward, and stood still a little way off.
Then Odysseus spoke to her, gently and kindly, that he might take away her fear.

He told her of his shipwreck, and begged her to show him the way to the town, and give him
some old garment, or any old wrap in which she had brought the linen, so that he might have
something besides leaves with which to cover himself.

"I have never seen any maiden half so beautiful as thou art," he said. "Have pity on me, and
may the gods grant thee all thy heart's desire."

Then said Nausicaa: "Thou seemest no evil man, stranger, and I will gladly give thee clothing
and show thee the way to town. This is the land of the Phæacians, and my father is the King."

To her maidens then she called:

"Why do ye run away at the sight of a man? Dost thou take him for an enemy? He is only a poor
shipwrecked man. Come, give him food and drink, and fetch him clothing."

The maidens came back from their hiding-places, and fetched some of the garments of Nausicaa's
brothers which they had brought to wash, and laid them beside Odysseus.

Odysseus gratefully took the clothes away, and went off to the river. There he plunged into
the clear water, and washed the salt crust from off his face and limbs and body, and the crusted
foam from his hair. Then he put on the beautiful garments that belonged to one of the Princes,
and walked down to the shore where Nausicaa and her maidens were waiting.

So tall and handsome and strong did Odysseus look, with his hair curling like hyacinth flowers
around his head, that Nausicaa said to her maidens: "This man, who seemed to us so dreadful
so short a time ago, now looks like a god. I would that my husband, if ever I have one, should
be as he."

Then she and her maidens brought him food and wine, and he ate hungrily, for it was many days
since he had eaten.

When he had finished, they packed the linen into the wagon, and yoked the mules, and Nausicaa
climbed into her place.

"So long as we are passing through the fields," she said to Odysseus, "follow behind with my
maidens, and I will lead the way. But when we come near the town with its high walls and towers,
and harbors full of ships, the rough sailors will stare and say, 'Hath Nausicaa gone to find
herself a husband because she scorns the men of Phæacia who would wed her? Hath she picked
up a shipwrecked stranger, or is this one of the gods who has come to make her his wife?' Therefore
come not with us, I pray thee, for the sailors to jest at. There is a fair poplar grove near
the city, with a meadow lying round it. Sit there until thou thinkest that we have had time
to reach the palace. Then seek the palace--any child can show thee the way--and when thou art
come to the outer court pass quickly into the room where my mother sits. Thou wilt find her
weaving yarn of sea-purple stain by the light of the fire. She will be leaning her head back
against a pillar, and her maidens will be standing round her. My father's throne is close to
hers, but pass him by, and cast thyself at my mother's knees. If she feels kindly towards thee
and is sorry for thee, then my father is sure to help thee to get safely back to thine own land."

Then Nausicaa smote her mules with the whip, and they trotted quickly off, and soon left behind
them the silver river with its whispering reeds, and the beach with its yellow sand.

Odysseus and the maidens followed the wagon, and just as the sun was setting they reached the
poplar grove in the meadow.

There Odysseus stayed until Nausicaa should have had time to reach the palace. When she got
there, she stopped at the gateway, and her brothers came out and lifted down the linen, and
unharnessed the mules. Nausicaa went up to her room, and her old nurse kindled a fire for her
and got ready her supper.

When Odysseus thought it was time to follow, he went to the city. He marveled at the great
walls and at the many gallant ships in the harbors. But when he reached the King's palace,
he wondered still more. Its walls were of brass, so that from without, when the doors stood
open, it looked as if the sun or moon were shining within. A frieze of blue ran round the walls.
All the doors were made of gold, the doorposts were of silver, the thresholds of brass, and
the hook of the door was of gold. In the halls were golden figures of animals, and of men who
held in their hands lighted torches. Outside the courtyard was a great garden filled with blossoming
pear-trees and pomegranates, and apple-trees with shining fruit, and figs, and olives. All
the year round there was fruit in that garden. There were grapes in blossom, and grapes purple
and ready to eat, and there were great masses of snowy pear-blossom, and pink apple-blossom,
and golden ripe pears, and rosy apples.

At all of those wonders Odysseus stood and gazed, but it was not for long; for he hastened
through the halls to where the Queen sat in the firelight, spinning her purple yarn. He fell
at her knees, and silence came on all those in the room when they looked at him, so brave and
so handsome did he seem.

"Through many and great troubles have I come hither, Queen," said he; "speed, I pray you, my
parting right quickly, that I may come to mine own country. Too long have I suffered great
sorrows far away from my own friends."

Then he sat down amongst the ashes by the fire, and for a little space no one spoke.

At last a wise old courtier said to the King: "Truly it is not right that this stranger should
sit in the ashes by the fire. Bid him arise, and give him meat and drink."

At this the King took Odysseus by the hand and asked him to rise. He made one of his sons give
up his silver inlaid chair, and bade his servants fetch a silver basin and a golden ewer that
Odysseus might wash his hands. All kinds of dainties to eat and drink he also made them bring,
and the lords and the courtiers who were there feasted along with Odysseus, until it was time
for them to go to their own homes.

Before they went the King promised Odysseus a safe convoy back to his own land.

When he was left alone with the King and Queen, the latter said to him: "Tell us who thou art.
I myself made the clothing that thou wearest. From whence didst thou get it?"

Then Odysseus told her of his imprisonment in the island of Calypso, of his escape, of the
terrible storm that shattered his raft, and of how at length he reached the shore and met with
Nausicaa.

"It was wrong of my daughter not to bring thee to the palace when she came with her maids,"
said the King.

But Odysseus told him why it was that Nausicaa had bade him stay behind.

"Be not vexed with this blameless maiden," he said. "Truly she is the sweetest and the fairest
maiden I ever saw."

Then Odysseus went to the bed that the servants had prepared for him. They had spread fair
purple blankets over it, and when it was ready they stood beside it with their torches blazing,
golden and red.

"Up now, stranger, get thee to sleep," said they. "Thy bed is made."

Sleep was very sweet to Odysseus that night as he lay in the soft bed with warm blankets over
him. He was no longer tossed and beaten by angry seas, no longer wet and cold and hungry. The
roar of furious waves did not beat in his ears, for all was still in the great halls where
the flickering firelight played on the frieze of blue, and turned the brass walls into gold.

Next day the King gave a great entertainment for Odysseus. There were boxing and wrestling
and leaping and running, and in all of these the brothers of Nausicaa were better than all
others who tried.

But when they came to throw the weight, and begged Odysseus to try, he cast a stone heavier
than all others, far beyond where the Phæacians had thrown.

That night there was feasting in the royal halls, and the King's minstrels played and sang
songs of the taking of Troy, and of the bravery of the great Odysseus. And Odysseus listened
until his heart could bear no more, and tears trickled down his cheeks. Only the King saw him
weep. He wondered much why Odysseus wept, and at last he asked him.

So Odysseus told the King his name, and the whole story of his adventures since he had sailed
away from Troyland.

Then the King and Queen and their courtiers gave rich gifts to Odysseus. A beautiful silver-studded
sword was the King's gift to him.

Nausicaa gave him nothing, but she stood and gazed at him in his purple robes and felt more
sure than ever that he was the handsomest and the greatest hero she had ever seen.

"Farewell, stranger," she said to him when the hour came for her to go to bed, for she knew
she would not see him on the morrow. "Farewell, stranger. Sometimes think of me when thou art
in thine own land."

Then said Odysseus: "All the days of my life I shall remember thee, Nausicaa, for thou hast
given me my life."

Next day a company of the Phæacians went down to a ship that lay by the seashore, and with
them went Odysseus. They carried the treasures that had been given to him and put them on board,
and spread a rug on the deck for him. There Odysseus lay down, and as soon as the splash of
the oars in the water and the rush and gush of the water from the bow of the boat told him
that the ship was sailing speedily to his dear land of Ithaca, he fell into a sound sleep.
Onward went the ship, so swiftly that not even a hawk flying after its prey could have kept
pace with her. When the bright morning stars arose, they were close to Ithaca. The sailors
quickly ran their vessel ashore and gently carried the sleeping Odysseus, wrapped round in
his rug of bright purple, to where a great olive-tree bent its gray leaves over the sand. They
laid him under the tree, put his treasures beside him, and left him, still heavy with slumber.
Then they climbed into their ship and sailed away.

While Odysseus slept the goddess Athene shed a thick mist round him. When he awoke, the sheltering
heavens, the long paths, and the trees in bloom all looked strange to him when seen through
the grayness of the mist.

"Woe is me!" he groaned. "The Phæacians promised to bring me to Ithaca, but they have brought
me to a land of strangers, who will surely attack me and steal my treasures."

But while he was wondering what he should do, the goddess Athene came to him. She was tall
and fair and noble to look upon, and she smiled upon Odysseus with her kind gray eyes.

Under the olive-tree she sat down beside him, and told him all that had happened in Ithaca
while he was away, and all that he must do to win back his kingdom and his Queen.

THE ARGONAUTS

ADAPTED BY MARY MACGREGOR

I

HOW THE CENTAUR TRAINED THE HEROES

Now I have a tale to tell of heroes who sailed away into a distant land, to win themselves
renown for ever in the adventures of the Golden Fleece.

And what was the Golden Fleece?

It was the fleece of the wondrous ram who bore a boy called Phrixus and a girl called Helle
across the sea; and the old Greeks said that it hung nailed to a beech-tree in the War-god's wood.

For when a famine came upon the land, their cruel stepmother wished to kill Phrixus and Helle,
that her own children might reign.

She said Phrixus and Helle must be sacrificed on an altar, to turn away the anger of the gods,
who sent the famine.

And Phrixus married the King's daughter there, and offered the ram in sacrifice, and then it
was that the ram's fleece was nailed to a beech in the wood of the War-god. And a fierce and
lawless stepbrother drove Æson out of Iolcos by the sea, and took the kingdom to himself and
ruled over it. This boy shall not cross the river again till he has become a glory to you and
to your house." And Cheiron praised them all, each as he deserved.

While the venison was cooking, they bathed in the snow-torrent and washed away the dust.

And he learned to wrestle, to box and to hunt, and to play upon the harp. Next he learned to
ride, for old Cheiron used to mount him on his back.

II

HOW JASON LOST HIS SANDAL

And ten years came and went, and Jason was grown to be a mighty man. Then promise me two things
before you go! Then he leapt down the mountain, to take his fortune like a man.

He went down through the thickets and across the downs of thyme, till he came to the vineyard
walls, and the olives in the glen. And among the olives roared the river, foaming with a summer
flood.

And on the bank of the river sat a woman, all wrinkled, gray and old. Her head shook with old
age, and her hands shook on her knees.

When she saw Jason, she spoke, whining, "Who will carry me across the flood?"

But Jason, heeding her not, went towards the waters.

The old woman whined again, "I am weak and old, fair youth. For Hera's sake, the Queen of the
Immortals, carry me over the torrent."

Jason was going to answer her scornfully, when Cheiron's words, "Speak harshly to no soul whom
you may meet," came to his mind. "Good news, good father, both for you and me. For that very
end, to take his kingdom, I came into the town."

Then he strode on toward the palace of Pelias his uncle, while all the people wondered at the
stranger. "For," said he, "I have but three daughters, and no son to be my heir. You shall
marry whichsoever of my daughters you shall choose.

But soon he looked at Pelias, and when he saw that he still wept, he said, "Why do you look
so sad, my uncle?" "One thing there is," said Pelias, "on which I need your advice, for, though
you are young, I see in you a wisdom beyond your years.

At that a little smile came across the lips of Pelias, and a flash of wicked joy into his eyes.
I have not harmed you. You will go, and that gladly, for you have a hero's heart within you,
and the love of glory."

So they both went and lay down to sleep. But Jason could not sleep for thinking how he was
to win the Golden Fleece. Sometimes Phrixus seemed to call him in a thin voice, faint and low,
as if it came from far across the sea.

All the city came out to meet them, and the men were never tired with looking at their heights
and their beauty and the glitter of their arms.

But the women sighed over them and whispered, "Alas, they are all going to their death!"

Then the heroes felled the mountain pines and shaped them with the axe, and Argus the famed
shipbuilder taught them to build a galley, the first long ship which ever sailed the seas.
They named her Argo, after Argus the shipbuilder, and worked at her all day long.

But Jason went away into a far-off land, till he found Orpheus the prince of minstrels, where
he dwelt in his cave. And now must I go out again, to the ends of all the earth, far away into
the misty darkness? But a friend's demand must be obeyed."

So Orpheus rose up sighing, and took his harp. He led Jason to the holy oak, and he bade him
cut down a bough and sacrifice to Hera.

Then Orpheus took his harp and began his magic song.

And they stored her well with food and water, and settled themselves each man to his oar, keeping
time to the harp of Orpheus.

So Jason was chosen captain, and each hero vowed to stand by him faithfully in the adventure
of the Golden Fleece.

They sailed onward and northward to Pelion. And their hearts yearned for the dear old mountain,
as they thought of the days gone by, of the sports of their boyhood, and their hunting, and
their lessons in the cave beneath the cliff.

Then, as Cheiron saw them, he leapt up and welcomed them every one, and set a feast of venison
before them. And as he sang, his voice rose from the cave above the crags, and through the
tree-tops. The trees bowed their heads when they heard it, and the forest beasts crept close
to listen, and the birds forsook their nests and hovered near. And old Cheiron clapped his
hands together and beat his hoofs upon the ground, for wonder at that magic song.

Then the helmsman cheered the heroes, and they shouted, while the oars bent beneath their strokes
as they rushed between those toppling ice-crags.

But Jason cheered the heroes, for his heart was high and bold, and he said, "I will go alone
to Aietes, and win him with soft words. Better so than to go altogether and to come to blows
at once."

Sternly Aietes looked at the heroes, and sternly he spoke and loud, "Who are you, and what
want you here that you come to our shore? Know this is my kingdom and these are my people who
serve me. Never yet grew they tired in battle, and well they know how to face a foe."

"We are no lawless men.

"If you will fight, then many a man must die.

The heroes sat dumb with sorrow, for there was no facing the thousands of King Aietes' men
and the fearful chance of war. And the lad crept forward, among the beds of reeds, till he
came to where Jason kept ward on shore, leaning upon his lance, full of thought.

And Medeia said slowly, "Why should you die? I have an ointment here. I made it from the magic
ice-flower. Anoint yourself with that, and you shall have in you the strength of seven, and
anoint your shield with it, and neither fire nor sword shall harm you.

The heroes grew pale with fear for him, but Aietes laughed an angry laugh.

Then Jason snatched off his helmet and hurled it into the thickest of the throng.

Then the heroes rose and shouted, and Jason cried to the King, "Lead me to the Golden Fleece
this moment before the sun goes down."

Now the heroes went marching toward their ship, growling, like lions cheated of their prey.
"Let us go together to the grove and take the fleece by force," they said. But Jason held them
back, while he praised them for brave heroes, for he hoped for Medeia's help.

And after a time she came trembling, and wept a long while before she spoke. At last she said,
"I must die, for my father has found out that I have helped you."

But all the heroes cried, "If you die we die with you, for without you we cannot win the fleece,
and home we will never go without it."

"You need not die," said Jason to the witch-maiden. "Flee home with us across the sea. "Must
I leave my home and my people?" she sobbed.

But Medeia calmed them and said, "Orpheus shall go with Jason, and take his magic harp."

And Orpheus laughed for joy and clapped his hands, because the choice had fallen on him.

So at midnight they went up the bank and found Medeia, and she brought them to a thicket beside
the War-god's gate. On and on, beneath the dewy darkness, they fled swiftly down the swirling
stream, on and on till they heard the merry music of the surge.

V

HOW THE ARGONAUTS REACHED HOME

So the heroes fled away in haste, but Aietes manned his fleet and followed them. When Aietes
came to the place he stopped a long while and bewailed his son, and took him up and went home.

So the heroes escaped for a time, but Zeus saw that evil deed, and out of the heavens he sent
a storm and swept the Argo far from her course. And at last she struck on a shoal, and the
waves rolled over her and through her, and the heroes lost all hope of life.

Then out spoke the magic bough, which stood upon the Argo's prow, "For your guilt, you must
sail a weary way to where Circe, Medeia's sister, dwells among the islands of the West; she
shall cleanse you of your guilt."

Whither they went I cannot tell, nor how they came to Circe's isle, but at last they reached
the fairy island of the West. I will send you food and wine, but your ship must not stay here,
for she is black with your wickedness."

And the heroes prayed, but in vain, and cried, "Cleanse us from our guilt!" but she sent them
away and said, "Go eastward, that you may be cleansed, and after that you may go home."

Slowly and wearily they sailed on, till one summer's eve they came to a flowery island, and
as they neared it they heard sweet songs.

Medeia started when she heard, and cried, "Beware, O heroes, for here are the rocks of the Sirens.

Now they could see the Sirens. Three fair maidens, sitting on the beach, beneath a rock red
in the setting sun.

Slowly they sung and sleepily, and as the heroes listened the oars fell from their hands, and
their heads dropped, and they closed their heavy eyes, and all their toil seemed foolishness,
and they thought of their renown no more.

And Orpheus sang till his voice drowned the song of the Sirens, and the heroes caught their
oars again and cried, "We will be men, and we will dare and suffer to the last."

But when the Sirens saw that they were conquered, they shrieked for envy and rage and leapt
into the sea, and were changed into rocks.

Then, as the Argonauts rowed on, they came to a fearful whirlpool, and they could neither go
back nor forward, for the waves caught them and spun them round and round. While they struggled
in the whirlpool, they saw near them on the other side of the strait a rock stand in the water--a
rock smooth and slippery, and half way up a misty cave.

When Orpheus saw the rock he groaned. "Little will it help us," he cried, "to escape the jaws
of the whirlpool. For in that cave lives a sea-hag, and from her cave she fishes for all things
that pass by, and never ship's crew boasted that they came safe past her rock."

Then out of the depths came Thetis, the silver-footed bride of one of the heroes.

When he saw the Argo and her crew he came toward them, more swiftly than the swiftest horse,
and he shouted to them, "You are pirates, you are robbers! If you land you shall die the death."

Then the heroes lay on their oars in fear, but Medeia spoke: "I know this giant. I will find
out where the nail is placed, and when I have got it into my hands you shall water your ship
in peace."

When he saw the maiden he stopped. And she looked boldly up into his face and sang a magic
song, and she held up a flash of crystal and said, "I am Medeia, the witch-maiden.

At the next island they went ashore and offered sacrifices, and Orpheus purged them from their
guilt.

Then his father clung to him like a child, and wept, and would not let him go, and cried, "Promise
never to leave me till I die."

And Jason turned to his uncle Pelias, "Now give me up the kingdom and fulfil your promise,
as I have fulfilled mine." And his uncle gave him his kingdom.

So Jason stayed at Iolcos by the sea.

THESEUS

ADAPTED BY MARY MACGREGOR

I

HOW THESEUS LIFTED THE STONE

Once upon a time there was a Princess called Aithra.

Then she sighed and said, "The day may come when you will be a stronger man than lives in all
the land."

And Theseus said, "Yes, this is where I was born and bred."

And she asked, "Do you see the land beyond?"

And the lad answered, "Yes, that is Attica, where the Athenian people live!"

"That is a fair land and large, Theseus, my son, and it looks towards the sunny south. There
the hills are sweet with thyme, and the meadows with violet, and the nightingales sing all
day in the thickets. There are twelve towns well peopled, the homes of an ancient race. Then
she kissed Theseus and wept over him, and went into the temple, and Theseus saw her no more.
I will win honor, and do such deeds that Ægeus shall be proud of me though he had fifty other
sons."

"I will go by land and into the mountains, and so round to Athens. Perhaps there I may hear
of brave adventures, and do something which shall win my father's love."

So Theseus went by land and away into the mountains, with his father's sword upon his thigh.
Come hither and let me feast upon you. It is of no use to run away, for these glens in the
mountain make so cunning a web, that through it no man can find his way home."

Still Theseus came steadily on, and he asked, "And what is your name, bold spider, and where
are your spider's fangs?"

The strange man laughed again. "With this I pound all proud flies," he said. And thrice Theseus
sprang upright after the blow, and he stabbed at the Club-bearer with his sword, but the loose
folds of the bear-skin saved him. He sleeps among the kites and crows, but I have brought away
his bear-skin and his club."

They leapt across the pool, and came to him, and called the shepherds back.

Then the shepherds brought him kids' flesh and wine, and the nymphs brought him honey from
the rocks.

And Theseus ate and drank with them, and they begged him to stay, but he would not.

"I have a great work to do;" he said, "I must go towards Athens."

But Theseus went on swiftly, for his heart burned to meet that cruel robber. And in a pine-wood
at last he met him, where the road ran between high rocks.

Clearing the land of monsters as he went, Theseus saw at last the plain of Athens before him.

And as he went up through Athens all the people ran out to see him, for his fame had gone before
him, and every one knew of his mighty deeds, and they shouted, "Here comes the hero!"

But Theseus went on sadly and steadfastly, for his heart yearned after his father. He went
up the holy stairs to the spot where the palace of Ægeus stood.

And when Ægeus heard of Theseus he turned pale and again red, and rose from his seat trembling,
while Medeia, the witch, watched him like a snake.

"What is Theseus to you?" she asked.

But he said hastily, "Do you not know who this Theseus is? The hero who has cleared the country
from all monsters. I must go out and welcome him." I will try him before I discover myself."
And he bowed low before Ægeus and said, "I have delivered the King's realm from many monsters,
therefore I am come to ask a reward of the King."

Old Ægeus looked on him and loved him, but he only sighed and said, "It is little that I can
give you, noble lad, and nothing that is worthy of you."

"All I ask," said Theseus, "is to eat and drink at your table."

Then he rose and said, "The wine is rich, and the wine-bearer fair. Let her pledge me first
herself in the cup that the wine may be sweeter."

Then Medeia shrieked and dashed the cup to the ground and fled, for there was strong poison
in that wine.

Ægeus cried, "What have you done?"

But Theseus said, "I have rid the land of one enchantment, now I will rid it of one more."

And he came close to Ægeus and drew from his cloak the sword and the sandals, and said the
words which his mother bade him, "The stone is lifted."

Then Ægeus turned to all the people and cried, "Behold my son!"

But the cousins were angry and drew their swords against Theseus. Twenty against one they fought,
and yet Theseus beat them all, till at last he was left alone in the palace with his new-found
father. And he asked the reason of the silence and the sadness, but no one would answer him a word.

Then he went to his father and asked him, but Ægeus turned away his face and wept. Tell me,
then, why you come?"

"To fetch the tribute which King Ægeus promised to King Minos.

Then Theseus groaned inwardly and said, "I will go myself with these youths and maidens, and
kill King Minos upon his royal throne." I myself will be one of the seven."

And the herald asked in wonder, "Fair youth, do you know whither you are going?"

Then their hearts were comforted a little, but they wept as they went on board; and the cliffs
rang with the voice of their weeping.

III

HOW THESEUS SLEW THE MINOTAUR

And the ship sailed slowly on, till at last it reached the land of Crete, and Theseus stood
before King Minos, and they looked each other in the face.

Minos bade take the youths and the maidens to prison, and cast them to the Minotaur one by one.

Then Theseus cried, "A boon, O Minos! Let me be thrown first to the monster. For I came hither,
for that very purpose, of my own will and not by lot."

"Who art thou, thou brave youth?" asked the King.

"I am the son of Ægeus, the King of Athens, and I am come here to end the yearly tribute."

And they led Theseus away into the prison, with the other youths and maidens.

"And will you kill the Minotaur? How then will you do it?" asked Ariadne in wonder.

"I know not, nor do I care, but he must be strong if he be too strong for me," said Theseus.
Only promise me that if you escape you will take me home with you."

Then Theseus laughed and said, "Am I not safe enough now?" And he hid his sword, and rolled
up the clue in his hand, and then he fell down before Ariadne and kissed her hands and her
feet, while she wept over him a long while.

And when he saw the Minotaur, he stopped a while, for he had never seen so strange a monster.
When he saw Theseus, he roared and put his head down and rushed right at him.

But that fair Ariadne never came to Athens with her husband.

Now Ægeus his father sat on the cliffs and watched day after day, and strained his old eyes
across the waters to see the ship afar. And when he saw the black sail he gave up Theseus for
dead, and in his grief he fell into the sea and was drowned, and it is called the Ægean Sea
to this day.

HERCULES

ADAPTED BY THOMAS CARTWRIGHT

I

THE TWELVE LABORS OF HERCULES

Hercules, the hero of strength and courage, was the son of Jupiter and Alcmene. His life was
one long series of wonders.

As soon as he was born, Juno, who hated Alcmene with an exceeding great hatred, went to the
Fates and begged them to make the life of the newly-born babe hard and perilous.

The Fates were three, namely, Clotho who spun the thread of life, Lachesis who settled the
lot of gods and mortals in life, and Atropos who cut the thread of life spun by Clotho.

When once the Fates had decided what the lot of any being, whether god or man, was to be, Jupiter
himself could not alter their decision.

It was to these fateful three, then, that Juno made her prayer concerning the infant Hercules.
She could not, however, prevent him from having an honorable career, since it was written that
he should triumph over all dangers and difficulties that might beset him.

All that was conceded to her was that Hercules should be put under the dominion of Eurystheus,
King of Thebes, his eldest brother, a harsh and pitiless man. This only half satisfied the
hatred of Juno, but it made the life of Hercules exceedingly bitter.

In fact, Hercules was but a child, when Juno sent two enormous serpents against him. These
serpents, gliding into his cradle, were on the point of biting the child when he, with his
own hands, seized them and strangled the life out of their slimy bodies.

Having grown up to man's estate, Hercules did many mighty deeds of valor that need not be recounted
here. But the hatred of Juno always pursued him. At length, when he had been married several
years, she made him mad and impelled him in his madness to kill his own beloved children!

When he came again to his sober senses, and learnt that he was the murderer of his own offspring
he was filled with horror, and betook himself into exile so that he might hide his face from
his fellow men. After a time he went to the oracle at Delphi to ask what he should do in atonement
for his dreadful deed.

He was ordered to serve his brother Eurystheus--who, by the help of Juno, had robbed him of
his kingdom--for twelve years. After this he was to become one of the Immortals. Eurystheus
feared that Hercules might use his great strength and courage against him, in punishment for
the evil that he had done. He therefore resolved to banish him and to impose such tasks upon
him as must certainly bring about his destruction. Hence arose the famous twelve labors of
Hercules.

Eurystheus first set Hercules to keep his sheep at Nemea and to kill the lion that ofttimes
carried off the sheep, and sometimes the shepherd also.

The man-eater lurked in a wood that was hard by the sheep-run. Hercules would not wait to be
attacked by him. Arming himself with a heavy club and with a bow and arrows, he went in search
of the lion's lair and soon found it.

Finding that arrows and club made no impression upon the thick skin of the lion, the hero was
constrained to trust entirely to his own thews and sinews. Seizing the lion with both hands,
he put forth all his mighty strength and strangled the beast just as he had strangled the serpents
in his cradle. Then, having despoiled the dead man-eater of his skin, Hercules henceforth wore
this trophy as a garment, and as a shield and buckler.

In those days, there was in Greece a monstrous serpent known as the Hydra of Lerna, because
it haunted a marsh of that name whence it issued in search of prey. As his second labor, Hercules
was sent to slay this creature.

This reptile had nine heads of which the midmost was immortal. When Hercules struck off one
of these heads with his club, two others at once appeared in its place. By the help of his
servant, Hercules burned off the nine heads, and buried the immortal one beneath a huge rock.

The blood of the Hydra was a poison so subtle that Hercules, by dipping the points of his arrows
therein, made them so deadly that no mortal could hope to recover from a wound inflicted by
them. We shall see later that Hercules himself died from the poison of one of these self-same
arrows.

The third labor imposed upon Hercules by Eurystheus was the capture of the Arcadian Stag. This
remarkable beast had brazen feet and antlers of solid gold. Hercules was to carry the stag
alive to Eurystheus.

It proved no easy task to do this. The stag was so fleet of foot that no one had been able
to approach it. For more than a year, over hill and dale, Hercules pursued the beast without
ever finding a chance of capturing it without killing it.

At length he shot at it and wounded it with an arrow--not, you may be sure, with one of the
poisoned ones--and, having caught it thus wounded, he carried it on his shoulder to his brother
and thus completed the third of his labors.

In the neighborhood of Mount Erymanthus, in Arcadia, there lived, in those far-off days, a
savage boar that was in the habit of sallying forth from his lair and laying waste the country
round about, nor had any man been able to capture or restrain him. To free the country from
the ravages of this monster was the fourth labor of Hercules.

Having tracked the animal to his lurking place after chasing him through the deep snow, Hercules
caught him in a net and bore him away in triumph on his shoulders to the feet of the amazed
Eurystheus.

Augeas, King of Elis, in Greece, not far from Mount Olympus, owned a herd of oxen 3,000 in
number. They were stabled in stables that had not been cleaned out for thirty years. The stench
was terrible and greatly troubled the health of the land. Eurystheus set Hercules the task
of cleaning out these Augean stables in a single day!

But the wit of the hero was equal to the occasion. With his great strength he diverted the
flow of two rivers that ran their courses near the stables and made them flow right through
the stables themselves, and lo! the nuisance that had been growing for thirty years was no
more! Such was the fifth labor of Hercules.

On an island in a lake near Stymphalus, in Arcadia, there nested in those days some remarkable
and terrible birds--remarkable because their claws, wings and beaks were brazen, and terrible
because they fed on human flesh and attacked with their terrible beaks and claws all who came
near the lake. To kill these dreadful birds was the sixth labor.

Minerva supplied Hercules with a brazen rattle with which he roused the birds from their nests,
and then slew them with his poisoned arrows while they were on the wing.

This victory made Hercules popular throughout the whole of Greece, and Eurystheus saw that
nothing he could devise was too hard for the hero to accomplish.

The seventh labor was to capture a mad bull that the Sea-god Neptune had let loose in the island
of Crete, of which island Minos was at that time King.

This ferocious creature breathed out from his nostrils a whirlwind of flaming fire. But Hercules
was, as you no doubt have guessed, too much for the brazen bull.

He not only caught the monster, but tamed him, and bore him aloft on his shoulders, into the
presence of the affrighted Eurystheus, who was at a loss to find a task impossible for Hercules
to perform.

The taking of the mares of Diomedes was the eighth labor. These horses were not ordinary horses,
living on corn. They were flesh eaters, and moreover, they devoured human beings, and so were
hateful to mankind.

On this occasion Hercules was not alone. He organised a hunt and, by the help of a few friends,
caught the horses and led them to Eurystheus. The scene of this labor was Thrace, an extensive
region lying between the Ægean Sea, the Euxine or Black Sea, and the Danube.

Seizing the girdle of Hippolyte was the next feat set for the hero. This labor was due to the
desire of the daughter of Eurystheus for the girdle of Hippolyte, Queen of the Amazons--a tribe
of female warriors. It is said that the girls had their right breasts cut off in order that
they might use the bow with greater ease in battle! This, indeed, is the meaning of the term
Amazon, which signifies "breastless."

After a troublesome journey Hercules arrived safely at the Court of Hippolyte, who received
him kindly; and this labor might, perchance, have been a bloodless one had not his old enemy
Juno stirred up the female warriors against him.

In the fight that followed, Hercules killed Hippolyte--a feat scarcely to be proud of--and
carried off her girdle, and thus the vanity of the daughter of Eurystheus was gratified.

To capture the oxen of Geryon was the tenth labor of Hercules. In the person of Geryon we meet
another of those strange beings in which the makers of myths and fairy tales seem to revel.
Geryon was a three-bodied monster whose cattle were kept by a giant and a two-headed dog!

It is said that Hercules, on his way to the performance of this tenth labor, formed the Pillars
of Hercules--those two rocky steeps that guard the entrance to the Straits of Gibraltar, i.e.,
Calpa (Gibraltar) and Abyla (Ceuta)--by rending asunder the one mountain these two rocks are
said to have formed, although now they are eighteen miles apart.

Hercules slew the giant, the two-headed dog and Geryon himself, and in due course brought the
oxen to Eurystheus.

Sometime afterwards, Eurystheus, having heard rumors of a wonderful tree which, in some unknown
land, yielded golden apples, was moved with great greed to have some of this remarkable fruit.
Hence he commanded Hercules to make the quest of this tree his eleventh labor. The hero had
no notion where the tree grew, but he was bound by his bond to obey the King, so he set out
and after a time reached the kingdom of Atlas, King of Africa. He had been told that Atlas
could give him news of the tree.

I must tell you that King Atlas, having in the olden time helped the Titans in their wars against
the gods, was undergoing punishment for this offence, his penance being to hold up the starry
vault of heaven upon his shoulders. This means, perhaps, that in the kingdom of Atlas there
were some mountains so high that their summits seemed to touch the sky.

Hercules offered to relieve Atlas of his load for a time, if he would but tell him where the
famous tree was, upon which grew the golden fruit. Atlas consented, and for some days Hercules
supported the earth and the starry vault of heaven upon his shoulders.

Then Atlas opened the gate of the Garden of the Hesperides to Hercules. These Hesperides were
none other than the three daughters of Atlas, and it was their duty, in which they were helped
by a dragon, to guard the golden apples.

Hercules killed the dragon and carried off the apples, but they were afterwards restored to
their place by Minerva.

Cerberus, as perhaps you know, was the triple-headed dog that guarded the entrance to the nether
world. To bring up this three-headed monster from the land of the dead was the last of the
twelve labors. It was also the hardest.

Pluto, the god of the nether world, told Hercules he might carry off the dog if he could take
him without using club or spear--never dreaming that the hero could perform such a difficult feat.

Hercules penetrated to the entrance of Pluto's gloomy regions, and, putting forth his strength
succeeded, not only in seizing Cerberus, but also in carrying him to Eurystheus, and so brought
the twelve labors to an end, and was released from his servitude to his cruel brother.

These exploits of strength and endurance do not by any means complete the tale of the wonderful
doings of the great Greek hero. He continued his deeds of daring to the end of his life.

One of the last of his exploits was to kill the eagle that daily devoured the liver of Prometheus,
whose story is both curious and interesting.

He is said to have been the great friend of mankind, and was chained to a rock on Mount Caucasus
because he stole fire from heaven and gave it as a gift to the sons of man.

While in chains an eagle was sent by Jupiter daily to feed on Prometheus's liver, which Jupiter
made to grow again each night. From this continuous torture he was released by Hercules, who
slew the eagle and burst asunder the bonds of this friend of man.

II

HERCULES IN THE NETHER WORLD

Theseus and Pirithous were two Athenians, who, after having been at enmity for a long time
at last became the very best of friends. They, like Hercules, had passed their youth in doing
doughty deeds for the benefit of mankind, and their fame had spread abroad throughout the land
of Greece. This did not prevent them from forming a very foolish project. They actually planned
to go down to Hades and carry off Pluto's wife, Proserpina, whom Pirithous himself wished to marry.

This rashness brought about their ruin, for they were seized by Pluto and chained to a rock.
All this Hercules, who was the friend of Theseus, learnt while on one of his journeys, and
he resolved to rescue Theseus from his eternal punishment.

As for Pirithous, the prime mover in the attempted outrage, him Hercules meant to leave to
his fate.

Hercules had been warned to take a black dog to sacrifice to Hecate and a cake to mollify Cerberus,
as was usual; but he would not listen to such tales and meant to force his way to Theseus.
When he found himself face to face with Cerberus he seized him, threw him down and chained
him with strong chains.

The next difficulty in the way was black and muddy Acheron, the first of the seven rivers that
ran round Hades, and formed a barrier between the living and the departed.

This river had not always run under the vaults of Hades. Formerly its course was upon the earth.
But when the Titans attempted to scale the heaven, this river had the ill luck to quench their
thirst, and Jupiter to punish even the waters of the river for abetting his enemies, turned
its course aside into the under world where its waves, slow-moving and filthy, lost themselves
in Styx, the largest of all the rivers of Hades, which ran round Pluto's gloomy kingdom no
less than nine times.

On reaching the banks of Styx, Hercules was surprised to see flying around him a crowd of disconsolate
spirits, whom Charon the Ferryman refused to row across Styx, because they could not pay him
his fee of an obol, a Greek coin worth about three cents of our money, which the Greeks were
accustomed to place in the mouths of their dead for the purpose, as they thought, of paying
Charon his ferry fee.

Fierce Charon frowned when he beheld Hercules for he feared his light boat of bark would sink
under his weight, it being only adapted for the light and airy spirits of the dead; but when
the son of Jupiter told him his name he was mollified and allowed the hero to take his place
at his side.

As soon as the boat had touched the shore, Hercules went towards the gloomy palace of Pluto
where he with difficulty, on account of the darkness, saw Pluto seated upon an ebony throne
by the side of his beloved Proserpina.

Pluto was not at all pleased to see the hero, as he hated the living and had interest only
in the shades of the dead. When Hercules announced himself, however, he gave him a permit to
go round his kingdom and, in addition, acceded to his prayer for the release of Theseus.

At the foot of Pluto's throne Hercules saw Death the Reaper. He was clothed in a black robe
spotted with stars and his fleshless hand held the sharp sickle with which he is said to cut
down mortals as the reaper cuts down corn.

Our hero was glad to escape from this dismal palace and as he did not know exactly where to
find Theseus he began to make the circuit of Hades. During his progress he saw the shades of
many people of whom, on earth, he had heard much talk.

He had been wandering about some time when, in a gloomy chamber, he saw three old sisters,
wan and worn, spinning by the feeble light of a lamp. They were the Fates, deities whose duty
it was to thread the days of all mortals who appeared on earth, were it but for an instant.

Clotho, the spinner of the thread of life, was the eldest of the three. She held in her hand
a distaff, wound with black and white woollen yarn, with which were sparingly intermixed strands
of silk and gold. The wool stood for the humdrum everyday life of man: the silk and gold marked
the days of mirth and gladness, always, alas! too few in number.

Lachesis, the second of the Fates, was quickly turning with her left hand a spindle, while
her right hand was leading a fine thread which the third sister, Atropos by name, used to cut
with a pair of sharp shears at the death of each mortal.

You may imagine how hard these three sisters worked when you remember that the thread of life
of every mortal had to pass through their fateful fingers. Hercules would have liked them to
tell him how long they had yet to spin for him, but they had no time to answer questions and
so the hero passed on.

Some steps farther he stopped before three venerable looking old men, seated upon a judgment
seat, judging, as it seemed, a man newly come to Pluto's kingdom.

They were Minos, Æacus and Rhadamanthus, the three judges of Hades, whose duty it was to punish
the guilty by casting them into a dismal gulf, Tartarus, whence none might ever emerge, and
to reward the innocent by transporting them to the Elysian Fields where delight followed delight
in endless pleasure.

These judges could never be mistaken because Themis, the Goddess of Justice, held in front
of them a pair of scales in which she weighed the actions of men. Their decrees were instantly
carried out by a pitiless goddess, Nemesis, or Vengeance by name, armed with a whip red with
the gore of her sinful victims.

III

BLACK TARTARUS AND THE ELYSIAN FIELDS

Immediately on quitting the presence of the three judges, Hercules saw them open out before
him an immense gulf whence arose thick clouds of black smoke. This smoke hid from view a river
of fire that rolled its fiery waves onwards with a deafening din.

Not far remote from this rolled Cocytus, another endless stream, fed by the tears of the wretches
doomed to Black Tartarus, in which place of eternal torment Hercules now found himself.

The rulers of these mournful regions were the Furies who, with unkempt hair and armed with
whips, tormented the condemned without mercy by showing them continually in mirrors the images
of their former crimes.

Into Tartarus were thrown, never to come out again, the shades or manes of traitors, ingrates,
perjurers, unnatural children, murderers and hypocrites who had during their lives pretended
to be upright and honorable in order to deceive the just.

But these wretches were not the only denizens of Black Tartarus. There were to be seen great
scoundrels who had startled the world with their frightful crimes. For these Pluto and the
Furies had invented special tortures.

Among the criminals so justly overtaken by the divine vengeance Hercules noticed Salmoneus,
whom he had formerly met upon earth. This madman, whose pride had overturned his reason, thought
himself to be a god equal to the Thunderer himself.

In order to imitate remotely the rolling of thunder, he used to be driven at night, over a
brazen bridge, in a chariot, whence he hurled lighted torches upon his unhappy slaves who were
crowded on the bridge and whom his guards knocked down in imitation of Jove's thunder-bolts.

Indignant at the pride and cruelty of the tyrant, Jupiter struck him with lightning in deadly
earnest and then cast him into the outer darkness of Tartarus, where he was for ever burning
without being consumed.

Sisyphus, the brother of Salmoneus, was no better than he. When on earth, he had been the terror
of Attica, where, as a brigand, he had robbed and murdered with relentless cruelty.

Theseus, whom Hercules was bent on freeing from his torment, had met and killed this robber-assassin,
and Jupiter, for his sins, decreed that the malefactor should continually be rolling up a hill
in Tartarus a heavy stone which, when with incredible pains he had brought nearly to the top,
always rolled back again, and he had to begin over and over again the heart-breaking ascent.

Some distance from Sisyphus Hercules came upon Tantalus, who, in the flesh, had been King of
Phrygia, but who now, weak from hunger and parched with thirst, was made to stand to his chin
in water with branches of tempting luscious fruit hanging ripe over his head. When he essayed
to drink the water it always went from him, and when he stretched out his hand to pluck the
fruit, back the branches sprang out of reach.

In addition an immense rock, hung over his head, threatened every moment to crush him.

It is said that Tantalus, when in the flesh, had betrayed the secrets of the gods and also
committed other great crimes. For this he was "tantalized" with food and drink, which, seeming
always to be within his reach, ever mocked his hopes by eluding his grasp.

The groans of a crowd of disheveled women next attracted the affrighted attention of Hercules.
They were forty-nine of the fifty daughters of Danaus, King of Argos, who, at the instigation
of their father, had killed their husbands because Danaus thought they were conspiring to depose
him.

One only of the fifty, to wit Hypermnestra, had the courage to disobey this unlawful command
and so saved the life of Lynceus, her husband, with whom she fled. Later on Lynceus returned
and slew the cruel King in battle.

To punish the forty-nine Danaides, Jupiter cast them into the outer darkness of Black Tartarus,
where they were ever engaged in the hopeless task of pouring water into a sieve. Hypermnestra,
on the contrary, was honored while alive, and also after her death, for loving goodness even
more than she loved her father.

Glutted with horror Hercules at length quitted gloomy Tartarus and beheld in front of him still
another river. This was Lethe. Whoso drank the waters of this river, which separated the place
of torment from the abode of the blest, lost memory of all that had been aforetime in his mind,
and so was no longer troubled by even the remembrance of human misery.

Across Lethe stretched the Elysian Fields where the shades of the blest dwelt in bliss without
alloy. An enchanting greenness made the sweet-smelling groves as pleasant to the eye as they
were to the sense of smell. Sunlit, yet never parched with torrid heat, everywhere their verdure
charmed the delighted eye, and all things conspired to make the shades of the good and wise,
who were privileged to dwell in these Elysian Fields, delightfully happy.

Hercules saw, in these shady regions of the blest, a crowd of kings, heroes and men and women
of lower degree who, while on earth, had loved and served their fellow men.

Having at length found and released Theseus, Hercules set out with him for the upper world.
The two left Hades by an ivory door, the key of which Pluto had confided to their care.

What awesome tales they had to recount to their wondering friends of the marvels of Black Tartarus
and of Radiant Elysium!

IV

THE TUNIC OF NESSUS THE CENTAUR

There abode in Thessaly, in the days of Hercules, a strange race of men who had the head and
arms of a man together with the body of a horse. They were called Centaurs, or Bull-Slayers.

One of them named Cheiron, famous for his knowledge of medicine, music and botany, had been
the teacher of Hercules. But many of them, although learned, were not good. Hercules and Theseus
had waged war on them and had killed many, so that their numbers were greatly lessened.

Having married Deianira, the daughter of a powerful King of Calydon, in Greece, Hercules was
traveling home with her when he came to the banks of a river and was at a loss how to cross
it. Seeing his perplexity, Nessus, one of the Centaurs, offered to take Deianira on his back
and carry her over the stream. This offer Hercules gladly accepted.

No sooner, however, did the crafty Centaur obtain possession of Deianira than he made off with
her, intending to have her as his own wife. You can easily imagine how angry this outrage made
Hercules. He shot one of his poisoned arrows with so much force that it went right through
the traitor Centaur, and wounded him even unto death.

But, before dying, Nessus had time to tell Deianira that if she wanted to keep Hercules always
true to her she had but to take his shirt, and, when her husband's love was waning, prevail
on him to wear it.

Deianira took the shirt, and shortly afterwards, being afraid that her husband was ceasing
to love her, she sent it to him as a present.

Now, you will remember that Hercules had shot through the shirt of Nessus one of his poisoned
arrows, and you will not be surprised to hear that some of the poison had remained in the shirt.
So when Hercules put it on, which he did immediately upon receiving it, he was seized with
frenzy and, in his madness, he uttered terrible cries and did dreadful deeds.

With his powerful hands he broke off huge pieces of rock, tore up pine-trees by their roots
and hurled them with resounding din into the valley.

He could not take off the fatal shirt, and as he tore off portions of it he tore, at the same
time, his quivering flesh.

The servant of Deianira who had carried him the fatal shirt, and who wished to solace him in
his pain, he seized as she approached him and flung headlong into the sea, where she was changed
into a rock that long, so runs the legend, kept its human form.

But at length the majesty and the courage of the hero asserted themselves, and, although still
in agony, his madness left him.

Calling to his side his friend Philoctetes, he wished to embrace him once more before dying;
but fearful lest he should, in so doing, infect his friend with the deadly poison that was
consuming him, he cried in his agony: "Alas, I am not even permitted to embrace thee!"

Then he gathered together the trees he had uprooted and made a huge funeral pyre, such as was
used by the ancients in burning their dead. Climbing to the top of the heap, he spread out
the skin of the Nemean lion, and, supporting himself upon his club, gave the signal for Philoctetes
to kindle the fire that was to reduce him to ashes.

In return for this service he gave Philoctetes a quiver full of those deadly arrows that had
been dipped in the blood of the Hydra of Lerna.

He further enjoined his friend to let no man know of his departure from life, to the intent
that the fear of his approach might prevent fresh monsters and new robbers from ravaging the earth.

Thus died Hercules, and after his death he was received as a god amongst the Immortals on Mount
Olympus, where he married Hebe, Jove's cupbearer. In his honor mortals were commanded to build
altars and to raise temples.

THE PERILOUS VOYAGE OF ÆNEAS

ADAPTED BY ALICE ZIMMEKN

Once upon a time, nearly three thousand years ago, the city of Troy in Asia Minor was at the
height of its prosperity. It was built on a fortified hill on the southern slopes of the Hellespont,
and encircled by strong walls that the gods had helped to build. Through their favor Troy became
so strong and powerful that she subdued many of the neighboring states and forced them to fight
for her and do her bidding. Thus it happened that when the Greeks came to Asia with an army
of 100,000 men, Troy was able to hold out against them for nine years, and in the tenth was
only taken by a trick.

In the "Iliad" of Homer you may read all about the quarrel between the Trojans and Greeks,
the fighting before Troy and the brave deeds done by Hector and Achilles, and many other heroes.
You will see there how the gods took part in the quarrel, and how Juno, who was the wife of
Jupiter and queen of heaven, hated Troy because Paris had given the golden apple to Venus as
the fairest among goddesses. Juno never forgave this insult to her beauty, and vowed that she
would not rest till the hated city was destroyed and its very name wiped from the face of the
earth. You shall now hear how she carried out her threat, and overwhelmed Æneas with disasters.

After a siege that lasted ten years Troy was taken at last by means of the wooden horse, which
the Trojans foolishly dragged into the city with their own hands. Inside it were hidden a number
of Greeks, who were thus carried into the heart of the enemy's city. The Trojans celebrated
the departure of the Greeks by feasting and drinking far into the night; but when at last they
retired to rest, the Greeks stole out of their hiding-place, and opened the gates to their
army, which had only pretended to withdraw. Before the Trojans had recovered their wits the
town was full of enemies, who threw blazing torches on the houses and killed every citizen
who fell into their hands.

Among the many noble princes who fought against the Greeks none was braver and handsomer than
Æneas. His mother was the goddess Venus, and his father a brave and powerful Prince named Anchises,
while Creusa, his wife, was one of King Priam's daughters. On that dreadful night, when the
Greeks were burning and killing in the very streets of Troy, Æneas lay sleeping in his palace
when there appeared to him a strange vision. He thought that Hector stood before him carrying
the images of the Trojan gods and bade him arise and leave the doomed city. "To you Troy entrusts
her gods and her fortunes. Take these images, and go forth beyond the seas, and with their
auspices found a new Troy on foreign shores."

Roused from his slumbers Æneas sprang up in haste, put on his armor and rushed into the fray.
He was joined by a few comrades, and together they made their way through the enemy, killing
all who blocked their path. But when they reached the royal palace and found that the Greeks
had already forced their way in and killed the aged man by his own hearth, Æneas remembered
his father and his wife and his little son Ascanius. Since he could not hope to save the city
he might at least take thought for his own kin. While he still hesitated whether to retire
or continue the fight, his goddess mother appeared and bade him go and succor his household.
"Your efforts to save the city are vain," she said. "The gods themselves make war on Troy.
Juno stands by the gate urging on the Greeks, Jupiter supplies them with hope and courage,
and Neptune is breaking down with his trident the walls he helped to raise. Fly, my son, fly.
I will bring you safely to your own threshold."

Guided by her protecting hand, Æneas came in safety to his palace, and bade his family prepare
in all haste for flight. But his father refused to stir a step. "Let me die here at the enemy's
hands," he implored. "Better thus than to go into exile in my old age. Do you go, my son, whither
the gods summon you, and leave me to my fate." In vain Æneas reasoned and pleaded, in vain
he refused to go without his father; neither prayers nor entreaties would move Anchises till
the gods sent him a sign. Suddenly the child's hair burst into flames. The father and mother
were terrified, but Anchises recognised the good omen, and prayed the gods to show whether
his interpretation was the true one. In answer there came a clap of thunder and a star flashed
across the sky and disappeared among the woods on Mount Ida. Then Anchises was sure that the
token was a true one. "Delay no more!" he cried. "I will accompany you, and go in hope wheresoever
the gods of my country shall lead me. This is a sign from heaven, and the gods, if it be their
will, may yet preserve our city."

"Come then, father!" cried Æneas joyfully. "Let me take you on my back, for your feeble limbs
would move too slowly for the present danger. You shall hold the images of the gods, since
it would be sacrilege for me to touch them with my blood-stained hands. Little Ascanius shall
take my hand, and Creusa will follow us closely."

He now ordered the servants to collect all the most valuable possessions, and bring them to
him at the temple of Ceres, just outside the city. Then he set out with father, wife and son,
and they groped their way through the city by the light of burning homesteads. Thus they passed
at last through the midst of the enemy, and reached the temple of Ceres. There, to his dismay,
Æneas missed Creusa. He rushed back to the city and made his way to his own house. He found
it in flames, and the enemy were sacking the ruins. Nowhere could he find a trace of his wife.
Wild with grief and anxiety he wandered at random through the city till suddenly he fancied
he saw Creusa. But it was her ghost, not her living self. She spoke to her distracted husband
and bade him grieve no more. "Think not," she said, "that this has befallen without the will
of the gods. The Fates have decided that Creusa shall not follow you to your new home. There
are long and weary wanderings before you, and you must traverse many stormy seas before you
come to the western land where the river Tiber pours its gentle stream through the fertile
pastures of Italy. There shall you find a kingdom and a royal bride. Cease then to mourn for
Creusa." Æneas tried to clasp her in his arms, but in vain, for he only grasped the empty air.
Then he understood that the gods desired him to go forth into the world alone.

While Æneas was seeking Creusa a group of Trojans who had escaped the enemy and the flames
had collected at the temple of Ceres, and he found them ready and willing to join him and follow
his fortunes. The first rays of the sun were touching the peaks of Ida when Aeneas and his
comrades turned their backs on the ill-fated city, and went towards the rising sun and the
new hope.

For several months Æneas and his little band of followers lived as refugees among the hills
of Ida, and their numbers grew as now one, now another, came to join them. All through the
winter they were hard at work cutting down trees and building ships, which were to carry them
across the seas. When spring came the fleet was ready, and the little band set sail. First
they merely crossed the Hellespont to Thrace, for Aeneas hoped to found a city here and revive
the name of Troy. But bad omens came to frighten the Trojans and drive them back to their ships.

They now took a southward course, and sailed on without stopping till they reached Delos, the
sacred isle of Apollo. Here Aeneas entered the temple and offered prayer to the lord of prophecy.
"Grant us a home, Apollo, grant us an abiding city. Preserve a second Troy for the scanty remnant
that escaped the swords of the Greeks and the wrath of cruel Achilles. Tell us whom to follow,
whither to turn, where to found our city."

His prayer was not offered in vain, for a voice spoke in answer. "Ye hardy sons of Dardanus,
the land that erst sent forth your ancestral race shall welcome you back to its fertile fields.
Go and seek your ancient mother. There shall the offspring of Æneas rule over all the lands,
and their children's children unto the furthest generations."

When he had heard this oracle, Anchises said, "In the middle of the sea lies an island called
Crete, which is sacred to Jupiter. There we shall find an older Mount Ida, and beside it the
cradle of our race. Thence, if tradition speaks truth, our great ancestor Teucrus set sail
for Asia and there he founded his kingdom, and named our mountain Ida. Let us steer our course
therefore to Crete, and if Jupiter be propitious, the third dawn will bring us to its shores."

Accordingly they set out again full of hope, and passed in and out again among the gleaming
islands of the Ægean, till at last they came to Crete. There they disembarked, and began to
build a city. The houses were rising, the citadel was almost ready, the fields were planted
and sown, and the young men were seeking wives, when suddenly the crops were stricken by a
blight and the men by a pestilence. Surely, they thought, this could not be the home promised
them by Apollo. In this distress Anchises bade his son return to Delos and implore the gods
to vouchsafe further counsel.

At night Æneas lay down to rest, troubled by many anxieties, when suddenly he was roused by
the moonlight streaming through the window and illuminating the images of the Trojan gods.
It seemed as though they opened their lips and spoke to him. "All that Apollo would have told
you at Delos, we may declare to you here, for he has given us a message to you. We followed
your arms after the burning of Troy, and traversed the ocean under your guidance, and we shall
raise your descendants to the stars and give dominion to their city. But do not seek it here.
These are not the shores that Apollo assigns you, nor may Crete be your abiding place. Far
to the west lies the land which the Greeks called Hesperia, but which now bears the name of
Italy. There is our destined home; thence came Dardanus, our great ancestor and the father
of our race."

Amazed at this vision, Æneas sprang up and lifted his hands to heaven in prayer. Then he hastened
to tell Anchises of this strange event. They resolved to tarry no longer, but turning their
backs on the rising walls they drew their ships down to the sea again, and once more set forth
in search of a new country.

Now they sailed towards the west, and rounded the south of Greece into the Ionian Sea. But
a storm drove them out of their course, and the darkness was so thick that they could not tell
night from day, and the helmsman, Palinurus, knew not whither he was steering. Thus they were
tossed about aimlessly for three days and nights, till at last they saw land ahead and, lowering
their sails, rowed safely into a quiet harbor. Not a human being was in sight, but herds of
cattle grazed on the pastures, and goats sported untended on the rocks. Here was even food
in plenty for hungry men. They killed oxen and goats, and made ready a feast for themselves,
and a sacrifice for the gods. The repast was prepared, and Æneas and his comrades were about
to enjoy it, when a sound of rustling wings was heard all round them. Horrible creatures, half
birds, half women, with long talons and cruel beaks, swooped down on the tables and carried
off the food before the eyes of the terrified banqueters. These were the Harpies, who had once
been sent to plague King Phineus, and when they were driven away by two of the Argonauts, Zetes
and Calais, took refuge in these islands. In vain the Trojans attacked them with their swords,
for the monsters would fly out of reach, and then dart back again on a sudden, and pounce once
more on the food, while Celæno, chief of the Harpies, perched on a rock and chanted in hoarse
tones a prophecy of ill omen. "You that kill our oxen and seek to drive us from our rightful
home, hearken to my words, which Jupiter declared to Apollo, and Apollo told even to me. You
are sailing to Italy, and you shall reach Italy and enter its harbors. But you are not destined
to surround your city with a wall, till cruel hunger and vengeance for the wrong you have done
us force you to gnaw your very tables with your teeth."

When the Trojans heard this terrible prophecy their hearts sank within them, and Anchises,
lifting his hands to heaven, besought the gods to avert this grievous doom. Thus, full of sad
forebodings, they returned to their ships.

Their way now lay along the western coast of Greece, and they were glad to slip unnoticed past
the rocky island of Ithaca, the home of Ulysses the wily. For they did not know that he was
still held captive by the nymph Calypso, and that many years were to pass before he should
be restored to his kingdom. They next cast anchor off Leucadia, and passed the winter in these
regions. In spring they sailed north again, and landed in Epirus, and here to their surprise
they found Helenus, one of the sons of Priam, ruling over a Greek people. He welcomed his kinsman
joyfully and, having the gift of prophecy from Apollo, foretold the course of his wanderings.
"Italy, which you deem so near, is a far-distant land, and many adventures await you before
you reach that shore where lies your destined home. Before you reach it, you will visit Sicily,
and the realms of the dead and the island of Circe. But I will give you a sign whereby you
may know the appointed place. When by the banks of a secluded stream you shall see a huge white
sow with her thirty young ones, then shall you have reached the limit of your wanderings. Be
sure to avoid the eastern coast of Italy opposite these shores. Wicked Greek tribes have their
dwelling there, and it is safer to pass at once to the western coast. On your left, you will
hear in the Strait the thundering roar of Charybdis, and on the right grim Scylla sits scowling
in her cave ready to spring on the unwary traveler. Better take a long circuit round Sicily
than come even within sight and sound of Scylla. As soon as you touch the western shores of
Italy, go to the city of Cumæ and the Sibyl's cavern. Try to win her favor, and she will tell
you of the nations of Italy and the wars yet to come, and how you may avoid each peril and
accomplish every labor. One warning would I give you and enjoin it with all my power. If you
desire to reach your journey's end in safety, forget not to do homage to Juno. Offer up prayers
to her divinity, load her altars with gifts. Then, and then only, may you hope for a happy
issue from all your troubles!"

So once more the Trojans set sail, and obedient to the warnings of Helenus they avoided the
eastern coast of Italy, and struck southward towards Sicily. Far up the channel they heard
the roar of Charybdis and hastened their speed in fear. Soon the snowy cone of Etna came into
view with its column of smoke rising heavenward. As they lay at anchor hard by, a ragged, half-starved
wretch ran out of the woods calling loudly on Æneas for succor. This was one of the comrades
of Ulysses, who had been left behind by mistake, and lived in perpetual dread of the savage
Cyclôpes. Æneas was moved to pity, and though the man was a Greek and an enemy, he took him
on board and gave him food and succor. Before they left this place they had a glimpse of Polyphemus
himself. The blind giant came down the cliff with his flock, feeling his way with a huge staff
of pine-trunk. He even stepped into the sea, and walked far out without wetting his thighs.
The Trojans hastily slipped their cables, and made away. Polyphemus heard the sound of their
oars, and called his brother Cyclôpes to come and seize the strangers, but they were too late
to overtake the fugitives.

After this they continued their southward course, passing the island where Syracuse now stands,
and rounding the southern coast of Sicily. Then they sailed past the tall rock of Acragas and
palm-loving Selinus, and so came to the western corner, where the harbor of Drepanun gave them
shelter. Here a sorrow overtook Æneas, that neither the harpy nor the seer had foretold. Anchises,
weary with wandering and sick of long-deferred hope, fell ill and died. Sadly Æneas sailed
from hence without his trusted friend and counselor, and steered his course for Italy.

At last the goal seemed at hand and the dangers of the narrow strait had been escaped. But
Æneas had a far more dangerous enemy than Scylla and Charybdis, for Juno's wrath was not yet
appeased. He had offered prayer and sacrifice, as Helenus bade him, but her long-standing grudge
was not so easily forgotten. She hated Troy and the Trojans with an undying hatred, and would
not suffer even these few-storm-tossed wanderers to seek their new home in peace. She knew
too that it was appointed by the Fates that a descendant of this fugitive Trojan should one
day found a city destined to eclipse in wealth and glory her favorite city of Carthage. This
she desired to avert at all costs, and if even the queen of heaven was not strong enough to
overrule fate, at least she resolved that the Trojans should not enter into their inheritance
without many and grievous tribulations.

Off the northerncoast of Sicily lies a group of small islands, still called the Æolian Isles,
after Æolus, king of the winds, whose palace stood upon the largest. Here he lived in a rock-bound
castle, and kept the boisterous winds fast bound in strong dungeons, that they might not go
forth unbidden to work havoc and destruction. But for his restraining hand they would have
burst forth and swept away land and sea in their fury. To this rocky fortress Juno came with
a request to Æolus. "Men of a race hateful to me are now crossing the sea. I beseech you, therefore,
send a storm to scatter the ships and drown the men in the waves. As a reward I will give you
one of my fairest nymphs in marriage." Thus she urged, and at her bidding Æolus struck the
rock and the prison gates were opened. The winds at once rushed forth in all directions. The
clouds gathered and blotted out sky and daylight, thunder roared and lightning flashed, and
the Trojans thought their last hour had come. Even Æneas lost heart, and envied the lot of
those who fell before Troy by the sword of Diomede. Soon a violent gust struck his ship, the
oars were broken, and the prow turned round and exposed the side to the waves. The water closed
over it, then opened again, and drew down the vessel, leaving the men floating on the water.
Three ships were dashed against sunken rocks, three were driven among the shallows and blocked
with a mound of sand. Another was struck from stem to stern, then sucked down into a whirlpool.
One after another the rest succumbed, and it seemed as if each moment must see their utter
destruction.

Meantime Neptune in his palace at the bottom of the sea had noticed the sudden disturbance
of the waters, and now put out his head above the waves to learn the cause of this commotion.
When he saw the shattered Trojan ships he guessed that this was Juno's work. Instantly he summoned
the winds and chid them for daring to disturb the waters without his leave. "Begone," he said,
"and tell your master Æolus that the dominion of the sea is mine, not his. Let him be content
to keep guard over you and see that you do not escape from your prison." While he spoke Neptune
was busy calming the waters, and it was not long before he put the clouds to flight and brought
back the sunshine. Nymphs came to push the ships off the rocks, and Neptune himself opened
a way out of the shallows. Then he returned to his chariot, and his white horses carried him
lightly across the calm waters.

Thankful to have saved a few of his ships, all shattered and leaking as they were, Æneas bade
the helmsman steer for the nearest land. What was their joy to see within easy reach a quiet
harbor closed in by a sheltering island. The entrance was guarded by twin cliffs, and a forest
background closed in the scene. Once within this shelter the weary vessels needed no anchor
to secure them. Here at last Æneas and his comrades could stretch their aching limbs on dry
land. They kindled a fire of leaves with a flint, and dried their sodden corn for a scanty meal.

Æneas now climbed one of the hills to see whether he might catch a glimpse of any of the missing
ships. Not a sail was in sight, but in the valley below he spied a herd of deer grazing. Here
was better food for hungry men. Drawing an arrow from his quiver, he fitted it to his bow,
let fly, and a mighty stag fell to his aim. Six others shared its fate, then Æneas returned
with his booty and bade his friends make merry with venison and Sicilian wine from the ships.
As they ate and drank, he tried to hearten the Trojans. "Endure a little longer," he urged.
"Think of the perils through which we have passed, remember the dreadful Cyclôpes and cruel
Scylla. Despair not now, for one day the memory of past sufferings shall delight your hours
of ease. Through toils and hardships we are making our way to Latium, where the gods have promised
us a peaceful home and a new and glorious Troy. Hold out a little while, and wait for the happy
days in store."

After this, Virginius, that had borne false witness against Cæso, was found guilty of perjury,
and went into exile. And when Cincinnatus saw that justice had been done to this evildoer,
he resigned his dictatorship, having held it for sixteen days only.

HEROES OF GREAT BRITAIN

BEOWULF

ADAPTED BY H.E. MARSHALL

I

HOW BEOWULF OVERCAME THE OGRE AND THE WATER-WITCH

Long ago, there lived in Daneland a King, beloved of all, called Hrothgar. He was valiant and
mighty in war, overcoming all his foes and taking from them much spoil. Looking upon his great
treasure, King Hrothgar said, "I will build me a great hall. It shall be vast and wide, adorned
within and without with gold and ivory, with gems and carved work. It shall be a hall of joy
and feasting."

Then King Hrothgar called his workmen and gave them commandment to build the hall. They set
to work, and becoming each day more fair, the hall was at length finished. It stood upon a
height, vast and stately, and as it was adorned with the horns of deer, King Hrothgar named
it Hart Hall. The King made a great feast. To it his warriors young and old were called, and
he divided his treasure, giving to each rings of gold. And so in the hall there was laughter
and song and great merriment. Every evening when the shadows fell, and the land grew dark without,
the knights and warriors gathered in the hall to feast. And when the feast was over, and the
great fire roared upon the hearth, the minstrel took his harp and sang. Far over dreary fen
and moorland the light glowed cheerfully, and the sound of song and harp awoke the deep silence
of the night. Within the hall was light and gladness, but without there was wrath and hate.
For far on the moor there lived a wicked giant named Grendel, prowling at night to see what
evil he might do.

Very terrible was this ogre Grendel to look upon. Thick black hair hung about his face, and
his teeth were long and sharp, like the tusks of an animal. His huge body and great hairy arms
had the strength of ten men. He wore no armor, for his skin was tougher than any coat of mail
that man or giant might weld. His nails were like steel and sharper than daggers, and by his
side there hung a great pouch in which he carried off those whom he was ready to devour. Day
by day the music of harp and song was a torture to him and made him more and more mad with
jealous hate.

At length he crept through the darkness to Hart Hall where the warriors slept after feast and
song. Arms and armor had been thrown aside, so with ease the ogre slew thirty of the bravest.
Howling with wicked joy he carried them off and devoured them. The next night, again the wicked
one crept stealthily through the darkening moorland until he reached Hart Hall, stretched forth
his hand, and seized the bravest of the warriors. In the morning each man swore that he would
not again sleep beneath the roof of the hall. For twelve years it stood thus, no man daring,
except in the light of day, to enter it.

And now it came to pass that across the sea in far Gothland the tale of Grendel and his wrath
was carried to Beowulf the Goth, who said he would go to King Hrothgar to help him. Taking
with him fifteen good comrades, he set sail for Daneland.

When Hrothgar was told that Beowulf had come to help him, he said, "I knew him when he was
yet a lad. His father and his mother have I known. Truly he hath sought a friend. I have heard
that he is much renowned in war, and hath the strength of thirty men in the grip of his hand.
I pray Heaven he hath been sent to free us from the horror of Grendel. Bid Beowulf and his
warriors to enter."

Guided by the Danish knight, Beowulf and his men went into Hart Hall and stood before the aged
Hrothgar. After friendly words of greeting Beowulf said, "And now will I fight against Grendel,
bearing neither sword nor shield. With my hands alone will I grapple with the fiend, and foe
to foe we will fight for victory."

That night Beowulf's comrades slept in Hart Hall. Beowulf alone remained awake. Out of the
mists of the moorland the Evil Thing strode. Loud he laughed as he gazed upon the sleeping
warriors. Beowulf, watchful and angry, curbed his wrath. Grendel seized one of the men, drank
his blood, crushed his bones, and swallowed his horrid feast. Then Beowulf caught the monster
and fought till the noise of the contest was as of thunder. The knights awoke and tried to
plunge their swords into the hide of Grendel, but in vain. By enchantments he had made himself
safe. At length the fight came to an end. The sinews in Grendel's shoulder burst, the bones
cracked. The ogre tore himself free, leaving his arm in Beowulf's mighty grip.

Sobbing forth his death-song, Grendel fled till he reached his dwelling in the lake of the
water-dragons, and there plunged in. The dark waves closed over him and he sank to his home.
Loud were the songs of triumph in Hart Hall, great the rejoicing, for Beowulf had made good
his boast. He had cleansed the hall of the ogre. A splendid feast was made and much treasure
given to Beowulf by the King and Queen.

Again did the Dane lords sleep in the great hall, but far away in the water-dragons' lake the
mother of Grendel wept over the dead body of her son, desiring revenge. Very terrible to look
upon was this water-witch. As the darkness fell she crept across the moorland to Hart Hall.
In she rushed eager for slaughter. A wild cry rang through the hall. The water-witch fled,
but in doing so carried off the best beloved of all the King's warriors.

Quickly was Beowulf called and he rode forth to the dark lake. Down and down he dived till
he came to the cave of the water-witch whom he killed after a desperate struggle. Hard by on
a couch lay the body of Grendel. Drawing his sword he smote off the ogre's head. Swimming up
with it he reached the surface and sprang to land, and was greeted by his faithful thanes.
Four of them were needed to carry the huge head back to Hart Hall.

His task being done Beowulf made haste to return to his own land that he might seek his own
King, Hygelac, and lay before him the treasures that Hrothgar had given him. With gracious
words the old King thanked the young warrior, and bade him to come again right speedily. Hygelac
listened with wonder and delight to all that had happened in Daneland and graciously received
the splendid gifts.

For many years Beowulf lived beloved of all, and when it befell that Hygelac died in battle,
the broad realm of Gothland was given unto Beowulf to rule. And there for fifty years he reigned
a well-loved King.

II

HOW THE FIRE DRAGON WARRED WITH THE GOTH FOLK

And now when many years had come and gone and the realm had long time been at peace, sorrow
came upon the people of the Goths. And thus it was that the evil came.

It fell upon a time that a slave by his misdeeds roused his master's wrath, and when his lord
would have punished him he fled in terror. And as he fled trembling to hide himself, he came
by chance into a great cave.

There the slave hid, thankful for refuge. But soon he had cause to tremble in worse fear than
before, for in the darkness of the cave he saw that a fearful dragon lay asleep. Then as the
slave gazed in terror at the awful beast, he saw that it lay guarding a mighty treasure.

Never had he seen such a mass of wealth. Swords and armor inlaid with gold, cups and vessels
of gold and silver set with precious stones, rings and bracelets lay piled around in glittering
heaps.

For hundreds of years this treasure had lain there in secret. A great prince had buried it
in sorrow for his dead warriors. In his land there had been much fighting until he alone of
all his people was left. Then in bitter grief he gathered all his treasure and hid it in this cave.

"Take, O earth," he cried, "what the heroes might not keep. Lo! good men and true once before
earned it from thee. Now a warlike death hath taken away every man of my people. There is none
now to bear the sword or receive the cup. There is no more joy in the battle-field or in the
hall of peace. So here shall the gold-adorned helmet molder, here the coat of mail rust and
the wine-cup lie empty."

Thus the sad prince mourned. Beside his treasure he sat weeping both day and night until death
took him also, and of all his people there was none left.

So the treasure lay hidden and secret for many a day.

Then upon a time it happened that a great dragon, fiery-eyed and fearful, as it flew by night
and prowled seeking mischief, came upon the buried hoard.

As men well know, a dragon ever loveth gold. So to guard his new-found wealth lest any should
come to rob him of it, he laid him down there and the cave became his dwelling. Thus for three
hundred years he lay gloating over his treasure, no man disturbing him.

But now at length it chanced that the fleeing slave lighted upon the hoard. His eyes were dazzled
by the shining heap. Upon it lay a cup of gold, wondrously chased and adorned.

"If I can but gain that cup," said the slave to himself, "I will return with it to my master,
and for the sake of the gold he will surely forgive me."

So while the dragon slept, trembling and fearful the slave crept nearer and nearer to the glittering
mass. When he came quite near he reached forth his hand and seized the cup. Then with it he
fled back to his master.

It befell then as the slave had foreseen. For the sake of the wondrous cup his misdeeds were
forgiven him.

But when the dragon awoke his fury was great. Well knew he that mortal man had trod his cave
and stolen of his hoard.

Round and round about he sniffed and searched until he discovered the footprints of his foe.
Eagerly then all over the ground he sought to find the man who, while he slept, had done him
this ill. Hot and fierce of mood he went backwards and forwards round about his treasure-heaps.
All within the cave he searched in vain. Then coming forth he searched without. All round the
hill in which his cave was he prowled, but no man could he find, nor in all the wilds around
was there any man.

Again the old dragon returned, again he searched among his treasure-heap for the precious cup.
Nowhere was it to be found. It was too surely gone.

But the dragon, as well as loving gold, loved war. So now in angry mood he lay couched in his
lair. Scarce could he wait until darkness fell, such was his wrath. With fire he was resolved
to repay the loss of his dear drinking-cup.

At last, to the joy of the great winged beast, the sun sank. Then forth from his cave he came,
flaming fire.

Spreading his mighty wings, he flew through the air until he came to the houses of men. Then
spitting forth flame, he set fire to many a happy homestead. Wherever the lightning of his
tongue struck, there fire flamed forth, until where the fair homes of men had been there was
naught but blackened ruins. Here and there, this way and that, through all the land he sped,
and wherever he passed fire flamed aloft.

The warfare of the dragon was seen from far. The malice of the worm was known from north to
south, from east to west. All men knew how the fearful foe hated and ruined the Goth folk.

Then having worked mischief and desolation all night through, the fire-dragon turned back;
to his secret cave he slunk again ere break of day. Behind him he left the land wasted and
desolate.

The dragon had no fear of the revenge of man. In his fiery warfare he trusted to find shelter
in his hill, and in his secret cave. But in that trust he was misled.

Speedily to King Beowulf were the tidings of the dragon and his spoiling carried. For alas!
even his own fair palace was wrapped in flame. Before his eyes he saw the fiery tongues lick
up his treasures. Even the Gift-seat of the Goths melted in fire.

Then was the good King sorrowful. His heart boiled within him with angry thoughts. The fire-dragon
had utterly destroyed the pleasant homes of his people. For this the war-prince greatly desired
to punish him.

Therefore did Beowulf command that a great shield should be made for him, all of iron. He knew
well that a shield of wood could not help him in this need. Wood against fire! Nay, that were
useless. His shield must be all of iron.

Too proud, too, was Beowulf, the hero of old time, to seek the winged beast with a troop of
soldiers. Not thus would he overcome him. He feared not for himself, nor did he dread the dragon's
war-craft. For with his valor and his skill Beowulf had succeeded many a time. He had been
victorious in many a tumult of battle since that day when a young man and a warrior prosperous
in victory, he had cleansed Hart Hall by grappling with Grendel and his kin.

And now when the great iron shield was ready, he chose eleven of his best thanes and set out
to seek the dragon. Very wrathful was the old King, very desirous that death should take his
fiery foe. He hoped, too, to win the great treasure of gold which the fell beast guarded. For
already Beowulf had learned whence the feud arose, whence came the anger which had been so
hurtful to his people. And the precious cup, the cause of all the quarrel, had been brought to him.

With the band of warriors went the slave who had stolen the cup. He it was who must be their
guide to the cave, for he alone of all men living knew the way thither. Loth he was to be their
guide. But captive and bound he was forced to lead the way over the plain to the dragon's hill.

Unwillingly he went with lagging footsteps until at length he came to the cave hard by the
seashore. There by the sounding waves lay the savage guardian of the treasure. Ready for war
and fierce was he. It was no easy battle that was there prepared for any man, brave though
he might be.

And now on the rocky point above the sea King Beowulf sat himself down. Here he would bid farewell
to all his thanes ere he began the combat. For what man might tell which from that fight should
come forth victorious?

Beowulf's mind was sad. He was now old. His hair was white, his face was wrinkled and gray.
But still his arm was strong as that of a young man. Yet something within him warned him that
death was not far off.

So upon the rocky point he sat and bade farewell to his dear comrades.

"In my youth," said the aged King, "many battles have I dared, and yet must I, the guardian
of my people, though I be full of years, seek still another feud. And again will I win glory
if the wicked spoiler of my land will but come forth from his lair."

Much he spoke. With loving words he bade farewell to each one of his men, greeting his dear
comrades for the last time.

"I would not bear a sword or weapon against the winged beast," he said at length, "if I knew
how else I might grapple with the wretch, as of old I did with Grendel. But I ween this war-fire
is hot, fierce, and poisonous. Therefore I have clad me in a coat of mail, and bear this shield
all of iron. I will not flee a single step from the guardian of the treasure. But to us upon
this rampart it shall be as fate will.

"Now let me make no more vaunting speech. Ready to fight am I. Let me forth against the winged
beast. Await ye here on the mount, clad in your coats of mail, your arms ready. Abide ye here
until ye see which of us twain in safety cometh forth from the clash of battle.

"It is no enterprise for you, or for any common man. It is mine alone. Alone I needs must go
against the wretch and prove myself a warrior. I must with courage win the gold, or else deadly,
baleful war shall fiercely snatch me, your lord, from life."

Then Beowulf arose. He was all clad in shining armor, his gold-decked helmet was upon his head,
and taking his shield in hand he strode under the stony cliffs towards the cavern's mouth.
In the strength of his single arm he trusted against the fiery dragon.

No enterprise this for a coward.

III

HOW BEOWULF OVERCAME THE DRAGON

Beowulf left his comrades upon the rocky point jutting out into the sea, and alone he strode
onward until he spied a great stone arch. From beneath the arch, from out the hillside, flowed
a stream seething with fierce, hot fire. In this way the dragon guarded his lair, for it was
impossible to pass such a barrier unhurt.

So upon the edge of this burning river Beowulf stood and called aloud in anger. Stout of heart
and wroth against the winged beast was he.

The King's voice echoed like a war-cry through the cavern. The dragon heard it and was aroused
to fresh hate of man. For the guardian of the treasure-hoard knew well the sound of mortal
voice. Now was there no long pause ere battle raged.

First from out the cavern flamed forth the breath of the winged beast. Hot sweat of battle
rose from out the rock. The earth shook and growling thunder trembled through the air.

The dragon, ringed around with many-colored scales, was now hot for battle, and, as the hideous
beast crept forth, Beowulf raised his mighty shield and rushed against him.

Already the King had drawn his sword. It was an ancient heirloom, keen of edge and bright.
Many a time it had been dyed in blood; many a time it had won glory and victory.

But ere they closed, the mighty foes paused. Each knew the hate and deadly power of the other.

The mighty Prince, firm and watchful, stood guarded by his shield. The dragon, crouching as
in ambush, awaited him.

Then suddenly like a flaming arch the dragon bent and towered, and dashed upon the Lord of
the Goths. Up swung the arm of the hero, and dealt a mighty blow to the grisly, many-colored
beast. But the famous sword was all too weak against such a foe. The edge turned and bit less
strongly than its great king had need, for he was sore pressed. His shield, too, proved no
strong shelter from the wrathful dragon.

The warlike blow made greater still the anger of the fiery foe. Now he belched forth flaming
fire. All around fierce lightnings darted.

Beowulf no longer hoped for glorious victory. His sword had failed him. The edge was turned
and blunted upon the scaly foe. He had never thought the famous steel would so ill serve him.
Yet he fought on ready to lose his life in such good contest.

Again the battle paused, again the King and dragon closed in fight.

The dragon-guardian of the treasure had renewed his courage. His heart heaved and boiled with
fire, and fresh strength breathed from him. Beowulf was wrapped in flame. Dire was his need.

Yet of all his comrades none came near to help. Nay, as they watched the conflict they were
filled with base fear, and fled to the wood hard by for refuge.

Only one among them sorrowed for his master, and as he watched his heart was wrung with grief.

Wiglaf was this knight called, and he was Beowulf's kinsman. Now when he saw his liege lord
hard pressed in battle he remembered all the favors Beowulf had heaped upon him. He remembered
all the honors and the wealth which he owed to his King. Then could he no longer be still.
Shield and spear he seized, but ere he sped to aid his King he turned to his comrades.

"When our lord and King gave us swords and armor," he cried, "did we not promise to follow
him in battle whenever he had need? When he of his own will chose us for this expedition he
reminded us of our fame. He said he knew us to be good warriors, bold helmet-wearers. And although
indeed our liege lord thought to do this work of valor alone, without us, because more than
any man he hath done glorious and rash deeds, lo! now is the day come that hath need of strength
and of good warriors. Come, let us go to him. Let us help our chieftain although the grim terror
of fire be hot.

"Heaven knoweth I would rather the flame would blast my body than his who gave me gold. It
seemeth not fitting to me that we should bear back our shields to our homes unless we may first
fell the foe and defend the life of our King. Nay, it is not of the old custom of the Goths
that the King alone should suffer, that he alone should sink in battle. Our lord should be
repaid for his gifts to us, and so he shall be by me even if death take us twain."

But none would hearken to Wiglaf. So alone he sped through the deadly smoke and flame, till
to his master's side he came offering aid.

"My lord Beowulf," he cried, "fight on as thou didst in thy youth-time. Erstwhile didst thou
say that thou wouldst not let thy greatness sink so long as life lasteth. Defend thou thy life
with all might. I will support thee to the utmost."

When the dragon heard these words his fury was doubled. The fell wicked beast came on again
belching forth fire, such was his hatred of men. The flame-waves caught Wiglaf's shield, for
it was but of wood. It was burned utterly, so that only the stud of steel remained. His coat
of mail alone was not enough to guard the young warrior from the fiery enemy. But right valiantly
he went on fighting beneath the shelter of Beowulf's shield now that his own was consumed to
ashes by the flames.

Then again the warlike King called to mind his ancient glories, again he struck with main strength
with his good sword upon the monstrous head. Hate sped the blow.

But alas! as it descended the famous sword Nægling snapped asunder. Beowulf's sword had failed
him in the conflict, although it was an old and well-wrought blade. To him it was not granted
that weapons should help him in battle. The hand that swung the sword was too strong. His might
overtaxed every blade however wondrously the smith had welded it.

And now a third time the fell fire-dragon was roused to wrath. He rushed upon the King. Hot,
and fiercely grim the great beast seized Beowulf's neck in his horrid teeth. The hero's life-blood
gushed forth, the crimson stream darkly dyed his bright armor.

Then in the great King's need his warrior showed skill and courage. Heeding not the flames
from the awful mouth, Wiglaf struck the dragon below the neck. His hand was burned with the
fire, but his sword dived deep into the monster's body and from that moment the flames began
to abate.

The horrid teeth relaxed their hold, and Beowulf, quickly recovering himself, drew his deadly
knife. Battle-sharp and keen it was, and with it the hero gashed the dragon right in the middle.

The foe was conquered. Glowing in death he fell. They twain had destroyed the winged beast.
Such should a warrior be, such a thane in need.

To the King it was a victorious moment. It was the crown of all his deeds.

Then began the wound which the fire-dragon had wrought him to burn and to swell. Beowulf soon
found that baleful poison boiled in his heart. Well knew he that the end was nigh. Lost in
deep thought he sat upon the mound and gazed wondering at the cave. Pillared and arched with
stone-work it was within, wrought by giants and dwarfs of old time.

And to him came Wiglaf his dear warrior and tenderly bathed his wound with water.

Then spake Beowulf, in spite of his deadly wound he spake, and all his words were of the ending
of his life, for he knew that his days of joy upon this earth were past.

"Had a son been granted to me, to him I should have left my war-garments. Fifty years have
I ruled this people, and there has been no king of all the nations round who durst meet me
in battle. I have known joys and sorrows, but no man have I betrayed, nor many false oaths
have I sworn. For all this may I rejoice, though I be now sick with mortal wounds. The Ruler
of Men may not upbraid me with treachery or murder of kinsmen when my soul shall depart from
its body.

"But now, dear Wiglaf, go thou quickly to the hoard of gold which lieth under the hoary rock.
The dragon lieth dead; now sleepeth he for ever, sorely wounded and bereft of his treasure.
Then haste thee, Wiglaf, for I would see the ancient wealth, the gold treasure, the jewels,
the curious gems. Haste thee to bring it hither; then after that I have seen it, I shall the
more contentedly give up my life and the kingship that I so long have held."

Quickly Wiglaf obeyed his wounded lord. Into the dark cave he descended, and there outspread
before him was a wondrous sight. Treasure of jewels, many glittering and golden, lay upon the
ground. Wondrous vessels of old time with broken ornaments were scattered round. Here, too,
lay old and rusty helmets, mingled with bracelets and collars cunningly wrought.

Upon the walls hung golden flags. From one a light shone forth by which the whole cavern was
made clear. And all within was silent. No sign was there of any guardian, for without lay the
dragon, sleeping death's sleep.

Quickly Wiglaf gathered of the treasures all that he could carry. Dishes and cups he took,
a golden ensign and a sword curiously wrought. In haste he returned, for he knew not if he
should find his lord in life where he had left him.

And when Wiglaf came again to where Beowulf sat he poured the treasure at his feet. But he
found his lord in a deep swoon. Again the brave warrior bathed Beowulf's wound and laved the
stricken countenance of his lord, until once more he came to himself.

Then spake the King: "For this treasure I give thanks to the Lord of All. Not in vain have
I given my life, for it shall be of great good to my people in need. And now leave me, for
on this earth longer I may not stay. Say to my warriors that they shall raise a mound upon
the rocky point which jutteth seaward. High shall it stand as a memorial to my people. Let
it soar upward so that they who steer their slender barks over the tossing waves shall call
it Beowulf's mound."

The King then took from his neck the golden collar. To Wiglaf, his young thane and kinsman,
he gave it. He gave also his helmet adorned with gold, his ring and coat of mail, and bade
the warrior use them well.

"Thou art the last of our race," he said. "Fate hath swept away all my kinsmen, all the mighty
earls. Now I too must follow them."

That was the last word of the aged King. From his bosom the soul fled to seek the dwellings
of the just. At Wiglaf's feet he lay quiet and still.

HOW KING ARTHUR CONQUERED ROME

ADAPTED BY E. EDWARDSON

King Arthur had just brought a great war to an end, and in honor of his victory he was holding
a royal feast with the kings and princes that were his vassals and all the knights of the Round
Table, when twelve grave and ancient men entered the banquet-hall where he sat at table. They
bore each an olive-branch in his hand, to signify that they were ambassadors from Lucius the
Emperor of Rome, and after they had reverently made obeisance to King Arthur, they delivered
their message as follows:

"The high and mighty Emperor Lucius sends you greeting, O King of Britain, and he commands
you to acknowledge him as your lord, and to pay the tribute which is due from this realm, and
which, it is recorded, was paid by your father and others who came before him. Yet you rebelliously
withhold it and keep it back, in defiance of the statutes and decrees made by the first Emperor
of Rome, the noble Julius Caesar, who conquered this country. And be assured that if you disobey
this command, the Emperor Lucius will come in his might and make war against you and your kingdom,
and will inflict upon you a chastisement that shall serve for ever as a warning to all kings
and princes not to withhold the tribute due to that noble empire to which belongs dominion
over the whole world."

Thus they spoke, and King Arthur having heard their request, bade them withdraw, saying that
he would take the advice of his counselors before giving them his answer; but some of the younger
knights that were in the hall declared that it was a disgrace to all who were at the feast
that such language should be used to the King in their hearing, and they would fain have fallen
upon the ambassadors and slain them. But King Arthur, hearing their murmurs, declared that
any insult or wrong suffered by the ambassadors should be punished with death. Then he sent
them to their quarters, escorted by one of his knights, who was ordered to provide them with
whatever they wanted.

"Let nothing be grudged these men of Rome," said the King "though the demand they make is an
affront alike to me and to you who are of my court. I should be dishonored were the ambassadors
not treated with the respect due to them, seeing that they are great lords in their own land."

As soon as the ambassadors had left the hall, King Arthur asked his knights and lords what
was their advice and counsel in the matter. The first to give his opinion was Sir Cador of
Cornwall.

"Sir," said Sir Cador, "the message brought by these lords is most welcome to me. We have spent
full many days at rest and in idleness, and now my hope is that you will wage war against the
Romans. In that war we shall, I have little doubt, win great honor."

"I am sure," answered King Arthur, "that this affair is welcome to you, but I seek, above all,
your aid in devising a grave and suitable answer to the demand they have made. And let no man
doubt that I hold that demand to be a grievous insult. The tribute they claim, in my opinion,
not only is not due, but cannot be due; for more than one British knight having been Emperor
of Rome, it is, I hold, the duty of Rome to acknowledge the lordship of Britain, rather than
of Britain to acknowledge that of Rome. What think ye?"

"Sir," replied King Anguish of Scotland, "you ought of right to be lord over all other kings,
for throughout Christendom there is neither knight nor man of high estate worthy to be compared
with you. My advice is, never yield to the Romans. When they reigned over us, they oppressed
our principal men, and laid heavy and extortionate burdens upon the land. For that cause I,
standing here, solemnly vow vengeance upon them for the evil they then did, and, to support
you in your quarrel, I will at my own cost furnish twenty thousand good fighting men. This
force I will command in person, and I will bring it to your aid whenever you choose to summon me."

In like manner, the King of Little Britain, as Brittany was called in those days, undertook
to furnish thirty thousand men; and all the others who were present agreed to fight on King
Arthur's side, and to assist him to the utmost of their power. So he, having thanked them heartily
for the courage and good will towards him that they displayed, had the ambassadors summoned
back into the banquet-hall and addressed them thus:

"I would have you go back to him who sent you, and I would have you say to him that I will
pay no heed to any orders or demands that may be brought from him; and as for tribute so far
am I from allowing that there is any tribute due from me or to any other man or prince upon
earth, be he heathen or Christian, that I claim lordship over the empire he now has. And say
further to him, that I have determined and resolved to go to Rome with my army, to take possession
of the empire and to subdue all that behave themselves rebelliously. Therefore, let your master
and all the other men of Rome get themselves ready to do homage to me, and to acknowledge me
as their emperor and governor, and let them know that if they refuse, they will be punished
befittingly."

Then King Arthur bade his treasurer give handsome gifts to the ambassadors, and repay in full
the cost of their journey, and he assigned Sir Cador as their escort to see them safely out
of the country. So they took their leave, and going to Sandwich, sailed thence, and passed
through Flanders and Germany over the Alps into Italy to the court of the Emperor.

When the Emperor heard what message King Arthur had entrusted to them, and understood that
this was indeed the reply to his demand for tribute, he was grievously angry.

"Of truth," he said, "I never doubted that King Arthur would obey my commands and submit, as
it befits him and all other kings to submit themselves to me."

"Sir," answered one of the ambassadors, "I beseech you not to speak thus boastfully. In very
truth my companions and myself were dismayed when we saw King Arthur face to face, and my fear
is that you have made a rod for your own back, for his intention is to become lord over this
empire. His threats, I warn you, are no idle talk. He is a very different man from what you
hoped he was, and his court is the most noble upon earth. Never had any one of us beheld such
magnificence as we beheld there on New Year's Day, when nine kings, besides other princes,
lords, and knights, sat at table with King Arthur. Nor do I believe that there could be found
anywhere another band of knights worthy to be matched with the knights who sit at his Round
Table, nor a more manly man than the King himself. And since I verily believe his ambition
is such that he would not be satisfied though he had conquered the whole world, my advice is
that you have careful watch kept upon the borders of your lands and upon the ways over the
mountains, for I am certain that you would do wisely to guard yourself well against him."

"Well," answered Lucius, "my intention is before Easter to cross the Alps and to descend into
France and seize the lands that belong to him there. With me I shall take my mighty warriors
from Tuscany and Lombardy, and all the subjects and allies I have shall be summoned to my aid."

Then the Emperor picked out wise old knights and sent them east and west throughout Asia, Africa,
and Europe, to summon his allies from Turkey, Syria, Portugal, and the other distant lands
that were subject to him; and in the meantime he assembled his forces from Rome, and from the
countries between Rome and Flanders, and he collected together as his bodyguard fifty giants
who were sons of evil spirits. Putting himself at the head of this mighty host, Lucius departed
from Rome, and marching through Savoy, crossed the mountains, meaning to lay waste the lands
King Arthur had conquered. He besieged and took a castle near Cologne, which he garrisoned
with Saracens and unbelievers. Then he passed on, plundering and pillaging the country, till
he entered Burgundy, where he halted to collect the whole of his army before invading and laying
utterly waste the land of Little Britain.

In the meantime preparations were being made on the side of the British. A parliament was held
at York, and there it was resolved that all the navy of the kingdom should be got ready and
assembled within fifteen days at Sandwich. Sir Baudewaine of Britain, and Sir Constantine,
the son of Sir Cador of Cornwall, were chosen by the King to be his viceroys during his absence;
and to them, in the presence of all his lords, he confided the care of his kingdom, and he
also entrusted to them Queen Guinevere. She, when the time drew near for the departure of her
lord, wept and lamented so piteously that at last she swooned, and was carried away to her
chamber by the ladies that attended upon her. Then King Arthur mounted his horse, and, putting
himself at the head of his troops, made proclamation in a loud voice that should death befall
him during this expedition, his wish was that Sir Constantine, who was his heir by blood, should
succeed to his possessions and to his throne.

So King Arthur and his army came to Sandwich, where they found awaiting them a great multitude
of galleys and vessels of all sorts, on which they embarked and set out to sea. That night,
as the King lay asleep in his cabin, he dreamed a marvelous dream. A dreadful dragon appeared,
flying out of the west. Its head was all enameled with azure enamel. Its wings and its claws
glistened like gold. Its feet were black as jet. Its body was sheathed in scales that shone
as armor shines after it has been polished, and it had a very great and remarkable tail. Then
there came a cloud out of the east. The grimmest beast man ever saw rode upon this cloud; it
was a wild boar, roaring and growling so hideously that it was terrifying to hear it. The dragon
flew down the wind like a falcon and struck at this boar; but it defended itself with its grisly
tusks, and wounded the dragon in the breast so severely that its blood, pouring into the sea
in torrents, made all the waves red. Then the dragon turned and flew away, and having mounted
up to a great height, again swooped down upon the boar and fastened its claws in the beast's
back. The boar struggled, and raged, and writhed, but all in vain. It was at the mercy of its
foe, and so merciless was the dragon that it never loosened its grip till it had torn the boar
limb from limb and bone from bone, and scattered it piecemeal upon the surface of the sea.

Then King Arthur awoke, and, starting up in great dismay, sent for a wise man that was on board
the ship and bade him interpret the dream.

"Sir," the wise man said, "the dragon which you saw in your dream surely betokens your own
self, its golden wings signifying the countries you have won with your sword, and its marvelous
tail the knights of the Round Table. As for the boar that was slain, that may betoken either
a tyrant that torments his people, or some hideous and abominable giant with whom you are about
to fight. And the dream foreshadows victory for you. Therefore, though it was very dreadful,
you should take comfort from it and be of a good heart."

Before long the sailors sighted land, and the army disembarked at a port in Flanders, where
many great lords were awaiting the arrival of King Arthur, as had been ordained. And to him,
soon after he had arrived, there came a husbandman bringing grievous news. A monstrous giant
had for years infested the country on the borders of Little Britain, and had slain many people
and devoured such numbers of children that there were none left for him to prey upon. And being
in search of victims, and coming upon the Duchess of Little Britain as she rode with her knights,
he had laid hands upon her and carried her off to his den in a mountain. Five hundred men that
followed the duchess could not rescue her, but they heard such heartrending cries and shrieks
that they had little doubt she had been put to death.

"Now," said the husbandman, "as you are a great and noble King and a valiant conqueror, and
as this lady was wife to Sir Howel, who is your own cousin, take pity on her and on all of
us, and avenge us upon this vile giant."

"Alas," King Arthur replied, "this is a grievous and an evil matter. I would give all my kingdom
to have been at hand, so that I might have saved that fair lady."

Then he asked the husbandman whether he could show him the place where the giant would be found,
and the man said that was easy to do, for there were always two fires burning outside the den
he haunted. In that den, the husbandman believed, was stored more treasure than the whole realm
of France contained.

Then the King took Sir Kay and Sir Bedivere apart privately into his tent, and bade them secretly
get ready their horses and armor, and his own, for it was his intention that night, after evensong,
to set out on a pilgrimage to St. Michael's Mount with them, and nobody besides them was to
accompany him. So when evening came, the King, and Sir Kay, and Sir Bedivere armed themselves,
and taking their horses, rode as fast as they could to the foot of St. Michael's Mount. There
the King alighted and bade his knights stay where they were, while he himself ascended the mount.

He went up the hillside till he came to a huge fire. Close to it was a newly made grave, by
which was sitting a sorrowful widow wringing her hands and making great lamentation. King Arthur
saluted her courteously, and asked for whom she was weeping. She prayed him to speak softly,
for "Yonder," said she, "is a monstrous giant that will come and destroy you should your voice
reach his ears. Luckless wretch, what brings you to this mountain?" asked the widow. "Fifty
such knights as you could not hold their ground against the monster."

"Lady," he replied, "the mighty conqueror King Arthur has sent me as his ambassador to this
giant, to inquire why he ventures thus to misuse and maltreat the people of the land."

"A useless embassy in very truth!" she said. "Little does he care for King Arthur, or for any
other man. Not many days have passed since he murdered the fairest lady in the world, the wife
of Sir Howel of Little Britain; and had you brought with you King Arthur's own wife, Queen
Guinevere, he would not be afraid to murder her. Yet, if you must needs speak with him, you
will find him yonder over the crest of the hill."

"This is a fearful warning you give me," said the King. "Yet none the less, believe me, will
I accomplish the task that has been allotted me."

Having climbed up to the crest of the hill, King Arthur looked down, and close below him he
saw the giant basking at his ease by the side of a great fire.

"Thou villain!" cried the King--"thou villain! short shall be thy life and shameful shall be
thy death. Rise and defend yourself. My sword shall avenge that fair duchess whom you murdered."

Starting from the ground, the giant snatched up his great iron club, and aiming a swinging
blow at King Arthur's head, swept the crest off his helmet. Then the King flew at him, and
they wrestled and wrestled till they fell, and as they struggled on the ground King Arthur
again and again smote the giant with his dagger, and they rolled and tumbled down the hill
till they reached the sea-beach at its foot, where Sir Kay and Sir Bedivere were waiting their
lord's return. Rushing to his aid, the two knights at once set their master free, for they
found that the giant, in whose arms he was locked, was already dead.

Then King Arthur sent Sir Kay and Sir Bedivere up the hill to fetch the sword and shield that
he had let fall and left there, and also the giant's iron club and cloak, and he told them
they might keep whatever treasure they found in his den, for he desired nothing besides the
club and the cloak. So they went and did as they were bidden, and brought away as much treasure
as they desired.

When the news of the oppressor's death was spread abroad, the people came in throngs to thank
the King, who had delivered them; but he bade them rather give thanks to Heaven. Then, having
distributed among them the treasure his knights had not needed, and having commanded Sir Howel
to build upon the hill which the giant had haunted a chapel in honor of St. Michael, he returned
to his army, and led it into the country of Champagne, where he pitched his camp in a valley.

That evening two men, of whom one was the Marshal of France, came into the pavilion where King
Arthur sat at table. They brought news that the Emperor was in Burgundy, burning and sacking
towns and villages, so that, unless King Arthur came quickly to their succor, the men of those
parts would be forced to surrender themselves and their goods to Rome.

Hearing this, King Arthur summoned four of his knights--Sir Gawaine, Sir Bors, Sir Lionel,
and Sir Badouine--and ordered them to go with all speed to the Emperor's camp, and all upon
him either to leave the land at once or make ready for battle, since King Arthur would not
suffer the people to be harried any longer. These four knights, accordingly, rode off with
their followers, and before very long they came to a meadow, where, pitched by the side of
a stream, they saw many stately tents, and in the middle of them one which, it was plain, must
be the Emperor's, for above it floated a banner on which was an eagle.

Then they halted and took counsel what it would be best to do, and it was agreed that the rest
of the party should remain in ambush in the wood while Sir Gawaine and Sir Bors delivered the
message they brought. Having heard it, the Emperor Lucius said they had better return and advise
King Arthur to make preparations for being subdued by Rome and losing all his possessions.
To this taunt Sir Gawaine and Sir Bors made angry replies, whereupon Sir Gainus, a knight who
was near of kin to the Emperor, laughed, and said that British knights behaved as if the whole
world rested on their shoulders. Sir Gawaine was infuriated beyond all measure by these words,
and he and Sir Bors fled as fast as their horses could put legs to the ground, dashing headlong
through woods and across streams, till they came to the spot where they had left their comrades
in ambush.

The Romans followed in hot pursuit, and pressed them hard all the way. One knight, indeed,
had almost overtaken them, when Sir Bors turned and ran him through with his spear. Then Sir
Lionel and Sir Badouine came to their assistance, and there was a great and fierce encounter,
and such was the bravery of the British that they routed the Romans and chased them right up
to their tents. There the enemy made a stand, and Sir Bors was taken prisoner; but Sir Gawaine,
drawing his good sword, vowed that he would either rescue his comrade or never look King Arthur
in the face again, and falling upon the men that had captured Sir Bors, he delivered him out
of their hands.

Then the fight waxed hotter and hotter, and the British knights were in such jeopardy that
Sir Gawaine dispatched a messenger to bring him help as quickly as it could be sent, for he
was wounded and sorely hurt. King Arthur, having received the message, instantly mustered his
army; but before he could set out, into the camp rode Sir Gawaine and his companions, bringing
with them many prisoners. And the only one of the band who had suffered any hurt was Sir Gawaine,
whom the king consoled as best he could, bidding his surgeon at once attend to his wounds.

Thus ended the first battle between the Britons and the Romans. That night there was great
rejoicing in the camp of King Arthur; and on the next day all the prisoners were sent to Paris,
with Sir Launcelot du Lake and Sir Cador, and many other knights to guard them. On the way,
passing through a wood, they were beset by a force the Emperor Lucius had placed there in ambush.
Then Sir Launcelot, though the enemy had six men for every one he had with him, fought with
such fury that no one could stand up against him; and at last, in dread of his prowess and
might, the Romans and their allies the Saracens turned and fled as though they had been sheep
and Sir Launcelot a wolf or a lion. But the skirmish had lasted so long that tidings of it
had reached King Arthur, who arrayed himself and hurried to the aid of his knights. Finding
them already victorious, he embraced them one by one, saying that they were indeed worthy of
whatever honors had been granted them in the past, and that no other king had ever had such
noble knights as he had.

To this Sir Cador answered that they might one and all claim at least the merit of not having
deserted their posts, but that the honor of the day belonged to Sir Launcelot, for it passed
man's wit to describe all the feats of arms he had performed. Then Sir Cador told the King
that certain of his knights were slain, and who they were, whereupon King Arthur wept bitterly.

"Truly," he said, "your valor nearly was the destruction of you all. Yet you would not have
been disgraced in my eyes had you retreated. To me it seems a rash and foolhardy thing for
knights to stand their ground when they find themselves overmatched."

"Nay," replied Sir Launcelot, "I think otherwise; for a knight who has once been put to shame
may never recover the honor he has forfeited."

There was among the Romans who escaped from that battle a senator. He went to the Emperor Lucius
and said, "Sir, my advice is that you withdraw your army, for this day has proved that grievous
blows are all we shall win here. There is not one of King Arthur's knights that has not proved
himself worth a hundred of ours."

"Alas," cried Lucius, "that is coward's talk and to hear it grieves me more than all the losses
I have sustained this day."

Then he ordered one of his most trusty allies to take a great force and advance as fast as
he possibly could, the Emperor himself intending to follow in all haste. Warning of this having
been brought secretly to the British camp, King Arthur sent part of his forces to Sessoigne
to occupy the towns and castles before the Romans could reach him. The rest he posted up and
down the country, so as to cut off every way by which the enemy might escape.

Before long the Emperor entered the valley of Sessoigne, and found himself face to face with
King Arthur's men, drawn up in battle array. Seeing that retreat was impossible--for he was
hemmed in by his enemies, and had either to fight his way through them or surrender--he made
an oration to his followers, praying them to quit themselves like men that day, and to remember
that to allow the Britons to hold their ground would bring disgrace upon Rome, the mistress
of the world.

