The slope of the surface of the ledge on the Manhattan side averaged about 1 vertical to 4
horizontal. The rock near the surface was full of disintegrated seams, and was badly broken
up. It was irregularly stratified, and dipped toward the west at an angle of about 60 degrees.
Large pieces frequently broke from the face and slid into the shield, often exposing the sand.
The rock surface was very irregular, and was covered with boulders and detached masses of rock
embedded in coarse sand and gravel. The sand and gravel allowed the air to escape freely. By
the time the shields had entirely cleared the rock, the material in the face had changed to
a fine sand, stratified every few inches by very thin layers of chocolate-colored clayey material.
This is the material elsewhere referred to as quicksand. As the shield advanced eastward, the
number and thickness of the layers of clay increased until the clay formed at least 20% of
the entire mass, and many of the layers were 2 in. thick.

At a distance of about 440 ft. beyond the Manhattan ledge, the material at the bottom of the
face changed suddenly to one in which the layers of clay composed probably 98% of the whole.
The sand layers were not more than 1/16 in. thick and averaged about 2 in. apart. The surface
of the clay rose gradually for a distance of 40 ft. in Tunnels A and B, and 100 ft. in Tunnels
C and D, when gravel and boulders appeared at the bottom of the shield. At that time the clay
composed about one-half of the face.

The surfaces of both the clay and gravel were irregular, but they rose gradually. After rock
was encountered, the formations of gravel and clay were roughly parallel to the rock surface.

As the surface of the rock rose they disappeared in order and were again encountered when the
shields broke out of rock on the east side of the Blackwell's Island Reef. East of the reef
a large quantity of coarse open sand was present in the gravel formations before the clay appeared
below the top of the cutting edge. In Tunnels C and D this was especially difficult to handle.
It appears to be a reasonable assumption that the layer of clay was continuous across the reef.
Wherever the clay extended above the top of the shield it reduced the escape of air materially.
It is doubtless largely due to this circumstance that the part-rock sections in the reef were
not the most difficult portions of the work.

While sinking the lower portions of the shafts the tunnels were excavated eastward in the solid
rock for a distance of about 60 ft., where the rock at the top was found to be somewhat disintegrated.
This was as far as it was considered prudent to go with the full-sized section without air
pressure. At about the same time top headings were excavated westward from the shafts for a
distance of 100 ft., and the headings were enlarged to full size for 50 ft. The object was
to avoid damage to the shaft and interference with the river tunnel when work was started by
the contractor for the cross-town tunnel.

