This Voltaire says: “The laws punished public crimes; it was necessary to establish a check
upon secret crimes; this check was to be found only in religion.” In the same article we find
the following: “We are obliged to hold intercourse and transact business and mix up in life
with knaves possessing little or no reflection; with vast numbers of persons addicted to brutality,
intoxication and rapine. You may, if you please, preach to them that there is no hell, and
that the soul of man is mortal. As for myself, I will be sure to thunder in their ears that
if they rob me they will inevitably be damned.” His true position upon the hell question is,
that it is necessary to preach hell to the blind and brutal populace, that there is a real
necessity for such teaching, whether it be true or false. He seems to regard it untrue, but
necessary. What an idea! The harmony and consistency of unbelievers is (?) grand. It is no
wonder that Voltaire’s name should stand, along with the names of Atheists and Pantheists and
Deists, above the head line upon the first page of the Boston Investigator.

IS GOD THE AUTHOR OF DECEPTION AND FALSEHOOD?

There is a want of fair dealing with Bible language manifested by all the enemies of our religion.
The unbelievers of our time will find it very difficult for them to sustain the reputation
of moral honesty and, at the same time, retain many of the old, worn out objections which they
have urged against the Bible. They should remember that while the light of scientific investigation
is exposing the old, unscientific and unscriptural tenets of the creeds of our forefathers,
and making it hard for candid, sensible men to defend them, it is also shedding light upon
Bible truth to such an extent that unbelievers are finding it equally difficult to retain their
silly objections to the Bible. They have asserted from 1st Kings 32, that God kept false as
well as true prophets. This charge is not only without foundation in fact, but also false and
contemptible. The four hundred prophets mentioned in the sixth verse of that chapter are emphatically
denominated “Ahab’s prophets,” notwithstanding they professed to be the Lord’s prophets. This
wicked King of Israel had those wicked, false prophets in his service. The address of Micaiah
to the two kings in verses 19-23 is a mere parable showing what, in the providence of God,
would shortly take place, and the divine permission for the agents, spoken of, to act. Micaiah
did not tell the mad and impious Ahab that his prophets were all liars; but he represents the
whole by a parable, and, in language equally strong and inoffensive, he says that which amounts
to the same thing. Unbelievers of the schools of modern spiritualism and Bostonian infidelity,
both say that God inspired prophets with false messages, and violated his own word.

The charge of inspiring prophets with false messages is founded, pretendingly, upon 1st Kings
22: 22, 23, Jeremiah 4: 10, and Ezekiel 14: 9. To answer this, it is only necessary to know
that it is an idiom of the original languages to express, in the imperative active, that which
is simply permitted. Thus, when the devils begged permission to enter into the herd of swine,
Jesus said, “Go”—Mat. 8: 31.

And so we are to understand, John 13: 27, where Jesus says to Judas Iscariot, “What thou dost,
do quickly.” No man is thoroughly posted as a Bible scholar who is honest in making the above
charge. It is either ignorance or dishonesty that causes men to thus oppose the record. As
we are not justifiable in saying that Jesus commanded his own betrayal, so we are not justifiable
in saying God commanded lying. Correct principles of interpretation do not justify the unbeliever
in any such blasphemy. When an evil spirit offered himself to be a lying spirit in the mouth
of a wicked prophet—false prophet—God said, “Go forth and do so,” which only signifies permission,
not command. In Jeremiah 4: 10, where the prophet complains that God had deceived them, saying,
“They should have peace, when the sword reached to the soul,” we are to understand that God
permitted the false prophets to deceive him, prophesying peace to the people, as appears from
the history (Ezekiel 14: 9). I, the Lord, have deceived that prophet, that is, permitted him
to be deceived, and permitted him to deceive the people, as the legitimate result of their
own wickedness, and a just judgment upon them for their rejection of the testimony of his true
prophets. There is nothing strange about all this; for as sure as there is a God, so sure it
is that he permits wicked lying men to be deceived in our own day. He has done this in all
ages of the world. In fact, it belongs to his ordained plan to permit, or suffer, men, individually
or collectively, to fall in their own deceptions and wickedness. This he threatened in the
above case, as you may see in the fifth verse of Ezekiel 14, in these words, “I will take the
house of Israel in their own heart, because they are all estranged from me through their idols;
because they have chosen to themselves false Gods, I will suffer them to be deceived with false
prophets; and I will stretch out my hand upon him, and I will destroy him from the midst of
my people.” Destroy whom? Ans.—The false prophet.

When the prophet of God mistook the promise of God, who told him, when he commissioned him,
that he would be with him, by which he understood that he would be saved from all evils, he
said, “Thou hast deceived me, and I was deceived.” This prophet was now a derision, the people
mocking him, and in his passion and weakness he breaks forth in the above language. It was
simply his own mistake, or misunderstanding of God’s promise. God had not promised him that
he should not meet with scorn and opposition and persecution, but simply that they should not
prevail against him, as we may learn from the latter part of the first chapter. The second
objection, that the Lord violated his promise, is also founded in ignorance or dishonesty;
it is based upon the statements found in Joshua 13: 1, and Judges 2: 20, 21, compared with
Genesis 15: 18 and 18: 19, 20. In Joshua 13, it is said that there remained very much land
yet unconquered, which they had not taken possession of, notwithstanding the Lord had promised
to be with them, and to give them all the land remaining yet in the possession of their enemies.

In Judges 2: 20, it is said that the people did not perform their part of the covenant, and
this is given as the reason why the Lord had not driven out any more of the nations before them.

The covenant with Abraham was in consideration of his past faith and obedience; yet it was
suspended upon the future obedience of his posterity. See Deut. 7: 12, 13 and 11: 22 to 24;
and Judges 2 to 20. When we find a promise from the Lord, and it is in the positive form, that
is, when its terms are not rested upon an expressed condition, we are authorized to supply
the condition which involves the moral element in the divine government, viz: obedience upon
the part of man, or men, as the case may be. See Ezekiel 33: 13.

DARWINISM WEIGHED IN THE BALANCES.

Scientists who claim to be followers of Darwin in scientific investigation are known as evolutionists.
The majority of them seem to enjoy themselves very much in opposing the statements of Moses
respecting the creation. It might be well for them to remember that Darwin himself was compelled
by his better sense to declare that science demands a miracle in order to the existence of
the living unit lying at the base of the series of evolution. So after all it remains a fact
that Darwinism is chained to miracle. If Strauss had remembered this he need not have said,
Darwin deserves to be praised as one of the benefactors of the race because of having learned
us how to get rid of miracles. If there is any value in evolution against the Bible it lies
in the use that men make of it to destroy the idea that God created man out of the dust of
the earth and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. Where does Darwinism take you
to to study the origin of man? To the dust of the earth? Not exactly! It takes you to the slime
of the sea, or the mud of the Nile, just one step behind the pulpy mass of protoplasm, or the
moneron. God is there working a miracle; such is Darwinism. According to Moses, He was doing
just as well yonder in Eden working a miracle with the dust of the earth. Now, in all candor,
tell us which statement is most worthy of God, the one that finds the origin of man in the
Eden earth with a miracle wrought upon the dust of the ground, or the one that finds his origin
in a miracle wrought upon the mud of the Nile or the slime of the sea? The one that stands
him up erect, a man, with Godlike attributes, or the one that lays him down in the slimy mass
to pass through ages upon ages in order to get out of his low, slimy paternity and beastly
traits of mere instinct, with groveling habits of life? Darwin, conscious of the axiomatic
truth that no more can be evolved than there is involved, teaches the doctrine that variation
or change of species is brought about by causes which already existed in the common progenitor.
Such being true, we ask: In what link below man, in the great evolutionary chain, is intellect
and moral nature to be found? Sensible men are turning, however, away from the old, threadbare,
worn-out guess-work. The time is not far distant when it will retire once more from scientific
thought. It is very old. Their satyrs or forest divinities were creatures blending the animal
with the human. So Anaximander, although an advocate of the old hypothesis of evolution, was
not the originator of the thought. The old guess-up had its origin in Pagan mythology. The
Fauns of the Roman legend were supposed to be the transition species, or bridge across the
chasm between the brute creation and man—a notion found in Hawthorne’s “Marble Faun.” So it
is plain that evolution, in Darwin’s sense of the term, does not lie between new discoveries
in science and old dogmas in religion, but it does lie between speculation in science and old
dogmas in paganism—poor science, she carries much that does not belong to her! Evolution of
species from other species is an idea found in heathen mythology; it is also found in the ancient
heathen cosmogonies. The God of flocks and shepherds among the Greeks was a compound creature
having the horns and feet of a goat and the face of a man. He was, doubtless, as near an approach
to man as Darwin’s imaginary link at some imaginary point in his imaginary evolution.

This question is not one of progressive order in the same species, but a question relative
to one species rising out of another of lower grade, and especially the development of man
from the lower animals. Agassiz says, “Some have mistaken the action and reaction which exists
everywhere in one and the same species for a causal connection,” that is to say, these influences
produced the species, whereas the species must exist before any such action and reaction can
take place. The action of physical influences, or external surrounding, or environments upon
species could not take place unless the species first existed. Action and reaction in one and
the same species already existing, furnishes no evidence upon the manner in which the species
was first brought into existence. Geology does not teach that species have been evolved from
lower species. Geology declares that new forms are new expressions of creative power. All the
physical forces that were operating upon our earth in the inorganic period, are in operation
now. Why, O why, has it been that the experience and observation of the ages, as well as the
record in the rocks, have failed to give, in all the earth, one sensible demonstration in support
of the proposition that man, or any other species, was evolved from an inferior species? The
answer is easy—blind physical forces were, and are, insufficient to bring into existence living
being. Throughout every department of creation there are evidences of invisible or spiritual
powers that lie behind the events that come under observation in science. Chemical affinity
lies behind, and produces important changes that take place in organic matter. But chemical
affinities do not explain living, organic, being; for we have our existence at the expense
of chemical affinities. The living force, whatever it may be, lies behind chemical affinities,
and controls them. Instinct influences many of the manifestations in animal life, and intelligence
controls the sober conduct of men. Yet above all these there is that wonderful builder and
overseer of the organism called life. As nature was perfect in all her elementary principles
during the inorganic period, and as inertia was, and is, a property of matter, it follows,
necessarily, that life was a new principle, from an immaterial source, otherwise inertia is
not a property of matter; for a thing can not be—exist and not be at the same time.

Vogt reasons in favor of evolution of species from a few abnormal—that is deteriorated—human
beings, which is the mistake spoken of by Agassiz, that action and reaction in one and the
same species produce species. Action and reaction does not produce the species, nor yet another
species. Men and apes have lived side by side for thousands of years. Why is it that apes have
made no advance towards the human form? Poor fellows! An ape is always an ape, and a man is
always a man. The geological record upon the rocks is in favor of man’s existence as man by
creative interposition. The evolution hypothesis rests its conclusions upon effects that well-known
causes have never been known to produce, for the evolution of species from lower species was
never known anywhere in history or fact. Countless ages form the basis of the system, without
which it could not have brought about the present order of things. But an infinite series of
life forms upon our earth could not be possible, for it has been shown, allowing that the heat
has passed out of our earth uniformly, as it does at present, that inside of a comparatively
limited period in the past, it must have been so intensely hot as to have been capable of melting
a mass of rock equal to the bulk of the whole earth. Yet Darwin has his half developed—imaginary
animals strewn along there in the infinite ages of the past. Men may get around this difficulty
by disregarding the facts of science and of common sense, or by doing as Tyndall did; that
is, by taking up the mechanism of the human body, the mind itself, emotion, intellect, will
and all their phenomena, and latentizing them in a fire cloud. Tyndall says: “They were once
latent in a fiery cloud.” Farewell to common sense or Darwinism—which shall it be? Darwin’s
idea that all the causes of evolution were placed in a common progenitor, by a miraculous creation
of that common progenitor is in very poor harmony with his denial of design in nature, and
also in poor harmony with the idea of environments contributing so extensively to the change
of species; for if all the causes were placed in a common progenitor, of course, they are not
to be found in the least degree in environment. If all was placed in a common progenitor, brought
into existence by a miracle, as Darwin teaches, how is design to be excluded from nature? Imperfections
in nature are urged against design in nature by all the school of evolutionists. But what kind
of imperfection is that which is involved in the idea of God creating a common progenitor,
lying at the base of Darwin’s series of evolution, possessing all the causes of all effects
in nature, without designing those effects? What wonderful undesigned results!

There are those, among unbelievers, who profess to see no evidences of a designing intelligence
in all the harmonies of nature, and yet profess to see the far off man behind the old stone
ax. What wonderful intelligence they have! There is no want of intelligence; it is want of
something else, which Christianity requires. I think so much of your common sense that I will
leave you to say what that is. Socrates said: “When I was young it was surprising how earnestly
I desired that species of science which they call physical, for it appeared to me pre-eminently
excellent in bringing us to know the causes of each, through what each is produced and destroyed.
But happening to hear some one read in a book, that it is intelligence which is the parent
of order and cause of all things, I considered that, if it were so, the ordering intelligence
placed each thing where it was best.”

Is mind a development upward from the instinct of the brute creation, or is it an offspring
from God? Man’s reasoning intelligence separates him from the brute by a chasm that no man
can carry the reasoning powers of mind across. All on that side is brutish. The science of
the Bible, dealing with intelligence as its subject, is the highest order of science known
to man. To limit the term science to physical phenomena is unjustifiable, unless matter is
the only substance in the universe, and unless it be true, also, that some things resulting
from matter lie outside of science; for if matter is the one, and only, substance, and if science
deals with all there is, or may be, connected with that substance, then, according to materialists
themselves, its province is to deal with life, mind and religion. But matter is not the only
substance, unless a thing can be, exist, and not be at the same time; for if life is a property
of matter inertia is not, and if mind is a property of matter it must be with all matter everywhere,
or the thing is and is not at one and the same time.

The mind, in all its faculties, lies outside of the domain of the physical sciences. Each man
gets his knowledge of his own mental and moral self-hood, not through the senses, but by his
consciousness. So there is a mental science that looks inward, and a physical science that
looks outward. Break down consciousness and philosophy is ruined. But some ignoramus is ready
to say: What care I for philosophy? Poor fellow! He does not know what philosophy is; his ignorance
is his trouble. Philosophy simply tells us how things are; it answers the question, how is
it? There is nothing in which we are more interested than we are in the how is it? Let us not
ruin philosophy; consciousness is her foundation with us; for in order to knowledge there must
be primary and intuitive beliefs; the man who has no faith in his own ability to see truth,
when it is presented through the medium of the senses, will never come to any definite conclusions
about any thing. So mind is innate, and lies in consciousness, or self-hood, and is at the
bottom of all our knowledge; otherwise we would not, and could not, be men.

Mind is above matter, and virtue and morals are above both in their results. The certainties
are not all confined to physical nature, and hence science should not be. Personality and the
freedom of the will, possessed in consciousness, are as certain as any facts in the physical
world. Truth, justice, right and wrong are equally certain.

WAS IT POSSIBLE?

The miracle of the sun and the moon standing still in the days of Joshua is urged as contrary
to the philosophy of nature, and therefore untrue. That which is simply above the ordinary
is not necessarily contrary to the ordinary. The objection is without value until it be proven
that there is no God; for it is in his power to control the planets. Otherwise he is not omnipotent.
On this very account, it is true, that there is no consistent ground between Christianity and
atheism; for the moment we admit the existence of God, that moment we concede the existence
of the power adequate to the accomplishment of all the miracles of the Bible. Joshua went to
the aid of the Gibeonites against the confederate kings; went up to Gilgal all night, and came
instantaneously upon the enemy; having thrown them into confusion with great slaughter, and
chased them from Gibeon to Beth-horon, in a westerly direction, the Lord co-operating in their
destruction by a great hail-storm, which slew more than the swords of the Israelites, but touched
not the Israelites. In this situation of things the sun appears over Gibeon eastward and the
moon over Ajalon westward.

The entire machinery of nature is no more in the hands of an Omnipotent God than a clock or
watch in the hands of a man. How absurd it is for a man, who believes in God’s existence, to
be emptying out his wicked ridicule, the result of his ignorance or otherwise, of his dishonesty,
upon this miracle? Is not God above his laws? Can not he manipulate, take hold of and handle
the laws of nature?

It is claimed that the miracle was contrary to the philosophy of nature. God out, it would
be true, but God in, it is not. It is conceded by the best of minds that the Bible is in perfect
accord with the Newtonian system; that the sun is the center of the solar system; and the earth,
and all other planets, move round the sun in certain periodical times; that the sun revolves
around his own axis, and round the common center of gravity included in his own surface; that
the solar influence is the cause of the annual and diurnal motions of the earth, and that the
motions of the earth must continue while the solar influence continues to act upon it; that
no power but that of Jehovah can change this solar influence; that he can suspend the operation
of this influence; that he can and does manipulate—handle the laws which he has established—whenever
his wisdom sees proper. It would be degrading to allow that the Almighty One threw this universe
of his under laws over which he has no controlling power.

The miracle wrought upon this occasion was altogether worthy of God. Joshua spoke as if he
knew all about the effect of the solar influence upon our planet; it is this influence that
gives to our earth its diurnal motion, and the arresting of this influence would arrest the
motion of the earth and the day would be lengthened out.

