While the Indian women were thus busily engaged in fitting out the warm apparel necessary for
travelling in such a cold land the boys were making themselves useful, under Mr Ross's guidance,
in overhauling carioles, dog-sleds, harness, robes, snowshoes, and other things essential for
the trip on the morrow.  While almost everything was novel and strange to them, they were most
interested in the heavy dog-whips, and, boylike, must try their hands in wielding them.  These
whips differed very much from anything they had ever seen in civilisation. While the handles
were only eighteen inches in length, the lashes, which were loaded with shot, were over fifteen
feet long.  To skilfully handle one requires much care and practice.  An inexperienced person
is apt to get into trouble when he first attempts to use one.

Sam was the first of the boys to attempt to display his skill, but he soon found that a heavily
loaded dog-whip was a different weapon from an Irish shillalah.  He had admired the skill and
dexterity with which Mr Ross, at the boy's request, had used one, and, foolishly thinking that
he could successfully imitate him, had with any amount of assurance made the attempt.  To his
surprise and chagrin the cracker of the whip, instead of exploding with a pistol-shot-like
report at a spot about fifteen feet away, as it had done for Mr Ross, had by some remarkable
movement, entirely unexpected, squarely landed with stinging effect upon his nose!

Alec was the next to try his skill.  He was a little more successful than Sam, in that he escaped
inflicting any injury upon himself, but he succeeded in striking Frank upon his ear, although
he stood fully six feet away from the spot at which Alec had aimed.  Frank, with his ear hot
and stinging from the effects of the blow so unexpected and so unintentionally given, wisely
decided that he would postpone his first attempt with a weapon that seemed to be as uncertain
as a boomerang.

To the great delight of the boys, as Mr Ross had predicted, toward evening in came Kinesasis
with about a dozen dogs at his heels.  The splendid animals were delighted to get home again
after their long summer's outing, and joyously they greeted Mr Ross and the other inmates of
the household.  To our three boys, who had arrived since their departure, they were somewhat
distant and unsociable.  It is a well-known fact that the native dogs are much more hostile
to white people than to the natives.  This offishness and even hostility on the part of the
dogs did not much disturb the boys.  They, boylike, had all confidence in themselves that by
tact and kindness they would soon become warm friends, and in this they were not disappointed.
After Kinesasis had seen the dogs well fed and put into their kennels he was taken into the
kitchen and given a hearty meal.  A pipe of tobacco was then put in his hands, and shortly
after he had begun to smoke he made his report of his summer's doings to Mr Ross.

To the great delight of Frank, Alec, and Sam, Mr Ross was able to inform them that the number
of young dogs of the right age to break into work was so large that he would be able to furnish
each of them with a capital train, which they should have charge of and call their own as long
as they remained in the country.

The few short hours of sunshine of that November day sped away all too soon for the completion
of the work to be done, and so by lamplight willing hands toiled on until everything was ready
for the journey.  So rapidly did the temperature fall, and so intense became the cold, that
Mr Ross decided that with careful, experienced Kinesasis as their guide the ice would be quite
strong enough to bear them on the morrow, and so if the storm was not too severe they would
be off as soon as there was sufficient light, as it was too risky to travel in the dark over
such thin ice.

