LORD MILNER'S WORK IN SOUTH AFRICA

FROM ITS COMMENCEMENT IN 1897 TO THE PEACE OF VEREENIGING IN 1902

CONTAINING HITHERTO UNPUBLISHED INFORMATION

BY W. BASIL WORSFOLD

WITH PORTRAITS AND MAP

     "What would have been the position to-day in South Africa if
     there had not been a man prepared to take upon himself
     responsibility; a man whom difficulties could not conquer, whom
     disasters could not cow, and whom obloquy could never
     move?"--LORD GOSCHEN in the House of Lords, March 29th, 1906

  LONDON
  JOHN MURRAY ALBEMARLE STREET W
  1906

This Edition enjoys copyright in all countries signatory to the Berne Convention, as well as
in the United Kingdom, Ireland, and all British Colonies and Dependencies.

Printed by Hazell, Watson & Viney, Ld., London and Aylesbury.

PREFACE

In sending this book to press I have only two remarks to make by way of preface.

The first is wholly personal. It has been my good fortune to reside twice for a considerable
period in South Africa--first in the neighbourhood of Capetown (1883-5), and afterwards in
Johannesburg (1904-5). During these periods of residence, and also during the long interval
between them, I have been brought into personal contact with many of the principal actors in
the events which are related in this book. While, therefore, no pains have been spared to secure
accuracy by a careful study of official papers and other reliable publications, my information
is not derived by any means exclusively from these sources.

My second remark is the expression of a hope that the contents of this book may be regarded
not merely as a chapter of history, but also as a body of facts essential to the full understanding
of the circumstances and conditions of South Africa, as it is to-day. Since the restoration
of peace--an event not yet five years old--a great change has been wrought in the political
and economic framework of this province of the empire. None the less, with a few conspicuous
exceptions, almost all of the principal actors in these pages are still there; and, presumably,
they are very much the same men now as they were before, and during, the war. And in this connection
it remains to notice an aspect of the South African struggle which transcends all others in
fruitfulness and importance. It was a struggle to keep South Africa not a dependency of Great
Britain, but a part of the empire. The over-sea Britains, understanding it in this sense, took
their share in it. They made their voices heard in the settlement. The service which they thus
collectively performed was great. It would have been infinitely greater if they had been directly
represented in an administration nominally common to them and the mother country. No political
system can be endowed with effective unity--with that organic unity which is the only effective
unity--unless it is possessed of a single vehicle of thought and action. To create this vehicle--an
administrative body in which all parts of the empire would be duly represented--is difficult
to-day. The forces of disunion, which are at work both at home and beyond the seas, may make
it impossible to-morrow.

                                   W. B. W.

  RIDGE, NEAR CAPEL, SURREY,
  October 19th, 1906

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I                                               Page

  DOWNING STREET AND THE MAN ON THE SPOT.................. 1

CHAPTER II

  THE CREED OF THE AFRIKANDER NATIONALISTS............... 48

CHAPTER III

  A YEAR OF OBSERVATION.................................. 75

CHAPTER IV

  UNDER WHICH FLAG?..................................... 130

CHAPTER V

  PLAYING FOR TIME...................................... 188

CHAPTER VI

  THE ULTIMATUM......................................... 253

CHAPTER VII

  THE FALL OF THE REPUBLICS............................. 300

CHAPTER VIII

  THE REBELLION IN THE CAPE COLONY...................... 341

CHAPTER IX

  THE "CONCILIATION" MOVEMENT........................... 373

CHAPTER X

  THE DISARMAMENT OF THE DUTCH POPULATION............... 413

CHAPTER XI

  PREPARING FOR PEACE................................... 470

CHAPTER XII

  THE SURRENDER OF VEREENIGING.......................... 536

INDEX................................................... 585

ILLUSTRATIONS

  PORTRAIT OF LORD MILNER                      Frontispiece
    From a photograph by Elliott & Fry (Photogravure)

                                            FACING PAGE

  LORD MILNER AT SUNNYSIDE.............................. 473

  MAP OF SOUTH AFRICA........................... At the End

LORD MILNER

CHAPTER I

DOWNING STREET AND THE MAN ON THE SPOT

The failure of British administration in South Africa during the nineteenth century forms a
blemish upon the record of the Victorian era that is at first sight difficult to understand.
If success could be won in Canada, Australia and New Zealand, in India and in Egypt, why failure
in South Africa? For failure it was. A century of wars, missionary effort, British expansion,
industrial development, of lofty administrative ideals and great men sacrificed, had left the
two European races with political ambitions so antagonistic, and social differences so bitter,
that nothing less than the combined military resources of the colonies and the mother-country
sufficed to compel the Dutch to recognise the British principle of "equal rights for all white
men south of the Zambesi." Among the many contributory causes of failure that can be distinguished,
the two most prominent are the nationality difficulty and the native question. But these are
problems of administration that have been solved elsewhere: the former in Canada and the latter
in India. Or, to turn to agencies of a different order, is the cause of failure to be found
in a grudging nature--the existence of physical conditions that made it difficult for the white
man, or for the white and coloured man together, to wring a livelihood from the soil? The answer
is that the like material disadvantages have been conquered in Australia, India, and in Egypt,
by Anglo-Saxon energy. We might apply the Socratic method throughout, traversing the entire
range of our distinguishable causes; but in every case the inquiry would reveal success in
some other portion of the Anglo-Saxon domain to darken failure in South Africa.

Nevertheless, in so far as any single influence can be assigned to render intelligible a result
brought about by many agencies, various in themselves and operating from time to time in varying
degrees, the explanation is to be found in a little incident that happened in the second year
of the Dutch East India Company's settlement at the Cape of Good Hope. The facts are preserved
for us by the diary which Commander Van Riebeck was ordered to keep for the information of
his employers. Under the date October 19th, 1653, we read that David Janssen, a herdsman, was
found lying dead of assegai wounds, inflicted by the Beechranger Hottentots, while the cattle
placed under his charge were seen disappearing round the curve of the Lion's Head. The theft
had been successfully accomplished through the perfidy of a certain "Harry," a Hottentot chief,
who was living on terms of friendship with the Dutch--a circumstance which was sufficiently
apparent from the fact that the raid was timed to take place at an hour on Sunday morning when
the whole of the little community, with the exception of two sentinels and a second herdsman,
were assembled to hear a sermon from the "Sick-Comforter," Wylant. It was the first conflict
between the Dutch and the natives; for Van Riebeck had been bidden, for various excellent reasons,
to keep on good terms with the Hottentots, and to treat them kindly. But the murder of a white
man was a serious matter. Kindness scarcely seemed to meet the case; and so Van Riebeck applied
to the Directors, the famous Chamber of Seventeen, for definite instructions as to the course
which he must pursue.

[Sidenote: Van Riebeck's difficulty.]

He was told that only the actual murderer of David Janssen (if apprehended) was to be put to
death; that cattle equal in amount to the cattle stolen were to be recovered, but only from
the actual robbers; and that "Harry," if necessary, should be sent to prison at Batavia. But
he was not otherwise to molest or injure the offending Hottentots. Excellent advice, and such
as we should expect from the countrymen of Grotius in their most prosperous era. But unfortunately
it was quite impossible for Van Riebeck, with his handful of soldiers and sailors, planted
at the extremity of the great barbaric continent of Africa, to think of putting it into effect.
He replied that he had no means of identifying the individual wrong-doers, and that the institution
of private property was unknown among the Hottentots. The only method by which the individual
could be punished was by punishing the tribe, and he therefore proposed to capture the tribe
and their cattle. But this was a course of action which was repugnant to the Directors' sense
of justice. It aroused, besides, a vision of reinforcements ordered from Batavia, and of disbursements
quite disproportionate to the practical utility of the Cape station as an item in the system
of the Company. In vain Van Riebeck urged that a large body of slaves and ten or twelve hundred
head of cattle would be a great addition to the resources of the settlement. The Chamber of
Seventeen refused to sanction the proposals of the commander, and, as its own were impracticable,
nothing was done. The Beechranger tribe escaped with impunity, and the Hottentots, as a whole,
were emboldened to make fresh attacks upon the European settlers.

[Sidenote: The Afrikander stock.]

This simple narrative is a lantern that sheds a ray of light upon an obscure subject. Two points
are noticeable in the attitude of the home authority. First, there is its inability to grasp
the local conditions; and second, the underlying assumption that a moral judgment based upon
the conditions of the home country, if valid, must be equally valid in South Africa. By the
time that the home authority had become Downing Street instead of the peripatetic Chamber of
Seventeen, the field of mischievous action over which these misconceptions operated had become
enlarged. The natives were there, as before; but, in addition to the natives, there had grown
up a population of European descent, some thirty thousand in number, whose manner of life and
standards of thought and conduct were scarcely more intelligible to the British, or indeed
to the European mind, than those of the yellow-skinned Hottentot or the brown-skinned Kafir.
A century and a half of the Dutch East India Company's government--a government "in all things
political purely despotic, in all things commercial purely monopolist"--had produced a people
unlike any other European community on the face of the earth. Of the small original stock from
which the South African Dutch are descended, one-quarter were Huguenot refugees from France,
an appreciable section were German, and the institution of slavery had added to this admixture
the inevitable strain of non-Aryan blood. But this racial change was by no means all that separated
the European population in the Cape Colony from the Dutch of Holland. A more potent agency
had been at work. The corner-stone of the policy of the Dutch East India Company was the determination
to debar the settlers from all intercourse--social, intellectual, commercial, and political--with
their kinsmen in Europe. One fact will suffice to show how perfectly this object was attained.
Incredible as it may seem, it is the case that at the end of the eighteenth century no printing-press
was to be found in the Cape Colony, nor had this community of twenty thousand Europeans the
means of knowing the nature of the laws and regulations of the Government by which it was ruled.
So long and complete an isolation from European civilisation produced a result which is as
remarkable in itself as it is significant to the student of South African history. This phenomenon
was the existence, in the nineteenth century, of a community of European blood whose moral
and intellectual standards were those of the seventeenth.

[Sidenote: The nationality difficulty.]

Our dip into the early history of South Africa is not purposeless. It does not, of course,
explain the failure of British administration; but it brings us into touch with circumstances
that were bound to make the task of governing the Cape Colony--a task finally undertaken by
England in 1806--one of peculiar difficulty. The native population was strange, but the European
population was even more strange and abnormal. If we had been left to deal with the native
population alone we should have experienced no serious difficulty in rendering them harmless
neighbours, and have been able to choose our own time for entering upon the responsibilities
involved in the administration of their territories. But, coming second on the field, we were
bound to modify our native policy to suit the conditions of a preexisting relationship between
the white and black races that was not of our creation, and one, moreover, that was in many
respects repugnant to British ideas of justice. Nor was this all. The old European population,
which should have been, naturally, our ally and fellow-worker in the task of native administration,
gradually changed from its original position of a subject nationality to that of a political
rival; and, as such, openly bid against us for the mastership of the native African tribes.

Now when two statesmen are pitted against each other, of whom one is a man whose methods of
attack are limited by nineteenth-century ideas, while the morality of the other, being that
of the seventeenth century, permits him greater freedom of action, it is obvious that the first
will be at a disadvantage. And this would be the case more than ever if the nineteenth-century
statesman was under the impression that his political antagonist was a man whose code of morals
was identical with his own. When once he had learnt that the moral standard of the other was
lower than, or different from, his own, he would of course make allowance for the circumstance,
and he would then be able to contest the position with him upon equal terms. But until he had
grasped this fact he would be at a disadvantage.

Generally speaking, the representatives of the British Government, both Governors and High
Commissioners, soon learnt that neither the natives nor the Dutch population could be dealt
with on the same footing as a Western European. But the British Government cannot be said to
have thoroughly learnt the same lesson until, in almost the last week of the nineteenth century,
the three successive defeats of Stormberg, Magersfontein, and Colenso aroused it to a knowledge
of the fact that we had been within an ace of losing South Africa. Many, indeed, would question
whether even now the lesson had been thoroughly learnt. But, however this may be, it is certain
that throughout the nineteenth century the Home Government wished to treat both the natives
and the Dutch in South Africa on a basis of British ideas; and that by so doing it constantly
found itself in conflict with its own local representatives, who knew that the only hope of
success lay in dealing with both alike on a basis of South African ideas.

As the result of this chronic inability of British statesmen to understand South Africa, it
follows that the most instructive manner of regarding our administration of that country during
the nineteenth century is to get a clear conception of the successive divergences of opinion
between the home and the local authorities.

At the very outset of British administration--during the temporary occupation of the Cape from
1795 to 1808--we find a theoretically perfect policy laid down for the guidance of the early
English Governors in their treatment of the Boers, or Dutch frontier farmers. It is just as
admirable, in its way, as were the instructions for the treatment of the Hottentots furnished
by the Directors of the Dutch East India Company to Van Riebeck. In a despatch of July, 1800,
the third Duke of Portland, who was then acting as Secretary for the Colonies, writes:

[Sidenote: Non-interference.]

     "Considering the tract of country over which these border
     inhabitants are dispersed, the rude and uncultivated state in
     which they live, and the wild notions of independence which
     prevail among them, I am afraid any attempts to introduce
     civilisation and a strict administration of justice will be slow
     in their progress, and likely, if not proceeded upon with caution
     and management, rather to create a spirit of resistance, or to
     occasion them to emigrate still further from the seat of
     government, than answer the beneficent views with which they
     might be undertaken. In fact, it seems to me the proper system of
     policy to observe to them is to interfere as little as possible
     in their domestic concerns and interior economy; to consider them
     rather as distant communities dependent upon the Government than
     as subjects necessarily amenable to the laws and regulations
     established within the precincts of Government. Mutual advantages
     arising from barter and commerce, and a strict adherence to good
     faith and justice in all arrangements with them, joined to
     efficient protection and occasional acts of kindness on the part
     of the Government, seem likely to be the best means of securing
     their attachment."

Who would have thought that this statement of policy, admirable as it is at first sight, contained
in itself the germ of a political heresy of the first magnitude? Yet so it was. The principle
of non-interference, here for the first time enunciated and subsequently followed with fatal
effect, could not be applied by a nineteenth-century administration to the case of a seventeenth-century
community without its virtually renouncing the functions of government. Obviously this was
not the intention of the home authority. There remained the difficulty of knowing when to apply,
and when not to apply, the principle; and directly a specific case arose there was the possibility
that, while the local authority, with a full knowledge of the local conditions, might think
interference necessary, the home authority, without such knowledge, might take an opposite view.

[Sidenote: Slaghter's Nek.]

A very few years sufficed to show that the most ordinary exercise of the functions of government
might be regarded as an "interference with the domestic concerns and interior economy" of the
European subjects of the British Crown in South Africa. At the time of the permanent occupation
of the Cape (1806) the population of the colony consisted of three classes: 26,720 persons
of European descent, 17,657 Hottentots, and 29,256 returned as slaves. One of the first measures
of the British Governor, Lord Caledon, was the enactment of a series of regulations intended
to confer civil rights on the Hottentots, while at the same time preventing them from using
their freedom at the expense of the European population. From the British, or even European
point of view, this was a piece of elementary justice to which no man could possibly take exception.
As applied to the conditions of the Franco-Dutch population in the Cape Colony it was, in fact,
a serious interference with their "domestic concerns and internal economy." And as such it
produced the extraordinary protest known to history as the "Rebellion" of Slaghter's Nek. There
was no question as to the facts. Booy, the Hottentot, had completed his term of service with
Frederick Bezuidenhout, the Boer, and was therefore entitled, under the Cape law, to leave
his master's farm, and to remove his property. All this Bezuidenhout admitted; but when it
came to a question of yielding obedience to the magistrate's order, the Boer said "No." In
the words of Pringle, "He boldly declared that he considered this interference between him
(a free burgher) and his Hottentot to be a presumptuous innovation upon his rights, and an
intolerable usurpation of tyrannical authority."

And the danger of allowing the Boers to pursue their seventeenth-century dealings with the
natives became rapidly greater when the European Colonists, Dutch and English, were brought,
by their natural eastward expansion, into direct contact with the masses of military Bantu
south and east of the Drakenberg chain of mountains--the actual dark-skinned "natives" of South
Africa as it is known to the people of Great Britain. The Boer frontiersman, with his aggressive
habits and ingrained contempt for a dark-skin, disintegrated the Bantu mass before we were
ready to undertake the work of reconstruction. And therefore the local British authority soon
learnt that non-interference in the case of the Boer generally meant the necessity of a much
more serious interference at a subsequent date with both Boer and Kafir. And so non-interference,
in the admirable spirit of the Duke of Portland's despatch, came to bear one meaning in Downing
Street and quite another in Capetown.

[Sidenote: D'Urban's policy.]

The earliest of the three crucial "divergences of opinion," to which collectively the history
of our South African administration owes its sombre hue, was that which led to the reversal
of Sir Benjamin D'Urban's frontier policy by Charles Grant (afterwards Lord Glenelg) at the
end of the year 1835. The circumstances were these. On Christmas Day, 1834, the Kafirs (without
any declaration of war, needless to say) invaded the Cape Colony, murdering the settlers in
the isolated farms, burning their homesteads, and driving off their cattle. After a six months'
campaign, in which the Dutch and British settlers fought by the side of the regular troops,
a treaty was made with the Kafir chiefs which, in the opinion of D'Urban and his local advisers,
would render the eastern frontier of the Colony secure from further inroads. The Kafirs were
to retire to the line of the Kei River, thus surrendering part of their territory to the European
settlers who had suffered most severely from the invasion; while a belt of loyal Kafirs, supported
by a chain of forts, was to be interposed between the defeated tribes and the colonial farmsteads.
In addition to these measures, D'Urban proposed to compensate the settlers for the enormous
losses[1] which they had incurred; since, as a contemporary and not unfriendly writer[2] puts
it, the British Government had exposed them for fourteen years to Kafir depredations, rather
than acknowledge the existence of a state of affairs that must plainly have compelled it to
make active exertions for their protection.

         [Footnote 1: The official returns showed that 456 farm-houses
         had been wholly, and 350 partially, destroyed; and that 60
         waggons, 5,715 horses, 111,930 head of horned cattle, and
         161,930 sheep had been carried off by the Kafirs. And this
         apart from the remuneration claimed by the settlers for
         services in the field, and commandeered cattle and supplies.]

         [Footnote 2: Cloete. See note, p. 16.]

The view of the home authority was very different. In the opinion of His Majesty's ministers
at Downing Street the Kafir invasion was the result of a long series of unjustifiable encroachments
on the part of the European settlers. D'Urban was instructed, therefore, to reinstate the Kafirs
in the districts from which they had retired under the treaty of September, 1835, and to cancel
all grants of land beyond the Fish River--the original eastern boundary of the Colony--which
the Colonial Government had made to its European subjects from 1817 onwards; while, as for
compensation, any indemnity was altogether out of the question, since the colonists had only
themselves to thank for the enmity of the natives--if, indeed, they had not deliberately provoked
the war with a view to the acquisition of fresh territory.

The divergence between these two opinions is sufficiently well marked. To trace the precise
agencies through which two diametrically opposed views were evolved on this occasion from the
same groundwork of facts would be too lengthy a business; but, by way of comment, we may recall
two statements, each significant and authentic. Cloete, writing while the events in question
were still fresh in his mind, says of Lord Glenelg's despatch: "A communication more cruel,
unjust, and insulting to the feelings not only of Sir Benjamin D'Urban ... but of the inhabitants
... could hardly have been penned by a declared enemy of the country and its Governor." And
Sir George Napier, by whom D'Urban was superseded, stated in evidence given before the House
of Commons: "My own experience, and what I saw with my own eyes, have confirmed me that I was
wrong and Sir Benjamin D'Urban was perfectly right; that if he meant to keep Kafirland under
British rule, the only way of doing so was by having a line of forts, and maintaining troops
in them."

[Sidenote: The Great Trek.]

This settlement of a South African question upon a basis of British, or rather non-South African,
ideas was followed by events as notorious as they were disastrous. It must be remembered that
in 1819-20 the first and only effort to introduce a considerable British population into South
Africa had been successfully carried out when the "Albany" settlers, to the number of some
five thousand, were established in this and other districts upon the eastern border of the
Cape Colony. The colonial farmers who suffered from the Kafir invasion of 1834-5 were not exclusively
Boers. Among them there were many members of the new British population, and the divergence
of opinion between D'Urban and Lord Glenelg was all the more significant, since in this case
the British settlers were in agreement with the Boers. It was no longer merely a divergence
of views as between the local and the home authority, but as between the British in Britain
and the British in South Africa. It must also be remembered that, in the same year as the Kafir
invasion, a social revolution--the emancipation of slaves--had been accomplished in the Cape
Colony by an Act of the British Parliament, in comparison with which the nationalisation of
the railways or of the mines in England would seem a comparatively trifling disturbance of
the system of private property to the Englishman of to-day. The reversal of D'Urban's arrangements
for the safety of the eastern frontier was not only bad in itself, but it came at a bad time.
Whether the secession of the Emigrant Farmers would in any case have taken place as the result
of the emancipation of slaves is a matter which cannot now be decided. But, however this may
be, the fact remains that two men so well qualified to give an opinion on the subject as Judge
Cloete and Sir John Robinson, the first Prime Minister of Natal, unhesitatingly ascribe the
determining influence which drove the Boers to seek a home beyond the jurisdiction of the British
Government to the sense of injustice created by the measures dictated by Lord Glenelg, and
by the whole spirit of his despatch.[3] And this judgment is supported by the fact that the
wealthier Dutch of the Western Province were much more seriously affected by the emancipation
of slaves than the "Boers" of the eastern districts of the Colony; yet it was these latter,
of course, who provided the bulk of the emigrants who crossed the Orange River in the years
of the Great Trek (1835-8) We shall not therefore be drawing an extravagantly improbable conclusion,
if we decide that the movement which divided European South Africa was due to a well-ascertained
divergence of opinion between the home and local authorities--both British.

         [Footnote 3: For the benefit of those who may desire to read
         the passages in which these opinions are expressed, I append
         the references. Cloete's opinion is to be found in his "Five
         Lectures on the Emigration of the Dutch Farmers," delivered
         before the Natal Society and published at Capetown in 1856. A
         reprint of this work was published by Mr. Murray in 1899. Sir
         John Robinson's opinion, which endorses the views of Mrs.
         Anna Elizabeth Steenekamp as expressed in The Cape Monthly
         Magazine for September, 1876, is to be found at pp. 46, 47
         of his "A Lifetime in South Africa" (Smith, Elder, 1900).]

[Sidenote: The birth of the republic.]

[Sidenote: Sir George Grey.]

