THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

Vol. 20, No. 568.] SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1832. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

Little need be said, by way of explanation, for the addition of the present subject to our
collection of the birthplaces of eminent men. It is something to know that John Scott was born
at Newcastle-upon-Tyne, in the principal dwelling represented in the above Engraving, in the
year 1751; that he received the rudiments of his education at the free grammar-school of the
town; that he grew up "a man of safe discretion;" that he enjoyed the highest legal honours
which his sovereign could bestow for a quarter of a century; and that he still lives, a venerable
octogenarian, in the enjoyment of "glory from his conscience, and honour from men." The biography
of so distinguished an individual must have innumerable good tendencies: it at once inculcates
the wholesome truth that "every man is the architect of his own fortune;" and it presents us,
moreover, with the encouraging picture of a well-regulated life, and its healthful energies
so employed in the discharge of important duties as to entitle the subject to high rank among
the worthies of his country.

John Scott, Lord Eldon, is the third son of William Scott, of Newcastle-upon-Tyne. "His father
was by trade what in the language of the place is called a 'fitter,' or agent for the sale
and shipment of coals. He had by industry and habits of close saving accumulated rather considerable
means from small beginnings. Beyond this he was a man of great shrewdness and knowledge of
the world," and quickly perceiving the talents of the two younger boys, William (now Lord Stowell,)
and John, he wisely gave them an education in accordance with their mental endowments. "It
is said that the singular variety in the talent of these two remarkable youths was manifested
at a very early age. When asked to 'give an account of the sermon,' which was a constant Sabbath
custom of their father, William, the eldest, gave at once a condensed and lucid digest of the
general argument. John, on the other hand, would go into all the minutiae, but failed in producing
the lucid, general view embodied in half the number of words by his brother."[1] The two boys
received their early education at the free grammar-school of Newcastle.[2] William was from
the beginning destined for the study of the law. John was at first intended for the church,
and was, accordingly, sent to Oxford: early marriage was, however, the fortunate means of changing
his destination, and he began the world in the same profession with his brother. In 1757, John
was entered as a student at the Middle Temple, and was called to the bar at the usual period.
He at this time possessed an extensive stock of legal information, having been an indefatigable
reader, and spent the two last years of his preliminary studies in the office of a special
pleader. At his outset he made no progress, his powers being palsied by an oppressive diffidence.
He therefore devoted his talents entirely to being a draftsman in Chancery. His employment
was laborious, and not lucrative, while it materially injured his health. In a fit of despondency
he resolved to retire into humble practice in his native county; and he had actually given
up his chambers and taken leave of his friends in the metropolis, when he was not only diverted
from his purpose by an eminent solicitor, but was even prevailed upon to make one more trial
at the bar. His first success was the undoubted fruit of his extraordinary abilities, and is
said to have originated in the sudden illness of a leading counsel the night before the trial
of a complicated civil cause. It could not be put off, and the client of the lost leader was
in despair, when Scott courageously took the brief, made himself in one night master of its
voluminous intricacies, and triumphed. From this time he gained confidence, and his forensic
reputation soon became established. He was much aided by the encouragement which he received
from Lord Thurlow, who praised his abilities, and is said to have offered him a mastership
in Chancery, which Mr. Scott declined.

    [1] Tait's Edinburgh Magazine for the present month.

    [2] At this school also were educated Vice-Admiral Lord
    Collingwood; Sir Robert Chambers; William Elstob, an antiquary
    and divine; the poet, Akenside; the Rev. George Hall, Bishop
    of Dromore; and the Rev. John Brand, author of a history of
    Newcastle, and secretary to the Society of Antiquaries; all of
    whom were born at Newcastle.

In 1783; Mr. Scott obtained a silk gown; and, through Lord Weymouth's interest, he was introduced
into parliament for the borough of Weobly. It is stated that on the latter occasion, he stipulated
for the liberty of voting as he pleased. He took a decided part with the Pitt administration;
and in 1788, he was appointed solicitor-general, and knighted; in 1793, he rose to be attorney-general,
and in the following year he conducted the trial of Hardy, Tooke, and Thelwall, for treason.
Erskine was opposed to him; and the prosecution failed, though the speech of the attorney-general
occupied nine hours in the delivery.

In 1799, Sir John Scott was appointed to the chief justiceship of the Common Pleas, on the
resignation of Chief Justice Eyre; and in the same year he was raised to the peerage by the
title of Baron Eldon. In 1801, he was made Lord Chancellor, which high office he retained till
the year 1827, with the exception of the short period during which the Whigs were in office,
in 1806. His lordship was raised to the dignity of an earl at the coronation of George IV. in 1821.

The high character of the Earl of Eldon as Chancellor is thus lucidly drawn by Sir Egerton
Brydges: "Of all who, in the long lapse of ages, have filled the sacred seat on which he now
(1823) sits, none ever had purer hands, none ever had a conscientious desire of equity more
ardent and more incessant than Lord Eldon. The amazing expanse of his views, the inexpressible
niceness of his discrimination, his unrelaxing anxiety to do justice in every individual case,
the kindness of his heart, and the ductility of his ideas, all ensure that attention to every
suitor which must necessarily obtain the unbounded admiration and attachment of the virtuous
and the wise. Lord Eldon's eloquence," continues Sir Egerton, "is rather adapted to cultivated
and thinking minds than to a popular audience. It generally addresses the understanding rather
than the fancy. It frequently wants fluency, but occasionally is tinged with a high degree
of moral pathos."

We could illustrate the conscientious character alluded to by the above writer, with anecdotes
of the chancellorship of Lord Eldon. As the following have, we believe, but once appeared in
print, they may not, be familiar to the reader. Sir Richard Phillips relates:[3] "In conversation
with Mr. Butterman, (at Dronfield), I heard two anecdotes of Lord Eldon, which, as an example
to Lord Chancellors, and to public spirited parishioners, I consider it my duty to introduce.
The incumbent, some years ago, thought proper to propose an exchange with an incompetent clergyman;
when Mr. B., as a friend to the church, and some of his respectable neighbours took alarm at
the negotiation, and in the commencement he penned a letter to the Chancellor. The other parties
calculated on the arrangement, but, on applying to the Chancellor he could consent to no exchange,
but that if the parties were tired of their positions, they might respectively resign, and
there were plenty of candidates. The determination was final, and the scheme of exchange was
abandoned. In another instance, a master had been regularly appointed to the grammar school
at Dronfield, on liberal principles of education, but, within a few years, some prejudice was
excited against him, and the churchwardens for the time thought proper to stop his salary.
On this occasion, Mr. B. and some friends combined in an application to Lord Eldon, and his
lordship instantly directed the churchwardens to render an account of the trust within a few
days. They claimed time, and were allowed a month, when, without other form, he directed the
salary to be paid to the appointed master, with all expenses."

    [3] In his Personal Tour through the United Kingdom, Part iii.

Newcastle contains memorials of Lord Eldon which indicate that the inhabitants are proud of
their distinguished fellow-freeman. A spacious range of elegant buildings is called Eldon Square:
and in the Guildhall is a portrait of his lordship, opposite that of his brother, Lord Stowell.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WEARIED SOLDIER.

  "When silent time, wi' lightly foot,
    Had trod o'er thirty years,
  I sought again, my native land,
    Wi' many hopes and fears."
                        MRS. HAMILTON.

  He came to the village, when the sun
    In the "golden west" was bright,
  When sounds were dying one by one,
    And the vesper star was shining down,
  With a soft and silvery light.

  A war-worn wanderer was he,
    And absent many a year
  From the cottage-home he fain would see,
    From that resting-place where he would be,
  The spot to memory dear.

  It rose at last upon his view,
    (Old times were thronging round him,)
  The lattice where the jasmine grew,
    The meadow where he brush'd the dew
  When youth's bright hopes were round him.

  But faces new, and sadly strange,
    Were in that cottage now;
  Cold eyes, that o'er his features range,
    For time had wrought a weary change
  Upon the soldier's brow.

  And some there were--the lov'd--the dead--
    Whom he no more could see,
  From this cold changing world were fled,
    And they had found a quiet bed
  Beneath the old yew tree.

  And thither too--the wanderer hied,
    Night-dews were falling fast,
  This is my "welcome home" he cried,
    And the chill breezes low replied
  In murmurs as they pass'd.

  They whispering said, or seem'd to say,
    No lasting joys to earth are given,
  No longer near these ashes stray,
    Go, mourner! hence, away! away!
  Thy lost ones are in heaven.

  Kirton, Lindsey.         ANNE R.

       *       *       *       *       *

RELIGIOUS FASTINGS.

From the remotest ages of antiquity most nations have practised fasting to keep the wrath of
God from falling upon them for their sins. Some celebrated authors even affirm that fasting
was originated by Adam after he had eaten of the forbidden fruit; but this obviously is carrying
their arguments, in favour of fasting, too far, though it is as certain that the Jewish churches
practised it from their first formation. The Egyptians, Phoenicians, and the Assyrians held
the "solemn fast" in high favour. The Egyptians, according to Herodotus, before they offered
in sacrifice the cow to Isis, to purify themselves from impurities, fasted and prayed. This
custom he also ascribes to the Cyrenian women. Porphyry relates that the fasts of the Egyptians
were sometimes continued for six weeks, and that the shortest ordained by their priests was
seven days, during which they abstained from nearly all kinds of food. These rites they communicated
to the Greeks, who observed these fasts more strictly, and with more outward show and solemnity.
The Athenians likewise observed stated fasts, two of which were named "the Elusinian and Thesmoporian
fasts;" the observation of these fasts was extremely rigid, especially amongst women, who,
in mournful dresses, spent one whole day sitting on the ground (their sign of grief,) without
taking the least food. The islanders of Crete, before sacrificing to Jupiter, had to abstain
from food. A celebrated ancient author informs us, that those who wished to be initiated into
the secrets of Cybele, fasted ten days before their initiation; and that, in short, the priests
who gave the oracles, and those who came to consult them, had to perform this duty.

Amongst other Heathen nations, before they prepared for any important enterprise, the whole
expedition fasted. The Lacedemonians having agreed to aid an ally, ordained a fast throughout
their nation, and without even excepting their domestic animals. The Romans having besieged
the city of Tarentum, and the city being hard pressed, the citizens demanded succour of their
friends, the inhabitants of Rhegium; who, preparatory to granting assistance to the besieged,
commanded that a fast should be held throughout their territories. Their aid having proved
successful, the government of Tarentum to commemorate this important event, ordained a perpetual
fast on the day of their deliverance.

Philosophers and certain religious people have for ages reckoned fasting as a service which
led to important results, and a duty which could not be dispensed with without causing the
wrath of God to fall upon the heads of the nation. At Rome it was practised even by the emperors.
Amongst the most remarkable for keeping this institution were Numa Pompilius, Julius Caesar,
Vespasian, &c. Julian, the apostate, was so exact in the performance of this ordinance, that
the fasting of the philosophers and of the priests themselves, was as nothing compared with
his abstinence. Pythagoras fasted sometimes as long as forty days; his disciples followed the
example of their master; and after his death they kept a continual fast, in which they denounced
the inhabitants of the deep as well as the creatures of the meadow. The eastern Brahmins are
remarkable for their fasting; but as the people believe they regale themselves with the good
things of this life, in secret, their example gains not many followers. That nation which reckons
itself infinitely superior to us "poor barbarians," the Chinese, also observe stated seasons
of fasting and prayer. The Mahomedans likewise strictly observe fasting and prayer, and the
exactness with which the dervishes perform them, and the lengths of time of their fasts are
very remarkable.

The Israelites were commanded by Jehovah himself to fast on the appearance of any plague, famine,
war, &c.; and though they sadly neglected the commands of God in other particulars, yet they
obeyed this command with great devotedness. The abstinence of the ancient Jews generally lasted
from twenty-six to twenty-seven hours. On these days they wore sackcloth, laid themselves in
ashes, and sprinkled them on their heads, in token of their great grief and penitence. Some
spent the whole night in the synagogue; occasionally using with great effect a scourge as a
penance for their sins, or as a stimulant to devout behaviour. We think it is not improbable
that it is from the Jews that the Roman Catholics derived their scourging penance system.

In "happy smiling England," fasting was, and is, practised by the Catholics every Friday; it
was also practised by the fathers of the church, and the primitive Protestants, at stated seasons.
The custom is still observed amongst the methodists, who follow the example of their great
leader, Wesley. The rust of time has, however, worn away the veneration for this "good old
system," and it is totally disused by the general body of Protestants, except on great national
occasions.

E.J.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS AND CUSTOMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHERIFFS OF LONDON.

    [The subsequent paper extracted from Mr. Brayley's
    laboriously-compiled Londiniana possesses more than a
    passing interest. Its neatness and perspicuity as a Journal
    will doubtless be appreciated by the reader.]

The following particulars relating to the office of Sheriff, are derived from a manuscript
copy of the Journal of Richard Hoare, Esq. during the year of his Shrievalty, in 1740-41, in
his own hand-writing, which is now in the possession of his grandson, Sir Richard Colt Hoare,
Bart., of Stourhead, in Wiltshire. The above year became memorable in the city annals, from
their having been three Lord Mayors during its progress, viz. Sir John Salter, knight; Humphry
Parsons, Esq., and Daniel Lambert, Esq.

Mr. Hoare, who was a banker, in Fleet Street, and principal of the respectable house which,
instituted by one of his predecessors, still bears the family name, was elected alderman of
the Ward of Farringdon Without, on St. George's day, 1740, in the place of Sir Francis Child,
who died on the preceding Sunday, April the 20th. This honour was conferred upon him, whilst
he was at Bath, and quite unexpectedly; and equally so, was his election to the Sheriffdom,
conjointly with Mr. Alderman Marshall, on the midsummer-day following. Shortly afterwards they
gave bonds under the penalty of 1,000l. to undertake and enter upon the office on the ensuing
Michaelmas eve; and "thereupon, became each entitled to 100l. out of the forfeitures of those,
who had this year been nominated to be sheriff's by my Lord Mayor, but had paid their fines
to be excused."

In the intermediate time they prepared for the due execution of their duties, chose their under-sheriff's,
&c.; and, "as it is customary for each sheriff to preside over the two Counters separately,
my brother Marshall chose that in the Poultry, and the care of Wood-street Counter was under
my direction, and we agreed, at our joint expense, to give the usual livery gowns to the officers
of both, although they are greater in number at the Poultry than in mine; in recompense for
which, it was settled that we should equally share in the sale of the places upon any vacancy."

On Sunday, the 28th of September, the sheriffs elect met at ten o'clock in the morning, at
Drapers' Hall, "and there entertained several of the Court of Aldermen, and sixteen of the
Court of Assistance of each of the Companies, viz: the Goldsmiths and the Drapers, with the
usual breakfast of roast beef, burnt wine," &c. He continues,--

"Upon notice sent to us, that the Lord Mayor, with George Heathcote, and Sir John Lequesne,
aldermen and sheriffs for the last year were attending at the council chamber, Guildhall, we
all repaired thither; the gentlemen of the Court of Assistance walking two by two, the senior
sheriff's company on the right hand, the aldermen following in their coaches; in which, we,
though sheriffs-elect, took our rank as aldermen. Upon coming up to the area of Guildhall,
the two companies made a lane for the aldermen to pass through, and after having waited on
my Lord Mayor to Guildhall Chapel, to hear divine service, we returned back to the court of
the hustings, which being opened by the common cryer, we were summoned to come forth and take
the oath of office; which we accordingly did, together with the oaths of allegiance and abjuration;
and the same was also administered to Mr. Tims, (clerk to St. Bartholomews,) as under-sheriff,
he kneeling all the while.

"When this was over, the gold chains were taken off from the former sheriffs, and put on us;
and then the court being dissolved, the Lord Mayor went home, attended by the former sheriffs,
and we returned back to Drapers' Hall to our dinner, provided for the Court of Aldermen and
Courts of Assistance, at which the senior alderman took the chair as president, and the rest
of the aldermen and gentlemen of Guildhall took their places at the upper table, whilst we,
the sheriffs, sat at the head of the second table, with the gentlemen of the Courts of Assistance
of our two companies. When dinner was over, and the healths of the royal family were drunk,
the cryer proclaimed the health and prosperity to the two sheriffs' companies in the following
manner; that is to say, 'Prosperity to the worshipful Company of Drapers, and prosperity to
the worshipful Company of Goldsmiths: to the Goldsmiths and Drapers, and Drapers and Goldsmiths,
prosperity to both:' and this is so usually done, naming each company first alternately, to
prevent any dispute concerning preference or priority.

"After dinner, we all retired to one table in the inner room, at which we, though sheriffs,
were placed underneath all the aldermen; for whatever rank an alderman may be in point of seniority,
yet during the year he serves as sheriff, he is to give place, and follow the rest of his brethren,
both at the court, and all processions and entertainments. About six o'clock, the late sheriffs,
having left the Lord Mayor at his house, attended us to Guildhall, where we were met by our
own and the former under-sheriffs, together with the secondaries and keepers of the prisons;
and the names of the respective prisoners in each gaol being read over, the keepers acknowledged
them one by one, to be in their custody; and then tendered us the keys, which we delivered
back to them again, and after having executed the indentures, whereby we covenanted and undertook
the charge of our office, we were invited according to custom, to an adjoining tavern; and
there partook of an entertainment of sack and walnuts, provided by the aforesaid keepers of
the prisons.

"Monday, September 29th. This being Michaelmas-day, my brother sheriff and I set out for the
first time in our new equipages and scarlet gowns, attended by our beadles, and the several
officers of our Counters, and waited on the Lord Mayor, at Merchant Taylors' Hall, at which
he kept his mayoralty, and proceeded with him from thence, as is customary, to Guildhall, where
the livery-men of the city were summoned to attend at the Court of Hustings for the election
of a new lord mayor for the year ensuing. The recorder made a speech to the livery-men, 'apprising
them of the custom and manner of choosing a lord mayor; which, he observed, was for the Common
Hall to nominate two of the aldermen who had served sheriffs, to the Court of Aldermen, who
had then a right to elect either of them into that great office, and which ever that the court
so fixed on, the Common Hall was bound to accept.' When he had ended, the Lord Mayor and Court
of Aldermen retired into the Council Chamber, and left us to preside at the election, attended
by the Common Sergeant and other officers. The method of voting is, by each alderman going
up to the recorder and town clerk, who sit at a separate part of the room, and telling the
person he would choose, a scratch is made under each respective name."

On the day following, the two sheriffs again went to Guildhall, with the same company as on
the preceding day, and waiting on the Lord Mayor in the Council Chamber, requested that his
lordship and the recorder would present them at his Majesty's Court of Exchequer. Each sheriff
then paid the usual fees, viz. 6l. 13s. 4d. to the Lord Mayor, and 3l. 6s. 8d. to the recorder;
after which, they proceeded to the Three Cranes' Stairs, in Upper Thames Street, "the Lord
Mayor first; we, the sheriffs, next; the recorder and aldermen following in coaches, the companies
walking before us.

"From thence we went to Westminster in the city barge, taking place of all the aldermen: and
our two companies attended in the Goldsmiths' barge, as before agreed on, adorned with half
the colours, and rowed with half the watermen belonging to the Drapers' company. On landing,
the companies went first, the Lord Mayor next, then the recorder with a sheriff on each side,
and last the aldermen. On our approaching the bar of the Exchequer [in Westminster Hall,] the
recorder, in a speech, presented us to the Court, one of the Barons being seated there for
that purpose, signifying the choice the citizens had made, and that, in pursuance of our charter,
we were presented to his Majesty's justices for his royal approbation; and the Baron accordingly
approving the choice, he, and the Clerks of the Exchequer, were invited to our dinner; then
the late sheriffs were sworn to their accounts, and made their proffers; and the senior alderman
present cut one twig in two, and bent another, and the officers of the court counted six horse-shoes
and hob-nails.

"This formality, it is said, is passed through each year, by way of suit and service for the
citizens holding some tenements in St. Clement's Danes, as also some other lands; but where
they are situated no one knows, nor doth the city receive any rents or profits thereby.

"This done, we returned in the same order to the Three Cranes, and from thence, in our coaches,
to dinner at Drapers' Hall; where my Lord Mayor, aldermen, gentlemen of Guildhall, and guests
invited, dined at one table, and we, the sheriff's, at the head of another, with the Court
of Assistance of each of our companies: and the Clerks of the Exchequer by themselves at another
table. After dinner, the Lord Mayor, aldermen, &c. returned into a separate room, where we
sat with them at the head of the table, one on each side of the Lord Mayor; our two companies
were in another room, and the greatest part of the Clerks of the Exchequer remained in the hall."

On the 7th of October they "settled a point," with the keeper of Newgate in regard to the transportation
of felons. That was, that the keeper should deliver them to the merchant, "who contracts to
carry them over," at the door of Newgate, and there discharge himself of any further custody;
but leaving him and his officers the privilege of protecting them down to the water side, according
to any private agreement between him and the merchant; it being fully understood that the sheriffs
should not be responsible for their charge "from the time of their first delivery."

(TO BE CONCLUDED IN OUR NEXT.)

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

STEAM CARRIAGES ON COMMON ROADS.

    (From Mr. Alexander Gordon's Treatise on Elemental
    Locomotion. Concluded from page 185.)

We do not advocate any thing so preposterous as the change of the whole animate power of Great
Britain into inanimate, though in this the political economist can see the solution of all
our Malthusian difficulties to an indefinite extent and duration. What we urge is merely the
partial adoption of the thing to such an extent as will relax the present pressure, and restore
us to a wholesome state of national prosperity. This will occasion no dangerous experiment,
and will be gradually followed up by a progressive conversion, by which all the conflicting
interests of society will be neutralized, and the aggregate wealth, and prosperity, and happiness
of the empire be equalized.

If then elemental locomotion can he made to substitute the expensive, unproductive system of
animate labour now in use, it will indubitably be for the vital interest of all classes of
society that the substitution should be realized speedily and extensively. That steam can be
so applied has been satisfactorily proved. The report of the Committee of the House of Commons
establishes this. But the evidence of several of the enlightened and practical witnesses who
were examined before that committee bears with too much emphasis upon the detail of the commercial
and economic advantages of the project we have just been attempting to enumerate and advocate,
for us not to avail ourselves of it even at this early stage of our work. It being quite decisive
in support of the grand conclusion to which the said committee came after three months of patient
and thorough investigation of the subject, viz. "That the substitution of inanimate for animate
power is one of the most important improvements in the means of internal communication ever
introduced."

    [Then follow extracts from the evidence of Messrs. Torrens,
    John Farey, Davies Gilbert, and Goldsworthy Garney.]

In viewing the moral advantages which must result from steam-carriages, we find them of no
less importance. There are but few so constitutionally indifferent to acceleration in travelling
as the Hollander, who delighted in the "old, solemn, straight-forward, regular Dutch canal
speed--three miles an hour for expresses, and two for joy or trot journeys." Acceleration in
the speed of travelling, if unaccompanied by danger, is eagerly sought after, because the period
of discomfort is lessened. But steam-carriages will not only lessen the discomfort by shortening
its duration; they can be so equipped that positive comfort, nay, luxury, may be enjoyed. A
steam-engine is perfectly under control, and consequently much more safe than horses. The life
of the traveller cannot be jeoparded by the breaking of a rein, horses being frightened, running
off, &c. &c.; the steamer, it will be seen, the honourable Committee report to the House "is
perfectly safe for passengers."

The actual casualties of stage-coaches, however, we may observe, bear no proportion to the
loss of lives from consumption and other diseases occasioned by cold and wet, from exposure
on the top of coaches.[4]

    [4] It appears from the newspapers that on the night of the
    25th of February, 1812, three outside passengers were found
    dead on the roof of the Bath coach, from the inclemency of the
    weather.

Let us consider also how far humanity is outraged by the present system of quick travelling.
The short average life of stage-coach horses (three years only!) shows how dreadfully over-wrought
and out-wrought they are by the great speed now in practice. Driven for eight or ten miles,
with an oppressive weight, they tremble in every nerve. With nostrils distended, and sides
moving in breathless agony, they can scarce, when unyoked, crawl to the stable. 'Tis true they
are well fed; the interest of their owners secures that. They are over-well fed, in order that
a supernatural energy may be exerted. The morrow comes when their galled withers are again
to be wrung by the ill-cushioned collars, and the lumbering of the wheels. But we do not witness
all the misery of the noble and the generous steed. When the shades of night impend, the reproaches
of the feeling, or the expostulations of the timid traveller no longer protect him from the
lash; and the dread of Mr. Martin's act ceases to effect for a time its beneficent purpose;
when the stiffened joints--the cracked hoofs--the greasy legs--and stumbling gait of the worn-out
animal are all put into agonized motion by belabouring him upon the raw! The expression is
Hibernian, but the brutality is our own. A few ill-gained pounds reconcile the enormity to
the owner--and the cheapness and expedition of the conveyance give it public sanction: but
humanity is outraged by the same: human sympathies are seared; and the noble precept, that
"the merciful man is merciful to his beast," is trampled under foot.

