In the battle of the 6th of October, in which the 49th was not engaged, the English and Russians,
after gaining some advantage, were suddenly charged by the enemy's cavalry and separated, so
that they could neither support each other nor retain the ground which they had gained. The
allied armies were repulsed beyond Baccum, after having sustained a very severe loss; and as
they were unable either to advance or to draw any resources from the country in their possession,
their supplies were necessarily obtained from the fleet. The Duke of York, therefore, assembled
a council of war, whose decision was, that the allied forces should fall back and wait the
instructions of the British Government. As the season was so far advanced, as the approach
of winter was daily making the navigation of the coast more dangerous, and as there was no
time to effect diversions or to change the plan of operations, the Duke of York was ordered
to evacuate the country. In the meanwhile, as the English and Russians concentrated themselves
behind their entrenchments at the Zyp, the enemy pressed upon them, and the Duke of York sent
a flag of truce to General Brune, proposing a capitulation on the basis of an armistice, or
of the free embarkation of his army. This was agreed to at Alkmaar, on the 18th of October,
and thus ended this memorable expedition, the most considerable that had been attempted in
modern times up to that period. As the introduction of foreign troops into England was prohibited
by the Bill of Rights, the Russians were sent to the islands of Jersey and Guernsey, the season
not admitting of their return home. About 6,000 were quartered in the latter island, where
a disease, contracted by exposure to the marshy grounds of Holland, carried off some hundreds,
who were buried at the foot of the hill on which stands Vale Castle, and where their graves
are still to be seen. Their conduct in Guernsey was at first peaceable and orderly;--the inhabitants
were surprised at seeing them eat the grease from the cart wheels, and they were also excessively
fond of ardent spirits; and, having plenty of money, they indulged in them freely, swallowing
large draughts in a raw state. But in June, 1800, while the transports were in the roads to
convey them to Russia, a soldier, who was robbing vegetables on a small farm, which had been
frequently plundered by his comrades before, was fired at and wounded by the proprietor. This
so exasperated the whole body, that fears were entertained of their revenging themselves on
the inhabitants generally; and as the British garrison was very small, it required all the
tact and conciliation of the lieutenant-governor, Sir Hew Dalrymple, to prevent an outbreak.
The Russians embarked, but the guns at Castle Cornet were kept shotted to prevent their relanding.[13]
The 49th, on the return of the expedition from Holland, after remaining a short time in England,
was again quartered in Jersey, where the fine person and manly bearing of Lieut.-Colonel Brock
are still favorably remembered. In return for the many attentions which he and his officers
received in that island, he obtained an ensigncy in his own regiment for a young man resident
there, whom he afterwards pushed forward in the service, and who died recently a major-general
and a companion of the bath. Early in the year 1801, the 49th was embarked in the fleet destined
for the Baltic, under Sir Hyde Parker; and Lieut.-Colonel Brock was second in command of the
land forces at the memorable attack of Copenhagen, by Lord Nelson, on the 2d of April. He was
appointed to lead the 49th in storming the principal of the Treckroner batteries, in conjunction
with five hundred seamen, under Captain Fremantle,[14] of the Ganges, of 74 guns; but the protracted
and heroic defence of the Danes rendering the attempt impracticable, Colonel Brock, during
the hard-fought battle, remained on board the Ganges; and at its close he accompanied Captain
Fremantle to the Elephant, 74, Nelson's flag ship, where he saw the hero[15] write his celebrated
letter to the Crown Prince of Denmark. Savery Brock was also on board the Ganges, and while
in the act of pointing one of her quarter deck guns, his cocked hat was torn from his head
by a grape shot: a naval officer, who was present, afterwards described the scene which followed
this narrow escape in these words: "I now hear Sir Isaac exclaim, 'Ah! poor Savery is dead!'
But Savery was not an instant on his back; in the same moment he rubbed his head, assured his
brother that he was not injured, and fired the gun with as much coolness as if nothing had
happened." The effect of the shot passing so near him was such that, although a remarkably
powerful young man, six feet two inches in height, he was knocked down and stunned for the
moment. Of the 49th, Captain Sharp was badly wounded on board of the Bellona, and Lieutenant
Dennis was wounded on board of the Monarch, which ship had 55 killed and 155 wounded, exclusive
of officers, but including 8 soldiers of the 49th killed, and 20 wounded. In addition to the
49th was a detachment of the 95th, rifles--consisting, we believe, of two companies--under
Lieut.-Colonel the Honorable William Stewart,[16] who was senior officer of the troops embarked.
As such his name was included in the thanks of Parliament; but we cannot understand why a lieutenant-colonel,
with only two companies, was placed over the head of an officer of equal rank with his entire
regiment, unless indeed the cause was that Lieut.-Colonel Brock was not an "honorable!" We
are not aware that he ever complained of what appears to us to have been an act of injustice
to him, and we may therefore be wrong in our view of the subject. The British loss, in killed
and wounded, was 953, or 58 more than fell at the battle of the Nile.

John Savery Brock, of whose gallantry mention is made in the preceding pages, was the next
younger brother of Lieut.-Colonel Brock, and had been in the navy; but it being supposed that
he was influential, in the year 1790, in inducing his brother midshipmen, of the fleet at Spithead,
to sign a round robin against their being subjected to the practice of mast-heading--one having
been hoisted up to the gaff end in an ignominous manner, because he refused to go to the mast
head as a punishment--he was recommended privately to retire from the service.[17] Being at
this time a tall and high spirited young man of eighteen, it is not surprising that he deemed
such a punishment unnecessarily degrading to the feelings of an officer, and which has since
been very properly abolished. Had it not been for this circumstance, it is the opinion of a
naval officer of high rank, that Savery Brock would have distinguished himself and risen to
eminence in the navy during the late revolutionary wars. Some little time after this affair,
being in Guernsey, he wished to go to England, and was offered a passage in the Amazon, frigate,
Captain Reynolds, afterwards Rear-Admiral Reynolds, who perished in the St. George, of 98 guns,
on her return from the Baltic, in 1811. The Amazon, bound to Portsmouth, left the roadstead
late in the afternoon, and before she was clear of the small Russel--a dangerous passage--night
overtook her. By some accident the pilot mistook the bearings, owing to the darkness and thick
weather. Savery Brock, being acquainted with the intricate course, was on the fore yard looking
out, when he suddenly espied some rocks towards which the frigate was steering. There was no
time for communication, and, without hesitating an instant, he cried out in true nautical style:
"H-a-r-d up, h-a-r-d up." "H-a-r-d up it is," replied the helmsman. "H-a-r-d up," repeated
Savery in a louder key. "Gently, young man," said the captain, who was standing forward. The
ship fortunately bore away just in time to clear the rocks, and was thus saved by the prompt
interference of her passenger. We have often heard him in his latter days tell the story with
excusable pride, and he especially remembered how the crew pointed him out the next morning
to each other, as the young man who had got the ship out of her danger. As he was without employment,
his brother Isaac subsequently procured him the paymastership of the 49th, which he retained
only three or four years, the office being one quite unfitted to his previous education and
active mind. In 1808, his military zeal induced him to serve for a short time as an amateur
aide-de-camp to Sir John Moore, on the Peninsula. He married and settled in Guernsey; and whether
as a militia colonel, or in the exercise of a generous hospitality, or, above all, as a projector
and zealous promoter of many public improvements in his native island, his memory will long
live in the recollection of its inhabitants.

When Kean performed in Guernsey, two or three years before his appearance on the London boards,
Savery Brock was enthusiastic in his admiration, and predicted the future eminence of that
celebrated tragedian, in whose memoirs his name is gratefully mentioned.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 2: With a slight variation, the field being gules instead of azure. Motto, Vincit
Veritas.]

[Footnote 3: Translation from the French by Lord Berners, vol. 2, chap. 39, 40. London Edition,
1815.]

[Footnote 4: The name of this ancient family, second to none in wealth and station, became
extinct in Guernsey, in 1810, on the death of Osmond De Beauvoir, Esq., when his large property
was inherited by distant relatives.--Duncan's History of Guernsey.]

[Footnote 5: Major-General Le Marchant and his eldest son, a captain in the Foot Guards, who
both fell in Spain during the late war, and Captain Philip Saumarez, who was Lord Anson's first
lieutenant in the Centurion, and was slain in 1747, while commanding the Nottingham, of 64
guns, were members of those families.]

[Footnote 6: Brock street, at Bath, was named after him by the projector, in testimony of friendship.]

[Footnote 7: New Annual Register for 1799, page 395.]

[Footnote 8: See the returns in the New Annual Register, for 1799, Principal Occurrences, page
143. Singularly enough, the loss of the non-commissioned officers and privates in each corps
is not given, but the casualties among the officers of the 49th exceeded those of any other
regiment engaged on this day, with the exception of the 25th and 92d.]

[Footnote 9: Afterwards Sir John Moore, who fell at Corunna.]

[Footnote 10: Lieut.-Colonel Smith, commanding the 20th, a native of Guernsey, afterwards Colonel
Sir George Smith, aide-de-camp to the king. He died at Cadiz, in 1809, and was a distinguished
officer.]

[Footnote 11: The present General Lord Aylmer, G.C.B., formerly governor-general of British
North America. He was then a captain in the 49th. See Appendix A, Sec. 1, No. 1.]

[Footnote 12: In this engagement, the gallant Lieut.-Colonel Bainbrigge, of the 20th, was killed.
He married Miss Dobrée, of Beauregard, Guernsey.]

[Footnote 13: Duncan's History of Guernsey.]

[Footnote 14: The late Vice-Admiral Sir Thomas Fremantle, G.C.B.]

[Footnote 15: It is worthy of remark, that Lieut.-Colonel Brock's almost immediate superiors,
during his active service in Europe, fell like himself in action, as knights of the bath, viz.
Sir Ralph Abereromby, Lord Nelson, and Sir John Moore.]

[Footnote 16: Afterwards Sir W. Stewart, G.C.B., who commanded a division in the Peninsular war.]

[Footnote 17: While the above was in type, the Duke of Rutland visited Guernsey in his yacht,
and wrote the following note at Detroit, the residence of the once outcast middy, on whom,
while we write this, the hand of death is but too apparent: "The Duke of Rutland called to
pay his respects to Mr. Savery Brock, and sincerely regrets to find that he is so unwell. Saturday,
July 13, 1844."]

CHAPTER II.

The 49th, on its return from Copenhagen to England, was collected at Colchester, and in the
spring following, (1802,) the regiment sailed for Canada, which country was destined to bestow
on it many additional laurels, as well as to be the scene of the fame and death of its commanding
officer. In less than eighteen months after the arrival of the 49th in Canada, and while it
was quartered in the upper province, a serious conspiracy was on the point of breaking out
in that part of the regiment which was in garrison at Fort George, on the Niagara, under the
command of the junior lieutenant-colonel, the head quarters being, we believe, at York, the
capital. This officer, it seems, more by useless annoyance than by actual severity, had exasperated
the men under his command to that degree that they formed a plot to murder all the officers
present, with the exception of a young man who had recently joined; and then to cross over
to the United States. Far be it from us to justify the intention, which indeed was highly criminal;
but in all such extreme cases we hold that a sad abuse of power, or a gross want of tact, must
be the exciting cause, and that even in the passive obedience of a military life, there may
be a limit to human endurance. The proximity of the United States rendered this plot a very
feasible one, as the men in a body could have crossed the river Niagara without molestation
or difficulty. The suspicions of the officer in command having been aroused, he hastily wrote
to Lieut.-Colonel Brock on the subject, and sent his letter by one of the men, who delivered
it as the latter officer was shooting, or on his return from a shooting excursion. On reading
the letter, and knowing from the character of the man that he must be engaged in the conspiracy,
if there were any, he threatened to shoot him on the spot, if he did not instantly divulge
the names of the ringleaders. The man, thus taken by surprise, did as he was ordered, and Lieut.-Colonel
Brock hurried off to Fort George. On his arrival he found the men at dinner, and placing the
officers with their drawn swords at the doors, he went into the rooms with handcuffs, and secured
the most culpable, among whom was a sergeant, none offering the slightest resistance. The ringleaders
were immediately embarked, so as to prevent any attempt at their rescue.[18] On being tried
by a court martial, four were condemned to suffer death, and, with three deserters, were shot
at Quebec, in presence of the garrison, early in the month of March, 1804. A most awful and
affecting sight it was: the wind was easterly, strong, and cold,--a thick drift of snow added
to the gloom,--and, as if to increase the horror of the scene, a few of the firing party, fifty-six
in number, instead of advancing to within eight yards of the prisoners, as was intended, owing
to some mistake commenced firing at the distance of at least fifty yards. The consequence was,
that the unhappy wretches were only partially wounded, and dropped one after another. Nearly
forty shots were fired before one poor fellow in the centre fell, although he was wounded through
the abdomen at the first discharge. The men who had reserved their fire, were at length ordered
up, and, lodging the contents of their muskets in the breasts of the culprits, by that means
put them out of torture. The unfortunate sufferers declared publicly that, had they continued
under the command of Colonel Brock, they would have escaped their melancholy end; and, as may
be easily conceived, he felt no little anguish that they, who had so recently and so bravely
fought under him in Holland and at Copenhagen, were thus doomed to end their lives, the victims
of unruly passions inflamed by vexatious authority. He was now directed to assume the command
at Fort George, and all complaint and desertion instantly ceased.

In the fall of 1805, in October of which year he was made a full colonel, Colonel Brock returned
to Europe on leave; and early in the following year, he laid before his royal highness the
commander-in-chief the outlines of a plan for the formation of a veteran battalion, to serve
in the Canadas. In support of the plan he wrote:

    "The advantages which may attend the establishment of a corps
    such as is here recommended, will be perhaps more clearly
    understood by first adverting to some of the causes that
    produce the inconvenience to which the troops occupying the
    frontier posts of that country are continually exposed.

    "A regiment quartered in Upper Canada is generally divided into
    eight different parts, several hundred miles asunder, and in
    this situation it remains at least three years. Great as is the
    evil incidental to a state of separation, even where the mind
    is in no danger of being debauched, what may not be apprehended
    in a country where both the divided state of the regiment, and
    the artifices employed to wean the soldier from his duty,
    conspire to render almost ineffectual every effort of the
    officers to maintain the usual degree of order and discipline.
    The lures to desertion continually thrown out by the Americans,
    and the facility with which it can be accomplished, exacting a
    more than ordinary precaution on the part of the officers,
    insensibly produce mistrust between them and the men, highly
    prejudicial to the service.

    "Experience has taught me that no regular regiment, however
    high its claim to discipline, can occupy the frontier posts of
    Lower and Upper Canada without suffering materially in its
    numbers. It might have been otherwise some years ago; but now
    that the country, particularly the opposite shore, is chiefly
    inhabited by the vilest characters, who have an interest in
    debauching the soldier from his duty; since roads are opened
    into the interior of the States, which facilitate desertion, it
    is impossible to avoid the contagion. A total change must be
    effected in the minds and views of those who may hereafter be
    sent on this duty, before the evil can be surmounted."

In a letter from Lieut.-Colonel Gordon, dated Horse Guards, January 17, 1806, Colonel Brock
received the Duke of York's "thanks for the communication of his very sensible observations
respecting the distribution of the troops in Canada, which his royal highness will not fail
to take into consideration at a seasonable opportunity."[19]

While on a visit to his family and friends in Guernsey, Colonel Brock deemed the intelligence
from the United States to be of so warlike a character, that he resolved on returning to Canada
before his leave was expired; and such was his anxiety to be at his post, that he overtook
at Cork the Lady Saumarez, a Guernsey vessel, well manned and armed as a letter of marque,
bound to Quebec. He left London on the 26th June, 1806, and hurried away from Europe never
to return--never to revisit those who fondly loved him, not only from ties of kindred, but
for his many endearing qualities; but he had the satisfaction of knowing that the commander-in-chief
was much pleased with the zeal and devotion evinced by him on this occasion.

Soon after his arrival in Canada, Colonel Brock succeeded, on the 27th September, 1806, to
the command of the troops in the two provinces, Colonel Bowes[20] having resigned that command
on his departure for England. At this time, the civil government of the lower province was
administered by Mr. President Dunn, and Colonel Brock resided at Quebec, in command of the
forces, until the arrival of the governor-general, Sir James Craig, in October, 1807, who appointed
him to act as a brigadier, which appointment was confirmed by the king, to date from the 2d
of July, 1808.

Colonel Brock to Lieut.-Colonel J.W. Gordon.

    QUEBEC, September 28, 1806.

    I have the honor to acquaint you, for the information of the
    commander-in-chief, that Colonel Bowes, preparatory to his
    departure for England, has resigned the command of his
    majesty's forces in this country, which, as the next senior
    officer, devolves on me.

    I find great pleasure in reporting to his royal highness the
    good order and discipline which, much to the credit of
    Lieut.-Colonel Sheaffe, I found on my arrival to prevail
    among the eight companies of the 49th regiment, quartered in
    this garrison.

    It has been the fate of the 49th to be divided, for the last
    four years and a half, several hundred miles apart, and
    however anxious I must be to assemble the whole together, I
    have not, considering the youth of the 100th regiment, which
    alone affords me the means of effecting that measure, thought
    it prudent to withdraw the company stationed at St. John's and
    the other frontier posts of this province, but the one at
    Montreal will be relieved this autumn.

    Colonel Bowes having complied with Lieut.-Colonel Otway's
    earnest application for leave to return to England, I have
    appointed Captain Ormsby, of the 49th regiment, an officer of
    approved merit, to act as deputy adjutant-general during his
    absence; an arrangement which, I presume to hope, his royal
    highness will be graciously pleased to sanction.

Colonel Brock to the Right Hon. W. Windham.

    QUEBEC, February 12, 1807.

    I have the honor to transmit for your consideration a proposal
    of Lieut.-Colonel John M'Donald, late of the Royal Canadian
    Volunteers, for raising a corps among the Scotch settlers in
    the county of Glengary, Upper Canada.

    When it is considered that both the Canadas furnish only two
    hundred militia who are trained to arms, the advantages to be
    derived from such an establishment must appear very, evident.

    The military force in this country is very small, and were it
    possible to collect it in time to oppose any serious attempt
    upon Quebec, the only tenable post, the number would of itself
    be insufficient to ensure a vigorous defence.

    This corps, being stationed on the confines of the Lower
    Province, would be always immediately and essentially useful
    in checking any seditious disposition, which the wavering
    sentiments of a large population in the Montreal district
    might at any time manifest. In the event of invasion, or other
    emergency, this force could be easily and expeditiously
    transported by water to Quebec.

    The extent of country which these settlers occupy, would make
    the permanent establishment of the staff and one sergeant in
    each company very advisable. I shall not presume to say how
    far the claims of the field officers to the same indulgence
    are reasonable and expedient.

    In regard to the Rev. Alexander M'Donald, I beg leave to
    observe, that the men being all Catholics, it may be deemed a
    prudent measure to appoint him chaplain. His zeal and
    attachment to Government were strongly evinced whilst filling
    the office of chaplain to the Glengary Fencibles during the
    rebellion in Ireland, and were graciously acknowledged by his
    royal highness the commander-in-chief.

    His influence over the men is deservedly great, and I have
    every reason to think that the corps, by his exertions, would
    be soon completed, and hereafter become a nursery from which
    the army might draw a number of hardy recruits.

      *      *      *      *      *

The following letter affords a good idea of the confidential report of a general officer on
the state of a regiment after its periodical inspection.

Colonel Brock to the Adjutant-General of His Majesty's Forces.

    QUEBEC, March 17, 1807.

    In obedience to the commander-in-chief's commands,
    communicated to me in your letter dated 20th November last, I
    shall proceed to state, for His Royal Highness's information,
    such observations as a strict attention to the conduct and
    interior economy of the 100th[21] regiment during the
    preceding six months has enabled me to make.

    The greatest praise is justly due to Lieut.-Colonel Murray,
    who has commanded, with only a short interval, from the first
    formation of the regiment to the present time, for his
    unremitting care and attention to the several important duties
    of his office.

    The good effects of his exertions and intelligence are
    strikingly visible in every department of the corps. He has
    been ably supported by Major Hamilton and the rest of his
    officers, who on all occasions evince the utmost zeal for the
    service, and the highest respect and attachment towards his
    person. He has succeeded in establishing an interior
    discipline and economy, which I have never before witnessed in
    so young a corps, and scarcely seen surpassed by any, and in a
    way too the most satisfactory to the feelings of an officer.

    Although I trust the garrison duty at Quebec is carried on
    with every regard to the safety of the place, together with
    the strictest attention to all prescribed forms and
    regulations, yet the winter has nearly passed without a single
    instance of neglect or misconduct having occurred among the
    100th regiment; and it is a pleasing task to report, that so
    exemplarily have the men behaved, that, even regimentally,
    only one corporal punishment has been inflicted for the last
    three months.

    I am now speaking of men who, being nearly all Irish, are of
    all others the most volatile and easily led astray. Should
    they, therefore, hereafter be seduced by the various
    temptations by which they are surrounded, I hope to escape the
    imputation of judging too hastily and partially. The men were
    principally raised in the north of Ireland, and are nearly all
    Protestants; they are robust, active, and good looking.

    The troops in this country are precluded, by the severity of
    the climate during seven months in the year, from exercising
    out of doors: it cannot, therefore, be expected that the 100th
    regiment can, considering the little practice it has had in
    the field, and after such a long interval, be very expert in
    its manoeuvres; but as Lieut.-Colonel Murray possesses both
    capacity and inclination, and as a good foundation is already
    laid, the most rapid progress may be expected so soon as the
    season enables him to commence his labours.

    A large room has been allotted in the barracks to the purposes
    of drilling with arms, from which the garrison has derived
    essential benefit.

    The clothing for the present year is all fitted, and appears
    very good. Every man is provided with a great coat, agreeably
    to His Majesty's regulations; but as the great coat is
    necessarily worn on all occasions for six months in the year,
    it cannot by the strictest economy be made to last the
    specified time. Those of the 100th have been two years in
    wear, and are so far expended, that they will become wholly
    unserviceable before next winter. I know of no other
    alternative but supplying others at the charge of the men,
    which opinion I have given to Lieut.-Colonel Murray, who
    applied to me on the subject.

    The messes have been all along abundantly provided. Indeed,
    the soldiers in this country live in a perfect state of luxury
    unknown any where else.

    The non-commissioned officers and privates acknowledge to have
    received every thing which is their due in respect to pay and
    clothing. One man claims a part of his bounty, which, he says,
    has been withheld. A regimental court martial has already
    decided against him, but the business shall again be
    investigated by a garrison court martial.

    Lieut.-Colonel Murray has reported to me, that there are
    several men in his regiment who claim bounty, but as only one
    complained at the inspection, the remainder must be satisfied
    that he is doing his utmost to recover what is actually their
    due.

    The hospital is in as complete order as the house which has
    been hired for that purpose can admit. Indeed, the troops in
    garrison are much inconvenienced for want of permanent
    hospitals. There were three cases of fever; the remainder of
    the patients were chiefly attacked with a disease too
    prevalent among young soldiers. Three men are unfit for
    service, being frost-bitten.

    The men are supplied with necessaries in conformity to his
    majesty's regulations.

Colonel Brock to the Adjutant-General of His Majesty's Forces.

    QUEBEC, July 1, 1807.

    I have the honor to transmit herewith the inspection return of
    the 41st regiment for two distinct periods, viz. September 1,
    1806, and March 1, 1807.

    Some inaccuracies being found in the September return
    previously received, it was sent back to Lieut.-Colonel
    Proctor, at Fort George, for correction. This circumstance and
    the distance of the place, account for the delay which has
    occurred in complying, in the present instance, with the
    commands of his royal highness the commander-in-chief.

    The very great distance of the quarters the 41st now occupy,
    has prevented my making personally the periodical inspection
    of that regiment required by my instructions. But its
    dispersed state and the many evils by which it is surrounded
    will, however great the zeal and intelligence of
    Lieut.-Colonel Proctor and the other officers, so far affect
    the discipline and morals of the men, as to justify my saying
    that both the one and the other must, without the possibility
    of a remedy, progressively suffer in proportion as the
    regiment remains stationed in the Upper Province. The 41st
    regiment, having a considerable number of old soldiers, is
    better calculated for that service than either the 49th or
    100th regiments, and no change is therefore meditated.

    Not being possessed with the means of making a more
    circumstantial report of the state of the 41st regiment, I
    have only to add, in justice to the officers commanding posts,
    that they evince in their communications with head quarters
    much attention and sound judgment.

    Contemplating the probable arrival of a general officer by the
    fleet daily expected from England, I have so far presumed to
    deviate from my instructions as to postpone making the
    periodical inspection of the regiments quartered in this
    garrison, conceiving that his royal highness the
    commander-in-chief would esteem a report coming from such a
    high source more satisfactory, than if I were to undertake the
    task in my present situation, which may naturally be supposed,
    in some degree, to bias my judgment.

      *      *      *      *      *

On the 17th July, 1807, in consequence of an expected rupture between England and the United
States, Colonel Brock addressed a letter to Mr. President Dunn, in which he said that the number
of militia armed and instructed in the province did not exceed 300, while he thought that as
many thousands could easily, and with perfect safety, be formed into corps; and that Quebec,
the only military post in the country, was not in a condition to make much defence against
an active enemy, as the walls on the western side were old and decayed, and could not possibly
sustain a continued heavy fire. He added, that he wished to throw up such works as would remedy
this glaring defect; but as the garrison was totally inadequate to such an undertaking, he
required from 600 to 1,000 men every day for six weeks or two months, besides a vast number
of carts, &c., to complete the necessary defences of the citadel. This letter being submitted
to the council, that body replied, that the only means by which assistance could be given by
the civil government to the military, in the manner proposed by Colonel Brock, would be by
embodying a proportion of the militia according to law, the men for which service must be taken
from different parts of the province. And that as this measure had only once before been resorted
to in the province, on which occasion a decided disobedience was generally manifested, and
was again to be anticipated, the council inquired of Colonel Brock whether he had the means,
and would furnish them, to enforce the attendance of the militia, who, when embodied, were
entitled to the same pay and allowances as the king's troops. The council further informed
Colonel Brock that it would meet again the next day, for the purpose of taking into consideration
any representation, in writing, which he might think proper to make in answer to their communication,
and that, if convenient to him, they requested his personal attendance. His reply was as follows:

    QUEBEC, 23d July, 1807.

    Colonel Brock has perused with attention the proceedings of
    his honor the president in council, communicated to him by Mr.
    Ryland, and begs leave to observe, that in addressing his
    honor on the 17th instant, it was far from his intention to
    assume a political character.

    His sole object was to state the assistance required by the
    military to remedy a glaring defect in the fortifications of
    Quebec, should his honor conceive that preparatory measures
    were necessary to be adopted in consequence of the event which
    recently occurred between his majesty's ship Leopard and the
    American frigate Chesapeake, but more particularly the
    subsequent aggressive provisions contained in the proclamation
    of the American government.

    In thus complying with the dictates of his duty, Colonel Brock
    was not prepared to hear that the population of the province,
    instead of affording him ready and effectual support, might
    probably add to the number of his enemies; and he feels much
    disappointment in being informed by the first authority, that
    the only law in any degree calculated to answer the end
    proposed was likely, if attempted to be enforced, to meet with
    such general opposition as to require the aid of the military
    to give it even a momentary impulse.

    Colonel Brock is therefore obliged to observe, that the
    officer commanding certainly would not choose the time when
    the troops may every instant be called upon for the defence of
    Quebec, to disperse them over the country in aid of the civil
    government, coercively collecting a body of men, which, under
    such circumstances, would be of more detriment than service to
    the regular army. Colonel Brock cannot, therefore, look for
    any assistance from that quarter, but, should an emergency
    arise, he is confident that voluntary offers of service will
    be made by a considerable number of brave and loyal subjects,
    and feels himself justified in saying, that even now several
    gentlemen are ready to come forward and enroll into companies
    men on whose fidelity they can safely rely.

    It remains with his honor to determine the degree of
    countenance which ought to be given to such sentiments.

    Colonel Brock will be at all times proud to attend
    deliberations of his honor in council.

Colonel Brock to Lord Viscount Castlereagh.

    QUEBEC, July 25, 1807.

    I think it my duty to transmit for your lordship's information
    a copy of the communication that has passed between his honor
    the president and me, relative to the military situation of
    this country.

    Your Lordship will perceive from the minutes of the council,
    how very inadequate the militia law is to afford assistance to
    the regular force, and the degree of dependance that may be
    placed on the population of this province.

    My own observations, however, enable me to assure your
    Lordship, that a respectable force might be trained and
    rendered exceedingly useful on any exigency, were the least
    encouragement given to the spirit which at present pervades a
    certain class to volunteer their services.

    To such characters arms might be safely entrusted, but I
    certainly would consider an indiscriminate distribution to the
    militia, were it possible to collect it, as highly imprudent
    and dangerous.

    What I stated to his honor the president respecting the
    weakness of the works along the whole of the west front of
    this garrison, is consonant to the opinion transmitted by the
    officers of engineers and artillery, in their half-yearly
    periodical report, to the master-general of the ordnance.

    To a question from the president, viz. "Should the council
    conceive it necessary to call out the militia, whether I
    thought myself warranted to issue pay and provisions to them?"
    I answered, Certainly not: that in all British Colonies, of
    which I had any knowledge, they on all such occasions defrayed
    their own expenses.

    The consideration that there is about £30,000 in the civil
    chest, which cannot be applied to its object until next
    spring, and the ease with which the error I may have fallen
    into might be remedied, induced me to be so positive upon a
    subject, regarding which I am without instructions.

Colonel Brock to Lieut.-Colonel J.W. Gordon.

    QUEBEC, Sept. 6, 1807.

    It is impossible to view the late hostile measures of the
    American government towards England, without considering a
    rupture between the two countries as probable to happen.

    I have in consequence been anxious that such precautionary
    measures might be taken as the case seemed to justify; but his
    honor the president has not judged it proper to adopt any
    other step, than merely to order one-fifth of the militia,
    which amounts to about 10,000 men, to hold itself in readiness
    to march on the shortest notice.

    The men thus selected for service being scattered along an
    extensive line of four or five hundred miles, unarmed and
    totally unacquainted with every thing military, without
    officers capable of giving them instruction, considerable time
    would naturally be required before the necessary degree of
    order and discipline could be introduced among them. I
    therefore very much doubt whether, in the event of actual war,
    this force could assemble in time, and become useful.

    Without considerable assistance from the militia, the few
    regulars which might be spared from this garrison could avail
    nothing against the force the Americans would suddenly
    introduce by various roads into this province.

    The Canadians have unquestionably shewn a great willingness
    upon this occasion to be trained, and, I make not the least
    doubt, would oppose with vigour any invasion of the
    Americans--but how far the same sentiments would actuate them
    were a French force to join, I will not undertake to say; at
    any rate, I feel that every consideration of prudence and
    policy ought to determine me to keep in Quebec a sufficient
    force to secure its safety; the number of troops that could
    therefore be safely detached would be small, notwithstanding a
    great deal might be done, in conjunction with the militia, in
    a country intersected in every direction by rivers, deep
    ravines, and lined, at intervals on both sides the road, by
    thick woods.

    From every information I can receive, the Americans are busily
    employed in drilling and forming their militia, and openly
    declare their intention of entering this province the instant
    war is determined upon; they will be encouraged to adopt this
    step from the very defenceless state of our frontiers; the
    means at my disposal are too limited to oppose them with
    effect in the open field, and I shall be constrained, unless
    his honor the president make exertions, which I do not think
    him at this moment disposed to do, to confine myself to the
    defence of Quebec.

    I have hastened the completion of the works which enclose the
    upper town of Quebec, and I have thought myself justified in
    causing a battery of eight 36-pounders to be raised sixteen
    feet upon the cavalier in the centre of the citadel, which
    will effectually command the opposite heights.

    Although these remarks may be premature, I yet conceive it my
    duty to give his royal highness the commander-in-chief a view
    of my real situation.

    I must freely confess that I am unable to account for the
    motives which seem at present to guide the councils of this
    province. Voluntary offers of service have been made by
    numbers, on whose loyalty the utmost reliance can be placed,
    to form themselves into corps of cavalry, artillery, and
    infantry, at little or no expense to government, provided they
    were furnished with arms; but this liberal spirit has not been
    encouraged by the president.

    I have the honor to report, that at a recent interview I had
    at Montreal with Lieut.-Governor Gore, it was judged expedient
    that his excellency should assume the command in the upper
    province. I regretted exceedingly that I could not, with
    propriety, detach troops in support of the spirited exertions
    whioh will be immediately made to place that country in a
    respectable state of defence. He has been supplied with four
    thousand muskets from the king's arsenal at Quebec, and with
    various military stores of which he stood in need: this leaves
    in my possession only seven thousand muskets for the use of
    the militia of this province, and to supply, as far as they
    will go, every other emergency.

Sir James Craig to Colonel Brock.

    H.M.S. Horatio, Oct. 16, 1807.

    His majesty having been pleased to appoint me to the chief
    government of the British provinces in America, as well as to
    the command of his forces in these parts, I do myself the
    pleasure to announce to you my arrival in the river, to take
    these charges upon me.

    Lieut.-Colonel Baynes, the adjutant-general, and Major
    Thornton, my secretary and first aide-decamp, will deliver you
    this, and will inform you of the very miserable state of my
    health, which obliges me to write to Mr. Dunn, to entreat that
    he will permit my landing to be as private as possible. Of you
    I must make the same request. A salute may be proper, but I
    beg nothing more may be done: my object must be to get to the
    château as speedily and with as little fatigue as possible.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 18: Owing to the difficulty, after the lapse of above forty years, of obtaining the
particulars of this event from any officer present, the preceding account may be slightly inaccurate
notwithstanding our diligent inquiries, but we doubt not that it is substantially correct.]

[Footnote 19: The 10th Royal Veteran Battalion arrived in Canada the year following.]

[Footnote 20: Afterwards Major-General Barnard Foord Bowes, slain on the 27th June, 1812, while
leading the troops to the assault of the forts of Salamanca. Monuments in St. Paul's, to the
memory of Major-General Bowes and of Sir Isaac Brock, were voted in the House of Commons on
the same day, 20th July, 1813.]

[Footnote 21: On the passage of the 100th to Quebec, in 1805, one of the transports was wrecked
on the 21st October, on the coast of Newfoundland; and Major Bertram, three captains, six lieutenants,
the assistant-surgeon, and about 260 men of the regiment, miserably perished.]

CHAPTER III.

Brigadier Brock to his Brothers.

    MONTREAL, July 20, 1808.

    I have written to all of you since the navigation opened, and
    the only letters I have received from any of the family for
    several months came from Irving, who, to do him justice, is
    infinitely the most attentive and regular correspondent among
    you.

    My appointment to be brigadier I first announced by the March
    mail. Those who feel an interest in my prosperity will rejoice
    in my good fortune, as this distinguished mark of favor
    affords undeniable proof that my conduct, during the period of
    my command, was approved;--a great gratification, considering
    the many difficulties I had to encounter. I once thought I
    should be ordered to the upper province, but General Ferguson
    being among the newly appointed major-generals, will not now
    probably visit this country. In that case, I stand a very good
    chance of succeeding him, both in rank and in the command of
    Quebec, where it was intended he should be stationed.

    What will be the result of our present unsettled relations
    with the neighbouring republic, it is very difficult to say.
    The government is composed of such unprincipled men, that to
    calculate on it by the ordinary rules of action would be
    perfectly absurd. We have completely outwitted Jefferson in
    all his schemes to provoke us to war. He had no other view in
    issuing his restrictive proclamation; but, failing in that, he
    tried what the embargo would produce, and there he has been
    foiled again. Certainly, our administration is deserving of
    every praise for their policy on these occasions. Jefferson
    and his party, however strong the inclination, dare not
    declare war, and therefore they endeavour to attain their
    object by every provocation. A few weeks since, the garrison
    of Niagara fired upon seven merchant boats passing the fort,
    and actually captured them. Considering the circumstances
    attending this hostile act, it is but too evident it was
    intended to provoke retaliation: these boats fired upon and
    taken within musket shot of our own fort; their balls falling
    on our shore, was expected to have raised the indignation of
    the most phlegmatic; fortunately, the commandant was not in
    the way, as otherwise it is difficult to say what would have
    happened. A representation of this affair has been made at
    Washington, and, for an act certainly opposed to existing
    treaties, we have been referred for justice to the ordinary
    course of the law! If our subjects cannot command impunity
    from capture under the guns of our own forts, it were better
    to demolish them at once rather than witness and suffer such
    indignity. By the treaties which have expired, the navigation
    of the waters that divide the two countries is regulated and
    stipulated to be still in force, although every other part
    should cease to be obligatory.

    I get on here pretty well, but this place loses at this season
    the undoubted advantage it possesses over Quebec in winter.
    Great additions are making to the fortifications at Quebec,
    and, when completed, the Americans will, if I mistake not,
    think it prudent not to trouble the place, for they can have
    no chance of making any impression upon it during the short
    period which the severity of the climate only permits an enemy
    to lay before it. I erected, as I believe I told you before, a
    famous battery, which the public voice named after me; but Sir
    James, thinking very properly that any thing so very
    pre-eminent should be distinguished by the most exalted
    appellation, has called it the King's Battery, the greatest
    compliment, I conceive, that he could pay to my judgment.[22]
    Not a desertion has been attempted by any of the 49th for the
    last ten months, with the exception indeed of Hogan, Savery's
    former servant. He served Glegg in the same capacity, who took
    him with him to the Falls of Niagara, where a fair damsel
    persuaded him to this act of madness, for the fellow cannot
    possibly gain his bread by labour, as he has half killed
    himself with excessive drinking; and we know he cannot live
    upon love alone. The weather has been exceedingly hot the last
    week, the thermometer fluctuating from 94 degrees to 100
    degrees in the shade. The embargo has proved a famous harvest
    to some merchants here. It is certainly the most ridiculous
    measure imaginable, and was evidently adopted with the view of
    pleasing France; but no half measure can satisfy Napoleon, and
    this colony has been raised by it to a degree of importance
    that ensures its future prosperity.

Brigadier Brock to his Brothers.

    QUEBEC, September 5, 1808.

    I have been here but a few days, having been superseded at
    Montreal by Major-General Drummond. I do not approve much of
    the change, as being separated from the 49th is a great
    annoyance to me. But soldiers must accustom themselves to
    frequent movements; and as they have no choice, it often
    happens that they are placed in situations little agreeing
    with their inclinations. My nominal appointment has been
    confirmed at home, so that I am really a brigadier. Were the
    49th ordered hence, the rank would not be a sufficient
    inducement to keep me in this country. In such a case, I would
    throw it up willingly.

    Curious scenes appear to have occurred in the Baltic. I fear
    very much that Sir James (Saumarez) may be induced to return
    to his retirement in Guernsey. Indeed, the navy has little
    left to do, while the army has now a glorious opportunity of
    distinguishing itself as much as the sister service. Valour
    the British troops always possessed, but unless they evince
    discipline, their fame will be blasted for a century to come.

Brigadier Brock to his Brothers.

    QUEBEC, November 19, 1808.

    Yesterday Irving's letter of the 19th September reached me.
    How very thankful I feel for his attention. But I have not
    received that which he mentions Savery had written on the same
    day, giving an account of his proceedings in Spain and
    Portugal. This is a truly mortifying disappointment, as it is
    impossible to discover by the public prints the mystery by
    which the conduct of our officers has been influenced. The
    precaution which Irving took to transcribe a part of the
    letter, has proved very lucky. Notwithstanding, I look for the
    original with unusual impatience, as Savery's opinion must be
    formed upon what he saw in full practice in the best
    disciplined army that ever, I imagine, left England. His
    observations are never thrown away.

    I am still confined to my room, more indeed on account of the
    badness of the weather than any want of progress in my
    recovery. We have had very hard gales from the East. The
    Iphigenia frigate, with her convoy, could not have cleared the
    land, and the greatest apprehension is entertained for her
    safety. Her commander, Captain Lambert, is a friend of George
    Brock. I find him an exceedingly good fellow; and I have
    reason to think that he left us well satisfied with the
    attention he received from me.[23]

    Sir James Craig has certain intimation of the appointment of
    Colonel Baron de Rottenburg, of the 60th, to be a brigadier in
    this country, and he is daily looked for. This most probably
    will make a change in my situation, as one must go to the
    upper province, and, as he is senior, he will doubtless have
    the choice. My object is to get home as soon as I can obtain
    permission; but unless our affairs with America be amicably
    adjusted, of which I see no probability, I scarcely can expect
    to be permitted to move. I rejoice Savery has begun to exert
    himself to get me appointed to a more active situation. I must
    see service, or I may as well, and indeed much better, quit
    the army at once, for no one advantage can I reasonably look
    to hereafter if I remain buried in this inactive, remote
    corner, without the least mention being made of me. Should Sir
    James Saumarez return from the Baltic crowned with success, he
    could, I should think, say a good word for me to some purpose.

    Vincent[24] is doing extremely well. I however dread the
    severity of a winter upon his shattered frame. I must
    contrive to meet and dissipate the dull hours with my good
    friends of the 49th. I have prevailed upon Sir James to
    appoint Sergeant Robinson, master of the band, to a situation
    in the commissariat at Sorel, worth 3s. 6d. a day, with
    subaltern's lodging money and other allowances. He married a
    Jersey lass, whose relatives may inquire for him.

      *      *      *      *      *

It will be seen by the next letter and a few others which follow, that Sir Isaac Brock was
well aware of the existence among the French Canadians of a spirit of disaffection, which,
in 1837, broke out into open rebellion, the suppression of which earned Sir John Colborne (the
present Lord Seaton) his peerage. The outbreak caused great loss of life, and considerable
expense arising not only from the hurried dispatch to Quebec of a large body of troops from
Nova Scotia and England, but from the retention in the Canadas of about 10,000 men for a few
years, to overawe the disaffected, and to repress the piratical incursions of the citizens
of the United States in their favor.

Brigadier Brock to his brother William.

    QUEBEC, December 31, 1809.

    You will long since have been convinced that the American
    government is determined to involve the two countries in a
    war; they have already given us legitimate cause, but, if
    wise, we will studiously avoid doing that for which they shew
    so great an anxiety. Their finances, you will perceive, are
    very low, and they dare not propose direct taxes. They must
    have recourse to loans at a time when they have only six
    frigates in commission, and about five thousand men embodied.
    To what a state of poverty and wretchedness would the
    accumulated expenses of war reduce them! But they look to the
    success of their privateers for a supply, and contemplate the
    sweeping away of all foreign debts as the means of reducing
    the calls upon their treasury. Whatever steps England may
    adopt, I think she cannot, in prudence, avoid sending a strong
    military force to these provinces, as they are now become of
    infinite importance to her. You can scarcely conceive the
    quantity of timber and spars of all kinds which are lying on
    the beach, ready for shipment to England in the spring: four
    hundred vessels would not be sufficient to take all away.
    Whence can England be supplied with these essential articles
    but from the Canadas? Bonaparte, it is known, has expressed a
    strong desire to be in possession of the colonies formerly
    belonging to France, and now that they are become so valuable
    to England, his anxiety to wrest them from us will naturally
    increase. A small French force, 4 or 5,000 men, with plenty of
    muskets, would most assuredly conquer this province. The
    Canadians would join them almost to a man--at least, the
    exceptions would be so few as to be of little avail. It may
    appear surprising that men, petted as they have been and
    indulged in every thing they could desire, should wish for a
    change. But so it is--and I am apt to think that were
    Englishmen placed in the same situation, they would shew even
    more impatience to escape from French rule. How essentially
    different are the feelings of the people from when I first
    knew them. The idea prevails generally among them, that
    Napoleon must succeed, and ultimately get possession of these
    provinces. The bold and violent are becoming every day more
    audacious; and the timid, with that impression, think it
    better and more prudent to withdraw altogether from the
    society of the English, rather than run the chance of being
    accused hereafter of partiality to them. The consequence is,
    that little or no intercourse exists between the two races.
    More troops will be required in this country, were it only to
    keep down this growing turbulent spirit. The governor will, it
    is foreseen, have a difficult card to play next month with the
    assembly, which is really getting too daring and arrogant.
    Every victory which Napoleon has gained for the last nine
    years, has made the disposition here to resist more manifest.

Brigadier Brock to his sister-in-law, Mrs. W. Brock.

    QUEBEC, June 8, 1810.

    It was my decided intention to ask for leave to go to England
    this fall, but I have now relinquished the thought. Several
    untoward circumstances combine to oppose my wishes. The spirit
    of insubordination lately manifested by the French Canadian
    population of this colony, naturally called for precautionary
    measures, and our worthy chief is induced, in consequence, to
    retain in this country those on whom he can best confide. I am
    highly flattered in being reckoned among the number, whatever
    inward disappointment I may feel. Some unpleasant events have
    likewise happened in the upper country, which have occasioned
    my receiving intimation to proceed thither, whether as a
    permanent station, or merely as a temporary visit, Sir James
    Craig has not determined. Should, however, a senior brigadier
    to myself come out in the course of the summer, I shall
    certainly be fixed in the upper province, and there is every
    probability of such an addition very soon. Since all my
    efforts to get more actively employed have failed; since fate
    decrees that the best portion of my life is to be wasted in
    inaction in the Canadas, I am rather pleased with the prospect
    of removing upwards.

    There is a lady living at Barnet for whom I feel much
    interested. If you should by chance drive that way, and do not
    object to form a new acquaintance, I wish you to call upon
    her. She is the wife of Captain Manners, of the 49th, and the
    daughter of the celebrated Dr. Rush, of Philadelphia. She has
    a most amiable disposition and genteel manners. Her sister,
    Mrs. Ross Cuthbert, a charming little creature, makes her
    husband--my most intimate friend, and with whom I pass a
    great part of my leisure hours--a most happy man.

    I received the other day a long and exceedingly well written
    letter from Henrietta Tupper--she is really a charming
    girl. What Maria[25] (Potenger) do you begin to slacken in
    your attention to your poor devoted uncle?

Brigadier Brock to his brother Irving.

    QUEBEC, July 9, 1810.

    I have a thousand thanks to offer you for the very great
    attention you have shewn in executing my commissions: the
    different articles arrived in the very best order, with the
    exception of the cocked hat, which has not been received--a
    most distressing circumstance, as, from the enormity of my
    head[26], I find the utmost difficulty in getting a substitute
    in this country.

    I proposed writing to you early to-morrow, but Sir James
    having this instant intimated his intention of sending me
    upwards immediately, I avail myself of an hour's leisure to do
    that hastily which I would gladly have done quietly, and,
    consequently, more fully. If I am to remain in this country, I
    care little where I am placed; but going up, as I do now,
    without knowing whether I am to stay or return, is
    particularly awkward, and interferes materially in all my
    future arrangements: perhaps I shall be able to get the point
    settled before I commence my journey.

    Every thing here remains in a state of perfect quietness. It
    is but too evident that the Canadians generally are becoming
    daily more anxious to get rid of the English. This they cannot
    effect unless a French force come to their aid, and I do not
    think that Bonaparte would risk the loss of a fleet and army
    for the chance of getting possession of the country. What
    infatuation! No people had ever more cause to rejoice at their
    fate; but they are not singular, as all mankind seems prone to
    change, however disadvantageous or productive of confusion.

    Savery forwarded your pamphlet to me. You have taken a very
    proper view of the political dissensions which at this moment
    disgrace England. Those to whom I have allowed a perusal, and
    who are infinitely better judges than I can pretend to be,
    speak of the purity of the language in terms of high
    approbation. You have happily suited the style to the matter.
    Several copies have, within a few days, been in circulation
    here. Savery speaks of a letter you received, in consequence,
    from Lord Melville. I hope you will not fail in sending me a
    copy, as I am all anxiety for your literary fame. As you
    differ in sentiment from the Edinburgh Review, I hope that you
    have made up your mind to an unmerciful lashing.

    I do not see the smallest prospect of my getting away from
    here, as the disposition manifested by the Canadians will
    occasion a large military force to be kept in the country, and
    it will serve as a plea to retain all at their posts. I wish
    that I could boast of a little more patience than I feel I now
    possess.

    The fortifications of Quebec are improving pretty rapidly, but
    workmen cannot be procured in sufficient number to proceed as
    fast as government would wish. Labourers now get 7s. 6d. a
    day, and artificers from 12s. to 15s. Upwards of three hundred
    vessels have already arrived--a prodigious number.

Brigadier Brock to his sister-in-law, Mrs. William Brock.

    QUEBEC, July 10, 1810.

    I cannot allow the frigate to depart without sending my
    affectionate love to you. A Guernsey vessel arrived a few days
    ago, which brought me a letter from Savery of 10th May, and
    nothing could be more gratifying than the contents. The May
    fleet, which sailed from Portsmouth the 24th, reached this in
    thirty days, but as it had not a scrape of a pen for me, its
    arrival did not interest me. We have been uncommonly gay the
    last fortnight: two frigates at anchor, and the arrival of
    Governor Gore from the upper province, have given a zest to
    society. Races, country and water parties, have occupied our
    time in a continued round of festivity. Such stimulus is
    highly necessary to keep our spirits afloat. I contributed my
    share to the general mirth in a grand dinner given to Mrs.
    Gore, at which Sir J. Craig was present, and a ball to a vast
    assemblage of all descriptions.

    I mentioned in a former letter my apprehensions of being
    ordered to the upper province. I return this moment from
    waiting upon Sir James, who sent for me, to say he regretted
    he must part with me, as he found it absolutely necessary that
    I should proceed upwards without delay. I am placed in a very
    awkward predicament, as my stay in that country depends wholly
    upon contingencies. Should a brigadier arrive I am to be
    stationary, but otherwise return to Quebec. Nothing could be
    more provoking and inconvenient than this arrangement. Unless
    I take up every thing with me, I shall be miserably off, for
    nothing beyond eatables is to be had there; and in case I
    provide the requisites to make my abode in the winter in any
    way comfortable, and then be ordered back, the expense will be
    ruinous. But I must submit to all this without repining, and
    since I cannot get to Europe, I care little where I am placed.
    I have the most delightful garden imaginable, with abundance
    of melons and other good things, all which I must now desert.

    What am I to tell you from this out-of-the-way place. Your old
    friends of the 49th are well, but scattered in small
    detachments all over the country. They are justly great
    favorites at head quarters. I mentioned in a former letter my
    wish that, provided you could make it perfectly convenient,
    you would call upon Mrs. Manners, the wife of a captain of
    the 49th. I am satisfied that you would, after a short
    acquaintance, approve of her much--she is all goodness. By the
    last accounts they resided at Barnet.

    I have no doubt that Maria and Zelia (Potenger, his nieces)
    continue to conduct themselves in such a manner as to reward
    you amply for the unbounded kindness you have all along shewn
    them. If I am able in the fall to procure handsome skins for
    muffs worth their acceptance, I shall send some to the dear
    little girls: they ought, however, to write to me. There are
    few here brought up with the advantages they have received;
    indeed, the means for education are very limited for both
    sexes in this colony. Heaven preserve you. I shall probably
    begin my journey upwards in the course of a few days.

      *      *      *      *      *

Brigadier Brock accordingly proceeded to the Upper Province, Baron de Rottenburg having replaced
him at Quebec, and, with the exception of a few months in 1811, during which he visited Lower
Canada, he continued in command of the troops there till his death, Lieut.-Governor Gore at
first administering the civil government.

Colonel Baynes, the Adjutant-General, to Brigadier Brock, at Fort George.

    QUEBEC, September 6, 1810.

    The Brigadier-General (Baron de Rottenburg) is Sir James'
    (Craig) senior in age by a year, but is still strong and
    active, and looks much younger. I am well pleased with the
    little I have seen of him, which by the bye is very little,
    for I only returned yesterday from Sorel. Mrs. de
    Rottenburg[27] has made a complete conquest of all hearts. She
    is in reality remarkably handsome, both in face and figure,
    and her manners uncommonly pleasing, graceful, and affable.
    There is, I fancy, a very great disparity of years. They both
    speak English very fluently, and with very little foreign
    accent. Sir James (Craig) is remarkably well: we celebrated
    the anniversary of his sixtieth year yesterday at a very
    pleasant party at Powell Place. Our general court martial is
    over, and will be published in orders to-morrow. A soldier,
    who was under sentence of death for desertion from the 101st
    regiment, and transferred to the 8th, and a Jonathan of the
    Canadians, who is considered a ringleader, are sentenced to be
    shot; the others, a dozen in number, are to be transported to
    serve for life in the African corps.

Brigadier Brock to his Brothers.

    FORT GEORGE, Sept. 13, 1810.

    My good and dear friends,--I have been of late so much upon
    the move, that I had no thought of writing to you, and no
    letters of yours put me in mind that I should do so. Here I am
    stationed for some time, unless I succeed in the application I
    mean to make shortly for permission to visit England. At
    present Vincent, Glegg, and Williams, 49th, enliven this
    lonesome place. They are here as members of a general court
    martial, and are soon to depart, when I shall be left to my
    own reflections. Should I be so lucky as to obtain leave, I
    shall not commence my journey to New York until after
    Christmas. Baron de Rottenburg, a senior brigadier, has
    arrived at Quebec, where he remains. His presence
    unquestionably diminishes my prospects in this country, and I
    should stand evidently in my own light if I did not court
    fortune elsewhere.

    I have been as far as Detroit, a delightful country, far
    exceeding any thing I had seen on this continent.

    I have not had a letter from Europe since May, and wish you to
    write to me by way of New York. I avail myself of an
    unexpected passenger to scribble this in the presence of many
    of the court, who tell me it is time to resume our labours;
    therefore, my beloved brothers, adieu. I shall write again in
    a few days, viâ New York.

Colonel Baynes to Brigadier Brock, at Fort George.

    QUEBEC, October 4, 1810.

    By yesterday's post, I was favored with your letter of the 23d
    ultimo. I regret that so much trouble should have been
    occasioned to so little purpose, the more so as I apprehend an
    example to be much called for in the 100th regiment. Murray
    seems sanguine that the regiment will go on better under his
    rule, and that he knows the men better. I hope his conjecture
    may prove well founded, but I fear they are too wild a set to
    thrive in Upper Canada.

    As I felt at a loss how to introduce the subject of your
    personal views and wishes, I gave Sir James your letter to
    read; it did not, however, draw from him any remark on those
    topics. I know that he is very strongly impressed with the
    necessity of having a person like yourself for some time in
    the Upper Province, that a scrutinizing eye may correct the
    errors and neglect that have crept in, and put all in order
    again; and, in confidence between ourselves, I do not think
    he would be more ready to part with you from that station, in
    consequence of the arrival of Colonel Murray, who is not at
    all to his taste, and has managed, by a most indiscreet and
    indecent conversation at his table, to blot himself out of his
    good opinion. The conversation was on the subject of Cobbett,
    and the colonel's the only dissenting voice, which he exerted
    with the more energy in proportion to the badness of his
    cause, and after defending him in a style and language highly
    indecorous, and reprehensible to be held at the table of the
    governor, he so completely forgot himself as to repeat and
    justify the very offensive and illiberal publications of
    Cobbett respecting the German troops and foreign officers,
    although sitting directly opposite to General de Rottenburg.
    Sir James, who was suffering extremely from the commencement
    of a very severe attack of illness, could contain himself no
    longer, and silenced Murray by a very severe but highly just
    rebuke. Rottenburg appeared much hurt, and said to me that he
    was very sorry to find that any officer, entrusted with the
    honor of commanding a corps, could take a pleasure in exposing
    such sentiments as he had heard from Colonel M. Colonel Kempt,
    who naturally feels much interested for his young cousin,
    (Mrs. Murray,) and who really deserves and merits it for her
    own sake, was much mortified and vexed at Murray's
    impropriety.[28]

    The charms of Mrs. de Rottenburg have not effaced you from the
    recollection of your friends, who very sincerely regret your
    absence.

Lieut.-Colonel Thornton[29] (Military Secretary and first Aide-de-Camp) to Brigadier Brock.

    QUEBEC, October 4, 1810.

    I was yesterday favored with your letter of the 23d ultimo,
    and have not failed to communicate to Sir James your account
    and your charity towards the poor old fellow, formerly of the
    king's.[30] He has in consequence directed the allowance of
    the ration to be authorized and continued to him, for which
    purpose I must request his Christian name and the date of the
    first issue, but I am to remind you of the danger of
    establishing a precedent of this nature, and to request in the
    general's name that you will refrain as much as possible from
    indulging the natural benevolence of your disposition in this
    way, as he has hitherto resisted all applications of this
    sort.

    Your successor, as commandant of Quebec, is certainly much to
    be esteemed--a good kind of man, and devoted to his
    profession--but it is vanity in the extreme to attempt to
    describe the general admiration and estimation of his cara et
    dolce sposa: she is young, (twenty-three,) fair,
    beautiful,--lively, discreet, witty, affable,--in short, so
    engaging, or rather so fascinating, that neither the courier
    nor my paper will admit of my doing her justice; however, from
    what I have said it is necessary further to add and explain,
    that this is not my opinion alone but that of the public.

    Two hundred volunteers for Colonel Zouch, from other veteran
    battalions, have just arrived and landed: the regiment is to
    be completed in this manner to one thousand.

Colonel Baynes to Brigadier Brock.

    QUEBEC, October 11, 1810.

    Sir James has conversed with me fully on the subject of your
    wish for leave, and prefaced it by declaring himself very
    desirous on his part to forward your views as far as he could
    do so with propriety, but that he had written in such strong
    terms, urging the necessity of a third general officer being
    kept constantly on the staff of the Canadas, and assigned as a
    principal reason the advantage of an officer of that rank
    being stationed in the Upper Province, that he does not
    conceive himself at liberty to overset an arrangement which he
    has been two years soliciting the means to carry into effect,
    and the absolute necessity of which he is highly impressed
    with. In reply to an observation of mine, that you regretted
    the inactive prospect before you, and looked with envy on
    those employed in Spain and Portugal, he said: "I make no
    doubt of it, but I can in no shape aid his plans in that
    respect; I would not, however, be the means of preventing
    them, and although from his local knowledge I should regret
    losing him in this country, yet I would not oppose it if he
    could obtain an appointment to the staff on service; but in
    that case I would ask for another general officer being seat
    in his place immediately to Upper Canada." I tell you this, my
    dear general, without reserve, and give you, as far as I can
    recollect, Sir James' words. If he liked you less, he might
    perhaps be more readily induced to let you go; as matters
    stand, I do not think he will, although I am convinced that he
    will feel very sincere regret in refusing you on a subject
    upon which you appear to be so anxious.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 22: In some book of Travels in Canada, Duncan's we think, it is stated that the highest
battery in Quebec is called Brock's Battery: we know not whether it is that erected by Sir
Isaac Brock.]

[Footnote 23: "The young and gallant" Captain Henry Lambert, mentioned above, was mortally
wounded in December, 1812, in command of H.M.S. Java, when she was captured by the American
frigate Constitution, of greatly superior force.]

[Footnote 24: The present General Vincent, colonel of the 69th foot. He was then major of the
49th.]

[Footnote 25: His niece.]

[Footnote 26: It has been remarked, that men with very small heads are seldom clever, and certainly
the Brocks of this family had large but well shaped heads, with full foreheads.]

[Footnote 27: The mother of Lady William Paget.]

[Footnote 28: Whatever may have been Colonel Murray's indiscretion on this occasion, he proved
himself one of the most gallant and enterprising officers in Canada during the war, and particularly
distinguished himself in the assault and capture of Fort Niagara, in December, 1813, where
he was severely wounded. If Colonel Murray admired Cobbett's writings he was not singular,
as he was perhaps the most forcible political writer in the English language.]

[Footnote 29: Afterwards Lieut.-General Sir William Thornton, K.C.B., &c.]

[Footnote 30: Sir Isaac Brock was several years in the 8th regiment, but this old man had probably
served with his brother, Lieut.-Colonel John Brock, who was many years in the 8th, in Upper
Canada.]

CHAPTER IV.

Brigadier Brock to Lieut.-Governor Gore.

    FORT GEORGE, Jan. 6, 1811.

    Having lately received a letter from Colonel Vesey, in which
    he urges me to ascertain whether it be possible to secure to
    his family some benefit from the grant of five thousand acres
    he has so long unprofitably held, I am encouraged by the
    disposition your excellency has uniformly evinced to serve
    him, to renew my earnest request that your influence may be
    now exerted in his behalf.

    I am given to understand that there are extensive tracts of
    excellent land at the disposal of the crown on Lake Erie, and
    that a new township is undergoing a survey near the head of
    Lake Ontario. Were it possible to ensure Colonel Vesey
    eligible situations in those districts, he no longer would
    hesitate in incurring the necessary expense.

    Your excellency having signified your intention of visiting
    England in the course of next summer, I am impelled to the
    present application by the consideration that before your
    return the land, which I have taken the liberty to point out,
    may be disposed of, and Colonel Vesey thereby lose the fair
    opportunity of acquiring property upon which he can
    confidently place some value.

Lieut.-Governor Gore to Brigadier Brock.

    YORK, January 21, 1811.

    Your letter of the 6th instant should have been earlier
    acknowledged, but that I was desirous to render my answer as
    satisfactory as possible, and it was necessary to refer to the
    offices, on the subject of the grant of land ordered for
    Colonel Vesey.

    I am very sorry now to be constrained to tell you, that it is
    not in my power to comply with Colonel Vesey's wish in respect
    of the location, without a special order from the king, as in
    the case of Colonel Talbot.

    The diagram by which the crown and clergy reserves are
    recorded, cannot be dispensed with, so that it is now
    impracticable to obtain in any township five thousand acres in
    a block.

    The townships lately surveyed are partial exceptions to the
    general rule, for the express purpose of establishing roads
    through the province, and the locations in that exception are
    by an act of government expressly reserved for actual
    settlers.

    The utmost in my power to do for Colonel Vesey is to adopt the
    latitude directed by his majesty in favor of General Arnold,
    which is to permit his representative to locate his land in
    any open township, and to pass the patent without his personal
    attendance.

    Exclusive of my very strong desire to serve Colonel Vesey, I
    beg you will believe that I should have had a very particular
    gratification in promoting the success of any measure for
    which you are pleased to express an interest.

Brigadier Brock to his brother Irving.

    NIAGARA, January 10, 1811.

    I cannot sufficiently thank you for your constant attention to
    me; you contribute largely to render my present sequestered
    abode tolerable, and let me entreat you to continue the
    practice you have lately adopted of sending me a letter every
    fortnight. In addition to the last daily paper, send me
    likewise the Observer, or any other weekly depository of
    domestic news. You, who have passed all your days in the
    bustle of London, can scarcely conceive the uninteresting and
    insipid life I am doomed to lead in this retirement. My
    situation obliges me to maintain some sort of establishment,
    otherwise I should, from inclination, confine my intercourse
    to a very limited circle. I have been for some days projecting
    a jaunt into the interior of the States, and I may probably
    visit New York before I return, but I shall weigh passing
    events well, ere I hazard so long a journey. The heavy rains
    which have fallen for the last ten days have delayed my
    progress, as I did not choose to undertake the journey on
    horseback. I by no means admire travelling alone in so
    comfortless a manner, in which the gratification would not
    repay the inconvenience.

    I purpose directing my steps in the first instance to
    Ballstown, a medicinal water of great celebrity, about twenty
    miles north of Albany. I then expect to be joined by James
    Brock, and probably by some others of the 49th. I shall wait
    ten days, not only to give him full time to come up, but
    likewise to try the efficacy of the waters, as I have an idea
    that they will be serviceable to me. I feel at this moment
    infinitely better, but am not quite the thing, without knowing
    what ails me. A sound jolting and change of air will produce
    wonders, and make me look once more upon a beefsteak with
    appetite. At present I live very abstemiously, and scarcely
    ever touch wine.

    I mentioned in a former letter that the new arrangements
    deprived me of the comfort of a companion. Expecting to obtain
    leave to visit England, I thought it of little consequence,
    but now that such an indulgence is denied me, I feel sadly the
    want of a lively, communicative associate. I hardly ever stir
    out, and, unless I have company at home, my evenings are
    passed solus. I read much, but good books are scarce, and I
    hate borrowing. I like to read a book quickly, and afterwards
    revert to such passages as have made the deepest impression,
    and which appear to me most important to remember--a practice
    I cannot conveniently pursue unless the book be mine. Should
    you find that I am likely to remain here, I wish you to send
    me some choice authors in history, particularly ancient, with
    maps, and the best translations of ancient works. I read in
    my youth Pope's Translation of Homer, but till lately never
    discovered its exquisite beauties. As I grow old, I acquire a
    taste for study. I firmly believe that the same propensity was
    always inherent in me, but, strange to tell, although many
    were paid extravagantly, I never had the advantage of a master
    to guide and encourage me. But it is now too late to repine. I
    rejoice that my nephews are more fortunate.

    The president's address is sufficiently hostile, and if I
    thought that he would be supported to the extent of his
    wishes, I should consider war to be inevitable. Congress will
    hesitate before consenting to go the length he proposes. The
    taking forcible possession of West Florida may provoke a war
    sooner than any other act, but it is impossible to foresee how
    such a step may be viewed by the Cortes. We are at this moment
    in awful suspense--the king's illness, the proximity of the
    armies under Massena and Wellington, and the measures our
    government may deem proper to adopt to meet the hostile
    proceedings of the Americans, afford serious matter for
    contemplation.

    I have seen "Thoughts on Political Fanaticism," in answer to
    your admirable pamphlet. The author appears to me to proclaim
    his servile attachment to Bonaparte, without in any degree
    refuting your arguments. When you tell me that Peter Tupper is
    a son of the jurat, and a member of the Junta of Valencia, you
    by no means satisfy my curiosity. Is he equal to fill the
    situation? Has he discretion, and is he distinguished by a
    strong mind and undaunted courage, as these are qualities that
    can alone be serviceable at such a crisis? I observed his name
    some little time back in the public prints, without knowing
    who he could be, and I suppose that he is my junior in age by
    several years.[31]

Colonel Kempt[32] (Quartermaster-General) to Brigadier Brock.

    QUEBEC, January 17, 1811.

    Baynes tells me that he has written to you repeatedly, and
    most fully and confidentially, on the subject of your
    application for leave. The letters, which I have received from
    home, explicitly state that the last brevet was made so
    extensive with the view of doing away with the appointment of
    brigadier, so that no general officer under the rank of
    major-general will be in future employed; independent of this
    circumstance, you have no reason, believe me, to dread being
    unemployed in any rank while you have a wish to serve,--this
    opinion, my dear general, is not given rashly or upon slight
    grounds,--before I came to this country I had, you must know,
    several opportunities of hearing your name mentioned at head
    quarters, both by General Calvert and Colonel Gordon, who
    unquestionably spoke the sentiments of the then
    commander-in-chief, and in such a way as to impress me with a
    thorough conviction that few officers of your rank stood
    higher in their estimation. In short, I have no manner of
    doubt whatever that you will readily obtain employment upon
    active service the moment that you do get home, and with
    this view I recommend you to express, through Baynes, your
    sense of his excellency's good intentions and wishes towards
    you in respect to leave of absence, and your hopes that when
    the circumstances of the country are such as will permit him
    to grant six months' leave to a general officer, that this
    indulgence will be extended in the first instance to you. I am
    very happy to find that you are pleased with Mrs. Murray: I
    have just received a long letter from her, giving me an
    account of a splendid ball given by you to the beau monde of
    Niagara and its vicinity, and the manner in which she speaks
    of your liberality and hospitality reminds me of the many
    pleasant hours I have passed under your roof. We have no such
    parties now, and the indisposition of Sir James having
    prevented the usual public days at the castle, nothing more
    stupid than Quebec now is can be imagined.

Colonel Baylies to Brigadier Brock, at Fort George.

    QUEBEC, February 14, 1811.

    From the sincere and lively interest which I am sure you feel
    for our worthy chief, I am happy to announce to you that an
    important change has taken place in his disease, from which
    his medical attendants augur, with great confidence, most
    essential and permanent relief. On Sunday last I received a
    summons to attend immediately at the castle, where Kempt was
    also called, and to our extreme astonishment he informed us
    that he was then about to undergo the operation of tapping, as
    he fully coincided with his medical attendants who advised it.
    Sir James (Craig) proceeded with great calmness to give me
    some instructions as his executor, in the event of any fatal
    consequence following, which he did with a degree of
    composure, and even cheerfulness, which only a mind like his
    can assume. We were present, at his request, at the operation,
    which appeared to me painfully tedious--but not an expression,
    or even a look of impatience, escaped Sir James, whose manner
    absolutely inspired spirits and fortitude to those around. At
    the close he stood up for several minutes to let the water
    drain from the higher parts of the body, and thirty-six pints,
    weighing nearly as many pounds, were altogether drawn off.

    Sir James lately received accounts of the 14th of November,
    that his brother, General Peter Craig, was then so reduced
    and weak from a long and severe illness, that no hopes were
    entertained of him. You will conceive what a severe shock this
    has been, the more so as Sir James never harboured a doubt
    that his elder brother, from his apparently stronger
    constitution, would have long survived him. Their mutual ties
    of relationship were in a manner concentrated in each other,
    for Sir James will have none left but of a very distant
    degree.

    I am happy to find by a long letter from Mrs. Murray to
    Colonel Kempt, that you have found the means of enlivening the
    solitary scene that has so long prevailed at Fort George. I
    assure you that we miss you much here, and that the
    fascinating Mrs. de Rottenburg, with all her charms, has not
    effaced the very universal regret which your loss occasions in
    Quebec.

Brigadier Brock to his brother Irving.

    NIAGARA, February 19, 1811.

    Nothing can be more considerate, nothing more friendly, than
    your constancy in writing to me. Your last letter is dated the
    26th November. What can I say from this remote corner in
    return for the pleasure I experience at the receipt of your
    letters? I have already described my sombre kind of life, but
    I am sure you will rejoice to hear that my present quiet has
    been productive of the essential good of restoring my health.
    I now consider myself quite re-established; therefore, my good
    Irving, dispel all your alarms on my account. I once thought
    of visiting Ballstown, but, as a trial of the springs there
    was my chief motive, I gave up the journey the moment I found
    there was no medical occasion to undertake it. I do not admire
    the manners of the American people. I have met with some whose
    society was every thing one could desire, and at Boston and
    New York such characters are, I believe, numerous, but these
    are the exceptions. Politics run very high at this moment, but
    the French faction have evidently the preponderance, and they
    style themselves republicans! Was ever any thing more absurd?
    A dreadful crash is not far off--I hope your friends have
    withheld their confidence in their public stocks. There have
    been many failures at New York, and the merchants there are in
    a state of great confusion and dismay.

    I returned recently from York, the capital of this province,
    where I passed ten days with the governor, (Gore,) as generous
    and as honest a being as ever existed. His lady is perfectly
    well bred and very agreeable. I found ample recompense in
    their society for the inconvenience of travelling over the
    worst roads I ever met with. The governor was formerly
    quartered with the 44th in Guernsey, and recollects vividly
    the society of those days.

    I seldom hear from James Brock, who dislikes writing to such a
    degree, that he hazards the loss of a friend rather than
    submit to the trouble; and what is strange, when he sets
    about it he expresses himself happily, and is highly
    entertaining.

    Sir James Craig has triumphed completely over the French
    faction in the Lower Province. By their conduct they have
    fully exemplified the character of their ancestors. The moment
    they found they could not intimidate by threats, they became
    as obsequious as they had been violent. The house of assembly
    passed every bill required of them, among others one
    authorizing the governor-general and three councillors to
    imprison any one without assigning a cause. The state of the
    country makes such a measure highly necessary. Sir James has
    been very ill, and it is supposed that he cannot long survive
    the fierce and frequent attacks of his disorder. His death,
    whenever it comes, will be bewailed by all who possess the
    feelings of Englishmen in this country. He appears determined
    to keep me near his person, and I hardly know how to
    accomplish my grand object of visiting England in opposition
    to his wishes. You may well imagine the regret I feel in being
    obliged to submit to a life of such complete idleness--but
    fate will have it so.

    We are all impatience and anxiety to learn the ultimate result
    of the king's indisposition, and the movements of the
    contending armies in Portugal. If we are to be governed by a
    regent, I trust that ambition, jealousy, or party interests,
    will not conspire to diminish or circumscribe his regal
    powers. These are not times to slacken the reins.

    Colonel Murray, 100th, went home last year, married, and
    brought out a charming little creature, full of good sense and
    spirit. They dined with me yesterday, and she appeared a
    little dejected in consequence of an idle report of the
    regiment being destined for the West Indies.

    Care ought to be taken to get William Potenger introduced into
    a quiet, well-behaved corps; the 49th would do very well, but
    I am not partial to Canada for a young soldier; the regiment
    has, however, been in it so long, that it cannot be continued
    many years. Throw him into the sea rather than allow him to
    join a wild Irish regiment.

    This country is getting very populous and rich. Great
    emigration from the States; Quakers especially come in
    numbers, and bring with them large sums. Assure William of my
    eternal esteem.

Brigadier Brock to Sir James Craig, K. B.

    NIAGARA, February 27, 1811.

    I have this day been honored by the receipt of your
    excellency's letter, dated the 4th instant. The subject to
    which it refers has occasioned serious reflection in my mind.
    If unfortunately the Indians be determined to commit acts of
    hostility in the spring, they are at too great a distance for
    us to succeed in any effort we may be disposed to make to
    avert so great a calamity. Therefore, the next consideration
    is the posture we are to assume in case of such an event;
    whether we are to remain in a state of strict neutrality,
    which doubtless the Americans will call upon us to observe,
    and thereby sacrifice our influence over the Indians; or,
    unmindful of the consequences, continue to them the accustomed
    supplies of food, arms, and ammunition.

    I lament to think that the Indians retired from the council,
    in which they declared their resolution of going to war, with
    a full conviction that, although they could not look for
    active co-operation on our part, yet they might rely with
    confidence upon receiving from us every requisite of war.

    Our cold attempt to dissuade that much-injured people from
    engaging in such a rash enterprise could scarcely be expected
    to prevail, particularly after giving such manifest
    indications of a contrary sentiment by the liberal quantity of
    military stores with which they were dismissed.

    I shall not fail in reporting every circumstance that may come
    to my knowledge relative to our connections with the Indians,
    which I think your excellency may desire to be acquainted
    with: I must look to officers commanding at the outposts for
    such information, as the lieut.-governor withholds from me all
    communications on the subject.

    Mr. Elliott, who has the management of the Indian department
    at Amherstburg, is an exceedingly good man, and highly
    respected by the Indians; but, having in his youth lived a
    great deal with them, he naturally has imbibed their feelings
    and prejudices, and partaking in the wrongs they continually
    suffer, this sympathy made him neglect the considerations of
    prudence, which ought to have regulated his conduct. If he had
    delayed the issue of presents until he reported their mission
    to Lieut.-Governor Gore, they would have returned to their
    companions, carrying with them the positive sentiments of
    government.

Brigadier Brock to Major Taylor, 100th Regiment, commanding at Amherstburg.

    NIAGARA, March 4, 1811.

    You omitted to report to me the important resolution which the
    Indians formally announced last autumn in council to have been
    adopted by the different nations, of going to war with the
    Americans. Having however received advice of the circumstance
    through other channels, I was enabled to communicate the
    interesting fact to head quarters, and now transcribe, for
    your individual information and future guidance, extracts of
    his excellency's secret and confidential answer, dated 4th
    ultimo:

    "Although the conduct of our intercourse with the Indians is
    by his majesty's command vested in the civil government of the
    province of Canada, and consequently the interference of
    military officers, otherwise than by being present at such
    councils as may be held as they are directed to be, would be
    improper, I nevertheless desire that you will instruct the
    officers in command at the different posts, particularly at
    Amherstburg, to report confidentially to you what may pass at
    those councils, as well as any other transactions in which the
    Indians are concerned, and which may come to their knowledge;
    these reports you will forward to me occasionally, as you may
    think them of importance."

    The conduct which the military are expected to pursue in their
    intercourse with the Indian department is so explicitly stated
    in the above, that I need not say a word more on the subject.
    But I think it highly necessary to put you in possession of
    the policy which Sir James Craig is very anxious may be
    observed in the present uncertain state of our political
    affairs.

    "I am decidedly of opinion, that upon every principle of
    policy our interest should lead us to use all our endeavours
    to prevent a rupture between the Indians and the subjects of
    the United States. Upon these considerations, I think it would
    be expedient to instruct the officers of the Indian department
    to use all their influence to dissuade the Indians from their
    projected plan of hostility, giving them clearly to understand
    that they must not expect any assistance from us. The
    officers, however, should be extremely cautious in pointing
    out to them that it is for their own good only that this
    advice is given to them, and not from any dereliction of that
    regard with which we always view their interests; it will
    perhaps require some management to avoid exciting their
    jealousy or resentment; the doing so must be strongly
    recommended."

    I wish you to comprehend clearly the sentiments of Sir James
    upon this essential point; because, although I entertain great
    respect for the personal character of Mr. Elliott, yet I
    should be unwilling to place entire dependance in an affair
    of such manifest importance, upon a judgment biased and
    prejudiced as his is known to be in every thing that regards
    the Indians. To act with due prudence, he participates in and
    feels too keenly the grievous wrongs they have suffered.
    Should you, therefore, perceive the smallest indication to
    depart from the line so strongly marked by his excellency for
    the government of the Indian officers, you will, without
    creating suspicion of an intention of controlling their
    measures, offer friendly advice, and even have recourse to
    written protests to deter them from persevering in any act
    that may have a tendency to irritate and expose the two
    nations to endless controversy. All this you of course will do
    as coming from yourself, and you will be very regular in
    reporting circumstantially every occurrence that may come to
    your knowledge, to enable me to conform strictly with the
    instructions of the commander-in-chief.

Colonel Baynes[33] to Brigadier Brock, at Fort George.

    QUEBEC, March 4, 1811.

    Sir James desires me to tell you that he had fully intended
    writing to you himself by this day's post, but, from the
    arrival of the January mail and the departure of the Halifax
    courier to-morrow, he finds himself so much occupied that he
    has deputed me to explain to you the cause of his not
    announcing to you by his own pen the resolution he finds
    himself under the necessity of adopting, of returning to
    England early in the summer. I think it probable that he will
    leave this by the July fleet; indeed, the extremely weak and
    debilitated state of his health will not admit of his
    deferring his departure longer, lest it might involve him in
    inconveniences attendant upon an equinoctial or fall passage.
    It is with the deepest regret I observe that his strength is
    visibly sinking under his disease, although the latter does
    not appear to have increased in violence; on the contrary, for
    this fortnight past he seems in better spirits and to suffer
    less pain: the first probably arises from the prospect of his
    being speedily relieved from the weight and anxiety of his
    public charge, for, with regard to himself, his mind is most
    perfectly made up, and resigned to a very speedy termination
    of all his sufferings; and his anxiety has been latterly much
    excited from the apprehension of his becoming too ill to be
    able to undertake the voyage, and being obliged to linger out
    the short remnant of his life in this country.

    I assure you he is very far from being indifferent in regard
    to forwarding your wishes; but from the necessity of his
    retiring himself, and even without waiting for leave to do so,
    he feels it the more indispensably necessary to leave this
    country in the best state of security he can, and that, under
    existing circumstances, he cannot attend to your request for
    leave. He desires me to say, that he regrets extremely the
    disappointment you may experience, and he requests that you
    will do him the favor to accept, as a legacy and mark of his
    very sincere regard, his favorite horse Alfred, and that he is
    induced to send him to you, not only from wishing to secure to
    his old favorite a kind and careful master, but from the
    conviction that the whole continent of America could not
    furnish you with so safe and excellent a horse. Alfred is ten
    years old, but being a high bred horse, and latterly but very
    little worked, he may be considered as still perfectly fresh.
    Sir James will give him up to Heriot, whenever you fix the
    mode of his being forwarded to you.

    I have requested Sir James to allow me to accompany him home,
    a duty I should feel a most grateful pleasure in performing;
    but with a kind regard to what he thinks more to my interest,
    he will not accede to my wishes, but insists on my remaining
    here, as he thinks that my appointment will be considered
    permanent. Kempt goes home, his private affairs requiring his
    presence, and having strong ground to hope that he will be
    able to resign his staff for an active brigade; although his
    senior in years and length of service, I must still wait a
    long time before I can direct my ambition to so desirable an
    object.

    You will have seen by Sir James' speech, the very complete
    triumph his firmness and energy have obtained over the
    factious cabal of their most contemptible assembly. Bedard
    will be shortly released--that fellow alone of the whole gang
    has nerve, and does not want ability or inclination to do
    mischief whenever opportunity offers; the rest, old Papineau
    and the blustering B----, are all white-livered runagates to a
    man; but when Sir James' back is turned, they will rally and
    commence the same bullying attack on his successor, who, I
    trust, will follow his example.

Colonel J.A. Vesey to Brigadier Brock.

    HAMPTON COURT PARK, April 9, 1811.

    I am bound to Sicily in about a fortnight, as a
    brigadier-general on the staff there, and I am told that Lord
    William Bentinck, who is destined to command the forces in
    that island, will be the bearer of instructions to insist upon
    the command of the Sicilian army likewise.

    I thank you much for the interesting details of local
    politics, both military and civil, which your letter contains,
    for I feel a more than common wish to know what passes in
    Canada, although I am certainly not partial to that
    country--quite the reverse. It is a pity that the 49th should
    be detained there so long, as it will interfere materially
    with the promotion of your officers. I fear you will have
    passed a lonely winter at Fort George, notwithstanding the
    addition of my friend Murray and his nice little wife to your
    society. Pray remember me kindly to them and to my old
    friend, St. George. Mrs. Vesey has charged me to call her to
    your recollection in the kindest manner; she and my six
    children are as well as possible, and a very nice little group
    they are, all as healthy as can be. I wish I had a daughter
    old enough for you, as I would give her to you with pleasure.
    You should be married, particularly as fate seems to detain
    you so long in Canada--but pray do not marry there.

Colonel Vesey to Brigadier Brock.

    HAMPTON COURT PARK, May 9, 1811.

    I received a few days ago your letter of the 22d February, for
    which I thank you very much. I am very much obliged to you for
    taking so much trouble about my grant of land, respecting
    which I have not taken any steps whatever here, neither shall
    I so long as Lord Liverpool continues to direct the affairs of
    the colonial department, for he is not friendly to me, but I
    will reserve my claims for a more favorable moment. I am not
    the less thankful for your friendship on the occasion.

    I quite feel for you, my good friend, when I think of the
    stupid and uninteresting time you must have passed in Upper
    Canada--with your ardour for professional employment in the
    field, it must have been very painful. I did not think Sir
    James (Craig) would have detained you so long against your
    will. Had you returned to Europe, there is little doubt but
    that you would immediately have been employed in Portugal,
    and, as that service has turned out so very creditable, I
    regret very much that you had not deserted from Canada. I take
    it for granted that you will not stay there long, and should
    the fortune of war bring us again upon duty in the same
    country, I need not say how I shall hail the event with joy.
    If you come to England, I would wish you to call upon the Duke
    of Kent,[34] who has a high respect for you, and will be happy
    to see you.

    It seems determined that the Duke of York shall return to the
    command of the army; it would have taken place ere now, but
    for some ill-natured remarks inserted in some of the
    newspapers, produced by an over zeal on the part of his
    friends. Sir David (Dundas) will not be much regretted, and it
    surely is time that at his advanced period of life he should
    be relieved from the cares of office.

    I am rejoiced to find that you live so comfortably with my
    friend Murray and his nice little wife. Mrs. Vesey and myself
    took a great fancy to her the morning she called here, on
    their way to Portsmouth.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 31: Peter Carey Tupper, Esq., a native of Guernsey, British consul for Valencia at
this time, and afterwards for Catalonia. He distinguished himself from 1808 to 1814, in encouraging
the Spaniards to resist the invasion of Napoleon; and his name occurs repeatedly in the Duke
of Wellington's Dispatches, recently published, as also in the first and fourth volumes of
Napoleon's Peninsular War. He died in Madrid in 1825, in the prime of life. His youngest brother
was British consul for Caraccas, and afterwards for Riga.]

[Footnote 32: The present General Sir James Kempt, G.C.B., &c, afterwards governor-general
of British America, and subsequently master-general of the ordnance in Earl Grey's administration.]

[Footnote 33: Owing to the communication by post between Lower and Upper Canada being so slow
at this period, we observe that many of Colonel Baynes' letters to Brigadier Brock, at Fort
George, were transmitted through the United States. There was only a post once a fortnight
between Montreal and Kingston, and in Upper Canada the post office was scarcely established.]

[Footnote 34: The father of her present Majesty, Queen Victoria.]

CHAPTER V.

On the 4th June, 1811, Brigadier Brock was promoted, and appointed by the prince regent to
serve from that day as a major-general on the staff of North America. On the 19th of the same
month, Sir James Craig embarked on board his majesty's ship Amelia for England, leaving Mr.
Dunn in charge of the government of the Lower Province, and Lieut.-General Drummond in command
of the forces in the Canadas, consisting of 445 artillery, 3,783 regular troops, and 1,226
Fencibles; in all, 5,454 men. He seemed disgusted with the cares of a government, in which
he had experienced only crosses and mortification, as his administration was decidedly unpopular
among the great mass of the French Canadians. His health had long been wasting away with a
dropsy and other infirmities, and he doubted whether he should live to reach England, where
he however survived several months, and met with a most gracious reception from his immediate
superiors. Sir James Craig had been from his youth in the service of his country,[35] and he
owed to merit alone his rank and consideration in the army. He was corpulent in person, and
rather below the middle stature; his features were strong and regular, his aspect was severe
and imposing, his deportment, manly and dignified; in society he was polite, frank, and affable.
He is said to have been positive in his opinions, and therefore prompt and decisive in his
measures. To a clear and comprehensive judgment, he united the best qualities of the heart,
and though hasty in temper, he was easily reconciled to those who might involuntarily have
incurred his resentment. In fine, he seems to have possessed all the sterling and undisguised
virtues that distinguish the soldier, and some of the qualities that constitute the able statesman.
Although many differed widely in opinion with respect to his government, yet few could deny
him the merit of disinterestedness and integrity in the discharge of his public duties. He
may have erred in the performance of the important and complicated functions of his post, but
he was guided by sincerity; and it is due to his memory to add, that the objects of his administration,
however erroneous the means he pursued for their attainment, were the concord, the happiness,
and the prosperity of the people whom he governed for nearly four years.[36]

Major-General Vesey to Major-General Brock.

    PORTSMOUTH, June 10, 1811.

    I congratulate you on your promotion, and you may return me
    the compliment. I did not expect to appear in the same brevet
    with you as a major-general; it has so happened, however, and
    I am not at all sorry to go out to Sicily as major-general
    instead of a brigadier. You have such a lot of generals in
    Canada at present, that it is impossible to continue them all
    upon the staff. Your wish will be to come home, I dare say,
    and very glad I should be if you were in England at present,
    while all the arrangements are making. It may perhaps be your
    fate to go to the Mediterranean, but the Peninsula is the most
    direct road to the honor of the Bath, and as you are an
    ambitious man, that is the station you would prefer--so should
    I, but I have been advised not to solicit for it, but to go
    where I was ordered; therefore, am I proceeding. I need not
    say how rejoiced I should be if you were of the party.

    The return of the duke of York to the head of the army gives
    general satisfaction to all military people, and indeed to
    most others I fancy: his old worn-out predecessor has long
    been superannuated. I still retain my appointment of deputy
    barrack master-general in Nova Scotia, to the astonishment of
    every body, because I suppose they do not like to take it from
    me par force, without giving me something in lieu of it. I
    have told the treasury that I would not give it up upon any
    other terms than for my lieutenant-colonelcy, but that they
    had the power of taking it from me if they chose to do me that
    injustice: I suppose they will as soon as my back is turned.
    Lord William Bentinck is expected down to-day; he goes to
    Sicily in the Caledonia, with Sir Edward Pellew. As it is
    possible you may have left Canada, I shall enclose this letter
    to our friend Bruyeres; bid him read it and forward it if you
    are yet in that country.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock, at Montreal.

    QUEBEC, August 3, 1811.

    We were very much surprised on Thursday last by the arrival of
    the Racoon, sloop of war, from Jamaica, with the duke of
    Manchester on board, who is come with the view of visiting the
    lions of Canada previous to his return to England; he is gone,
    attended by General Drummond, to see the falls of Montmorenci,
    and the general desires me to let you know that his grace
    intends leaving this in the stage on Tuesday morning for
    Montreal. The duke has no attendant except a Colonel Gold,
    ci-devant militaire; he appears to be very affable, and
    perfectly sans façon; he particularly requested that no
    compliments or ceremony of any kind might be shown him, and
    that he might be permitted to indulge his fancy by going about
    as he pleased. His grace is not likely to have many volunteer
    aides-de-camp, for he treated those who formed his suite
    yesterday to a walk of half a dozen hours in the sun at
    mid-day round the works, the towers, plains, &c.; and from
    which he did not appear to experience the slightest
    inconvenience, being in the habit, we are told, of taking
    similar rambles even in the West Indies. The duke will pay you
    but a very short visit, being limited for time, and anxious to
    make his tour as extensive as possible. He seems to like a
    glass of Madeira, and would match any of the Canadian tribe in
    smoking cigars; he walks about with one in his mouth at all
    hours in the day. He begs you will have the kindness to secure
    for him a boat and a good Canadian crew to proceed to
    Kingston, and to facilitate his progress from that place,
    inasmuch as it may be in your power to do so. I apprehend that
    the movement of the troops may very materially interfere with
    him, but the duke will not object to embarking with any of the
    detachments if no other vessel can be spared.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock, at William Henry, Sorel.

    QUEBEC, August 12, 1811.

    I have to acknowledge and thank you for your letter of the 8th
    instant. I regret much that you did not find it convenient to
    remain at Montreal to receive the duke of Manchester, as I
    think you would have felt gratified; and if you could have
    reconciled to your own feelings the want of due preparation
    for the reception of so great a personage, I am sure, from
    the specimen we had of his grace here, that he would have been
    perfectly satisfied, and happy to have shared your fare. He
    does not appear to be a lady's man--perhaps a little too much
    the contrary, and I am confident that a dinner with a few
    gentlemen, and an invitation to smoke, would suit his taste in
    preference to a formal fête. On an excursion to the Chaudière,
    of which Mrs. Drummond and other ladies formed part, his grace
    appeared to be very little at his ease until he effected his
    escape out of the frigate's barge into one of the small boats
    that was in attendance with his compagnon de voyage and the
    commander of the sloop, when, with the aid of his favorite
    cigar, he appeared to be perfectly happy. I mention these
    traits in order that you may be prepared to receive him or not
    on his return, as you think best. I am sure he would prefer
    William Henry to sleep at in preference to Montreal.

      *      *      *      *      *

After an inter-regnum of nearly three months, Sir George Prevost arrived at Quebec in September,
and assumed the government of Lower Canada, having succeeded Sir James Craig in the chief command
of the British North American provinces. The known mildness of his character, and the popularity
of his administration in Nova Scotia, from which he had been just promoted, afforded a hope
that his government of Lower Canada would prove more auspicious to the internal union of the
people than that of his predecessor. Sir George Prevost had moreover the advantage of being,
we believe, a Canadian born, and, as his name indicates, his family was doubtless of French
origin, a circumstance which the French Canadians could not fail to appreciate. Soon after
his arrival, Major-General Brock, in addition to the command of the troops, was appointed president
and administrator of the government in Upper Canada, to which office he succeeded on the 9th
October, 1811, in place of Lieut.-Governor Gore, who returned to England on leave. At the close
of the year, his royal highness the duke of York expressed at length every inclination to gratify
Major-General Brock's wishes for more active employment in Europe, and Sir George Prevost was
authorized to replace him by another officer; but when the permission reached Canada, early
in 1812, a war with the United States was evidently near at hand, and Major-General Brock,
with such a prospect, was retained both by honor and inclination in the country.

Lieut.-General Drummond[37] to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, August 31, 1811.

    I have just been favored with your kind letter, and return
    many thanks for your friendly congratulations. Under present
    circumstances, it must be the wish of every military person
    to seek active employment; I should most willingly sacrifice
    many domestic comforts to obtain it, but I fear the rank I
    have just attained will interfere with my prospects. I have
    often regretted, during my residence in this country, that we
    have been so much separated, which has deprived me of the
    opportunity of cultivating your friendship, which I shall ever
    feel anxious to possess; and be assured it will always afford
    me the most sincere satisfaction to renew an acquaintance with
    one for whom I have so great a regard. Captain Glegg's
    appointment will be in general orders to-day. Captain and Mrs.
    Fulton arrived this morning: I have not seen him yet. I
    understand Sir George Prevost was to embark three days after
    the Hunter sailed. I shall probably embark in the Melamphus,
    for Halifax, and from thence in the packet for England: should
    you have any commands, I shall be happy to charge myself with
    them. Mrs. Drummond unites with me in sincere wishes for your
    health and happiness.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, October 7, 1811.

    I have a letter from Thornton of the 2d of August; the party
    arrived at Deal on the 27th of July. Sir James (Craig) bore
    the passage remarkably well, and he has received the most
    flattering and satisfactory assurances that his conduct, civil
    and military, has met with the most unqualified approbation.
    Kempt has experienced a very honorable reception: the duke
    told him he would give him a carte blanche as to his future
    destination; he has requested to have a brigade under Lord
    Wellington, and was preparing to go to the Peninsula. Thornton
    does not allude to the probability of its effecting his
    present post, as he says Kempt writes to you at length, and
    will tell you of himself. Ellice[38] has found great
    difficulty in effecting an exchange. Dalrymple, Sir Hew's
    eldest son, had no objection till he found that the duke set
    his face against the continued exchange of that post, and that
    he would not permit it to be made a mere stepping stone for
    the brevet rank. He in consequence declined it, and Ellice is
    on the hunt for a lazy married major of dragoons, who has no
    objection to obtain it as a fixture. Thornton has been
    appointed to a regiment, but he neglects to mention the
    number, although he enters into a long explanation respecting
    it, viz. that it is of two battalions, the second in Portugal
    and the first in the East Indies, but, by a recent regulation,
    the senior lieutenant-colonel has the option of remaining in
    command of the second in Portugal if he chooses. Thornton has
    obtained leave to go, in the first instance, to his corps in
    Portugal, so as to endeavour to persuade his senior that India
    is a more desirable quarter: if he fails in his rhetoric, he
    expects shortly to travel that route himself.

The following paragraph is copied verbatim from Thornton's letter; he is connected with Torrens
and in habits of familiar intimacy, so that I am inclined to think he draws his inference from
that quarter: "Pray give a hint in private to Generals Brock and Sheaffe, that if the former
were to ask for a brigade at home, or on European service, and the latter to be put on the
staff in Canada, I am almost certain they would succeed."

Lieut.-Colonel Torrens to Major-General Brock.

    HORSE GUARDS, October 17, 1811.

    I have had the pleasure of receiving your letter of the 6th of
    July, and I beg you will be convinced that I should derive
    much satisfaction from the power of complying with your wishes
    as far as my situation might enable me to facilitate the
    accomplishment of the object you have expressed of returning
    to England.

    I have made known your wishes to the commander-in-chief, and
    his royal highness has expressed every inclination to comply
    with them. But until another officer shall join the station,
    you will be readily aware of the difficulty his royal highness
    would have in withdrawing you, by leave of absence or
    otherwise, during the present state of public affairs with the
    American government.

    Should you wish, however, to quit the Canadian staff with a
    view to serve in Europe, his royal highness will not object to
    your return to this country, under the arrangement of your
    being immediately succeeded by another officer. And as
    Major-General Sheaffe is on the spot, and has strong claims to
    employment on the staff, his royal highness will have no
    objection to furnish Sir George Prevost with an authority to
    employ that officer in your room, provided he has not yet left
    Canada.

    I trust this arrangement may be acceptable to you. An official
    communication to the effect of this note will be made to Sir
    George Prevost.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, November 21, 1811.

    We fortunately received yesterday the last batch of recruits
    for the 41st regiment, as from the present state of the
    weather and appearance of the river, I fear their situation
    would have been very desperate. They have, poor devils, been
    sixteen weeks and four days on their passage, and have
    suffered much from dysentery. Four men have died, and several
    are sick; but as the former detachment recovered fast when
    landed and taken care of, I doubt not that these will also:
    they amount to three hundred, and are in general very fine
    young men. What a noble battalion they will make when brought
    together; and the officers say that about 200 more were left
    at the depôt, for want of room in the transport.

    What do you think of the president's speech? In any government
    more consistent, it would mean war. I think that he has
    committed himself more openly and more unjustifiably than
    could have been expected, in the relation of the affair of
    the Little Belt, by accusing that poor little sloop of a
    wanton act of aggression by attacking a huge American frigate,
    when Commodore Rodgers himself admits that he was for nearly
    eight hours the chasing vessel.

    Governor Gore has revived the formation of the Glengary
    Fencibles, and I have shewn Sir George what passed on a former
    occasion. I hope the latter will be able to provide for his
    school-fellow, Major-General Sheaffe,[39] and he expresses
    himself very anxious to do so.

Major-General Brock to Lieut.-General Sir G. Prevost, Bart., at Quebec.

    YORK, December 2, 1811.

    The information contained in the message of the president to
    congress, relative to the existing differences between England
    and the United States, will justify, I presume to think, the
    adoption of such precautionary measures as may be necessary to
    meet all future exigencies. Under this impression, I beg leave
    to submit to your excellency such observations as occur to me,
    to enable you to form a correct judgment; of the actual state
    of this province.

    The military force which heretofore occupied the frontier
    posts being so inadequate to their defence, a general opinion
    prevailed that no opposition, in the event of hostilities, was
    intended. The late increase of ammunition and every species of
    stores, the substitution of a strong regiment, and the
    appointment of a military person to administer the government,
    have tended to infuse other sentiments among the most
    reflecting part of the community; and I feel happy in being
    able to assure your excellency, that during my visit last week
    at Niagara, I received the most satisfactory professions of a
    determination on the part of the principal inhabitants to
    exert every means in their power in the defence of their
    property and support of the government. They look with
    confidence to your excellency for such additional aid as may
    be necessary, in conjunction with the militia, to repel any
    hostile attempt against this province.

    I shall beg leave to refer your excellency to the
    communications of Lieut.-Governor Gore with Sir James Craig,
    for a correct view of the temper and composition of the
    militia and Indians. Although perfectly aware of the number of
    improper characters who have obtained extensive possessions,
    and whose principles diffuse a spirit of insubordination very
    adverse to all military institutions, I am however well
    assured that a large majority would prove faithful. It is
    certain that the best policy to be pursued, should future
    circumstances call for active preparations, will be to act
    with the utmost liberality, and as if no mistrust existed;
    for, unless the inhabitants give an active and efficient aid,
    it will be utterly impossible for the very limited number of
    the military, who are likely to be employed, to preserve the
    province.

    The first point to which I am anxious to call your
    excellency's attention, is the district of Amherstburg. I
    consider it the most important, and, if supplied with the
    means of commencing active operations, must deter any
    offensive attempt on this province, from Niagara westward. The
    American government will be compelled to secure their western
    frontier from the inroads of the Indians, and this cannot be
    effected without a very considerable force. But before we can
    expect an active co-operation on the part of the Indians, the
    reduction of Detroit and Michilimakinack must convince that
    people, who conceive themselves to have been sacrificed, in
    1794,[40] to our policy, that we are earnestly engaged in the
    war. The Indians, I am made to understand, are eager for an
    opportunity to avenge the numerous injuries of which they
    complain. A few tribes, at the instigation of a Shawnese,[41]
    of no particular note, have already, although explicitly told
    not to look for assistance from us, commenced the contest. The
    stand which they continue to make upon the Wabash, against
    about 2,000 Americans, including militia and regulars, is a
    strong proof of the large force which a general combination of
    the Indians will render necessary to protect so widely
    extended a frontier.

    The garrisons of Detroit and Michilimakinack do not, I
    believe, exceed seventy rank and file each; but the former can
    be easily reinforced by the militia in the neighbourhood,
    which, though not numerous, would be ample for its defence,
    unless assailed by a force much superior to any we can now
    command. The Americans will probably draw their principal
    force, either for offence or defence, from the Ohio, an
    enterprising, hardy race, and uncommonly expert on horseback
    with the rifle. This species of force is formidable to the
    Indians, although, according to reports which have reached me
    by different channels, but not official, they lately repelled
    an attack of some magnitude. Unless a diversion, such as I
    have suggested, be made, an overwhelming force will probably
    be directed against this part of the province. The measure
    will, however, be attended with a heavy expense, especially in
    the article of provision, for, not only the Indians who take
    the field, but their families, must be maintained.

    The numeral force of the militia in the vicinity of
    Amherstburg exceeds by a trifle seven hundred rank and file;
    consequently, very little assistance can be derived from that
    source in any offensive operation. Should, therefore, the
    aspect of affairs hereafter give stronger indications of a
    rupture, I propose augmenting the garrison of Amherstburg
    with two hundred rank and file from Fort George and York. Such
    a measure I consider essentially necessary, were it only
    calculated to rouse the energy of the militia and Indians, who
    are now impressed with a firm belief, that in the event of war
    they are to be left to their fate. Great pains have been taken
    to instil this idea into their minds, and no stronger argument
    could be employed than the weak state of that garrison.

    The army now assembled upon the Wabash, with the ostensible
    view of opposing the Shawnese, is a strong additional motive
    in my mind in support of this measure; for I have no doubt
    that, the instant their service in the field terminates, a
    large portion of the regulars will be detached to strengthen
    the garrison of Detroit. I have prepared Colonel Proctor for
    such an event, and after weighing the inconvenience to which
    the service would be exposed if the district were placed under
    a militia colonel, (an event obvious, unless superseded by a
    regular officer of equal rank) I have directed Lieut.-Colonel
    St. George to be in readiness to repair to Amherstburg and
    assume the command; and I hope his situation of inspector of
    militia will not be considered a bar to the arrangement. The
    state of the roads will probably stop this projected movement
    until the end of this month or beginning of the next; nor do I
    intend that the troops should leave their present quarters,
    unless urged by some fresh circumstances. I therefore look to
    receive your excellency's commands previous to their
    departure.

    From Amherstburg to Fort Erie, my chief dependance must rest
    on a naval force for the protection of that extensive coast;
    but, considering the state to which it is reduced,
    extraordinary exertions and great expense will be required
    before it can be rendered efficient. At present, it consists
    only of a ship and a small schooner--the latter of a bad
    construction, old, and in want of many repairs; yet she is the
    only king's vessel able to navigate Lake Huron, whilst the
    Americans have a sloop, and a fine brig capable of carrying
    twelve guns, both in perfect readiness for any service. If,
    consequently, the garrison of St. Joseph's is to be
    maintained, and an attack on Michilimakinack undertaken, it
    will be expedient to hire, or purchase from the merchants, as
    many vessels as may be necessary for the purpose. The
    Americans can resort to the same means, and the construction
    and number of their vessels for trade will give them great
    advantage: besides, their small craft, or boats, in which
    troops could be easily transported, exceed ours considerably;
    indeed, we have very few of that description. I therefore
    leave it to your excellency's superior judgment to determine
    whether a sufficient number of gun-boats for both lakes, so
    constructed as to draw little water, ought not be added to our
    means of offence and defence. It is worthy of remark, that the
    only American national vessel on Lake Ontario, built two years
    ago, and now lying in Sackett's harbour, has remained without
    seamen until within the last fortnight, when the officers
    began to enter men as fast as possible. A lieutenant with a
    party came to Buffalo, a tolerably large village opposite Fort
    Erie, and procured several hands, but, not satisfied, a petty
    officer was sent to our side to inveigle others. The
    magistrates, hearing of this, sent to apprehend him; but he
    escaped with difficulty.

    The strait between Niagara and Fort Erie is that which, in all
    probability, will be chosen by the Americans for their main
    body to penetrate with a view to conquest. All other attacks
    will be subordinate, or merely made to divert our attention.
    About three thousand militia could, upon an emergency, be
    drawn by us to that line, and nearly five hundred Indians
    could also be collected; therefore, with the regulars, no
    trifling force could hope for success, provided a determined
    resistance were made; but I cannot conceal from your
    excellency, that unless a strong regular force be present to
    animate the loyal and to control the disaffected, nothing
    effectual can be expected. A protracted resistance upon this
    frontier will be sure to embarrass the enemy's plans
    materially. They will not come prepared to meet it, and their
    troops, or volunteer corps, without scarcely any discipline,
    so far at least as control is in question, will soon tire
    under disappointment. The difficulty which they will
    experience in providing provisions will involve them in
    expenses, under which their government will soon become
    impatient.

    The car brigade will be particularly useful in obstructing
    their passage; and I cannot be too urgent in soliciting the
    means, both as to gunners and drivers, and likewise as to
    horses, to render this arm complete for service. A small body
    of cavalry would also be absolutely necessary, and I have
    already offers from many respectable young men, to form
    themselves into a troop. All they seem to require are swords
    and pistols, which the stores below may probably be able to
    furnish.

    The situation of Kingston is so very important in every
    military point of view, that I cannot be too earnest in
    drawing your excellency's attention to that quarter. The
    militia, from the Bay of Quinti down to Glengary, is the most
    respectable of any in the province. Among the officers several
    are on half pay, and still retain a sound military spirit.
    Those from the Bay of Quinti would be properly stationed at
    Kingston, but all downwards would naturally desire to be
    employed to resist any predatory excursions to which their
    property would be so much exposed from the opposite shore.
    Besides, I have always been of opinion that a strong
    detachment would follow the route of Lord Amherst, and attempt
    to enter the province by Ozwegatchie.[42] The militia on the
    whole of that communication cannot, therefore, be more
    usefully employed than in watching such a movement; and should
    the enemy direct the whole of his force by St. John's, the
    greater part can with the utmost facility join the army acting
    upon that frontier.

    The militia act, which I have the honor to enclose, provides
    for such an emergency, but your excellency will readily
    observe, that among many wise and salutary provisions, there
    are but few means of enforcing them. No exertions, however,
    shall be wanting in my civil capacity to place that body upon
    a respectable footing. Mr. Cartwright, the senior militia
    colonel at Kingston, possesses the influence to which his firm
    character and superior abilities so deservedly entitle him;
    but as I cannot possibly give the necessary attention to so
    distant an object, and as a regular officer will be
    indispensable to direct the operations, one of high rank
    ought, if possible, to be nominated to that command. So much
    will remain to be done, and such high expenses to be incurred
    in the quartermaster-general's departments, that I cannot too
    earnestly request your excellency to select an officer who may
    be equal to discharge the various duties of that office. A
    head to the commissariat will be likewise indispensable.

    I have trespassed greatly on your excellency's time, but I beg
    to be permitted to entreat your excellency to honor me with
    such advice and counsel as your experience may suggest, and be
    assured it will ever be my utmost pride to meet your views and
    to merit your approbation.

Major-General Brock to Lieut.-General Sir G. Prevost.

    YORK, December 3, 1811.

    I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
    excellency's dispatch, dated the 11th ultimo, with its
    enclosures.

    My first care, on my arrival in this province, was to direct
    the officers of the Indian department at Amherstburg to exert
    their whole influence with the Indians to prevent the attack
    which I understood a few tribes meditated against the American
    frontier. But their efforts proved fruitless, as such was the
    infatuation of the Indians, that they refused to listen to
    advice; and they are now so deeply engaged, that I despair of
    being able to withdraw them from the contest in time to avert
    their destruction. A high degree of fanaticism, which had been
    for years working in their minds, has led to the present
    event.

    I had the honor yesterday of receiving your excellency's
    letter of the 1st ultimo, stating your intention of
    establishing depôts of small arms, accoutrements and
    ammunition, at the different posts in Upper Canada.

    Since the settlement of the province, several hundred stands
    have been at different times issued to the militia, and I have
    given directions for collecting them, but in all probability
    great deficiencies will be found; indeed, it has already been
    ascertained that those delivered in 1795 by the late
    Lieut.-General Simcoe are wholly lost to the service. To
    obviate for the future such an extensive waste, I propose
    fixing upon proper places at each post, wherein the arms may
    be deposited after the militia have exercised; and I have to
    request your excellency's permission to direct the field train
    department to attend to their preservation, and keep them in a
    state of repair, in the same manner as those remaining in
    store. The expense cannot be great, and in all such cases the
    infant state of the country obliges the militia to have
    recourse to the military.

    I have recently had occasion to report for your excellency's
    information, the total want of stores at this post, beyond
    those immediately necessary for the commissariat. I shall
    consequently be much at a loss to find accommodation for the
    2,329 French muskets which your excellency has directed to be
    sent here; and as the only magazine is a small wooden shed,
    not sixty yards from the king's house, which is rendered
    dangerous from the quantity of powder it already contains, I
    cannot but feel a repugnance to lodge the additional 13,140
    ball cartridges intended for this post in a place so evidently
    insecure. But as these arrangements cannot conveniently take
    place until the opening of the navigation, there will be
    sufficient time to contrive the best means to meet your
    excellency's wishes.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, December 12, 1811.

    [OFFICIAL]

    I am directed to transmit herewith a copy of proposals for
    raising a corps of Glengary Fencibles. The commander of the
    forces has selected an officer of the king's regiment, a
    Captain George M'Donnell, an avowed catholic, and a relation
    of the Glengary priest of that name, to attempt the formation
    of a small battalion, to be in the first instance under his
    command with the rank of major; and in case a more respectable
    body can be collected, a lieutenant-colonel commandant will be
    appointed. Captain M'Donnell will leave this in a few days,
    and he will be directed to take an early opportunity of
    communicating with you as soon as he has felt his ground a
    little in Glengary, and is able to form a correct idea of the
    prospect and extent of success that is likely to attend his
    exertions.

    I shall have the honor of sending you by the next post a
    regulation for the payment of clergymen performing religious
    duties for the troops at the different stations in Canada. The
    officiating clergyman at York will receive the garrison
    allowances of a captain, together with a salary of £70 army
    sterling per annum.

    [PRIVATE.]

    Sir George will fill up the new Glengary corps with as many
    officers as he can from the line, with permanent rank, and I
    have availed myself of the opportunity to propose one, in
    whose advancement I know you feel an interest. He has allowed
    me to note Lieutenant Shaw, of the 49th, for a company, and
    you are at liberty to inform his father, the general, of Sir
    George's favorable intentions towards his son.

Sir George Prevost to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, December 24, 1811.

    I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
    the 2d instant, which reached me by the courier on Saturday,
    and I have not failed to give it that consideration which the
    importance of the several points, to which it alludes,
    entitles it.

    In addition to the president's message being full of
    gunpowder, the report made to congress by its committee on the
    state of the foreign affairs of the United States, conveys
    sentiments of such decided hostility towards England, that I
    feel justified in recommending such precaution as may place
    you in a state of preparation for that event; and with this
    view you must endeavour to trace an outline of co-operation,
    compensating for our deficiency in strength. I agree with you
    as to the advantages which may result from giving, rather than
    receiving, the first blow; but it is not my opinion war will
    commence by a declaration of it. That act would militate
    against the policy of both countries; therefore, we must
    expect repeated petty aggressions from our neighbours, before
    we are permitted to retaliate by open hostilities. It is very
    satisfactory to observe the professions of the inhabitants of
    Upper Canada in defence of their property and in support of
    their government.

    I will look into the correspondence you refer to, which took
    place between Sir James Craig and Lieut.-Governor Gore, in
    1807, 1808 and 1809, respecting the temper and disposition of
    your militia, and the policy to be observed in your
    intercourse with the Indians.

    Your views, in regard to the line of conduct to be observed
    towards the militia forces, notwithstanding some existing
    circumstances unfavorable in their composition, are in my
    estimation wise, and on such conceptions I have hitherto
    acted.

    There are too many considerations to allow me to hesitate in
    saying we must employ the Indians, if they can be brought to
    act with us. The utmost caution should be used in our language
    to them, and all direct explanation should be delayed, if
    possible, until hostilities are more certain; though whenever
    the subject is adverted to, I think it would be advisable
    always to intimate that, as a matter of course, we shall, in
    the event of war, expect the aid of our brothers. Although I
    am sensible this requires delicacy, still it should be done so
    as not to be misunderstood.

    I shall call the attention of the commissariat to the supply
    of provisions that may be required in the Upper Province; and
    I had, previously to the arrival of your letter, given
    directions for the building of another schooner for Lake Erie.

[The remainder of this letter is of no interest.]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 35: While Colonel Craig, he was lieutenant-governor of Guernsey, in 1793, but only
for a few months.]

[Footnote 36: Memoirs of the Administration of the Colonial Government of Lower Canada, by
Sir James Henry Craig and Sir George Prevost, from the year 1807 until the year 1815; comprehending
the Military and Naval operations in the Canadas during the late War with the United States
of America. By Robert Christie.--Quebec, 1818.]

[Footnote 37: The present General Sir Gordon Drummond, G.C.B., colonel of the 49th foot. He
succeeded to the command of the forces in Upper Canada in December, 1813.]

[Footnote 38: Lieut.-Colonel Ellice, inspecting field officer of militia.]

[Footnote 39: The present General Sir Roger H. Sheaffe, Bart., colonel of the 36th regiment,
born at Boston, United States, 15th July, 1763, and entered the British army on the 1st May, 1778.

N.B.--On the day on which the last sheet was printed, we discovered that we had been misled
by the Times of 24th November, 1835, in stating our belief that Sir George Prevost was "Canadian
born." He was born at New York, May 19, 1767--his father, a native of Geneva, settled in England,
and became a major-general in the British army--his mother was Dutch, and as regards nativity,
Sir George Prevost was certainly not an Englishman, so that our remark at page 95 on this point
applies almost equally.

The first president of America, the immortal Washington,[43] and his successor, Adams, entertained
friendly sentiments towards the British government and people; but early in 1801, Jefferson
succeeded the latter functionary as president, being elected by ten of the sixteen states then
constituting the Union. Jefferson was as inimical to England as he was favorable to France,
so was his secretary of state, and successor in the presidential chair, Madison. Although there
were many intervenient heart-burnings, it was not until the year 1807, when Jefferson was a
second time president, that the government of the United States assumed a decidedly hostile
attitude towards Great Britain. The Berlin decree, in which the French ruler ventured to declare
the British islands in a state of blockade, and to interdict all neutrals from trading with
the British ports in any commodities whatever, produced fresh retaliatory orders in council,
intended to support England's maritime rights and commerce, and to counteract Bonaparte's continental
system. The Berlin decree was a gross infringement of the law of nations and an outrage on
neutral rights, which especially called for resistance from the Americans, a neutral and trading
people; but they neither resisted nor seriously remonstrated against it. Other causes of dispute
arose from the determination of the British government to exclude the Americans from the blockaded
ports of France, and from that inexhaustible source of quarrel, the impressment of British
seamen from American vessels, especially as the difficulty of distinguishing British from American
seamen led occasionally to the impressment of American native born citizens. In June, 1807,
occurred the rencontre between his majesty's ship Leopard and the Chesapeake, which terminated
in the forcible extraction from the American frigate of four deserters from British ships of
war. The British government instantly disavowed this act, and recalled Vice-Admiral Berkeley,
who had given the order to search the Chesapeake. Jefferson, however, not only issued a proclamation
interdicting all British ships of war from entering the ports of the United States, but proposed
to congress to lay an embargo on American vessels, and to compel the trading ships of every
other nation to quit the American harbours. This proposition was warmly opposed by the federalists,
or Washingtonians, but it was nevertheless adopted by large majorities. Thus matters remained,
with subsequent slight modifications, from the month of December, 1807, to the declaration
of war in 1812, an interval which the commercial classes spent in a hopeless struggle against
bankruptcy and ruin. Attempts were not wanting on our part to arrive at a friendly accommodation,
but Jefferson demanded, as a preliminary, the revocation of the British orders in council,
and the entire exemption of American ships from any search, or from any question as to their
crews or cargoes. The British government pledged itself to repeal the orders in council as
soon as the French decrees should cease to exist. In 1809, Jefferson was succeeded as president
by Madison, who was compelled to yield somewhat to the popular outcry, and to repeal the universal
embargo substituting a non-intercourse act with England and France, both which nations, it
must be confessed, having by restraints on their commerce given the Americans just grounds
for dissatisfaction. On the 23d June, 1812, the prince regent in council revoked the orders
in council as far as regarded America, with a proviso that the revocation should be of no effect
unless the United States rescinded their non-intercourse act with England. It has been thought
that the revocation came too late, and that if it had been conceded a few weeks earlier, there
would have been no war with America; but Madison had been treating with Bonaparte's government
since the end of the year 1810, and the whole course of his conduct, with his evident desire
to illustrate his presidency by the conquest of Canada, proved his determination to brave a
war with England. He and his party nicely calculated on which side the greater profit was to
be obtained--whether the United States would gain more by going to war with England than by
hostility against Bonaparte and his edicts. "Every thing in the United States," says James
in his naval history, "was to be settled by a calculation of profit and loss. France had numerous
allies--England scarcely any. France had no contiguous territory; England had the Canadas ready
to be marched into at a moment's notice. France had no commerce; England had richly-laden merchantmen
traversing every sea. England, therefore, it was against whom the death-blows of America were
to be levelled." The struggles of England against Napoleon enabled the American government
to choose its own time. On the 14th April, congress laid an embargo on all ships and vessels
of the United States during the space of ninety days, with the view of lessening the number
that would be at the mercy of England when war was finally declared, and also of manning efficiently
their ships of war and privateers. By the end of May their fastest merchant vessels were converted
into cruisers, ready to start at a short notice. On the 18th of June, before the revocation
of the orders in council was known in the United States, a declaration of war was carried in
the house of representatives by seventy-nine to forty-nine votes, its supporters being chiefly
from the western and southern states to Pennsylvania inclusive, while the advocates for peace
were principally from the northern and eastern states.[44]

Sir George Prevost to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, January 22, 1812.

    It is the opinion of the adjutant-general that you will not
    wish to avail yourself of the conditional leave of absence I
    have received authority to grant you. I shall hear with
    particular satisfaction that Baynes is not mistaken, as I
    value your services highly.

    If it be the disposition of government to employ Major-General
    Sheaffe, the death of Major-General Balfour, at Fredericton,
    and the absence of Major-General Wilder, affords the
    opportunity of doing so without depriving me of your
    assistance at this critical period of affairs.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock, at York.

    QUEBEC, January 23, 1812[45]

    Sir George Prevost has commissioned me to inform you that by
    the October mail, which arrived two days ago, he received a
    letter from the adjutant-general, authorizing him to permit
    your return to England for the purpose of being employed on
    the continent, and sanctioning his appointing Major-General
    Sheaffe to succeed you on the staff in Canada. But Sir George,
    viewing the intention of the commander-in-chief as instigated
    solely by a desire to promote your wishes and advantage, and
    having learnt from me that from the tenor of your recent
    correspondence I was led to believe that you would prefer
    retaining your present charge, he has directed me to inform
    you of the circumstance by a private letter, which will enable
    you to canvass the subject with more freedom than an official
    communication would admit of. Your decision to remain longer
    in Canada will be highly acceptable to him. Sheaffe, I have no
    doubt, will be very speedily provided for in this country,
    without depriving us of your services. Sir George has asked
    permission to appoint him in General Wilder's place, and there
    will be two vacancies in Nova Scotia to fill up in the spring.

    Sir George has great pleasure in acceding to your request to
    be permitted to nominate one or two ensigns to the Glengary
    Fencibles, and, if you wish, young Shaw may be immediately
    provided for in that corps, and afterwards transferred to the
    line.

    The cold here has been severer for the last eight days than
    has ever been recollected by the oldest inhabitant; the
    thermometer falling as low as 33 degrees under cipher,
    accompanied with high wind, and never rising during all that
    time above 15 degrees below--it is at this moment 20 degrees
    under cipher: fortunate you, that are in a milder climate, for
    we are suffering dreadfully from excessive cold. By your
    description of your pastime in shooting wild pigeons, you
    certainly possess a very great advantage over us in these
    respects. We have been much plagued with opthalmia, which has
    been very general in the king's regiment, and the severe cold
    does not prevent the contagion.

      *      *      *      *      *

On the 4th February, 1812, Major-General Brock, accompanied by a numerous suite, opened the
session of the legislature at York with the following speech to the legislative council and
the house of assembly:

    "Honorable Gentlemen of the Legislative Council, and Gentlemen
    of the House of Assembly.

    "I should derive the utmost satisfaction, the first time of my
    addressing you, were it permitted me to direct your attention
    solely to such objects as tended to promote the peace and
    prosperity of this province.

    "The glorious contest in which the British empire is engaged,
    and the vast sacrifice which Great Britain nobly offers to
    secure the independence of other nations, might be expected to
    stifle every feeling of envy and jealousy, and at the same
    time to excite the interest and command the admiration of a
    free people; but, regardless of such generous impressions, the
    American government evinces a disposition calculated to impede
    and divide her efforts.

    "England is not only interdicted the harbours of the United
    States, while they afford a shelter to the cruisers of her
    inveterate enemy, but she is likewise required to resign
    those maritime rights which she has so long exercised and
    enjoyed. Insulting threats are offered, and hostile
    preparations actually commenced; and though not without hope
    that cool reflection and the dictates of justice may yet avert
    the calamities of war, I cannot, under every view of the
    relative situation of the province, be too urgent in
    recommending to your early attention the adoption of such
    measures as will best secure the internal peace of the
    country, and defeat every hostile aggression.

    "Principally composed of the sons of a loyal and brave band of
    veterans, the militia, I am confident, stand in need of
    nothing but the necessary legislative provisions, to direct
    their ardour in the acquirement of military instruction, to
    form a most efficient force.

    "The growing prosperity of these provinces, it is manifest,
    begins to awaken a spirit of envy and ambition. The
    acknowledged importance of this colony to the parent state
    will secure the continuance of her powerful protection. Her
    fostering care has been the first cause, under Providence, of
    the uninterrupted happiness you have so long enjoyed. Your
    industry has been liberally rewarded, and you have in
    consequence risen to opulence.

    "These interesting truths are not uttered to animate your
    patriotism, but to dispel any apprehension which you may have
    imbibed of the possibility of England forsaking you; for you
    must be sensible that if once bereft of her support, if once
    deprived of the advantages which her commerce and the supply
    of her most essential wants give you, this colony, from its
    geographical position, must inevitably sink into comparative
    poverty and insignificance.

    "But Heaven will look favorably on the manly exertions which
    the loyal and virtuous inhabitants of this happy land are
    prepared to make, to avert such a dire calamity.

    "Our gracious prince, who so gloriously upholds the dignity
    of the empire, already appreciates your merit, and it will be
    your first care to establish, by the course of your actions,
    the just claim of the country to the protection of his royal
    highness.

    "I cannot deny myself the satisfaction of announcing to you
    from this place, the munificent intention of his royal
    highness the prince regent, who has been graciously pleased to
    signify that a grant of £100 per annum will be proposed in the
    annual estimates, for every future missionary of the Gospel,
    sent from England, who may have faithfully discharged, for the
    term of ten years, the duties of his station in this province.

    "Gentlemen of the House of Assembly,

    "I have no doubt but that, with me, you are convinced of the
    necessity of a regular system of military instruction to the
    militia of this province;--on this salutary precaution, in the
    event of a war, our future safety will greatly depend, and I
    doubt not but that you will cheerfully lend your aid, to
    enable me to defray the expense of carrying into effect a
    measure so conducive to our security and defence.

    "I have ordered the public accounts to be laid before you, and
    have no doubt but that you will consider them with that
    attention which the nature of the subject may require.

    "Honorable Gentlemen of the Legislative Council and Gentlemen
    of the House of Assembly,

    "I have, without reserve, communicated to you what has
    occurred to me on the existing circumstances of this province.
    We wish and hope for peace, but it is nevertheless our duty to
    be prepared for war.

    "The task imposed on you, on the present occasion, is arduous;
    this task, however, I hope and trust, laying aside every
    consideration but that of the public good, you will perform
    with that firmness, discretion, and promptitude, which a
    regard to yourselves, your families, your country, and your
    king, call for at your hands.

    "As for myself, it shall be my utmost endeavour to co-operate
    with you in promoting such measures as may best contribute to
    the security and to the prosperity of this province."

The addresses of the provincial parliament in reply were highly satisfactory, and in answer
Major-General Brock observed:

    "The congratulations offered upon my appointment to the
    honorable station I hold in this province, and the confidence
    you so early repose in me, are, be assured, received with
    pride and heartfelt satisfaction.

    "Impressed with the assurance of your support, I feel a most
    perfect reliance that the exertions of this province will be
    found equal to meet every emergency of this important crisis."

      *      *      *      *      *

The conclusion of the following letter is descriptive of Major-General Brock's views and intentions
in the probable event of a war ensuing between Great Britain and the United States, and which
a few months afterwards he carried into effect with a success that must have exceeded his most
sanguine expectations.

Major-General Brock to Colonel Baynes, the Adj.-General.

    YORK, February 12, 1812.

    The assurance which I gave, in my speech at the opening of the
    legislature, of England co-operating in the defence of this
    province, has infused the utmost confidence; and I have reason
    at this moment to look for the acquiescence of the two houses
    to every measure I may think necessary to recommend for the
    peace and defence of the country. A spirit has manifested
    itself, little expected by those who conceived themselves the
    best qualified to judge of the disposition of the members of
    the house of assembly. The most powerful opponents to Governor
    Gore's administration take the lead on the present occasion.
    I, of course, do not think it expedient to damp the ardour
    displayed by these once doubtful characters. Some opposed Mr.
    Gore evidently from personal motives, but never forfeited the
    right of being numbered among the most loyal. Few, very few I
    believe, were actuated by base or unworthy considerations,
    however mistaken they may have been on various occasions.
    Their character will very soon be put to a severe test. The
    measures which I intend to propose are:

    1.--A militia supplementary act. Sir George will hear the
    outlines from Captain Gray.

    2.--The suspension of the habeas corpus. A copy of the act now
    enforced in the Lower Province.

    3.--An alien law.

    4.--The offer of a reward for the better apprehension of
    deserters.

    If I succeed in all this, I shall claim some praise; but I am
    not without my fears. I shall send you the militia act the
    moment it passes into a law. The more I consider the new
    provisions, the more I am satisfied (giving of course every
    proper allowance to the disposition of the people) they are
    peculiarly calculated to meet the local situation of the
    country. I have not a musket more than will suffice to arm the
    active part of the militia from Kingston westward. I have
    therefore to request that the number of arms may be sent,
    according to the enclosed requisition, to the places therein
    specified, on the communication between Glengary and Kingston.
    Every man capable of carrying a musket, along the whole of
    that line, ought to be prepared to act. The members of the
    assembly from that part of the country are particularly
    anxious that some works may be thrown up as a rallying point
    and place of security for stores, &c, in the vicinity of
    Johnstown. I shall request Colonel M'Donnell to examine, on
    his return, the ground which those gentlemen recommend as best
    suited for that purpose. Being immediately opposite
    Ozwegatchie, some precaution of the sort is indispensable,
    were it only to preserve a free communication between the two
    provinces. I have been made to expect the able assistance of
    Captain Marlow. Should he be still at Quebec, have the
    goodness to direct his attention, on his way up, to that
    quarter. He had better consult. Colonel Frazer and Captain
    Gilkinson, men of sound judgment and well acquainted with the
    country. The militia will have of course to be employed on the
    works.

    I must still press the necessity of an active, enterprizing,
    intelligent commander being stationed on that important line
    of communication. I wish Colonel Ellice[46] were here to
    undertake the arduous task, as it is wholly impossible that I
    can do so. Every assistance in my civil capacity I shall
    always be ready to give, and to that point my exertions must
    be necessarily limited. Niagara and Amherstburg will
    sufficiently occupy my attention. I deliver my sentiments
    freely, believing they will not be the less acceptable.

    I discussed every point connected with Amherstburg so
    completely with Captain Gray, that I do not find any thing
    very essential was omitted. Colonel M'Donnell will be able
    probably to give us further insight as to the actual state of
    affairs there. He was to make every enquiry and, as far as he
    was permitted, to judge himself of the relative strength of
    Detroit. Lieut.-Colonel---- preceded him by some days, but in
    such state of mind that forbids my placing any dependance in
    his exertions. When I first mentioned my intention of sending
    him to Amherstburg, he seemed diffident of his abilities, but
    pleased at the distinction. However, when he received his
    final instructions, his conduct in the presence of some
    officers was so very improper, and otherwise so childish, that
    I have since written to say, if he continued in the same
    disposition, he was at liberty to return to Niagara. I did not
    directly order him back, because at this time I consider an
    officer of rank necessary at Amherstburg, particularly during
    the absence of Messrs. Elliott and Baby, who are both here
    attending their parliamentary duties. You will imagine, after
    what I have stated, that it is the influence of his rank I
    alone covet, and not his personal aid. He has very fortunately
    given timely proof that he is in no way ambitious of military
    fame, therefore unfit for so important a command. Should it
    please his excellency to place the 41st and 49th at my
    disposal, I propose sending the former regiment to
    Amherstburg, as we cannot be too strong in that quarter. I
    have already explained myself on that point, and Captain Gray
    is furnished with further arguments in support of the measure.
    I have delayed to the last the mention of a project which I
    consider of the utmost consequence in the event of
    hostilities. I set out with declaring my full conviction, that
    unless Detroit and Michilimakinack be both in our possession
    immediately at the commencement of hostilities, not only the
    district of Amherstburg, but most probably the whole country
    as far as Kingston, must be evacuated. How necessary,
    therefore, to provide effectually the means of their capture.
    From Amherstburg it will be impossible to send a force to
    reduce Michilimakinack. Unless we occupy completely both
    banks, no vessel could pass the river St. Clair. What I
    therefore presume to suggest for his excellency's
    consideration, is the adoption of a project which Sir James
    Craig contemplated three years ago. The north-west company
    undertook to transport 50 or 60 men up the Ottawa, and I make
    no doubt would engage again to perform the same service. If
    therefore a war be likely to occur, at the time the canoes
    start from Montreal, I should recommend 40 or 50 of the 49th
    light company, and a small detachment of artillery, embarking
    at the same time for St. Joseph's. Should hostilities
    commence, the north-west would not object to join their
    strength in the reduction of Michilimakinack; and should peace
    succeed the present wrangling, the 49th detachment could be
    easily removed to Amherstburg.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, February 20, 1812.

    Captain M'Donnell has not clearly understood the purport of
    his mission to Upper Canada, and the general regrets that he
    should have proceeded the length he has done without having
    previously received your advice and instructions, to obtain
    which was the chief object of his visit to York. It is to be
    hoped, however, that sufficient patronage still remains open
    to meet your wishes, as the appointment of three of General
    Shaw's sons may be considered, from the sentiments of
    friendship and regard you have testified for that officer, to
    be almost equivalent to anticipating your own choice of them.
    And Sir George has directed me to inform you, that he readily
    accepts of your proposal to recruit two companies, to be added
    to the Glengary Fencibles; the nomination of the officers,
    viz. two captains, two lieutenants, and two ensigns, to rest
    entirely with you. The general has approved of the following
    quotas of men for the respective ranks: captains 30,
    lieutenants 15, and ensigns 20; the commissions to be issued
    on completing the quota, and such as complete their proportion
    quickest, or exceed in extra number of recruits, will have
    priority in regimental rank. I am not aware that Sir George
    purposes nominating a lieutenant-colonel; but I am sure that
    you will not feel less disposed to promote the formation of
    this corps, when I inform you that it is his intention to
    recommend me to the commander-in-chief for the appointment of
    colonel.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, February 22, 1812.

    Sir George is much pleased with the favorable account Captain
    Gray has given him of your proceedings. Your speech is highly
    approved of here, and we shall rejoice to find our house
    following so laudable an example as your commons have shewn
    them: but I am not sanguine; they have already commenced with
    great illiberality and violence to vent their spleen and
    resentment against Sir James (Craig) in votes of censure, and
    I fancy Sir George, with all his amiable, conciliatory
    mariners, will hardly succeed in keeping them within bounds.

Major-General Brock to Sir George Prevost.

    YORK, February--, 1812.

    I cannot permit Colonel M'Donnell to return home without
    giving your excellency a short account of our proceedings
    here.

    I had every reason to expect the almost unanimous support of
    the two houses of the legislature to every measure the
    government thought it necessary to recommend; but after a
    short trial, I found myself egregiously mistaken in my
    calculations.

    The many doubtful characters in the militia made me anxious to
    introduce the oath of abjuration into the bill: there were
    twenty members in the house, when this highly important
    measure was lost by the casting voice of the chairman.

    The great influence which the numerous settlers from the
    United States possess over the decisions of the lower house is
    truly alarming, and ought immediately, by every practical
    means, to be diminished. To give encouragement to real
    subjects to settle in this province, can alone remove the
    evil. The consideration of the fees should not stand in the
    way of such a politic arrangement; and should your excellency
    ultimately determine to promise some of the waste lands of the
    crown to such Scotch emigrants as enlist in the Glengary
    Fencibles, I have no hesitation in recommending, in the
    strongest manner, the raising of a Canadian corps upon similar
    offers, to be hereafter disbanded and distributed among their
    countrymen in the vicinity of Amherstburg. Colonel M'Donnell
    being in full possession of my sentiments on this subject, I
    beg leave to refer your excellency to him for further
    information.

    The bill for the suspension of the habeas corpus, I regret to
    say, was likewise lost by a very trifling majority. A strong
    sentiment now prevails that war is not likely to occur with
    the United States, which, I believe, tended to influence the
    votes of the members; I mean of such who, though honest, are
    by their ignorance easily betrayed into error.

    The low ebb of their finances appears to stagger the most
    desperate democrats in the States, and may possibly delay the
    commencement of direct hostilities; but should France and
    England continue the contest much longer, it appears to me
    absolutely impossible for the United States to avoid making
    their election; and the unfriendly disposition they have for
    some years past evinced towards England, leaves little doubt
    as to their choice. Your excellency, I am sensible, will
    excuse the freedom with which I deliver my sentiments.

    Every day hostilities are retarded, the greater the
    difficulties we shall have to encounter. The Americans are at
    this moment busily employed in raising six companies of
    Rangers, for the express purpose of overawing the Indians; and
    are besides collecting a regular force at Vincennes, probably
    with a view of reinforcing Detroit. Indeed, report states the
    arrival of a large force at Fort Wayne, intended for the
    former garrison. Their intrigues among the different tribes
    are carried on openly and with the utmost activity, and as no
    expense is spared, it may reasonably be supposed that they do
    not fail of success. Divisions are thus uninterruptedly sowed
    among our Indian friends, and the minds of many altogether
    estranged from our interests. Such must inevitably be the
    consequence of our present inert and neutral proceedings in
    regard to them. It ill becomes me to determine how long true
    policy requires that the restrictions now imposed upon the
    Indian department ought to continue; but this I will venture
    to assert, that each day the officers are restrained from
    interfering in the concerns of the Indians, each time they
    advise peace and withhold the accustomed supply of ammunition,
    their influence will diminish, till at length they lose it
    altogether.

    I find that ever since the departure of Priest Burke from
    Sandwich, the £50 per annum paid from the military chest to
    that gentleman have been withheld, on what account I have not
    been able to ascertain. The individual at present officiating
    is highly spoken of; and as several gentlemen of the Catholic
    persuasion have applied to me to intercede with your
    excellency to renew the allowance, I presume to submit the
    case to your indulgent consideration.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, March 5, 1812.

    I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
    of the 12th February, which I have communicated to Sir George,
    who is highly pleased to find you are satisfied to retain the
    important post you fill, and which you appear to govern under
    such very auspicious prospects. I sincerely trust you will be
    able to keep your subjects, and particularly your house of
    representatives, in the same good humour and sound principles
    which they have hitherto testified. You will perceive in the
    main sentiments of Sir George's opening address, a perfect
    accordance with your own: the answer of the assembly led to a
    very violent and personal debate, which lasted with closed
    doors for nearly eighteen hours. It would have been more to
    their credit had they left out the allusion which has drawn
    from Sir George a very appropriate retort. Your friend, James
    Cuthbert, was very warm and eloquent upon the occasion, and
    the demagogue party seemed sensible of the severity of his
    satire, when he compared the factious cabal to Æsop's fable of
    the ass kicking at the dying lion. Having vented their spleen,
    they will, I believe, prove a little more tractable: the
    militia bill has a prospect of being materially amended, and
    they will, I think, allow a proportion of about 2,000 men, or
    perhaps a few more, to be incorporated for two or three
    months, for three successive years; after the second year to
    be replaced by a new quota, and to be selected by ballot, and
    no substitutes permitted to serve in the place of a militiaman
    drawn by lot: this will be a great point gained.

Major-General Brock to Colonel Baynes.

    YORK, March 9, 1812.

    I received yesterday your letter dated the 20th February, and
    have to express my thanks to Sir George Prevost for his
    readiness in attending to my wishes.

    His excellency having been pleased to authorize the raising of
    two companies under my superintendence, giving me the
    nomination of the officers, I have to acquaint you, for his
    information, that Alexander Roxburgh, Esq., has been appointed
    by me to raise men for a company, and William M'Lean,
    gentleman, for an ensigncy. The former is a gentleman strongly
    recommended to me by Mr. Cartwright, of Kingston; and the
    latter, the son of an officer formerly in the 25th regiment,
    who, having settled in this country, has become one of the
    most influential characters in it. He is a member of the house
    of assembly for the district of Frontenac. I have not yet
    determined in respect to the remaining commissions, but will
    report the instant the individuals are nominated.

    Captain Dixon (royal engineers) proceeded four days ago to
    Amherstburg, with the gentlemen who were returning from their
    parliamentary duties.

    I request you will have the goodness to inform me of the
    probable time I may expect the honor of seeing Sir George
    Prevost, as I shall consider it a duty, which I shall execute
    with the utmost pleasure, of meeting his excellency at
    Kingston.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, March 19, 1812.

    I regret to find by your late letters to Sir George Prevost,
    that your expectations from your legislature have not been
    realised to the extent of your well grounded hopes. Sir
    George, who is well versed in the fickle and untractable
    disposition of public assemblies, feels more regret than
    disappointment. He has a very delicate card to play with his
    house of assembly here, who would fain keep up the farce of
    being highly charmed and delighted with his amiable
    disposition and affable manners: they have even gone the
    length of asserting, that these traits in his character have
    afforded them the most entire confidence that in his hands the
    alien act would not be abused. They have, however, taken the
    precaution of stripping it of its very essence and spirit,
    while last year they passed it without a division, when Sir
    James, (Craig,) on whose mild and affable disposition they did
    not pretend to rely, told them that it could only alarm such
    as were conscious of harbouring seditious designs. They have
    passed an amendment to the militia bill, which, though not
    affording all that was required, is still a material point
    gained. 2,000 men are to be ballotted to serve for three
    months in two successive summers; one of their strongest
    objections was the apprehension of the Canadians contracting
    military habits and enlisting into the service.[A]

    Sir George has directed me to inform you, that he will be
    ready to render you any assistance in his power to strengthen
    the Upper Province; but that unless reinforcements arrive from
    England, (in which case you may depend upon having a due
    proportion put under your immediate command,) his means of
    doing so are but very limited. His excellency is not sanguine
    in his expectation of receiving reinforcements this summer; on
    the contrary, the appearance of hostilities beginning to abate
    at Washington, and the pledge held out in the prince regent's
    speech of supporting with energy the contest in Spain and
    Portugal, are likely to prevent troops being sent to this
    quarter, unless a more urgent necessity of doing so should
    appear. I will not comment on American politics, in which we
    all appear to agree that the deep-rooted jealousy and hatred
    of that people must in the end lead to hostilities, and that
    it behoves us not to lose sight of an event which, if not
    prepared to meet, we shall find more difficult to
    repel;--under this impression, Sir George is disposed to
    promote the several plans you have recommended to him,
    relating to the general line of conduct you would wish to
    adopt in the defence of the important province committed to
    your charge. If no additional forces be sent out, he will
    send up the strong detachment of the 41st, composed of
    uncommonly fine young men, and in very good order: the general
    has it also in view to send you a strong detachment of the
    Newfoundland regiment, selecting their seamen and marine
    artificers, who will be most useful in the proposed works to
    be carried on at York; and here I am apprehensive that the
    means of augmenting your strength must be bounded, unless the
    Glengary Levy can be rapidly formed, and Sir George is
    sanguine in his expectations of its being speedily placed upon
    a respectable footing: in that case, it could occupy Kingston
    and that line of communication between the provinces, which
    you deem so essential to be guarded. This corps will have the
    very great advantage of starting with a better selected body
    of officers than has fallen to the lot of any Fencible
    regiment in Canada. I hope you will feel inclined to bring
    forward Shaw as one of your captains, as without your
    countenance I fear he will find it an arduous task to provide
    for himself and his brother. The uniform of the corps is to be
    green, like that of the 95th rifles.

    Sir George expressed himself very sensible of the policy of
    the line of conduct you would wish to pursue respecting the
    Indians; but as other considerations of the greatest political
    delicacy are so minutely interwoven with them, and as the
    American government are already inclined to view every
    transaction with those people with a jealous and suspicious
    eye, he would recommend the utmost caution and forbearance,
    lest a different line of conduct might tend to increase the
    irritation between the two governments, which it is evidently
    the wish of Great Britain to allay.

    Our weather has been, and still continues for the season,
    severer than ever was recollected by the oldest stagers, and
    has rather put our Halifax friends out of conceit with the
    fine climate of Canada, particularly as Lady Prevost's health
    is delicate, and she is very sensible of cold. Mrs. Cator and
    Mrs. Baynes beg to be most kindly remembered to you. General
    Bowes accompanied Kempt to Portugal in the end of December.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, April 2, 1812.

    Many thanks for the very kind and friendly note which
    accompanied your letter of the 9th ultimo, and I beg you to
    rest assured, that I am very sensible of your friendly
    disposition towards me, and feel particularly grateful and
    flattered by the kind manner in which you have the goodness to
    express it.

    The American papers, under the head of English news, as late
    as the 20th January, give a circumstantial account of the
    death of Sir James Craig, on Sunday, the 12th, at his house in
    Charlotte Street. There are too many circumstances
    corroborating an event which was so greatly to be apprehended,
    to leave a shadow of doubt of the severe loss that all, who
    were favored with his friendship, have sustained. To me, from
    my earliest youth, he has been the best and kindest friend, a
    steady and powerful patron; for few sons ever experienced more
    truly paternal care and affectionate regard from the best of
    fathers, than I have received at the hands of that best of
    men. The grief that I cannot suppress is a selfish tribute to
    my own irreparable loss: his release from a state of cruel,
    lingering suffering, which, as I had so long witnessed, he
    bore with a degree of fortitude and patient resignation
    unparalleled, could have been no cause of regret to him, and
    therefore ought not to be so to those who most sincerely loved
    him; but I have so long been accustomed to cherish the
    grateful and affectionate sentiments of a highly favored son
    to the best of parents, that however I might have been
    prepared for this inevitable shock, I still feel that there
    are affections so rooted in our hearts, that this world's
    changes can never efface the impression. His memory will long
    be remembered with admiration by all who knew his merit. As a
    soldier he had few equals, and no knight had a fairer claim to
    the proud title of sans peur et sans reproche; while the
    widow, the orphan, and every distressed object that claimed
    his aid, will testify the generous heart that once animated
    that good and honorable man.

    The ladies of this house always beg to be remembered to you,
    with the sincerest good wishes for your health and happiness.
    Mrs. Baynes has been plotting with Mrs. Colonel Robertson to
    elope and pay you a visit, pressing Heriot[47] into their
    service as their knight errant.

Major-General Brock to Lieut.-Colonel Nichol, Commanding 2d Regiment Norfolk Militia.

    YORK, April 8, 1812.

    The power which is vested in the person administering the
    government, by the amended act of the militia, passed the last
    session of the provincial parliament, of forming two flank
    companies, to be taken indiscriminately from the battalions,
    being limited to the end of the ensuing session, would almost
    deter me from incurring public expense upon a system which
    will cease to operate before its utility and efficacy can well
    be ascertained.

    But being anxious at this important crisis to organize an
    armed force with a view of meeting future exigencies, and to
    demonstrate by practical experience the degree of facility
    with which the militia may be trained for service, I have to
    request you to adopt immediate measures for forming and
    completing, from among such men as voluntarily offer to serve,
    two companies, not to exceed one captain, two subalterns, two
    sergeants, one drummer, and thirty-five rank and file each, in
    the regiment under your command.

    You will have the goodness to recommend two captains, whom
    you conceive the best qualified to undertake this important
    duty; the nominating of the subalterns is left to your
    discretion.

    Such other regiments as are conveniently situated to receive
    military instruction, shall have an opportunity afforded them
    of shewing their ardour in the public service, which cannot
    fail of creating a laudable emulation among the different
    corps.

    Assisted by your zeal, prudence, and intelligence, I entertain
    the pleasing hope of meeting with very considerable success,
    and of being able to establish the sound policy of rendering
    permanent to the end of the present war, a mode of military
    instruction little burdensome to individuals, and every way
    calculated to secure a powerful internal defence against
    hostile aggression.

    Printed rules and regulations, for your future guidance, are
    herewith forwarded: the most simple, and at the same time the
    most useful, movements have been selected for the practice of
    the militia.

    Experience has shewn the absolute necessity of adopting every
    possible precaution to preserve in a proper state the arms
    issued to the militia, and of guarding against the heavy
    defalcations which have heretofore occurred.

    You will make applications to the officers commanding at Fort
    Erie for the number of arms and accoutrements wanting to
    complete the men actually engaged to serve in the flank
    companies; and that officer will be instructed to comply with
    your requisition, upon your transmitting to him duplicate
    receipts, one of which is to be forwarded to head quarters,
    that you may become responsible for the articles delivered to
    your order: at the same time, the most liberal construction
    will be given to any representation accounting for such
    contingencies as are incidental to the service.

[The remaining details in this letter are omitted here.]

Sir James Saumarez, Bart.[48] to Major-General Brock.

    SPITHEAD, April 14, 1812.

    Lieutenant Le Couteur[49] being ordered to join his regiment
    in Canada, permit me to recommend him to your kind notice: he
    is a promising young officer, and being connected with our
    family, makes me interested for his welfare. I congratulate
    you upon your present distinguished appointment. A few weeks
    previous to my leaving town, I was informed by Lord Liverpool
    that Governor Gore had leave of absence, but that if he did
    not return to his command, he would be happy in taking your
    services into consideration. From what his lordship was
    pleased to add, I have no doubt of your succeeding to the
    government, in the event of Governor Gore obtaining any other
    situation.

    I am on the point of returning to the Baltic, where there
    appears a strong disposition on the part of Russia and some
    of the other powers to resist the aggressions of Bonaparte,--I
    trust with well-founded hopes of ultimate success.

Major-General Le Couteur to Major-General Brock.

    LISBON, April 16, 1812.

    I am here in consequence of a mistake in orders sent to me by
    Lord Palmerston, to join the army in Portugal, when his
    lordship meant Jamaica. On my arrival at Lisbon I found out
    the mistake, and I hope in a few days to sail for my real
    destination.

    My son, whom you perhaps will remember an infant when you were
    in Jersey, will have the pleasure to deliver you this letter,
    if the 104th regiment be in your neighbourhood. He is only
    seventeen years old; very young to be sent loose on the wide
    world. Allow me to recommend him to your kindness and friendly
    protection; and should he be quartered at some distance from
    you, permit me to request you will be so good as to introduce
    him to some steady officer, or to such of your friends as
    might be in his neighbourhood. I shall hope to have him soon
    as my aide-de-camp.

Sir John Dumaresq, Kt., Lieut.-Bailiff of Jersey, to Major-General Brock.

    JERSEY, April 20, 1812.

    I hope you will pardon the liberty I take of giving a letter
    of introduction to you to my grandson, Lieut. John Le Couteur,
    of the 104th, son of Major-General Le Couteur, who is on his
    departure for Quebec with recruits. His father, who is now in
    Portugal, had some hopes his son might have been allowed to be
    on his staff; but it seems that could not take place until he
    has served a certain time in the regiment. He is a young man
    (not yet eighteen) of an excellent disposition, educated at
    Marlow, where he has given the most pleasing testimonies of
    early professional abilities and attention to his duty. I
    shall esteem, it a great favor, as well as his father, for any
    mark of attention or notice which you may have it in your
    power to shew him whilst under your command.

Major-General Brock to Sir George Prevost.

    YORK, April 22, 1812.

    I had the honor yesterday to receive your excellency's letter,
    dated the 21st ultimo, and I entreat you to believe that no
    act within my control shall afford the government of the
    United States a legitimate pretext to add to a clamour which
    has been so artfully raised against England.

    We have received the account of the renewal of the embargo,
    and that the most rigorous measures have already been adopted
    to prevent the least infringement of it upon the Niagara
    river. Armed men, in coloured clothes, are continually
    patroling along the shore. These troops are stated to have
    recently arrived, but I have not been able to ascertain
    whether they belong to the new levy or to the militia. They
    are reported to amount to about 300. Colonel Proctor has
    doubtless written fully on the subject, but unfortunately the
    letters, by some negligence, were left at Niagara. The
    accounts which have reached me are not therefore so
    satisfactory as could be wished. An idle boy is stated to have
    wantonly fired with ball at the guard opposite Queenstown, and
    it appears that the Americans were guilty of a similar outrage
    by firing during the night into a room in which a woman was
    sitting. Luckily no mischief followed. Being detained here
    upon civil business, I have sent Captain Glegg over to see how
    matters stand, and to arrange with both civil and military the
    best means of preventing a recurrence of a practice which may
    easily lead to serious consequences. I hope to be at Niagara
    myself the day after to-morrow.

    I beg leave to assure your excellency, that I receive with no
    small degree of pride the praise bestowed on my endeavours to
    improve the militia system of this province; and as the bill
    underwent some alterations after the departure of Colonel
    M'Donnell, particularly in limiting its operation to the end
    of the ensuing session, I shall have the honor to forward for
    your excellency's information the law as now enforced. I have,
    by partial and gentle means, already commenced to give it
    operation, and I make not the least doubt that a sufficient
    number will be found ready to volunteer to complete the flank
    companies; and I here beg leave to call your excellency's
    attention to the clause which authorizes the training of the
    flank companies six times in each month; but as no provision
    is made for remunerating the men, I presume to submit for your
    excellency's indulgent consideration, that the commissaries be
    instructed to issue rations for the number actually present at
    exercise. These companies I expect will be composed of the
    best description of inhabitants, who in most cases will have
    to go a great distance to attend parade; and, unless this
    liberal provision be allowed, will be liable to heavy expense,
    or be subject to considerable privations. According to my
    present arrangements, the number embodied will not exceed 700,
    and when the companies are completed throughout the province,
    they must be calculated at 1,800; and, as during harvest and
    the winter months few or no parades will take place, the total
    expense attending the measure can be of no material
    consequence in a pecuniary point of view, and may in a
    political light be productive, at this juncture, of
    considerable benefit.

    I have likewise to request that such portion of clothing as
    your excellency can conveniently spare from the king's stores,
    may be forwarded, to enable me to clothe such companies as are
    the most likely to be called upon duty.

    I am anxious to hear the real object of the embargo; should it
    be directed solely against England, the probability is that it
    leads to a war; but should France be included in its
    operation, nothing of the kind need be dreaded.

    In the expectation of having the honor of seeing your
    excellency shortly at York, I limit, for the present, the
    works of the military artificers at this place, to preparing a
    temporary magazine for the reception of the spare powder at
    Fort George and Kingston, and the excavation of the ditch for
    the proposed fortifications of the spot on which the
    government house stands.

    I transmit, for your excellency's perusal, a detailed account
    of the transactions which led to the unjustifiable censure
    passed by the house of assembly upon Chief Justice Scott. It
    is written by Mr. Nichol himself; and the warmth with which he
    has expressed his indignation at the wanton exercise of a
    power yet undefined, as far as regards this province, is not
    therefore surprising. I am convinced that whenever the
    business is brought legally before the judges, they will
    refuse to sanction the enormous power, under the name of
    privilege, which the house arrogates to itself. The executive
    will in that case be placed in a very awkward predicament: Mr.
    Nichol having commenced civil actions against the speaker and
    sergeant at arms for false imprisonment, will, should he
    succeed in obtaining damages, bring the question with double
    force on the tapis. The violence and ignorance which, in all
    probability, will mark the proceedings of the house, cannot
    fail of producing a dissolution. I apply forcibly to ministers
    for instructions, but should they be contrary to the opinion
    which the judges of the court of king's bench have formed of
    the law, I am led to believe they will not influence the
    members; therefore, one of two alternatives must be resorted
    to, either the appointment of more docile judges, or the
    decision of the question by a British act of parliament. I
    trust, for the tranquillity and prosperity of the province,
    that the latter mode may be preferred. I have thus freely, and
    perhaps with rather too much haste to be sufficiently
    explicit, stated the difficulties which in all likelihood I
    shall have to encounter at the next meeting of the
    legislature.

    Should the effect of the embargo appear to be directed solely
    at Great Britain, I shall avail myself of the confidence
    placed in me, and order the purchase of horses, to enable the
    car brigade to act in case of necessity. This, being a service
    which requires infinite trouble and practice to bring to any
    degree of perfection, cannot be too soon attended to.

Sir George Prevost to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, April 30, 1812.

    I have just heard from Mr. Foster that the secretary at war,
    at Washington, has transmitted orders to Governor Tompkins, of
    New York, to send 500 of the state militia to Niagara, 500 to
    the mouth of the Black River, opposite to Kingston, and 600 to
    Champlain, in consequence of the hostile appearances in
    Canada. Mr. Foster is of opinion the government of the United
    States calculates that something will happen on the part of
    these men to produce a quarrel with the British troops, which
    may lead to retaliation on both sides, and occasion
    hostilities to commence, as in this way alone, it seems
    thought, an unjust war can be forced on the American people,
    who are represented as really averse to it. We must,
    therefore, use every effort in our power to prevent any
    collision from taking place between our forces and the
    American.

    I have also received information that the American garrison at
    Fort Chicago, not exceeding 60 men, has been ordered to
    Detroit, in consequence of apprehensions from the Indians.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, May 14, 1812.

    I have great satisfaction in telling you that I have reported
    the Glengary light infantry more than complete to the
    establishment of 400 rank and file, and have received Sir
    George Prevost's commands to recruit for a higher
    establishment; indeed, the quotas the officers have engaged to
    fulfil will nearly amount to double that number; and from the
    very great success that has attended our exertions, I have no
    doubt of succeeding by the end of this year. Two officers have
    divided Nova Scotia and New Brunswick for their hunting
    ground, and are permitted to recruit Acadians; and Lieutenant
    Ronald M'Donnell, of the Canadians, proceeds in a few days to
    Pictou and the highland settlements on the coast and gulf: he
    is an officer that appears to be eminently qualified for that
    service, and he is sanguine that the proffer of lands in the
    Scotch settlements of Upper Canada will induce great numbers
    to enter. I am assured from various channels that the men I
    have got are generally young, rather too much so, and of a
    good description, there being very few Yankees amongst them.

    I have long letters from my friends at home, giving me a
    detailed account of the death of my excellent and best of
    friends: the duke of York sat by his bedside for half an hour
    the day before he died, and, Somerville says, was extremely
    affected. Sir James, (Craig,) on the contrary, rallied from
    the pleasure he experienced from this condescending kindness.
    Sir James had a codicil written fair for his signature, the
    chief object of which was to add a legacy for a female cousin
    whom he did not know to be in existence, and to direct the
    sale of the priory and freehold, which cost 12,000 guineas, to
    enable the payment of the legacies: this instrument, not
    having been executed, will lead to what he most deprecated and
    wished to avoid, a lawsuit. The heirs at law will possess the
    freehold; and Wilkie, who, besides £6,000, is left the two
    houses in London, furniture, &c, as residuary legatee, will be
    stripped of the whole that is not given by special bequest, to
    make up the legacies: he will however, I believe, have at
    least £10,000 left--very ample payment for his services.

    Sir George has announced his intention of recommending
    Battersby to be lieutenant-colonel of the Glengary corps, and
    ordered him to take the command of the recruits assembled at
    Three Rivers. Your major of brigade[50] will be recommended to
    succeed to his majority in the king's regiment.

Major-Gencral Brock to Sir George Prevost.

    YORK, May 16, 1812.

    I have this day been honored with your excellency's
    confidential communication, dated the 30th ultimo.

    I have long since thought that nothing but the public voice
    restrained the United States government from commencing direct
    hostilities; and it is but reasonable to expect that they will
    seek every opportunity to influence the minds of the people
    against England, in order to bring them the more readily into
    their measures. It will be my study to guard against every
    event that can give them any just cause of complaint; but the
    proximity of the two countries will in all probability produce
    collisions which, however accidentally brought about, will be
    represented as so many acts of aggression. It would not
    surprise me if their first attempt to excite irritation were
    the seizing of the islands in the channel, to which both
    countries lay claim: such was represented to Sir James Craig
    on a former occasion to be their intention.

    In addition to the force specified by your excellency, I
    understand that six companies of the Ohio militia are intended
    for Detroit. Our interests with the Indians will materially
    suffer in consequence of these extensive preparations being
    allowed to proceed with impunity. I have always considered
    that the reduction of Detroit would be a signal for a cordial
    co-operation on the part of the Indians; and if we be not in
    sufficient force to effect this object, no reliance ought to
    be placed in them.

    About forty regulars were last week added to the garrison of
    Niagara, and by all accounts barracks are to be immediately
    constructed at Black Rock, almost opposite Fort Erie, for a
    large force.

    I returned three days ago from an excursion to Fort Erie--the
    Grand River, where the Indians of the Six Nations are
    settled--and back by the head of the lake. Every gentleman,
    with whom I had an opportunity of conversing, assured me that
    an exceedingly good disposition prevailed among the people.
    The flank companies, in the districts in which they have been
    established, were instantly completed with volunteers, and
    indeed an almost unanimous disposition to serve is daily
    manifested. I shall proceed to extend this system now I have
    ascertained that the people are so well disposed--but my means
    are very limited.

    I propose detaching 100 rank and file of the 41st regiment to
    Amherstburg, almost immediately.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, May 21, 1812.

    Sir George has allowed me to make the following extracts from
    a dispatch of Mr. Foster's, dated the 28th April, which I do
    in the minister's own words: "The American government affect
    now to have taken every step incumbent on the executive as
    preparatory to war, and leave the ultimate decision to
    congress, as vested by the constitution in that body, which is
    fluctuating as the sea: there is a great party in the house of
    representatives for war, composed principally of the western
    and southern states--members who have little to lose, and may
    gain, while the northern and eastern states are vehement
    against it. The embargo seems to have been resolved upon,
    because at the moment they did not know what else to do. The
    cabinet wished only sixty days--the senate made it ninety. Our
    government leaves no room to expect a repeal of the order in
    council, yet they wait for the return of the Hornet. Something
    decisive must then be known; perhaps when they become
    completely convinced of Bonaparte's playing upon them, it will
    end in declaring against France. The question of adjournment
    was lost, notwithstanding there was an absolute majority known
    a few minutes before in its favor. The ruling party are split
    into many; the old revolutionists, jealous of younger men
    taking a lead. The army cannot, I conceive, soon be filled
    up--they get few recruits."

    You will have heard, long ere you receive this, that the 49th
    regiment is ordered home; the 41st are by the same authority
    to return to Europe, but Sir George will not, under existing
    circumstances, attempt to relieve the posts in Upper Canada,
    so that there will be no immediate change in your quarter. Sir
    George regrets that he has not field officers of the
    description you require to command at Kingston and
    Amherstburg. The only prospect of relief in that respect which
    he has in view, is from the arrival of the absent inspecting
    field officers.

    The arrangement you propose respecting the unfortunate
    delinquents of the 41st regiment, will perfectly meet the
    approbation of Sir George, who approved of your not forwarding
    the resignation of the younger members, or indeed of any, if
    they are worthy of consideration.

    Kempt has brought his name into notice in the assault of La
    Picurina, an outwork at Badajoz, where he commanded, being on
    duty in the trenches. The Glengary levy goes on swimmingly.

Sir George Prevost to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, May 27, 1812.

    The circumstance which happened to the guard stationed
    opposite to Queenstown, arrived here much exaggerated. Your
    account of it silenced the idle reports in circulation.

    I agree with you in deploring the limitation, until the end of
    the ensuing session, in the operation of the militia act for
    Upper Canada; but as in the event of hostilities it might not
    be possible to convene the legislature, then the bill would in
    all probability continue in force during the war, provided you
    were not induced to make an exertion for a more perfect law.

    Colonel Baynes having informed me he had an opportunity of
    communicating with you more expeditiously than by post, I
    desired him to make you acquainted with the peaceful
    intelligence I had just received from Mr. Foster; but although
    it comes with a good deal of reservation, still it warrants me
    in recommending the most rigid economy in carrying on the
    king's service, and in avoiding all expense that has not
    become absolutely necessary, as it is with the utmost
    difficulty money can be raised for the ordinary service.

    I am apprehensive that I cannot look forward to the pleasure
    of seeing you before the end of August, as my presence in the
    province is become indispensably necessary during the first
    operation of the new militia law.

    Many thanks for the particulars of the transaction which led
    to the censure passed by the house of assembly on Chief
    Justice Scott.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 43: He died at Mount Vernon, on the 14th December, 1799, in the sixty-eighth year
of his age, leaving a widow but no issue.]

[Footnote 44: Pictorial History of England.]

[Footnote 45: This and a few of the subsequent letters from Colonel Baynes are partly in cipher
of figures, but of course we have not the key.]

[Footnote 46: The present Lieut.-General Ellice, colonel of the 24th regiment of foot. He is
the officer mentioned at page 97, but was deputy adjutant-general in Canada, and not inspecting
field officer of militia as we supposed.]

[Footnote 47: The late Major-General Heriot, C.B., then Captain Heriot, of the 49th.]

[Footnote 48: The late Admiral Lord de Saumarez, G.C.B., &c.]

[Footnote 49: The present Colonel Le Couteur, Militia Aide-de-Camp to the Queen, in Jersey.
In the United Service Journal for October, 1831, Colonel Le Couteur has described the winter
march of the 104th regiment, early in 1813, from New Brunswick to Canada.]

[Footnote 50: The present Major-General Thomas Evans, C.B., then a captain of the 8th foot.]

CHAPTER VII.

It will be assisting the reader, ere we proceed to detail the operations at the commencement
of hostilities, to give a brief description, not only of the lakes and straits which constitute
the water boundaries of Upper Canada, and of the towns and military posts distributed along
them, as existing in the year 1812, but also of the territory of Michigan, which was surrendered,
with Detroit, to Major-General Brock. The distances are given in British statute miles.

The most remote piece of water on this frontier worthy of notice is Lake Superior, a body of
fresh water unequalled by any upon the face of the globe. Lake Superior is of a triangular
form; in length 381, in breadth 161, and in circumference about 1,150 miles. Among its islands
is one nearly two-thirds as large as Jamaica. Out of Lake Superior a very rapid current flows,
over immense masses of rock, along a channel of 27 miles in length, called St. Mary's River,
into Lake Huron, at the head of which is the British island of St. Joseph, containing a small
garrison. This isolated post is distant about 350 miles by water from Amherstburg, which contained
the nearest British garrison.

Lake Huron is in length, from west to east, 218 miles; in breadth, 180; and in circumference,
through its numerous curvatures, 812 miles. Except the island of St. Joseph, and one or two
trading establishments belonging to the north-west company, the shores of this lake were in
a state of nature, or inhabited only by Indians. When the Americans were allowed to obtain
the dominion of Lake Erie, which they did in 1813, it was determined at the close of the following
year to create a naval force on Lake Huron in the ensuing season, (1815,) as possessing much
greater security for the construction of vessels than Lake Erie, where the enemy could at any
time destroy them, in the same manner as their vessels ought to have been previously destroyed
by the British. Lake Michigan, which belongs wholly to the United States, is connected with
Lake Huron at its western angle by a short and wide strait, in the centre of which is the island
of Michilimakinack, belonging to the United States. This island is about 9 miles in circumference,
and, like St. Joseph, its neighbour, it possessed a small fort and garrison. Lake Huron flows
through the river St. Clair, which is in length about 60 miles, into Lake St. Clair, a small
circular lake 30 miles in diameter. The beautiful river Thames, in Upper Canada, opens into
Lake St. Clair, and it was along the banks of this river that Major-General Proctor retreated
in 1813. From Lake St. Clair, the stream, through the Detroit, navigable for vessels not drawing
more than fourteen feet water, pursues a course of nearly 40 miles into Lake Erie.

Upon the western side of the Detroit is situate the American town of that name. About 5 miles
below Detroit, upon the opposite side of the strait, is the British village of Sandwich, then
containing scarcely fifty houses; and 18 miles lower, and within four of the termination of
the strait, is the British village of Amherstburg, then containing about one hundred houses,
and a fort where a small garrison was maintained, and where the principal vessels for the service
of Lake Erie were constructed. The American village of Brownstown stands nearly opposite to
Amherstburg, which is distant from Quebec by the nearest route by water 815 miles, from Fort
Erie about 250 miles, and from York 315 miles.

Lake Erie, from Miamis Bay to the entrance of the straits of Niagara, is in length 257 miles,
in breadth 64 miles, and in circumference 658 miles. The greatest depth of water is between
forty and forty-five fathoms, but a very rocky bottom renders the anchorage unsafe in blowing
weather. Except Amherstburg, the British have no harbour or naval depôt upon Lake Erie, while
the Americans have two or three excellent ones. Presqu'île harbour is situate on the southern
side of the lake, not far from the entrance to the Niagara. It is a safe station, but has a
seven feet bar at its entrance, as indeed have all the other harbours on this lake. The town,
named Erie, is situate on the south side of the harbour, and contains a dock yard, in which
the Americans built their Lake Erie fleet. To the eastward of the town stands a strong battery,
and on the point of the Peninsula forming the harbour, a block house, for the protection of
this naval depôt. The rivers Raisin, Sandusky, and Miami, the scenes of important operations
during the war, discharge themselves into Lake Erie.

On the north-western side of the entrance to the Niagara river stands, at a distance of 565
miles from Quebec, the British fort Erie, at best a very inconsiderable work. Near to the same
outlet from Lake Erie is Buffalo Creek, on the border of which is built the American village
of Buffalo; and about 2 miles beyond it, Black Rock, where there is a battery, and a ferry,
about 800 yards across, to Bertie, in Upper Canada. The Niagara proceeds at a quick rate past
several small and one large island, called Grande Isle, 10 miles long; about 2 miles below
which, on the American side, and distant 2 miles from the Falls, is the site of Fort Schlosser.
At about the same distance from the Falls, on the opposite side, standing on the northern bank
of the river Chippewa, is the British village of the same name, distant from Fort Erie 17 miles.
Chippewa consisted chiefly of store houses; and near it was a small stockaded work, called
Fort Chippewa. At the distance of 23 miles from the entrance to the Niagara, is Goat Island,
about half a mile long, and which extends to the precipice that gives rise to the celebrated
Falls. The larger body of water flows between Upper Canada and Goat Island, at the upper end
of which island the broken water, or rapids, commence. Here the stream passes on both sides
of the island, over a bed of rocks and precipices, with astonishing rapidity; till, having
descended more than fifty feet in the distance of half a mile, it falls, on the British side
157, and on the New York side 162, feet perpendicularly.

From the cataract, the river is a continued rapid, half a mile in width, for about 7 miles.
At this point stand, opposite to each other, the villages of Queenstown and Lewistown. The
latter, situate upon the American side, contained, till destroyed as a retaliatory measure,
between forty and fifty houses. At about six miles and a half from Queenstown, near to the
river side, stands Fort George, then constructed of earthen ramparts and palisades of cedar,
and mounting no heavier metal than 9-pounders. About half a mile below Fort George, and close
to the borders of Lake Ontario, stood the beautiful and flourishing village of Newark, which
was burnt by the Americans.

Directly opposite to Newark, upon a neck of land projecting partly across the mouth of the
river, which is here 875 yards in width, stands the American fort of Niagara, the scene of
so many conflicts. It was built by the French in 1751; taken by us in 1759;[51] and, along
with several other frontier posts, ceded to the United States in 1794; and, though since taken,
has again been ceded to the same power. Fort Niagara, unlike any of the Canadian forts along
that frontier, is a regular fortification, built of stone, on the land side, with breast works,
and every necessary appendage. It mounts between twenty and thirty heavy pieces of ordnance,
and contains a furnace for heating shot.

The strait of Niagara is about 36 miles in length; and its shores, on both sides, were, more
or less, the scenes of active warfare during the whole period of hostilities. Lake Ontario,
to which the strait leads, is in length, from west to east, 171, in breadth 50, and in circumference
467 miles. The depth of water varies much, it being in some places three or four, in others
fifty fathoms: towards the centre three hundred fathoms of line have, it is said, not found
the bottom. York harbour lies on the north side of Lake Ontario; is nearly circular, of about
a mile and a half in diameter, and formed by a narrow peninsula extending to Gibraltar Point,
upon which a blockhouse has been erected. The town of York, (now called Toronto,) the infant
capital of Upper Canada, is in lat. 43° 35' north, and long. 78° 30' west, and is distant from
Fort George by water about 30 miles. The public buildings consisted of a government house,
the house of assembly, a church, court-house, and a gaol, with numerous stores belonging to
government. Kingston harbour is situate at the eastern extremity of Lake Ontario. It contains
good anchorage in three fathoms water, and was defended by a small battery of 9-pounders on
Mississaga Point, and another, of the same metal chiefly, on Point Frederick. The town, which
was the largest and most populous in the Upper Province, contained about 370 houses; including
several buildings and stores belonging to government. Its distance from York is 145, from Montreal,
in an opposite direction, 198, and from Quebec 378 miles. Opposite to, and distant about half
a mile from, the town, is a long low peninsula, forming the west side of Navy Bay, the principal
naval depôt of the British on this lake, and where the ships of war were constructed.

Of the American military posts on Lake Ontario, the principal one is Sackett's harbour, distant
from Kingston, by the ship channel, 35 miles. The harbour is small but well sheltered. From
the north-west runs out a low point of land, upon which was the dock yard with large store
houses, and all the buildings requisite for such an establishment. Upon this point there was
a strong work called Fort Tompkins, having within it a blockhouse two stories high: on the
land side it was covered by a strong picketing, in which there were embrasures; at the bottom
of the harbour was the village, containing about seventy houses; and, to the southward of it,
a large barrack, capable of containing 2,000 men, and generally occupied by the marines belonging
to the fleet. Towards the middle of 1814, there were three additional works, Fort Virginia,
Fort Chauncey, and Fort Kentucky, as well as several new blockhouses; and the guns then mounted
upon the different forts exceeded sixty.[52]

The greatest length of the Michigan territory, from south-east to north-west, is 500 miles,
and the number of square miles both of land and water is estimated at 150,000. The country
was then chiefly in the possession of the Indians, and the white population amounted by the
previous census to about 5,000. It includes two peninsulas of unequal size, in addition to
which are numerous islands, constituent parts of the territory. The most important of these
is Michilimakinack, already described. This island, while in the former possession of the British,
was the general rendezvous of the North-West traders and the Indians they supplied. Here the
outfits were furnished for the countries of Lake Michigan and the Mississippi, Lake Superior
and the North-West; and here the returns of furs were collected and embarked for Montreal.
Detroit, the chief town of the territory, is situated on the right bank of the strait, 10 miles
below Lake St. Clair and 28 miles above Lake Erie. It then contained above two hundred houses,
many of brick, and upwards of 1,200 inhabitants. In the rear of the fort was an extensive common,
skirted by boundless and almost impenetrable forests. We learn from Morse's American Geography,
on the acknowledged authority of Governor Hull, that Fort Detroit, in 1810, was a regular work
of an oblong figure, "covering about an acre of ground. The parapets were about twenty feet
in height, built of earth and sods, with four bastions, the whole surrounded with pallisadoes,
a deep ditch, and glacis. It stood immediately back of the town, and had strength to withstand
a regular siege, but did not command the river." And as the American government had been for
some time secretly preparing for war, it may be safely inferred, that in the meanwhile this
fort had been rather strengthened than permitted to fall to decay; and that it was at least
as tenable in 1812 as when Governor Hull, two years before, gave the preceding description
of its defences. The town of Detroit is in lat. 42° 15' north, and long. 82° 33' west. London,
1818.]

[Footnote 53: For a description of the deeds of Pontiac, or Pondiac, as she spells his name,
see Mrs. Grant's "Memoirs of an American Lady," vol. ii.]

CHAPTER VIII.

The discussions which had been so long pending between Great Britain and the United States,
assumed, during the winter of 1811-12, a very serious aspect. But many did not believe that
the latter power was inclined to proceed to extremities; while others, who foresaw that it
only awaited a favorable moment to invade the Canadas, which were supposed ripe for revolt
and would therefore fall an easy conquest, were prepared to expect what soon after followed,
a declaration of war against Great Britain.

As this was not the first time that the American government had proceeded to menaces, and as
the northern and eastern states were known to be averse to hostilities, the British ministry
were deluded into a belief that peace would yet be maintained. Mr. Foster, the English minister
at Washington, seems to have partaken of this delusion, for it does not appear that he had
taken any precautionary measures to convey to the governor of the British North American Provinces
the earliest intelligence of the declaration of war on the 18th June, 1812; and, had it not
been for the prudent foresight of some British merchants at New York, it is possible that the
first intimation would have been received from the mouths of the American cannon. To Upper
Canada Mr. Foster sent no notice whatever of the war, and Major-General Brock was left to learn
it officially through the circuitous and dilatory channel of the governor-general. Happily,
individual diligence made up for this unpardonable neglect; and the war was known by private
expresses at Montreal, in Lower, and at Fort George, in Upper Canada, on the 24th of June,
or in six days after its declaration at Washington.

At this period the exigencies of the Peninsular war, which depended chiefly upon English arms
and English money, required the almost undivided attention and energies of the British ministry,
who are thus entitled to some excuse for their neglect of North American affairs; but they
will still remain amenable to the charge of having been guilty of the folly of too much despising
the new enemy arrayed against them at that most busy and critical moment. The want of a sufficient
force for the protection of the Canadas[54] might have proved fatal, at least to the Upper
Province, had not Major-General Brock, from the first moment of being placed at the head of
his government, been convinced that war was inevitable; and that in consequence every exertion
should be used to place the province in as respectable a state of defence as his very limited
means would admit. The instant the navigation opened in the spring, a supply of ordnance and
other stores was hurried up to fort St. Joseph; and its commandant, Captain Roberts, was instructed
to be constantly on his guard. Similar precautions were adopted relative to Amherstburg, to
which post Major-General Brock paid a visit early in June, and fortunately took with him a
reinforcement of 100 men of the 41st regiment. But in the execution of his plans he had to
encounter many obstacles, among which the subordinate nature of his command was not the least
formidable. Even as late as the 27th May, Sir George Prevost does not seem to have considered
hostilities so near, as on that day he recommended to Major-General Brock the most rigid economy
in carrying on the public service, and in avoiding all expense that was not absolutely necessary,
on the plea of the great difficulty of raising money. Sir George has, however, been wrongly
accused of not sending any instructions whatever to Major-General Brock for some weeks after
he received intimation of the war, as he did so from Montreal on the 7th and 10th of July,
or in less than a fortnight afterwards; but, either from his dispatches not being transmitted
by express, or from some other unexplained cause, they did not reach their destination until
the 29th of July, or exactly five weeks after the declaration of war was known in Upper Canada.

On the breaking out of hostilities, the regular force in Upper Canada amounted to barely 1,500
men, including seamen, as under:

    41st Regiment         900
    10th Veterans         250
    Newfoundland Regiment  250
    Royal Artillery        50
    Provincial Seamen      50
                       ====
                  Total 1500 men.

This force had to occupy the forts St. Joseph, Amherstburg, and Chippewa--Fort Erie and Fort
George--and York and Kingston--to maintain the superiority on the lakes; to preserve the communication
and escort convoys between Coteau de Lac and Kingston; and to defend an assailable frontier
of nearly 800 miles, reckoning from the confines of Lower Canada to Amherstburg, and excluding
the British coast from the Detroit to Fort St. Joseph. With this very inadequate force, it
was the opinion of the highest authorities that the country could not be maintained. Major-General
Brock was well aware that, in carrying on the war along so extensive a frontier, uncovered
by a single fortress of strength, and with such a handful of regular troops, he could only
expect success in the aid and zealous co-operation of the people. But the province had long
been torn by intestine disputes, and the prevailing factionwhich had been originally established
by one of the judges, and which after his departure was fostered by one of his zealous supporters--had
been for years hostile to the measures of the government. We have already given Major-General
Brock's speech to the provincial parliament, on his meeting it for the first time; the session,
although obstructed by party dissensions and unlooked-for opposition, terminated better than
was anticipated, as the rancorous spirit of many was subdued by his frank and conciliatory
demeanour; and laws were passed which enabled him to organize the flank companies of the militia,
unaccompanied, however, by the desired oath of abjuration, so as to exclude settlers from the
United States and persons of doubtful loyalty. A troop of volunteer cavalry was also incorporated,
and on his return to York from Amherstburg, about the 20th of June, Major-General Brock was
gratified by the offer of a company of farmers' sons with their draft horses for the equipment
of a car brigade, under Captain Holcroft, of the royal artillery, which offer he gladly accepted.

Major-General Brock was at York when he received intelligence of the war--an event which he
had long anticipated, and which therefore did not take him by surprise. After assembling his
council and summoning an extra session of the legislature, he hastened with his brigade major,
Evans, and his aide-de-camp, Captain Glegg, to Fort George, on the Niagara frontier, where
he immediately established his head quarters. It was at first his intention to capture the
opposite American fort Niagara; but the high responsibility he was about to assume, of acting
without instructions or an official communication, being represented to him, he confined himself
to collecting and preparing his small force for offensive or defensive operations. Early in
July he procured a "National Intelligencer," which contained the act of congress declaratory
of war, and the message of the president accompanying it, and this information was of course
decisive.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, June 25, 1812.

    Sir George Prevost desires me to inform you that he has this
    instant received intelligence from Mr. Richardson, by an
    express to the north-west company, announcing that the
    American government had declared war against Great Britain.
    This dispatch left New York on the 20th instant, and does not
    furnish any other circumstance of intelligence whatever. His
    excellency is induced to give perfect and entire credit to
    this report, although it has not yet reached through any
    official channel. Indeed, the extraordinary dispatch which has
    attended this courier, fully explains his not having received
    the minister's letters, of which he will not fail to give you
    the earliest intimation.

    Mr. Richardson informs his excellency that it is the intention
    of the company to send six large canoes to receive their furs
    by the Grand River, (or Ottawa,) and should it be thought
    expedient to reinforce the post of St. Joseph, that they will
    be able to carry six soldiers in each boat.[55] Anxious as Sir
    George feels to render you every aid in his power, and to
    afford every possible assistance and protection to the
    north-west company, who have on their part assured his
    excellency of their ready and active co-operation to the
    utmost of their ability, his excellency, nevertheless, does
    not think it advisable, under existing circumstances, to
    weaken the 49th regiment, which occupies so important and
    critical a station; nor can he hold out any certain prospect
    of any further reinforcement until the arrival of the troops
    he has been led to expect from England, but directs me to
    assure you of his cordial wish to render you every efficient
    support in his power.

Major-General Brock to Sir George Prevost.

    FORT GEORGE, July 3, 1812.

    I have been anxiously expecting for some days to receive the
    honor of your excellency's commands in regard to the measures
    the most proper to be pursued on the present emergency.

    The accounts received, first through a mercantile channel, and
    soon after repeated from various quarters, of war having been
    declared by the United States against Great Britain, would
    have justified, in my opinion, offensive operations. But the
    reflection that at Detroit and Michilimakinack the weak state
    of the garrisons would prevent the commanders from
    accomplishing any essential service, connected in any degree
    with their future security, and that my means of annoyance on
    this communication were limited to the reduction of Fort
    Niagara, which could easily be battered at any future period,
    I relinquished my original intention, and attended only to
    defensive measures. My first object has been the calling out
    of the flank companies of militia, which has produced a force
    on this line of about 800 men. They turned out very
    cheerfully, but already shew a spirit of impatience. The
    king's stores are now at so low an ebb, that they scarcely
    furnish any article of use or comfort. Blankets, hammocks and
    kettles, are all to be purchased; and the troops, when
    watching the banks of the river, stand in the utmost need of
    tents. Mr. Couche has adopted the most efficacious means to
    pay the militia in paper currency. I cannot positively state
    the number of militia that will be embodied, but they cannot
    exceed throughout the province 4,000 men.

    The Americans are very active on the opposite side, in the
    erection of redoubts; we are not idle on our part, but
    unfortunately, having supplied Amherstburg with the guns which
    that post required from Fort George, depending upon getting
    others from Kingston to supply their place, we find ourselves
    at this moment rather short of that essential arm. I have,
    however, every reason to think that they are embarked on board
    the Earl Moira, which vessel, according to Major M'Pherson's
    report, was to have sailed on the 28th ultimo. The Americans
    have, I believe, about 1,200 regulars and militia between Fort
    Niagara and Black Rock, and I consider myself at this moment
    perfectly safe against any attempt they can make. About 100
    Indians from the Grand River have attended to my summons; the
    remainder promise to come also, but I have too much reason to
    conclude that the Americans have been too successful in their
    endeavours to sow dissension and disaffection among them. It
    is a great object to get this fickle race interspersed among
    the troops. I should be unwilling, in the event of a retreat,
    to have three or four hundred of them hanging on my flank. I
    shall probably have to sacrifice some money to gain them over,
    and the appointment of a few officers with salaries will be
    absolutely necessary.

    The Americans make a daily parade of their force, and easily
    impose on the people on this side in regard to their numbers.
    I do not think they exceed 1,200, but they are represented as
    infinitely more numerous.

    For the last fortnight every precaution has been taken to
    guard against the least communication, and to this day we are
    ignorant whether the president has sanctioned the war
    resolutions of the two houses of congress; that is, whether
    war be actually declared.

    The car brigade has been completed for service with horses
    belonging to gentlemen, who spared them free of expense.

    I have not been honored with a line from Mr. Foster, nor with
    all my endeavours have I been able to obtain information of
    any consequence. The Prince Regent made her first voyage this
    morning, and I purpose sending her to Kingston this evening,
    to bring such articles as are absolutely necessary, which we
    know have arrived from Quebec. I trust she will out-sail the
    Oneida brig.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock.

    MONTREAL, July 4, 1812.

    We have a report here of your having commenced operations by
    levelling the American fort at Niagara. The general is most
    anxious to hear good and recent intelligence from your
    quarter. There is no considerable assembly of troops in our
    neighbourhood as yet; the flank companies, embodied under
    Colonel Young, are on their march, and the 2,000 militia will
    form a chain of posts from St. John's to La Prairie. The town
    militia of this and Quebec, to the amount of 3,000 in each
    city, have volunteered being embodied and drilled, and will
    take their proportion of garrison duty to relieve the troops.
    The proclamation for declaring martial law is prepared, and
    will be speedily issued. All aliens will be required to take
    the oath of allegiance, or immediately quit the province. Our
    cash is at its last issue, and a substitute of paper must per
    force be resorted to. This has been Sir George's principal
    object in calling the legislature together. You have a very
    arduous and difficult card to play, and have our sincere and
    confident wishes for your success. Sir George strongly
    recommends extreme moderation in the use of the Indians, and
    to keep them in control as much as possible.

[This letter contains the details of a large and armed assembly at La Chine, near Montreal,
of French Canadians, who refused to serve in the embodied militia. They were dispersed by the
light company of the 49th, and a detachment of artillery with two field pieces, under the command
of Major Plenderleath, of the 49th, but not before one Canadian was killed and another dangerously
wounded.]

Sir George Prevost to Major-General Brock.

    MONTREAL, July 7, 1812.

    It was only on my arrival at Montreal that I received Mr.
    Foster's notification of the congress of the United States
    having declared war against Great Britain; the fact had been
    previously ascertained through mercantile channels.

    I am convinced you have acted wisely in abstaining from
    offensive operations, which in their effect might have united
    a people governed by public opinion, and among whom too much
    division exists, at this moment, to admit of its influence in
    promoting vigorous measures against us.

    The manner of the flank companies of militia turning out must
    have been very satisfactory to you. I hope your supplies of
    ordnance and ordnance stores, on their way from Kingston, have
    arrived safe.

    I have caused arms, accoutrements and ammunition, to be
    forwarded for the use of the Cornwall, Stormont, and Dundas
    battalions of militia. Camp equipage for 500 men shall be sent
    to you as soon as possible, together with muskets.

    We are on the eve of substituting paper for bullion. I am
    aware of the Canadian prejudice against such a circulating
    medium, but it must give way to the imperious necessity of the
    times.

    It is highly proper you should secure the services of the
    Indians; but restrain and control them as much as you can.
    Whatever appointments you deem indispensably necessary you are
    authorized to make, as well as the sacrifice of some money to
    gain them over. It is proper we should maintain our ascendancy
    over the Indians, and feed with proper food their predeliction
    for us.

    Colonel Lethbridge, an inspecting field officer, is under
    orders for Kingston, and there to wait your commands.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock.

    MONTREAL, July 8, 1812.

    I was highly gratified yesterday in receiving your letters of
    the 3d July, for we have felt extremely anxious about you ever
    since we have learnt the unexpected declaration of war, which
    had been so long threatened that no one believed it would
    ever seriously take place; and even now it is the prevailing
    opinion that, from the opposition testified by the eastern
    states, offensive measures are not likely to be speedily
    adopted against this country. Sir George is inclined to let
    these sentiments take their course, and as little advantage
    would accrue by more active measures on our part, our present
    plans are all defensive. General de Rottenburg is arrived, and
    the flank companies embodied are on their way: this corps,
    with the embodied militia, will form a chain from La Prairie
    to St. John's, with a light corps advanced in their front. We
    have reports of the 103d regiment being in the river, and, it
    is added, recruits for the 100th regiment.

    Sir George has had applications from so many quarters for
    militia below Kingston, that to insure a general arrangement
    and to adopt the best system that circumstances will admit, he
    has directed Colonel Lethbridge, the inspecting field officer
    here, to proceed through the line of settlements to see the
    several colonels and corps of militia so as to fix their
    quotas, and afterwards to proceed to Kingston and assume the
    command of that post, if necessary: he will be placed under
    your orders, but you will perhaps not wish to bring him in
    contact with the 41st regiment, as he is senior to Colonel
    Proctor.

    Sir George desires me to say, that he does not attempt to
    prescribe specific rules for your guidance--they must be
    directed by your discretion and the circumstances of the
    time: the present order of the day with him is forbearance,
    until hostilities are more decidedly marked.

    Colonel Lethbridge's departure for Kingston affords me an
    opportunity of replying more fully and confidentially to your
    letter of the 3d instant, than I could venture to have done
    the day before, yesterday by an uncertain conveyance. That
    officer has been desired to transmit to you, together with
    this dispatch, a copy of the instructions given to him for his
    guidance until the exigencies of the service make it necessary
    in your estimation to substitute others, or to employ the
    colonel in any other situation of command. In them you will
    find expressed my sentiments respecting the mode of conducting
    the war on our part, suited to the existing circumstances; and
    as they change, so must we vary our line of conduct, adapting
    it to our means of preserving entire the king's provinces.

    Our numbers would not justify offensive operations being
    undertaken, unless they were solely calculated to strengthen a
    defensive attitude. I consider it prudent and politic to avoid
    any measure which can in its effect have a tendency to unite
    the people in the American States. Whilst disunion prevails
    among them, their attempts on these provinces will be feeble;
    it is, therefore, our duty carefully to avoid committing any
    act which may, even by construction, tend to unite the eastern
    and southern states, unless, by its perpetration, we are to
    derive a considerable and important advantage. But the
    government of the United States, resting on public opinion for
    all its measures, is liable to sudden and violent changes; it
    becomes an essential part of our duty to watch the effect of
    parties on its measures, and to adapt ours to the impulse
    given by those possessed of influence over the public mind in
    America.

    Notwithstanding these observations, I have to assure you of my
    perfect confidence in your measures for the preservation of
    Upper Canada. All your wants shall be supplied as fast as
    possible, except money, of which I have so little, as to be
    obliged to have recourse to a paper currency.

    The adjutant-general has reported to you the aid we have
    afforded, in arms and ammunition, to your militia at Cornwall,
    Glengary, Dundas, and Stormont.

    To prevent an interruption to the communication between the
    two provinces, it is fit a system of convoy should be
    established between Montreal and Kingston; and as
    Major-General de Rottenburg is to remain here in command of a
    cordon of troops, consisting of regulars and militia,
    (established in this neighbourhood to prevent an irruption for
    the plunder of Montreal,) whilst I attend to parliamentary
    duties at Quebec, on that subject you may communicate direct
    with the major-general, as he has my instructions to
    co-operate with you on preserving this important object.

    With the exception of occasional firing from the opposite
    shore, (the unauthorized act of an undisciplined militia,)
    nothing of a hostile nature has occurred on this communication
    since I last had the honor of addressing your excellency.

    The enemy is busy constructing batteries at different points
    in the river, but he does not appear to have yet received
    cannon to place in them. We are doing all we can on this side
    to counteract his views, and the arrival this morning of the
    Royal George and the vessels under her convoy, bringing
    various pieces of ordnance, will give us in this respect a
    decided superiority.

    The militia, which assembled here immediately on the account
    being received of war being declared by the United States,
    have been improving daily in discipline; but the men evince a
    degree of impatience under their present restraint, that is
    far from inspiring confidence. So great was the clamour to
    return and attend to their farms, that I found myself in some
    measure compelled to sanction the departure of a large
    proportion; and I am not without my apprehensions that the
    remainder will, in defiance of the law, which can only impose
    a fine of £20, leave the service the moment the harvest
    commences. There can be no doubt that a large portion of the
    population in this neighbourhood are sincere in their
    professions to defend the country; but it appears likewise
    evident to me that the greater part are either indifferent to
    what is passing, or so completely American as to rejoice in
    the prospect of a change of government. Many who now consider
    our means inadequate, would readily take an active part were
    the regular troops increased. These cool calculators are
    numerous in all societies.

    The alacrity and good temper with which the militia, in the
    first instance, marched to the frontiers, have tended to
    infuse in the mind of the enemy a very different sentiment of
    the disposition of the inhabitants, who, he was led to believe
    would, upon the first summons, declare themselves an American
    state. The display for several days of a large force was made,
    I have every reason to believe, in that expectation.

    Nearly the whole of the arms at my disposal have been issued.
    They are barely sufficient to arm the militia immediately
    required to guard the frontier. Were I furnished with the
    means of distributing arms among the people, in whom
    confidence can be placed, they would not only overawe the
    disaffected, but prove of essential use in the event of
    invasion. The militia assembled in a wretched state in regard
    to clothing; many were without shoes, an article which can
    scarcely be provided in the country.

    After the cannon, which have arrived this morning, are
    mounted, I shall consider my front perfectly secure. I do not
    imagine the enemy will hazard a water excursion with a view to
    turn my flanks. He probably will wait until winter, when the
    ice will enable him to cross with the utmost facility to any
    part between Fort Erie and as far as Long Point. My situation
    will then depend upon the force the enemy may bring to invade
    the province. Should the troops have to move, the want of
    tents will be severely felt.

    A person who left Sandwich yesterday week, pretends that the
    enemy was then in the act of cannonading the place. I have not
    heard from Lieut.-Colonel St. George since my last letter to
    your excellency.

    An officer is so absolutely necessary to command in the
    eastern district, that I have consented to Major-General Shaw
    proceeding thither in that capacity. I have full confidence in
    his judgment, and his conduct in the field is undoubted. He of
    course will assume the command in virtue of his militia rank,
    and will be liable to be superseded by any lieutenant-colonel
    your excellency may be pleased to appoint.

    The expense of defending this province will unquestionably be
    great; upon a rough calculation, and supposing that 4,000
    militia be constantly embodied, it cannot be estimated at less
    than £140,000 per annum. However great the sum, it will be
    applied to very considerable advantage, provided your
    excellency be enabled to send reinforcements, as without them
    it is scarcely possible that the government of the United
    States will be so inactive or supine as to permit the present
    limited force to remain in possession of the country. Whatever
    can be done to preserve it, or to delay its fall, your
    excellency may rest assured will be exerted.

    Having been suddenly called away from York, I had not time to
    close my dispatch, giving your excellency an account of my
    proceedings during my stay at Amherstburg. I now have the
    honor to forward two documents, detailing the steps taken by
    the Indian department to prevail on that unfortunate people to
    accommodate their differences with the American government.

Extract from an American Newspaper.

    BUFFALO, July 14, 1812.

    Major-General Brock is at present at Newark, superintending
    the various defences on the river. He is stated to be an able
    and experienced officer, with undoubted courage. He came from
    Little York soon after hearing the declaration of war, and, it
    was believed, with a serious intention of attacking Fort
    Niagara, but, contrary to what has been reported, he made no
    demand of a surrender.

    Expecting a descent from the American army, the Canadians
    have, for ten days past, been removing their families and
    effects from the river into the interior. At Newark,
    Queenston, and other villages on the river, there are no
    inhabitants except a few civilians and officers and soldiers.
    It is even said, that an immense quantity of specie, plate,
    &c, from various parts of the province, have been boxed up,
    and destined for Quebec.

    The British are understood to have about six or seven hundred
    regular troops stationed between the lakes, from Fort George
    to Fort Erie. These men are generally those who have "seen
    service" in various parts of the world. The militia of the
    province are ordered out en masse.

    It is stated by gentlemen of intelligence at Lewistown, that
    the government of Canada have in their employment, under pay,
    about 250 Indians, armed complete: a part of them are mounted.

    Brigadier-General William Wadsworth, from Genesee, commands
    the troops on our frontiers. His aids are Major Adam Hoops and
    Major W. H. Spencer. His head quarters are now at Lewistown.
    It is impossible to state the precise number of troops under
    his command, because the militia ordered on the lines are
    returning, and the companies composing the regiments under his
    command have not all arrived; but from what we learn, there
    are in regular troops, volunteers, and detached militia, above
    4,000 stationed at Rock, Lewistown, Youngstown, and Fort
    Niagara. The troops are in excellent health, in good spirits,
    and well supplied. They appear quite impatient for want of
    employment. There has been some firing from the sentries on
    both sides of the river.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 54: At this time, the British regular force in the Canadas consisted of the 8th,
41st, 49th, and 100th regiments, a small detachment of artillery, the 10th Royal Veteran Battalion,
and the Canadian, Newfoundland, and Glengary Fencibles; amounting, in the whole, to 4,450 men.
These were distributed along the different posts from the telegraph station, about 250 miles
below Quebec, to St. Joseph's, but so unequally divided, that, in the Upper Province, whose
front extends to nearly 1,300, out of the 1,700 miles, there were but 1,450 men.--James' Military
Occurrences.]

[Footnote 55: In answer to Major-General Brock's suggestions on the subject, see page 127.]

CHAPTER IX.

The American government, in anticipation of its declaration of war, had detached from the state
of Ohio to the Michigan territory an army of about 2,500 men, under the command of Brigadier-General
Hull, who, said President Madison in his message to congress, "possessing discretionary authority
to act offensively, passed into Canada with a prospect of easy and victorious progress." The
enemy evidently confided in the very limited defensive means of the Upper Province, and in
the impossibility of its receiving early assistance from the mother country. They relied also
on the supposed disaffection of many of its inhabitants, and they expected confidently that,
weak and divided, it would fall an easy prey to the invaders; but they were soon undeceived.
Having crossed over to the Canadian village of Sandwich on the 12th July, Brigadier-General
Hull issued on that day the following insidious but able proclamation, which was doubtless
written at Washington. It will be seen that the American general was made to say, that he did
not ask the assistance of the Canadians, as he had no doubt of eventual success, because he
came prepared for every contingency with a force which would look down all opposition, and
that that force was but the vanguard of a much greater!

    W. HULL.
    By the General, A.F. HULL.
    Capt. 13th Regt. U.S. Infantry, and
    Aide-de-Camp.
    Head Quarters,
    Sandwich, July 12, 1812.

    The unavoidable and immediate consequences of a separation
    from Great Britain must be the loss of this inestimable
    advantage; and what is offered you in exchange? To become a
    territory of the United States, and share with them that
    exclusion from the ocean which the policy of their government
    enforces; you are not even flattered with a participation of
    their boasted independence; and it is but too obvious that,
    once estranged from the powerful protection of the United
    Kingdom, you must be reannexed to the dominion of France, from
    which the provinces of Canada were wrested by the arms of
    Great Britain, at a vast expense of blood and treasure, from
    no other motive than to relieve her ungrateful children from
    the oppression of a cruel neighbour.

    The same spirit of justice, which will make every reasonable
    allowance for the unsuccessful efforts of zeal and loyalty,
    will not fail to punish the defalcation of principle. Every
    Canadian freeholder is, by deliberate choice, bound by the
    most solemn oaths to defend the monarchy, as well as his own
    property; to shrink, from that engagement is a treason not to
    be forgiven. Let no man suppose that if, in this unexpected
    struggle, his majesty's arms should be compelled to yield to
    an overwhelming force, the province will be eventually
    abandoned; the endeared relations of its first settlers, the
    intrinsic value of its commerce, and the pretensions of its
    powerful rival to repossess the Canadas, are pledges that no
    peace will be established between the United States and Great
    Britain and Ireland, of which the restoration of these
    provinces does not make the most prominent condition. By what new principle are they
    to be prohibited from defending their property?

    ISAAC BROCK,
    Major-Gen, and President.
    Head Quarters,
    Fort George, July 22, 1812.
    By order of his honor the president.
    J.B. GLEGG,
    Captain and Aide-de-Camp.

    My last to your excellency was dated the 12th instant, since
    which nothing extraordinary has occurred on this
    communication. The enemy has evidently diminished his force,
    and appears to have no intention of making an immediate
    attack.

    I have herewith the honor of enclosing the copy of two letters
    which I have received from Lieut.-Colonel St. George, together
    with some interesting documents found on board a schooner,
    which the boats of the Hunter captured on her voyage from the
    Miami to Detroit.

    From the accompanying official correspondence between General
    Hull and the secretary at war, it appears that the collected
    force which has arrived at Detroit amounts to about 2,000 men.
    I have requested Colonel Proctor to proceed to Amherstburg,
    and ascertain accurately the state of things in that quarter.
    I had every inclination to go there myself, but the meeting of
    the legislature on the 27th instant renders it impossible.

    I receive this moment a dispatch dated the 15th instant, from
    Lieut.-Colonel St. George, giving an account of the enemy
    having landed on the 12th and immediately after occupied the
    village of Sandwich. It is strange that three days should be
    allowed to elapse before sending to acquaint me of this
    important fact. I had no idea, until I received Lieut.-Colonel
    St. George's letter a few days ago that General Hull was
    advancing with so large a force.

    The militia, from every account, behaved very ill. The
    officers appear the most in fault. Colonel Proctor will
    probably reach Amherstburg in the course of to-morrow. I have
    great dependence in that officer's decision, but fear he will
    arrive too late to be of much service. The enemy was not
    likely to delay attacking a force that had allowed him to
    cross the river in open day without firing a shot.

    The position which Lieut.-Colonel St. George occupied is very
    good, and infinitely more formidable than the fort itself.
    Should he therefore be compelled to retire, I know of no other
    alternative than his embarking in the king's vessels and
    proceeding to Fort Erie.

    Were it possible to animate the militia to a proper sense of
    their duty, something might yet be done--but I almost despair.

    Your excellency will readily perceive the critical situation
    in which the reduction of Amherstburg will place me.

    I do not imagine General Hull will be able to detach more than
    I,000 men, but even with that trifling force I much fear he
    will succeed in getting to my rear. The militia will not act
    without a strong regular force to set them the example; and as
    I must now expect to be seriously threatened, I cannot in
    prudence make strong detachments, which would not only weaken
    my line of defence, but, in the event of a retreat, endanger
    their safety.

    I am now given to understand that General Hull's insidious
    proclamation, herewith enclosed, has already been productive
    of considerable effect on the minds of the people. In fact, a
    general sentiment prevails, that with the present force
    resistance is unavailing. I shall continue to exert myself to
    the utmost to overcome every difficulty. Should, however, the
    communication between Kingston and Montreal be cut off, the
    fate of the troops in this part of the province will be
    decided. I now express my apprehensions on a supposition that
    the slender means your excellency possesses will not admit of
    diminution; consequently, that I need not look for
    reinforcements. It is evidently not the intention of the enemy
    to make any attempt to penetrate into the province by this
    strait, unless the present force be diminished. He seems much
    more inclined to work on the flanks, aware that if he succeed
    every other part must very soon submit.

    My last official communication from the Lower Province is
    dated the 25th ultimo, when the adjutant-general announced the
    receipt of intelligence, by a mercantile house, of war being
    declared by the United States against Great Britain.

Major-General Sir Thomas Saumarez, Kt.,[57] to Major-General Brock.

    HALIFAX, July 22, 1812.

    Being this moment informed that an express is to be dispatched
    immediately from hence to Quebec, I have great pleasure in
    having an opportunity to inquire after your health and
    welfare, and to acquaint you that your relation, Lady
    Saumarez, and myself, arrived here about a month since. I
    assure you we consider ourselves particularly fortunate in not
    having fallen into the enemy's bands, as the Americans had
    declared war a week before we reached this. We came out in a
    very valuable ordnance store ship, which would have been a
    great acquisition to the enemy, at the breaking out of a war
    especially; and the loss to us would have been seriously felt
    here, as all the stores on board were very much required.
    Another ship with naval stores accompanied us; they were much
    wanted by our squadron, and possibly as much so by the ships
    of the enemy. Our squadron on this station has been very
    active. Prizes arrive here daily, I could almost say hourly.
    The Emulous brig brought in ten yesterday, and 30,000 dollars
    were found on board some of them. Mr. Foster, late ambassador
    to the American States, has been here nearly a week; he is to
    sail for England to-day. According to the best information we
    can obtain here, the Northern and Eastern States of America
    are extremely inimical to, and dissatisfied with, the war; so
    much so, that there is reason to suppose they will dissolve
    the Union shortly, and declare themselves totally independent
    of the Southern and Western States.

    The American privateers are extremely numerous and daring in
    this neighbourhood; and, I am sorry to add, they have proved
    but too successful, having captured several of our vessels
    bound to Quebec and New Brunswick, and some to this port. I
    received a note about an hour ago from Lieut.-Colonel Pearson,
    who sailed from hence last Sunday, with his wife and family,
    for Quebec, being appointed inspecting field officer in
    Canada, to inform me that he had been made prisoner by an
    American privateer. Most of our ships are looking out for the
    squadron the Americans have at sea, under Commodore Rodgers,
    who is supposed to have sailed from New York with a view to
    intercept our West India fleet homeward bound.

    We are as busy here as possible in placing all our outposts in
    the best state of defence. I suppose you are not less so.

    A transport, with 140 men of the Royals, from the West Indies
    to Quebec, was boarded by the Essex American frigate about ten
    days ago, and permitted to proceed, on condition that the
    master of the vessel promised to pay a ransom of 12,000
    dollars for her; and that the officer commanding considered
    himself on parole, and gave his assurance that the troops
    would not fight against the Americans during the war. The
    transport arrived here yesterday, and the remainder of the
    battalion is supposed to have reached Quebec.

    You have probably heard of the many improvements in our little
    island. An excellent road was finished from town to Vazon Bay,
    and from Fort George to Rocquaine; also one from town to
    Lancresse. The Braye du Valle is now under a state of
    cultivation. Roads of communication were nearly finished; one
    of them from what is called the Long Store passes Amherst
    Barracks and my house, and joins the great road to the Forest
    and St. Martin's: the opening of all these have discovered
    many beautiful views, which we did not know the island
    possessed.

    If there should be any thing I can do for you or my nephew
    James Brock, I beg that you will afford me the pleasure of
    executing your commissions. I have not time to add more, but
    to assure you both of Lady S.'s and my best wishes and
    regards.

    Since my dispatch to your excellency of the 20th instant, I
    have received information of the enemy having made frequent
    and extensive inroads from Sandwich up the river Thames. I
    have in consequence been induced to detach Capt. Chambers with
    about 50 of the 41st regiment to the Moravian town, where I
    have directed 200 militia to join him. From the loud and
    apparently warm professions of the Indians residing on the
    Grand River, I made no doubt of finding at all times a large
    majority ready to take the field and act in conjunction with
    our troops; but accounts received this morning state that they
    have determined to remain neutral, and they had consequently
    refused, with the exception of about fifty, to join Captain
    Chambers' detachment.

    I meditated a diversion to the westward, the moment I could
    collect a sufficient number of militia, in the hope of
    compelling General Hull to retreat across the river; but this
    unexpected intelligence has ruined the whole of my plans. The
    militia, which I destined for this service, will now be
    alarmed, and unwilling to leave their families to the mercy
    of 400 Indians, whose conduct affords such wide room for
    suspicion; and really to expect that this fickle race will
    remain in a state of neutrality in the midst of war, would be
    truly absurd. The Indians have probably been led to this
    change of sentiment by emissaries from General Hull, whose
    proclamation to the Six Nations is herewith enclosed.

    I have not deemed it of sufficient consequence to commence
    active operations on this line, by an attack on Fort Niagara.
    It can be demolished, when found necessary, in half an hour,
    and there my means of annoyance would terminate. To enable the
    militia to acquire some degree of discipline without
    interruption, is of far greater consequence than such a
    conquest. Every thing in my power shall be done to overcome
    the difficulties by which I am surrounded; but without strong
    reinforcements, I fear the country cannot be roused to make
    exertions equal to meet this crisis.

    I proceed immediately to York, to attend the meeting of the
    legislature, and I hope to return on Wednesday. The charge of
    this frontier will in the mean time devolve on Lieut.-Colonel
    Myers, who appears worthy of every confidence. The actual
    invasion of the province has compelled me to recall that
    portion of the militia whom I permitted to return home and
    work at harvest. I am prepared to hear of much discontent in
    consequence; the disaffected will take advantage of it, and
    add fuel to the flame. But it may not be without reason that
    I may be accused of having already studied their convenience
    and humour, to the injury of the service.

    I should have derived much consolation in the midst of my
    present difficulties had I been honored, previously to the
    meeting of the legislature, with your excellency's
    determination in regard to this province. That it cannot be
    maintained with its present force is very obvious; and unless
    the enemy be driven from Sandwich, it will be impossible to
    avert much longer the impending ruin of the country. Numbers
    have already joined the invading army; commotions are excited;
    and the late occurrences at Sandwich have spread a general
    gloom. I have not heard from Lieut.-Colonel St. George, or
    from any individual at Amherstburg, since I last had the honor
    of addressing your excellency, which makes me apprehensive
    that Colonel Proctor has been detained on his journey too long
    for the good of the service.

    The enemy's cavalry, amounting to about fifty, are led by one
    Watson, a surveyor from Montreal of a desperate character.
    This fellow has been allowed to parade with about twenty men
    of the same description as far as Westminster, vowing as they
    went along the most bitter vengeance against the first
    characters in the province. Nothing can shew more strongly the
    state of apathy which exists in most parts of the country; but
    I am perhaps too liberal in attributing the conduct of the
    inhabitants to that cause.

    Mr. Couche has represented to the head of his department the
    total impracticability of carrying on the public service
    without a remittance of specie, or a government paper
    substitute. He was in expectation of making arrangements with
    some individuals that would have enabled him to proceed, but I
    much fear that the whole project has fallen to the ground. The
    militia on this communication were so clamorous for their pay,
    that I directed Mr. Couche to make the necessary advances, and
    this has drained him of the little specie in his possession.

    My present civil office not only authorizes me to convene
    general courts martial for the trial of offenders belonging to
    the militia, but likewise the infliction of the sentence of
    death; whilst, in regard to the military, my power is limited
    to the mere assembling of the court. I beg leave to submit to
    the consideration of your excellency, whether in times like
    the present I ought not to be invested with equal authority
    over each service.

    I herewith have the honor to transmit two letters, one from
    Captain Roberts, commanding at St. Joseph's, and the second
    from Mr. Dickson, a gentleman every way capable of forming a
    correct judgment of the actual state of the Indians. Nothing
    can be more deplorable than his description; yet the United
    States government accuse Great Britain of instigating that
    people to war. Is not the true cause to be found in the state
    of desperation to which they are reduced by the unfriendly
    and unjust measures of that government towards them?

      *      *      *      *      *

On the 27th of July, Major-General Brock returned to York from Fort George, on which day, accompanied
by a numerous suite, he opened the extra session of the legislature, and delivered the following
speeches.

    Honorable Gentlemen of the Legislative Council, and Gentlemen
    of the House of Assembly,

    The urgency of the present crisis is the only consideration
    which could have induced me to call you together at a time
    when public, as well as private duties elsewhere, demand your
    care and attention.

    But, gentlemen, when invaded by an enemy whose avowed object
    is the entire conquest of the province, the voice of loyalty,
    as well as of interest, calls aloud to every person in the
    sphere in which he is placed to defend his country.

    Our militia have heard that voice, and have obeyed it; they
    have evinced, by the promptitude and loyalty of their conduct,
    that they are worthy of the king whom they serve, and of the
    constitution which they enjoy; and it affords me particular
    satisfaction, that while I address you as legislators, I speak
    to men who, in the day of danger, will be ready to assist, not
    only with their counsel, but with their arms.

    We look, gentlemen, to our militia, as well as to the regular
    forces, for our protection; but I should be wanting to that
    important trust committed to my care, if I attempted to
    conceal (what experience, the great instructor of mankind, and
    especially of legislators, has discovered,) that amendment is
    necessary in our militia laws to render them efficient.

    A few traitors have already joined the enemy, have been
    suffered to come into the country with impunity, and have been
    harboured and concealed in the interior; yet the general
    spirit of loyalty which appears to pervade the inhabitants of
    this province, is such as to authorize a just expectation that
    their efforts to mislead and deceive will be unavailing. The
    disaffected, I am convinced, are few--to protect and defend
    the loyal inhabitants from their machinations, is an object
    worthy of your most serious deliberation.

    Gentlemen of the House of Assembly,

    I have directed the public accounts of the province to be laid
    before you, in as complete a state as this unusual period will
    admit; they will afford you the means of ascertaining to what
    extent you can aid in providing for the extraordinary demands
    occasioned by the employment of the militia, and I doubt not
    but to that extent you will cheerfully contribute.

    The invasion of the western district by Brigadier-General
    Hull, and the artful and threatening language of his
    proclamation, were productive at the outset of very
    unfavourable effects among a large portion of the inhabitants
    of Upper Canada; and so general was the despondency, that the
    Norfolk militia, consisting, we believe, chiefly of settlers
    of American origin, peremptorily refused to march. The
    majority of the members of the house of assembly were
    impressed with the same gloomy forebodings, and that body
    appeared by its proceedings rather to court the favor of the
    enemy than fearlessly to perform its duty. It was therefore
    prorogued upon passing the money bills, as no advantage could
    result from its remaining longer in session. The state of the
    province required the most prompt and decisive measures for
    its preservation, and Major-General Brock considered its
    situation at this moment as extremely critical. With the
    concurrence of his council, to whom he represented his many
    difficulties, he is said to have resolved on exercising
    martial law whenever he should find it necessary, although the
    house of assembly had rejected its enactment, even in a
    modified form. Not only among the militia was a disposition
    evinced to submit tamely, but five hundred in the western
    district sought the protection of the enemy. It is true that
    the people then were far removed from the seat of government,
    and the more subject to hostile influence, as they were
    principally composed of French Canadians and of the natives of
    the United States, or their immediate descendants; but even
    the Indians, who were located on the Grand River, in the heart
    of the province, positively refused, with a few exceptions, to
    take up arms; and they announced their intention, after the
    return of some of their chiefs from General Hull, to remain
    neutral, as if they wished the authorities to believe that
    they would remain in peace in the midst of war. Major-General
    Brock had not long administered the government of the
    province, but where he was individually known, and where his
    personal influence extended, a better feeling prevailed; and
    his counter-proclamation served not only to animate the well
    disposed, but to counteract the machinations of the
    disaffected. The confident tone of his address to the
    provincial parliament was also productive of the best effects,
    whatever inward misgivings he might feel; and those who were
    dastardly enough to join the invaders of their native or
    adopted country, were quickly taught to repent of their
    baseness and treason.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 56: Christie's Memoirs, already cited at page 90.]

[Footnote 57: General Sir Thomas Saumarez, now in his 85th year, and brother of the late Admiral
Lord de Saumarez.]

CHAPTER X.

We have mentioned that Major-General Brock had in the spring provided for the protection of
Fort St. Joseph, a small British post, distant by water nearly 700 hundred miles from York,
and situate about 40 miles, also by water, to the north-east of the American island and fort
of Michilimakinack, or Makinack, which island is in latitude 45° 35' north, and longitude 84°
30' west; and one of his first cares, on hearing of the declaration of the war, was to send,
on the 26th of June, a notification of it to Captain Roberts, who was stationed at St. Joseph
with a detachment of the 10th Royal Veteran Battalion, accompanied by orders to make an immediate
attack upon Michilimakinack, if practicable; or, in the event of an attack by the Americans
upon St. Joseph, to defend it to the utmost. Captain Roberts received at the same time another
letter from Major-General Brock, dated the 27th June, suspending the orders for the attack
from the uncertainty he was under of the declaration of war. In a third letter, dated Fort
George, the 28th June, Major-General Brock, being sufficiently informed of such a declaration,
directed Captain Roberts to adopt the most prompt and effectual measures to possess himself
of Michilimakinack, and for this purpose to summon to his assistance the Indians within his
influence, as well as the gentlemen and dependants of the British fur companies near his post.
On the day that Captain Roberts received this letter, another reached him from Sir George Prevost,
dated Quebec, 25th of June, by which he was directed to take every precaution to secure his
post against any attempt by the enemy, and, in case of necessity, to effect his retreat.[58]
This contrariety of instructions from the two general officers did not fail to perplex Captain
Roberts, who, however, with great promptitude and decision made preparations for the attack.
By another dispatch of the 4th of July, from Major-General Brock, Captain Roberts was left
at his own discretion to adopt either offensive or defensive measures, as circumstances might
dictate. On the 16th July, he accordingly set out with a flotilla of boats and canoes, in which
were embarked 45 officers and men of the 10th Royal Veteran Battalion, about 180 Canadians,
and nearly 400 Indians, the whole convoyed by the Caledonia brig, belonging to the North-West
company; and on the ensuing morning, the British force effected a landing before Michilimakinack,[59]
the garrison of which, consisting only of 61 officers and men, immediately surrendered by capitulation.
A quantity of military stores and seven hundred packs of furs were found in the fort, and its
surrender had a very favorable effect upon the Indians, a large number of whom now joined in
open hostility against the Americans. It will be found by a letter of the 12th August, from
Sir George Prevost, who appears to have seen no safety but in defensive measures, that he would
not have approved of the attack on Michilimakinack if it had occurred prior to Hull's invasion!
And yet that officer, in his official dispatch relative to the capture of his army and the
surrender of Detroit, attributed his disasters partly to the fall of Michilimakinack, which
he said opened the northern hive of Indians against him!

Major-General Brock to Sir George Prevost.

    YORK, July 29, 1812.

    I have the honor to transmit herewith a dispatch this instant
    received from Captain Roberts, announcing the surrender by
    capitulation, on the 17th instant, of Fort Michilimakinack.

    The conduct of this officer since his appointment to the
    command of that distant post, has been distinguished by much
    zeal and judgment, and his recent eminent display of those
    qualities your excellency will find has been attended with the
    most happy effect.

    The militia stationed here volunteered this morning their
    services to any part of the province without the least
    hesitation. I have selected 100, whom I have directed to
    proceed without delay to Long Point, where I purpose
    collecting a force for the relief of Amherstburg. This
    example, I hope, will be followed by as many as may be
    required. By the militia law, a mail refusing to march may be
    fined £5, or confined three months; and although I have
    assembled the legislature for the express purpose of amending
    the act, I much fear nothing material will be done. Your
    excellency will scarcely believe, that this infatuated house
    of assembly have refused, by a majority of two, to suspend for
    a limited time the habeas corpus.

    The capture of Michilimakinack may produce great changes to
    the westward. The actual invasion of the province justifies
    every act of hostility on the American territory.

    It was not till this morning that I was honored with your
    excellency's dispatches, dated the 7th and 10th instant. Their
    contents, I beg to assure your excellency, have relieved my
    mind considerably. I doubt whether General Hull had
    instructions to cross to this side of the river; I rather
    suspect he was compelled by a want of provisions. I embark
    immediately in the Prince Regent for Fort George. I return
    here the day after to-morrow, and shall probably dissolve the
    legislature.

Sir George Prevost to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, July 31, 1812.

    I have received your letter of the 20th instant, accompanied
    by the copy of two letters from Lieut.-Colonel St. George, who
    is in command at Amherstburg, and some interesting documents
    found on board a schooner, which had been taken by the boats
    of the Hunter.

    In consequence of your having desired Colonel Proctor to
    proceed to Amherstburg, and of your presence being necessary
    at the seat of government to meet the legislature of Upper
    Canada, I have taken upon myself to place Major-General
    Sheaffe on the staff, to enable me to send him to assist you
    in the arduous task you have to perform, in the able execution
    of which I have great confidence. He has been accordingly
    directed to proceed without delay to Upper Canada, there to
    place himself under your command.

    I believe you are authorized by the commission under which you
    administer the government of Upper Canada, to declare martial
    law in the event of invasion or insurrection; it is therefore
    for you to consider whether you can obtain any thing
    equivalent to that power from your legislature. I have not
    succeeded in obtaining a modification of it in Lower Canada,
    and must therefore, upon the occurrence of either of those
    calamities, declare the law martial unqualified, and of course
    shut the doors of the courts of civil law.

    The report transmitted by Captain Dixon, of the Royal
    Engineers, to Lieut.-Colonel Bruyeres, of the state of defence
    in which he had placed Fort Amherstburg, together with the
    description of the troops allotted for its defence, give me a
    foreboding that the result of General Hull's attempt upon that
    fort will terminate honorably to our arms.

    If Lieut.-Colonel St. George be possessed of the talents and
    resources required to form a soldier, he is fortunate in the
    opportunity of displaying them. Should General Hull be
    compelled to relinquish his operations against Amherstburg, it
    will be proper his future movements should be most carefully
    observed, as his late march exhibits a more than ordinary
    character of enterprize.

    Your supposition of my slender means is but too correct;
    notwithstanding, you may rely upon every exertion being made
    to preserve uninterrupted the communication between Kingston
    and Montreal, and that I will also give all possible support
    to your endeavours to overcome every difficulty.

    The possession of Malden, which I consider means Amherstburg,
    appears a favorite object with the government of the United
    States. I sincerely hope you will disappoint them.

    Should the intelligence, which arrived yesterday by the way of
    Newfoundland, prove correct, a remarkable coincidence will
    exist in the revocation of our orders in council as regards
    America, and the declaration of war by congress against
    England, both having taken place on the same day in London and
    at Washington, the 17th June.

Colonel Baynes to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, August 1, 1812.

    Sir George yesterday received your letter of the 20th with its
    several enclosures, which are, I assure you, highly
    interesting to all, and doubly so to those who feel warmly and
    sincerely attached to you; and few, I believe, possess more
    friends and well wishers than yourself. 100 effective of the
    Newfoundland, and 50 picked men of the Veterans, left this in
    boats on Thursday, and, as it has blown a gale of east wind
    ever since, have I trust made great progress: they were
    intended to reinforce the garrison of Kingston, and to relieve
    the company of the 49th that escorted stores to that place.
    Sir George regrets extremely his inability to render you a
    more efficient aid, but, under existing circumstances, he does
    not feel himself warranted to do more. I regret to find your
    militia at Sandwich so lukewarm, to call it by no harsher
    name; but I fear that little can be expected from those
    recently settled, or of American extraction, and with our
    Canadians we have found a very reluctant compliance. I trust
    we may still look to considerable reinforcements from home
    this year. We are led to expect the 1st battalion of the
    Royals from the West Indies immediately, destined indeed to
    relieve the 41st. I hope we shall not be disappointed, as our
    militia will feel bold if well backed; and I am sure Sir
    George will rejoice in receiving the means of rendering you
    further assistance. It appears to be credited that the orders
    in council were rescinded, in as far as regarded America, on
    the 17th June, the day the war vote was carried: this will
    strengthen the oppositionists in the States, and the timid
    will feel alarmed, not without reason, when they read the
    glorious and judicious exploit of Captain Hotham, in the
    Northumberland, 74, in destroying, under circumstances of
    great difficulty and peril, two French 44-gun frigates and a
    sloop, which received a superior degree of protection from
    batteries on the shore than can be afforded to Commodore
    Rodgers in any harbour of the States.

    The Americans are forming depôts in the neighbourhood of the
    Montreal frontier and building batteries on the lake, but they
    have not brought forward any considerable shew of
    strength;--on this appearance of weakness we cannot rely, as
    it would answer no good end making a parade before they
    intended to attack. If they be serious in their views on this
    province, the attempt will be probably backed by predatory
    incursions on various points. A corps of militia is kept on
    the Point Levi side.

    Our legislature meet this day to terminate the session. One
    great object has been accomplished in the house, adding the
    provincial security to the army money note bill; the province
    pays the interest accruing upon the notes and the expense of
    the establishment, and they are constituted a legal tender.
    Without this step we were completely at a stand, for we could
    not obtain money to pay the last month's subsistence to the
    troops: great benefit is expected to accrue from the operation
    of the bill. The clergy have engaged to promote the
    circulation of the notes, all of which above twenty-five
    dollars bear interest, and all under are payable on demand.

    Adieu, my dear generals--may every success and good fortune
    attend you in the arduous task before you: we cannot command
    success, but I am sure you will not fail to merit it.

Lieut.-Colonel Bruyeres, Royal Engineers, to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, August 1, 1812.

    I take the favorable advantage of this being delivered to you
    by General Sheaffe, to assure you of the sincere interest I
    feel in the very arduous and important position you are now
    placed in to protect and defend a chain of posts, and a
    country that has been so long neglected. This difficult task
    placed in any other hands, I should consider very
    discouraging; but I acknowledge that I look with a certain
    degree of confidence to your abilities and perseverance in
    surmounting every difficulty that must unavoidably occur in a
    service of this nature. I most fervently and earnestly hope
    that every possible success may attend all your proceedings. I
    trust that you will always meet with zeal and activity in the
    officers of my department, to perform every part of the duty
    allotted to their charge. It is very difficult at this
    distance to suggest any ideas that might be useful, as every
    operation in which you are engaged must depend so entirely
    upon local circumstances, and the conduct which the enemy may
    pursue towards attaining the object he has in view. I am glad
    to find that the new arrival of the Royals, expected at Quebec
    to-morrow, will give you the reinforcement of the 49th
    regiment, which, with the detachments of the Newfoundland and
    Veterans, and gun-boat No. 7, will add something to your
    present strength.

Sir George Prevost to Major-General Brock.

    QUEBEC, August 2, 1812.

    Last evening an officer of the 98th regiment arrived here
    express from Halifax, the bearer of dispatches to me, dated on
    the 22d ultimo, from Mr. Foster, who was then in Nova Scotia.

    I lose no time in making you acquainted with the substance of
    this gentleman's communication. He informs me that he had just
    received dispatches from England, referring to a declaration
    of ministers in parliament, relative to a proposed repeal of
    the orders in council, provided the United States government
    would return to relations of amity with us, the contents of
    which may possibly induce the American government to agree to
    a suspension of hostilities as a preliminary to negotiations
    for peace;--that he proposed sending his majesty's hired armed
    ketch Gleaner to New York, with letters to Mr. Baker, whom he
    had left at Washington in a demi-official capacity, with
    directions to communicate with the American minister and to
    write to me the result of his interview. Should the president
    of the United States think proper to signify that hostile
    operations should cease on the American side, Mr. Foster
    suggests the expediency of my being prepared to make a similar
    signification on our part.

    As I propose sending Colonel Baynes immediately into the
    United States, with a proposal for a cessation of hostile
    operations, I enclose for your information the copy of my
    letter to General Dearborn, or the commander-in-chief of the
    American forces.

    Mr. Foster also submits the propriety of our abstaining from
    an invasion of the United States territory, as only in such an
    event could the American government be empowered to order the
    militia out of the States. I am led to believe from this, that
    General Hull, in possessing himself of Sandwich, has exceeded
    his instructions; particularly as Mr. Foster informs me that
    Mr. Monroe had told him Fort Maiden (Amherstburg) would not be
    attacked, but that General Hull had stated to a friend of his,
    some time ago, that he would attempt it.

    A report has been made to me that a frigate and six
    transports, with the Royal Scots (1st battalion) on board,
    from the West Indies, are just below Bic;--in consequence of
    this reinforcement, I have ordered the company of the 49th
    regiment, sent to Kingston, to remain there; and in addition
    to the Royal Newfoundland Regiment, and a detachment of an
    officer and 50 Veterans most fit for service, now on their
    route to that station, I shall order Major Ormsby, with three
    companies of the 49th regiment, to proceed from Montreal to
    the same post, to be disposed of as you may find it necessary.

    Lieut.-General Sir J.C. Sherbrooke has informed me that one of
    the transports, with part of the Royals on board, has been
    captured by the United States frigate the Essex; that she has
    been ransomed and the officers and troops allowed to proceed,
    upon condition that they are not to serve against America
    until regularly exchanged. The vessel and troops had arrived
    at Halifax, and will shortly be sent hither.

Major-General Brock to Sir George Prevost.

    YORK, August 4, 1812.

    I have the honor to enclose a statement made by me yesterday
    to his majesty's executive council, which will fully apprize
    your excellency of my situation. The council adjourned for
    deliberation, and I have no doubt will recommend the
    prorogation of the assembly and proclamation declaring martial
    law, but doubts occurred in contemplation of such an event,
    which I take the liberty to submit to your excellency, and
    request the aid of your experience and superior judgment.

    1.--In the event of declaring martial law, can I, without the
    sign manual, approve and carry into effect the sentence of a
    general court martial?

    2.--Can I put upon a general court martial, after martial law
    is proclaimed, any person not a commissioned officer in his
    majesty's regular forces? In other words, can officers of
    militia sit in conjunction with those of the line?

Sir George Prevost to Major-General Brock.

    MONTREAL, August 12, 1812.

    Your letter of the 4th instant, enclosing the proceedings of
    the executive council of the 3d.; Captain Glegg's letter of
    the 5th instant, transmitting copies of letters from Colonel
    Proctor to you of 26th and 30th July, with the correspondence
    between Brigadier-General Hull and Lieut.-Colonel St. George,
    and the intercepted correspondence of the former, together
    with your letter to Colonel Baynes, of the 4th instant, were
    all delivered to me on my arrival at this place yesterday. The
    information they contain is highly interesting, and I lose no
    time in dispatching to you Brigade Major Shekleton, as the
    bearer of this letter, and for the purpose of receiving
    whatever communication you may have to make in return. Being
    fully aware of the necessity of affording you such
    reinforcements as the exigencies of the service in other parts
    of the two provinces would permit, I had, previous to the
    receipt of your letter, made arrangements for that purpose.

    Major Ormsby, with three companies of the 49th regiment,
    protecting a considerable supply of ordnance and ordnance
    stores, left La Chine on the 6th instant for Kingston and Fort
    George, taking with him £2,500 for the payment of the regular
    and militia forces. Major Heathcote, with one company of the
    49th regiment, about 110 men of the Newfoundland regiment, and
    50 picked Veterans, are to leave La Chine on the 13th instant.
    With this detachment, an additional supply of ordnance stores
    and camp equipage for 500 men will be forwarded for Upper
    Canada; and as soon as a sufficiency of bateaux can again be
    collected at La Chine, Colonel Vincent is under orders to
    proceed to Kingston with the remainder of the 49th regiment,
    and a subaltern of the royal artillery and ten gunners, with
    two 3-pounders.

    When these reinforcements reach you, they will, I trust,
    enable you successfully to resist the internal, as well as
    external, enemies opposed to you, and materially aid the able
    measures you have adopted for the defence of Upper Canada.

    With regard to the queries you have submitted to me on the
    subject of martial law, I have to observe, that it has not
    fallen within my experience to see martial law proclaimed,
    except in those places where it has been declared under the
    authority of a provincial legislature, which of course
    regulated the mode in which it was to be executed. As the
    martial law which you purpose declaring is founded on the
    king's commission, and upon the extreme case of invasion
    alluded to in it, I am inclined to think that whatever power
    is necessary for carrying the measure into effect, must have
    been intended to be given you by the commission, and
    consequently, that the power of assembling courts martial and
    of carrying their sentence into execution, is included in the
    authority for declaring martial law. The officers of militia
    becoming themselves subject to martial law when it is
    declared, I conceive they may sit upon courts martial with
    officers of his majesty's regular forces; but upon both these
    points I desire not to be understood as speaking
    decisively--extreme cases must be met by measures which, on
    ordinary occasions, would not perhaps be justified. Your
    situation is such as to warrant your resorting to any step
    which, in your judgment, the public safety may require. I
    should therefore think, that after taking the best opinions
    you can obtain from the first law characters you have about
    you respecting the doubts you entertain on this subject, you
    need not hesitate to determine upon that line of conduct which
    you shall think will best promote the good of the service,
    trusting, if you do err, to the absolute necessity of the
    measures you may adopt, as your justification for them to his
    majesty's government.

    Your letters of the 26th, 28th and 29th July, with the several
    enclosures and papers accompanying them, were received by me
    shortly previous to my leaving Quebec; the last containing
    Captain Roberts' official account of the capture of Fort
    Michilimakinack. Great credit is certainly due to that
    officer for the zeal and promptitude with which he has
    performed this service; at the same time I must confess, my
    mind has been very much relieved by finding that the capture
    took place at a period subsequent to Brigadier-General Hull's
    invasion of the province, as, had it been prior to it, it
    would not only have been in violation of Captain Roberts'
    orders, but have afforded a just ground for the subsequent
    conduct of the enemy, which, I now plainly perceive, no
    forbearance on your part would have prevented. The capture of
    this place will, I hope, enable the Indian tribes in that
    quarter to co-operate with you in your present movements
    against the enemy, by threatening his flanks, a diversion
    which would greatly alarm him, and probably have the effect of
    compelling him to retreat across the river.

    I send you enclosed a copy of the official repeal of the
    orders in council, which I received last night by express from
    Quebec. Although I much doubt whether this step on the part of
    our government will have any effect upon that of the United
    States, the circulation of the paper evincing their
    conciliatory disposition may tend to increase and strengthen
    the divisions which subsist amongst the people upon the
    subject of the war. I therefore recommend to you to have a
    number of copies struck off and distributed.

    Colonel Baynes is still absent upon his mission to the enemy's
    camp. Your letter to him of the 29th ultimo was received at
    the same time with those I have last acknowledged. Colonel
    Lethbridge I have directed to return to Montreal.

    The issue of army bills has taken place at Quebec, and I hope
    to be able shortly to send you a supply of them.

      *      *      *      *      *

We have previously alluded (page 206) to that part of the preceding letter which relates to
the capture of Michilimakinack. This capture appears to have been effected contrary to Sir
George Prevost's orders, as Fort St. Joseph being nearly 350 miles from Detroit and Sandwich,
and as the expedition left the fort only four days after Hull's invasion, it was scarcely possible
that Captain Roberts was then aware of that circumstance. Neither in his letter to the adjutant-general,
announcing the capture, does he excuse himself by stating that he had heard of the invasion.
In his dispatch to Earl Bathurst, written exactly a fortnight after the preceding letter, and
dated Montreal, August 26, Sir George Prevost, in communicating the surrender of Detroit, expressed
himself in very altered language, as he said:

    "In these measures he[60] was most opportunely aided by the
    fortunate surrender of Fort Michilimakinack, which, giving
    spirit and confidence to the Indian tribes in its
    neighbourhood, part of whom assisted in its capture,
    determined them to advance upon the rear and flanks of the
    American army, as soon as they heard that it had entered the
    province."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 58: This order strikes us as an unmilitary interference on the part of Sir George
Prevost with Major-General Brock's authority, Captain Roberts being under the immediate command
of the latter general.]

[Footnote 59: See Captain Roberts' Dispatch, Appendix A, Sec. 1, No. 2.]

[Footnote 60: Major-General Brock.]

CHAPTER XI.

Whilst Major-General Brock impatiently lingered on the Niagara frontier, so as to give time
to the legislature to assemble at York, he dispatched Colonel Proctor, of the 41st regiment,
with such reinforcements as could be spared, to assume the command at Amherstburg. General
Hull, after crossing to Sandwich, remained for some time inactive, under pretext of making
preparations for the reduction of Amherstburg, or Malden, as the Americans called it, which
lay but eighteen miles below him, and was not in a condition to withstand a regular siege.
During the delay, three detachments of his army were on three successive days beaten back by
a small number of the 41st regiment and a few Indians. The Indians, firing suddenly, killed
20, including 5 officers, and wounded about the same number of the Americans, who hastily retreated,
and were pursued seven miles by the warriors alone, not a British soldier being engaged. In
this affair, General Hull's dispatches and the correspondence of his troops fell into the hands
of Tecumseh, and it was partly the desponding nature of their contents which afterwards induced
Major-General Brock to attempt the capture of the American army. Foiled in the reduction of
Fort Amherstburg; disappointed in his hope of a general insurrection of the Canadians; and,
"above all, dismayed at the report of General Brock's resolution to advance against him,"[62]
Hull's schemes of conquest vanished; and he who, less than a month before, had landed in Canada
boastful of his strength and with threats of extermination, now saw no other alternative than
a hasty return to Detroit, under the pretence of concentrating his forces; and after re-opening
his communication with the rivers Raisin and Miami, through which he received his supplies,
of resuming offensive operations.

From the moment that Major-General Brock heard of the invasion of the western district, he
determined on proceeding thither in person after he had met the legislature and dispatched
the public business. Having expressed a wish of being accompanied by such of the militia as
might voluntarily offer their services, 500, principally the sons of veteran soldiers who had
settled in the province, cheerfully came forward for that purpose. The threatening attitude,
however, of the enemy on the Niagara frontier, obliged the general to content himself with
half this number; and he left York on the 6th of August for Burlington Bay, whence he proceeded
by land for Long Point, on Lake Erie. In passing the Mohawks' village, on the Grand River,
or Ouse, he desired the Indians there to tell him who were, and who were not, his friends;
and at a council held on the 7th of August, they promised that about 60 of their number should
follow him on the ensuing Monday, the 10th. At Long Point, a few regulars and nearly 300 militia
embarked with him on the 8th of the same month in boats of every description, collected among
the neighbouring farmers, who usually employed them for transporting their corn and flour.
The distance from Long Point to Amherstburg is about 200 miles along the shore, which in many
parts is a high precipitous bank of red clay, with scarcely a creek for shelter. The little
flotilla encountered heavy rain and tempestuous weather, but nothing could for a moment retard
its progress, or diminish the confidence of the men in their indefatigable leader. Among his
general orders from the commencement of hostilities, the only one relating to this voyage is
the following, which, from the singularity of the circumstances attending it, is thought worthy
of being preserved:

    G.O. Head Quarters, Pointe au Prince, Aug. 12, 1812.

    It is Major-General Brock's intention, should the wind
    continue fair, to proceed during the night; officers
    commanding boats will therefore pay attention to the order of
    sailing, as directed yesterday; the greatest care and
    attention will be required to prevent the boats from
    separating or falling behind. A great part of the banks of
    the lake, where the boats will this day pass, is much more
    dangerous and difficult of access than any we have passed; the
    boats will, therefore, not land except in the most extreme
    necessity, and then great care must be taken to choose the
    best place for beaching.

    The troops being now in the neighbourhood of the enemy, every
    precaution must be taken to guard against surprise. By Order.

    J.B. GLEGG, Aide-de-Camp.

After five days and nights of incessant exertion, the little squadron reached Amherstburg[64]
shortly before midnight on the 13th, and in a rough sketch in the handwriting of Major-General
Brock, he observed: "In no instance have I seen troops who would have endured the fatigues
of a long journey in boats, during extremely bad weather, with greater cheerfulness and constancy;
and it is but justice to this little band to add, that their conduct throughout excited my
admiration."

Soon after their landing at Amherstburg, the attention of the troops was suddenly roused by
a straggling fire of musketry, which in a few minutes became general, and appeared to proceed
from an island in the Detroit river. Colonel Elliott, the superintendent of the Indians, quickly
explained that the firing arose from the Indians attached to the British cause, who thus expressed
their joy at the arrival of the reinforcement under their white father. Major-General Brock,
aware of his scarcity of the munitions of war, sent Colonel Elliott to stop this waste of powder,
saying: "Do, pray, Elliott, fully explain my wishes and motives, and tell the Indians that
I will speak to them to-morrow on this subject." His request was promptly attended to, and
Colonel Elliott returned in about half an hour with the Shawanee chief, Tecumseh, or Tecumpthé,
already mentioned. Captain Glegg,[65] the aide-de-camp, being present, had an opportunity of
closely observing the traits of that extraordinary man, and we are indebted to him for the
following graphic particulars: "Tecumseh's appearance was very prepossessing; his figure light
and finely proportioned; his age I imagined to be about five and thirty;[66] in height, five
feet nine or ten inches; his complexion, light copper; countenance, oval, with bright hazle
eyes, beaming cheerfulness, energy, and decision. Three small silver crowns, or coronets, were
suspended from the lower cartilage of his aquiline nose; and a large silver medallion of George
the Third, which I believe his ancestor had received from Lord Dorchester, when governor-general
of Canada, was attached to a mixed coloured wampum string, and hung round his neck. His dress
consisted of a plain, neat uniform, tanned deer skin jacket, with long trousers of the same
material, the seams of both being covered with neatly cut fringe; and he had on his feet leather
mocassins, much ornamented with work made from the dyed quills of the porcupine.

"The first and usual salutation of shaking hands being over, an allusion was made to the late
firing of musketry, and Tecumseh at once approved of the reason given by Major-General Brock
for its discontinuance. It being late, the parties soon separated, with an understanding that
a council would be held the following morning. After some speeches from other chiefs, and replies
thereto, the council broke up. General Brock, having quickly discovered the superior sagacity
and intrepidity of Tecumseh, and his influence over the Indians, and not deeming it prudent
to develop before so mixed an assemblage the views which were at that moment uppermost in his
thoughts, and intended to be carried so quickly into execution, directed Colonel Elliott to
inform this Shawanee chief that he wished to see him, accompanied by a few of the oldest chiefs,
at Colonel Elliott's quarters. There the general, through the medium of interpreters, communicated
his views, and explained the manner in which he intended to carry into execution his operations
against Fort Detroit. The chiefs listened with the most apparent eagerness, and expressed their
unanimous assent to the proposed plan, assuring General Brock that their co-operation, as pointed
out, might be depended on. On General Brock asking whether the Shawanee Indians could be induced
to refrain from drinking spirits, Tecumseh assured him that his warriors might be relied on,
adding, that before leaving their country on the Wabash river, they had promised him not to
taste that pernicious liquor until they had humbled the "big knives," meaning the Americans.
In reply to this assurance, General Brock briefly said: 'If this resolution be persevered in,
you must conquer.'"

In a general order on the 14th of August, at Amherstburg, in announcing his arrival in the
western district, Major-General Brock observed: "The major-general cannot avoid expressing
his surprise at the numerous desertions which have occurred from the ranks of the militia,
to which circumstance the long stay of the enemy on this side of the river must in a great
measure be ascribed. He is willing to believe that their conduct proceeded from an anxiety
to get in their harvest, and not from any predeliction for the principles or government of
the United States."

The next day, the American commander was startled by a summons to surrender; and so resolute
a demand seems to have struck him with dismay, as at the worst he had never contemplated a
pursuit into his own territory.

    Head Quarters, Sandwich, Aug. 15, 1812.

    The force at my disposal authorizes me to require of you the
    immediate surrender of Fort Detroit.[67] It is far from my
    inclination to join in a war of extermination; but you must be
    aware, that the numerous body of Indians who have attached
    themselves to my troops, will be beyond my control the moment
    the contest commences. You will find me disposed to enter into
    such conditions as will satisfy the most scrupulous sense of
    honor. Lieut.-Colonel M'Donell and Major Glegg are fully
    authorized to conclude any arrangement that may lead to
    prevent the unnecessary effusion of blood.
    ISAAC BROCK, Major-General.
    Brigadier-General Hull.

Hull refused to see Captain Glegg, who carried the summons, and, after detaining him upwards
of two hours, returned the following answer:

    Head Quarters, Detroit, Aug. 15, 1812.

    I have received your letter of this date. I have no other
    reply to make than to inform you, that I am prepared to meet
    any force which may be at your disposal, and any consequences
    which may result from any exertion of it you may think proper
    to make.
    W. HULL, Brigadier-General,
    Commanding the N.W. Army of the U.S.

Nothing daunted, and contrary to the advice of some of his officers, Major-General Brock at
once determined on crossing the river, with the view of attempting, by a sudden and resolute
attack, the annihilation of the enemy's power in that quarter. In the afternoon, a fire was
opened from a battery of five guns, erected opposite to Detroit, under the direction of Captain
Dixon, of the Royal Engineers: this cannonade was returned from seven 24-pounders, but the
British general, perceiving that little effect was produced by either fire, gave orders that
his should cease. The troops retired to their bivouac and lay on their arms, with orders to
cross the strait, or river, which is here about three-fourths of a mile in width, on the following
morning. Accordingly, at the first blush of dawn, on Sunday, the 16th of August, when the fire
from the British battery was resumed, 330 regulars and 400 militia were embarked, with five
pieces of light artillery, in boats and canoes of every description, and soon effected a landing
without opposition, near Springwell, four or five miles below Detroit. About 600 Indians, under
Colonel Elliott, had crossed the river during the night, and were ordered to be so placed as
to take the enemy in flank and rear, should he attempt to oppose the landing. The white troops
marched towards the fort, while the Indians moved through the woods, and covered the left flank,
the right resting upon the river, and protected by the Queen Charlotte, colonial vessel of
war. The enemy's effective force was estimated at nearly 2,500 men, and, supported as they
were by a neighbouring fortress, it required no little daring to pursue them on their own ground
with such unequal numbers. Contrary to Major-General Brock's expectation, the Americans abandoned
a favorable position, strengthened by pickets and two 24-pounders, and retreated into the fort
on the advance of the British, who halted in a ravine within a mile, and, discovering the weakness
of the works on the land side, prepared for its assault. While the various columns were forming
for that purpose, a flag of truce, borne by Captain Hull, was unexpectedly seen emerging from
the fort,--Lieut.-Colonel M'Donell and Captain Glegg accompanied him back; and shortly after
the British troops marched in with Major-General Brock at their head, the American general
having assented to a capitulation, by which the Michigan territory, Fort Detroit, with thirty-three
pieces of cannon,[68] the Adams vessel of war,[69] and about 2,500 troops, including one company
of artillery, some cavalry, and the entire 4th U.S. regiment of infantry, with a stand of colours,
were surrendered to the British arms. An immense quantity of stores and the military chest
were also taken; and as there was a great deficiency of arms in the Upper Province wherewith
to equip the militia, the 2,500 stand of American became a valuable acquisition. To this surrender
the after preservation of Upper Canada, at least, may in a great measure be ascribed, as it
caused a delay of nearly a whole year in the meditated invasion,[70] and secured the support
of some of the Indian tribes, who were hesitating as to the side they should espouse. It was
the more fortunate that Major-General Brock acted with so much promptitude and vigour, because
large reinforcements were on their way to General Hull; and not only would that officer's reverse
otherwise have been spared, but the western districts of Upper Canada would probably have fallen
before the overwhelming numbers which would soon have been brought against them.

The surrender of Detroit was so unexpected, that it produced an almost electrical effect throughout
the Canadas: it was the first enterprize in which the militia had been engaged, and its success
not only imparted confidence to that body, but it inspired the timid, fixed the wavering, and
awed the disaffected. Major-General Brock from this moment became the idol of the great mass
of those whom he governed; and when he returned to York, whither he arrived on the 27th of
August, he was received amidst the heartfelt acclamations of a grateful people, rescued by
his promptitude from the ignominy of submitting to a conqueror. They remembered that in the
short space of nineteen days he had, not only met the legislature and settled the public business
of the province under the most trying circumstances that a commander could encounter, but,
with means incredibly limited, he had gone nearly 300 miles in pursuit of an invading enemy
of almost double his own force and compelled him to surrender, thus extending the British dominion
without bloodshed over an extent of country almost equal to Upper Canada.[71]

The conduct of the American general in so tamely surrendering is inexplicable, as Detroit contained
an ample supply of ammunition and provisions for nearly a month, besides an abundance of wheat
in the territory, with mills to grind any quantity into flour. One of his officers, Colonel
Cass, in a long letter to the Honorable William Eustis, the secretary of war at Washington,
said: "I have been informed by Colonel Findley, who saw the return of the quartermaster-general
the day after the surrender, that their whole force, of every description, white, red, and
black, was 1,030.[72] They had twenty-nine platoons, twelve in a platoon, of men dressed in
uniform. Many of these were evidently Canadian militia. The rest of their militia increased
their white force to about 700. The number of Indians could not be ascertained with any degree
of precision--not many were visible. And in the event of an attack upon the town and fort,
it was a species of force which could have afforded no material advantage to the enemy....
That we were far superior to the enemy, that upon any ordinary principles of calculation we
would have defeated them, the wounded and indignant feelings of every man there will testify....
I was informed by General Hull, the morning after the capitulation, that the British forces
consisted of 1,800 regulars, and that he surrendered to prevent the effusion of human blood.
That he magnified their regular force nearly five-fold, there can be no doubt. Whether the
philanthropic reason assigned by him is a sufficient justification for surrendering a fortified
town, an army, and a territory, is for the government to determine. Confident I am, that had
the courage and conduct of the general been equal to the spirit and zeal of the troops, the
event would have been brilliant and successful as it is now disastrous and dishonorable." Hull's
behaviour, then, can only be accounted for by the supposition that the boldness of his adversary's
movements led him to believe he had to contend with far greater numbers; or, that having threatened
to refuse quarter to the white man found fighting by the side of the Indian, he was apprehensive,
in the event of defeat, that this threat would be visited with severe retaliation, particularly
by the Indians, whose fury, in a successful assault, it might have been very difficult to restrain.
To their honor, however, be it said, that although they took a few prisoners on the advance,
the enemy sustained no loss of life beyond that caused by the British batteries; and in general
orders, at Detroit, they were told, that in nothing could they testify more strongly their
love to the king, their great father, than in following the dictates of honor and humanity
by which they had hitherto been actuated.

"The news of the surrender of Detroit," says the American historian, Brown, "was so unexpected,
that it came like a clap of thunder to the ears of the American people. No one would believe
the first report. The disastrous event blasted the prospects of the first campaign, and opened
the northern and western frontiers of Ohio to savage incursions.

"Previous to the surrender of Detroit, the governors of Ohio and Kentucky, in obedience to
the directions of the war department, had detached powerful reinforcements to the aid of General
Hull. Had he deferred the capitulation but a few days longer, his army, Detroit, and the Michigan
territory, would have been saved.

"The forces advancing to his support consisted of 2,000 militia, under Brigadier-General Payne,
and a battalion of mounted riflemen, under Colonel R.M. Johnson, from Kentucky; a brigade of
Ohio militia, under the orders of Brigadier-General Tupper;[73] and nearly 1,000 regulars,
under the command of General Winchester. They had reached the St. Mary's River when the news
of the capture of Detroit was received. But for the well-timed arrival of the above force a
wide scene of flight and misery, of blood and desolation, must have ensued. Nearly half of
the territory of Ohio must have been depopulated, or its inhabitants fallen victims to the
scalping knife."

"The chagrin felt at Washington," observes James in his Military Occurrences, "when news arrived
of the total failure of this the first attempt at invasion, was in proportion to the sanguine
hopes entertained of its success. To what a pitch of extravagance those hopes had been carried,
cannot better appear than in two speeches delivered upon the floor of congress, in the summer
of 1812. Dr. Eustis, the secretary at war of the United States, said: 'We can take the Canadas
without soldiers; we have only to send officers into the provinces, and the people, disaffected
towards their own government, will rally round our standard.' The honorable Henry Clay seconded
his friend, thus: 'It is absurd to suppose we shall not succeed in our enterprize against the
enemy's provinces. We have the Canadas as much under our command as she (Great Britain) has
the ocean; and the way to conquer her on the ocean is to drive her from the land. I am not
for stopping at Quebec, or any where else; but I would take the whole continent from them,
and ask them no favors. Her fleets cannot then rendezvous at Halifax, as now; and, having no
place of resort in the north, cannot infest our coast as they have lately done. It is as easy
to conquer them on the land, as their whole navy would conquer ours on the ocean. We must take
the continent from them. I wish never to see a peace till we do. God has given us the power
and the means: we are to blame if we do not use them. If we get the continent, she must allow
us the freedom of the sea.' This is the gentleman who, afterwards, in the character of a commissioner--and
it stands as a record of his unblushing apostacy--signed the treaty of peace."

Tecumseh, who was slain the year following, headed a party of his warriors on this occasion,
and in the rough sketch already mentioned, Major-General Brock remarked: "Among the Indians
whom I found at Amherstburg, and who had arrived from distant parts of the country, there were
some extraordinary characters. He who most attracted my attention was a Shawanee chief, Tecumseh,
the brother of the prophet, who for the two last years has carried on, contrary to our remonstrances,
an active war against the United States. A more sagacious or a more gallant warrior does not,
I believe, exist. He was the admiration of every one who conversed with him. From a life of
dissipation he has not only become in every respect abstemious, but he has likewise prevailed
on all his nation, and many of the other tribes, to follow his example." His son, and aide-de-camp
at Detroit, Captain Hull, was killed in July, 1814, in the hard-fought battle near the Falls
of Niagara.

Major-General Brock's services throughout this short campaign, closed by an achievement which
his energy and decision crowned with such unqualified success, were highly appreciated by the
government at home, and were immediately rewarded with the order of the bath, which was then
confined to one degree of knighthood only. He was gazetted to this mark of his country's approbation,
so gratifying to the feelings of a soldier, on the 10th of October; but he lived not long enough
to learn that he had obtained so honorable a distinction, the knowledge of which would have
cheered him in his last moments. Singularly enough his dispatches, accompanied by the colours
of the U.S. 4th regiment, reached London early on the morning of the 6th of October, the anniversary
of his birth. His brother William, who was residing in the vicinity, was asked by his wife
why the park and tower guns were saluting. "For Isaac, of course," he replied; "do you not
know that this is his birth-day?" And when he came to town he learnt, with emotions which may
be easily conceived, that what he had just said in jest was true in reality; little thinking,
however, that all his dreams, all his anticipations of a beloved brother's increasing fame
and prosperity would that day week, one short week, be entombed

    "Where Niagara stuns with thundering sound."

      *      *      *      *      *

In one of his letters to his brothers, (page 63,) Major-General Brock said that he had visited
Detroit, the neighbourhood of which was a delightful country, far exceeding any thing he had
seen on that continent, and a cursory description of it, as it appeared in 1812, may prove
interesting.

The Detroit river, which connects Lake St. Clair and Lake Erie, extends from about latitude
41° 48' to 42° 18' north, and divides that part of Canada from the United States. Possessing
a salubrious climate, a productive soil, and a water communication with the upper and lower
lakes and the river St. Lawrence, we can scarcely conceive any thing more favorable than the
geographical position of the adjacent country. Michigan afforded a rich field for "fowling"
and fishing, and its forests were plentifully supplied with various kinds of game. It was the
opinion of a former governor of Upper Canada, Simcoe, that the peninsula of that province formed
by Lakes Huron, St. Clair, Erie, Ontario, Rice, and Simcoe, would alone furnish a surplus of
wheat sufficient for the wants of Great Britain. The banks of the Detroit were in many places
thickly peopled and in a fair state of cultivation. The inhabitants on the Canadian side were
chiefly of French origin, who began to occupy the country when Canada was still under the dominion
of France. They still retained that urbanity of manners which distinguishes them from the peasantry
of most countries. Further back, the country was settled principally by Americans, partial
to the United States. Three or four years after the war, the houses were so numerous and so
close together upon the banks of the Detroit, that there was an appearance of a succession
of villages for more than ten miles. The farms were very narrow in front, extending a long
way back, and were allotted in this awkward and inconvenient form, that their respective occupants
might be able to render each other assistance when attacked by the Indians, who were at one
time very numerous and troublesome in this vicinity.

The banks of the river Detroit are the Eden of Upper Canada, in so far as regards the production
of fruit. Apples, pears, plums, peaches, grapes, and nectarines, attain the highest degree
of perfection, and exceed in size, beauty, and flavour, those raised in any other part of the
province. Cider abounds at the table of the meanest peasant, and there is scarcely a farm that
has not a fruitful orchard attached to it. This fineness of the fruit is one consequence of
the amelioration of climate, which takes place in the vicinity of the Detroit river and Lake
St. Clair. The seasons there are much milder and more serene than they are a few hundred miles
below, and the weather is likewise drier and less variable. Comparatively little snow falls
during the winter, although the cold is often sufficiently intense to freeze over the Detroit
river so strongly, that persons, horses, and even loaded sleighs, cross it with ease and safety.
In summer, the country presents a forest of blossoms, which exhale the most delicious odours;
a cloud seldom obscures the sky; while the lakes and rivers, which extend in every direction,
communicate a reviving freshness to the air, and moderate the warmth of a dazzling sun; and
the clearness and elasticity of the atmosphere render it equally healthy and exhilarating.[76]

