The lad trembled with excitement, and a flush of joy spread over his face. He could hardly
believe his ears. "One, two, three," he hurriedly counted, "four, five, six." On he counted,
up to twenty eggs chipped or cracked. One chicken was half out of its shell, and one, quite
independent, was scrambling over the rest of the eggs.

August held his breath and looked at them as long as he dared to keep the incubator open. Then
softly closing the lid, he rushed down stairs.

"Hurrah! Hurrah!" he shouted at the door of his mother's room. "They're hatching, mamma! They're
hatching!"

"Are they, really?" asked mamma, pleased enough, and she hurried up the stairs, closely followed
by the children, whom August's joyful cry had aroused from their sleep. In great excitement
they clustered around the barrel.

"Oh! what a cunning, fluffy one!" cried little Katie, as she spied the oldest chick.

"But what is the matter with that other one?" asked Tommy.

"He has just left the shell and is not dry yet," August explained. "As soon as he is dry he
will be downy like the other."

"Hear em say 'peep! peep!'" cried little Robbie, grasping the edge of the barrel with both
hands, and stretching his short legs to their utmost extent in order to get his eyes high enough
to look over the edge.

"What lots are cracked!" said Tommy. "Oh! August, here is one cracked all round."

"Yes," said August, "that chick will soon be out." Even as he spoke the shell parted, and a
third little bright-eyed chicken struggled out and looked about in amazement.

The children could have watched them much longer with great interest, but mamma was afraid
the incubator would get too cool, and she advised August to cover it.

"How do they do it, mamma?" asked Katie.

"The little chick is packed very wonderfully in his shell," said mamma. "His head under his
wing, legs folded up with the feet toward the head, his bill coming out from under one wing.
This bill is furnished with a little hard point on the top. When he is ready to crack the shell
and come out, he begins to move. He turns his whole body slowly round, cracking the shell as
he goes, by pressing with his whole force against it, the hard, sharp point on the top of his
bill coming next the shell. When he is a few days old this hard point drops off. Just before
he hatches, after the egg is cracked all around, he frees his head from his wing and struggles
to stretch himself. Then the shell parts and he gets his head out, and presently his legs,
one after the other. I forgot to say that just before hatching he gradually absorbs the yolk
of the egg into his body, and that nourishes him for twenty-four hours after hatching."

"It's very curious, isn't it?" said Tommy.

"I didn't know anything but hens or ducks could hatch eggs," said Katie.

"Why, Katie!" exclaimed August, "there is a place at Canton, in China, where thousands of ducks'
eggs are hatched artificially every day. There are twenty-eight rooms to the establishment,
and all along the sides of these rooms are rows of sliding trays filled with eggs. These eggs
are put in the first room the first day; on the second day they are moved to the second room;
and so on, until they hatch in the last room. The heat is graduated, the last rooms being cooler
than the first. All these eggs are hatched by the heat of the rooms."

"If they hatch thousands every day," asked Tommy, "what do they do with the little ducks?"

"They hatch them for the people in the neighboring towns," replied August. "The Chinese are
very fond of ducks and ducks' eggs. A gentleman who has been to Canton, and seen the hatching-rooms,
told me he had seen people take eggs there to be hatched. They would pay for the hatching and
then one of the men in charge of the rooms would count their eggs, and give them just as many
little ducklings."

"I guess they don't have accidents there, then," said Katie.

"I won't have accidents always," August replied.

"But what do they do with so many ducks?" asked Tommy.

"Why, half the poor Chinese people near the coast live on the water all the time in boats that
are half houses. Of course they could not keep hens, but they can keep ducks and they do."

"Oh, yes!" cried Tommy. "I 'member how papa told about seeing them fed and called into the
boats. He said every flock knew its own call, and would go scuttling through the water to the
right boat. He thought they were in this d'edful hurry, cause the last one got whipped."

"What shall I do about school, mamma?" August asked.

"Oh! go, and recite your most important lessons," she answered wisely. "I will take care of
the eggs and chickens till you return."

It was just as well for August to be occupied, since the hatching, although it went on surely,
was slow work.

With great faith in his incubator, August had previously built a little yard for the expected
chickens.

It was in box form, about eight feet long and two feet wide. In the center was a feeding-tray
and water tank, and at one end a hover. This hover (H) was

lined with soft fur loosely tacked to the top and sides and hanging down the front in narrow
strips to form a curtain. It sloped from the front to the back. The water tank was a stout
earthen bottle in a saucer; a small hole near the bottom of the bottle let the water, drop
by drop, into the saucer, so that as the chickens drank, the supply in the saucer was continually
freshening. The bottom of the yard was covered with gravel three inches deep. This neat yard
was now waiting down stairs in a sunny shed room to receive the chickens.

August went to school, and on his way home called for his grandmother to go up to the house
to dinner.

Grandma knew that it was just three weeks since August had taken the last eggs, and that twenty-one
days was the time allotted by nature for the bringing forth of chickens, so she shrewdly suspected
what she would find; but it had not occurred to her that she would find chickens alive without
the aid of a hen.

"Grandma," asked August, as they walked along "when you set a hen on thirteen eggs, how many
do you expect will hatch?"

"I hope for all," she replied, "but I seldom get all. I think ten out of thirteen is a very
good proportion."

"My incubator beats your hens!" thought August.

When they reached the house he took her straight to the attic.

"Well, I never!" she exclaimed. "So that is your secret, August! Well, I declare! And it really
hatches the eggs, doesn't it? I always knew, child, that you would invent something wonderful."

"I didn't invent much," he said modestly. "In 1750, Réaumur, the French naturalist, gave an
account of his experiments in hatching eggs in barrels set in hot-beds of horse-manure; and
the Chinese and the Egyptians have hatched them for ages in ovens."

"But this is by hot water and lamps," said Grandma.

"Yes," said August, "I never saw an incubator before I made this; but, Grandma, I had read
of them made on the same principle."

"At any rate," said Grandma, "I think that you deserve great credit for patience and ingenuity."

By evening thirty chickens were hatched from the thirty-six eggs. The other six gave no signs
of life. By Grandma's advice they were left in the incubator "to give them a chance," but they
never hatched.

The next morning all the members of the family took the chickens down-stairs, even Robbie,
who took two in a basket, and deposited them in their new home.

Then their food was prepared, the yolks of hard-boiled eggs crumbled up fine, bread crumbs,
milk, and a little fine cracked corn. After a few days they could be fed almost entirely upon
the cracked corn.

The whole family then stood around the yard admiring the brood, thirty little, bright-eyed,
yellow, fluffy balls. They soon learned to eat and to drink, and were busy, happy little creatures.
They would run under the hover when they wanted warmth or quiet, just as naturally as they
would have run under a mother hen. The box was built on castors, and could be rolled from window
to window, and thus kept in the sunlight, in which the little creatures reveled; and at night
it could be pushed near the stove. Of course August had to renew the gravel very often, and
he was very particular to keep the food dishes sweet and clean. When the weather grew warm
enough the yard was rolled into an open shed, and they could run out of doors.

These chickens were considered very wonderful, and many visitors came to see them. They grew
fast and were as tame as kittens. Day after day the children came to feed the pretty pets,
bringing them young clover tops and tender grass. Katie treated them with her birds' canary
and hemp seed. Robbie gave them bits of his cookies and cakes. Anything that the children liked
to eat, these little chickens liked also; and when they heard the little boots coming towards
them they would perch on the edge of their yard and chirp and peep and coax for their dainties.

By and by their wings began to grow and the fluffy down was changed to feathers. Grandma said
that now they must have meat occasionally, chopped up fine, and they had it Wednesdays and
Saturdays.

The little creatures were frantic for the meat. They would fly upon August, and, if they could
get there, into the dish, which they more than once overturned.

When their plumage was well out they were handsome fowls. August built a large coop and out-door
yard for them, but they were not often confined in it, for the children loved to have them
about with them, and watched them as carefully as a hen mother could have done; and great was
the joy of Katie and Robbie as they ran to their mother to report the first crowing of the
little cockerels.

When last I saw them they were well grown. The pullets, August proudly informed me, were laying.

It was the glorious Fourth. Torpedoes were the order of the day, and Katie and Robbie were
amusing themselves by throwing the snappers in all directions, and seeing their feathered pets
run to eat what they could never find. The other fowls, disturbed by the noise of the day,
preferred to keep hidden away in their houses, but these liked to keep about with the children
and see the fun.

August began his experiments when some of my young readers were quite little children. He has
continued them through several seasons, until now, after much study and patient industry, he
has enlarged and greatly improved his incubator. He has changed its form entirely, and has
attached an electric apparatus which regulates the heat, and avoids all danger from smoke.
He has applied for a patent, and has made arrangements for taking care of a large number of
chickens as early as February, being still greatly interested in this successful "'speriment."

-----

  [A] Fahrenheit and Réaumur were both inventors of thermometers.
      Those commonly in use are Fahrenheit's.

THE BIRDS OF WINTER.

It seems strange that any birds should stay with us during the cold and frost when there is
so much food which they like in the southern part of our country. Men of science wonder why
they do remain here, and are unable to account for it. Perhaps it is because it is the true
home of these birds which remain, and they prefer to search long and diligently for their scanty
food, and bear the cold and the winds and the frost, rather than leave it. This is as we should
do, and doubtless the birds that stay through the winter love their homes just as much--as
a bird possibly can.

Of course everybody,--that is, everybody except the tiniest, wee baby, has seen the winter
birds, some of them; at least the Chickadees, the Snow-birds, and Downy Woodpeckers, and Bluejays
and Shore larks. But are you acquainted with the little fellows? Do you know where and how
they live, and what they eat, and of their habits and songs?

A great favorite of mine is the Chickadee, with his black cap and white shirt bosom. This active
little gentleman is the most social and friendly of them all. If out in the country, this little
fellow in company with his mates will twitter gaily at sight of you, every now and then looking
curiously at you as if asking, "And who are you, sir?" or "Who are you, ma'am?" and pecking
his way gradually nearer and nearer will inspect you in the quaintest and merriest way. Afraid!
O no, not they. Mr. Samuels, a writer about birds, says that he once had an inquisitive little
Chickadee perch on the end of his boot and sit there watching him inquiringly. They have even
been known to feed from the open hand. If you will daily scatter some crumbs for them before
the door, or upon the window-sill, you will learn for yourselves how neighborly they are.

Still the Chickadees are strangely tender, needing a warm, cosy nest to shield their little
bodies. They cannot make their nests on the limbs of trees. Oh, no, that wouldn't do, for the
first thing they knew the wind would blow, blow, and down would come their home. So they hunt
around in the woods or along the rails and posts, for the nests in the wood that have been
deserted by the woodpecker, who has flown away to a milder clime. If the Chickadees can not
find these, they set to work themselves and with great labor dig a hole in a tree, or post,
for their winter quarters. They prefer decayed trunks or posts so they can work more easily.
To the bottom of their holes they bring pieces of wool, moss, and feathers or hair, and weave
warm carpets and curtains to make cosy their little homes.

The Chickadees are very active, lively little things. They are always in motion; now hopping
along in search of food, sending forth the peculiar cry that gives them their name, and then
alighting on the tree limbs and moving from one tree to another "traversing," as Wilson, a
great authority on birds, says, "the woods in regular procession from tree to tree, and in
this manner traveling several miles a day." They are very strong for their size, and will hang
below a limb supported by their claws, with their head downwards, which we should think would
make them dizzy, but it does not seem to.

These little roamers of our roads and woods are so genial, companionable and social, that not
only do we enjoy their society, but other birds are enchanted with them and seek their company.
The Chickadees do not object. And so Brown Creepers, Nuthatches, Downy Woodpeckers, and other
birds, often join them in their merry rambles and scrambles. They feed mostly on very small
insects and eggs, such as infest the bark of trees, but will eat almost anything offered them;
even meat they will peck from a bone.

Pleasant, indeed, in the midst of winter is this little bird's cry:

"Chick-a-dee-dee-dee! Chick-a-dee-dee-dee!"

Pleasant his sharp whistle:

"Pe-wee! Pe-wee! Pe-wee!"

How much we should miss these amiable favorites should they ever take a notion to desert us!
They stay with us throughout the year, but in summer they are shyer than in winter for they
rear their young then. It is not until their family cares are over in the autumn, that they
gather in small flocks and resume their merry life and social ways.

Another very interesting and neighborly winter bird is our familiar Snow-bird, often called
the "Black Snow-bird" to distinguish it from the Snow Bunting or "White Snow-bird."

These tiny birds visit us from the north. Their journeys extend over the whole breadth of the
United States. They appear here in the latter part of October, and are first seen among the
decaying leaves near the borders of the woods, in flocks of about thirty. If molested, they
at once fly to the trees. As the weather becomes colder they approach nearer the farm-houses
and towns.

They are real weather prophets. When a storm is near at hand they gather together in large
flocks, and work very, very diligently in search of food,--doubtless making provision for the
time of wind and storm when they can get none.

But it is after the snow-storms, when the ground is white with the downy flakes, that the Snow-birds
become the most friendly. How pleasant it is then to see them gather about the house, and around
the barn and out-houses, to search for edibles. Not only then do they appear in the country-places,
but even in the crowded city their little forms may be seen in multitudes, on the snowy streets
and in the windows.

They build their nests near the ground, often on a stump or log, or in a deep thicket, in such
a manner as to be shielded from the wind and storms. They construct their homes from bits of
fine grasses and leaves, and it is interesting to observe what wonderful architects they are.

The Snow-birds, I am sorry to say, though friendly with us are not, like the little Chickadees,
peaceful among themselves. They are often very quarrelsome, and will peck at each other in
a way that little birds should not. Perhaps they "make up" with one another and are good friends
again. I hope so.

The Snow-birds are very nimble on the ground, and, I guess, can eat faster and more for their
size than any other winter bird. It is a very funny sight to see them scratch away the snow
with their tiny feet to get their food, which, when insects and eggs are not to be had, is
the seeds of many kinds of weeds that still rise above the snow, and along the border of the roads.

Sometimes, perhaps, you have come upon a dead Snow-bird in the morning following a cold night,
and perhaps have wondered if the poor little creature froze to death, and why he did not die
at home. But the Snow-birds are sometimes affected with a dizziness or faintness which makes
them fall from the limbs, or during their flight. What makes them dizzy or faint, we do not
know; not from hanging head downwards like the little Chickadees, surely. But they often, alas!
come to their death through this affection.

The snow-birds have a peculiar cry of "Chuck! chuck!"--and another of "Chit, chit-a-sit!" which
however, they seldom utter except when taking flight. They stay with us until about the 29th
of April, when they wing away to the north or to the higher ranges of our mountains.

Somewhat similar to the Snow-birds are the Snow Buntings or "White Snow-birds." They appear
every winter in large flocks, often of many thousands. They are sometimes called "bad weather
birds," from the fact of their moving to the northward during fine weather and to the southward
on the advent of deep snow-storms. They are much shyer than either the Chickadees or Snow-birds;
but they are often seen on the roadsides and in the lanes searching for the seeds of weeds
that grow there. On the sea-shore, which they greatly frequent, they live on small shellfish.
It is curious that the greater the snow and the colder the weather of winter, the whiter do
the Snow-Buntings appear.

They are very swift flyers, and often in flocks of great numbers seem to be a cloud of snow-flakes
driven before a storm. They make their nests in the fissures of the rocks, forming from grass,
and feathers, and the down of the Arctic fox, a very cosey home. They frequent the roads and
lanes in the vicinity of Boston, and their white forms and busy beaks can be seen throughout
the winter season.

They have peculiar notes like a clear whistle, and a "chirr, chirr!" which they utter when flying.

A very fine little bird quite common in this State in the winter season, is the Brown Creeper,
with its showy brown and white coat. These active little creatures are great lovers of the
woods and pass their lives among the trees.

Unlike the Chickadees and Nuthatches, who also are partial to the woods, they very rarely descend
to the ground to either hop about or hunt for food. Nor do they, like the two former birds,
ever hang to a limb with their heads downward.

Still the Brown Creeper seems to be constantly in activity, and hunts most diligently for the
insects it feeds upon. This it does somewhat in the manner of the Woodpecker, by clinging to
the trunks or branches of trees, supporting itself by its stiff tail-feathers and thus moving
about quite securely.

They are very methodical. They strive to get every insect from a tree that there is on it,
before leaving for another. So they generally alight near the foot of a tree and gradually
climb to the top; an insect must be very, very small to escape their piercing gaze.

They often work around a tree in spirals, and so are at times lost to the sight of an observer
of their ways; and if the watcher runs around to the other side of the tree, very likely by
the time he gets there, lo! they are back to the former side.

But they are not at all shy, and though not as neighborly and social as the Chickadee, or Snow-bird,
still they will not fly away from the presence of unmolesting persons.

The Brown Creeper has not the bill suitable to excavate a hole for himself, so he is obliged
to find a hollow trunk, a squirrel's nest, or a deserted Woodpecker's home. Here the little
bird builds a nest of dry twigs and lays its pretty eggs.

As the mid-winter cold deepens they retire to the depths of the woods, or into the brown and
sheltered thickets, where their little cry of "Chip, chip," and "Cree, cree, cree," may be
frequently heard; and very pleasant it is, too. Very useful they are, these little Brown Creepers,
as well as the Chickadees and Nuthatches, for they help preserve our beautiful trees and shrubbery
from the destroying worms and insects.

I have mentioned the Nuthatches. These birds, a little larger than the others before noticed,
are not so numerous as the Chickadees and Snow-birds, but they are very interesting. The name
of Nuthatches was given to them long ago, because it was supposed they broke the wood nuts
by repeated hatchings or hammerings with their bills. But now men of science, who study birds,
do not think that is true, and believe the Nuthatches to be wrongly named.

It was also thought that the Nuthatches, like the squirrels, lay up in the summer a store of
nuts for their winter use. But this also is doubted, since the Nuthatch will climb along the
trees and limbs in search of insects and larvæ when the tree hangs full of nuts. So it is thought
their principal food is composed of ants, seeds of various shrubbery, bugs and insects.

While the female bird is sitting on her eggs, the male Nuthatch displays a great deal of care
and affection, supplying her regularly with the choicest food he can collect. With this he
flies away to the mouth of the hole where they have established their home, and calls to her
so tenderly, offering her the delicacy he has brought. He seems to call to her sometimes, simply
to inquire how she is, and to soothe her labors with his incessant chatter. Seldom does he
venture far from the nest, and if any danger threatens he instantly flies back to alarm her.

The white-breasted Nuthatch is known by his cry of "quank, quank," repeated frequently as he
keeps moving along the branches of a tree, piercing the bark with his bill and breaking off
pieces in search of insects and their larvæ.

This affectionate bird, like the little Chickadees, rests and roosts with his head downwards;
and also like them, is very curious and inquiring. If you are in sight, he will gradually make
his way to you and reconnoitre your appearance, as if he would learn who you are.

There is also another bird of this species called the red-breasted Nuthatch, who is seen in
New England, in winter, and who leads a similar life to his white-breasted relative.

Though most of the many species of Woodpeckers leave us on the advent of cold weather, still
there are some that remain. My little readers, I am certain, have nearly all seen the round
homes of the Woodpecker. You may observe them in almost any wood. They are about alike except
in size and situation. A round hole in a tree or post is all you will see from a distance;
but if you can climb,--for their holes are usually more than six feet from the ground,--you
may look down into the deep home itself.

How much patience and perseverance they must have to dig, bit by bit, such straight deep nests.
These holes are seldom lined with any thing, but are generally enlarged at the bottom so as
to give the family more "elbow room."

The one we know best in winter is the Downy Woodpecker, the prettiest and smallest of the tribe.
It builds its nest in various trees, preferring the apple-tree, poplar and birches. Its hole
is smaller than those of other woodpeckers because, I suppose, the bird itself is so much smaller
that he can do with less room.

The Downy Woodpeckers are very sociable; and although they themselves are not gregarious, you
may often see them followed by Chickadees, Creepers, Nuthatches and Wrens, whose company they
appear to be pleased with.

They are not shy of man, but, unlike most of their tribe, haunt roadsides, orchards, and grounds
about houses and out-buildings, which they prefer to the deep forests. They are generally seen
in pairs, and are very active little birdies. In searching for food, insects and eggs, they
move from tree to tree and thus pass the day. They rarely alight on the ground. Their ordinary
cry is a "Chick, chick," repeated rapidly.

A somewhat larger Woodpecker, called the Hairy Woodpecker, is also an inhabitant of our woods
in winter and much like the Downy Woodpecker in habits.

These are the principal and most common of our winter birds. There are some others sometimes
seen, such as the Tree-Sparrow, Blue-Jay and Golden Crowned Wren, but space forbids an account
of their ways and songs. I hope what I have told you of the winter birds will induce you to
study and observe more closely their almost human ways.

SOMETHING ABOUT LIGHT-HOUSES.

You have all heard of the Seven Wonders of the World; did you know that two of these wonders
were veritable Light-houses?

About 300 B. C., Cheres, the disciple of Lysippus, cast the famous brazen Colossus of Rhodes,
a statue of the Sun God Apollo, and erected it at the entrance of the harbor where it was used
as a Light-house, the flames which crowned the head of the Sun God by night serving to guide
wandering barks into his Rhodian waters.

For eighty years its hundred brazen feet towered superbly above port and town, and then it
was partly destroyed by an earthquake. For nearly a thousand years the sacred image remained
unmolested where it had fallen, by Greek and Roman, Pagan and Christian; but at last the Saracen
owners of Rhodes, caring as little for its religious association as for its classic antiquity,
sold the brass of it for the great sum of £36.000, to the Jewish merchants of Edessa.

Just about the time that the Colossus was set astride the Rhodian harbor, King Ptolemy Philadelphus
caused a noble tower of superb white stone, four hundred feet high, to be erected by an architect
named Sostrasius, son of Dixiphanes, at the entrance to the port of Alexandria, which was a
bran-new busy city in those days, a mere mushroom growth in that old, old Egypt, where the
upstart Ptolomies were reigning on the throne of the Pharaohs.

