The ship landed gently upon the summit, the occupants half expecting to see the ground disappear
before their eyes. Nothing happened, however, and they disembarked, finding walking somewhat
difficult because of the great mass of the planet. Looking around, they could see no sign of
life, but they felt a presence near them--a vast, invisible something.

Suddenly, out of the air in front of Seaton, a man materialized: a man identical with him in
every feature and detail, even to the smudge of grease under one eye, the small wrinkles in
his heavy blue serge suit, and the emblem of the American Chemical Society upon his watch-fob.

"Hello, folks," the stranger began in Seaton's characteristic careless speech. "I see you're
surprised at my knowing your language. You're a very inferior race of animals--don't even understand
telepathy, don't understand the luminiferous ether, or the relation between time and space.
Your greatest things, such as the Skylark and your object-compass, are merely toys."

Changing instantly from Seaton's form to that of Dorothy, likewise a perfect imitation, the
stranger continued without a break:

"Atoms and electrons and things, spinning and whirling in their dizzy little orbits...." It
broke off abruptly, continuing in the form of DuQuesne:

"Couldn't make myself clear as Miss Vaneman--not a scientific convolution in her foolish little
brain. You are a freer type, DuQuesne, unhampered by foolish, soft fancies. But you are very
clumsy, although working fairly well with your poor tools--Brookings and his organization,
the Perkins Café and its clumsy wireless telephones. All of you are extremely low in the scale.
Such animals have not been known in our universe for ten million years, which is as far back
as I can remember. You have millions of years to go before you will amount to anything; before
you will even rise above death and its attendant necessity, sex."

The strange being then assumed form after form with bewildering rapidity, while the spectators
stared in dumb astonishment. In rapid succession it took on the likeness of each member of
the party, of the vessel itself, of the watch in Seaton's pocket--reappearing as Seaton.

"Well, bunch," it said in a matter-of-fact voice, "there's no mental exercise in you and you're
such a low form of life that you're of no use on this planet; so I'll dematerialize you."

       *       *       *       *       *

A peculiar light came into its eyes as they stared intently into Seaton's, and he felt his
senses reel under the impact of an awful mental force, but he fought back with all his power
and remained standing.

"What's this?" the stranger demanded in surprise, "This is the first time in history that mere
matter--which is only a manifestation of mind--has ever refused to obey mind. There's a screw
loose somewhere."

"I must reason this out," it continued analytically, changing instantaneously into Crane's
likeness. "Ah! I am not a perfect reproduction. This is the first matter I have ever encountered
that I could not reproduce perfectly. There is some subtle difference. The external form is
the same, the organic structure likewise. The molecules of substance are arranged as they should
be, as are also the atoms in the molecule. The electrons in the atom--ah! There is the difficulty.
The arrangement and number of electrons, as well as positive charges, are entirely different
from what I had supposed. I must derive the formula."

"Let's go, folks!" said Seaton hastily, drawing Dorothy back toward the Skylark. "This dematerialization
stunt may be play for him, but I don't want any of it in my family."

"No, you really must stay," remonstrated the stranger. "Much as it is against my principles
to employ brute force, you must stay and be properly dematerialized, alive or dead. Science
demands it."

As he spoke, he started to draw his automatic pistol. Being in Crane's form, he drew slowly,
as Crane did; and Seaton, with the dexterity of much sleight-of-hand work and of years of familiarity
with his weapon, drew and fired in one incredibly rapid movement, before the other had withdrawn
the pistol from his pocket. The X-plosive shell completely volatilized the stranger and hurled
the party backward toward the Skylark, into which they fled hastily. As Crane, the last one
to enter the vessel, fired his pistol and closed the massive door, Seaton leaped to the levers.
As he did so, he saw a creature materialize in the air of the vessel and fall to the floor
with a crash as he threw on the power. It was a frightful thing, like nothing ever before seen
upon any world; with great teeth, long, sharp claws, and an automatic pistol clutched firmly
in a human hand. Forced flat by the terrific acceleration of the vessel, it was unable to lift
either itself or the weapon, and lay helpless.

"We take one trick, anyway!" blazed Seaton, as he threw on the power of the attractor and diffused
its force into a screen over the party, so that the enemy could not materialize in the air
above them and crush them by mere weight. "As pure mental force, you're entirely out of my
class, but when you come down to matter, which I can understand, I'll give you a run for your
money until my angles catch fire."

"That is a childish defiance. It speaks well for your courage, but ill for your intelligence,"
the animal said, and vanished.

A moment later Seaton's hair almost stood on end as he saw an automatic pistol appear upon
the board directly in front of him, clamped to it by bands of steel. Paralyzed by this unlooked-for
demonstration of the mastery of mind over matter, unable to move a muscle, he lay helpless,
staring at the engine of death in front of him. Although the whole proceeding occupied only
a fraction of a second, it seemed to Seaton as though he watched the weapon for hours. As the
sleeve drew back, cocking the pistol and throwing a cartridge into the chamber, the trigger
moved, and the hammer descended to speed on its way the bullet which was to blot out his life.
There was a sharp click as the hammer fell--Seaton was surprised to find himself still alive
until a voice spoke, apparently from the muzzle of the pistol, with the harsh sound of a metallic
diaphragm.

"I was almost certain that it wouldn't explode," the stranger said, chattily. "You see, I haven't
derived that formula yet, so I couldn't make a real explosive. I could of course, materialize
beside you, under your protective screen, and crush you in a vise. I could materialize as a
man of metal, able to stand up under this acceleration, and do you to death. I could even,
by a sufficient expenditure of mental energy, materialize a planet around your ship and crush
it. However, these crude methods are distasteful in the extreme, especially since you have
already given me some slight and unexpected mental exercise. In return, I shall give you one
chance for your lives. I cannot dematerialize either you or your vessel until I work out the
formula for your peculiar atomic structure. If I can derive the formula before you reach the
boundaries of my home-space, beyond which I cannot go, I shall let you go free. Deriving the
formula will be a neat little problem. It should be fairly easy, as it involves only a simple
integration in ninety-seven dimensions."

       *       *       *       *       *

Silence ensued, and Seaton advanced his lever to the limit of his ability to retain consciousness.
Almost overcome by the horror of their position, in an agony of suspense, expecting every instant
to be hurled into nothingness, he battled on, with no thought of yielding, even in the face
of those overwhelming mental odds.

"You can't do it, old top," he thought savagely, concentrating all the power of his highly-trained
mind against the intellectual monster. "You can't dematerialize us, and you can't integrate
above ninety-five dimensions to save your neck. You can't do it--you're slipping--you're all
balled up right now!"

For more than an hour the silent battle raged, during which time the Skylark flew millions
upon millions of miles toward Earth. Finally the stranger spoke again.

"You three win," it said abruptly. In answer to the unspoken surprise of all three men it went
on: "Yes, all three of you got the same idea and Crane even forced his body to retain consciousness
to fight me. Your efforts were very feeble, of course, but were enough to interrupt my calculations
at a delicate stage, every time. You are a low form of life, undoubtedly, but with more mentality
than I supposed at first. I could get that formula, of course, in spite of you, if I had time,
but we are rapidly approaching the limits of my territory, outside of which even I could not
think my way back. That is one thing in which your mechanical devices are superior to anything
my own race developed before we became pure intellectuals. They point the way back to your
Earth, which is so far away that even my mentality cannot grasp the meaning of the distance.
I can understand the Earth, can visualize it from your minds, but I cannot project myself any
nearer to it than we are at present. Before I leave you, I will say that you have conferred
a real favor upon me--you have given me something to think about for thousands of cycles to
come. Good-bye."

Assured that their visitor had really gone, Seaton reduced the power to that of gravity and
Dorothy soon sat up, Margaret reviving more slowly.

"Dick," said Dorothy solemnly, "did that happen or have I been unconscious and just had a nightmare?"

"It happened, all right," returned her lover, wiping his brow in relief. "See that pistol clamped
upon the top of the board? That's a token in remembrance of him."

Dorothy, though she had been only half conscious, had heard the words of the stranger. As she
looked at the faces of the men, white and drawn with the mental struggle, she realized what
they had gone through, and she drew Seaton down into one of the seats, stroking his hair tenderly.

Margaret went to her room immediately, and as she did not return, Dorothy followed. She came
back presently with a look of concern upon her face.

"This life is a little hard on Peggy. I didn't realize how much harder for her it would be
than it is for me until I went in there and found her crying. It is much harder for her, of
course, since I am with you, Dick, and with you, Martin, whom I know so well. She must feel
terribly alone."

"Why should she?" demanded Seaton. "We think she's some game little guy. Why, she's one of
the bunch! She must know that!"

"Well, it isn't the same," insisted Dorothy. "You be extra nice to her, Dick. But don't you
dare let her know I told you about the tears, or she'd eat me alive!"

Crane said nothing--a not unusual occurrence--but his face grew thoughtful and his manner,
when Margaret appeared at mealtime, was more solicitous than usual and more than brotherly
in its tenderness.

"I shall be an interstellar diplomat," Dorothy whispered to Seaton as soon as they were alone.
"Wasn't that a beautiful bee I put upon Martin?"

Seaton stared at her a moment, then shook her gently before he took her into his arms.

       *       *       *       *       *

The information, however, did not prevent him from calling to Crane a few minutes later, even
though he was still deep in conversation with Margaret. Dorothy gave him an exasperated glance
and walked away.

"I sure pulled a boner that time," Seaton muttered as he plucked at his hair ruefully. "It
nearly did us.

"Let's test this stuff out and see if it's X, Mart, while DuQuesne's out of the way. If it
is X, it's SOME find!"

Seaton cut off a bit of metal with his knife, hammered it into a small piece of copper, and
threw the copper into the power-chamber, out of contact with the plating. As the metal received
the current the vessel started slightly.

"It is X! Mart, we've got enough of this stuff to supply three worlds!"

"Better put it away somewhere," suggested Crane, and after the metal had been removed to Seaton's
cabin, the two men again sought a landing-place. Almost in their line of flight they saw a
close cluster of stars, each emitting a peculiar greenish light which, in the spectroscope,
revealed a blaze of copper lines.

"That's our meat, Martin. We ought to be able to grab some copper in that system, where there's
so much of it that it colors their sunlight."

"The copper is undoubtedly there, but it might be too dangerous to get so close to so many
suns. We may have trouble getting away."

"Well, our copper's getting horribly low. We've got to find some pretty quick, somewhere, or
else walk back home, and there's our best chance. We'll feel our way along. If it gets too
strong, we'll beat it."

When they had approached so close that the suns were great stars widely spaced in the heavens,
Crane relinquished the controls to Seaton.

"If you will take the lever awhile, Dick, Margaret and I will go downstairs and see if we can
locate a planet."

After a glance through the telescope, Crane knew that they were still too far from the group
of suns to place any planet with certainty, and began taking notes. His mind was not upon his
work, however, but was completely filled with thoughts of the girl at his side. The intervals
between his comments became longer and longer until they were standing in silence, both staring
with unseeing eyes out into the trackless void. But it was in no sense their usual companionable
silence. Crane was fighting back the words he longed to say. This lovely girl was not here
of her own accord--she had been torn forcibly from her home and from her friends, and he would
not, could not, make her already difficult position even more unpleasant by forcing his attentions
upon her. Margaret sensed something unusual and significant in his attitude and held herself
tense, her heart beating wildly.

At that moment an asteroid came within range of the Skylark's watchful repeller, and at the
lurch of the vessel, as it swung around the obstruction, Margaret would have fallen had not
Crane instinctively caught her with one arm. Ordinarily this bit of courtesy would have gone
unnoticed by both, as it had happened many times before, but in that heavily-charged atmosphere
it took on a new significance. Both blushed hotly, and as their eyes met each saw that which
held them spellbound. Slowly, almost as if without volition, Crane put his other arm around
her. A wave of deeper crimson swept over her face and she bent her handsome head as her slender
body yielded to his arms with no effort to free itself. Finally Crane spoke, his usually even
voice faltering.

"Margaret, I hope you will not think this unfair of me ... but we have been through so much
together that I feel as though we had known each other forever. Until we went through this
last experience I had intended to wait--but why should we wait? Life is not lived in years
alone, and you know how much I love you, my dearest!" he finished, passionately.

Her arms crept up around his neck, her bowed head lifted, and her eyes looked deep into his
as she whispered her answer:

"I think I do ... Oh, Martin!"

Presently they made their way back to the engine-room, keeping the singing joy in their hearts
inaudible and the kisses fresh upon their lips invisible. They might have kept their secret
for a time, had not Seaton promptly asked:

"Well, what did you find, Mart?"

A panicky look appeared upon Crane's self-possessed countenance and Margaret's fair face glowed
like a peony.

"Yes, what did you find?" demanded Dorothy, as she noticed their confusion.

"My future wife," Crane answered steadily.

The two girls rushed into each other's arms and the two men silently gripped hands in a clasp
of steel; for each of the four knew that these two unions were not passing fancies, lightly
entered into and as lightly cast aside, but were true partnerships which would endure throughout
the entire span of life.

       *       *       *       *       *

A planet was located and the Skylark flew toward it. Discovering that it was apparently situated
in the center of the cluster of suns, they hesitated; but finding that there was no dangerous
force present, they kept on. As they drew nearer, so that the planet appeared as a very small
moon, they saw that the Skylark was in a blaze of green light, and looking out of the windows,
Crane counted seventeen great suns, scattered in all directions in the sky! Slowing down abruptly
as the planet was approached, Seaton dropped the vessel slowly through the atmosphere, while
Crane and DuQuesne tested and analyzed it.

"Pressure, thirty pounds per square inch. Surface gravity as compared to that of the Earth,
two-fifths. Air-pressure about double that of the Earth, while a five-pound weight weighs only
two pounds. A peculiar combination," reported Crane, and DuQuesne added:

"Analysis about the same as our air except for two and three-tenths per cent of a gas that
isn't poisonous and which has a peculiar, fragrant odor. I can't analyze it and think it probably
an element unknown upon Earth, or at least very rare."

"It would have to be rare if you don't know what it is," acknowledged Seaton, locking the Skylark
in place and going over to smell the strange gas.

Deciding that the air was satisfactory, the pressure inside the vessel was slowly raised to
the value of that outside and two doors were opened, to allow the new atmosphere free circulation.

Seaton shut off the power actuating the repeller and let the vessel settle slowly toward the
ocean which was directly beneath them--an ocean of a deep, intense, wondrously beautiful blue,
which the scientists studied with interest. Arrived at the surface, Seaton moistened a rod
in a wave, and tasted it cautiously, then uttered a yell of joy--a yell broken off abruptly
as he heard the sound of his own voice. Both girls started as the vibrations set up in the
dense air smote upon their eardrums. Seaton moderated his voice and continued:

"I forgot about the air-pressure. But hurrah for this ocean--it's ammoniacal copper sulphate
solution! We can sure get all the copper we want, right here, but it would take weeks to evaporate
the water and recover the metal. We can probably get it easier ashore. Let's go!"

They started off just above the surface of the ocean toward the nearest continent, which they
had observed from the air.

CHAPTER XIII

Nalboon of Mardonale

As the Skylark approached the shore, its occupants heard a rapid succession of heavy detonations,
apparently coming from the direction in which they were traveling.

"Wonder what that racket is?" asked Seaton.

"It sounds like big guns," said Crane, and DuQuesne nodded agreement.

"Big guns is right. They're shooting high explosive shells, too, or I never heard any. Even
allowing for the density of the air, that kind of noise isn't made by pop-guns."

"Let's go see what's doing," and Seaton started to walk toward one of the windows with his
free, swinging stride. Instantly he was a-sprawl, the effort necessary to carry his weight
upon the Earth's surface lifting him into the air in a succession of ludicrous hops, but he
soon recovered himself and walked normally.

"I forgot this two-fifths gravity stuff," he laughed. "Walk as though we had only a notch of
power on and it goes all right. It sure is funny to feel so light when we're so close to the
ground."

He closed the doors to keep out a part of the noise and advanced the speed lever a little,
so that the vessel tilted sharply under the pull of the almost horizontal bar.

"Go easy," cautioned Crane. "We do not want to get in the way of one of their shells. They
may be of a different kind than those we are familiar with."

"Right--easy it is. We'll stay forty miles above them, if necessary."

As the great speed of the ship rapidly lessened the distance, the sound grew heavier and clearer--like
one continuous explosion. So closely did one deafening concussion follow another that the ear
could not distinguish the separate reports.

"I see them," simultaneously announced Crane, who was seated at one of the forward windows
searching the country with his binoculars, and Seaton, who, from the pilot's seat, could see
in any direction.

The others hurried to the windows with their glasses and saw an astonishing sight.

"Aerial battleships, eight of 'em!" exclaimed Seaton, "as big as the Idaho. Four of 'em are
about the same shape as our battleships. No wings--they act like helicopters."

"Four of them are battleships, right enough, but what about the other four?" asked DuQuesne.
"They are not ships or planes or anything else that I ever heard of."

"They are animals," asserted Crane. "Machines never were and never will be built like that."

As the Skylark cautiously approached, it was evident to the watchers that four of the contestants
were undoubtedly animals. Here indeed was a new kind of animal, an animal able to fight on
even terms with a first-class battleship! Frightful aerial monsters they were. Each had an
enormous, torpedo-shaped body, with scores of prodigiously long tentacles like those of a devil-fish
and a dozen or more great, soaring wings. Even at that distance they could see the row of protruding
eyes along the side of each monstrous body and the terrible, prow-like beaks tearing through
the metal of the warships opposing them. They could see, by the reflection of the light from
the many suns, that each monster was apparently covered by scales and joints of some transparent
armor. That it was real and highly effective armor there could be no doubt, for each battleship
bristled with guns of heavy caliber and each gun was vomiting forth a continuous stream of
fire. Shells bursting against each of the creatures made one continuous blaze, and the uproar
was indescribable--an uninterrupted cataclysm of sound appalling in its intensity.

       *       *       *       *       *

The battle was brief. Soon all four of the battleships had crumpled to the ground, their crews
absorbed by the terrible sucking arms or devoured by the frightful beaks. They did not die
in vain--three of the monsters had been blown to atoms by shells which had apparently penetrated
their armor. The fourth was pursuing something, which Seaton now saw was a fleet of small airships,
which had flown away from the scene of conflict. Swift as they were, the monster covered three
feet to their one.

"We can't stand for anything like that," cried Seaton, as he threw on the power and the Skylark
leaped ahead. "Get ready to bump him off, Mart, when I jerk him away. He acts hard-boiled,
so give him a real one--fifty milligrams!"

Sweeping on with awful speed the monster seized the largest and most gaily decorated plane
in his hundred-foot tentacles just as the Skylark came within sighting distance. In four practically
simultaneous movements Seaton sighted the attractor at the ugly beak, released all its power,
pointed the main bar of the Skylark directly upward, and advanced his speed lever. There was
a crash of rending metal as the thing was torn loose from the plane and jerked a hundred miles
into the air, struggling so savagely in that invisible and incomprehensible grip that the three-thousand-ton
mass of the Skylark tossed and pitched like a child's plaything. Those inside her heard the
sharp, spiteful crack of the machine-gun, and an instant later they heard a report that paralyzed
their senses, even inside the vessel and in the thin air of their enormous elevation, as the
largest X-plosive bullet prepared by the inventors struck full upon the side of the hideous
body. There was no smoke, no gas or vapor of any kind--only a huge volume of intolerable flame
as the energy stored within the atoms of copper, instantaneously liberated, heated to incandescence
and beyond all the atmosphere within a radius of hundreds of feet. The monster disappeared
utterly, and Seaton, with unerring hand, reversed the bar and darted back down toward the fleet
of airships. He reached them in time to focus the attractor upon the wrecked and helpless plane
in the middle of its five-thousand-foot fall and lowered it gently to the ground, surrounded
by the fleet.

The Skylark landed easily beside the wrecked machine, and the wanderers saw that their vessel
was completely surrounded by a crowd of people--men and women identical in form and feature
with themselves. They were a superbly molded race, the men fully as large as Seaton and DuQuesne;
the women, while smaller than the men, were noticeably taller than the two women in the car.
The men wore broad collars of metal, numerous metallic ornaments, and heavily-jeweled leather
belts and shoulder-straps which were hung with weapons of peculiar patterns. The women carried
no weapons, but were even more highly decorated than were the men--each slender, perfectly-formed
body scintillated with the brilliance of hundreds of strange gems, flashing points of fire.
Jeweled bands of metal and leather restrained their carefully-groomed hair; jeweled collars
encircled their throats; jeweled belts, jeweled bracelets, jeweled anklets, each added its
quota of brilliance to the glittering whole. The strangers wore no clothing, and their smooth
skins shone a dark, livid, utterly indescribable color in the peculiar, unearthly, yellowish-bluish-green
glare of the light. Green their skins undoubtedly were, but not any shade of green visible
in the Earthly spectrum. The "whites" of their eyes were a light yellowish-green. The heavy
hair of the women and the close-cropped locks of the men were green as well--a green so dark
as to be almost black, as were also their eyes.

"Well, what d'you know about that?" pondered Seaton, dazedly. "They're human, right enough,
but ye gods, what a color!"

"It is hard to tell how much of that color is real, and how much of it is due to this light,"
answered Crane. "Wait until you get outside, away from our daylight lamps, and you will probably
look like a Chinese puzzle. As to the form, it is logical to suppose that wherever conditions
are similar to those upon the Earth, and the age is anywhere nearly the same, development would
be along the same lines as with us."

"That's right, too. Dottie, your hair will sure look gorgeous in this light. Let's go out and
give the natives a treat!"

"I wouldn't look like that for a million dollars!" retorted Dorothy, "and if I'm going to look
like that I won't get out of the ship, so there!"

"Cheer up, Dottie, you won't look like that. Your hair will be black in this light."

"Then what color will mine be?" asked Margaret.

Seaton glanced at her black hair.

"Probably a very dark and beautiful green," he grinned, his gray eyes sparkling, "but we'll
have to wait and see. Friends and fellow-countrymen, I've got a hunch that this is going to
be SOME visit. How about it, shall we go ahead with it?"

Dorothy went up to him, her face bright with eagerness.

"Oh, what a lark! Let's go!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Even in DuQuesne's cold presence, Margaret's eyes sought those of her lover, and his sleeve,
barely touching her arm, was enough to send a dancing thrill along it.

"Onward, men of Earth!" she cried, and Seaton, stepping up to the window, rapped sharply upon
the glass with the butt of his pistol and raised both hands high above his head in the universal
sign of peace. In response, a man of Herculean mold, so splendidly decorated that his harness
was one blazing mass of jewels, waved his arm and shouted a command. The crowd promptly fell
back, leaving a clear space of several hundred yards. The man, evidently one in high command,
unbuckled his harness, dropping every weapon, and advanced toward the Skylark, both arms upraised
in Seaton's gesture.

Seaton went to the door and started to open it.

"Better talk to him from inside," cautioned Crane.

"I don't think so, Mart. He's peaceable, and I've got my gun in my pocket. Since he doesn't
know what clothes are he'll think I'm unarmed, which is as it should be; and if he shows fight,
it won't take more than a week for me to get into action."

"All right, go on. DuQuesne and I will come along."

"Absolutely not. He's alone, so I've got to be. I notice that some of his men are covering
us, though. You might do the same for them, with a couple of the machine guns."

Seaton stepped out of the car and went to meet the stranger. When they had approached to within
a few feet of each other the stranger stopped. He flexed his left arm smartly, so that the
finger-tips touched his left ear, and smiled broadly, exposing a row of splendid, shining,
green teeth. Then he spoke, a meaningless jumble of sounds. His voice, though light and thin,
nevertheless seemed to be of powerful timbre.

Seaton smiled in return and saluted.

"Hello, Chief. I get your idea all right, and we're glad you're peaceable, but your language
doesn't mean a thing in my young life."

The Chief tapped himself upon the chest, saying distinctly and impressively:

"Nalboon."

"Nalboon," repeated Seaton, and added, pointing to himself:

"Seaton."

"See Tin," answered the stranger, and again indicating himself, "Domak gok Mardonale."

"That must be his title," thought Seaton rapidly. "Have to give myself one, I guess."

"Boss of the Road," he replied, drawing himself up with pride.

The introduction made, Nalboon pointed to the wrecked plane, inclined his head in thanks, and
turned to his people with one arm upraised, shouting an order in which Seaton could distinguish
something that sounded like "See Tin, Bass uvvy Rood." Instantly every right arm in the assemblage
was aloft, that of each man bearing a weapon, while the left arms snapped into the peculiar
salute and a mighty cry arose as all repeated the name and title of the distinguished visitor.

Seaton turned to the Skylark, motioning to Crane to open the door.

"Bring out one of those big four-color signal rockets, Mart!" he called. "They're giving us
a royal reception--let's acknowledge it right."

       *       *       *       *       *

The party appeared, Crane carrying the huge rocket with an air of deference. As they approached,
Seaton shrugged one shoulder and his cigarette-case appeared in his hand. Nalboon started,
and in spite of his utmost efforts at self-control, he glanced at it in surprise. The case
flew open and Seaton, taking a cigarette, extended the case.

"Smoke?" he asked affably. The other took one, but showed plainly that he had no idea of the
use to which it was to be put. This astonishment of the stranger at a simple sleight-of-hand
feat and his apparent ignorance of tobacco emboldened Seaton. Reaching into his mouth, he pulled
out a flaming match, at which Nalboon started violently. While all the natives watched in amazement,
Seaton lighted the cigarette, and after half consuming it in two long inhalations, he apparently
swallowed the remainder, only to bring it to light again. Having smoked it, he apparently swallowed
the butt, with evident relish.

"They don't know anything about matches or smoking," he said, turning to Crane. "This rocket
will tie them up in a knot. Step back, everybody."

He bowed deeply to Nalboon, pulling a lighted match for his ear as he did so, and lighted the
fuse. There was a roar, a shower of sparks, a blaze of colored fire as the great rocket flew
upward; but to Seaton's surprise, Nalboon took it quite as a matter of course, saluting as
an acknowledgment of the courtesy.

Seaton motioned to his party to approach, and turned to Crane.

"Better not, Dick. Let him think that you are the king of everything in sight."

"Not on your life. If he is one king, we are two," and he introduced Crane, with great ceremony,
to the Domak as the "Boss of the Skylark," at which the salute by his people was repeated.

Nalboon then shouted an order and a company of soldiers led by an officer came toward them,
surrounding a small group of people, apparently prisoners. These captives, seven men and seven
women, were much lighter in color than the rest of the gathering, having skins of a ghastly,
pale shade, practically the same color as the whites of their eyes. In other bodily aspects
they were the same as their captors in appearance, save that they were entirely naked except
for the jeweled metal collars worn by all and a massive metal belt worn by one man. They walked
with a proud and lofty carriage, scorn for their captors in every step.

Nalboon barked an order to the prisoners. They stared in defiance, motionless, until the man
wearing the belt who had studied Seaton closely, spoke a few words in a low tone, when they
all prostrated themselves. Nalboon then waved his hand, giving the whole group to Seaton as
slaves. Seaton, with no sign of his surprise, thanked the giver and motioned his slaves to
rise. They obeyed and placed themselves behind the party--two men and two women behind Seaton
and the same number behind Crane; one man and one woman behind each of the others.

Seaton then tried to make Nalboon understand that they wanted copper, pointing to his anklet,
the only copper in sight. The chief instantly removed the trinket and handed it to Seaton;
who, knowing by the gasp of surprise of the guard that it was some powerful symbol, returned
it with profuse apologies. After trying in vain to make the other understand what he wanted,
he led him into the Skylark and showed him the remnant of the power-bar. He showed him its
original size and indicated the desired number by counting to sixteen upon his fingers. Nalboon
nodded his comprehension and going outside, pointed upward toward the largest of the eleven
suns visible, motioning its rising and setting, four times.

He then invited the visitors, in unmistakable sign language, to accompany him as guests of
honor, but Seaton refused.

"Lead on, MacDuff, we follow," he replied, explaining his meaning by signs as they turned to
enter the vessel. The slaves followed closely until Crane remonstrated.

"We don't want them aboard, do we, Dick? There are too many of them."

"All right," Seaton replied, and waved them away. As they stepped back the guard seized the
nearest, a woman, and forced her to her knees; while a man, adorned with a necklace of green
human teeth and carrying a shining broadsword, prepared to decapitate her.

"We must take them with us, I see," said Crane, as he brushed the guards aside. Followed by
the slaves, the party entered the Skylark, and the dark green people embarked in their airplanes
and helicopters.

Nalboon rode in a large and gaily-decorated plane, which led the fleet at its full speed of
six hundred miles an hour, the Skylark taking a placing a few hundred yards above the flagship.

"I don't get these folks at all, Mart," said Seaton, after a moment's silence. "They have machines
far ahead of anything we have on Earth and big guns that shoot as fast as machine-guns, and
yet are scared to death at a little simple sleight-of-hand. They don't seem to understand matches
at all, and yet treat fire-works as an every-day occurrence."

"We will have to wait until we know them better," replied Crane, and DuQuesne added:

"From what I have seen, their power seems to be all electrical. Perhaps they aren't up with
us in chemistry, even though they are ahead of us in mechanics?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Flying above a broad, but rapid and turbulent stream, the fleet soon neared a large city, and
the visitors from Earth gazed with interest at this metropolis of the unknown world. The buildings
were all the same height, flat-roofed, and arranged in squares very much as our cities are
arranged. There were no streets, the spaces between the buildings being park-like areas, evidently
laid out for recreation, amusement, and sport. There was no need for streets; all traffic was
in the air. The air seemed full of flying vehicles, darting in all directions, but it was soon
evident that there was exact order in the apparent confusion, each class of vessel and each
direction of traffic having its own level. Eagerly the three men studied the craft, which ranged
in size from one-man helicopters, little more than single chairs flying about in the air, up
to tremendous multiplane freighters, capable of carrying thousands of tons.

Flying high over the city to avoid its congested air-lanes, the fleet descended toward an immense
building just outside the city proper, and all landed upon its roof save the flagship, which
led the Skylark to a landing-dock nearby--a massive pile of metal and stone, upon which Nalboon
and his retinue stood to welcome the guests. After Seaton had anchored the vessel immovably
by means of the attractor, the party disembarked, Seaton remarking with a grin:

"Don't be surprised at anything I do, folks. I'm a walking storehouse of junk of all kinds,
so that if occasion arises I can put on a real exhibition."

As they turned toward their host, a soldier, in his eagerness to see the strangers, jostled
another. Without a word two keen swords flew from their scabbards and a duel to the death ensued.
The visitors stared in amazement, but no one else paid any attention to the combat, which was
soon over; the victor turning away from the body of his opponent and resuming his place without
creating a ripple of interest.

Nalboon led the way into an elevator, which dropped rapidly to the ground-floor level. Massive
gates were thrown open, and through ranks of people prostrate upon their faces the party went
out into the palace grounds of the Domak, or Emperor, of the great nation of Mardonale.

Never before had Earthly eyes rested upon such scenes of splendor. Every color and gradation
of their peculiar spectrum was present, in solid, liquid, and gas. The carefully-tended trees
were all colors of the rainbow, as were the grasses and flowers along the walks. The fountains
played streams of many and constantly-changing hues, and even the air was tinted and perfumed,
swirling through metal arches in billows of ever-varying colors and scents. Colors and combinations
of colors impossible to describe were upon every hand, fantastically beautiful in that peculiar,
livid light. Diamonds and rubies, their colors so distorted by the green radiance as to be
almost unrecognizable; emeralds glowing with an intense green impossible in earthly light,
together with strange gems peculiar to this strange world, sparkled and flashed from railings,
statues, and pedestals throughout the ground.

"Isn't this gorgeous, Dick?" whispered Dorothy. "But what do I look like? I wish I had a mirror--you
look simply awful. Do I look like you do?"

