As the trains approached Manchester, crowds of people were found covering the banks, the slopes
of the cuttings, and even the railway itself.  The multitude, become impatient and excited
by the rumours which reached them, had outflanked the military, and all order was at an end.
The people clambered about the carriages, holding on by the door-handles, and many were tumbled
over; but, happily no fatal accident occurred.  At the Manchester station, the political element
began to display itself; placards about “Peterloo,” etc., were exhibited, and brickbats were
thrown at the carriage containing the Duke.  On the carriages coming to a stand in the Manchester
station the Duke did not descend, but remained seated, shaking hands with the women and children
who were pushed forward by the crowd.  Shortly after, the trains returned to Liverpool, which
they reached, after considerable interruptions, in the dark, at a late hour.

On the following morning the railway was opened for public traffic.  The first train of 140
passengers was booked and sent on to Manchester, reaching it in the allotted period of two
hours; and from that time the traffic has regularly proceeded from day to day until now.

It is scarcely necessary that we should speak at any length of the commercial results of the
Liverpool and Manchester Railway.  Suffice it to say that its success was complete and decisive.
The anticipations of its projectors were, however, in many respects at fault.  They had based
their calculations almost entirely on the heavy merchandise traffic—such as coal, cotton, and
timber,—relying little upon passengers; whereas the receipts derived from the conveyance of
passengers far exceeded those derived from merchandise of all kinds, which, for a time continued
a subordinate branch of the traffic.

For some time after the public opening of the line, Mr. Stephenson’s ingenuity continued to
be employed in devising improved methods for securing the safety and comfort of the travelling
public.  Few are aware of the thousand minute details which have to be arranged—the forethought
and contrivance that have to be exercised—to enable the traveller by railway to accomplish
his journey in safety.  After the difficulties of constructing a level road over bogs, across
valleys, and through deep cuttings, have been overcome, the maintenance of the way has to be
provided for with continuous care.  Every rail with its fastenings must be complete, to prevent
risk of accident; and the road must be kept regularly ballasted up to the level, to diminish
the jolting of vehicles passing over it at high speeds.  Then the stations must be protected
by signals observable from such a distance as to enable the train to be stopped in event of
an obstacle, such as a stopping or shunting train being in the way.  For some years the signals
employed on the Liverpool railway were entirely given by men with flags of different colours
stationed along the line; there were no fixed signals, nor electric telegraphs; but the traffic
was nevertheless worked quite as safely as under the more elaborate and complicated system
of telegraphing which has since been established.

From an early period it became obvious that the iron road as originally laid down was far too
weak for the heavy traffic which it had to carry. The line was at first laid with fish-bellied
rails weighing thirty-five pounds to the yard, calculated only for horse-traffic, or, at most,
for engines like the “Rocket,” of very light weight.  But as the power and the weight of the
locomotives were increased, it was found that such rails were quite insufficient for the safe
conduct of the traffic, and it therefore became necessary to re-lay the road with heavier and
stronger rails at considerably increased expense.

The details of the carrying stock had in like manner to be settled by experience.  Everything
had, as it were, to be begun from the beginning. The coal-waggon, it is true, served in some
degree as a model for the railway-truck; but the railway passenger-carriage was an entirely
novel structure.  It had to be mounted upon strong framing, of a peculiar kind, supported on
springs to prevent jolting.  Then there was the necessity for contriving some method of preventing
hard bumping of the carriage-ends when the train was pulled up; and hence the contrivance of
buffer-springs and spring frames.  For the purpose of stopping the train, brakes on an improved
plan were also contrived, with new modes of lubricating the carriage-axles, on which the wheels
revolved at an unusually high velocity.  In all these arrangements, Mr. Stephenson’s inventiveness
was kept constantly on the stretch; and though many improvements in detail have been effected
since his time, the foundations were then laid by him of the present system of conducting railway
traffic.  As an illustration of the inventive ingenuity which he displayed in providing for
the working of the Liverpool line, we may mention his contrivance of the Self-acting Brake.
He early entertained the idea that the momentum of the running train might itself be made available
for the purpose of checking its speed.  He proposed to fit each carriage with a brake which
should be called into action immediately on the locomotive at the head of the train being pulled
up.  The impetus of the carriages carrying them forward, the buffer-springs would be driven
home and, at the same time, by a simple arrangement of the mechanism, the brakes would be called
into simultaneous action; thus the wheels would be brought into a state of sledge, and the
train speedily stopped.  This plan was adopted by Mr. Stephenson before he left the Liverpool
and Manchester Railway, though it was afterwards discontinued; but it is a remarkable fact,
that this identical plan, with the addition of a centrifugal apparatus, has quite recently
been revived by M. Guérin, a French engineer, and extensively employed on foreign railways,
as the best method of stopping railway trains in the most efficient manner and in the shortest
time.

Finally, Mr. Stephenson had to attend to the improvement of the power and speed of the locomotive—always
the grand object of his study,—with a view to economy as well as regularity of working.  In
the “Planet” engine, delivered upon the line immediately subsequent to the public opening,
all the improvements which had up to that time been contrived by him and his son were introduced
in combination—the blast-pipe, the tubular boiler, horizontal cylinders inside the smoke-box,
the cranked axle, and the fire-box firmly fixed to the boiler.  The first load of goods conveyed
from Liverpool to Manchester by the “Planet” was 80 tons in weight, and the engine performed
the journey against a strong head wind in 2½ hours. On another occasion, the same engine brought
up a cargo of voters from Manchester to Liverpool, during a contested election, within a space
of sixty minutes!  The “Samson,” delivered in the following year, exhibited still further improvements,
the most important of which was that of coupling the fore and hind wheels of the engine.  By
this means, the adhesion of the wheels on the rails was more effectually secured, and thus
the full hauling power of the locomotive was made available.  The “Samson,” shortly after it
was placed upon the line, dragged after it a train of waggons weighing 150 tons at a speed
of about 20 miles an hour; the consumption of coke being reduced to only about a third of a
pound per ton per mile.

The success of the Liverpool and Manchester experiment naturally excited great interest.  People
flocked to Lancashire from all quarters to see the steam-coach running upon a railway at three
times the speed of a mailcoach, and to enjoy the excitement of actually travelling in the wake
of an engine at that incredible velocity.  The travellers returned to their respective districts
full of the wonders of the locomotive, considering it to be the greatest marvel of the age.
Railways are familiar enough objects now, and our children who grow up in their midst may think
little of them; but thirty years since it was an event in one’s life to see a locomotive, and
to travel for the first time upon a public railroad.

The practicability of railway locomotion being now proved, and its great social and commercial
advantages ascertained, the general extension of the system was merely a question of time,
money, and labour.  Although the legislature took no initiative step in the direction of railway
extension, the public spirit and enterprise of the country did not fail it at this juncture.
The English people, though they may be defective in their capacity for organization, are strong
in individualism; and not improbably their admirable qualities in the latter respect detract
from their efficiency in the former.  Thus, in all times, their greatest enterprises have not
been planned by officialism and carried out upon any regular system, but have sprung, like
their constitution, their laws, and their entire industrial arrangements, from the force of
circumstances and the individual energies of the people.

The mode of action in the case of railway extension, was characteristic and national.  The
execution of the new lines was undertaken entirely by joint-stock associations of proprietors,
after the manner of the Stockton and Darlington, and Liverpool and Manchester companies.  These
associations are conformable to our national habits, and fit well into our system of laws.
They combine the power of vast resources with individual watchfulness and motives of self-interest;
and by their means gigantic undertakings, which otherwise would be impossible to any but kings
and emperors with great national resources at command, were carried out by the co-operation
of private persons.  And the results of this combination of means and of enterprise have been
truly marvellous. Within the life of the present generation, the private citizens of England
engaged in railway extension have, in the face of Government obstructions, and without taking
a penny from the public purse, executed a system of communications involving works of the most
gigantic kind, which, in their total mass, their cost, and their public utility, far exceed
the most famous national undertakings of any age or country.

Mr. Stephenson was of course, actively engaged in the construction of the numerous railways
now projected by the joint-stock companies.  The desire for railway extension principally pervaded
the manufacturing districts, especially after the successful opening of the Liverpool and Manchester
line.  The commercial classes of the larger towns soon became eager for a participation in
the good which they had so recently derided.  Railway projects were set on foot in great numbers,
and Manchester became a centre from which main lines and branches were started in all directions.
The interest, however, which attaches to these later schemes is of a much less absorbing kind
than that which belongs to the earlier history of the railway and the steps by which it was
mainly established.  We naturally sympathise more keenly with the early struggles of a great
principle, its trials and its difficulties, than with its after stages of success; and, however
gratified and astonished we may be at its consequences, the interest is in a great measure
gone when its triumph has become a matter of certainty.

The commercial results of the Liverpool and Manchester line were so satisfactory, and indeed
so greatly exceeded the expectations of its projectors, that many of the abandoned projects
of the speculative year 1825 were forthwith revived.  An abundant crop of engineers sprang
up, ready to execute railways of any extent.  Now that the Liverpool and Manchester line had
been made, and the practicability of working it by locomotive power had been proved, it was
as easy for engineers to make railways and to work them, as it was for navigators to find America
after Columbus had made the first voyage.  Mr. Francis Giles attached himself to the Newcastle
and Carlisle and London and Southampton projects.  Mr. Brunel appeared as engineer of the line
projected between London and Bristol; and Mr. Braithwaite, the builder of the “Novelty” engine,
acted in the same capacity for a railway from London to Colchester.

The first lines constructed subsequent to the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway,
were mostly in connection with it, and principally in the county of Lancaster.  Thus a branch
was formed from Bolton to Leigh, and another from Leigh to Kenyon, where it formed a junction
with the main line between Liverpool and Manchester.  Branches to Wigan on the north, and to
Runcorn Gap and Warrington on the south of the same line, were also formed.  A continuation
of the latter, as far south as Birmingham, was shortly after projected under the name of the
Grand Junction Railway.

The last mentioned line was projected as early as the year 1824, when the Liverpool and Manchester
scheme was under discussion, and Mr. Stephenson then published a report on the subject.  The
plans were deposited, but the bill was thrown out through the opposition of the landowners
and canal proprietors.  When engaged in making the survey, Stephenson called upon some of the
landowners in the neighbourhood of Nantwich to obtain their assent, and was greatly disgusted
to learn that the agents of the canal companies had been before him, and described the locomotive
to the farmers as a most frightful machine, emitting a breath as poisonous as the fabled dragon
of old; and telling them that if a bird flew over the district where one of these engines passed,
it would inevitably drop down dead!  The application for the bill was renewed in 1826, and
again failed; and at length it was determined to wait the issue of the Liverpool and Manchester
experiment.  The act was eventually obtained in 1833.

When it was proposed to extend the advantages of railways to the population of the midland
and southern counties of England, an immense amount of alarm was created in the minds of the
country gentlemen.  They did not relish the idea of private individuals, principally resident
in the manufacturing districts, invading their domains; and they everywhere rose up in arms
against the “new-fangled roads.”  Colonel Sibthorpe openly declared his hatred of the “infernal
railroads,” and said that he “would rather meet a highwayman, or see a burglar on his premises,
than an engineer!”  The impression which prevailed in the rural districts was, that fox-covers
and game-preserves would be seriously prejudiced by the formation of railroads; that agricultural
communications would be destroyed, land thrown out of cultivation, landowners and farmers reduced
to beggary, the poor-rates increased through the number of persons thrown out of employment
by the railways,—and all this in order that Liverpool, Manchester, and Birmingham shopkeepers
and manufacturers might establish a monstrous monopoly in railway traffic.

The inhabitants of even some of the large towns were thrown into a state of consternation by
the proposal to provide them with the accommodation of a railway.  The line from London to
Birmingham would naturally have passed close to the handsome town of Northampton, and was so
projected; but the inhabitants of the shire, urged on by the local press, and excited by men
of influence and education, opposed the project, and succeeded in forcing the promoters, in
their survey of the line, to pass the town at a distance.  When the first railway through Kent
was projected, the line was laid out so as to pass by Maidstone, the county town.  But it had
not a single supporter amongst the townspeople, whilst the landowners for many miles round
combined to oppose it.  In like manner, the line projected from London to Bristol was strongly
denounced by the inhabitants of the intermediate districts; and when the first bill was thrown
out, Eton assembled under the presidency of the Marquis of Chandos to congratulate the country
upon its defeat.

During the time that the works of the Liverpool and Manchester line were in progress, our engineer
was consulted respecting a short railway proposed to be formed between Leicester and Swannington,
for the purpose of opening up a communication between the town of Leicester and the coal-fields
in the western part of the county.  The projector of this undertaking had some difficulty in
getting the requisite capital subscribed for, the Leicester townspeople who had money being
for the most part interested in canals.  George Stephenson was invited to come upon the ground
and survey the line.  He did so, and then the projector told him of the difficulty he had in
finding subscribers to the concern. “Give me a sheet,” said Stephenson, “and I will raise the
money for you in Liverpool.”  The engineer was as good as his word, and in a short time the
sheet was returned with the subscription complete.  Mr. Stephenson was then asked to undertake
the office of engineer for the line, but his answer was that he had thirty miles of railway
in hand, which were enough for any engineer to attend to properly.  Was there any person he
could recommend?  “Well,” said he, “I think my son Robert is competent to undertake the thing.”
Would Mr. Stephenson be answerable for him?  “Oh, yes, certainly.”  And Robert Stephenson,
at twenty-seven years of age, was installed engineer of the line accordingly.

           [Picture: Map of Leicester and Swannington Railway]

The requisite Parliamentary powers having been obtained, Robert Stephenson proceeded with the
construction of the railway, about 16 miles in length, towards the end of 1830.  The works
were comparatively easy, excepting at the Leicester end, where the young engineer encountered
his first stiff bit of tunnelling.  The line passed underground for 1¾ mile, and 500 yards
of its course lay in loose dry running sand.  The presence of this material rendered it necessary
for the engineer first to construct a wooden tunnel to support the soil while the brickwork
was being executed.  This proved sufficient, and the whole was brought to a successful termination
within a reasonable time.  While the works were in progress, Robert kept up a regular correspondence
with his father at Liverpool, consulting him on all points in which his greater experience
was likely to be of service.  Like his father, Robert was very observant, and always ready
to seize opportunity by the forelock.  It happened that the estate of Snibston, near Ashby-de-la-Zouch,
was advertised for sale; and the young engineer’s experience as a coal-viewer and practical
geologist suggested to his mind that coal was most probably to be found underneath.  He communicated
his views to his father on the subject.  The estate lay in the immediate neighbourhood of the
railway; and if the conjecture proved correct, the finding of coal would necessarily greatly
enhance its value.  He accordingly requested his father to come over to Snibston and look at
the property, which he did; and after a careful inspection of the ground, he arrived at the
same conclusion as his son.

The large manufacturing town of Leicester, about fourteen miles distant, had up to that time
been exclusively supplied with coal brought by canal from Derbyshire; and Mr. Stephenson saw
that the railway under construction from Swannington to Leicester, would furnish him with a
ready market for any coals which he might find at Snibston.  Having induced two of his Liverpool
friends to join him in the venture, the Snibston estate was purchased in 1831: and shortly
after, Stephenson removed his home from Liverpool to Alton Grange, for the purpose of superintending
the sinking of the pit.  He travelled thither by gig with his wife,—his favourite horse “Bobby”
performing the journey by easy stages.

Sinking operations were immediately begun, and proceeded satisfactorily until the old enemy,
water, burst in upon the workmen, and threatened to drown them out.  But by means of efficient
pumping-engines, and the skilful casing of the shaft with segments of cast-iron—a process called
“tubbing,” {234} which Mr. Stephenson was the first to adopt in the Midland Counties—it was
eventually made water-tight, and the sinking proceeded.  When a depth of 166 feet had been
reached, a still more formidable difficulty presented itself—one which had baffled former sinkers
in the neighbourhood, and deterred them from further operations. This was a remarkable bed
of whinstone or green-stone, which had originally been poured out as a sheet of burning lava
over the denuded surface of the coal measures; indeed it was afterwards found that it had turned
to cinders one part of the seam of coal with which it had come in contact.  The appearance
of this bed of solid rock was so unusual a circumstance in coal mining, that some experienced
sinkers urged Stephenson to proceed no further, believing the occurrence of the dyke at that
point to be altogether fatal to his enterprise.  But, with his faith still firm in the existence
of coal underneath, he fell back on his old motto of “Persevere.”  He determined to go on boring;
and down through the solid rock he went until, twenty-two feet lower, he came upon the coal
measures.  In the mean time, however, lest the boring at that point should prove unsuccessful,
he had commenced sinking another pair of shafts about a quarter of a mile west of the “fault;”
and after about nine months’ labour he reached the principal seam, called the “main coal.”

The works were then opened out on a large scale, and Mr. Stephenson had the pleasure and good
fortune to send the first train of main coal to Leicester by railway.  The price was immediately
reduced to about 8s. a ton, effecting a pecuniary saving to the inhabitants of the town of
about £40,000 per annum, or equivalent to the whole amount then collected in Government taxes
and local rates, besides giving an impetus to the manufacturing prosperity of the place, which
has continued down to the present day.  The correct principles upon which the mining operations
at Snibston were conducted offered a salutary example to the neighbouring colliery owners.
The numerous improvements there introduced were freely exhibited to all, and they were afterwards
reproduced in many forms all over the Midland Counties, greatly to the advantage of the mining
interest.

Nor was Mr. Stephenson less attentive to the comfort and well-being of those immediately dependent
upon him—the workpeople of the Snibston colliery and their families.  Unlike many of those
large employers who have “sprung from the ranks,” he was one of the kindest and most indulgent
of masters.  He would have a fair day’s work for a fair day’s wages; but he never forgot that
the employer had his duties as well as his rights.  First of all, he attended to the proper
home accommodation of his workpeople.  He erected a village of comfortable cottages, each provided
with a snug little garden.  He was also instrumental in erecting a church adjacent to the works,
as well as Church schools for the education of the colliers’ children; and with that broad
catholicity of sentiment which distinguished him, he further provided a chapel and a school-house
for the use of the Dissenting portion of the colliers and their families—an example of benevolent
liberality which was not without a salutary influence upon the neighbouring employers.

Of the numerous extensive projects which followed close upon the completion of the Liverpool
and Manchester line, and the Locomotive triumph at Rainhill, that of a railway between London
and Birmingham was the most important.  The scheme originated at the latter place in 1830.
Two committees were formed, and two plans were proposed.  One was of a line to London by way
of Oxford, and the other by way of Coventry.  The simple object of the promoters of both schemes
being to secure the advantages of railway communication with the metropolis, they wisely determined
to combine their strength to secure it.  They then resolved to call George Stephenson to their
aid, and requested him to advise them as to the two schemes which were before them.  After
a careful examination of the country, Mr. Stephenson reported in favour of the Coventry route,
when the Lancashire gentlemen, who were the principal subscribers to the project, having every
confidence in his judgment, supported his decision, and the line recommended by him was adopted
accordingly.

At the meeting of the promoters held at Birmingham to determine on the appointment of the engineer
for the railway, there was a strong party in favour of associating with Mr. Stephenson a gentleman
with whom he had been brought into serious collision in the course of the Liverpool and Manchester
undertaking.  When the offer was made to him that he should be joint engineer with the other,
he requested leave to retire and consider the proposal with his son.  The father was in favour
of accepting it. His struggle heretofore had been so hard that he could not bear the idea of
missing so promising an opportunity of professional advancement.  But the son, foreseeing the
jealousies and heartburnings which the joint engineership would most probably create, recommended
his father to decline the connection.  George adopted the suggestion, and returning to the
Committee, he announced to them his decision; on which the promoters decided to appoint him
the engineer of the undertaking in conjunction with his son.

This line, like the Liverpool and Manchester, was very strongly opposed, especially by the
landowners.  Numerous pamphlets were published, calling on the public to “beware of the bubbles,”
and holding up the promoters of railways to ridicule.  They were compared to St. John Long
and similar quacks, and pronounced fitter for Bedlam than to be left at large.  The canal proprietors,
landowners, and road trustees, made common cause against them.  The failure of railways was
confidently predicted—indeed, it was elaborately attempted to be proved that they had failed;
and it was industriously spread abroad that the locomotive engines, having been found useless
and highly dangerous on the Liverpool and Manchester line, were immediately to be abandoned
in favour of horses—a rumour which the directors of the Company thought it necessary publicly
to contradict.

Public meetings were held in all the counties through which the line would pass between London
and Birmingham, at which the project was denounced, and strong resolutions against it were
passed.  The attempt was made to conciliate the landlords by explanations, but all such efforts
proved futile, the owners of nearly seven-eighths of the land being returned as dissentients.
“I remember,” said Robert Stephenson, describing the opposition, “that we called one day on
Sir Astley Cooper, the eminent surgeon, in the hope of overcoming his aversion to the railway.
He was one of our most inveterate and influential opponents. His country house at Berkhampstead
was situated near the intended line, which passed through part of his property.  We found a
courtly, fine-looking old gentleman, of very stately manners, who received us kindly and heard
all we had to say in favour of the project.  But he was quite inflexible in his opposition
to it.  No deviation or improvement that we could suggest had any effect in conciliating him.
He was opposed to railways generally, and to this in particular.  ‘Your scheme,’ said he, ‘is
preposterous in the extreme.  It is of so extravagant a character, as to be positively absurd.
Then look at the recklessness of your proceedings!  You are proposing to cut up our estates
in all directions for the purpose of making an unnecessary road.  Do you think for one moment
of the destruction of property involved by it?  Why, gentlemen, if this sort of thing be permitted
to go on, you will in a very few years destroy the noblesse!’  We left the honourable baronet
without having produced the slightest effect upon him, excepting perhaps, it might be, increased
exasperation against our scheme.  1 could not help observing to my companions as we left the
house, ‘Well, it is really provoking to find one who has been made a “Sir” for cutting that
wen out of George the Fourth’s neck, charging us with contemplating the destruction of the
noblesse, because we propose to confer upon him the benefits of a railroad.’“

Such being the opposition of the owners of land, it was with the greatest difficulty that an
accurate survey of the line could be made.  At one point the vigilance of the landowners and
their servants was such, that the surveyors were effectually prevented taking the levels by
the light of day; and it was only at length accomplished at night by means of dark lanterns.
There was one clergyman, who made such alarming demonstrations of his opposition, that the
extraordinary expedient was resorted to of surveying his property during the time he was engaged
in the pulpit. This was managed by having a strong force of surveyors in readiness to commence
their operations, who entered the clergyman’s grounds on one side the moment they saw him fairly
off them on the other.  By a well-organised and systematic arrangement each man concluded his
allotted task just as the reverend gentleman concluded his sermon; so that, before he left
the church, the deed was done, and the sinners had all decamped. Similar opposition was offered
at many other points, but ineffectually. The laborious application of Robert Stephenson was
such, that in examining the country to ascertain the best line, he walked the whole distance
between London and Birmingham upwards of twenty times.

When the bill went before the Committee of the Commons in 1832, a formidable array of evidence
was produced.  All the railway experience of the day was brought to bear in support of the
measure, and all that interested opposition could do was set in motion against it.  The necessity
for an improved mode of communication between London and Birmingham was clearly demonstrated;
and the engineering evidence was regarded as quite satisfactory.  Not a single fact was proved
against the utility of the measure, and the bill passed the Committee, and afterwards the third
reading in the Commons, by large majorities.

