I can deeply sympathize with the dread of massacres and persecutions of the Jewish people;
and I consider it just and fair that they should strain every effort to put a stop to such
atrocities as have been witnessed by the civilized world within a few years. But it must be
borne in mind that it is the Russian government, the Russian reactionary party, including the
Russian Church, and not the Russian people, that are responsible for the slaughter of the Jews.

Jewish Socialists and Anarchists, however, who have joined the ranks of the Nationalists and
who have forgotten to emphasize the fundamental distinction between the people of Russia and
the reactionary forces of that country, who have fought and are still fighting so bravely for
their freedom and for the liberation of all who are oppressed, deserve severe censure. They
have thrown the responsibility of the massacres upon the Russian people and have even blamed
the Revolutionists for them, whereas it is an undisputed fact that the agitation against the
Jews has been inaugurated and paid for by the ruling clique, in the hope that the hatred and
discontent of the Russian people would turn from them, the real criminals, to the Jews. It
is said, "we have no rights in Russia, we are being robbed, hounded, killed, let the Russian
people take care of themselves, we will turn our backs on them."

Would it not show deeper insight into the condition of affairs if my Jewish brethren were to
say, "Our people are being abused, insulted, ill-treated and killed by the hirelings of Russian
despotism. Let us strengthen our union with the Intellectuals, the peasants, the rebellious
elements of the people for the overthrow of the abominable tyranny; and when we have accomplished
that let us co-operate in the great work of building a social structure upon which neither
the nation nor the race but Humanity can live and grow in beauty."

Prejudices are never overcome by one who shows himself equally narrow and bigoted. To confront
one brutal outbreak of national sentiment with the demand for another form of national sentiment
means only to lay the foundation for a new persecution that is bound to come sooner or later.
Were the retrogressive ideas of the Jewish Nationalists ever to materialize, the world would
witness, after a few years, that one Jew is being persecuted by another.

In one respect the Jews are really a "chosen people." Not chosen by the grace of God, nor by
their national peculiarities, which with every people, as well as with the Jews, merely prove
national narrowness. They are "chosen" by a necessity, which has relieved them of many prejudices,
a necessity which has prevented the development of many of those stupidities which have caused
other nations great efforts to overcome. Repeated persecution has put the stamp of sorrow on
the Jews; they have grown big in their endurance, in their comprehension of human suffering,
and in their sympathy with the struggles and longings of the human soul.

Driven from country to country, they avenged themselves by producing great thinkers, able theoreticians,
heroic leaders of progress. All governments lament the fact that the Jewish people have contributed
the bravest fighters to the armies for every liberating war of mankind.

Owing to the lack of a country of their own, they developed, crystallized and idealized their
cosmopolitan reasoning faculty. True, they have not their own empire, but many of them are
working for the great moment when the earth will become the home for all, without distinction
of ancestry or race. That is certainly a greater, nobler and sounder ideal to strive for than
a petty nationality.

