The European concession is a small town in itself, and from the nomenclature of the landing
places it would appear that the English and French claim the greatest interests here. These
landing stages are called, from the division of the settlement which they front, the English
and French "Hatobahs"--the "atter bar" of the sailor.

As this town is the great point of contest between the Japanese and the foreigner, everything
in the shape of "curios" can be obtained in its marts and bazaars. Most of the objects are
novel to us, and from their attractiveness generally induce sailors to purchase on the strength
of that very quality. Except in very rare instances a piece of real lacquer can scarcely be
obtained, most of it having already found its way to Europe; that which we see here is made
chiefly for sailors, who needs must take something home--they care not what, nor are they very
particular about the price asked. And how well these people have studied the "tar;" how they
have discovered his weakness for startling colours! I am writing this about four years subsequent
to this, our first visit, and one would think, that four years was amply sufficient for the
purpose of opening our eyes to deceptions. Have they though? Not a bit of it, for we are quite
as ready to be "taken in" to-day or to-morrow, as we were four years since. Still, there are
some very handsome and, now and then, really elegant things to be picked up in the shops: bronzes,
lacquers, china, tortoise-shell earrings, fans, paintings, or silk, combining in their execution,
the most educated taste, and the most wonderful skill. Generally speaking a "Japper" after
naming a price will rarely retract. The Chinaman always will, the rogue! The Japanese know
this peculiarity of the Chinaman, and nothing will wound a Jap's self-respect more than to
compare his mode of dealing with the celestial's.

They seem to enjoy arguing and chaffering over prices, and will frequently go to the length
of pulling down masses of paper, supposed to be invoices, to shew that they are asking you
fair. We pretend to examine these inventories with a most erudite expression on our ignorant
faces, and invariably commence to open the wrong end of the book, forgetful that the Japanese
commence at what we call the last page. The dealers display the utmost indifference as to whether
you buy or not, and you may pull their shops to pieces without raising their ire in the slightest,
for they will bow to you just as ceremoniously on leaving as though you had purchased twenty
dollars' worth.

Strange as Japanese art appears to us, there is design in all their executions. This presents
a marked contrast to Chinese art, which appears to be simply the result of the artist's fancy.
A Chinaman seems to have no idea, when he commences a thing, what he is going to produce, he
goes on cutting and scraping, taking advantage of, here a vein in a stone, perhaps, or there
a knot in the gnarled branches of a tree, and his imagination, distorted by the diabolical
forms with which his superstition surrounds him, does the rest.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now I will ask you to take a run with me to Tokio, the capital of Japan.

The hour's ride by rail conducts us through a pleasant, well cultivated country. Fields of
ripe grain, clusters of woods with cottages peeping out of their bosky shades, and surrounded
by stacks of hay and corn, have, for the Englishman, a farm-like and altogether a home-like look.

The best and safest method to adopt on arriving at the terminus is to hire rickshas of the
company at the railway station, by so doing you are saved from being victimised by the coolies,
who are about as honest as the Jehus of our own streets. You may employ them for as many hours
as you please, but to avoid fractions it is usual to engage them by the day.

Until Japan was opened to foreigners, Tokio, or Yedo, was a mystery to the civilized world.
It was supposed to be fabulously large, and was said to contain more inhabitants than any other
metropolis in the world; some accounts putting it down to as many as four millions. As regards
its extent, the city certainly does cover an immense space. Its population, though, is but
half that of London. Its large area is due, perhaps, more to the manner in which it is laid
out, than to anything else--which is in the form of concentric circles, the mikado's palace,
or castle, occupying the centre. Around this dismal, feudal looking, royal abode, the various
embassies are erected; buildings which present a far finer--because more modern and European--appearance
than does the imperial residence. Circling the whole is a large deep moat, the waters of which
are thickly studded with beautiful water lilies, and spanned by several bridges. Then come
the dingy and now disused houses and streets of those powerful men of a by-gone age, the daimios.
The whole aspect of this question may be summed up in the word desolation. This, too, is surrounded
by a canal, or moat. Beyond this, again comes the city proper, with its busy, bustling population.

We are entirely at the mercy of our "ricksha" men, and have not the remotest idea of where
they are driving us; but assuming they know more about the city than we, this does not exercise
us much. They rattle us along over unevenly paved streets, and whiz us around corners with
the rapidity of thought; an uncomfortable sensation in the region of the dorsal vertebræ, resulting
from the unusual bumping process, and a fear lest, haply, we may be flying out of our carriage
at a tangent into somebody's shop front, a pleasing reflection should we take a header amongst
china.

Our coolies had been directed to a quarter of the city called Shiba, and here at length we
find ourselves, and are shortly set down before one of the grandest buddhist temples in Japan.
How peacefully the great building reposes in its dark casket of solemn fir trees! To reach
the main entrance, we traverse a broad pathway lined with praying lanterns on either hand.
These lanterns are stone pedestals, surmounted by a hollow stone ball with a crescent shaped
aperture in its surface, through which, at night, the rays of light proceeding from burning
prayers penetrate the gloom. Scores of tombs, containing the remains of the defunct tycoons
and their wives, fill the temple court; and as each successive tycoon looked forward to reposing
here after death, during life he richly embellished it, and endeavoured to make it worthy to
receive so august a body as his own.

A bald-headed priest, standing at the great entrance, bids us remove our shoes and follow him.
He conducts us up grand stair cases, through corridors, into courtyards, chapels, and sanctuaries;
unlocks recesses, and produces sacred vessels of massive gold work of vast antiquity and splendid
design, intimating to us that these are for the sole use of the mikado, when he assumes his
priestly office. Here we get our first idea of what real lacquer means. Our bonze brought out
a small lacquered cubical box, of a dull gold colour, and about four inches in height, and
gave us to understand that it could not be purchased for 500 dollars! Just fancy! And then
the carving, gilding, colouring, and lacquer, everywhere, is something beyond description.
Even the very floors on which we tread, the stairs, the hand-rails, are all gorgeous with vermilion
lacquer. One sanctuary is really resplendent, its vessel's mouldings and ornaments being of
dead gold work, wrought in all kinds of emblematical designs and shapes. I feel assured that
no thoughtful man can visit Shiba's temple without being impressed with the high perfection
to which the Japanese have attained in the arts; a perfection which the foreign mind can rarely
grasp. After a donation to the polite bonze--which he receives on a gold salver and lays on
the altar--we encase our feet in leather once more, and leave the sacred precincts. We may
possibly never have the opportunity of paying Shiba a second visit; but the privilege of having
done so once is--to a man of research--a liberal education in itself.

The streets and their busy throng are very gay and lively. Hosts of healthy-looking and prettily
clad children are running here, there, and everywhere in pursuit of their kites, and other
childish amusements. Vendors hawking their wares, as at home; the shrill melancholy whistle
of the blind shampooer who, with a staff in one hand and a short bamboo pipe in the other,
thus apprises people of his willingness to attend on them; ladies bowing and "sayonaraing"
each other in musical tones; the encouraging voice of the driver to his jaded ox; and the warning
"a--a" of the ricksha man; these are the music of the streets in "the land of the rising sun."

The city can boast in the possession of several very fine and extensive parks, that in which
the Naval College is situate being one of the largest. Here the youthful Japanese officers
of the navy were educated by English instructors in all the branches and requirements of the
modern naval service, and some of the work we saw in the different parts of the building shews
that the Japanese have become thorough masters of the technicalities, and no mean adepts at
their practical application. All the foreign instructors--except one--have now been discharged,
the Japanese feeling themselves strong enough to walk alone in naval matters. That one exception
is a chief gunner's mate, who so rarely uses the English language that, on conversing with
us, he had frequently to pause to consider what words he should make use of, and even then
his English was broken, and spoken just as a native would speak it.

On the return ride to Yokohama I was fortunate enough to find myself seated next a gentleman
who has been resident in Japan upwards of twenty-five years, during which period he has travelled
throughout the length and breadth of the empire. As may be imagined he was a repository of
much valuable and varied information. He could hoist out facts and figures as easily as you
would fling a weevily biscuit to leeward. From his conversation with me I gained much knowledge
about Japan, which it was impossible I could have acquired in any other way, and all of which
I have embodied in various parts of this narrative.

The manner in which the natural taste is assimilating itself to European ideas appears more
evident when one comes to observe the hundreds of Japanese who take advantage of the railway.
Stop at what station you like, you will find the platform suddenly alive with gaily dressed
and clogged passengers, on pleasure bent, loaded with toys or wares that have been purchased,
in the gay capital.

A few days after the above events the Japanese squadron of smart corvettes, and the large ironclad
"Foo-soo" (Great Japan, as we say Great Britain,) got under way and proceeded to sea. It was
rumoured that the mikado was to have accompanied in his yacht, and in anticipation of his embarkation
all the men-of-war in harbour dressed ship, though, as it turned out, he did not put in an
appearance.

July 3rd.--General Grant arrived this morning in the corvette "Richmond," and escorted by a
Japanese man-of-war. All ships, except the English and German, dressed in honour of the American
flag, which the corvette flew at her main. The two nationalities I have mentioned seem to have
offered a marked discourtesy to the general, the German especially so, for just as the "Richmond"
was about to anchor the "Prinz Adalbert" broke the German royal standard at her royal mast
head, which, as it were, blew the charges out of guns already loaded for the American. The
"Adalbert" has Prince Heinrich, the second son of our Princess Royal, on board as a midshipman;
hence the standard.

It would appear that the slight passed on Jonathan did not go entirely unnoticed by him, for
in the evening, at sunset, when, as is customary with that nation, her band played her colours
down and then the national anthems, it was noticed that the English and German tunes were studiously
omitted.

But the "Richmond" had taken up a bad billet to anchor in, and to find a more secure one she
steamed out to the entrance of the harbour and made a wide sweep before returning. Some of
our jocular shipmates had quite a different view of this proceeding, for, if we are to believe
them, the American went out to take the turn out of her flags, or to allow her ship's company
to bathe, the waters of the harbour being too shallow for the latter purpose!

Unwillingly my pen has once again to trace the lines which are to record the death of another
of our poor fellows, Frederick Smyth, a stoker. Returning from leave in one of the open, dangerous,
shallow boats of the place, and perhaps slightly the worse for liquor, the unfortunate man
fell overboard, his body not being recovered until some days after the sad event.

July 22nd.--Up anchor once more! Onward is our motto, nor are we particularly sorry to be on
the move, for I think everybody is surfeited with Yokohama, and perhaps the fact that everybody's
money is all gone, has something to do with our eagerness to be off. So, boys, "We'll go to
sea for more," as the old tars did. Just as the anchor was a-trip two royal personages came
on board, the Princes Arisugawa--father and son; the father being the commander-in-chief of
the Japanese army; the son a "midshipmite" in the Imperial navy. They were attended by their
suite and Sir Harry Parkes, the British ambassador at Tokio. We took them a short distance
to sea with us, and after seeing one or two evolutions they returned to Yokohama in the "Vigilant,"
whilst we resumed our voyage.

CHAPTER XI.

    From clime to clime, from sea to sea, we roam,
    'Tis one to us--we head not yet for home.

  NORTHWARD--HAKODADI--DUI--CASTRIES BAY--
  BARRACOUTA--VLADIVOSTOCK.

Shortly after rounding Mela Head and shaping our course to the northward, the temperature underwent
a marked change, in fact so suddenly were we ushered into a colder zone that everybody is on
the search for pocket handkerchiefs, these articles being in very general demand.

The eastern coast of Niphon, along which we are now cruising, has several admirable harbours
and sheltered anchorages. Two days after leaving Yokohama we found the ship standing in for
the land and making for Yamada, one of the securest harbours on the coast. Bold hills and headlands,
clothed in the easily recognisable dark green foliage of the fir, rear themselves on either
hand as we pass into the outer bay. This outer sheet of water--for there is an inner--has a
very broad opening seaward, but suddenly, on changing course, a narrow inlet reveals a noble
bay, perfectly land-locked with a village of considerable size at its head. No sooner had our
anchor left the bows than a volunteer party asked and obtained permission to go fishing. So
far, however, as catching fish was concerned, the expedition was a signal failure, though,
looked at in the light of enjoyment, it was a perfect success. Along the beach of this arcadia
an abundance of flowers grow in a wild state, amongst them the rose, whose beauty, bloom, and
fragrance equalled those of the choicest culture in our English garden; and on looking at them
and the other familiar flowers around, we might have been forgiven for fancying ourselves at
home. Whence come our associates, and why is it that even the fragrance of a flower is capable
of seizing hold on the mind, and transporting it to the utmost limits of a continent?

The usual wondering throng of natives speedily gathered around us, eager to participate in
the viands which we were endeavouring to stow away. Fortunately we had plenty of biscuit with
which to satisfy their curiosity; but it was a long time before they could be prevailed upon
to drink out of a basin of cocoa. When we offered it to them they touched their heads and swayed
their bodies to and fro, making a very creditable pantomime of intoxication. At length, however,
one of us used the Japanese word "tcha" (tea) which had the desired effect, for one man advanced,
took a drink, and liked it; and though he of course discovered it was not tea, he also found
out it was not rum.

July 27th--We have now reached the northern end of Niphon, and turned westward into the broad
strait of Tsugar, which separates the greater island from Yesso. The scenery about the strait
is very lovely; all day we have coasted the land down, and alternate hill and dale, and here
and there a giant volcano peak were most refreshing objects on which to rest the eye. Towards
evening the great open bay of Awomori came into view, and in a short time we had entered it,
and cast anchor opposite a small town, built on a level grassy plain. The irregularly scattered
houses, amidst trees and greensward, have something the appearance of Singapore, when viewed
from the seaward.

Our stay was but short, for on the following morning our anchor was at the bows, and the ships
heading for Hakodadi. This town--the largest in Yesso--reminds one very forcibly of Gibraltar.
There is a similar high rock standing sheer out of the sea--almost the same narrow strip of
land connecting it with the main; whilst the town is built on the slopes of the eminence, and
circling the bay as at Gib. The town is not over large, and commodities are very scarce, the
only thing obtainable being dried salmon.

During our stay the ship's company landed under arms--a by no means pleasurable treat, as you
shall see. The waters near the shore were so shallow that the men experienced great difficulty
in reaching the beach, and were only able to accomplish it after wading through about twenty
yards of mud and water, dragging guns and ammunition with them. Add to this the inconvenience
of drilling and marching in dripping clothes, and the knowledge that the same performance must
be repeated to embark again; and you will see that a sailor's life is not all sugar. Hakodadi
is not a place that sailors are likely to fall in love with, for there is no accommodation
on shore for them; yet leave was given, and the men had to "bunk it out" where they could.
On this occasion--let me record it in the reddest of red letters, or in the most emphatic italics--a
liberty boat was granted.

August 3rd--To-day is Sunday, and a sort of preliminary inspection by the admiral, but--would
you believe it?--he completely ignored the beautifully cleaned deck and stanchions, the glistening
whitewash, and all the other aids to appearances, well known to sailors, and put on specially
for the occasion! Yes, he actually took not the slightest notice of these, but, instead, poked
his head into all the holes and corners where he was likely to find sundry and various small
gear, such as dirty towels, "duff" bags, ditty bags, and so forth. The result might have been
anticipated. He turned out so much that, before he had gone a third of the way around the lower
deck, he gave the captain orders to make a personal inspection first, and then report to him;
and as everyone knows, when once Captain Cleveland gets into that canvas suit of his, he is--in
naval phrase--"a dead rivet."

One night, as we lay here ready for sea, a man-of-war was observed entering the harbour, and
as soon as the flashing lights were brought to bear, and her number made, she proved to be
the "Charybdis," last from Yokohama. She informed us that, subsequent to her leaving that port,
cholera had broken out amongst her crew, one man having died of it on the passage, whilst a
second was down with the disease, though he was now in a fair way towards recovery. She was
at once ordered into quarantine, and to hoist the "yellow jack" at the fore. Young Prince Arisugawa
was also on board, taking passage to join our ship as naval cadet; however, he was not permitted
to come to us until he had been overhauled by the doctors on shore, and his clothes fumigated.
Immediately he had left her the "Charybdis" was ordered to sea; the bracing sea air of a more
northern clime being about the most effective medicine for her crew.

August 9.--To-day Prince Arisugawa came on board, and in due course was consigned to the tender
mercies of the young English gentlemen in the gunroom; his future messmates--and shall I be
wrong if I say tormentors? At the same time a most acceptable gift to the ship's company, consisting
of eight bullocks, was brought alongside; the present, I believe, of the Emperor, whose health
we ate next day.

Steam was already up when the prince embarked, and there was nothing further to detain us except
the weather. That, indeed, was very threatening, and not to be ignored. Terrific peals of thunder
and blinding lightning, accompanied by such heavy and persisted showers of rain that it was
a mystery how the soil could withstand such an inundation, delayed our sailing for upwards
of four hours. At the end of that time nature again resumed her wonted smiling appearance,
the sun chasing away such evidences of bad temper with the rapidity of thought.

Nothing of moment occurred on our voyage up the gulf of Tartary, except that, during one middle
watch, the ship narrowly escaped running on a rock; but as she did not actually touch, we verify
the adage that "a miss is as good as a mile." The day following, the lifting of a fog bank
revealed to us the "Charybdis" close in shore, under small sail. On signalling us that she
had pitched her late unwelcome visitor overboard, she was allowed to join company, and afterwards
proceeded on to Dui, to coal and order some for us.

August 13th.--Sad misfortune! direful calamity! Why? Read, and you will be as wise as myself.
In the middle watch of this night, our two cats--have I told you that we brought two cats from
England with us?--as was their wont, were skylarking and cutting capers on the hammock nettings
and davits, when tabby the lesser, instead of jumping on something palpable, made a leap on
space with the natural result, for he lighted on water and was rapidly whirled astern by the
inky waters of the Tartar gulf. Poor pussy, little did we dream, or you either, that Siberian
waters were to sing your requiem! We feel very sorry at the loss of our pet, for he was a thorough
sailor, thinking it nothing to mount the rigging and seat himself on the crosstrees, whilst
on his rounds; and as to the item "rats," shew me the rodent that could ever boast of weathering
him, and I will shew you a clever beast.

At daybreak we made the harbour of Dui, in the island of Saghalien, a Russian penal settlement
and coaling depôt, though coaling is under such severe restrictions that the trouble to secure
it is worth its cost. For instance, only a certain number of tons can be had each day, and
then only for one ship at a time; and instead of using large lighters to bring it off, small
boats are employed, rendering it necessary to make a multiplicity of visits to the shore. This
island, until recently a part of the Japanese empire, is rich in coal, and other minerals,
a fact Russia was careful to note when casting her covetous eyes over its broad surface.

It may be remembered, perhaps, that in the year 1879, Russia sent her first batch of Nihilists
and other political offenders to Siberia, by the more expeditious sea route, and that alarming
reports had crept into the European press, and especially into that of the national censor,
the English, as to the cruelties and inhumanities these poor people had to endure on the voyage.
The vessel, with the convicts on board, was lying at Dui on our arrival, and our admiral was
not slow to avail himself of the means of satisfying himself, and, through him, the English
press, as to the alleged enormities. He found, I believe, that far from being badly treated,
the prisoners had every consideration allowed them consistent with their position as state
prisoners. Indeed, the convicts on this island seem to enjoy almost perfect liberty of action,
short of being permitted to escape, for I encountered about a score of them on shore--big,
burly, well-fed fellows--smoking, playing at pitch-and-toss, and singing, as if to be a convict
was a state to be desired rather than otherwise. Possibly, these were good characters, for
I certainly saw some in the coaling hulks with heavy chains on their wrists and legs, and with
half-shaved heads--a distinguishing mark which those I met on shore had not.

By dint of extra pressure we managed to procure our coal next day, though it took us till after
sundown to get in 140 tons. We and the "Charybdis" then sailed--she for Yokohama and we for
Castries bay--about sixty miles on the other side of the gulf--where we dropped anchor on the
following morning.

We felt the weather bitterly cold, as contrasted with the temperature of our experience since
leaving England, though, I suppose, at home such would be called genial.

There is not a sign or semblance of the human species, near this spot. All around us is forest,
forest to the utmost limit of vision. Pines and firs, firs and pines, for acres upon acres;
sufficient, I should think, to furnish all the navies of the world, present and yet unborn,
with spars. What a solemn and wintry aspect these northern forests have; what weird murmurs
and ghostly sighs haunt their virgin glades. Sometimes in the midst of this almost black greenness,
some forest monarch, bleached and scared by the icy breath of generations of Siberian winters,
stands out with skeleton distinctness. A dreary, desolate place altogether. There must be a
town somewhere in the vicinity, though, for in the afternoon the military commandant hove in
sight. This official had on the enormous bearskin head-dress, and dark green uniform of the
Cossack regiment. An insignificant-looking man, all moustache and swagger.

On Monday, the day following our arrival, to all those who cared to avail themselves of it,
a regular day's outing was granted. We started early, so as to have a long day before us. We
had permission to fish to our heart's content, in waters where fish is specially abundant and
good. It was rather a long pull to the shore, and shallow water there when we reached it, for
we had gone a considerable distance up a small river. The town (so it is called) of Alexandrovsk--at
the same time the village of "Tighee" (Torpoint) would make four such towns--was passed on
our way up. We pushed on into the interior as far as we could drag our larger boats, and selected
our encampment on a spit of beach, near the dwellings of some natives. These huts were of tent
shape and constructed of bark, and covered with the skins of the reindeer, numbers of which
animals we can see grazing in the vicinity.

The inhabitants of this little-known part of the great asiatic continent, are mongolian Tartars.
They are possessed of a rather forbidding cast of feature, have great square, flat faces, the
nose scarcely distinguishable, and swallowed up in the flattening process (this though, by
the way, is an index of beauty amongst them), low foreheads, and dreamy-looking obliquely-set
eyes. Their head-gear is much after the Chinese style, except, that in addition to the queue,
they allow the remainder of the hair to develop itself, which it does in the wildest and most
elfish manner. For dress, the untanned skins of the animals caught in the chase, with the hair
outboard, answers all their requirements. At first one experiences a great difficulty in distinguishing
the sexes, for the ordinary bearings by which we sight "danger" ahead are entirely wanting.
Stay, are they all absent? Scarcely, for the vanity inherent in woman displays itself even
here. These ladies have large iron rings in their ears, and through the cartilage of the nose
a similar pendant is hung, on which is an additional ornament of a green stone, much resembling
the mineral malachite. Their dress is a very capacious, continuous garment of the yellow skin
of the hair seal, seamed with sinews, and very rudely put together. Hundreds of yelping dogs
lay about in all possible attitudes of laziness, whilst a few other village pets, e.g., a great
bald-headed eagle, of a most bloodthirsty and ferocious aspect, and a couple of large brown
bears with uncomfortable looking teeth and arms, suggestive of a long embrace, stood unpleasantly
near, though their owners had thought fit to secure them.

This people's religion is a strange mixture of heathenism and Greek church Christianity. The
czar's soldiers have a very short and effective manner of converting the subjugated races which
bow before their swords, by driving the whole batch at the point of the bayonet into the nearest
stream, whilst a little Greek cross is put round the neck of each, and a copy of the bible
given them. Near these huts I observed an idol of the rudest construction. It was supposed,
I presume, to represent a man's shape--but it was merely a flat board, with the lower end sharpened
to a point to fix in the ground, and the upper end fashioned into a very ambiguous circle to
form a head; the mouth, nose, and eyes being afterwards added in pigment. One old gent pulled
from some obscure retreat in the internal structure of his ample ulster, a pocket edition of
the Acts of the Apostles, in English, and from the careful manner in which it was preserved,
and the security of its hiding place, he seemed to set great store by it. I tried to surmise
how such a volume could have come into his possession, and could only account for it by supposing
it had washed up on the beach; but then, if so, why such reverential care of the book. Missionaries,
say you. Well, a missionary would scarcely provide himself with copies of the English scripture
for distribution amongst gilyaks and calmuck Tartars.

Meanwhile our fishers had pushed on still further inland, dragging the dingy after them, and
had met with such success that they returned to camp with their boat laden to the gunwale with
salmon and salmon trout. But of all the fish taken that day, by far the finest specimen was
that captured near the camping ground. This was a magnificent salmon, of over forty pounds
weight, that had become entangled in the long grass with which the surface of the river was
covered, a circumstance which rendered him an easy prey to his enemies.

Resuming our southward voyage, our next place of call was Barracouta harbour. It was here,
if I am rightly informed, that a French naval officer shot himself, because he had allowed
the Russian squadron to overreach him. It was during the Crimean war, the English and French
squadrons had hunted the station all over to come up with the Russians, but though they often
sighted the enemy, they never succeeded in engaging them. From China to Japan, from Japan to
Corea, and away in Siberian waters, it was all the same; the Russians were perfectly successful
in out manoeuvring their enemy. At length the squadron was again sighted, and their capture
seemed a dead certainty, when suddenly it disappeared into a small inlet, apparently in the
iron-bound coast of Kamtschatka. Without charts, or the remotest knowledge of the locality,
it would be madness to follow. The British, indeed, did manage to find their way into Petropoloski,
and succeeded, I believe, in setting fire to one old hulk. It was a most inglorious business
throughout, and so worked on the exciteable temperament of the French commanding officer, that
he decided to die by his own hand rather than survive such a questionable victory.

On entering the harbour we observed the "Pegasus" at anchor, seemingly in a wilderness of fir
trees. This is the first time we have seen this smart little sloop, as she is a recent addition
to our fleet.

There is an abundance of wild fruits here; the raspberries, in particular, being specially
fine in size, and delicious in flavour. These and sloes were the only two we recognised, and
we took especial care to go in for none of the others; wisely deciding that it was better to
confine ourselves to the known. After traversing a virgin forest--soft, mossy, and velvety
to the naked feet--and now and again wading muddy streams, studded with artificial islets,
composed of roots and other debris--in fact floating islands--we at length came out into a
clearing, in which was a collection of huts, and a number of women engaged in the preparation
of fish, but for what purpose I am to this day ignorant. The manner in which they set about
their work is most revolting. Unpleasant though I know it will look in print, nevertheless
it must be described. Each woman is armed with a sharp, crescent-shaped blade--seemingly of
steel--with which she makes an incision in the back of the neck of the fish, sufficiently deep
to penetrate the skin; then taking the animal in both her hands, and applying her teeth to
the wound, she tears a long strip off towards the tail, which disappears down her throat with
the rapidity and movements of an eel, or of macaroni "down the neck" of a Neapolitan beggar.
This, I presume, is called the tit-bit, for the remainder is thrown on one side into a pit,
amongst a heap of putrid, festering fish, to undergo the rotting process, necessary to a perfect
cure. The appetite of these squaws seem unsatiable; for during the short time we looked on,
three of them managed to get outside of about twenty salmon trout, in this manner.

After a stay of three days in this pretty little spot, we started, under very unfavourable
circumstances. The weather was very cold and foggy, and rain fell in abundance, so altogether
it was very unpleasant. But this was not all, for on making the open sea the wind began to
rise, and we close to a lee shore. We speedily prepared for a gale, as night was coming on,
and no indications of the wind going down. The "Pegasus" was still in company; and the two
ships kept up a pretty lively conversation with each other during that night of fog, by means
of that nautical toy, the steam whistle. Fast and furious they went at it, singing sweet lullabys
to the slumbering tars of the watch below. Such horrible shrieks and appalling yells would
startle a Red-Indian war-whoop into fits. I feel certain, from subsequent remarks on the subject--let
fall in the manner peculiar to seamen--that if their wishes had been answered that night, all
the waters in the sea would not have been sufficient to cool the place where they would have
consigned the whole apparatus.

