WESTMINSTER

PART I

SOUTH OF VICTORIA STREET.

The word Westminster used in the title does not mean that city which has its boundaries stretching
from Oxford Street to the river, from the Broad Walk, Kensington Gardens, to Temple Bar. A
city which embraces the parishes of St. George's, Hanover Square; St. James's, Piccadilly;
St. Anne's, Soho; St. Paul's, Covent Garden; St. Clement Danes; St. Mary le Strand, etc.; and
which claims to be older even than London, dating its first charter from the reign of King
Edgar. But, rather, Westminster in its colloquial sense, that part of the city which lies within
the parishes of St. Margaret and St. John. When anyone says, 'I am going to Westminster,' or,
'I am staying in Westminster,' it is this district that he means to indicate.

The parishes of St. Margaret and St. John include the land bounded on one side by the river;
on another by a line running through the Horse Guards and diagonally across St. James's Park
to Buckingham Gate; and on the third by an irregular line which crosses Victoria Street to
the west of Carlisle Place, and subsequently cuts across the Vauxhall Bridge Road near Francis
Street, and, continuing at a slight angle to the course of the Bridge Road, strikes the river
at a spot beyond the gasworks between Pulford Terrace and Bessborough Place. There is also
another piece of land belonging to St. Margaret's parish; this lies detached, and includes
part of Kensington Gardens and the Round Pond; but it is only mentioned to show it has not
been overlooked, for the present account will not deal with it. The triangular space roughly
indicated above is sufficient for one ramble.

Within this space stand, and have stood, so many magnificent buildings closely connected with
the annals of England that Westminster may well claim to occupy a unique place in the history
of the nation. The effects of two such buildings as the Abbey and Palace upon its population
were striking and unique.

The right of sanctuary possessed by the Abbey drew thieves, villains, and rogues of all kinds
to its precincts. The Court drew to the Palace a crowd of hangers-on, attendants, artificers,
work-people, etc. When the Court was migratory this great horde swept over Westminster at intervals
like a wave, and made a floating population. In the days of "touching" for "King's evil," when
the Court was held at Whitehall, vast crowds of diseased persons gathered to Westminster to
be touched. In Charles II.'s time weekly sittings were appointed at which the number of applicants
was not to exceed 200. Between 1660-64, 23,601 persons were "touched." Later, when the roads
were still too bad to be traversed without danger, many of the members of Parliament lodged
in Westminster while the House was sitting. Therefore, from the earliest date, when bands of
travellers and merchants came down the great north road, and passed through the marshes of
Westminster to the ferry, until the beginning of the present century, there has always been
a floating element mingling with the stationary inhabitants of the parishes.

The history of Westminster itself is entwined with these two great foundations, the Abbey and
the Palace, which will be found described in detail respectively at pp. 45 and 71.

DESCRIPTIVE ACCOUNT.

The perambulation of Westminster, undertaken street by street, differs from that made at Chelsea
or elsewhere by reason of the great buildings aforementioned, which are centres of interest
and require particular notice. These will be dealt with as they occur, and so interesting are
they that they cause the street associations to sink into a position of secondary importance.

Beginning at the least interesting end of Westminster--that is to say, the west end of Victoria
Street--there are not many objects of interest apparent. Victoria Street was in 1852 cut through
nests of alleys and dirty courts, including a colony of almshouses, cottages, chapel, and school,
known as Palmer's Village. The solid uniform buildings on either side of the street have a
very sombre aspect; they are mainly used for offices. There is still some waste ground lying
to the south of Victoria Street, in spite of the great Roman Catholic Cathedral, begun in 1895,
which covers a vast area. The material is red brick with facings of stone, and the style Byzantine,
the model set being the "early Christian basilica in its plenitude." The high campanile tower,
which is already seen all over London, is a striking feature in a building quite dissimilar
from those to which we in England are accustomed. The great entrance at the west end has an
arch of forty feet span, and encloses three doorways, of which the central one is only to be
used on solemn occasions by the Archbishop. One feature of the interior decoration will be
the mosaic pictures in the marble panels. The building is still incomplete, and not open to
the public. It stands on the site of Tothill Fields Prison, which was considered to be one
of the finest specimens of brickwork in the country, and cost the nation £200,000, but has
now completely vanished. It resembled a fortress; the entrance, which stood in Francis Street,
was composed of massive granite blocks, and had a portcullis. The prison took the place of
a Bridewell or House of Correction near, built in 1622; but in spite of the vast sum of money
spent upon it, it lasted only twenty years (1834-54).

The fire-station and Western District Post-Office also occupy part of the same site. The extension
of the Army and Navy Stores stands on the site of the Greencoat School, demolished in 1877.
Certain gentlemen founded this school; in Charles I.'s reign it was constituted "a body politic
and corporate," and the seal bears date 1636. The lads wore a long green skirt, bound round
with a red girdle. In 1874, when the United Westminster Schools were formed from the amalgamation
of the various school charities of Westminster, the work was begun here, but three years later
the boys were removed to the new buildings in Palace Street. The old school buildings were
very picturesque. They stood round a quadrangle, and the Master's house faced the entrance,
and was decorated with a bust of King Charles and the royal arms. In the wainscoted board-room
hung portraits of King Charles I. by Vandyck, and King Charles II. by Lely.

The name of Artillery Row is connected with the artillery practice at the butts, which stood
near here in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. At the end, if we turn to the left, we come into
Old Rochester Row, and so to Greycoat Place, in which stands the Greycoat Hospital. This building,
one of the few old ones left in the parish, has a red-tiled roof and dormer windows, projecting
eaves and heavy window-frames. Two wings enclose a courtyard, which is below the level of the
road. Above the central porch, in niches, are the figures of a boy and girl in the old-fashioned
Greycoat garb. In the centre are the Royal arms of Queen Anne, and a turret with clock and
vane surmounts the roof.

This hospital was founded in 1698 for the education of seventy poor boys and forty poor girls.
In 1706, by letters patent of Queen Anne, the trustees were constituted a body 'politic and
corporate.' In this year also the school was established in the present quaint building, which
had been a workhouse, perhaps that referred to in the vestry reports of 1664 as the "new workhouse
in Tuttle ffields."

The boys then wore a long gray skirt and girdle, something similar to the Christ's Hospital
uniform, and the girls a dress of gray. The hospital originated in the charity of the parishioners.
Various additions have since been made to the building, and class-rooms have been added. The
older class-rooms and board-room are wainscoted. In the latter are oil-paintings of Queen Anne,
Bishops Compton and Smalridge (of Bristol), and various governors. The corporate seal represents
two male figures tending a young sapling, a reference to 1 Cor. vii. 8. An old organ, contemporary
with the date of the establishment, and a massive Bible and Prayer-Book, are among the most
interesting relics. The latter, dated 1706, contains the "Prayer for the Healing" at the King's
touch.

The hospital is a very wealthy foundation, and is able to support the strain of its immense
expenses without difficulty. The governors have recently erected a row of red-brick flats to
the west of the garden, which will further augment the income. The garden is charming with
flower-beds and grass plots, while the vine and the ampelopsis climb over the old building.

Rochester Row owes its name to the connection of the See of Rochester with the Deanery of Westminster,
which continued through nine successive incumbencies. The row was considered by the Dean and
Chapter as a private thoroughfare until the beginning of the present century, but they had
no reason to be proud of it. A filthy ditch caused much complaint; even in 1837 the state of
the row was described as "shameful and dangerous." At the north-east end stood the parish pound-house.
St. Stephen's Church and Schools are handsome, in a decorated Gothic style, and were built
in 1847 by Ferrey, at the cost of the Baroness Burdett-Coutts. The spire rises to a height
of 200 feet.

Immediately opposite, two neat rows of almshouses, in red brick, face one another; on the exterior
wall of each wing is the half-length effigy of a man in a niche. Beneath that on the northern
wing is the inscription: "Mr. Emery Hill, late of the parish of St. Margaret's, Westminster,
founded these almshouses Anno Domini 1708. Christian Reader, in Hopes of thy Assistance." On
each side similar inscriptions commemorate donations.

On the southern wing the slab beneath the figure bears the words: "Rev. James Palmer founded
almshouses in Palmer's Passage for six poor old men and six poor old women Anno Domini 1856;
re-erected here, 1881"; and a further record: "Mr. Nicholas Butler founded the almshouses in
Little Chapel Street, near Palmer's Passage, for two of the most ancient couples of the best
repute, Anno Domini 1675; re-erected here 1881." These are the Westminster United Almshouses.
They were consolidated by an order of the Charity Commission, dated July 11, 1879. The Grenadier
Guards Hospital is further down the row on the same side.

Vincent Square is the Westminster School playground. This space, of about ten acres of land,
has been the subject of much dispute between the Dean and Chapter and the parish. It was first
marked out as a playground in 1810, but not enclosed by railings until 1842. Dr. Vincent, Headmaster
of the school and formerly Dean of Westminster, took the lead in the matter, and the enclosure
is therefore named after him. The ground is now levelled, and forms magnificent playing-fields;
from the south end there is a fine view of many-towered Westminster. The hospital of the Coldstream
Guards is in one corner of the Square, and next to it the Westminster Police Court. St. Mary's
Church and Schools are on the south side. The Grosvenor Hospital for Women and Children is
in Douglas Street close by. This originated in a dispensary in 1865.

The ground in the parish already traversed corresponds roughly with that occupied by the once
well-known Tothill Fields. Older writers call this indifferently Tuthill, Totehill, Tootehill,
but more generally Tuttle. In Timbs' "London and Westminster" we read: "The name of Tot is
the old British word Tent (the German Tulsio), god of wayfarers and merchants.... Sacred stones
were set up on heights, hence called Tothills." If ever there were a hill at Tothill Fields,
it must have been a very slight one, and in this case it may have been carted away to raise
the level elsewhere. We know that St. John's burial-ground was twice covered with three feet
of soil, and in the parish accounts we read of gravel being carted from Tothill. The greater
part of the ground in any case can have been only low-lying, for large marshy pools remained
until comparatively recent times, one of which was known as the Scholars' Pond. Dean Stanley
has aptly termed these fields the Smithfield of West London. Here everything took place which
required an open space--combats, tournaments, and fairs.

In a map of the middle of the eighteenth century we see a few scattered houses lying to the
south of Horseferry Road just below the bend, and Rochester Row stretching like an arm out
into the open ground. Two of the great marshy pools are also marked. If all accounts are to
be believed, this spot was noted for its fertility and the beauty of its wild-flowers. From
Strype's Survey we learn that the fields supplied London and Westminster with "asparagus, artichokes,
cauliflowers and musk melons." The author of "Parochial Memorials" says that the names of Orchard
Street, Pear Street and Vine Street are reminiscent of the cultivation of fruit in Westminster,
but these names more probably have reference to the Abbot's garden. Walcott says that Tothill
Fields, before the Statute of Restraints, was considered to be within the limits of the sanctuary
of the Abbey. Stow gives a long and minute account of a trial by battle held here. One of the
earliest recorded tournaments held in these fields was at the coronation of Queen Eleanor in 1226.

A great fair held in the fields in 1248 was a failure. All the shops and places of merchandise
were shut during the fifteen days that it lasted, by the King's command, but the wind and rain
ruined the project.

In 1256 John Mansell, the King's Counsellor and a priest, entertained the Kings and Queens
of England and Scotland and so many Dukes, Lords, and Barons, at Westminster that he had not
room for them in his own house, but set up tents and pavilions in Tothill.

In 1441 "was the fighting at the Tothill between two thefes, a pelour and a defendant; the
pelour hadde the field, and victory of the defendour withinne three strokes."

Both the armies of the Royalists and the Commonwealth were at different times paraded in these
fields; of the latter, 14,000 men were here at one time. During 1851-52 Scottish prisoners
were brought to Tothill, and many died there, as the churchwardens' accounts show. In the latter
year we read the entry: "Paid to Thomas Wright for 67 load of soyle laid on the graves in Tuthill
Fields wherein 1,200 Scotch prisoners (taken at the fight at Worcester) were buried."

It was fifteen years later, in the time of the Great Plague, that the pesthouses came into
full use, for we read in the parish records July 14, 1665, "that the Churchwardens doe forthwith
proceed to the making of an additional Provision for the reception of the Poore visited of
the Plague, at the Pesthouse in Tuttle ffieldes." The first two cases of this terrible visitation
occurred in Westminster, and during the sorrowful months that followed, in place of feasting
and pageantry, the fields were the theatre for scenes of horror and death. The pesthouses were
still standing in 1832.

There was formerly a "maze" in Tothill Fields, which is shown in a print from an engraving
by Hollar taken about 1650.

Vauxhall Bridge Road was cut through part of the site belonging to the old Millbank Penitentiary.
The traffic to the famous Vauxhall Gardens on the other side of the river once made this a
very crowded thoroughfare; at present it is extremely dreary. The Scots Guards Hospital is
on the west side.

Turning to the left at the end in the Grosvenor Road, we soon come to the Tate Gallery of British
Art, the magnificent gift of Sir Henry Tate to the nation. Besides the building, the founder
gave sixty-five pictures to form the nucleus of a collection. This is said to be the first
picture-gallery erected in England complete in itself; the architect is Sydney Smith, F.R.I.B.A.,
and the style adopted is a Free Classic, Roman with Greek feeling in the mouldings and decorations.
There is a fine portico of six Corinthian columns terminating in a pediment, with the figure
of Britannia at the central apex, and the lion and unicorn at each end. The basement, of rusticated
stone, ten feet high, runs round the principal elevation. A broad flight of steps leads to
the central entrance. The front elevation is about 290 feet in length. The vestibule immediately
within the principal door leads into an octagonal sculpture hall, top-lighted by a glass dome.
There are besides five picture-galleries, also top-lighted. The pictures, which include the
work of the most famous British artists, are nearly all labelled with the titles and artists'
names, so a catalogue is superfluous. The collection includes the pictures purchased by the
Chantrey Bequest, also a gift from G. F. Watts, R.A., of twenty-three of his own works. The
gallery is open from ten to six, and on Sundays in summer after two o'clock. Thursdays and
Fridays are students' days.

The gallery stands on the site of the old Millbank Penitentiary, for the scheme of which Howard
the reformer was originally responsible. He was annoyed by the rejection of the site he advocated,
however, and afterwards withdrew from the project altogether. Wandsworth Fields and Battersea
Rise were both discussed as possible sites, but were eventually abandoned in favour of Millbank.
Jeremy Bentham, who advocated new methods in the treatment of prisoners, gained a contract
from the Government for the erection and management of the new prison. He, however, greatly
exceeded the terms of his contract, and finally withdrew, and supervisors were appointed. The
prison was a six-rayed building with a chapel in the centre. Each ray was pentagonal in shape,
and had three towers on its exterior angles. The whole was surrounded by an octagonal wall
overlooking a moat. At the closing of the prison in Tothill Fields it became the sole Metropolitan
prison for females, "just as," says Major Griffiths, "it was the sole reformatory for promising
criminals, the first receptacle for military prisoners, the great depot for convicts en route
for the antipodes."

In 1843 it was called a penitentiary instead of a prison. Gradually, as new methods of prison
architecture were evolved, Millbank was recognised as cumbersome and inadequate. It was doomed
for many years before its demolition, and now, like the prison of Tothill Fields, has vanished.
Even the convicts' burial-ground at the back of the Tate Gallery is nearly covered with County
Council industrial dwellings.

Further northward in the Grosvenor Road, Peterborough House once stood, facing the river, and
this was at one time called "the last house in Westminster." It was built by the first Earl
of Peterborough, and retained his name until 1735, when it passed to Alexander Davis of Ebury,
whose only daughter and heiress had married Sir Thomas Grosvenor. It was by this marriage that
the great London property came into the possession of the Grosvenor (Westminster) family. The
house was rebuilt, and renamed Grosvenor House. Strype says: "The Earl of Peterborough's house
with a large courtyard before it, and a fine garden behind, but its situation is but bleak
in winter and not over healthful, as being too near the low meadows on the south and west parts."
The house was finally demolished in 1809.

Beyond, in the direction of the Houses of Parliament, there are several interesting old houses,
of which the best specimens are Nos. 8 and 9, offices of the London Road Car Company, and No.
10. In the first a well-furnished ceiling proclaims an ancient drawing-room; in the second
panelled walls and a spiral staircase set off a fine hall. This house has a beautiful doorway
of the old scallop-shell pattern, with cherubs' heads and ornamental brackets decorating it.
In the third house a ceiling is handsomely finished with dental mouldings, and the edges of
the panels are all carved. A mantelpiece of white marble is very fine, and of great height
and solidity, with a female face as the keystone.

From Lambeth Bridge the Horseferry Road leads westward. This was the main track to the ferry
in ancient days, and as the ferry was the only one on the Thames at London, it was consequently
of great importance. It was here that James II. crossed after escaping from Whitehall by night,
and from his boat he threw the Great Seal into the river. Horseferry Road is strictly utilitarian,
and not beautiful; it passes by gasworks, a Roman Catholic church, Wesleyan chapel, Normal
Institute and Training College, all of the present century. North of it Grosvenor Road becomes
Millbank Street. The Abbot's watermill stood at the end of College Street (further north),
and was turned by the stream which still flows beneath the roadway. In an old survey a mill
is marked on this spot, and is supposed to have been built by the same Abbot Litlington who
built the wall in College Street (1362-1386). It was still standing in 1644, and mention is
made of it at that date in the parish books. The bank was a long strip of raised earth, extending
from here to the site of Peterborough House. Strype mentions "the Millbank" as a "certain parcel
of land valued in Edward VI.'s time at 58 shillings, and given in the third of his reign" to
one Joanna Smith for "services rendered."

Church Street (left) leads into Smith Square. Here stands the Church of St. John the Evangelist.
This was the second of Queen Anne's fifty churches built by imposing a duty on coals and culm
brought into the Port of London. The new district was formed in 1723, but the consecration
ceremony did not take place until June 20, 1728. The architect was Archer, a pupil of Sir John
Vanbrugh's, and the style, which is very peculiar, has been described as Doric. The chief features
of the church are its four angle belfries, which were not included in the original scheme of
the architect, but were added later to insure an equal pressure on the foundations. Owing to
these the church has been unkindly compared to an elephant with its four legs up in the air!
Another story has it that Queen Anne, being troubled in mind by much wearisome detail, kicked
over her wooden footstool, and said, "Go, build me a church like that"; but this sounds apocryphal,
especially in view of the fact that the towers were a later addition. The church is undoubtedly
cumbrous, but has the merit of originality. In 1742 it was gutted by fire, and was not rebuilt
for some time owing to lack of funds. In 1773 the roof was slightly damaged by lightning, and
subsequently repairs and alterations have taken place. The building seats 1,400 persons, and
a canonry of Westminster Abbey is attached to the living.

The churchwardens of St. John's possess an interesting memento in the form of a snuff-box,
presented in 1801 by "Thomas Gayfere, Esq., Father of the Vestry of St. John the Evangelist."
This has been handed down to the succeeding office-bearers, who have enriched and enlarged
it by successive silver plates and cases.

