The intention of Sorell in favour of Major Abbott is clear: the provisional reserve of the
land in his behalf is clear also. The views of Sir Thomas Brisbane are not so indisputable;
but they probably changed on a remonstrance being offered by Arthur. The official answer to
Sorell's application was a description of the reserve solicited, unaccompanied with demur or
question: it was understood by Sorell to mean approval; and, but for subsequent interference,
a grant would have issued of course. Where no corruption can be suspected, actual or ultimate
value is certainly no equitable objection to perfect a claim founded on the custom, and created
by the authorities of the time.

Except the grants claimed under the Downing-street regulations, lands were bestowed at the
discretion of the governor, to the extent of 2,650 acres. Many received still larger quantities
at different times. The arrest of robbers, the cultivation of flax or hops, the capture or
conciliation of the aborigines, and losses by fire, were occasions for the governor's benevolence:
other and less respectable causes were attributed, and scarcely require enumeration.

The large discretion of the governor was asserted by Sir George Murray. Mr. Hall, the editor
of the Monitor, had been refused a grant by Darling, while others were freely indulged. He
complained; but was told by the secretary of state (1829), that the governor could judge most
correctly of an applicant, and that his decision would be usually held final.

The collection of quit-rents has baffled the agents of the crown: at first, the amount was
too small to repay the trouble of collection, and for both colonies, in 1824, did not exceed
£400 per annum.

A large number of grants in Van Diemen's Land became liable in 1831, and notice was given that
payment would be enforced. The settlers of Cornwall, led by Messrs. Bryan, Joseph Archer, and
Gleadow, signed a petition to the crown, which complained that the exaction was partial and
oppressive. The governor promised to forward the memorial, but stated that he had no ground
to expect that the claim would be ever relaxed.

Notwithstanding, in 1834, Arthur proposed a composition. He offered a release at ten instead
of twenty years' purchase, if accepted within one year; without, however, allowing any set-off
"for convict maintenance"--equal, in some cases, to the whole sum. In 1836, he proposed to
intercede with the crown to relinquish all claims up to that year, a bond being given by the
debtor for the arrears, if required: these offers were but little successful.

To prevent a return to this topic, it may be added, that in 1841 Sir John Franklin offered
to mediate for a remission of accumulations prior to 1835, provided all from that date were
liquidated by yearly instalments. The total amount of quit-rent is estimated at £15,000 a-year,
including the towns.

The collection of quit-rents is a curious instance of dodging--the government to obtain, and
the settlers to evade. Those debtors drawn into payment, could demand in equity that the indulgence
granted to defaulters should be communicated to them: they were allowed a set-off in future
payments. Those who redeemed their quit-rent were less favored.

