A trial survey was then begun, but it was conducted with great difficulty, the inhabitants
of the district entertaining the most violent prejudices against the scheme. In some places
Mr. James and his surveying party even encountered personal violence. The farmers stationed
men at the field-gates with pitchforks, and sometimes with guns, to drive them back. At St.
Helen’s, one of the chainmen was laid hold of by a mob of colliers, and threatened to be hurled
down a coal-pit. A number of men, women, and children, collected and ran after the surveyors
wherever they made their appearance, bawling nicknames and throwing stones at them. As one
of the chainmen was climbing over a gate one day, a labourer made at him with a pitchfork,
and ran it through his clothes into his back; other watchers running up, the chainman, who
was more stunned than hurt, took to his heels and fled. But that mysterious-looking instrument—-the
theodolite-—most excited the fury of the natives, who concentrated on the man who carried it
their fiercest execrations and most offensive nicknames.

A powerful fellow, a noted bruiser, was hired by the surveyors to carry the instrument, with
a view to its protection against all assailants; but one day an equally powerful fellow, a
St. Helen’s collier, cock of the walk in his neighbourhood, made up to the theodolite bearer
to wrest it from him by sheer force.  A battle took place, the collier was soundly pummelled,
but the natives poured in volleys of stones upon the surveyors and their instruments, and the
theodolite was smashed to pieces.

An outline-survey having at length been made, notices were published of an intended application
to Parliament.  In the mean time Mr. James proceeded to Killingworth to see Stephenson’s locomotives
at work. Stephenson was not at home at the time, but James saw his engines, and was very much
struck by their power and efficiency.  He saw at a glance the magnificent uses to which the
locomotive might be applied.  “Here,” said he, “is an engine that will, before long, effect
a complete revolution in society.”  Returning to Moreton-in-the-Marsh, he wrote to Mr. Losh
(Stephenson’s partner in the patent) expressing his admiration of the Killingworth engine.
“It is,” said he, “the greatest wonder of the age, and the forerunner, as I firmly believe,
of the most important changes in the internal communications of the kingdom.”  Shortly after,
Mr. James, accompanied by his two sons, made a second journey to Killingworth, where he met
both Losh and Stephenson.  The visitors were at once taken to where the locomotive was working,
and invited to mount it.  The uncouth and extraordinary appearance of the machine, as it came
snorting along, was somewhat alarming to the youths, who expressed their fears lest it should
burst; and they were with some difficulty induced to mount.

The engine went through its usual performances, dragging a heavy load of coal-waggons at about
six miles an hour, with apparent ease, at which Mr. James expressed his extreme satisfaction,
and declared to Mr. Losh his opinion that Stephenson “was the greatest practical genius of
the age,” and that, “if he developed the full powers of that engine (the locomotive), his fame
in the world would rank equal with that of Watt.” Mr. James informed Stephenson and Losh of
his survey of the proposed tramroad between Liverpool and Manchester, and did not hesitate
to state that he would thenceforward advocate the construction of a locomotive railroad instead
of the tramroad which had originally been proposed.

Stephenson and Losh were naturally desirous of enlisting James’s good services on behalf of
their patent locomotive, for as yet it had proved comparatively unproductive.  They believed
that he might be able so to advocate it in influential quarters as to ensure its more extensive
adoption, and with this object they proposed to give him an interest in the patent.  Accordingly
they assigned him one-fourth of any profits which might be derived from the use of the patent
locomotive on any railways constructed south of a line drawn across England from Liverpool
to Hull.  The arrangement, however, led to no beneficial results.  Mr. James endeavoured to
introduce the engine on the Moreton-on-Marsh Railway; but it was opposed by the engineer of
the line, and the attempt failed.  He next urged that a locomotive should be sent for trial
upon the Merstham tramroad; but, anxious though Stephenson was respecting its extended employment,
he was too cautious to risk an experiment which might only bring discredit upon the engine;
and the Merstham road being only laid with cast-iron plates, which would not bear its weight,
the invitation was declined.

It turned out that the first survey of the Liverpool and Manchester line was very imperfect,
and it was determined to have a second and more complete one made in the following year.  Robert
Stephenson was sent over by his father to Liverpool to assist in this survey.  He was present
with Mr. James on the occasion on which he tried to lay out the line across Chat Moss,—a proceeding
which was not only difficult but dangerous.  The Moss was very wet at the time, and only its
edges could be ventured on. Mr. James was a heavy, thick-set man; and one day, when endeavouring
to obtain a stand for his theodolite, he felt himself suddenly sinking.  He immediately threw
himself down, and rolled over and over until he reached firm ground again, in a sad mess. 
Other attempts which he subsequently made to enter upon the Moss for the same purpose, were
abandoned for the same reason—the want of a solid stand for the theodolite.

On the 4th October, 1822, we find Mr. James writing to Mr. Sandars, “I came last night to send
my aid, Robert Stephenson, to his father, and to-morrow I shall pay off Evans and Hamilton,
two other assistants.  I have now only Messrs. Padley and Clarke to finish the copy of plans
for Parliament, which will be done in about a week or nine days’ time.”  It would appear however,
that, notwithstanding all his exertions, Mr. James was unable to complete his plans and estimates
in time for the ensuing Session; and another year was thus lost.  The Railroad Committee became
impatient at the delay.  Mr. James’s financial embarrassments reached their climax; and, what
with illness and debt, he was no longer in a position to fulfil his promises to the Committee.
They were, therefore, under the necessity of calling to their aid some other engineer.

Mr. Sandars had by this time visited George Stephenson at Killingworth, and, like all who came
within reach of his personal influence, was charmed with him at first sight.  The energy which
he had displayed in carrying on the works of the Stockton and Darlington Railway, now approaching
completion; his readiness to face difficulties, and his practical ability in overcoming them;
the enthusiasm which he displayed on the subject of railways and railway locomotion,—concurred
in satisfying Mr. Sandars that he was, of all men, the best calculated to help forward the
Liverpool undertaking at this juncture.  On his return he stated this opinion to the Committee,
who approved his recommendation, and George Stephenson was unanimously appointed engineer of
the projected railway.

