Moses stood a moment in silence, and then, turning away without a word, hurried from the house.
He strode along the high rocky bluff, through tangled junipers and pine thickets, till he came
above the rocky cove which had been his favorite retreat on so many occasions. He swung himself
down over the cliffs into the grotto, where, shut in by the high tide, he felt himself alone.
There he had read Mr. Sewell's letter, and dreamed vain dreams of wealth and worldly success,
now all to him so void. He felt to-day, as he sat there and watched the ships go by, how utterly
nothing all the wealth in the world was, in the loss of that one heart. Unconsciously, even
to himself, sorrow was doing her ennobling ministry within him, melting off in her fierce fires
trivial ambitions and low desires, and making him feel the sole worth and value of love. That
which in other days had seemed only as one good thing among many now seemed the only thing
in life. And he who has learned the paramount value of love has taken one step from an earthly
to a spiritual existence.

But as he lay there on the pebbly shore, hour after hour glided by, his whole past life lived
itself over to his eye; he saw a thousand actions, he heard a thousand words, whose beauty
and significance never came to him till now. And alas! he saw so many when, on his part, the
responsive word that should have been spoken, and the deed that should have been done, was
forever wanting. He had all his life carried within him a vague consciousness that he had not
been to Mara what he should have been, but he had hoped to make amends for all in that future
which lay before him,--that future now, alas! dissolving and fading away like the white cloud-islands
which the wind was drifting from the sky. Something that he had never felt before struck him
as appalling in the awful fixedness of all past deeds and words,--the unkind words once said,
which no tears could unsay,--the kind ones suppressed, to which no agony of wishfulness could
give a past reality. There were particular times in their past history that he remembered so
vividly, when he saw her so clearly,--doing some little thing for him, and shyly watching for
the word of acknowledgment, which he did not give. Some willful wayward demon withheld him
at the moment, and the light on the little wishful face slowly faded. True, all had been a
thousand times forgiven and forgotten between them, but it is the ministry of these great vital
hours of sorrow to teach us that nothing in the soul's history ever dies or is forgotten, and
when the beloved one lies stricken and ready to pass away, comes the judgment-day of love,
and all the dead moments of the past arise and live again.

He lay there musing and dreaming till the sun grew low in the afternoon sky, and the tide that
isolated the little grotto had gone far out into the ocean, leaving long, low reefs of sunken
rocks, all matted and tangled with the yellow hair of the seaweed, with little crystal pools
of salt water between. He heard the sound of approaching footsteps, and Captain Kittridge came
slowly picking his way round among the shingle and pebbles.

"Wal', now, I thought I'd find ye here!" he said: "I kind o' thought I wanted to see ye,--ye see."

Moses looked up half moody, half astonished, while the Captain seated himself upon a fragment
of rock and began brushing the knees of his trousers industriously, until soon the tears rained
down from his eyes upon his dry withered hands.

"Wal', now ye see, I can't help it, darned if I can; knowed her ever since she's that high.
She's done me good, she has. Mis' Kittridge has been pretty faithful. I've had folks here and
there talk to me consid'able, but Lord bless you, I never had nothin' go to my heart like this
'ere--Why to look on her there couldn't nobody doubt but what there was somethin' in religion.
You never knew half what she did for you, Moses Pennel, you didn't know that the night you
was off down to the long cove with Skipper Atkinson, that 'ere blessed child was a-follerin'
you, but she was, and she come to me next day to get me to do somethin' for you. That was how
your grand'ther and I got ye off to sea so quick, and she such a little thing then; that ar
child was the savin' of ye, Moses Pennel."

Moses hid his head in his hands with a sort of groan.

"Wal', wal'," said the Captain, "I don't wonder now ye feel so,--I don't see how ye can stan'
it no ways--only by thinkin' o' where she's goin' to--Them ar bells in the Celestial City must
all be a-ringin' for her,--there'll be joy that side o' the river I reckon, when she gets acrost.
If she'd jest leave me a hem o' her garment to get in by, I'd be glad; but she was one o' the
sort that was jest made to go to heaven. She only stopped a few days in our world, like the
robins when they's goin' south; but there'll be a good many fust and last that'll get into
the kingdom for love of her. She never said much to me, but she kind o' drew me. Ef ever I
should get in there, it'll be she led me. But come, now, Moses, ye oughtn't fur to be a-settin'
here catchin' cold--jest come round to our house and let Sally gin you a warm cup o' tea--do
come, now."

"Thank you, Captain," said Moses, "but I will go home; I must see her again to-night."

"Wal', don't let her see you grieve too much, ye know; we must be a little sort o' manly, ye
know, 'cause her body's weak, if her heart is strong."

Now Moses was in a mood of dry, proud, fierce, self-consuming sorrow, least likely to open
his heart or seek sympathy from any one; and no friend or acquaintance would probably have
dared to intrude on his grief. But there are moods of the mind which cannot be touched or handled
by one on an equal level with us that yield at once to the sympathy of something below. A dog
who comes with his great honest, sorrowful face and lays his mute paw of inquiry on your knee,
will sometimes open floodgates of sober feeling, that have remained closed to every human touch;--the
dumb simplicity and ignorance of his sympathy makes it irresistible. In like manner the downright
grief of the good-natured old Captain, and the child-like ignorance with which he ventured
upon a ministry of consolation from which a more cultivated person would have shrunk away,
were irresistibly touching. Moses grasped the dry, withered hand and said, "Thank you, thank
you, Captain Kittridge; you're a true friend."

"Wal', I be, that's a fact, Moses. Lord bless me, I ain't no great--I ain't nobody--I'm jest
an old last-year's mullein-stalk in the Lord's vineyard; but that 'ere blessed little thing
allers had a good word for me. She gave me a hymn-book and marked some hymns in it, and read
'em to me herself, and her voice was jest as sweet as the sea of a warm evening. Them hymns
come to me kind o' powerful when I'm at my work planin' and sawin'. Mis' Kittridge, she allers
talks to me as ef I was a terrible sinner; and I suppose I be, but this 'ere blessed child,
she's so kind o' good and innocent, she thinks I'm good; kind o' takes it for granted I'm one
o' the Lord's people, ye know. It kind o' makes me want to be, ye know."

The Captain here produced from his coat-pocket a much worn hymn-book, and showed Moses where
leaves were folded down.

"Now that ar beats everything," said the Captain, "and we must kind o' think of it for her,
'cause she's goin' to see all that, and ef it's our loss it's her gain, ye know."

"I know," said Moses; "our grief is selfish."

"Jest so. Wal', we're selfish critters, we be," said the Captain; "but arter all, 't ain't
as ef we was heathen and didn't know where they was a-goin' to. We jest ought to be a-lookin'
about and tryin' to foller 'em, ye know."

"Yes, yes, I do know," said Moses; "it's easy to say, but hard to do."

"But law, man, she prays for you; she did years and years ago, when you was a boy and she a
girl. You know it tells in the Revelations how the angels has golden vials full of odors which
are the prayers of saints. I tell ye Moses, you ought to get into heaven, if no one else does.
I expect you are pretty well known among the angels by this time. I tell ye what 'tis, Moses,
fellers think it a mighty pretty thing to be a-steppin' high, and a-sayin' they don't believe
the Bible, and all that ar, so long as the world goes well. This 'ere old Bible--why it's jest
like yer mother,--ye rove and ramble, and cut up round the world without her a spell, and mebbe
think the old woman ain't so fashionable as some; but when sickness and sorrow comes, why,
there ain't nothin' else to go back to. Is there, now?"

Moses did not answer, but he shook the hand of the Captain and turned away.

CHAPTER XLII

LAST WORDS

The setting sun gleamed in at the window of Mara's chamber, tinted with rose and violet hues
from a great cloud-castle that lay upon the smooth ocean over against the window. Mara was
lying upon the bed, but she raised herself upon her elbow to look out.

"Dear Aunt Roxy," she said, "raise me up and put the pillows behind me, so that I can see out--it
is splendid."

Aunt Roxy came and arranged the pillows, and lifted the girl with her long, strong arms, then
stooping over her a moment she finished her arrangements by softly smoothing the hair from
her forehead with a caressing movement most unlike her usual precise business-like proceedings.

"I love you, Aunt Roxy," said Mara, looking up with a smile.

Aunt Roxy made a strange wry face, which caused her to look harder than usual. She was choked
with tenderness, and had only this uncomely way of showing it.

"Law now, Mara, I don't see how ye can; I ain't nothin' but an old burdock-bush; love ain't
for me."

"Yes it is too," said Mara, drawing her down and kissing her withered cheek, "and you sha'n't
call yourself an old burdock. God sees that you are beautiful, and in the resurrection everybody
will see it."

"I was always homely as an owl," said Miss Roxy, unconsciously speaking out what had lain like
a stone at the bottom of even her sensible heart. "I always had sense to know it, and knew
my sphere. Homely folks would like to say pretty things, and to have pretty things said to
them, but they never do. I made up my mind pretty early that my part in the vineyard was to
have hard work and no posies."

"Well, you will have all the more in heaven; I love you dearly, and I like your looks, too.
You look kind and true and good, and that's beauty in the country where we are going."

Miss Roxy sprang up quickly from the bed, and turning her back began to arrange the bottles
on the table with great zeal.

"Has Moses come in yet?" said Mara.

"No, there ain't nobody seen a thing of him since he went out this morning."

"Poor boy!" said Mara, "it is too hard upon him. Aunt Roxy, please pick some roses off the
bush from under the window and put in the vases; let's have the room as sweet and cheerful
as we can. I hope God will let me live long enough to comfort him. It is not so very terrible,
if one would only think so, to cross that river. All looks so bright to me now that I have
forgotten how sorrow seemed. Poor Moses! he will have a hard struggle, but he will get the
victory, too. I am very weak to-night, but to-morrow I shall feel better, and I shall sit up,
and perhaps I can paint a little on that flower I was doing for him. We will not have things
look sickly or deathly. There, Aunt Roxy, he has come in; I hear his step."

"I didn't hear it," said Miss Roxy, surprised at the acute senses which sickness had etherealized
to an almost spirit-like intensity. "Shall I call him?"

"Yes, do," said Mara. "He can sit with me a little while to-night."

The light in the room was a strange dusky mingling of gold and gloom, when Moses stole softly
in. The great cloud-castle that a little while since had glowed like living gold from turret
and battlement, now dim, changed for the most part to a sombre gray, enlivened with a dull
glow of crimson; but there was still a golden light where the sun had sunk into the sea. Moses
saw the little thin hand stretched out to him.

"Sit down," she said; "it has been such a beautiful sunset. Did you notice it?"

He sat down by the bed, leaning his forehead on his hand, but saying nothing.

She drew her fingers through his dark hair. "I am so glad to see you," she said. "It is such
a comfort to me that you have come; and I hope it will be to you. You know I shall be better
to-morrow than I am to-night, and I hope we shall have some pleasant days together yet. We
mustn't reject what little we may have, because it cannot be more."

"Oh, Mara," said Moses, "I would give my life, if I could take back the past. I have never
been worthy of you; never knew your worth; never made you happy. You always lived for me, and
I lived for myself. I deserve to lose you, but it is none the less bitter."

"Don't say lose. Why must you? I cannot think of losing you. I know I shall not. God has given
you to me. You will come to me and be mine at last. I feel sure of it."

"You don't know me," said Moses.

"Christ does, though," she said; "and He has promised to care for you. Yes, you will live to
see many flowers grow out of my grave. You cannot think so now; but it will be so--believe me."

"Mara," said Moses, "I never lived through such a day as this. It seems as if every moment
of my life had been passing before me, and every moment of yours. I have seen how true and
loving in thought and word and deed you have been, and I have been doing nothing but take.
You have given love as the skies give rain, and I have drunk it up like the hot dusty earth."

Mara knew in her own heart that this was all true, and she was too real to use any of the terms
of affected humiliation which many think a kind of spiritual court language. She looked at
him and answered, "Moses, I always knew I loved most. It was my nature; God gave it to me,
and it was a gift for which I give him thanks--not a merit. I knew you had a larger, wider
nature than mine,--a wider sphere to live in, and that you could not live in your heart as
I did. Mine was all thought and feeling, and the narrow little duties of this little home.
Yours went all round the world."

"But, oh Mara--oh, my angel! to think I should lose you when I am just beginning to know your
worth. I always had a sort of superstitious feeling,--a sacred presentiment about you,--that
my spiritual life, if ever I had any, would come through you. It seemed if there ever was such
a thing as God's providence, which some folks believe in, it was in leading me to you, and
giving you to me. And now, to have all lashed--all destroyed--It makes me feel as if all was
blind chance; no guiding God; for if he wanted me to be good, he would spare you."

Mara lay with her large eyes fixed on the now faded sky. The dusky shadows had dropped like
a black crape veil around her pale face.

