"By my faith, a biting jest!" said Prince John. "How like you it, sirs?--Our Saxon subjects
rise in spirit and courage; become shrewd in wit, and bold in bearing, in these unsettled times--What
say ye, my lords?--By this good light, I hold it best to take our galleys, and return to Normandy
in time."

"For fear of the Saxons?" said De Bracy, laughing; "we should need no weapon but our hunting
spears to bring these boars to bay."

"A truce with your raillery, Sir Knights," said Fitzurse;--"and it were well," he added, addressing
the Prince, "that your highness should assure the worthy Cedric there is no insult intended
him by jests, which must sound but harshly in the ear of a stranger."

"Insult?" answered Prince John, resuming his courtesy of demeanour; "I trust it will not be
thought that I could mean, or permit any, to be offered in my presence. Here! I fill my cup
to Cedric himself, since he refuses to pledge his son's health."

The cup went round amid the well-dissembled applause of the courtiers, which, however, failed
to make the impression on the mind of the Saxon that had been designed. He was not naturally
acute of perception, but those too much undervalued his understanding who deemed that this
flattering compliment would obliterate the sense of the prior insult. He was silent, however,
when the royal pledge again passed round, "To Sir Athelstane of Coningsburgh."

The knight made his obeisance, and showed his sense of the honour by draining a huge goblet
in answer to it.

"And now, sirs," said Prince John, who began to be warmed with the wine which he had drank,
"having done justice to our Saxon guests, we will pray of them some requital to our courtesy.--Worthy
Thane," he continued, addressing Cedric, "may we pray you to name to us some Norman whose mention
may least sully your mouth, and to wash down with a goblet of wine all bitterness which the
sound may leave behind it?"

Fitzurse arose while Prince John spoke, and gliding behind the seat of the Saxon, whispered
to him not to omit the opportunity of putting an end to unkindness betwixt the two races, by
naming Prince John. The Saxon replied not to this politic insinuation, but, rising up, and
filling his cup to the brim, he addressed Prince John in these words: "Your highness has required
that I should name a Norman deserving to be remembered at our banquet. This, perchance, is
a hard task, since it calls on the slave to sing the praises of the master--upon the vanquished,
while pressed by all the evils of conquest, to sing the praises of the conqueror. Yet I will
name a Norman--the first in arms and in place--the best and the noblest of his race. And the
lips that shall refuse to pledge me to his well-earned fame, I term false and dishonoured,
and will so maintain them with my life.--I quaff this goblet to the health of Richard the Lion-hearted!"

Prince John, who had expected that his own name would have closed the Saxon's speech, started
when that of his injured brother was so unexpectedly introduced. He raised mechanically the
wine-cup to his lips, then instantly set it down, to view the demeanour of the company at this
unexpected proposal, which many of them felt it as unsafe to oppose as to comply with. Some
of them, ancient and experienced courtiers, closely imitated the example of the Prince himself,
raising the goblet to their lips, and again replacing it before them. There were many who,
with a more generous feeling, exclaimed, "Long live King Richard! and may he be speedily restored
to us!" And some few, among whom were Front-de-Boeuf and the Templar, in sullen disdain suffered
their goblets to stand untasted before them. But no man ventured directly to gainsay a pledge
filled to the health of the reigning monarch.

Having enjoyed his triumph for about a minute, Cedric said to his companion, "Up, noble Athelstane!
we have remained here long enough, since we have requited the hospitable courtesy of Prince
John's banquet. Those who wish to know further of our rude Saxon manners must henceforth seek
us in the homes of our fathers, since we have seen enough of royal banquets, and enough of
Norman courtesy."

So saying, he arose and left the banqueting room, followed by Athelstane, and by several other
guests, who, partaking of the Saxon lineage, held themselves insulted by the sarcasms of Prince
John and his courtiers.

"By the bones of St Thomas," said Prince John, as they retreated, "the Saxon churls have borne
off the best of the day, and have retreated with triumph!"

"'Conclamatum est, poculatum est'," said Prior Aymer; "we have drunk and we have shouted,--it
were time we left our wine flagons."

"The monk hath some fair penitent to shrive to-night, that he is in such a hurry to depart,"
said De Bracy.

"Not so, Sir Knight," replied the Abbot; "but I must move several miles forward this evening
upon my homeward journey."

"They are breaking up," said the Prince in a whisper to Fitzurse; "their fears anticipate the
event, and this coward Prior is the first to shrink from me."

"Fear not, my lord," said Waldemar; "I will show him such reasons as shall induce him to join
us when we hold our meeting at York.--Sir Prior," he said, "I must speak with you in private,
before you mount your palfrey."

The other guests were now fast dispersing, with the exception of those immediately attached
to Prince John's faction, and his retinue.

"This, then, is the result of your advice," said the Prince, turning an angry countenance upon
Fitzurse; "that I should be bearded at my own board by a drunken Saxon churl, and that, on
the mere sound of my brother's name, men should fall off from me as if I had the leprosy?"

"Have patience, sir," replied his counsellor; "I might retort your accusation, and blame the
inconsiderate levity which foiled my design, and misled your own better judgment. But this
is no time for recrimination. De Bracy and I will instantly go among these shuffling cowards,
and convince them they have gone too far to recede."

"It will be in vain," said Prince John, pacing the apartment with disordered steps, and expressing
himself with an agitation to which the wine he had drank partly contributed--"It will be in
vain--they have seen the handwriting on the wall--they have marked the paw of the lion in the
sand--they have heard his approaching roar shake the wood--nothing will reanimate their courage."

"Would to God," said Fitzurse to De Bracy, "that aught could reanimate his own! His brother's
very name is an ague to him. Unhappy are the counsellors of a Prince, who wants fortitude and
perseverance alike in good and in evil!"

CHAPTER XV

     And yet he thinks,--ha, ha, ha, ha,--he thinks
     I am the tool and servant of his will.
     Well, let it be; through all the maze of trouble
     His plots and base oppression must create,
     I'll shape myself a way to higher things,
     And who will say 'tis wrong?
     --Basil, a Tragedy

No spider ever took more pains to repair the shattered meshes of his web, than did Waldemar
Fitzurse to reunite and combine the scattered members of Prince John's cabal. Few of these
were attached to him from inclination, and none from personal regard. It was therefore necessary,
that Fitzurse should open to them new prospects of advantage, and remind them of those which
they at present enjoyed. To the young and wild nobles, he held out the prospect of unpunished
license and uncontrolled revelry; to the ambitious, that of power, and to the covetous, that
of increased wealth and extended domains. The leaders of the mercenaries received a donation
in gold; an argument the most persuasive to their minds, and without which all others would
have proved in vain. Promises were still more liberally distributed than money by this active
agent; and, in fine, nothing was left undone that could determine the wavering, or animate
the disheartened. The return of King Richard he spoke of as an event altogether beyond the
reach of probability; yet, when he observed, from the doubtful looks and uncertain answers
which he received, that this was the apprehension by which the minds of his accomplices were
most haunted, he boldly treated that event, should it really take place, as one which ought
not to alter their political calculations.

"If Richard returns," said Fitzurse, "he returns to enrich his needy and impoverished crusaders
at the expense of those who did not follow him to the Holy Land. He returns to call to a fearful
reckoning, those who, during his absence, have done aught that can be construed offence or
encroachment upon either the laws of the land or the privileges of the crown. He returns to
avenge upon the Orders of the Temple and the Hospital, the preference which they showed to
Philip of France during the wars in the Holy Land. He returns, in fine, to punish as a rebel
every adherent of his brother Prince John. Are ye afraid of his power?" continued the artful
confident of that Prince, "we acknowledge him a strong and valiant knight; but these are not
the days of King Arthur, when a champion could encounter an army. If Richard indeed comes back,
it must be alone,--unfollowed--unfriended. The bones of his gallant army have whitened the
sands of Palestine. The few of his followers who have returned have straggled hither like this
Wilfred of Ivanhoe, beggared and broken men.--And what talk ye of Richard's right of birth?"
he proceeded, in answer to those who objected scruples on that head. "Is Richard's title of
primogeniture more decidedly certain than that of Duke Robert of Normandy, the Conqueror's
eldest son? And yet William the Red, and Henry, his second and third brothers, were successively
preferred to him by the voice of the nation, Robert had every merit which can be pleaded for
Richard; he was a bold knight, a good leader, generous to his friends and to the church, and,
to crown the whole, a crusader and a conqueror of the Holy Sepulchre; and yet he died a blind
and miserable prisoner in the Castle of Cardiff, because he opposed himself to the will of
the people, who chose that he should not rule over them. It is our right," he said, "to choose
from the blood royal the prince who is best qualified to hold the supreme power--that is,"
said he, correcting himself, "him whose election will best promote the interests of the nobility.
In personal qualifications," he added, "it was possible that Prince John might be inferior
to his brother Richard; but when it was considered that the latter returned with the sword
of vengeance in his hand, while the former held out rewards, immunities, privileges, wealth,
and honours, it could not be doubted which was the king whom in wisdom the nobility were called
on to support."

These, and many more arguments, some adapted to the peculiar circumstances of those whom he
addressed, had the expected weight with the nobles of Prince John's faction. Most of them consented
to attend the proposed meeting at York, for the purpose of making general arrangements for
placing the crown upon the head of Prince John.

It was late at night, when, worn out and exhausted with his various exertions, however gratified
with the result, Fitzurse, returning to the Castle of Ashby, met with De Bracy, who had exchanged
his banqueting garments for a short green kirtle, with hose of the same cloth and colour, a
leathern cap or head-piece, a short sword, a horn slung over his shoulder, a long bow in his
hand, and a bundle of arrows stuck in his belt. Had Fitzurse met this figure in an outer apartment,
he would have passed him without notice, as one of the yeomen of the guard; but finding him
in the inner hall, he looked at him with more attention, and recognised the Norman knight in
the dress of an English yeoman.

"What mummery is this, De Bracy?" said Fitzurse, somewhat angrily; "is this a time for Christmas
gambols and quaint maskings, when the fate of our master, Prince John, is on the very verge
of decision? Why hast thou not been, like me, among these heartless cravens, whom the very
name of King Richard terrifies, as it is said to do the children of the Saracens?"

"I have been attending to mine own business," answered De Bracy calmly, "as you, Fitzurse,
have been minding yours."

"I minding mine own business!" echoed Waldemar; "I have been engaged in that of Prince John,
our joint patron."

"As if thou hadst any other reason for that, Waldemar," said De Bracy, "than the promotion
of thine own individual interest? Come, Fitzurse, we know each other--ambition is thy pursuit,
pleasure is mine, and they become our different ages. Of Prince John thou thinkest as I do;
that he is too weak to be a determined monarch, too tyrannical to be an easy monarch, too insolent
and presumptuous to be a popular monarch, and too fickle and timid to be long a monarch of
any kind. But he is a monarch by whom Fitzurse and De Bracy hope to rise and thrive; and therefore
you aid him with your policy, and I with the lances of my Free Companions."

"A hopeful auxiliary," said Fitzurse impatiently; "playing the fool in the very moment of utter
necessity.--What on earth dost thou purpose by this absurd disguise at a moment so urgent?"

"To get me a wife," answered De Bracy coolly, "after the manner of the tribe of Benjamin."

"The tribe of Benjamin?" said Fitzurse; "I comprehend thee not."

"Wert thou not in presence yester-even," said De Bracy, "when we heard the Prior Aymer tell
us a tale in reply to the romance which was sung by the Minstrel?--He told how, long since
in Palestine, a deadly feud arose between the tribe of Benjamin and the rest of the Israelitish
nation; and how they cut to pieces well-nigh all the chivalry of that tribe; and how they swore
by our blessed Lady, that they would not permit those who remained to marry in their lineage;
and how they became grieved for their vow, and sent to consult his holiness the Pope how they
might be absolved from it; and how, by the advice of the Holy Father, the youth of the tribe
of Benjamin carried off from a superb tournament all the ladies who were there present, and
thus won them wives without the consent either of their brides or their brides' families."

"I have heard the story," said Fitzurse, "though either the Prior or thou has made some singular
alterations in date and circumstances."

"I tell thee," said De Bracy, "that I mean to purvey me a wife after the fashion of the tribe
of Benjamin; which is as much as to say, that in this same equipment I will fall upon that
herd of Saxon bullocks, who have this night left the castle, and carry off from them the lovely
Rowena."

"Art thou mad, De Bracy?" said Fitzurse. "Bethink thee that, though the men be Saxons, they
are rich and powerful, and regarded with the more respect by their countrymen, that wealth
and honour are but the lot of few of Saxon descent."

"And should belong to none," said De Bracy; "the work of the Conquest should be completed."

"This is no time for it at least," said Fitzurse "the approaching crisis renders the favour
of the multitude indispensable, and Prince John cannot refuse justice to any one who injures
their favourites."

"Let him grant it, if he dare," said De Bracy; "he will soon see the difference betwixt the
support of such a lusty lot of spears as mine, and that of a heartless mob of Saxon churls.
Yet I mean no immediate discovery of myself. Seem I not in this garb as bold a forester as
ever blew horn? The blame of the violence shall rest with the outlaws of the Yorkshire forests.
I have sure spies on the Saxon's motions--To-night they sleep in the convent of Saint Wittol,
or Withold, or whatever they call that churl of a Saxon Saint at Burton-on-Trent. Next day's
march brings them within our reach, and, falcon-ways, we swoop on them at once. Presently after
I will appear in mine own shape, play the courteous knight, rescue the unfortunate and afflicted
fair one from the hands of the rude ravishers, conduct her to Front-de-Boeuf's Castle, or to
Normandy, if it should be necessary, and produce her not again to her kindred until she be
the bride and dame of Maurice de Bracy."

"A marvellously sage plan," said Fitzurse, "and, as I think, not entirely of thine own device.--Come,
be frank, De Bracy, who aided thee in the invention? and who is to assist in the execution?
for, as I think, thine own band lies as far off as York."

"Marry, if thou must needs know," said De Bracy, "it was the Templar Brian de Bois-Guilbert
that shaped out the enterprise, which the adventure of the men of Benjamin suggested to me.
He is to aid me in the onslaught, and he and his followers will personate the outlaws, from
whom my valorous arm is, after changing my garb, to rescue the lady."

"By my halidome," said Fitzurse, "the plan was worthy of your united wisdom! and thy prudence,
De Bracy, is most especially manifested in the project of leaving the lady in the hands of
thy worthy confederate. Thou mayst, I think, succeed in taking her from her Saxon friends,
but how thou wilt rescue her afterwards from the clutches of Bois-Guilbert seems considerably
more doubtful--He is a falcon well accustomed to pounce on a partridge, and to hold his prey fast."

"He is a Templar," said De Bracy, "and cannot therefore rival me in my plan of wedding this
heiress;--and to attempt aught dishonourable against the intended bride of De Bracy--By Heaven!
were he a whole Chapter of his Order in his single person, he dared not do me such an injury!"

"Then since nought that I can say," said Fitzurse, "will put this folly from thy imagination,
(for well I know the obstinacy of thy disposition,) at least waste as little time as possible--let
not thy folly be lasting as well as untimely."

"I tell thee," answered De Bracy, "that it will be the work of a few hours, and I shall be
at York--at the head of my daring and valorous fellows, as ready to support any bold design
as thy policy can be to form one.--But I hear my comrades assembling, and the steeds stamping
and neighing in the outer court.--Farewell.--I go, like a true knight, to win the smiles of
beauty."

"Like a true knight?" repeated Fitzurse, looking after him; "like a fool, I should say, or
like a child, who will leave the most serious and needful occupation, to chase the down of
the thistle that drives past him.--But it is with such tools that I must work;--and for whose
advantage?--For that of a Prince as unwise as he is profligate, and as likely to be an ungrateful
master as he has already proved a rebellious son and an unnatural brother.--But he--he, too,
is but one of the tools with which I labour; and, proud as he is, should he presume to separate
his interest from mine, this is a secret which he shall soon learn."

The meditations of the statesman were here interrupted by the voice of the Prince from an interior
apartment, calling out, "Noble Waldemar Fitzurse!" and, with bonnet doffed, the future Chancellor
(for to such high preferment did the wily Norman aspire) hastened to receive the orders of
the future sovereign.

CHAPTER XVI

     Far in a wild, unknown to public view,
     From youth to age a reverend hermit grew;
     The moss his bed, the cave his humble cell,
     His food the fruits, his drink the crystal well
     Remote from man, with God he pass'd his days,
     Prayer all his business--all his pleasure praise.
     --Parnell

The reader cannot have forgotten that the event of the tournament was decided by the exertions
of an unknown knight, whom, on account of the passive and indifferent conduct which he had
manifested on the former part of the day, the spectators had entitled, "Le Noir Faineant".
This knight had left the field abruptly when the victory was achieved; and when he was called
upon to receive the reward of his valour, he was nowhere to be found. In the meantime, while
summoned by heralds and by trumpets, the knight was holding his course northward, avoiding
all frequented paths, and taking the shortest road through the woodlands. He paused for the
night at a small hostelry lying out of the ordinary route, where, however, he obtained from
a wandering minstrel news of the event of the tourney.

On the next morning the knight departed early, with the intention of making a long journey;
the condition of his horse, which he had carefully spared during the preceding morning, being
such as enabled him to travel far without the necessity of much repose. Yet his purpose was
baffled by the devious paths through which he rode, so that when evening closed upon him, he
only found himself on the frontiers of the West Riding of Yorkshire. By this time both horse
and man required refreshment, and it became necessary, moreover, to look out for some place
in which they might spend the night, which was now fast approaching.

The place where the traveller found himself seemed unpropitious for obtaining either shelter
or refreshment, and he was likely to be reduced to the usual expedient of knights-errant, who,
on such occasions, turned their horses to graze, and laid themselves down to meditate on their
lady-mistress, with an oak-tree for a canopy. But the Black Knight either had no mistress to
meditate upon, or, being as indifferent in love as he seemed to be in war, was not sufficiently
occupied by passionate reflections upon her beauty and cruelty, to be able to parry the effects
of fatigue and hunger, and suffer love to act as a substitute for the solid comforts of a bed
and supper. He felt dissatisfied, therefore, when, looking around, he found himself deeply
involved in woods, through which indeed there were many open glades, and some paths, but such
as seemed only formed by the numerous herds of cattle which grazed in the forest, or by the
animals of chase, and the hunters who made prey of them.

The sun, by which the knight had chiefly directed his course, had now sunk behind the Derbyshire
hills on his left, and every effort which he might make to pursue his journey was as likely
to lead him out of his road as to advance him on his route. After having in vain endeavoured
to select the most beaten path, in hopes it might lead to the cottage of some herdsman, or
the silvan lodge of a forester, and having repeatedly found himself totally unable to determine
on a choice, the knight resolved to trust to the sagacity of his horse; experience having,
on former occasions, made him acquainted with the wonderful talent possessed by these animals
for extricating themselves and their riders on such emergencies.

The good steed, grievously fatigued with so long a day's journey under a rider cased in mail,
had no sooner found, by the slackened reins, that he was abandoned to his own guidance, than
he seemed to assume new strength and spirit; and whereas, formerly he had scarce replied to
the spur, otherwise than by a groan, he now, as if proud of the confidence reposed in him,
pricked up his ears, and assumed, of his own accord, a more lively motion. The path which the
animal adopted rather turned off from the course pursued by the knight during the day; but
as the horse seemed confident in his choice, the rider abandoned himself to his discretion.

