No support here, you will note, for the recent suggestion that Deans are superfluous.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

DUELLING EXTRAORDINARY.

The contemplated single-stick encounter between Colonel ARCHER-SHEE and Mr. PEMBERTON-BILLING
recalls to mind a ludicrous affair which actually happened some years ago in a foreign city
which I will here call Killemalivo.

Mr. Alec McTavish, a Briton many years resident in that fair capital and editor of the only
English newspaper, had taken up stout verbal cudgels on behalf of the Americans, who had been
viciously attacked in the columns of a local "daily." The United States of the North, in its
capacity of "special" to the entire American continent, comes in for plenty of abuse when a
new revolution is about to be perpetrated.

The strife had waxed fast and furious and eventually had taken on a personal tone, the editor
of La Muera accusing the editor of the English paper of being "that lowest of all living things--a
Texan." It will be remembered that in times gone by the State of Texas decided to desert its
Latin parents and roost under the shadow of the eagle's wing, thereby earning for itself prosperity
and an evil reputation--in certain quarters.

McTavish's editorial reply was a gem of satire and displayed an intimate knowledge of the antecedents
of the rival editor.

At that time duelling was still prevalent, and it was not many days before the editorial sanctum
of The Tribune was honoured by the visit of two officers in full-dress uniform.

The eventual outcome of their visit was that Mr. McTavish found himself pledged to fight a
duel with a man who was, among other things, a first-class pistol shot and exceptionally expert
with the "florette," all of which McTavish was not.

The affair looked particularly unpleasant--to McTavish, who was short, fat, and by no means
young. But the dignity of the foreign population as represented by the editor of The Killemalivo
Tribune must of necessity be upheld.

Faced by this quite unusual difficulty, McTavish bethought him of his old and tried friend,
General O'Flynnone, an Irish-American of many years' residence in the Latin Americas. No one
seemed to know his real name, and the title of General had come to him from his last place.

The General was delighted at the turn of events, agreed to be McTavish's second, and promised
to get him through the affair with a whole skin and no loss of honour.

As the challenged party McTavish had choice of weapons, which was the crux of the situation,
as the General pointed out.

Among the Killemalivo aristocracy the favourite weapons were the duelling pistol and the "florette,"
or rapier. The "pelado," or lower orders, preferred the "lingua de vaca," which means literally
"cow's tongue," a nasty-looking knife of no mean proportions.

As O'Flynnone explained, the duel would have to be fought with "killing weapons"; nothing else
would satisfy the bloodthirsty editor. Meanwhile he would think on the matter, and he advised
McTavish to do likewise.

The following were the most unpleasant days of his life, as McTavish confessed afterwards.
He was not a "conscientious objector," but he had no pressing wish to exterminate his opponent,
as that would have necessitated a sudden and forcible exile from the land of his adoption;
still less did he fancy an early demise in the interests of his paper.

Meanwhile the General visited the rival editor's seconds and arranged for a meeting in his
own rooms to discuss final conditions.

O'Flynnone's rooms contained, among other things, a collection of curious and ancient weapons.
The walls were decorated with all sorts and conditions of strange and barbarous instruments
of slaughter; Zulu assegais, Afghan knives and Burmese swords hung in savage array.

The meeting took place on the following Sunday afternoon. The officers greeted the General
agreeably enough, but saluted McTavish with the stiffness that the occasion called for.

"Well, Señores," commenced the General, after depositing his visitors in the most comfortable
chairs, "to business. Mr. McTavish, as you will admit, has the choice of weapons."

The officers nodded assent.

"This gentleman," continued O'Flynnone, "comes of that most noble and warlike race--the Scotch.
Fiercest of fighters, although they do not sometimes look it, the warriors of Scotland alone
among all nations withstood the ravages of the conquering English. I feel sorry, very sorry
for the 'caballero' whom you have the honour to represent."

The pause which followed was most impressive. The General's air was suggestive of dire things,
as with dramatic suddenness he produced from beneath the sideboard two enormous double-edged
battle-axes, which careful polishing had made to shine as new.

"These," said he, "are the weapons which Mr. McTavish has chosen--weapons of men, such as they
use in his own country," he continued, brandishing one of them savagely. "And the fight will
be on barebacked horses, for such is the custom of the Scotch."

The duel did not occur.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GAME OF HIS LIFE.

I met the mercurial Gosling at the club a few days ago. As I hadn't seen him for some time
I asked if he had been on a holiday. "Yes," he said, "down at Shinglestrand. Golfing? No--yes.
I did play one game, the first since the War, and rather a remarkable game it was. I'm a member
of the golf-club there, and was down at the clubhouse one morning looking at the papers when
a fat middle-aged man, about my age, asked me if I cared for a game. I didn't, but in a spirit
of self-sacrifice said that I should be very glad. 'I think I ought to tell you,' he went on,
'that I don't care about playing with a 18-handicap man, and that I always like to have a sovereign
on the match.' Now I never was much of a player--too erratic, I suppose. My handicap has gone
up from 12 to 18, and the last time I played it was about 24. But, exasperated by his swank,
I suddenly found myself saying, 'My handicap is 12.' 'Very well,' replied the fat man, 'I'll
give you 4 strokes.' We went out to the first tee, and after he had made a moderate shot I
hit the drive of my life. My second landed on the green and I ran down a long putt--this for
a 4-bogey hole. I'm not going to bore you with details. I won the second and third holes, and
then the fat man went to pieces. I never wanted any of my strokes and downed him by 5 and 3.
As we re-entered the club-house my partner, who had become strangely silent, walked up to the
board which gives the list of handicaps and looked at them. There was my name with 18 opposite
it. 'I thought you said your handicap was 12,' he observed. 'Well,' I answered, 'it wasn't
more than that this morning.' The fat man was very angry. He said he would report me to the
committee, and he did. But the secretary (who happens to be my brother) played up nobly. He
communicated with the secretary of the fat man's club, whom he happened to know, and, having
found out that the fat man's handicap was not 6 but 12, he wrote to him to say that in view
of the fact that 'the lies had been equally bad on both sides' the committee did not propose
to take any action. The fat man got no change out of my brother and I kept my sovereign."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Globe Trotters.

  "Mr. and Mrs. ----, of Knysna, are on a
  visit to Knysna."--South African Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

In No Man's Land (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) is revealed a breadth of vision which may astonish
some of us who have been inclined to regard SAPPER as merely a talented story-teller. Among
the writers on the War I place him first, for the simple reason that I like him best; and I
am not at all sure that I should like him any better if he cured himself of his cardinal fault.
With his tongue in his cheek he dashes away from his story to give us either a long or short
digression; no more confirmed digressionist ever put pen to paper, and the wonderful thing
is that these wanton excursions are worth following. True he often apologises for them, but
I do not think that we need take these apologies seriously. This book is divided into four
parts, "The Way to the Land," "The Land," "Seed Time," and "Harvest," and in "Seed Time," at
any rate, we have a series of chapters which require not only to be read but to be thought
over. But whether he is out for fun, as in "Bendigo Jones--His Tree," or for pathos, as in
"Morphia," he obtains his effects without the smallest appearance of effort. And I reserve
a special word of praise for "My Lady of the Jasmine," and commend it to the notice of those
pessimists who hold that only the French and the Americans can write a good short story. Thank
the powers that be for SAPPER.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Loom of Youth (GRANT RICHARDS) is yet another school story, but with a difference, the
difference being, partly at least, that it is written by one who has so lately ceased to belong
himself to the life described that his account must carry an authority altogether unusual.
Here, one feels, is that strange and so-soon-forgotten country revealed for us from within,
and by a native denizen. For this alone Mr. ALEC WAUGH'S book merits the epithet remarkable;
indeed, considered as the work of "a lad of seventeen," its vitality, discretion and general
maturity of tone seem little short of amazing. Realism is the note of it. The modern schoolboy,
as Mr. WAUGH paints him, employs, for example, a vocabulary whose frequency, and freedom may
possibly startle the parental reader. Apart from this one might call the book an indictment
of hero-worship, as heroism is understood in a society where (still!) athletic eminence places
its possessor above all laws. This in itself is so old an educational problem that it is interesting
to find it handled afresh in a study of ultra-modern boyhood. The actual matter of the tale,
individual character in its reaction to system, is naturally common to most school stories;
but even here Mr. WAUGH has contrived to give an ending both original and sincere. Prophecy
is dangerous; but from a writer who has proved so brilliantly that, for once, jeunesse peut,
one seems justified in hoping that enlarged experience will result in work of the highest quality.

       *       *       *       *       *

