THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XIX, NO. 536.] SATURDAY, MARCH 3, 1832. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENTRANCE TO THE BOTANIC GARDEN, MANCHESTER.

Manchester is distinguished among the large towns of the kingdom for its majority of enlightened
individuals. "The whole population," it has been pertinently observed by a native, "seems to
be imbued with a general thirst for knowledge and improvement." Even amidst the hum of its
hundreds of thousand spindles, and its busy haunts of industry, the people have learned to
cultivate the pleasures of natural and experimental science, and the delights of literature.
The Philosophical Society of Manchester is universally known by its excellent published Memoirs:
it has its Royal Institution; its Philological Society, and public libraries; so that incentives
to this improvement have grown with its growth. Among these is the Botanical and Horticultural
Society, formed in the autumn of 1827, whose primary object was "a Garden for Manchester and
its neighbourhood." Previously to its establishment, Manchester had a Floral Society, with
six hundred subscribers, which was a gratifying evidence of public taste, as well as encouragement
for the Garden design.

We find the promised advantages of the plan thus strikingly illustrated in an Address of the
preceding date, "The study of Botany has not been pursued in any part of the country with greater
assiduity and success than in the neighbourhood of Manchester. Far from being confined to the
higher orders of society, it has found its most disinterested admirers in the lowest walks
of life. Though to the skill and perseverance of the cottager we are confessedly indebted for
the improved cultivation of many plants and fruits, an extensive acquaintance with the choicest
productions of nature, and a philosophical investigation of their properties, are very frequently
to be met with in the Lancashire Mechanic. But whilst some knowledge of the principles of Horticulture
is almost universal; and the inferior objects of attention are readily procured, it is obvious
that the difficulty and expense which attend the possession of plants of rare, and more particularly
of foreign growth, form a natural and insurmountable obstruction to the researches of many
lovers of the science...." "Whatever regard is due to the rational gratifications of which
the most laborious life is not incapable, there is a moral influence attendant on horticultural
pursuits, which may be supposed to render every friend of humanity desirous to promote them.
The most indifferent observer cannot fail to remark that the cottager who devotes his hours
of leisure to the improvement of his garden, is rarely subject to the extreme privations of
poverty, and commonly enjoys a character superior to the circumstances of his condition. His
taste is a motive to employment, and employment secures him from the temptations to extravagance
and the natural consequences of dissipated habits."[1] Further, we learn, one great object
of the society is to educate a certain number of young men as gardeners. As "an inviting scene
of public recreation," it is observed, "those who are little interested in the cultivation
of Botany, and who may regard the employments of Horticulture with disdain, may still be induced
to frequent the Botanical garden, for the beauty of the objects, the pleasures of the society,
and the animating gaiety of the scene."

    [1] How pleasingly is the substance of these observations embodied
        in one of our "Snatches from Eugene Aram:"--"It has been
        observed, and there is a world of homely, ay, of legislative
        wisdom in the observation, that wherever you see a flower in a
        cottage garden, or a bird at the window, you may feel sure that
        the cottagers are better and wiser than their neighbours." Vol. i.
        p. 4. Yet with what wretched taste is this morality sought to be
        perverted in an abusive notice of Mr. Bulwer's Eugene Aram, in
        a Magazine of the past month, by a reference to Clark and Aram's
        stealing flower-roots from gentlemen's gardens to add to the
        ornaments of their own. The writer might as well have said that
        Clark and Aram were fair specimens of the whole human race, or
        that every gay flower in a cottage garden has been so stolen.

The Manchester Garden, we should think, must, by this time, have an Eden-like appearance. The
Committee began fortunately. Mr. Loudon, in one of his valuable Gardening Tours,[2] refers
to "a few traits of liberality in the parties connected with it; the noble result, as we think,
of the influence of commercial prosperity in liberalizing the mind. Mr. Trafford, the owner
of the ground, offered it for whatever price the Committee chose to give for it. The Committee
took it at its value to a common farmer, and obtained a lease of the 16 acres (10 Lancashire)
for 99 years, renewable for ever at 120l a year." He describes the donations of trees, plants,
and books, by surrounding gentlemen, as very liberal. Mr. Loudon does not altogether approve
of the plan, and certainly by no means of the manner in which the Garden has been planted,
yet he has no doubt it will contribute materially to the spread of improved varieties of culinary
vegetables and fruits, and to the education of a superior description of gardeners. He commends
the hothouses, which have been executed at Birmingham; especially "the manner in which Mr.
Jones has heated the houses by hot water; though a number of the garden committee were at first
very much against this mode of heating. Mr. Mowbray (who planned the Garden) informed us that
last winter the man could make up the fires for the night at five o'clock, without needing
to look at them again till the following morning at eight or nine. The houses were always kept
as hot as could be wished, and might have been kept at 100° if thought necessary. A young gardener,
who had been accustomed to sit up half the night during winter, to keep up the fires to the
smoke flues (elsewhere) was overcome with delight when he came here, and found how easy the
task of foreman of the houses was likely to prove to him, as far as concerned the fires and
nightwork."

    [2] Gardeners' Magazine, No. XXXIII. August, 1831.

As a means of social improvement, (a feature of public interest, we hope, always to be identified
with The Mirror,) we need scarcely add our commendation of the design of the Botanic Garden
at Manchester, and similar establishments in other large towns of Britain. What can be a more
delightful relaxation to a Lancashire Mechanic than an hour or two in a Garden: what an escape
from the pestiferous politics of the times. At Birmingham too, there is a Public Garden, similar
to that at Manchester, where we hope the Artisan may enjoy a sight at least of nature's gladdening
beauties.

In the suburbs of our great metropolis, matters are not so well managed; though Mr. Loudon,
we think, proposes to unite a Botanic with the Zoological Gardens. Folks in London must study
botany on their window-sills. The wealthy do not encourage it. Their love of the country is
confined to the forced luxuries of kitchen-gardens, conveyed to them in wicker-baskets; and
a few hundred exotics hired from a florist, to furnish a mimic conservatory for an evening
rout. They shun her gardens and fields; but, as Allan Cunningham pleasantly remarks in his
Life of Bonington: "Her loveliness and varieties are not to be learned elsewhere than in her
lap. He will know little of birds who studies them stuffed in the museum, and less of the rose
and the lily who never saw anything but artificial nose-gays."[3]

    [3] Family Library, No. XXVII.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO A SNOWDROP.

A Translation.

(For the Mirror.)

First and fairest of flowery visiter--through the dark winter I have dreamed of thy paleness
and thy purity--youngest sister of the lily--likelier, thou art to be loved for thine own sake.
Can so delicate a thing spring from an Earthly bed? or art thou, indeed, fallen from the heavens
as a Snowdrop? Thus I pluck thee from thy clayey abode, in which, like some of us mortals,
thou wouldst find an early grave. I place thee in my bosom, (oh! that it were half so pure
as thou), and there shalt thou die. Thou comest like a pure spirit, rising from thy earthly
home unsullied and unknown. No longer a child of the dust, thou steppest forth almost too delicately
attired at such a season as this. Ye winds of heaven: "breathe on it gently." Ye showers descend
on my Snowdrop with the tenderness of dew. Little flower, I love thy look of unpretending innocence:
thou art the child of simplicity. Thou art a flower, even though colourless. Wert thou never
gay as others? Where are the hues thou once didst wear? Hast thou lent them to the rainbow,
or to gay and gaudy flowers, or why so pale? Dost thou fear the winter's wind? Canst thou survive
the snow-storm? Tell me: dost thou sleep by starlight, or revel with midnight fairies? My Snowdrop,
I pity thee, for thou art a lonely flower. Why camest thou out so early, and wouldst not tarry
for thy more cautious spring-time companions? Yet thou knowest not fear, "fair maiden of February."
Thou art bold to come out on such a morning, and friendless too. It must be true as they tell
me, that thou wert once an icicle, and the breath of some fairy's lips warmed thee into a flower.
Indeed thou lookest a frail and fairy thing, and thou wilt not sojourn with us long; therefore
it is I make much of thee. Too soon, ah! too soon, will thy graceful form droop and die; yet
shall the memory of my Snowdrop be sweet, while memory lasts. I know not that I shall live
to see thy drooping head another year. A thousand flowers with a thousand hues will follow
after thee, but I will not, I will not forget thee my Snowdrop.

MAJOR CONVOLVULUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR LADY'S CHAPEL, SOUTHWARK.

It may not plainly appear to some readers that our Engraving of this fine vestige of ancient
art, is from a View taken in the year 1818. The Bishop's Chapel, which is there shown, was
demolished about twelve months since, at whose bidding we know not; perhaps of the same party
who now contend for the destruction of the Lady Chapel.

By the way we referred to the Altar Screen, of which we now find the following memorandum in
a History of St. Saviour's Church, published in 1795:[4]

    "Anno 1618. 15 Jac. I.
    "The screen at the entrance to the chapel of the Virgin Mary was
    this year set up."

In the same work occur the particulars of the repairs of the Lady Chapel in 1624:

    "Anno 1624. 21 Jac. I.
    "The chapel of the Virgin Mary was restored to the parishioners,
    being let out to bakers for above sixty years before, and 200l.
    laid out in the repair. Of which we preserve the following extract
    from Stowe:

    "But passing all these, some what now of that part of this church
    above the chancell, that in former times was called Our Ladies
    Chappell.

    "It is now called the New Chappell; and indeed, though very old,
    it now may be called a new one, because newly redeemed from such
    use and imployment, as in respect of that it was built to, divine
    and religious duties, may very well be branded, with the style of
    wretched, base, and unworthy, for that, that before this abuse,
    was (and is now) a faire and beautifull chappell, by those that
    were then the corporation (which is a body consisting of thirty
    vestry-men, six of those thirty, churchwardens) was leased and let
    out, and the house of God made a bake-house. It was first let by the corporation afore named, to
    one Wyat, after him, to one Peacocke, after him, to one
    Cleybrooke, and last, to one Wilson, all bakers, and this
    chappell still imployed in the way of their trade, a bake-house,
    though some part of this bake-house was some time turned into a
    starch-house.

    "The time of the continuance of it in this kind, from the first
    letting of it to Wyat, to the restoring of it again to the church,
    was threescore and some odde yeeres, in the yeere of our Lord God
    1624, for in this yeere the ruines and blasted estate, that the
    old corporation sold it to, were by the corporation of this time,
    repaired, renewed, well, and very worthily beautified: the charge
    of it for that yeere, with many things done to it since, arising
    to two hundred pounds.

    "This, as all the former repairs, being the sole cost and charge
    of the parishioners."

    [4] By M.M. Concanen, jun. and A. Morgan.

A correspondent, E.E. inquires how it happens that the Chapel of St. Mary Magdalen, shown in
all old plans of the Church, has likewise disappeared within the present century? This Chapel
adjoined the South transept, and was removed during the repairs, under the able superintendence
of Mr. Gwilt. It was thus described by Mr. Nightingale in 1818:

    "The chapel itself is a very plain erection. It is entered on the
    south, through a large pair of folding doors, leading down a
    small flight of steps. The ceiling has nothing peculiar in its
    character; nor are the four pillars supporting the roof, and
    the unequal arches leading into the south aisle, in the least
    calculated to convey any idea of grandeur, or feeling of
    veneration. These arches have been cut through in a very clumsy
    manner, so that scarcely any vestige of the ancient church of St.
    Mary Magdalen now remains. A small doorway and windows, however,
    are still visible at the east end of this chapel; the west end
    formerly opened into the south transept; but that also is now
    walled up, except a part, which leads to the gallery there. There
    are in different parts niches which once held the holy water, by
    which the pious devotees of former ages sprinkled their foreheads
    on their entrance before the altar, I am not aware that any other
    remains of the old church are now visible in this chapel. Passing
    through the eastern end of the south aisle, a pair of gates leads
    into the Virgin Mary's Chapel."

From what we remember of the character of this Chapel, the lovers of architecture have little
to lament in its removal. Our Correspondent, E.E., adds--"This, and not the Lady Chapel, it
was, (No. 456 of The Mirror,) that contained the gravestone of one Bishop Wickham, who, however,
was not the famous builder of Windsor Castle, in the time of Edward III., but died in 1595,
the same year in which he was translated from the see of Lincoln to that of Winchester. His
gravestone, now lying exposed in the churchyard, marks the south-east corner of the site of
the aforesaid Magdalen Chapel."

       *       *       *       *       *

SCOTTISH ECONOMY.

SHAVINGS V. COAL AND PEAT.

(To the Editor.)

Without intending to be angry, permit me to inform your well-meaning correspondent, M.L.B.
that his observations on the inhabitants of "Auld Reekie," are something like the subject of
his communication "Shavings," rather superficial.

Improvidence forms no feature in the Scottish character; but your flying tourist charges "the
gude folk o' Embro'" with monstrous extravagance in making bonfires of their carpenters' chips;
and proceeds to reflect in the true spirit of civilization how much better it would have been
if the builders' chips had been used in lighting household fires, to the obviously great saving
of bundle-wood, than to have thus wantonly forced them to waste their gases on the desert air.
But your traveller forgot that in countries which abound in wheat, rye is seldom eaten; and
that on the same principle, in Scotland, where coal and peat are abundant, the "natives," like
the ancient Vestals, never allow their fires to go out, but keep them burning through the whole
night. The business of the "gude man" is, immediately before going to bed, to load the fire
with coals, and crown the supply with a "canny passack o' turf," which keeps the whole in a
state of gentle combustion; when, in the morning a sturdy thrust from the poker, produces an
instantaneous blaze. But, unfortunately, should any untoward "o'er-night clishmaclaver" occasion
the neglect of this duty, and the fire be left, like envy, to feed upon its own vitals, a remedy
is at hand in the shape of a pan "o' live coals" from some more provident neighbour, resident
in an upper or lower "flat;" and thus without bundle-wood or "shavings," is the mischief cured.

I hope that this explanation will sufficiently vindicate my Scottish friends from M.L.B.'s
aspersion. Scotchmen improvident! never: for workhouses are as scarce among them as bundle-wood,
or intelligent travellers. Recollect that I am not in a passion; but this I will say, though
the gorge choke me, that M.L.B. strongly reminds me of the French princess, who when she heard
of some manufacturers dying in the provinces of starvation, said, "Poor fools! die of starvation--if
I were them I would eat bread and cheese first."

The next time M.L.B. visits Scotland, let him ask the first peasant he meets how to keep eggs
fresh for years; and he will answer rub a little oil or butter over them, within a day or two
after laying, and they will keep any length of time, perfectly fresh. This discovery, which
was made in France by the great Reamur, depends for its success upon the oil filling up the
pores of the egg-shell, and thereby cutting off the perspiration between the fluids of the
egg and the atmosphere, which is a necessary agent in putrefaction. The preservation of eggs
in this manner, has long been practised in all "braid Scotland;" but it is not so much as known
in our own boasted land of stale eggs and bundle-wood.

In Edinburgh, I mean the Scottish and not the Irish capital, M.L.B. may actually eat new laid
eggs a year old! How is it that this great comfort is not practised in the navy? The Scotch
have also a hundred other domestic practices for the saving of the hard earned "siller;" and
are far from the commission of any such idle waste as M.L.B.'s story exhibits. S.S.

P.S. Tinder-boxes are unknown in Scotland, and I am sure M.L.B. if he wants a business would
as readily make his fortune by selling them, as the Yorkshireman who went to the West Indies
with a cargo of great coats.

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES

ON MY FORTY-NINTH BIRTHDAY.

(For the Mirror.)

  On the slope of Life's decline,
  The landmark reached of forty-nine,
  Thoughtful on this heart of mine
  Strikes the sound of forty-nine.
  Greyish hairs with brown combine
  To note Time's hand--and forty-nine.
  Sunny hours that used to shine,
  Shadow o'er at forty-nine.
  Of youthful sports the joys decline,
  Symptoms strong of forty-nine.
  The dance I willingly resign,
  To lighter heels than forty-nine.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Yet, why anxiously repine?
  Pleasures wait on forty-nine.

  Social pleasures--joys benign--
  Still are found at forty-nine.
  With a friend to go and dine,
  What better age than forty-nine?
  Ladies with me sip their wine,
  Though they know I'm forty-nine.
  Tea and chat, and wit combine,
  To enliven musing forty-nine.
  Let harmony its chords untwine,
  Music charms at forty nine.
  O'er wasting care let croakers whine,
  Care we'll defy at forty-nine.
  Fifty shall not make me pine--
  Why lament o'er forty-nine.
  Joys let's trace of "Auld Lang Syne,"
  Memory's fresh at forty-nine.
  Then fill a cup of rosy wine,
  And drink a health to FORTY-NINE.

W. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHILOSOPHY OF LONDON.

The Quadrant

The principle of suum cuique is felicitously enforced in that ostentatious but rather heavy
piece of architecture, the Regent Quadrant, the pillars of which exhibit from time to time
different colours, according to the fancy of the shop-owners to whose premises respectively
they happen to belong. Thus, Mr. Figgins chooses to see his side of a pillar painted a pale
chocolate, while his neighbour Mrs. Hopkins insists on disguising the other half with a coat
of light cream colour, or haply a delicate shade of Dutch pink; so that the identity of material
which made it so hard for Transfer, in Zeluco, to distinguish between his metal Venus and Vulcan,
is often the only incident that the two moieties have in common.

Squares.

The few squares that existed in London antecedent to 1770, were rather sheep-walks, paddocks,
and kitchen gardens, than any thing else. Grosvenor Square in particular, fenced round with
a rude wooden railing, which was interrupted by lumpish brick piers at intervals of every half-dozen
yards, partook more of the character of a pond than a parterre; and as for Hanover Square,
it had very much the air of a sorry cow-yard, where blackguards were to be seen assembled daily,
playing at husselcap up to their ankles in mire. Cavendish Square was then for the first time
dignified with a statue, in the modern uniform of the Guards, mounted on a charger, à l'antique,
richly gilt and burnished; and Red Lion Square, elegantly so called from the sign of an ale-shop
at the corner, presented the anomalous appendages of two ill-constructed watch-houses at either
end, with an ungainly, naked obelisk in the centre, which, by the by, was understood to be
the site of Oliver Cromwell's re-interment. St. James's Park abounded in apple-trees, which
Pepys mentions having laid under contribution by stealth, while Charles and his queen were
actually walking within sight of him. The quaint style of this old writer is sometimes not
a little entertaining. He mentions having seen Major-General Harrison "hanged, drawn, and quartered
at Charing-Cross, he (Harrison) looking as cheerful as any man could in that condition." He
also gravely informs us that Sir Henry Vane, when about to be beheaded on Tower Hill, urgently
requested the executioner to take off his head so as not to hurt a seton which happened to
be uncicatrized in his neck!

Modern Building.

We are the contemporaries of a street-building generation, but the grand maxim of the nineteenth
century, in their management of masonry, as in almost every thing else, as far as we can discover,
appears to lie in that troublesome line of Macbeth's soliloquy, ending with, "'twere well it
were done quickly." It is notorious that many of the leases of new dwelling-houses contain
a clause against dancing, lest the premises should suffer from a mazurka, tremble at a gallopade,
or fall prostrate under the inflictions of "the parson's farewell," or "the wind that shakes
the barley." The system of building, or rather "running up" a house first, and afterwards providing
it with a false exterior, meant to deceive the eye with the semblance of curved stone, is in
itself an absolute abomination. Besides, Greek architecture, so magnificent when on a large
scale, becomes perfectly ridiculous when applied to a private street-mansion, or a haberdasher's
warehouse. St. Paul's Church, Covent-Garden, is an instance of the unhappy effect produced
by a combination of a similar kind; great in all its parts, with its original littleness, it
very nearly approximates to the character of a barn. Inigo Jones doubtless desired to erect
an edifice of stately Roman aspect, but he was cramped in his design, and, therefore, only
aspired to make a first-rate barn; so far unquestionably the great architect has succeeded.
Then looking to those details of London architecture, which appear more peculiarly connected
with the dignity of the nation, what can we say of it, but that the King of Great Britain is
worse lodged than the chief magistrate of Claris or Zug, while the debates of the most powerful
assembly in the world are carried on in a building, (or, a return to Westminster Hall,) which
will bear no comparison with the Stadthouse at Amsterdam! The city, however, as a whole, presents
a combination of magnitude and grandeur, which we should in vain look for elsewhere, although
with all its immensity it has not yet realized the quaint prediction of James the First,--that
London would shortly be England, and England would be London.

Morning.

The metropolis presents certain features of peculiar interest just at that unpopular dreamy
hour when stars "begin to pale their ineffectual fires," and the drowsy twilight of the doubtful
day brightens apace into the fulness of morning, "blushing like an Eastern bride." Then it
is that the extremes of society first meet under circumstances well calculated to indicate
the moral width between their several conditions. The gilded chariot bowls along from square
to square with its delicate patrimonial possessor, bearing him homeward in celerity and silence,
worn with lassitude, and heated with wine quaffed at his third rout, after having deserted
the oft-seen ballet, or withdrawn in pettish disgust at the utterance of a false harmony in
the opera. A cabriolet hurries past him still more rapidly, bearing a fashionable physician,
on the fret at having been summoned prematurely from the comforts of a second sleep in a voluptuous
chamber, on an experimental visit to

  "Raise the weak head, and stay the parting sigh,
  Or with new life relume the swimming eye."

At the corners of streets of traffic, and more especially

  "Where fam'd St. Giles's ancient limits spread,"

the matutinal huckster may be seen administering to costermongers, hackney-coachmen, and "fair
women without discretion," a fluid "all hot, all hot," ycleped by the initiated elder wine,
which, we should think, might give the partakers a tolerable notion of the fermenting beverage
extracted by Tartars from mare's milk not particularly fresh. Hard by we find a decent matron
super-intending her tea-table at the lamp-post, and tendering to a remarkably select company
little, blue, delft cups of bohea, filled from time to time from a prodigious kettle, that
simmers unceasingly on its charcoal tripod, though the refractory cad often protests that the
fuel fails before the boiling stage is consummated by an ebullition. Hither approaches perhaps
an interesting youth from Magherastaphena, who, ere night-fall, is destined to figure in some
police-office as a "juvenile delinquent." The shivering sweep, who has just travelled through
half a dozen stacks of chimneys, also quickens every motion of his weary little limbs, when
he comes within sight of the destined breakfast, and beholds the reversionary heel of a loaf
and roll of butter awaiting his arrival. Another unfailing visiter is the market-gardener,
on his way to deposit before the Covent Garden piazza such a pyramid of cabbages as might well
have been manured in the soil with Master Jack's justly celebrated bean-stalk. Surely Solomon
in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. The female portion of such assemblages,
for the most part, consists of poor Salopian strawberry-carriers, many of whom have walked
already at least four miles, with a troublesome burden, and for a miserable pittance--egg-women,
with sundry still-born chickens, goslings, and turkey-pouts--and passing milk-maidens, peripatetic
under the yoke of their double pail. Their professional cry is singular and sufficiently unintelligible,
although perhaps not so much so as that of the Dublin milk-venders in the days of Swift; it
used to run thus,--

  "Mugs, jugs, and porringers,
  Up in the garret and down in the cellar."

They are in general a hale, comely, well-favoured race, notwithstanding the assertion of the
author of Trivia to the contrary.[5]

    [5] "On doors the sallow milk maid chalks her gains.
         Oh! how unlike the milk-maid of the plains!"

The most revolting spectacle to any one of sensibility which usually presents itself about
this hour, is the painful progress of the jaded, foundered, and terrified droves of cattle
that one necessarily must see not unfrequently struggling on to the appointed slaughter-house,
perhaps after three days during which they have been running

  "Their course of suffering in the public way."

On such occasions we have often wished ourselves "far from the sight of city, spire, or sound
of minster clock." One feels most for the sheep and lambs, when the softened fancy recurs to
the streams and hedgerows, and pleasant pastures, from whence the woolly exiles have been ejected;
and yet the emotion of pity isnot wholly unaccompanied by admiration at the sagacity of the
canine disciplinarians that bay them remorselessly forward, and sternly refuse the stragglers
permission to make a reconnoissance on the road. They are highly respectable members of society
these same sheep-dogs, and we wish we could say as much for "the curs of low degree," that
just at the same hour begin to prowl up and down St. Giles's, and to and fro in it, seeking
what they may devour, with the fear of the Alderman of Cripplegate Within before their eyes.
The feline kind, however, have reason to think themselves in more danger at the first round
of the watering cart, for we have often rescued an unsuspicious tortoise-shell from the felonious
designs of a skin-dealer, who was about to lay violent hands on unoffending puss, while she
was watching the process of making bread through the crevices of a Scotch grating.[6]

    [6] They say that no town in Europe is without a Scotchman for an
        inhabitant. This trade in London is generally professed by North
        Britons, and it is always a cause of alarm to a stranger if he
        notices the enormous column of black smoke which is emitted from
        their premises at the dawn, of the morning.

Another animal sui generis, occasionally visible about the same cock-crowing season, is the
parliamentary reporter, shuffling to roost, and a more slovenly-looking operative from sunrise
to sunset is rarely to be seen. There has probably been a double debate, and between three
and five o'clock he has written "a column bould." No one can well mistake him. The features
are often Irish, the gait jaunty or resolutely brisk, but neither "buxom, blithe, nor debonnair,"
complexion wan, expression pensive, and the entire propriety of the toilette disarranged and
degagée. The stuff that he has perpetrated is happily no longer present to his memory, and
neither placeman's sophistry nor patriot's rant will be likely in any way to interfere with
his repose. Intense fatigue, whether intellectual or manual, however, is not the best security
for sound slumber at any hour, more particularly in the morning.

Even at this hour the swart Savoyard (filius nullius) issues forth on his diurnal pilgrimage,
"remote, unfriended, melancholy, slow," to excruciate on his superannuated hurdy-gurdy that
sublime melody, "the hundred and seventh psalm," or the plaintive sweetness of "Isabel," perhaps
speculating on a breakfast for himself and Pug, somewhere between Knightsbridge and Old Brentford.
Poor fellow! Could he procure a few bones of mutton, how hard would it be for his hungry comprehension
to understand the displeasure which similar objects occasioned to Attila on the plains of Champagne!

Then the too frequent preparations for a Newgate execution--but enough of such details; it
is the muse of Mr. Crabbe that alone could do them justice. We would say to the great city,
in the benedictory spirit of the patriot of Venice,--esto perpetua! Notwithstanding thy manifold
"honest knaveries," peace be within thy walls, and plenty pervade thy palaces, that thou mayest
ever approve thyself, oh queen of capitals,

  "Like Samson's riddle in the sacred song,
  A springing sweet still flowing from the strong!"

Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH-BOOK.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCOTTISH SPORTING.

From the letters of two sportsmen; with recollections of the Ettrick Shepherd.

(For the Mirror.)

After visiting Thoms, the sculptor, "Burns's cottage," "Halloway Kirk," Monument, &c., in Ayrshire,
we toddled on over to Dumfries, and had a crack with poor "Rabbie Burns's" widow, not forgetting
McDiarmid the author; thence to Moffat, and up that dismal glen, the pass of Moffat, to the
grey mare's tail, a waterfall, so called from its resembling the silvery tail of a grey mare;
and truly, if the simile were extended into infinitude, which from its sublimity it would admit
of, we might compare its waving, silky stream swinging over the broad face of its lofty grey
rock, to the tail of the pale horse of Revelation, over the chaos of time. It was a sombre,
solemn sort of a day, and the dense clouds hung curtaining down the mountain sides, like our
living pall as it were--I scarcely know how--but we felt dismally until we took a dram and
got into a perspiration, with tugging up the sinuosities of the cliff's, to the summit of the
waterfall. Loch Skein, where we were galvanized, electrified, magnetized, and petrified, all
at once, by the quackery, clackery, flappery, quatter, splatter, clatter, scatter, and dash-de-blash,
and squash, of a flock of wild ducks, on its reedy, flaggy surface; O, what a scutter was there!
Our hearts, too full, leapt into our mouths, but our guns were turned into tons of lead, and
ere we could heave them up to our shoulders of clay, the thousand had fled into the eternal
grey mist of the mountain, like the dispersion of a confused dream. There we stood like two
sumphs, (as Hogg calls those who are ganging a bit aglee in their wits) gaping and staring
at each other with a look which said, why did not you shoot? Our dogs too stood as stiff as
two pumps, with tails standing out like the handles! Apropos--talking of Hogg, the poet, we
called to see him in his half-acre island in Eltrive Lake, and truly we met with that burning
hot reception which we had anticipated from Blackwood's Magazine description of him. We had
no notes of introduction except the notes which our guns pricked upon the echoes of Ettric
Forest, and which James Hogg heard and answered with a view-hallo, for us to "come awa doon
the brae an' tak' a dram o'speerits," and so we did, and in true Highland style; he met us
at the door and gave us a drain from the bottle, first gulping a glass himself of that double-strong
like & fire-eater, without a twink of the eye or a wince of the mouth; and then with a grip
o' the daddle, which made the fingers crack, he pulled us into his bonnie wee bit shooting
box of a house, with a "Come awa ben ye'll be the better o' a bite o' venison pasty;" so in
we went, and were introduced to his bonnie wife and sousy barnes, which latter, Jammie Hogg
nursed as though he lov'd 'em frae the uttermost ends o' his sowl.

Campbell has it against Byron, that "the poetic temperament is incompatible with matrimonial
felicity." Fudge, fudge, Mr. Campbell, did you ever visit James Hogg?

Well, we sat down to take a snack with James and an extraordinary monkey of his, which he has
dressed in the garb of a Highland soldier, and which too, sat down at table, and played his
knife and fork like a true epicure. "An extrornry crater is that wee Heelan-man o' mine, gentlemen,
he can conduc himsel' as weel's ony Christan man at table, and aft when I'm pennin' a bit rhyme
'thegither, the crater'll lowp up 'ith chair anent me and tak' up a pen, in exac emeetation
o' me, and keck into my 'een in his cunnin way, as if he was speering me what to write aboot;
he surely maun ha' a feck o' thocht in his heed if are could gar him spak it; but ye ken his
horsemanship beats a'. I had a spire-haired collie, a breed atween a Heelan lurcher, a grew,
and a wolf, dog, a meety, muckle collie he is for sure--weel, gentlemen, do ye ken, he a' rides
on him when we hoont the tod (fox), an' to see him girt a screep o' red flannin on for a saddle,
that the neer-do-weel toor fra a beggar-wife's tattered duds ane day; an' then to see him lowp
on like a mountebank, and sit skreighin an' chatrin, an' cronkin like a paddock on a clud o'yearth.
O, its a lachin teeklesome sicht for sure--an' then hee'l thud, thud, thud his wee bit neive
'ith shouther 'oth collie, an' steek his toes in his side, just for a' the world like a Newmarket
jockey, an' then hee'l turn him roon behint-afore an' play treeks, till collie gerns at him;
an' then beway o' makin friens again, hee'l streek an' pat him, an' peek the ferlie oot o'
his hurdles; an' then when we're a' ready for gannin awa, to be sure what a dirdum an' stramash
do they twa keek up; an' then aff they flee like the deevil in a gale o' wind, an' are oot
o' sicht before ye can say owr the border an' far awa. But I ha' just been speerin the forester
aboot the tod (fox), an' he gars me gang owr the muir to Ettric Forest, an' leuk in a cleuch
in a rock there is there, an' I shall find the half-peckit banes o' a joop o' mine that stray'd
yestreen. So, gentlemen, if yer fond o' oor kin o' sportin, ye shall hae such a sicht o' rinnin
an' ridin as ye ne'er saw heretofore we your twa een."

We readily accepted the invite, and off we set in company with the "Ettric Shepherd" and his
monkey, and certainly it was a "teeklesome sicht" to see him mounted on the long, lank, wire-haired,
shaggy wolf-dog-grew-lurcher, while he in play was scouring round and round the wild and barren
moor; away and away as swift as the wind, over brae and bourn and bog they went, like a red
petticoated witch on a besom, flying in the storm.

On our way we fell in with the foresters, who were going a deer-stalking; they had a buck to
kill for the duke, so we joined company, and gave that satisfactory shrug of the shoulders,
with the expectation of sport, that a spider would feel while sitting in the corner of a hollow
nut-shell, and seeing his victim already entangled in his web, while he was whetting his appetite
with suspended hope, in dream of anticipated fattenings.

We made the best of our way to the watering-place haunt of the deer. Silence was the word,
and we crept on tip-toe and tip-toe, scarce breathing, keeping ever out of the wind's course;
for they have an ear of silk, and an eye of light, and a scent so exquisite that they could,
if it were possible, hear the tread, see the essence, and scent the breath, of a spirit. This
watering haunt was in a lonely glen, which was commanded, within pistol-shot, by a small clump
of trees, which were under-grown by brushwood and brambles, and wherein we ambushed ourselves.
Ay, there it was, the "gory bed," where "this day a stag must die," just one hundred yards
from that said clump. Hush, hush, silence, silence, "Swallow your brith," says Jammie Hogg,
hush, "Heck, cack, a," says the monkey, "the deevil tak' the monkey," says Jammie, "whist,
whist, hush!"

(To be concluded in our next.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GEORGIAN ERA.

(Concluded from page 124.)

Sheridan.

"In early life, Sheridan had been generally accounted handsome: he was rather above the middle
size, and well proportioned. He excelled in several manly exercises: he was a proficient in
horsemanship, and danced with great elegance. His eyes were black, brilliant, and always particularly
expressive. Sir Joshua Reynolds, who painted his portrait, is said to have affirmed, that their
pupils were larger than those of any human being he had ever met with. They retained their
beauty to the last; but the lower parts of his face exhibited, in his latter years, the usual
effects of intemperance. His arms were strong, although by no means large; and his hands small
and delicate. On a cast of one of them, the following appropriate couplet is stated, by Moore,
to have been written:--

  Good at a fight, but better at a play;
  Godlike in giving; but the devil to pay!

"No man of his day possessed so much tact in appropriating and adorning the wit of others.
He pillaged his predecessors of their ideas, with as much skill and effrontery as he did his
contemporaries of their money. It was his ambition to appear indolent; but he was, in fact,
particularly, though not regularly laborious. The most striking parts of his best speeches
were written and rewritten, on separate slips of paper, and, in many cases, laid by for years,
before they were spoken. He not only elaborately polished his good ideas, but, when they were
finished, waited patiently, until an opportunity occurred of uttering them with the best effect.

"Like that of his great political rival, Pitt, his eloquence required the stimulus of the bottle.
Port was his favourite wine; it quickened, he said, the circulation and the fancy together;
adding, that he seldom spoke to his satisfaction until after he had taken a couple of bottles.
Arthur O'Leary used to remark, that, like a porter, he never was steady unless he had a load
on his head.

"He also needed the excitement of wine when engaged in composition. 'If an idea be reluctant,'
he would sometimes say, 'a glass of port ripens it, and it bursts forth; if it come freely,
a glass of port is a glorious reward for it.' He usually wrote at night, with several candles
burning around him.

"The most serious appointments were, to him, matters of no importance. After promising to attend
the funeral of his friend Richardson, he arrived at the church after the conclusion of the
burial service; which, however, to their mutual disgrace, he prevailed on the clergyman to
repeat. But, notwithstanding his liability to the charge of desecration, even in more than
one instance, he professed, and it is but charitable to presume that he felt, in his better
moments, a deep sense of the worth of piety.

"Sheridan enjoyed a distinguished reputation for colloquial wit. From among the best of the
occasional dicta, &c. attributed to him, the following are selected:--

"An elderly maiden lady, an inmate of a country house, at which Sheridan was passing a few
days, expressed an inclination to take a stroll with him, but he excused himself, on account
of the badness of the weather. Shortly afterwards, she met him sneaking out alone.

'So, Mr. Sheridan,' said she, 'it has cleared up.' 'Yes, madam,' was the reply; 'it certainly
has cleared up enough for one, but not enough for two;' and off he went.

"He jocularly observed, on one occasion, to a creditor, who peremptorily required payment of
the interest due on a long-standing debt,' My dear sir, you know it is not my interest to pay
the principal; nor is it my principle to pay the interest.'

"One day, the prince of Wales having expatiated on the beauty of Dr. Darwin's opinion, that
the reason why the bosom of a beautiful woman possesses such a fascinating effect on man is,
because he derived from that source the first pleasurable sensations of his infancy. Sheridan
ridiculed the idea very happily. 'Such children, then,' said he, 'as are brought up by hand,
must needs be indebted for similar sensations to a very different object; and yet, I believe,
no man has ever felt any intense emotions of amatory delight at beholding a pap-spoon.'

"Boaden, the author of several theatrical pieces, having given Drury lane theatre the title
of a wilderness, Sheridan, when requested, shortly afterwards, to produce a tragedy, written
by Boaden, replied, 'The wise and discreet author calls our house a wilderness:--now, I don't
mind allowing the oracle to have his opinion; but it is really too much for him to expect,
that I will suffer him to prove his words.'

"Kelly having to perform an Irish character, Johnstone took great pains to instruct him in
the brogue, but with so little success, that Sheridan said, on entering the green-room, at
the conclusion of the piece, 'Bravo, Kelly! I never heard you speak such good English in all
my life!'

"He delighted in practical jokes, and seems to have enjoyed a sheer piece of mischief, with
all the gusto of a school-boy. At this kind of sport, Tickell and Sheridan were often play-fellows:
and the tricks which they inflicted on each other, were frequently attended with rather unpleasant
consequences. One night, he induced Tickell to follow him down a dark passage, on the floor
of which he had placed all the plates and dishes he could muster, in such a manner, that while
a clear path was left open for his own escape, it would have been a miracle if Tickell did
not smash two-thirds of them. The result was as Sheridan had anticipated: Tickell fell among
the crockery, which so severely cut him in many places, that Lord John Townshend found him,
the next day, in bed, and covered with patches. 'Sheridan has behaved atrociously towards me,'
said he, 'and I am resolved to be revenged on him. But,' added he, his admiration at the trick
entirely subduing his indignation, 'how amazingly well it was managed!'

"He once took advantage of the singular appetite of Richardson for argument, to evade payment
of a heavy coach-fare. Sheridan had occupied a hackney-chariot for several hours, and had not
a penny in his pocket to pay the coachman. While in this dilemma, Richardson passed, and he
immediately proposed to take the disputant up, as they appeared to be going in the same direction.
The offer was accepted, and Sheridan adroitly started a subject on which his companion was
usually very vehement and obstinate. The argument was maintained with great warmth on both
sides, until at length Sheridan affected to lose his temper, and pulling the check-string,
commanded the coachman to let him out instantly, protesting that he would not ride another
yard with a man who held such opinions, and supported them in such a manner. So saying, he
descended and walked off, leaving Richardson to enjoy his fancied triumph, and to pay the whole
fare. Richardson, it is said, in a paroxysm of delight at Sheridan's apparent defeat, put his
head out of the window and vociferated his arguments until he was out of sight."

The minor or appendix biographies are not so neatly executed as the more lengthy sketches.
It is rather oddly said, "that Alderman Wood shortly before the demise of George the Fourth,
obtained leave to bring in a bill for the purpose of preventing the spread of canine madness."
Again, as the Alderman is a hop-factor, why observe "he is said to have realized a considerable
fortune by his fortunate speculations in hops." This describes him as a mere speculator, and
not as an established trader in hops.

The present volume of the Georgian Era is handsomely printed, and is, without exception, the
cheapest book of the day, considered either as to its merit or size--quality or quantity: what
can transcend nearly 600 pages of such condensed reading as we have proved this work to contain--for
half-a-guinea! Were it re-written and printed in the style of a fashionable novel, it would
reach round the world, and in that case, it should disappear at Terra del Fuego.

The embellishments of the Georgian Era are not its most successful portion; but a fine head
of George I. fronts the title-page. The anecdotes, by the way, will furnish us two or three
agreeable pages anon.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PATRICK NASMYTH.

(For the Mirror.)

This distinguished landscape-painter was the son of Mr. Alexander Nasmyth, an artist who is
still living and well known in Edinburgh, at which city Patrick was born about the year 1785.
His education appears to have been good, and he was early initiated in the art of painting
by his father, who constantly represented to him the many great advantages to be derived from
the study of nature rather than from the old masters' productions, the greater portion of which
have lost their original purity by time and the unskilful management of those persons who term
themselves picture restorers. Far from confining himself to the usual method adopted by most
young artists of servilely imitating old paintings, young Nasmyth very soon began to copy nature
in all her varied freshness and beauty. Scotland contains much of the picturesque, and from
this circumstance he seized every opportunity to cultivate his genius for landscape-painting.
With incessant application he studied the accidental formation of clouds and the shadows thrown
by them on the earth; by which practice he acquired the art of delineating with precision the
most pleasing effects. His style appears very agreeable and unaffected; he excelled however,
only in rural scenery, in which his skies, distant hills, and the barks of the trees, are truly
admirable. His foregrounds are always beautifully diversified, and every blade of grass is
true to nature. He is not equal in every respect to Hobbima, yet certainly approximates nearer
to that celebrated master than any English artist.

In 1830, Mr. Nasmyth sold his valuable collection of original sketches and drawings for thirty
pounds to George Pennell, Esq., who also purchased several of his exquisitely finished pictures,
one of which--a View in Lee Wood, near, Bristol--is now in the possession of Lord Northwick.
Nasmyth was a constant exhibitor at the Royal Academy, the British Institution, &c., and his
performances delighted the uninstructed spectator as well as the connoisseur.

In person, he was of the middle stature, and possessed a manly countenance with an agreeable
figure. In conversation he was vivacious and witty, especially when in company with a convivial
party. His character, in some respects, was similar to that of George Morland; he was rather
too much addicted to convivial pleasures, yet was ever solicitous to mix with the best company,
and his polite manners always rendered him an acceptable guest; in this respect he was unlike
Morland, who, it is well known, loved to select his companions from the lowest class of society.
Although Nasmyth obtained considerable sums for his pictures, he was never sufficiently economical
to save money; on the contrary his private affairs were in a very deranged state. He was never
married, and during the last ten years of his life resided at Lambeth.

Towards the end of July, 1831, Mr. Nasmyth, accompanied by two of his intimate acquaintances,
made an excursion to Norwood for the purpose of sketching. Much rain had fallen the day before,
and the air was still chilly; the artist, however, commenced his drawing, and remained stationary
for about two hours, when, the sketch being finished, he rejoined the friends whom he had left
at an inn. He then complained of being excessively cold, but on taking something warm his usual
spirits returned, and the party passed the rest of the day pleasantly. On the following morning,
however, Nasmyth felt considerably indisposed, and it appeared evident he had taken a violent
cold. Notwithstanding medical assistance, his indisposition daily increased; and on the 18th
of August he breathed his last, in the 46th year of his age.

He died in extreme poverty, and a subscription to defray the expenses of the funeral was raised
among his friends. Wilson, Stanfield, and Roberts subscribed, and followed the remains of their
late talented friend to the grave in St. Mary's churchyard, Lambeth.

G.W.N.

       *       *       *       *       *

PORTRAIT OF CHRIST.

(To the Editor.)

The document giving an account of Jesus Christ, which is referred to by Veritas, in No. 533
of The Mirror, has been long since known to be a glaring forgery. It is one of many stories
invented in the second, third, and fourth centuries, by the early Christians; for a full account
of whose forgeries in such matters, you may consult Mosheim, Lardner, Casaubon, and other ecclesiastical
writers. From which source, beyond question, sprung nearly innumerable books, which that and
the following ages saw published by those who were far from being bad men, under the name of
the Lord Jesus Christ, and of the Apostles, and of other Saints."--Lardner, vol. iv. p. 524.

Dr. Mosheim, among his excellent works, has published a dissertation, showing the reasons and
causes of these supposed letters and writings respecting Christ, the Apostles, &c., to which
I would beg to recommend your correspondent Veritas. JUSTUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEATH OF JOHN HAMPDEN.

The last days of the patriot Hampden are thus graphically told in the Edinburgh Review of Lord
Nugent's recently published "Memorials." We need scarcely observe, by way of introduction,
that Hampden fell in the great contest between Charles and his parliament; and that when the
appeal was to the sword, Hampden accepted the command of a regiment in the parliamentary army,
under the Earl of Essex; the Royal forces being headed by Prince Rupert.

       *       *       *       *       *

SNATCHES FROM EUGENE ARAM.

Consolation for the Loss of Children.--Better that the light cloud should fade away into Heaven
with the morning breath, than travail through the weary day to gather in darkness, and end
in storm!

Prison Solitude.--I have been now so condemned to feed upon myself, that I have become surfeited
with the diet.--Aram.

Sensibility.--We may triumph over all weaknesses but that of the affections.

    [7] Wakefield on "The Punishment of Death."

It is a fearful thing to see men weep.

We are seldom sadder without being also wiser men.

What is more appalling than to find the signs of gaiety accompanying the reality of anguish.

    [8] The remark is in Aristotle. Buffon quotes it in, I think, the
        first volume of his great work.

Progress of Crime.--Mankind are not instantly corrupted. Villany is always progressive. We
decline from right--not suddenly, but step after step.--Aram's Defence.

       *       *       *       *       *

SKETCHES FROM THE TOUR OF A GERMAN PRINCE, VOL. III.

Mrs. Fitzherbert.

"A very worthy and amiable woman, formerly, they say, married to the King, but at present wholly
without influence in that quarter, but no less beloved and respected, d'un excellent ton et
sans pretension."

Her Majesty.

"The Duchess of Clarence honoured the feast with her presence; and all pressed forward to see
her, for she is one of those rare princesses whose personal qualities obtain for them much
more respect than their rank, and whose unceasing benevolence and highly amiable character,
have obtained for her a popularity in England, of which we Germans may well be proud--the more
so, since in all probability she is destined to be one day the Queen of that country."

The King.

"I had the honour of dining with the Duke of Clarence, where I also met the Princess Augusta,
the Duchess of Kent and her daughter, and the Duchess of Gloucester. The Duke makes a most
friendly host, and is kind enough to retain a recollection of the different times and places
where he has before seen me. He has much of the English national character, in the best sense
of the word, and also the English love of domestic arrangement. The daughters of the Duke are
d'un beau sang, all extraordinarily handsome, though in different styles of beauty. Among the
sons Colonel Fitzclarence is, in many respects, the most distinguished. Rarely, indeed, do
we meet with a young officer of such various accomplishments."

The Duchess Of St. A----.

"According to the earliest recollections or her Grace, she found herself a forsaken, starving,
frozen child, in an outshed of an English village. She was taken thence by a gipsy-crew, whom
she afterwards left for a company of strolling players. In this profession, she obtained some
reputation by a pleasing exterior, a constant flow of spirits, and a certain originality--till
by degrees she gained several friends, who magnanimously provided for her wants. She long lived
in undisturbed connexion with the rich banker C----, who, at length, married her, and, at his
death, left her a fortune of 70,000l. a year. By this colossal inheritance, she afterwards
became the wife of the Duke of St. A----, the third English Duke in point of rank, and, what
is a somewhat singular coincident, the descendant of the well-known actress Nell Gwynn, to
whose charms the Duke is indebted for his title, in much the same way (though a hundred years
earlier) as his wife is now for hers.

"She is a very good sort of woman, who has no hesitation in speaking of the past--on the contrary,
is rather too frequent in her reminiscences. Thus she entertained us the whole evening, with
various representations of her former dramatic characters. The drollest part of the affair
was, that she had taught her husband, a very young man, thirty years under her own age--to
play the lover's part, which he did badly enough. Malicious tongues were naturally very busy,
and the more so, as many of the recited passages gave room for the most piquant applications."

Fortune-Telling.

"I Dined to-day with Lady F. Her husband was formerly Governor in the Isle of France, and she
had there purchased from a negress, the pretended prophesying book of the Empress Josephine,
who is said to have read therein her future greatness and fall, before she sailed for France.
Lady F. produced it at tea, and invited the company to question fate, according to the prescribed
forms. Now, listen to the answers, which are really remarkable enough. Mrs. Rothschild was
the first--and she asked if her wishes would be fulfilled. Answer: 'Weary not fate with wishes--one
who has obtained so much, may well be satisfied.' Next came Mr. Spring Rice, a celebrated parliamentary
speaker, and one of the most zealous champions of the Catholic Question. He asked, whether
on the following day when the question was to be brought forward in the upper house, it would
pass. I should here remark, that it is well known here that it will not pass--but that in all
probability in the next session it will. The laconic answer of the book ran thus:--'You will
have no success this time.' They then made a young American lady ask if she should soon be
married. 'Not in this part of the world,' was the answer."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

       *       *       *       *       *

Shakspeare and Garrick.--At the opening dinner of the Garrick Club, the company forgot to drink
the Memory of Shakspeare; and the health of our living dramatists was only proposed when the
party had dwindled from 200 to 20! Where would be the fame of Garrick but for Shakspeare.

Talent has lately been liberally marked by royal favour. Among the last batch of knights are
Mr. Smirke, the architect; Dr. Meyrick, the celebrated antiquarian scholar; and Col. Trench.

"Passing Strange."--The Court Journal, speaking of the deputation of boys from Christ's Hospital
at the Drawing-room, says, "The number of boys appointed to attend on this occasion is 40;
but, owing to the indisposition of one of them, there were no more than 39 present."

Millinery Authorship.--"We must acknowledge our prejudice in favour of an opportunity for the
display of that most courtly of all materials, the train of Genoa velvet; where (as Lord Francis
Levison expresses it)

  Finger-deep the rich embroidery stiffens.
Court Journal.

In a puff precipitate of a play, we are told that M---- "is pleased with his character."

       *       *       *       *       *

  Two cats were placed within a cage,
  And resolving to quarrel, got into a rage,
  They fought so clean, and fought so clever,
  The devil a bit was left of either.

       *       *       *       *       *

