A very sublime idea came suddenly over my mind when in the garden this evening. It was introduced
as I plucked a strawberry from a border on which I had bestowed much cultivation before it
would produce anything; but now, thought I, this is a little like reaping the fruit of my labor.
As I thus ruminated on the produce of the strawberry-bank, I was struck with the thought of
endless felicity, and the sweet reward it would produce for all our toils here below. My mind
was instantly opened to such a glorious scene of divine good that I felt a resignation of heart
to give up all for the enjoyment of [such a foretaste] of endless felicity.

1815.--After the long season of depression through which John Yeardley passed, as described
in the last chapter, the new year of 1815 dawned with brightness upon his mind. He now at length
saw his spiritual bonds loosed; and the extracts which follow describe his first offerings
in the ministry in a simple and affecting manner.

1 mo. 5.--The subject of the prophet's going down to the potter's house opened so clearly on
my mind in meeting this morning that I thought I could almost have publicly declared it; but
not feeling that weight and certainty which I had apprehended should accompany the performance
of such an important act, I was afraid of imparting that to others which might be intended
only for my own instruction; and so it has ended for the present. But I am thankful in hoping
that I am come a little nearer to that state of resignation which was so beautifully exemplified
by our great Pattern of all good, who when He desired the bitter cup might pass from Him, nevertheless
added, "Not my will, but thine be done." And if I am at all acquainted with my inward feelings,
I trust I can in some degree of sincerity say that my heart desires to rejoice more in the
progress of this state of happy resignation, than at the increase of corn, wine, or oil.

He first opened his mouth in religious testimony in the First Month of this year. The occurrence
seems to have taken place in his own family; it yielded him a "precious sense of the Divine
Presence." He began to preach in public a few months later, but not without another struggle
against the heavenly impulse.

The friendship which Joseph Wood entertained for John Yeardley strengthened with revolving
years. When he visited Barnsley, he was accustomed to lodge at his house; and writing to him
in the year 1811, about a public meeting which he felt concerned to hold, he says, "I can with
freedom write to thee, feeling that unity with thy spirit which preserves us near and dear
to each other, and in which freedom runs."

In the Fourth Month of this year, when Joseph Wood received a certificate to visit some of
the midland counties, J.Y. felt desirous "of setting him a little on his way."

On the 14th, he says, we went to Woodhouse, where we had a meeting, and my friend was enabled
to speak very closely to the states of many present. When in the meeting, I felt a very weighty
exercise to attend my mind with an intimation publicly to express it. But this exposure I dared
not yield to, under an apprehension that it might be wrong in me, considering the occasion
on which I had come out; but truly I left the place under a burden which I was scarcely able
to bear.

It was on the 20th of the Fourth Month that he began to speak in public as a minister of the
Gospel. He thus records the event:--

I felt myself in such a resigned frame of mind in our little week-day meeting, that I could
not doubt the time was fully come for me to be relieved from that state of unspeakable oppression
which my poor mind had been held in for so many years past. Soon after I took my seat, my mind
became unusually calm, and the presence of the Most High seemed so to abound in my heart and
spread over the meeting, that after some inward conflict I was unavoidably constrained publicly
to express it, in nearly the following words: "I think I have so sensibly felt the precious
influence of divine love to overshadow our little gathering, that I have been ready to say,
It is good for us to be here; or I might rather say, It is good for us to feel ourselves under
the precious influence of that protecting power which can alone preserve us from the snares
of death." This first [public] act of submission to the divine will was done with as much stability
of mind and body as I was capable of; and I thought the Friends present seemed sensible of
my situation and sympathized with me under the exercise. I trust the sweet peace which I afterwards
felt was a seal to my belief that I had been favored with divine compassion and approbation
in the needful time.

In the Fifth Month John Yeardley attended for the first time the Yearly Meeting in London.
He describes the business as very various and instructive, but bewails his own condition as
that of "one starving in the midst of every good thing."

It seemed at times, he says, as though Satan himself was let loose upon me, and permitted to
try my faith and patience to the utmost; but I hope the conflict had its use in teaching me
to know that it is not by might, nor by power, but by the Lord's Spirit, that we are enabled
to prevail.

This was the commencement of another season of spiritual poverty. In reading a few of his memoranda
during this time, many a Christian traveller may see his own mourning countenance reflected
as in a glass.

11 mo. 8.--I have for a long time felt so depressed in spirit, and so inwardly stripped of
every appearance of good, that I have often secretly had to say with tried Job, "O that I were
as in months past, as in the days when God preserved me!"

16th.--Death and darkness are still the covering of my poor mind, and I am ashamed to acknowledge
that I have for months past sat meeting after meeting a victim to the baneful consequences
of wandering thoughts, scarcely being able to recollect myself so much as to ask excuse of
Him who sees in secret. In these times of deepest desertion I am selfish enough to feel a longing
desire for a ray of light or a smile from the countenance of Him, under whose banner I have
many times sat with the greatest delight in days that are past.

O, how hard it is to regain divine favor when once sacrificed through the sorrowful act of
disobedience! O may I sit as in dust and ashes, and, with the noble resignation and spirit
of a true, dedicated follower, say, I will patiently hear the indignation of the Lord, because
I have sinned against him!

Nevertheless, even in his times of deepest humiliation, moments of heavenly comfort were interspersed.

11 mo. 23.--A more improved meeting than I had reason to hope from cross occurrences, which
are too apt to ruffle the unstable mind. O, thought I, if we could only procure Him on our
side who has the thoughts of all men in his keeping, what should we have to fear! We should
then be brought to acknowledge that it behooves a Christian traveller to crave the assistance
of Him who can enable us to suffer with becoming fortitude and resignation all the afflicting
dispensations of life, rather than desire to be preserved from meeting them.

The hard mutter which is the subject of the next extract embodies a difficulty that has perplexed
many. It is always encouraging to find companionship in doubts and trials, and perhaps the
consideration which pacified the mind of John Yeardley may be helpful to some who are tried
in the same way. The passage, no doubt, has reference to his own want of better success in
business.

11 mo. 30.--When any circumstance in the common course of life, which has appeared to turn
up in the direction of Divine Providence, has not answered my expectation, or on deliberate
consideration it has not seemed prudent for me to step into it, I have sometimes felt greatly
discouraged, and been ready to conclude, How could this thing be ordered under the direction
of best wisdom! But let me ever remember, He who has his way in the whirlwind knows what is
best for us; and were it not for these incitements to an exercise of feeling, the mind would
be apt to lie dormant, and not be preserved alive in a proper state to prove all things and
hold fast that which is best.

About the end of the year he was obliged to spend several days in London on business. The course
of his affairs seems to have been uneven, and the great city was probably uncongenial to his
retired habits. He says:--

12 mo. 15.--I do not remember that my feelings were ever more discouraging, both inwardly and
outwardly. When the mind is ruffled about the things of time, it is hard work to make any progress
towards the land of peace. I try to get to the well of water; but truly it may be said I have
nothing to draw with.

Yet even under these circumstances his daily religious practices--those which no competitor
for the meed of peace and the crown of glory can dispense with--were not without avail.

16th.--In reading and retirement before I left my room, I received a little hope that I should
be preserved in a good degree of patience through the cross occurrences of the day, which was
measurably the case.

The life of a Christian is very much the history of outward and inward trials. How happy it
is when these serve only to deepen his experience! The nature of John Yeardley's spiritual
trials has been fully shown: his temporal crosses have also been glanced at; they consisted
mainly of want of success in business, in which, indeed, he was little fitted to excel, under
the keen competition of modern times.

1816. 1 mo. 4.--A new year has commenced, but the old afflictions are still continued, both
inwardly and outwardly; for even in temporal affairs disappointments rage high. But O what
a privilege to sink down to the anchor-hope of divine support! This is what I can feelingly
acknowledge this evening to be as a brook by the way to refresh my poor and long-distressed
mind. O, how ardently do I desire that this season of adversity may be sanctified to me for
everlasting good, and prove the means of slaying that will in me, which has too long been opposed
to the will of Him who paid the ransom for my soul with nothing less than the price of his
own precious blood.

The difficulty of making his way in the commercial world increased until the risk of "failure
began to stare him in the face." The fear of such a result sank him exceedingly low; but through
all he was permitted to keep his footing upon the rock, and to behold a spiritual blessing
under the guise of temporal adversity.

7th.--Surely it is a mark of divine favor to feel the supporting hand of my heavenly Father
underneath, to bear up my drooping spirits in this time of adversity. I think I was never more
sensible of his powerful arm being made bare for my deliverance; and yet, unaccountable to
tell, I am almost afraid to trust in him. O, my soul, wherefore dost thou doubt, when thou
feelest the glorious presence of thy Redeemer's countenance to shine upon thee?

In the meeting this morning, he continues, my mind was profitably exercised in contemplating
the following subject. When our dear Lord was about to perform the miracle of feeding the multitude,
he commanded them to sit down upon the grass. They were undoubtedly hungry, and this might
create in them too great an anxiety to be satisfied in their own time; but that all things
might be done in order, and without interruption, they were commanded to sit down and wait
the disposal of their food from the bountiful hand of their great Master. In looking at the
subject, I thought it a lively representation of the state of mind we ought to labor after,
when favored to feel hunger and thirst after righteousness; not frustrating the design of the
Most High by being too anxious to be filled in our own will and way, but patiently waiting
the time of Him who giveth to all their meat in due season, and that which is most convenient
for them. And what greater privilege could we desire than to be fed at the Lord's table?

9th.--As my precious wife and I were consoling each other this evening, she remarked that the
dispensation we were now suffering under was probably in answer to our prayers. This brought
strikingly to my remembrance a secret petition which I have frequently put up in the most fervent
manner I have been capable of, when deeply lamenting my unsubjected will; I have even cried
out aloud, "O make me willing; do, Lord, make me willing, make me willing!"

O then may I submit to the means, if for this end they are appointed, and resign my all, body,
soul and spirit, into the hands of Him who gave them; and may I patiently endure the swelling
of Jordan in a manner that will enable me to bring from the bottom, stones of everlasting memorial.

After this he was led for a while by the Good Shepherd into the green pastures and beside the
still waters.

1st mo. 15.--Our Monthly Meeting at Wakefield, and a heavenly meeting it was.

29th.--I left home for a journey into the north on business. I had many precious seasons of
retirement as I rode along, and I humbly trust my soul has been enabled to cultivate a more
intimate acquaintance with her Beloved, in such a way as will not easily be erased from my
remembrance.

Notwithstanding the deep and varied experience he had passed through, his unwillingness to
expose himself as a preacher of the gospel was still strong, and sometimes obstructed the performance
of his duty.

8 mo. 20.--Joseph Wood had a public meeting at Pilley. I felt something on my spirit to communicate
to the people in the early part, but thinking the meeting was not sufficiently settled to receive
it, I reasoned away the right time; another did not offer during the whole meeting for me to
relieve my poor mind, so I brought my burden home with me, which indeed proved such as I really
thought I should have sunk under.

The "severe stripes," as he terms it, which he received on this occasion at length produced
a willing mind.

9 mo. 10.--I went with my dear wife to attend the burial of my cousin Joseph Watts at Woodhouse,
and was at the meeting there on Fourth-day the 11th. It was largely attended by relations and
friends. I felt so sensibly the danger that some present were in of trifling away the reproofs
of conviction, that I could not forbear reviving the language which was proclaimed to the Prophet
Jonah, when he had fled from the presence of the Lord and was fallen asleep in the ship, "What
meanest thou, O sleeper, arise, call upon thy God." After commenting a little on the subject,
I sat down under great solemnity which seemed to cover the meeting, and I can thankfully say
the fruit of obedience was sweet to my taste.

12 mo. 1.--Went to meeting this morning with a fearful apprehension lest I should have to expose
myself in that which is so contrary to my natural inclination. And so it proved; for I had
not sat long, before I was made willing to express what rested weightily on my mind, and that
was the case of Gideon, when the angel appeared to him under the oak as he threshed wheat.
I commented a little on the subject, which afforded me great satisfaction and joy.

In the following entry, notwithstanding the tardy obedience which it records, we find his commission
as one of the Lord's watchmen sealed upon his mind.

1817. 4 mo. 7. In meeting yesterday morning I was enabled publicly to relieve myself of a little
matter which had been a burden on my mind for two or three meetings past, in which I had felt
pretty smartly the rod which, is held over the head of the disobedient. In this instance, human
nature seemed stubborn in a double degree, but after it was over I felt my peace flow as a
river. O what an important charge! May I duly consider the weight of it, and so watch over
my own conduct, in thought, word and action, that I may not be pulling down with one hand that
which I may be endeavoring to build up with the other. If I am to be an instrument in the hand
of the Almighty, may he graciously condescend to prepare and sharpen the arrows he may see
meet to shoot through the medium of his poor servant, so that they may sink deep, wound the
hypocrite, and comfort the pure divine life in the hearts of his children.

4 mo. 29.--I attended another public meeting appointed by J.W. at Middletown, about ten miles
from here. When I entered the town I felt very flat, and was ready to say, The fear of the
Lord is not in this place; but after the meeting was gathered, I soon found what poor creatures
we are, to judge of these things without waiting for best direction; for I think it was the
most extraordinary time I ever knew. My friend bore a long and powerful testimony, to the tendering
of many present. If I ever forget it while in my natural senses, I fear I shall be near losing
my habitation the truth; for it was as if heaven opened, and the Most High poured down his
blessed Spirit in an unbounded degree.

All this time his business affairs went on more and more adversely; and although he never failed
punctually to meet all his money engagements, his want of success led in this year to a change
of residence to Bentham.

Three months before he left Barnsley he writes:--

"Surely there is a vein for the silver, and a place for gold where they fine it." Pecuniary
difficulties seem as if they would eat up every green thing; but I hope and trust that He who
has often said, Peace, be still, will so regulate the heat of the furnace that I may be able
to bear it with becoming patience, until there be nothing left in me but what resembles the
pure gold fit for the Master's use. When I reflect on what my poor mind has passed through
for more than two years past, I am convinced nothing short of that Arm which brought the Israelites
through the Red Sea could have supported me. And O, should he ever loose my hands, that I may
serve Him freely, may I never forget the many covenants made with Him who has so often heard
and answered my prayer when in deep distress!

Through the assistance of some of his Barnsley friends, an offer was made to him of a situation
in a flax-spinning mill at Bentham, which was then or had lately been the property of Charles
Parker, a minister in the Society of Friends. He accepted the offer; and an extract from a
letter to his wife, when on a journey, will show the motives under which he acted in this important
step.

Hawkshead, 6 mo. 28, 1817.

MY VERY PRECIOUS DEAR,

When I wrote thee last, my time and feelings would not permit me to say much on our impending
prospect of leaving Barnsley; but since then this very important subject has obtained my most
serious and weighty consideration, and I am now free to communicate to thee my feelings, in
order that thou mayest weigh them duly and compare them with thy own while we are separated.
In the first place, in taking such a step, we must be reconciled to sacrifice our present comfortable
home, our relations and friends--in short, all that may seem near and dear to us as to the
outward. With respect to our spiritual prospect, I must confess, if any service is designed
for me in the Church militant, I have sometimes apprehended it might be within the compass
of our present Particular and Monthly Meetings; but should this be ordered otherwise in best
wisdom, I trust I shall be relieved from the oppressive feeling, and in a short time see my
way clear. On the other hand, if this change takes place, we have a probability of a comfortable
living, and of being relieved from the extreme anxiety attendant on trade, when the whole responsibility
rests on our own shoulders.

H.R. [one of the firm who had offered to employ him] seemed rather desirous for me to come.
If we should agree, he wants me to go over directly to lay down plans for a few weavers' houses,
and to make other arrangements to save time until we could remove.

I don't much like the situation of the house in the town, but I think another might be had
if required. They have a nice one in Low Bentham, with a good garden attached, which would
be at liberty in next Fifth Month; this would be a pleasant walk from the mill by the water-side
all the way, which might be useful to my health after being confined in the warehouse, and
much nearer to the meeting. It is a very small meeting indeed; there are only about two female
Friends; but, should we be in the right place, the smallness of the number would not preclude
our access to the divine spring.

I don't know how we shall come on with the thread trade, but it seems as if we were to be done
out with both thread and linens, for there is scarcely any thing selling with me on this journey.

John Yeardley and his wife removed to Bentham in the Eighth Month, 1817. Bentham is a considerable
village on the north-west border of Yorkshire, a few miles from the foot of Ingleborough; and
it was at that time, according to the division of the county adopted by the Society of Friends,
comprised in the Monthly Meeting of Settle.

After a season of deep spiritual poverty, during which he found no place for the exercise of
his gift, John Yeardley began to speak in ministry in the little meeting to which he now belonged.
On recording the circumstance he remarks:--

Thus does a gracious Father lead on his children step by step, baptizing them first into one
state and then into another, in order to qualify them to drop a word in season for the comfort
of others. Little did I think under the recent buffetings of the Enemy, that I should ever
have had to open my mouth again in the way of declaring the everlasting goodness of a gracious
Redeemer.

This memorandum was made a few days after the occurrence to which it refers, on his return
from Settle Monthly Meeting, and is accompanied the record of a fresh unfolding to his mental
eye of the need of gospel laborers, and of his own vocation to the work. In my return I had
rather an unusual opening into the state of society, and the great want of laborers therein;
and querying with myself, By whom shall the Lord send? I thought I felt the weight and power
of the everlasting gospel upon me to preach, so that I was willing to say, Here am I; send
me. O the importance of this language! May the same Spirit, which I trust raised it in my heart
preserve me in every state to the end of time! Amen.

The extract which follows treats of the same subject,--the calling and exercise of the ministry.
From this, and from the whole tenor of what has been extracted from the Diary, will be seen
in what his ministry consisted, and what was the call and the power which was required in every
successive exercise of it. May it serve as a word of caution and instruction to such as are
disposed to reduce this heavenly gift to a mere effort of Christian good-will, or to consider
the exercise of it as placed, whether in regard to time or subject, at the disposal of the
minister. It will be observed how John Yeardley, in after life so abundant in word and doctrine,
and so catholic in his ideas and sympathies, received his vocation as a divine gift immediately
from above, and served in it an apprenticeship altogether spiritual, and apart from human learning
or instruction.

10 mo. 26.--I have been very much instructed to-day in reading and reflecting on the 37th chapter
of Ezekiel. When the prophet was asked if the dry bones could live, he was wise enough cautiously
to answer, "O Lord God, thou knowest;" but when he was commanded to prophesy unto them, and
say, "O ye dry bones, hear the word of the Lord," this was hard work, yet there was no conferring
with flesh and blood. No reasoning from probabilities, nothing but an implicit faith and dependence
on the divine power which was then upon him, could have enabled him to do it. O what an instructive
lesson! When the poor instruments may feel so weak and the state of things so low, that there
may not be the least probability of good arising, it is enough if they can only do the will
of their great Master, and be enabled to say with the holy prophet, "I prophesied as the Lord
commanded."

John Yeardley did not take his actual farewell of Barnsley until the end of the year. The reflections
which he has recorded on leaving his home of so many years are very characteristic of the man:--

1818. 1 mo.--The Twelfth Month was spent at Barnsley in settling my affairs. Just before I
left Bentham for that purpose, I was exceedingly unhappy at the idea of leaving my home, friends,
&c. at Barnsley, and thought the parting feeling would be almost more than I could support.
I was enabled to pray fervently to the Father of spirits, that he would be pleased to afford
me strength to bear the change with Christian fortitude, and resign all to the disposal of
his divine will; and thankful I am to relate, he so answered my request that I could leave
the place to which I had been so long attached without a sigh. I have no doubt my removal,
without consulting more of my friends, will appear strange to many. This I could never feel
liberty to do; nor could I make any person living acquainted with my entire motive, but my
precious wife. Whatever may be the opinion of others, this is a matter which rests between
me and my God; and I often think it a favor that we are not accountable to man, who views too
much the outside appearance, while He with whom we have to do looks at the heart.

After I had left Barnsley I went to Pontefract, to spend a few days with my friends there,
where my poor lass had been for a week. I don't know that this time was unprofitably spent;
but this I know--it never requires more care and watchfulness to be preserved in a seasonable
frame of spirit than when the mind is set at ease to enjoy the company of a few intimate friends.
We are too apt to get our thoughts dissipated, and thus our conversation becomes less seasoned
with grace than it would be if the girdle of truth were kept tightly bound.

The next entry notices a remarkable interview which, he had with a woman Friend from America:--

15th.--This day a meeting has been held at the desire of Hannah Field from North America. I
stepped down to see her at J. Stordy's; and in the few minutes we were together, before she
took leave, she addressed herself to me in a very feeling manner. Although she was an entire
stranger, she spoke so pointedly to my state of mind, and expressed the reward of faithfulness
in such encouraging terms, that my feelings were in nowise able to resist the power which attended,
but I was forced to acknowledge it as a nail fastened in a sure place.

Amongst some letters addressed by Elizabeth Yeardley to Susanna Harvey of Barnsley, is one
in which mention is made of the visit of Hannah Field to Bentham; and, although the passage
does not relate to the private interview described above, it is interesting as the reminiscence
of a remarkable woman.

Bentham, 2 mo. 2, 1818.

We have been favored lately with a visit, unexpected but highly acceptable, from that great
minister, Hannah Field, from America. She very much resembles Sarah Lamley; and when she began,
it seemed as if one had been informing her of the state of the meeting. Her discourse began
with the parable of the Ten Virgins, which was very beautiful but awful. Addressing herself
again, she was very consolatory and affecting. She is tall and inclined to embonpoint; her
age fifty-three.

In the Third Month of this year, the Monthly Meeting from which he had recently removed, that
of Pontefract, recorded its approval of his ministry. It is not usual for meetings to do this
in the case of one who has gone to reside elsewhere. The practice at that time was, in Yorkshire
at least, in issuing a certificate of removal for a Friend who had begun to exercise the ministry
and was still under probation, to notice the fact of his preaching, without pronouncing a judgment
upon it. But when the usual document of removal was asked for at the Monthly Meeting, on behalf
of John Yeardley, the meeting paused upon the words which noticed his offerings in the ministry,
and solemnly resolved then and there to give him a full certificate as a minister in unity,
and to "recommend him as such to the Quarterly Meeting." It happened that men and women Friends
were together, the latter remaining whilst Joseph Wood laid a concern for some religious service
before the joint meeting.

John Yeardley remarks on this act of his late Monthly Meeting:--

The concurrence of my friends with my small offerings cannot but feel comfortable and encouraging
to a poor timorous creature like me; but the awful consideration of ranking among the servants
who speak in the Lord's name humbles me to the dust. Surely those who are designed to minister
before the Lord in his holy temple ought to bear the inscription of holiness upon them. The
means by which this inscription, is obtained is so painful to flesh and blood that we are always
ready to shrink from the operation. When we have borne the furnace heated to a certain degree,
we are ready to fancy nothing but pure gold remains; until the refining hand sees meet to administer
fresh [trials], then we are ready again to cry out, If it be thy will, let this cup pass by.

In the Sixth Month he joined Joseph Wood and William Midgley of Rochdale, in visiting some
neighboring meetings. Of Kendal, which was one, he says it appeared to him "as if a remarkable
revival was taking place in those parts;" and he concludes his short account of the journey
with an acknowledgment of the satisfaction he felt in having given up to this little service.

Joseph Wood in his diary relates the same visit more at large. We have extracted the account
of that portion of it in which John Yeardley was engaged, and believe the reader will find
it interesting in several respects.

1818. 6 mo. 10.--Reached my beloved friend John Yeardley's house, in Bentham, about half-past
eight o'clock, where we took up our quarters, and where we were favored with a renewed feeling
of that love which had many times nearly united our spirits together.

On the 11th we spent this day very comfortably with these long-beloved and truly valuable friends,
and in the evening Lad a public meeting appointed for Friends and people of other societies
in their meeting-house in Bentham, about a mile and a half from their house. We walked thither,
it being very pleasant through the fields. The meeting began at half-past six, and held two
hours and a quarter. A pretty many who usually attend meetings, and a great concourse of people
of other societies, attended, that the meeting-house, both above and below stairs, was well
filled, and several were in the passage and in an adjoining room. A precious solemnity mercifully
overshadowed us, whereby the minds of many were prepared to receive what the Lord was pleased
instrumentally to communicate to the many different states; and O that they may individually
profit thereby! for sure it was a time of favor unto many. I had a very long testimony to bear
therein, first from Isaiah lviii. 1, 2. John Yeardley held a pretty long time next, from John
ii. 4. I next, from 1 Cor. xiv. 19.

On the 12th we set out for Wray in Lancashire, five miles, John Yeardley being our guide, taking
his wife and Ann Stordy along with him in a taxed cart. We had a very pleasant ride thither,
down a beautiful valley, through which the river Wenning runs; had on our right hand a line
view of Hornby Castle, now in part gone to decay. Got to Wray about half-past ten, and went
to the meeting, which began at eleven o'clock. Twenty-three persons attended, one of whom appeared
to be of another society. I sat therein for a considerable time in a very low state, and feeling
a concern to stand up, I gave up, although in great weakness: different states opened and were
spoken to in the authority of the gospel; and I had a long testimony to bear from Luke xv.
8. John Yeardley had a pretty long time next, from Lam. iii. 26; afterwards I was concerned
in prayer, and felt truly thankful for the renewed mark of divine favor, and secretly rejoiced
that my lot was cast here.

On the 13th John Yeardley accompanied Joseph Wood to Kendal.

It was with difficulty, says J.W., we got into the town for the crowd of people; the Parliament
being dissolved, and a new election of members about to take place; and there being an opposition
in this county; Henry Brougham, the favorite candidate of the people, against the Lonsdales.
They were waiting his arrival in the town to canvass for votes. After tea I went to Thomas
Wilson's; his house was nearly opposite the inn where Henry Brougham put up. When he arrived
the populace took his horses from the carriage, and hurried him into the town, and to the inn,
four flags flying and a band of music went before him. After he alighted he went into an upper
room, and addressed the largest multitude of people that I ever saw collected, from the window,
for about an hour, in a very impressive manner; and so great was the crowd in the street that
many fainted. All was quiet, and, after he had done, they separated in a becoming manner.

On the 14th we attended their meetings in Kendal. The forenoon meeting began at ten o'clock.
It is large, and was pretty open and satisfactory. I had a long testimony to bear therein,
first, from John xv. 14. John Yeardley had a pretty long time next. He opened from these words:
"O thou, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, manifest thyself that thou yet reignest in Israel."
I next, from Proverbs ix. 12.

After visiting several other meetings, Joseph Wood came to Lancaster, where he was again met
by John Yeardley.

On the 21st we attended both their meetings in Lancaster. The forenoon meeting began at ten
o'clock. When we got there we were agreeably surprised to find dear John Yeardley, who had
walked this morning fifteen miles to meet us. The meeting was large of Friends, and it proved
a time of renewed visitation unto many who were afar off, and of encouragement to those who
were nigh. I had a very long testimony to bear therein, from Matt. xxii. 12. John Yeardley
had a short but very acceptable time next, from Esther iv. 14. Afterwards I was concerned in
prayer.

Elizabeth Yeardley speaks of this visit in one of her letters:--

J.Y. went to Lancaster, though the day was unfavorable. He trudged on foot to meet Joseph Wood,
and got in good time for the meeting, fifteen miles distant, and returned home the same evening.
J. W. was very much favored all the time he was in those parts; he really appears endowed with
astonishing powers.