I found my spirit revive with my good fortune; and, now I was an officer, resolved to maintain
the dignity of my station, against all opposition or affronts; nor was it long before I had
occasion to exert my resolution. My old enemy, the midshipman (whose name was Crampley), entertaining
an implacable animosity against me for the disgrace he had suffered on my account, had since
that time taken all opportunities of reviling and ridiculing me, when I was not entitled to
retort this bad usage; and, even after I had been rated on the books, and mustered as surgeon's
mate, did not think fit to restrain his insolence. In particular, being one day present while
I dressed a wound in a sailor's leg, he began to sing a song, which I thought highly injurious
to the honour of my country, and therefore signified my resentment, by observing that the Scots
always laid their account with finding enemies among the ignorant, insignificant, and malicious.
This unexpected piece of assurance enraged him to such a degree, that he lent me a blow on
the face, which I verily thought had demolished my cheek-bone. I was not slow in returning
the obligation, and the affair began to be very serious, when by accident Mr. Morgan, and one
of the master's mates, coming that way, interposed, and, inquiring into the cause, endeavoured
to promote a reconciliation; but, finding us both exasperated to the uttermost, and bent against
accommodation, they advised us either to leave our difference undecided, till we should have
an opportunity of terminating it on shore, like gentlemen, or else choose a proper place on
board, and bring it to an issue by boxing. The last expedient was greedily embraced by us both;
and, being forthwith conducted to the ground proposed, we stripped in a moment, and began a
furious contest, in which I soon found myself inferior to my antagonist, not so much in strength
and agility, as in skill, which he had acquired in the school of Hockley-in-the-Hole at Tottenham-court.
Many cross buttocks did I sustain, and pegs on the stomach without number, till at last my
breath being quite gone, as well as my vigour wasted, I grew desperate, and collecting all
my strength in one effort, threw in at once, head, hands, and feet, with such violence, that
I drove my antagonist three paces backward into the main hatchway, down which he fell, and
pitching upon his head and right shoulder, remained without sense and motion. Morgan, looking
down, and seeing him lie in that condition, cried, "Upon my conscience, as I am a Christian
sinner, (look you,) I believe his pattles are all ofer; but I take you all to witness that
there was no treachery in the case, and that he has suffered by the chance of war." So saying
he descended to the deck below, to examine into the situation of my adversary, and left me
very little pleased with my victory, as I found myself not only terribly bruised, but likewise
in danger of being called to account for the death of Crampley; but this fear vanished when
my fellow-mate having, by bleeding him in the jugular, brought him to himself, and inquired
into the state of his body, called up to me to be under no concern, for the midshipman had
received no other damage than as pretty a luxation of the os humeri as one would desire to
see on a summer's day. Upon this information I crawled down to the cock-pit, and acquainted
Thompson with the affair, who, providing himself with bandages, etc, necessary for the occasion,
went up to assist Mr. Morgan in the reduction of the dislocation. When this was successfully
performed, they wished me joy of the event of the combat; and the Welshman, after observing,
that, in all likelihood, the ancient Scots and Britons were the same people, bade me "praise
Cot for putting mettle in my pelly, and strength in my limbs to support it." I acquired such
reputation by this rencontre, which lasted twenty minutes, that everybody became more cautious
in behaviour towards me; though Crampley, with his arm in a sling, talked very high, and threatened
to seize the first opportunity of retrieving on shore the honour he had lost by an accident,
from which I could justly claim no merit.

About this time, Captain Oakum, having received sailing orders, came on board, and brought
along with him a surgeon of his own country, who soon made us sensible of the loss we suffered
in the departure of Doctor Atkins; for he was grossly ignorant, and intolerably assuming, false,
vindictive, and unforgiving; a merciless tyrant to his inferiors, an abject sycophant to those
above him. In the morning after the captain came on board, our first mate, according to custom,
went to wait on him with a sick list, which, when this grim commander had perused, he cried
with a stern countenance, "Blood and cons! sixty-one sick people on board of my ship! Harkee,
you sir, I'll have no sick in my ship, by G--d." The Welshman replied, "he should be very glad
to find no sick people on board: but, while it was otherwise, he did no more than his duty
in presenting him with a list." "You and your list may be d--n'd," said the captain, throwing
it at him; "I say, there shall be no sick in this ship while I have the command of her." Mr.
Morgan, being nettled at this treatment, told him his indignation ought to be directed to Cot
Almighty, who visited his people with distempers, and not to him, who contributed all in his
power towards their cure. The bashaw, not being used to such behaviour in any of his officers,
was enraged to fury at this satirical insinuation, and, stamping with his foot, called him
insolent scoundrel, threatening to have him pinioned to the deck, if he should presume to utter
another syllable. But the blood of Caractacus being thoroughly heated, disdained to be restricted
by such a command, and began to manifest itself in, "Captain Oakum, I am a shentleman of birth
and parentage (look you), and peradventure I am moreover." Here his harangue was broken off
by the captain's steward, who, being Morgan's countryman, hurried him out of the cabin before
he had time to exasperate his master to a greater degree, and this would certainly have been
the case; for the indignant Welshman could hardly be hindered by his friend's arguments and
entreaties from re-entering the presence-chamber, and defying Captain Oakum to his teeth. He
was, however appeased at length, and came down to the berth, where, finding Thompson and me
at work preparing medicines, he bade us leave off our lapour to go to play, for the captain,
by his sole word, and power, and command, had driven sickness a pegging to the tevil, and there
was no more malady on board. So saying, he drank off a gill of brandy sighed grievously three
times, poured fort an ejaculation of "Cot pless my heart, liver, and lungs!" and then began
to sing a Welsh song with great earnestness of visage, voice, and gesture. I could not conceive
the meaning of this singular phenomenon, and saw by the looks of Thompson, who at the same
time shook his head, that he suspected poor Cadwallader's brains were unsettled. He, perceiving
our amazement, told us he would explain the mystery; but at the same time bade us take notice,
that he had lived poy, patchelor, married man, and widower, almost forty years, and in all
that time there was no man, nor mother's son in the whole world who durst use him so ill as
Captain Oakum had done. Then he acquainted us with the dialogue that passed between them, as
I have already related it: and had no sooner finished this narration than he received a message
from the surgeon, to bring the sick-list to the quarter-deck, for the captain had ordered all
the patients thither to be reviewed.

This inhuman order shocked us extremely, as we knew it would be impossible to carry some of
them on the deck, without imminent danger of their lives: but, as we likewise knew it would
be to no purpose for us to remonstrate against it, we repaired to the quarter-deck in a body,
to see this extraordinary muster; Morgan observing by the way, that the captain was going to
send to the other world a great many evidences to testify against himself. When we appeared
upon deck, the captain bade the doctor, who stood bowing at his right hand, look at these lazy
lubberly sons of bitches, who were good for nothing on board but to eat the king's provision,
and encourage idleness in the skulkers. The surgeon grinned approbation, and, taking the list,
began to examine the complaints of each as they could crawl to the place appointed. The first
who came under his cognizance was a poor fellow just freed of a fever, which had weakened him
so much that he could hardly stand. Mr. Mackshane (for that was the doctor's name), having
felt his pulse, protested he was as well as any man in the world; and the captain delivered
him over to the boatswain's mate, with orders that he should receive a round dozen at the gangway
immediately, for counterfeiting himself sick; but, before the discipline could be executed,
the man dropped down on the deck, and had well nigh perished under the hands of the executioner.
The next patient to be considered, laboured under a quartan ague, and, being then in his interval
of health, discovered no other symptoms of distemper than a pale meagre countenance and emaciated
body; upon which he was declared fit for duty, and turned over to the boatswain; but, being
resolved to disgrace the doctor, died upon the forecastle next day, during his cold fit. The
third complained of a pleuritic stitch, and spitting of blood, for which Doctor Mackshane prescribed
exercise at the pump to promote expectoration! but whether this was improper for one in his
situation, or that it was used to excess, I know not, but in less than half-an-hour he was
suffocated with a deluge of blood that issued from his lungs. A fourth, with much difficulty,
climbed to the quarter-deck, being loaded with a monstrous ascites, or dropsy, that invaded
his chest so much, he could scarce fetch his breath; but his disease being interpreted into
fat, occasioned by idleness and excess of eating, he was ordered, with a view to promote perspiration
and enlarge his chest, to go aloft immediately. It was in vain for this unwieldy wretch to
allege his utter incapacity; the boatswain's driver was commanded to whip him up with the cat-and-nine-tails;
the smart of this application made him exert himself so much, that he actually arrived at the
puttock shrouds; but when the enormous weight of his body had nothing else to support than
his weakened arms, either out of spite or necessity, he quitted his hold, and plunged into
the sea, where he must have been drowned, had not a sailor, who was in a boat alongside, saved
his life, by keeping him afloat till he was hoisted on board by a tackle.

It would be tedious and disagreeable to describe the fate of every miserable object that suffered
by the inhumanity and ignorance of the captain and surgeon, who so wantonly sacrificed the
lives of their fellow-creatures. Many were brought up in the height of fevers, and rendered
delirious by the injuries they received in the way. Some gave up the ghost in the presence
of their inspectors; and others, who were ordered to their duties, languished a few days at
work among their fellows, and then departed without any ceremony. On the whole, the number
of the sick was reduced to less than a dozen; and the authors of this reduction were applauding
themselves for the services they had done to their king and country, when the boatswain's mate
informed his honour, that there was a man below lashed to his hammock, by direction of the
doctor's mate, and that he begged hard to be released; affirming, he had been so maltreated
only for a grudge Mr. Morgan bore him, and that he was as much in his senses as any man aboard.
The captain hearing this, darted a severe look at the Welshman, and ordered the man to be brought
up immediately; upon which, Morgan protested with great fervency, that the person in question
was as mad as a March hare; and begged for the love of Cot, they would at least keep his arms
pinioned during his examination, to prevent him from doing mischief. This request the commander
granted for his own sake, and the patient was produced, who insisted upon his being in his
right wits with such calmness and strength of argument, that everybody present was inclined
to believe him, except Morgan, who affirmed there was no trusting to appearances; for he himself
had been so much imposed upon by his behaviour two days before, that he had actually unbound
him with his own hands, and had well nigh been murdered for his pains: this was confirmed by
the evidence of one of the waiters, who declared he had pulled this patient from the doctor's
mate, whom he had gotten down, and almost strangled. To this the man answered, that the witness
was a creature of Morgan's, and suborned to give his testimony against him by the malice of
the mate, whom the defendant had affronted, by discovering to the people on board, that Mr.
Morgan's wife kept a gin-shop in Ragfair. This anecdote produced a laugh at the expense of
the Welshman, who, shaking his head with some emotion, said, "Ay, ay, 'tis no matter. Cot knows,
it is an arrant falsehood." Captain Oakum, without any farther hesitation, ordered the fellow
to be unfettered; at the same time, threatening to make Morgan exchange situations with him
for his spite; but the Briton no sooner heard the decision in favour of the madman, than he
got up to the mizen-shrouds, crying to Thompson and me to get out of his reach, for we should
see him play the devil with a vengeance. We did not think fit to disregard his caution, and
accordingly got up on the poop, whence we beheld the maniac (as soon as he was released) fly
at the captain like a fury, crying, "I'll let you know, you scoundrel, that I am commander
of this vessel," and pummel him without mercy. The surgeon, who went to the assistance of his
patron, shared the same fate; and it was with the utmost difficulty that he was mastered at
last, after having done great execution among those who opposed him.

CHAPTER XXVIII

The Captain enraged, threatens to put the Madman to death with his own hand--is diverted from
that resolution by the arguments and persuasion of the first Lieutenant and Surgeon--we set
sail for St. Helen's, join the fleet under the command of Sir C-- O--gle, and proceed for the
West Indies--are overtaken by a terrible tempest--my friend Jack Rattlin has his leg broke
by a fall from the mainyard--the behaviour of Mr. Mackshane--Jack opposes the amputation of
his limb, in which he is seconded by Morgan and me, we undertake the cure and perform it successfully

The captain was carried into his cabin, so enraged with the treatment he had received, that
he ordered the fellow to be brought before him, that he might have the pleasure of pistoling
him with his own hand; and would certainly have satisfied his revenge in this manner, had not
the first lieutenant remonstrated against it, by observing that, in all appearances, the fellow
was not mad, but desperate; that he had been hired by some enemy of the captain's to him, and
therefore ought to be kept in irons till he could be brought to a court-martial, which, no
doubt, would sift the affair to the bottom (by which means important discoveries might be made),
and then sentence the criminal to a death according to his demerits. This suggestion, improbable
as it was, had the desired effect upon the captain, being exactly calculated for the meridan
of his intellects; more especially as Dr. Mackshane espoused this opinion, in consequence of
his previous declaration that the man was not mad. Morgan finding there was no more damage
done, could not help discovering by his countenance the pleasure he enjoyed on this occasion;
and, while he bathed the doctor's face with an embrocation, ventured to ask him, whether he
thought there were more fools or madmen on board? But he would have been wiser in containing
this sally, which his patient carefully laid up in his memory, to be taken notice of at a more
fit season. Meanwhile we weighed anchor, and, on our way to the Downs, the madman, who was
treated as a prisoner, took an opportunity, while the sentinel attending him was at the head,
to leap and frustrate the revenge of the captain. We stayed not long at the Downs, but took
the benefit of the first easterly wind to go round to Spithead: where, having received provisions
on board for six months, we sailed from St. Helen's in the grand fleet bound for the West Indies,
on the ever-memorable expedition of Carthagena.

It was not without great mortification I saw myself on the point of being transported to such
a distant and unhealthy climate, destitute of every convenience that could render such a voyage
supportable, and under the dominion of an arbitrary tyrant, whose command was almost intolerable;
however, as these complaints were common to a great many on board, I resolved to submit patiently
to my fate, and contrive to make myself as easy as the nature of the case would allow. We got
out of the channel with a prosperous breeze, which died away, leaving us becalmed about fifty
leagues to the westward of the Lizard: but this state of inaction did not last long; for next
night our maintop-sail was split by the wind, which, in the morning, increased to a hurricane.
I was awakened by a most horrible din, occasioned by the play of the gun carriages upon the
decks above, the cracking of cabins, the howling of the wind through the shrouds, the confused
noise of the ship's crew, the pipes of the boatswain and his mates, the trumpets of the lieutenants,
and the clanking of the chain pumps. Morgan who had never been at sea before, turned out in
a great hurry, crying, "Cot have mercy and compassion upon us! I believe, we have cot upon
the confines of Lucifer and the d--n'd!" while poor Thompson lay quaking in his hammock, putting
up petitions to heaven for our safety. I rose and joined the Welshman, with whom (after having
fortified ourselves with brandy) I went above; but if my sense of hearing was startled before,
how must my sight have been apalled in beholding the effects of the storm! The sea was swelled
into billows mountain-high, on the top of which our ship sometimes hung as if it were about
to be precipitated to the abyss below! Sometimes we sank between two waves that rose on each
side higher than our topmast-head, and threatened by dashing together to overwhelm us in a
moment! Of all our fleet, consisting of a hundred and fifty sail, scarce twelve appeared, and
these driving under their bare poles, at the mercy of the tempest. At length the mast of one
of them gave way, and tumbled overboard with a hideous crash! Nor was the prospect in our own
ship much more agreeable; a number of officers and sailors ran backward and forward with distraction
in their looks, halloaing to one another, and undetermined what they should attend to first.
Some clung to the yards, endeavouring to unbend the sails that were split into a thousand pieces
flapping in the wind; others tried to furl those which were yet whole, while the masts, at
every pitch, bent and quivered like twigs, as if they would have shivered into innumerable
splinters! While I considered this scene with equal terror and astonishment, one of the main
braces broke, by the shock whereof two sailors were flung from the yard's arm into the sea,
where they perished, and poor Jack Rattlin thrown down upon the deck, at the expense of a broken
leg. Morgan and I ran immediately to his assistance, and found a splinter of the shin-bone
thrust by the violence of the fall through the skin; as this was a case of too great consequence
to be treated without the authority of the doctor I went down to his cabin to inform him of
the accident, as well as to bring up dressings which we always kept ready prepared. I entered
his apartment without any ceremony, and, by the glimmering of a lamp, perceived him on his
knees before something that very much resembled a crucifix; but this I will not insist upon,
that I may not seem too much a slave to common report, which indeed assisted my conjecture
on this occasion, by representing Dr. Mackshane as a member of the church of Rome. Be this
as it will, he got up in a sort of confusion, occasioned (I suppose) by his being disturbed
in his devotion, and in a trice snatched the subject of my suspicion from my sight.

After making an apology for my intrusion, I acquainted him with the situation of Rattlin, but
could by no means prevail upon him to visit him on deck, where he lay; he bade me desire the
boatswain to order some of the men to carry him down to the cockpit, "and in the meantime,"
said he, "I will direct Thompson to get ready the dressings." When I signified to the boatswain
the doctor's desire, he swore a terrible oath, that he could not spare one man from deck, because
he expected the mast would go by the board every minute. This piece of information did not
at all contribute to my peace of mind; however, as my friend Rattlin complained very much,
with the assistance of Morgan I supported him to the lower deck, whither Mr. Mackshane, after
much entreaty, ventured to come, attended by Thompson, with a box full of dressings, and his
own servant, who carried a whole set of capital instruments. He examined the fracture and the
wound, and concluding, from a livid colour extending itself upon the limb, that mortification
would ensue, resolved to amputate the leg immediately. This was a dreadful sentence to the
patient, who, recruiting himself with a quid of tobacco, pronounced with a woful countenance,
"What! is there no remedy, doctor! must I be dock'd? can't you splice it?" "Assuredly, Doctor
Mackshane," said the first mate, "with submission, and deference, and veneration, to your superior
apilities, and opportunities, and stations, look you, I do apprehend, and conjure, and aver,
that there is no occasion nor necessity to smite off this poor man's leg." "God Almighty bless
you, dear Welshman!" cried Rattlin, "may you have fair wind and weather wheresoever you're
bound, and come to an anchor in the road of heaven at last!" Mackshane, very much incensed
at his mate's differing in opinion from him, so openly, answered, that he was not bound to
give an account of his practice to him; and in a peremptory tone, ordered him to apply the
tourniquet. At the sight of which, Jack, starting up, cried, "Avast, avast! D--n my heart,
if you clap your nippers on me, till I know wherefore! Mr. Random, won't you lend a hand towards
saving my precious limb! Odd's heart, if Lieutenant Bowling was here, he would not suffer Jack
Rattlin's leg to be chopped off like a piece of old junk."

This pathetic address to me, joined to my inclination to serve my honest friend, and the reasons
I had to believe there was no danger in delaying the amputation, induced me to declare myself
of the first mate's opinion, and affirm that the preternatural colour of the skin was owing
to an inflammation, occasioned by a contusion, and common in all such cases, without any indication
of an approaching gangrene. Morgan, who had a great opinion of my skill, manifestly exulted
in my fellowship, and asked Thompson's sentiments in the matter, in hopes of strengthening
our association with him too; but he, being of a meek disposition, and either dreading the
enmity of the surgeon, or speaking the dictates of his own judgment, in a modest manner espoused
the opinion of Mackshane, who by this time having consulted with himself, determined to act
in such a manner as to screen himself from censure, and at the same time revenge himself on
us, for our arrogance in contradicting him. With this view, he asked if we would undertake
to cure the leg at our peril: that is, be answerable for the consequence. To this question,
Morgan replied, that the lives of his creatures are at the hands of Cot alone; and it would
be great presumption in him to undertake for an event that was in the power of his Maker, no
more than the doctor could promise to cure all the sick to whom he administered his assistance;
but if the patient would put himself under our direction, we would do our endeavour to bring
his distemper to a favourable issue, to which at present we saw no obstruction.

I signified my concurrence; and Rattlin was so overjoyed that, shaking us both by the hands,
he swore nobody else should touch him, and, if he died, his blood should be upon his own head.
Mr. Mackshane, flattering himself with the prospect of our miscarriage, went away, and left
us to manage it as we should think proper; accordingly, having sawed off part of the splinter
that stuck through the skin, we reduced the fracture, dressed the wound, applied the eighteen-tailed
bandage, and put the leg in a box, secundam artem. Everything succeeded according to our wish,
and we had the satisfaction of not only preserving the poor fellow's leg, but likewise of rendering
the doctor contemptible among the ship's company, who had all their eyes on us during the course
of this cure, which was completed in six weeks.

CHAPTER XXIX

Mackshane's malice--I am taken up and imprisoned for a spy--Morgan meets with the same fate--Thompson
is tampered with to turn evidence against us--disdains the proposal, and is maltreated for
his integrity--Morgan is released to assist the Surgeon during an engagement with some French
ships-of-war--I remain fettered on the poop, exposed to the enemy's shot, and grow delirious
with fear--am comforted after the battle by Morgan, who speaks freely of the captain, is overheard
by the sentinel, who informs against him, and again imprisoned--Thompson grows desperate, and,
notwithstanding the remonstrances of Morgan and me, goes overboard in the night

In the meantime the storm subsided into a brisk gale, that carried us into the warm latitudes,
where the weather became intolerable, and the crew very sickly. The doctor left nothing unattempted
towards the completion of his vengeance against the Welshman and me. He went among the sick
under pretence of inquiring into their grievances, with a view of picking up complaints to
our prejudice; but, finding himself frustrated in that expectation by the goodwill we had procured
from the patients by our diligence and humanity, he took the resolution of listening to our
conversation, by hiding himself behind the canvas that surrounded our berth; here too he was
detected by the boy of our mess, who acquainted us with this piece of behaviour, and one night,
while we were picking a large bone of salt beef, Morgan discerned something stir on the outside
of our hangings, which immediately interpreting to be the doctor, he tipped me the wink, and
pointed to the place, where I could perceive somebody standing; upon which, I snatched up the
bone, and levelled it with all my force at him, saying, "Whoever you are, take that for your
curiosity." It had the desired effect, for we heard the listener tumble down, and afterwards
crawl to his own cabin. I applauded myself much for this feat, which turned out one of the
most unlucky exploits of my life, Mackshane, from that time, marking me out for destruction.

About a week after this exploit, as I was going my rounds among the sick, I was taken prisoner,
and carried to the poop by the master-at-arms, where I was loaded with irons, and stapled to
the deck, on pretence that I was a spy on board, and had conspired against the captain's life.
How ridiculous soever this imputation was, I did not fail to suffer by it all the rigour that
could be shown to the worst of criminals, being exposed in this miserable condition to the
scorching heat of the sun by day, and the unwholesome damps by night, during the space of twelve
days, in which I was neither brought to trial, nor examined touching the probability of the
charge. I had no sooner recovered the use of my reflection, which had been quite overthrown
by this accident, than I sent for Thompson, who, after condoling me on the occasion, hinted,
that I owed this misfortune to the hatred of the doctor, who had given an information against
me to the captain, in consequence of which I was arrested, and all my papers seized. While
I was cursing my capricious fate, I saw Morgan ascend the poop, guarded by two corporals, who
made him sit down by me, that he might be pinioned in the same machine. Notwithstanding my
situation, I could scarce refrain from laughing at the countenance of my fellow prisoner, who,
without speaking one word, allowed his feet to be inclosed in the rings provided for that purpose;
but, when they pretended to fasten him on his back he grew outrageous, and drawing a large
couteau from his side-pocket, threatened to rip up the belly of the first man that should approach
him, in order to treat him in such an unworthy manner. They were prepared to use him very roughly,
when the lieutenant on the quarter-deck called up to them to let him remain as he was. He then
crept towards me, and, taking me by the hand, bade me "put my trust in Cot." And looking at
Thompson, who sat by us trembling, with a pale visage; told him there were two more rings for
his feet, and he should be glad to find him in such good company. But it was not the intention
of our adversary to include the second mate in our fate: him he expected to be his drudge in
attending the sick and, if possible, his evidence against us: with this view he sounded him
afar off, but, finding his integrity incorruptible, harrassed him so much out of spite, that
in a short time this mild creature grew weary of his life.

While I and my fellow prisoner comforted each other in our tribulation, the admiral discovered
four sail to leeward and made signal for our ship and four more to chase: hereupon everything
was cleared for an engagement, and Mackshane, foreseeing he should have occasion for more assistants
than one obtained Morgan's liberty, while I was let in this deplorable posture to the chance
of battle. It was almost dark when we came up with the sternmost chase, which we hailed, and
inquired who they were. They gave us to understand they were French men-of-war, upon which
Captain Oakum commanded them to send their boat on board of him! but they refused, telling
him, if he had any business with them, to come on board of their ship: he then threatened to
pour in a broadside upon them, which they promised to retain. Both sides were as good as their
word, and the engagement began with great fury. The reader may guess how I passed my time,
lying in this helpless situation, amidst the terrors of a sea-fight; expecting every moment
to be cut asunder, or dashed in pieces by the enemy's shot! I endeavoured to compose myself
as much as possible, by reflecting that I was not a whit more exposed than those who were stationed
about me; but, when I beheld them employed without intermission in annoying the foe, and encouraged
by the society and behaviour of one another, I could easily perceive a wide difference between
their condition and mine: however, I concealed my agitation as well as I could till the head
of the officer of marines who stood near me, being shot off, bounced from the deck athwart
my face, leaving me well nigh blinded with brains. I could contain myself no longer, but began
to bellow with all the strength of my lungs; when a drummer, coming towards me asked if I was
wounded, and, before I could answer, received a great shot in his belly, which tore out his
entrails, and he fell flat on my breast. This accident entirely bereft me of all discretion;
I redoubled my cries, which were drowned in the noise of the battle; and, finding myself disregarded,
lost all patience, and became frantic. I vented my rage in oaths and execrations, till my spirits,
being quite exhausted, I remained quiet, as insensible of the load that oppressed me.

The engagement lasted till broad day, when Captain Oakum, finding he was like to gain neither
honour nor advantage by the affair, pretended to be undeceived by seeing their colours; and,
hailing the ship whom he had fought all night, protested he believed them Spaniards; and the
guns being silenced on each side, ordered the barge to be hoisted out, and went on board the
French commodore. Our loss amounted to ten killed, and eighteen wounded, most part of whom
afterwards died. My fellow-mates had no sooner despatched their business in the cock-pit, than,
full of friendly concern, they came to visit me. Morgan, ascending first, and seeing my face
almost covered with brains and blood, concluded I was no longer a man for this world; and,
calling to Thompson with great emotion, bade him come up, and take his last farewell of his
comrade and countryman, who was posted to a better place, where there were no Mackshanes nor
Oakums to asperse and torment him. "No," said he, taking me by the hand, "you are going to
a country where there is more respect sown to unfortunate shentlemen, and where you will have
the satisfaction of peholding your adversaries tossing upon pillows of purning primstone."
Thompson, alarmed at this apostrophe, made haste to the place where I lay, and sitting down
by me, with tears in his eyes inquired into the nature of my calamity. By this time I had recollected
myself so far as to be able to converse rationally with my friends, whom, to their great satisfaction,
I immediately undeceived with regard to their apprehension of my being mortally wounded.

After I had got myself disengaged from the carnage in which I wallowed, and partaken of a refreshment
which my friends brought along with them, we entered into discourse upon the hardships we sustained,
and spoke very freely of the author of our misery; but our discourse being overheard by the
sentinel who guarded me, he was no sooner relieved than he reported to the captain every syllable
of our conversation, according to the orders he had received. The effect of this information
soon appeared in the arrival of the master-at-arms, who replaced Morgan in his former station,
and gave the second mate a caution to keep a strict guard over his tongue, if he did not choose
to accompany us in our confinement. Thompson, foreseeing that the whole slavery of attending
the sick and wounded, as well as the cruelty of Mackshane, must now fall upon his shoulders,
grew desperate at the prospect, and, though I never heard him swear before, imprecated dreadful
curses on the heads of his oppressors, declaring that he would rather quit life altogether
than be much longer under the power of such barbarians. I was not a little startled at his
vivacity, and endeavoured to alleviate his complaints, by representing the subject of my own,
with as much aggravation as it would bear, by which comparison he might see the balance of
misfortune lay on my side, and take an example from me of fortitude and submission, till such
time as we could procure redress, which I hoped was not far off, considering that we should
probably be in a harbour in less than three days, where we should have an opportunity of preferring
our complaints to the admiral. The Welshman joined in my remonstrance, and was at great pains
to demonstrate that it was every man's duty as well as interest to resign himself to the divine
will, and look upon himself as a sentinel upon duty, who is by no means at liberty to leave
his post before he is relieved. Thompson listened attentively to what he said, and at last,
shedding a flood of tears, shook his hand, and left us without making any reply. About eleven
at night he came to see us again with a settled gloom on his countenance, and gave us to understand
that he had undergone excessive toil since he saw us, and in recompense had been grossly abused
by the doctor, who taxed him with being confederate with us, in a design of taking away his
life and that of the captain. After some time spent in mutual exhortation, he got up, and squeezing
me by the hand with uncommon fervour, cried, "God bless you both!" and left us to wonder at
his singular manner of parting with us, which did not fail to make a deep impression on us both.

Next morning, when the hour of visitation came round, the unhappy young man was missing, and,
after strict search, supposed to have gone overboard in the night; and this was certainly the case.

CHAPTER XXX

We lament the fate of our companion--the Captain offers Morgan his liberty, which he refuses
to accept--we are brought before him and examined--Morgan is sent back into custody, whither
also I am remanded after a curious trial

The news of this event affected my fellow prisoner and me extremely, as our unfortunate companion
had justly acquired by his amiable disposition the love and esteem of us both; and the more
we regretted his untimely fate, the greater horror we conceived for the villain who was undoubtedly
the occasion of it. This abandoned miscreant did not discover the least symptom of concern
for Thompson's death, although he must have been conscious to himself of having driven him
by ill usage to the fatal resolution, but desired the captain to set Morgan at liberty again
to look after the patients. Accordingly one of the corporals was sent up to unfetter him, but
he protested he would not be released until he should know for what he was confined; nor would
he be a tennisball, nor a shuttlecock, nor a trudge, nor a scullion, to any captain under the
sun. Oakum, finding him obstinate, and fearing it would not be in his power to exercise his
tyranny much longer with impunity, was willing to show some appearance of justice and therefore
ordered us both to be brought before him on the quarter-deck, where he sat in state, with his
cleric on one side, and his counsellor Mackshane on the other. When we approached, he honoured
us with this salutation: "So, gentlemen, d--n my blood! many a captain in the navy would have
ordered you both to be tucked up to the yard's arm, without either judge or jury, for the crimes
you have been guilty of; but, d--n my blood, I have too much good nature in allowing such dogs
as you to make defence." "Captain Oakum," said my fellow-sufferer, "certainly it is in your
power (Cot help the while) to tack us all up at your will, desire, and pleasures. And perhaps
it would be petter for some of us to be tucked up than to undergo the miseries to which we
have been exposed. So may the farmer hang his kids for his diversion, and amusement, and mirth;
but there is such a thing as justice, if not upon earth, surely in heaven, that will punish
with fire and primstone all those who take away the lives of innocent people out of wantonness,
and parparity (look you). In the mean time. I shall be glad to know the crimes laid to my charge,
and see the person who accuses me." "That you shall," said the captain; "here, doctor, what
have you to say?" Mackshane, stepping forward, hemmed a good while, in order to clear his throat,
and, before he began, Morgan accosted him thus: "Doctor Mackshane, look in my face--look in
the face of an honest man, who abhors a false witness as he abhors the tevil, and Cot be judge
between you and me." The doctor, not minding this conjuration, made the following speech, as
near as I can remember: "I'll tell you what, Mr. Morgan; to be sure what you say is just, in
regard to an honest man, and if so be it appears as how you are an honest man, then it is my
opinion that you deserve to be acquitted, in relation to that there affair, for I tell you
what, Captain Oakum is resolved for to do everybody justice. As for my own part, all that I
have to allege is, that I have been informed you have spoken disrespectful words against your
captain, who, to be sure, is the most honourable and generous commander in the king's service,
without asparagement or acception of man, woman, or child."

Having uttered this elegant harangue, on which he seemed to plume himself, Morgan replied,
"I do partly guess, and conceive, and understand your meaning, which I wish could be more explicit;
but, however, I do suppose, I am not to be condemned upon bare hearsay; or, if I am convicted
of speaking disrespectfully of Captain Oakum, I hope there is no treason in my words." "But
there's mutiny, by G--d, and that's death by the articles of war!" cried Oakum: "In the meantime,
let the witnesses be called." Hereupon Mackshane's servant appeared, and the boy of our mess,
whom they had seduced and tutored for the purpose. The first declared, that Morgan as he descended
the cockpit-ladder one day, cursed the captain, and called him a savage beast, saying, he ought
to be hunted down as an enemy to mankind. "This," said the clerk, "is a strong presumption
of a design, formed against the captain's life. For why? It presupposes malice aforethought,
and a criminal intention a priori." "Right," said the captain to this miserable grub, who had
been an attorney's boy, "you shall have law enough: here's Cook and Littlejohn to it." This
evidence was confirmed by the boy, who affirmed, he heard the first mate say, that the captain
had no more bowels than a bear, and the surgeon had no more brain than an ass. Then the sentinel,
who heard our discourse on the poop was examined, and informed the court that the Welshman
assured me, Captain Oakum and Doctor Mackshane would toss upon billows of burning brimstone
in hell for their barbarity. The clerk observed, that there was an evident prejudication, which
confirmed the former suspicion of a conspiracy against the life of Captain Oakum; for, because,
how could Morgan so positively pronounce that the captain and surgeon would d--n'd, unless
he had intention to make away with them before they could have time to repent? This sage explanation
had great weight with our noble commander, who exclaimed, "What have you to say to this, Taffy?
you seem to be taken all a-back, brother, ha!" Morgan was too much of a gentleman to disown
the text, although he absolutely denied the truth of the comment. Upon which the captain, strutting
up to him with a ferocious countenance, said, "So Mr. son of a bitch, you confess you honoured
me with the names of bear and beast, and pronounced my damnation? D--n my heart! I have a good
mind to have you brought to a court-martial and hang'd, you dog." Here Mackshane, having occasion
for an assistant, interposed, and begged the captain to pardon Mr. Morgan with his wonted goodness,
upon condition that he the delinquent should make such submission as the nature of his misdemeanour
demanded. Upon which the Cambro-Briton, who on this occasion would have made no submission
to the Great Mogul, surrounded with his guards, thanked the doctor for his mediation, and acknowledged
himself in the wrong for calling the image of Cot a peast, "but," said he, "I spoke by metaphor,
and parable, and comparison, and types; as we signify meekness by a lamb, lechery by a goat,
and craftiness by a fox; so we liken ignorance to an ass, and brutality to a bear, and fury
to a tiger; therefore I made use of these similes to express my sentiments (look you), and
what I said before Cot, I will not unsay before man nor peast neither."

Oakum was so provoked at this insolence (as he termed it,) that he ordered him forthwith to
be carried to the place of his confinement, and his clerk to proceed on the examination of
me. The first question put to me was touching the place of my nativity, which I declared to
be the north of Scotland. "The north of Ireland more like!" cried the captain; "but we shall
bring you up presently." He then asked what religion I professed; and when I answered "the
Protestant," swore I was an arrant Roman as ever went to mass. "Come, come, clerk," continued
he, "catechise him a little on this subject." But before I relate the particulars of the clerk's
inquiries, it will not be amiss to inform the reader that our commander himself was an Hibernian,
and, if not shrewdly belied, a Roman Catholic to boot. "You say, you are a Protestant," said
the clerk; "make the sign of the cross with your finger, so, and swear upon it to that affirmation."
When I was about to perform the ceremony, the captain cried with some emotion, "No, no, d--me!
I'll have no profanation neither. But go on with your interrogations." "Well then," proceeded
my examiner, "how many sacraments are there?" To which I replied, "Two." "What are they?" said
he. I answered, "Baptism and the Lord's Supper." "And so you would explode confirmation and
marriage altogether?" said Oakum. "I thought this fellow was a rank Roman." The clerk, though
he was bred under an attorney, could not refrain from blushing at this blunder, which he endeavoured
to conceal, by observing, that these decoys would not do with me, who seemed to be an old offender.
He went on with asking, if I believed in transubstantiation; but I treated the notion of real
presence with such disrespect, that his patron was scandalised at my impiety, and commanded
him to proceed to the plot. Whereupon this miserable pettifogger told me, there was great reason
to suspect me of being a spy on board, and that I had entered into a conspiracy with Thompson,
and others not yet detected, against the life of Captain Oakum, which accusation they pretended
to support by the evidence of our boy, who declared he had often heard the deceased Thompson
and me whispering together, and could distinguish the words, "Oakum, rascal, poison, pistol;"
by which expressions it appeared, we did intend to use sinister means to accomplish his destruction.
That the death of Thompson seemed to confirm this conjecture, who, either feeling the stings
of remorse for being engaged in such a horrid confederacy, or fearing a discovery, by which
he must have infallibly suffered an ignominious death, had put a fatal period to his own existence.
But what established the truth of the whole was, a book in cyphers found among my papers, which
exactly tallied with one found in his chest, after his disappearance. This, he observed, was
a presumption very near positive proof, and would determine any jury in Christendom to find
me guilty. In my own defence, I alleged, that I had been dragged on board at first very much
against my inclination, as I could prove by the evidence of some people now in the ship, consequently
could have no design of becoming spy at that time; and ever since had been entirely out of
the reach of any correspondence that could justly entail that suspicion upon me. As for conspiring
against my captain's life, it could not be supposed that any man in his right wits would harbour
the least thought of such an undertaking, which he could not possibly perform without certain
infamy and ruin to himself, even if he had all the inclination in the world. That, allowing
the boy's evidence to be true (which I affirmed was false and malicious), nothing conclusive
could be gathered from a few incoherent words; neither was the fate of Mr. Thompson a circumstance
more favourable for the charge; for I had in my pocket a letter which too well explained that
mystery, in a very different manner from that which was supposed. With these words, I produced
the following letter, which Jack Rattlin brought to me the very day after Thompson disappeared;
and told me it was committed to his care by the deceased, who made him promise not to deliver
it sooner. The clerk, taking it out of my hand, read aloud the contents, which were these;

    'Dear Friend,--I am so much oppressed with the fatigue
    I daily and nightly undergo, and the barbarous usage
    of Doctor Mackshane, who is bent on your destruction
    as well as mine, that I am resolved to free myself from
    this miserable life, and, before you receive this, shall
    be no more. I could have wished to die in your good
    opinion, which I am afraid I shall forfeit by the last
    act of my life; but, if you cannot acquit me, I know you
    will at least preserve some regard for the memory of an
    unfortunate young man who loved you. I recommend it to
    you, to beware of Mackshane, whose revenge is implacable.
    I wish all prosperity to you and Mr. Morgan, to whom
    pray offer my last respects, and beg to be remembered
    as your unhappy friend and countryman,
                              'William Thompson.'

This letter was no sooner read, than Mackshane, in a transport of rage, snatched it out of
the clerk's hands, and tore it into a thousand pieces, saying, it was a villainous forgery,
contrived and executed by myself. The captain and clerk declared themselves of the same opinion,
although I insisted of having the remains of it compared with other writings of Thompson, which
they had in their possession; and I was ordered to answer the last article of my accusation,
namely, the book of ciphers found among my papers. "That is easily done," said I. "What you
are pleased to all ciphers, are no other than the Greek characters, in which, for my amusement,
I keep a diary of everything remarkable that has occurred to my observation since the beginning
of the voyage, till the day in which I was put in irons; and the same method was practised
by Mr. Thompson, who copied mine." "A very likely story," cried Mackshane; "what occasion was
there for using Greek characters, if you were not afraid of discovering what you had wrote?
But what d'ye talk of Greek characters? D'ye think I am so ignorant of the Greek language,
as not to distinguish its letters from these, which are no more Greek than Chinese? No, no,
I will not give up my knowledge of the Greek for you, nor none that ever came from your country."
So saying, with an unparalleled effrontery, he repeated some gibberish, which by the sound
seemed to be Irish, and made it pass for Greek with the captain, who, looking at me with a
contemptuous sneer, exclaimed, "Ah, ah! have you caught a tartar?" I could not help smiling
at the consummate assurance of this Hibernian, and offered to refer the dispute to anybody
on board who understood the Greek alphabet. Upon which Morgan was brought back, and, being
made acquainted with the affair, took the book, and read a whole page in English, without hesitation,
deciding the controversy in my favour. The doctor was so far from being out of countenance
at this detection, that he affirmed Morgan was in the secret, and repeated from his own invention.
Oakum said, "Ay, ay, I see they are both in a story;" and dismissed my fellow-mate to his cockloft,
although I proposed that he and I should read and translate, separately, any chapter or verse
in the Greek Testament in his possession, by which it would appear whether we or the surgeon
spoke truth. Not being endued with eloquence enough to convince the captain that there could
be no juggle nor confederacy in this expedient, I begged to be examined by some unconcerned
person on board, who understood Greek. Accordingly, the whole ship's company, officers and
all, were called upon deck, among whom it was proclaimed that, if anyone of them could speak
Greek, he or they so qualified should ascend the quarter-deck immediately. After some pause,
two foremast men came up, and professed their skill in that language, which, they said, they
acquired during several voyages to the Levant, among the Greeks of the Morea. The captain exulted
much in this declaration, and put my journal book into the hands of one of them, who candidly
owned he could neither read nor write; the other acknowledged the same degree of ignorance,
but pretended to speak the Greek lingo with any man on board; and, addressing himself to me,
pronounced some sentences of a barbarous corrupted language, which I did not understand. I
asserted that the modern Greek was as different from that spoken and written by the ancients,
as the English used now from the old Saxon spoke in the time of Hengist: and, as I had only
learned the true original tongue, in which Homer, Pindar, the Evangelists, and other great
men of antiquity wrote, it could not be supposed that I should know anything of an imperfect
Gothic dialect that rose on the ruins of the former, and scarce retained any traces of the
old expression: but, if Doctor Mackshane, who pretended to be master of the Greek language,
could maintain a conversation with these seamen, I would retract what I had said, and be content
to suffer any punishment be should think proper to inflict. I had no sooner uttered these words
than the surgeon, knowing one of the fellows to be his countryman, accosted him in Irish, and
was answered in the same brogue; then a dialogue ensued between them, which they affirmed to
be in Greek, after having secured the secrecy of the other tar, who had his cue in the language
of the Morea, from his companion, before they would venture to assert such an intrepid falsehood.
"I thought," said Oakum, "we should discover the imposture at last. Let the rascal be carried
back to his confinement. I find he must dangle." Having nothing further to urge in my own behalf,
before a court so prejudiced with spite, and fortified with ignorance against truth, I suffered
myself to be reconducted peaceably to my fellow-prisoner, who, hearing the particulars of my
trial, lifted up his hands and eyes to Heaven, and uttered a dreadful groan: and, not daring
to disburden his thoughts to me by speech, lest he might be overheard by the sentinel, burst
forth into a Welsh song, which he accompanied with a thousand contortions of face and violent
gestures of body.

CHAPTER XXXI

I discover a subornation against me, by means of a quarrel between two of the evidences; in
consequence of which I am set at liberty, and prevail upon Morgan to accept of his freedom
on the same terms--Mackshane's malice--we arrive at Jamaica, from whence in a short time we
beat up to Hispaniola, in conjunction with the West India squadron--we take in water, sail
again, and arrive at Carthagena--Reflections on our conduct there

Meanwhile, a quarrel happening between the two modern Greeks, the one, to be revenged of the
other, came and discovered to us the mystery of Mackshane's dialogue, as I have explained it
above. This detection coming to the ears of the doctor, who was sensible that (now we were
in sight of Jamaica) we should have an opportunity of clearing ourselves before a court-martial,
and, at the same time, of making his malice and ignorance conspicuous, he interceded for us
with the captain so effectually, that in a few hours we were set at liberty, and ordered to
return to our duty. This was a happy event for me, my whole body being blistered by the sun,
and my limbs benumbed by want of motion: but I could scarce persuade the Welshman to accept
of this indulgence, he persisted in his obstinacy to remain in irons, until he should be discharged
by a court-martial, which, he believed would also do him justice on his enemies. At length
I represented to him the precarious issue of a trial, the power and interest of his adversaries,
and flattered his revenge with the hope of wreaking his resentment with his own hands upon
Mackshane after our return to England. This last argument had more weight with him than all
the rest, and prevailed upon him to repair with me to the cockpit, which I no sooner entered,
than the idea of my departed friend presented itself to my remembrance, and filled my eyes
with tears. We discharged from our mess the boy who had acted so perfidiously, notwithstanding
his tears, intreaties, and of penitence for what he had done; but not before he had confessed
that the surgeon had bribed him to give evidence against us, with a pair of stockings and a
couple of old check shirts, of which his servant had since plundered him.

The keys of our chests and lockers being sent to us by the doctor, we detained the messenger
until we had examined the contents; and my fellow-mate, finding all his Cheshire cheese consumed
to a crust, his brandy exhausted, and his onions gone, was seized with a fit of choler, which
he discharged on Mackshane's man in oaths and execrations, threatening to prosecute him as
a thief. The fellow swore in his turn, that he never had the keys in his possession till that
time, when he received them from his master with orders to deliver them to us. "As Cot is my
judge," cried Morgan, "and my salfation, and my witness; whosoever has pilfered my provisions
is a lousy, peggarly, rascally knave! and by the soul of my grandsire, I will impeach, and
accuse, and indict him, of a roppery, if I did but know who he is." Had this misfortune happened
at see, where we could not repair the loss, in all probability this descendant of Caractacus
would have lost his wits entirely; but, when I observed how easy it would be to remedy this
paltry mischance, he became more calm, and reconciled himself to the occasion.

A little while after this transport the surgeon came into the birth, under pretence of taking
something out of the medicine chest, and, with a smiling aspect, wished us joy of our deliverance,
which, he said, he had been at great pains to obtain of the captain, who was very justly incensed
at our behaviour; but he, the doctor, had passed his word for our future conduct, and he hoped
we should give him no cause to repent of his kindness. He expected, no doubt, an acknowledgment
from us for this pretended piece of service, as well as a general amnesty of what was past;
but he had to do with people who were not quite so apt to forgive injuries as he imagined,
or to forget that, if our deliverance was owing to his mediation, our calamity was occasioned
by his malice; I therefore sat silent, while my companion answered, "Ay, ay, 'tis no matter,
Cot knows the heart; there is a time for all things, as the wise man saith; there is a time
for throwing away stones, and to gather them up." He seemed to be disconcerted at this reply,
and went away in a pet, muttering something about "Ingratitude," and "Fellows," of which we
did not think fit to take any notice.

Our fleet, having joined another that waited for us, lay at anchor about a month in the harbour
of Port Royal in Jamaica, during which time something of consequence was certainly transacted;
notwithstanding the insinuations of some, who affirmed we had no business at all in that place;
that, in order to take the advantage of the season proper for our enterprise, the West India
squadron, which had previous notice of our coming, ought to have joined us at the west end
of Hispaniola, with necessary stores and refreshments, from whence we could have sailed directly
for Carthagena, before the enemy could put themselves in a good posture of defence, or, indeed,
have an inkling of our design. Be this as it will, we sailed from Jamaica, and, in ten days
or a fortnight, beat up against the wind as far as the Isle of Vache, with an intention, as
was said, to attack the French fleet, then supposed to be lying near that place; but before
we arrived, they had sailed for Europe, having first dispatched an advice-boat to Carthagena,
with an account of our being in those seas, as also of our strength and destination. We loitered
here some days longer, taking in wood and brackish water, in the use whereof, however, our
admiral seemed to consult the health of the men, by restricting each to a quart a day.

At length we set sail, and arrived in a bay to the windward of Carthagena, where we came to
an anchor, and lay at our ease ten days longer. Here, again, certain malicious people took
occasion to blame the conduct of their superiors, by saying, that in so doing they not only
unprofitably wasted time, which was very precious, considering the approach of the rainy season,
but also allowed the Spaniards to recollect themselves from a terror occasioned by the approach
of an English fleet, at least three times as numerous as ever appeared in that part of the
world before. But if I might be allowed to give my opinion of the matter, I would ascribe this
delay to the generosity of our chiefs, who scorned to take any advantage that fortune might
give them even over an enemy. At last, however, we weighed, and anchored again somewhat nearer
the harbour's mouth, where we made shift to land our marines, who encamped on the beach, in
despite of the enemy's shot, which knocked a good many of them on the head. This piece of conduct,
in choosing a camp under the walls of an enemy's fortification, which I believe never happened
before, was practised, I presume, with a view of accustoming the soldiers to stand fire, who
were not as yet much used to discipline, most of them having been taken from the plough-tail
a few months before. This expedient, again, has furnished matter for censure against the ministry,
for sending a few raw recruits on such an important enterprise, while so many veteran regiments
lay inactive at home. But surely our governors had their reasons for so doing, which possibly
may be disclosed with other secrets of the deep. Perhaps they were loth to risk their best
troops on such desperate service, or the colonel and the field officers of the old corps, who,
generally speaking, enjoyed their commissions as sinecures or pensions, for some domestic services
rendered to the court, refused to embark in such a dangerous and precarious undertaking; for
which refusal, no doubt, they are to be much commended.

CHAPTER XXXII

Our Land Forces being disembarked, erect a fascine battery-our ship is ordered, with four more,
to batter the port of Bocca Chica--Mackshane's cowardice-the Chaplain's frenzy--honest Rattlin
loses one hand--his heroism and reflections on the battle--Crampley's behaviour to me during
the heat of the Fight

Our forces being landed and stationed as I have already mentioned, set about erecting a fascine
battery to cannonade the principal fort of the enemy; and in something more than three weeks,
it was ready to open. That we might do the Spaniards as much honour as possible, it was determined,
in a council of war, that five of our largest ships should attack the fort on one side, while
the battery, strengthened by two mortars and twenty-four cohorns, should ply it on the other.

Accordingly, the signal for our ship to engage, among others, was hoisted, we being advertised,
the night before, to make everything clear for that purpose; and, in so doing, a difference
happened between Captain Oakum and his well-beloved cousin and counsellor Mackshane, which
had well nigh terminated in an open rupture. The doctor, who had imagined there was no more
danger of being hurt by the enemy's shot in the cockpit than in the centre of the earth, was
lately informed that a surgeon's mate had been killed in that part of the ship by a cannon-ball
from two small redoubts that were destroyed before the disembarkation of our soldiers; and
therefore insisted upon having a platform raised for the convenience of the sick and wounded
in the after-hold, where he deemed himself more secure than on the deck above. The captain,
offended at this extraordinary proposal, accused him of pusillanimity, and told him, there
was no room in the hold for such an occasion: or, if there was, he could not expect to be indulged
more than the rest of the surgeons of the navy, who used the cockpit for that purpose. Fear
rendering Mackshane obstinate, he persisted in his demand, and showed his instructions, by
which it was authorised; the captain swore these instructions were dictated by a parcel of
lazy poltroons who were never at sea; nevertheless he was obliged to comply, and sent for the
carpenter to give him orders about it. But, before any such measure could be taken, our signal
was thrown out, and the doctor compelled to trust his carcass in the cockpit, where Morgan
and I were busy in putting our instruments and dressings in order.

Our ship, with others destined for this service, immediately weighed, and in less than half-an-hour
came to an anchor before the castle of Bocca Chica, with a spring upon our cable, and the cannonading
(which indeed was dreadful) began. The surgeon, after having crossed himself, fell flat on
the deck; and the chaplain and purser, who were stationed with us in quality of assistants,
followed his example, while the Welshman and I sat upon a chest looking at one another with
great discomposure, scarce able to refrain from the like prostration. And that the reader may
know it was not a common occasion that alarmed us thus, I must inform him of the particulars
of this dreadful din that astonished us. The fire of the Spaniards proceeded from eighty-four
great guns, besides a mortar and small arms, in Bocca Chica; thirty-six in Fort St. Joseph;
twenty in two fascine batteries, and four men-of-war, mounting sixty-four guns each. This was
answered by our land-battery mounted with twenty-one cannon, two mortars, and twenty-four cohorns,
and five great ships of seventy or eighty guns, that fired without intermission.

We had not been many minutes engaged, when one of the sailors brought another on his back to
the cockpit, where he tossed him down like a bag of oats, and pulling out his pouch, put a
large chew of tobacco in his mouth without speaking a word. Morgan immediately examined the
condition of the wounded man, and cried out, "As I shall answer now, the man is as dead as
my great grandfather." "Dead," said his comrade; "he may be dead now, for aught I know, but
I'll be d--d if he was not alive when I took him up." So saying, he was about to return to
his quarters, when I bade him carry the body along with him, and throw it overboard. "D--n
the body!" said he, "I think 'tis fair enough if I take care of my own." My fellow mate, snatching
up the amputation knife, pursued him half-way up the cock-pit ladder, crying, "You lousy rascal,
is this the churchyard, or the charnel-house, or the sepulchre, or the golgotha, of the ship?"--but
was stopped in his career by one calling, "Yo he, avast there--scaldings!" "Scaldings!" answered
Morgan; "Cot knows 'tis hot enough indeed: who are you?" "Here's one!" replied the voice; and
I immediately knew it to be that of my honest friend Jack Rattlin, who coming towards me, told
me, with great deliberation, he was come to be docked at last, and discovered the remains of
one hand, which had been shattered to pieces with a grape shot. I lamented with unfeigned sorrow
his misfortune, which he bore with heroic courage, observing, that every shot had its commission:
"It was well it did not take him in the head! or if it had, what then? he should have died
bravely, fighting for his king and country. Death was a debt which every man owed, and must
pay; and that now was as well as another time." I was much pleased and edified with the maxims
of this sea-philosopher, who endured the amputation of his left hand without shrinking, the
operation being performed (at his request) by me, after Mackshane, who was with difficulty
prevailed to lift his head from the deck, had declared there was a necessity for his losing
the limb.

While I was employed in dressing the stump, I asked Jack's opinion of the battle, who, shaking
his head, frankly told me, he believed we should do no good: "For why? because, instead of
dropping anchor close under shore, where we should have to deal with one corner of Bocca Chica
only, we had opened the harbour, and exposed ourselves to the whole fire of the enemy from
their shipping and Fort St. Joseph, as well as from the castle we intended to cannonade; that,
besides, we lay at too great a distance to damage the walls, and three parts in four of our
shot did not take place; for there was scarce anybody on board who understood the pointing
of a gun. Ah! God help us!" continued he, "If your kinsman, Lieutenant Bowling, had been here,
we should have had other guess work." By this time, our patients had increased to such a number,
that we did not know which to begin with; and the first mate plainly told the surgeon, that
if he did not get up immediately and perform his duty, he would complain of his behaviour to
the admiral, and make application for his warrant. This remonstrance effectually roused Mackshane,
who was never deaf to an argument in which he thought his interest was concerned; he therefore
rose up, and in order to strengthen his resolution, had recourse more than once to a case-bottle
of rum, which he freely communicated to the chaplain, and purser, who had as much need of such
extraordinary inspiration as himself. Being thus supported, he went to work, and arms and legs
were hewed down without mercy. The fumes of the liquor mounting into the parson's brain, conspired,
with his former agitation of spirits, to make him quite delirious; he stripped himself to the
skin; and, besmearing his body with blood, could scarce be withheld from running upon deck
in that condition. Jack Rattlin, scandalised at this deportment, endeavoured to allay his transports
with reason; but finding all he said ineffectual, and great confusion occasioned by his frolics,
he knocked him down with his right hand, and by threats kept him quiet in that state of humiliation.
But it was not in the power of rum to elevate the purser, who sat on the floor wringing his
hands, and cursing the hour in which he left his peaceable profession of a brewer in Rochester,
to engage in such a life of terror and disquiet.

While we diverted ourselves at the expense of this poor devil, a shot happened to take us between
wind and water, and (its course being through the purser's store room) made a terrible havoc
and noise among the jars and bottles in its way, and disconcerted Mackshane so much, that he
dropped his scalpel, and falling down on his knees, pronounced his Pater-noster aloud: the
purser fell backward, and lay without sense or motion; and the chaplain grew so outrageous,
that Rattlin with one hand could not keep him under; so that we were obliged to confine him
in the surgeon's cabin, where he was no doubt guilty of a thousand extravagancies. Much about
this time, my old antagonist, Crampley, came down, with express orders, as he said, to bring
me up to the quarter-deck, to dress a slight wound the captain had received by a splinter:
his reason for honouring me in particular with this piece of service, being, that in case I
should be killed or disabled by the way, my death or mutilation would be of less consequence
to the ship's company than that of the doctor or his first mate. At another time, perhaps,
I might have disputed this order, to which I was not bound to pay the least regard; but as
I thought my reputation depended upon my compliance, I was resolved to convince my rival that
I was no more afraid than he of exposing myself to danger. With this view I provided myself
with dressings, and followed him immediately to the quarter-deck, through a most infernal scene
of slaughter, fire, smoke, and uproar. Captain Oakum, who leaned against the mizen-mast, no
sooner saw me approach in my shirt, with the sleeves tucked up to my armpits, and my hands
dyed with blood, than he signified his displeasure by a frown, and asked why the doctor himself
did not come? I told him that Crampley had singled me out, as if by express command; at which
reply he seemed surprised, and threatened to punish the midshipman for his presumption, after
the engagement. In the meantime, I was sent back to my station, and ordered to tell Mackshane,
that the captain expected him immediately. I got safe back, and delivered my commission to
the doctor, who flatly refused to quit the post assigned to him by his instructions; whereupon
Morgan, who I believe, was jealous of my reputation for courage, undertook the affair, and
ascended with great intrepidity. The captain, finding the surgeon obstinate, suffered himself
to be dressed, and swore he would confine Mackshane as soon as the service should be over.

CHAPTER XXXIII

A breach being made in the walls, our soldiers give the assault, and take the place without
opposition--our sailors at the same time, become masters of all the other strengths near Bocca
Chica, and take possession of the harbour--the good consequence of this success--we move nearer
the town--find two forts deserted, and the Channel blocked up with sunk vessels; which however
we find means to clear--land our soldiers at La Quinta--repulse a body of militia--attack the
castle of St. Lazar, and are forced to retreat with great loss--the remains of our army are
re-embarked--an effort of the Admiral to take the town--the economy of our expedition described

Having cannonaded the fort during the space of four hours, we were all ordered to slip our
cables, and sheer off; but next day the engagement was renewed, and continued from the morning
till the afternoon, when the enemy's fire from Bocca Chica slackened, and towards evening was
quite silenced. A breach being made on the other side, by our land battery, large enough to
admit a middle-sized baboon, provided he could find means to climb up to it, our general proposed
to give the assault that very night, and actually ordered a detachment on that duty. Providence
stood our friend upon this occasion, and put it into the hearts of the Spaniards to abandon
the fort, which might have been maintained by resolute men till the day of judgment against
all the force we could exert in the attack. And while our soldiers took possession of the enemy's
ramparts without resistance, the same good luck attended a body of sailors, who made themselves
masters of Fort St. Joseph, the fascine batteries, and one Spanish man-of-war; the other three
being burnt or sunk by the foe, that they might not fall into our hands. The taking of these
forts, in the strength of which the Spaniards chiefly confided, made us masters of the outward
harbour, and occasioned great joy among us, as we laid our accounts at finding little or no
opposition from the town: and indeed, if a few great ships had sailed up immediately, before
they had recovered from the confusion and despair that our unexpected success had produced
among them, it is not impossible that we might have finished the affair to our satisfaction,
without any more bloodshed; but this step our heroes disdained as a barbarous insult over the
enemy's distress, and gave them all the respite they could desire, in order to recollect themselves.
In the meantime, Mackshane, taking the advantage of this general exultation, waited on our
captain, and pleaded his own cause so effectually that he was re-established in his good graces;
and as for Crampley, there was no more notice taken of his behaviour towards me during the
action. But of all the consequences of the victory, none was more grateful than plenty of fresh
water, after we had languished five weeks on the allowance of a purser's quart per day for
each man in the Torrid Zone, where the sun was vertical, and the expense of bodily fluid so
great, that a gallon of liquor could scarce supply the waste of twenty-four hours; especially
as our provision consisted of putrid salt beef, to which the sailors gave the name of Irish
horse; salt pork, of New England, which, though neither fish nor flesh, savoured of both; bread
from the same country, every biscuit whereof, like a piece of clockwork, moved by its own internal
impulse, occasioned by the myriads of insects that dwelt within it; and butter served out by
the gill, that tasted like train oil thickened with salt. Instead of small beer, each man was
allowed three half-quarterns of brandy or rum, which were distributed every morning, diluted
with a certain quantity of his water, without either sugar or fruit to render it palatable,
for which reason, this composition was by the sailors not ineptly styled Necessity. Nor was
this limitation of simple element owing to a scarcity of it on board, for there was at this
time water enough in the ship for a voyage of six months, at the rate of half-a-gallon per
day to each man: but this fast must, I suppose, have been enjoined by way of penance on the
ship's company for their sins; or rather with a view to mortify them into a contempt of life,
that they might thereby become more resolute and regardless of danger. How simply then do those
people argue, who ascribe the great mortality among us, to our bad provision and want of water;
and affirm, that a great many valuable lives might have been saved, if the useless transports
had been employed in fetching fresh stock, turtle, fruit, and other refreshments from Jamaica
and other adjacent islands, for the use of the army and fleet! seeing it is to be hoped, that
those who died went to a better place, and those who survived were the more easily maintained.
After all, a sufficient number remained to fall before the walls of St. Lazar, where they behaved
like their own country mastiffs, which shut their eyes, run into the jaws of a bear, and have
their heads crushed for their valour.

But to return to my narration. After having put garrisons into the forts we had taken, and
re-embarked our soldiers and artillery (a piece of service that detained us more than a week),
we ventured up to the mouth of the inner harbour, guarded by a large fortification on one side,
and a small redoubt on the other, both of which were deserted before our approach, and the
entrance of the harbour blocked up by several old galleons, and two men-of-war that the enemy
had sunk in the channel. We made shift, however, to open a passage for some ships, that favoured
a second landing of our troops at a place called La Quinta, not far from the town, where, after
a faint resistance from a body of Spaniards, who opposed their disembarkation, they encamped
with a design of besieging the castle of St. Lazar, which overlooked and commanded the city.
Whether our renowned general had nobody in his army who knew how to approach it in form, or
that he trusted entirely to the fame of his arms, I shall not determine; but, certain it is,
a resolution was taken in a council of war, to attack the place with musketry only. This was
put in execution, and succeeded accordingly; the enemy giving them such a hearty reception,
that the greatest part of their detachment took up their everlasting residence on the spot.

Our chief, not relishing this kind of complaisance in the Spaniard's, was wise enough to retreat
on board with the remains of his army, which, from eight thousand able men landed on the beach
near Bocca Chica, was now reduced to fifteen hundred fit for service. The sick and wounded
were squeezed into certain vessels, which thence obtained the name of hospital ships, though
methinks they scarce deserved such a creditable title, seeing few of them could boast of their
surgeon, nurse, or cook; and the space between decks was so confined that the miserable patients
had not room to sit upright in their beds. Their wounds and stumps, being neglected, contracted
filth and putrefaction, and millions of maggots were hatched amidst the corruption of their
sores. This inhuman disregard was imputed to the scarcity of surgeons; though it is well known
that every great ship in the fleet could have spared one at least for this duty, an expedient
which would have been more than sufficient to remove this shocking inconvenience. But perhaps
our general was too much of a gentleman to ask a favour of this kind from his fellow chief,
who, on the other hand, would not derogate so much from his own dignity, as to offer such assistance
unasked; for, I may venture to affirm, that by this time the Demon of Discord, with her sooty
wings, had breathed her influence upon our councils; and it might be said of these great men
(I hope they will pardon the comparison) as of Cesar and Pompey, the one could not brook a
superior, and the other was impatient of an equal; so that, between the pride of one and insolence
of another, the enterprise miscarried, according to the proverb, "Between two stools the backside
falls to the ground." Not that I would be thought to liken any public concern to that opprobrious
part of the human body, though I might with truth assert, if I durst use such a vulgar idiom,
that the nation did hang on arse at its disappointment on this occasion; neither would I presume
to compare the capacity of our heroic leaders to any such wooden convenience as a joint-stool
or a close-stool; but only to signify by this simile, the mistake the people committed in trusting
to the union of two instruments that were never joined.

A day or two after the attempt on St. Lazar, the admiral ordered one of the Spanish men-of-war
we had taken to be mounted with sixteen guns, and manned with detachments from our great ships,
in order to batter the town; accordingly, she was towed into the inner harbour in the night,
and moored within half a mile of the walls, against which she began to fire at daybreak; and
continued about six hours exposed to the opposition of at least thirty pieces of cannon, which
at length obliged our men to set her on fire, and get off as well as they could in their boats.
This piece of conduct afforded matter of speculation to all the wits, either in the army or
navy, who were at last fain to acknowledge it a stroke of policy above their comprehension.
Some entertained such an irreverent opinion of the admiral's understanding, as to think he
expected the town would surrender to his floating battery of sixteen guns: others imagined
his sole intention was to try the enemy's strength, by which he should be able to compute the
number of great ships that would be necessary to force the town to a capitulation. But this
last conjecture soon appeared groundless, inasmuch as no ships of any kind whatever were afterwards
employed on that service. A third sort swore, that no other cause could be assigned for this
undertaking than that which induced Don Quixote to attack the windmill. A fourth class (and
that the most numerous, though, without doubt, composed of the sanguine and malicious), plainly
taxed this commander with want of honesty as well as sense; and alleged that he ought to have
sacrificed private pique to the interest of his country; that, where the lives of so many brave
fellow-citizens were concerned, he ought to have concurred with the general without being solicited
or even desired, towards their preservation and advantage, that, if his arguments could not
dissuade him from a desperate enterprise, it was his duty to have rendered it as practicable
as possible, without running extreme hazard; that this could have been done, with a good prospect
of success, by ordering five or six large ships to batter the town, while the land forces stormed
the castle; by these means a considerable diversion would have been made in favour of those
troops, who, in their march to the assault and in the retreat, suffered much more from the
town than from the castle! that the inhabitants, seeing themselves vigorously attacked on all
hands, would have been divided, distracted, and confused, and in all probability, unable to
resist the assailants. But all these suggestions surely proceeded from ignorance or malevolence,
or else the admiral would not have found it such an easy matter, at his return to England,
to justify his conduct to a ministry at once so upright and discerning. True it is, that those
who undertook to vindicate him on the spot, asserted, that there was not water enough for our
great ships near the town: though this was a little unfortunately urged, because there happened
to be pilots in the fleet perfectly well acquainted with the soundings of the harbour, who
affirmed there was water enough for five eighty-gun ships to lie abreast almost up to the very
walls. The disappointments we suffered occasioned a universal dejection, which was not at all
alleviated by the objects that daily and hourly entertained our eyes, nor by the prospect of
what must have inevitably happened, had we remained much longer in this place. Such was the
economy in some ships that, rather than be at the trouble of interring the dead, their commanders
ordered their men to throw their bodies overboard, many without either ballast or winding-sheet;
so that numbers of human carcases floated in the harbour, until they were devoured by sharks
and carrion crows, which afforded no agreeable spectacle to those who survived. At the same
time the wet season began, during which a deluge of rain falls, from the rising to the setting
sun, without intermission, and that no sooner ceases than it begins to thunder, and lighten
with such continued flashing, that one can see to read a very small print by the illumination.

CHAPTER XXXIV

An epidemic Fever rages among us--we abandon our Conquests--I am seized with Distemper--write
a Petition to the Captain, which is rejected--I am in danger of Suffocation through the Malice
of Crampley, and relieved by a Serjeant--my Fever increases--the Chaplain wants to confess
me--I obtain a favourable Crisis-Morgan's Affection for me proved--the Behaviour of Mackshane
and Crampley towards me--Captain Oakum is removed into another Ship with his beloved Doctor--our
new Captain described--An Adventure of Morgan

The change of the atmosphere, occasioned by this phenomenon, conspired, with the stench that
surrounded us, the heat of the climate, our own constitutions, impoverished by bad provisions,
and our despair, to introduce the bilious fever among us, which raged with such violence, that
three-fourths of those whom it invaded died in a deplorable manner; the colour of their skin
being, by the extreme putrefaction of the juices, changed into that of soot.

Our conductors, finding things in this situation, perceived it was high to relinquish our conquests,
and this we did, after having rendered their artillery useless, and blown up their walls with
gunpowder. Just as we sailed from Bocca Chica, on our return to Jamaica, I found myself threatened
with the symptoms of this terrible distemper; and knowing very well that I stood no chance
for my life, if I should be obliged to be in the cockpit, which by this time was grown intolerable,
even to people in health, by reason of the heat and unwholesome smell of decayed provision,
I wrote a petition to the captain, representing my case, and humbly imploring his permission
to be among the soldiers in the middle deck, for the benefit of the air: but I might have spared
myself the trouble; for this humane commander refused my request, and ordered me to continue
in the place allotted for the surgeon's mates, or else be contented to be in the hospital,
which, by the by, was three degrees more offensive and more suffocating than our own berth
below. Another, in my condition, perhaps, would have submitted to his fate, and died in a pet;
but I could not brook the thought of perishing so pitifully, after I had weathered so many
gales of hard fortune: I therefore, without minding Oakum's injunction, prevailed upon the
soldiers (whose good-will I had acquired) to admit my hammock among them; and actually congratulated
myself upon my comfortable situation; which Crampley no sooner understood, than he signified
to the captain my contempt of his orders, and was invested with power to turn me down again
into my proper habitation.

This barbarous piece of revenge incensed me so much against the author, that I vowed, with
bitter imprecations, to call him to a severe account, if ever it should be in my power; and
the agitation of my spirits increased my fever to a violent degree. While I lay gasping for
breath in this infernal abode, I was visited by a sergeant, the bones of whose nose I had reduced
and set to rights, after they had been demolished by a splinter during our last engagement;
he, being informed of my condition, offered me the use of his berth in the middle deck, which
was enclosed with canvas, and well aired by a port-hole that remained open within it. I embraced
this proposal with joy, and was immediately conducted to the place, where I was treated, while
my illness lasted, with the utmost tenderness and care by this grateful halberdier, who had
no other bed for himself than a hencoop during the whole passage. Here I lay and enjoyed the
breeze, notwithstanding which my malady gained ground, and at length my life was despaired
of, though I never lost hopes of recovery, even when I had the mortification to see, from my
cabin-window, six or seven thrown overboard every day, who died of the same distemper. This
confidence, I am persuaded, conduced a great deal to the preservation of my life, especially
when joined to another resolution I took at the beginning, namely, to refuse all medicine,
which I could not help thinking co-operated with the disease, and, instead of resisting putrefaction,
promoted a total degeneracy of the vital fluid. When my friend Morgan, therefore, brought his
diaphoretic bolases, I put them into my month, 'tis true, but without any intention of swallowing
them: and, when he went away, spit them out, and washed my mouth with water-gruel. I seemingly
complied in this matter, that I might not affront the blood of Caractacus, by a refusal which
might have intimated a diffidence of his physical capacity, for he acted as my physician; Doctor
Mackshane never once inquiring about me, or even knowing where I was. When my distemper was
at the height, Morgan thought my case desperate, and, after having applied a blister to the
nape of my neck, squeezed my hand, bidding me, with a woful countenance, recommend myself to
Cot and my Reteemer; then, taking his leave, desired the chaplain to come and administer some
spiritual consolation to me; but, before he arrived, I made shift to rid myself of the troublesome
application the Welshman had bestowed on my back. The person, having felt my pulse, inquired
into the nature of my complaints, hemmed a little, and began thus: "Mr. Random, God out of
his infinite mercy has been pleased to visit you with a dreadful distemper, the issue of which
no man knows. You may be permitted to recover and live many days on the face of the earth;
and, which is more probable, you may be taken away, and cut off in the flower of your youth.
It is incumbent on you, therefore, to prepare for the great change, by repenting sincerely
of your sins; of this there cannot be a greater sign, than an ingenuous confession, which I
conjure you to make without hesitation or mental reservation; and, when I am convinced of your
sincerity, I will then give you such comfort as the situation of your soul will admit of. Without
doubt, you have been guilty of numberless transgressions to which youth is subject, as swearing,
drunkenness, whoredom, and adultery: tell me therefore, without reserve, the particulars of
each, especially of the last, that I may be acquainted with the true state of your conscience;
for no physician will prescribe for his patient until he knows the circumstances of his disease."

As I was not under any apprehensions of death, I could not help smiling at the chaplain's inquisitive
remonstrance, which I told him savoured more of the Roman than of the Protestant church, in
recommending auricular confession; a thing, in my opinion, not at all necessary to salvation,
and which, for that reason, I declined. This reply disconcerted him a little; however, he explained
away his meaning, in making learned distinctions between what was absolutely necessary and
what was only convenient; then proceeded to ask what religion I professed. I answered, that
I had not as yet considered the difference of religions, consequently had not fixed on any
one in particular, but that I was bred a Presbyterian. At this word the chaplain expressed
great astonishment, and said, he could not comprehend how a presbyterian was entitled to any
post under the English government. Then he asked if I had ever received the sacrament, or taken
the oaths; to which questions, I replying in the negative, he held up his hands, assured me
he could do me no service, wished I might not be in a state of reprobation, and returned to
his messmates, who were making merry in the ward-room, round a table well stored with bumbo(2)
and wine.

     (2)bumbo is a liquor composed of rum, sugar, water, and nutmeg

This insinuation, terrible as it was, had not such an effect upon me as the fever, which, soon
after he had left me, grew outrageous. I began to see strange chimeras and concluded myself
upon the point of being delirious; in the meantime, being in great danger of suffocation, I
started up in a kind of frantic fit, with an intention to plunge myself into the sea; and,
as my friend the sergeant was not present, would certainly have cooled myself to some purpose,
had I not perceived a moisture upon my thigh, as I endeavoured to get out of my hammock: the
appearance of this revived my hopes, and I had reflection and resolution enough to take the
advantage of this favourable symptom, by tearing the shirt from my body, and the sheets from
my bed, and wrapping myself in a thick blanket, in which inclosure, for about a quarter of
an hour, felt all the pains of hell: but it was not long before I was recompensed for my suffering
by a profuse sweat, that, bursting from the whole surface of my skin, in less than two hours,
relieved me from all my complaints except that of weakness; and left me as hungry as a kite.
I enjoyed a very comfortable nap, after which I was regaling myself with the agreeable reverie
of future happiness, when I heard Morgan, on the outside of the curtain, ask the sergeant if
I was alive still? "Alive!" cried the other, "God forbid he should be otherwise! he has lain
quiet these five hours, and I do not choose to disturb him, for sleep will do him great service."
"Ay," said my fellow-mate, "he sleeps so sound (look you), that he will not waken till the
great trump plows--Cot be merciful to his soul. He has paid his debt like an honest man--ay,
and moreover, he is at rest from all persecutions, and troubles, and afflictions, of which,
Cot knows, and I know, he had his own share--Ochree! Ochree! he was a promising youth indeed!"
So saying he groaned grievously, and began to whine in such a manner, as persuaded me he had
a real friendship for me. The sergeant, alarmed at his words, came into the berth, and, while
he looked upon me, I smiled, and tipped him the wink: he immediately guessed my meaning and
remaining silent, Morgan was confirmed in his opinion of my being dead; whereupon he approached,
with tears in his eyes, in order to indulge his grief with a sight of the object: and I counterfeited
death so well, by fixing my eyes and dropping my under-jaw, that he said, "There he lies, no
petter than a lump of clay, Cot help me!" and observed, by the distortion of my face, that
I must have had a strong struggle.

I should not have been able to contain myself much longer, when he began to perform the last
duty of a friend, in closing my eyes and my mouth, upon which I suddenly snapped at his fingers
and discomposed him so much that he started back, turned pale as ashes, and stared like the
picture of horror; although I could not help laughing at his appearance, I was concerned for
his situation, and stretched out my hand, telling him I hoped to live and eat some salmagundy
of his making in England. It was some time before he could recollect himself so far as to feel
my pulse, and inquire into the particulars of my disease; but when he found I had enjoyed a
favourable crisis, he congratulated me upon my good fortune; not failing to ascribe it, under
Cot, to the blister he had applied to my back, at his last visit; which, by the bye, said he,
must now be removed and dressed; he was actually going to fetch dressings, when I, feigning
astonishment, said, "Bless me! sure you never applied a blister to me--there is nothing on
my back, I assure you." But he could not be convinced till he had examined it, and then endeavoured
to conceal his confusion, by expressing his surprise in finding the skin untouched and the
plaster missing. In order to excuse myself for paying so little regard to his prescription,
I pretended to have been insensible when it was put on, and to have pulled it off afterwards
in a fit of delirium. This apology satisfied my friend, who, on this occasion, abated a good
deal of his stiffness in regard to punctilio; and as we were now safely arrived at Jamaica,
where I had the benefit of fresh provisions and other refreshments, I recovered strength every
day, and, in a short time, my health and vigour were perfectly re-established.

When I got up at first, and was just able to crawl about the deck with a staff in my hand,
I met Doctor Mackshane, who passed by me with a disdainful look, and did not vouchsafe to honour
me with one word. After him came Crampley, who, strutting up to me with a fierce countenance,
pronounced, "Here's fine discipline on-board, when such lazy, skulking sons of bitches as you
are allowed, on pretence of sickness, to lollop at your ease, while your betters are kept to
hard duty!" The sight and behaviour of this malicious scoundrel enraged me so much that I could
scarce refrain from laying my cudgel across his pate; but when I considered my present feebleness,
and the enemies I had in the ship, who wanted only a pretence to ruin me, I restrained my passion,
and contented myself with telling him, I had not forgot his insolence and malice, and that
I hoped we should meet one day on shore. At this declaration he grinned, shook his fist, and
swore he longed for nothing more than such an opportunity. Meanwhile our ship was ordered to
be heaved down, victualled, and watered, for her return to England; and our captain, for some
reason or other, not thinking it convenient for him to revisit his native country at this time,
exchanged with a gentleman, who, on the other hand, wished for nothing so much as to be safe
without the tropic: all his care and tenderness of himself being insufficient to preserve his
complexion from the injuries of the sun and weather.

Our tyrant having left the ship, and carried his favourite Mackshane along with him, to my
inexpressible satisfaction, our new commander came on board in a ten-oared barge, overshadowed
with a vast umbrella, and appeared in everything the reverse of Oakum, being a tall, thin young
man, dressed in this manner: a white hat, garnished with a red feather, adorned his head, from
whence his hair flowed upon his shoulders, in ringlets tied behind with a ribbon. His coat,
consisting of pink-coloured silk, lined with white, by the elegance of the cut retired backward,
as it were, to discover a white satin waistcoat embroidered with gold, unbuttoned at the upper
part to display a brooch set with garnets, that glittered in the breast of his shirt, which
was of the finest cambric, edged with right Mechlin: the knees of his crimson velvet breeches
scarce descended so low as to meet his silk stockings, which rose without spot or wrinkle on
his meagre legs, from shoes of blue Meroquin, studded with diamond buckles that flamed forth
rivals to the sun! A steel-hilted sword, inlaid with gold, and decked with a knot of ribbon
which fell down in a rich tassel, equipped his side; and an amber-headed cane hung dangling
from his wrist. But the most remarkable parts of his furniture were, a mask on his face, and
white gloves on his hands, which did not seem to be put on with an intention to be pulled off
occasionally, but were fixed with a curious ring on the little finger of each hand.

In this garb, Captain Whiffle, for that was his name, took possession of the ship, surrounded
with a crowd of attendants, all of whom, in their different degrees, seemed to be of their
patron's disposition; and the air was so impregnated with perfumes, that one may venture to
affirm the climate of Arabia Felix was not half so sweet-scented. My fellow-mate, observing
no surgeon among his train, thought he had found an occasion too favourable for himself to
be neglected; and, remembering the old proverb, "Spare to speak, and spare to speed," resolved
to solicit the new captain's interest immediately, before any other surgeon could be appointed
for the ship. With this view he repaired to the cabin in his ordinary dress, consisting of
a check shirt and trousers, a brown linen waistcoat, and a nightcap of the same (neither of
them very clean,) which, for his further misfortune, happened to smell strong of tobacco. Entering
without any ceremony into this sacred place, he found Captain Whiffle reposing upon a couch,
with a wrapper of fine chintz about his body, and a muslin cap bordered with lace about his
head; and after several low congees began in this manner: "Sir, I hope you will forgive, and
excuse, and pardon, the presumption of one who has not the honour of being known to you, but
who is, nevertheless a shentleman porn and pred, and moreover has had misfortunes, Cot help
me, in the world."

Here he was interrupted by the captain, who, on seeing him, had started up with great amazement,
at the novelty of the apparition; and, having recollected himself, pronounced with a look and
tone signifying disdain, curiosity and surprise, "Zauns! who art thou?" "I am surgeon's first
mate on board of this ship," replied Morgan: "and I most vehemently desire and beseech you,
with all submission, to be pleased to condescend and vouchsafe to inquire into my character,
and my pehaviour, and my deserts, which, under Cot, I hope, will entitle me to the vacancy
of surgeon." As he proceeded in his speech, he continued advancing towards the captain, whose
nostrils were no sooner saluted with the aromatic flavour that exhaled from him, than he cried
with great emotion, "Heaven preserve me! I am suffocated! Fellow, fellow, away with thee! Curse
thee, fellow! Get thee gone! I shall be stunk to death!" At the noise of his outcries, his
servants ran into his apartment, and he accosted them thus: "Villains! cut-throats! traitors!
I am betrayed! I am sacrificed! Will you not carry that monster away? or must I be stifled
with the stench of him? oh, oh!" With these interjections he sank down upon his settee in a
fit: his valet-de-chambre plied him with a smelling-bottle, one footman chafed his temples
with Hungary water, another sprinkled the floor with spirits of lavender, a third pushed Morgan
out of the cabin; who coming to the place where I was, sat down with a demure countenance and,
according to his custom, when he received any indignity which he durst not revenge, began to
sing a Welsh ditty.

I guessed he was under some agitation of spirits and desired to know the cause; but, instead
of answering me directly, he asked with great emotion, if I thought him a monster and a stinkard?
"A monster and a stinkard!" said I, with some surprise: "did anybody call you so?" "Cot is
my judge," replied be, "Captain Fifle did call me both; ay, and all the waters in the Tawy
will not wash it out of my remembrance. I do affirm and avouch, and maintain, with my soul,
and my pody, and my plood, look you, that I have no smells apout me, but such as a Christian
ought to have, except the effluvia of tobacco, which is a cephalic, odoriferous, aromatic herb;
and he is a son of a mountain goat who says otherwise. As for my being a minister, let that
be as it is: I am as Cot was pleased to create me, which, peradventure, is more than I shall
ever aver of him who gave me that title; for I will proclaim it before the world, that he is
disguised, and transfigured, and transmogrified, with affectation and whimseys; and that he
is more like a papoon than of the human race."

CHAPTER XXXV

Captain Whiffle sends for me--his situation described--his surgeon arrives, prescribes for
him, and puts him to bed--a bed is put up for Mr. Simper contiguous to the state room, which,
with other parts of the captains behaviour, gives the ship's company a very unfavourable idea
of their commander--I am detained in the West Indies by the admiral, and go on board of the
Lizard sloop of war in quality of surgeon's mate, where I make myself known to the surgeon,
who treats me very kindly--I go on shore, sell my ticket, purchase necessaries, and, at my
return on board, am surprised at the sight of Crampley, who is appointed lieutenant of the
sloop--we sail on a cruise--take a prize in which I arrive at Port Morant under the command
of my messmate, with whom I live in great harmony

He was going on with an eulogium upon the captain, when I received a message to clean myself,
and go up to the great cabin: and with this command I instantly complied, sweetening myself
with rosewater from the medicine chest. When I entered the room, I was ordered to stand by
the door, until Captain Whiffle had reconnoitered me at a distance with a spy-glass. He, having
consulted one sense in this manner, bade me advance gradually, that his nose might have intelligence
before it could be much offended: I therefore approached with great caution and success, and
he was pleased to say, "Ay, this creature is tolerable." I found him lolling on his couch with
a languishing air, his head supported by his valet-de-chambre, who from time to time applied
a smelling-bottle to his nose. "Vergette," said he in a squeaking tone, "dost think this wretch
(meaning me) will do me no injury? May I venture to submit my arm to him?" "Pon my word," replied
the valet, "I do tink dat dere be great occasion for your honour losing a small quantite of
blodt; and the young man ave quelque chose of de bonne mine." "Well, then," said his master,
"I think I must venture." Then, addressing himself to me, "Hast thou ever blooded anybody but
brutes? But I need not ask thee, for thou wilt tell me a most d--able lie," "Brutes, sir!"
answered I, pulling down his glove, in order to feel his pulse, "I never meddle with brutes."
"What the devil art thou about?" cried he, "dost thou intend to twist off my hand? Gad's curse!
my arm is benumbed up to the very shoulder! Heaven have mercy upon me! must I perish under
the hands of savages? What an unfortunate dog was I to come on board without my own surgeon,
Mr. Simper." I craved pardon for having handled him so roughly, and, with the utmost care,
and tenderness, tied up his arm with a fillet of silk. While I was feeling for the vein, he
desired to know how much blood I intended to take from him, and, when I answered, "not above
twelve ounces," started up with a look full of horror, and bade me be gone, swearing I had
a design upon his life. Vergette appeased him with difficulty, and, opening a bureau, took
out a pair of scales, in one of which was placed a small cup; and putting them into my hand,
told me, the captain never lost above an ounce and three drams at one time.

While I prepared for this important evacuation, there came into the cabin a young man gaily
dressed, of a very delicate complexion with a kind of languid smile on his face: which seemed
to have been rendered habitual by a long course of affectation. The captain no sooner perceived
him, than, rising hastily, he flew into his arms, crying, "O, my dear Simper, I am excessively
disordered! I have been betrayed, frighted, murdered, by the negligence of my servants, who
suffered a beast, a mule, a bear, to surprise me, and stink me into convulsions with the fumes
of tobacco." Simper, who by this time, I found, was obliged to act for the clearness of his
complexion, assumed an air of softness and sympathy, and lamented with many tender expressions
of sorrow, the sad accident that had thrown him into that condition; then, feeling his patient's
pulse on the outside of his glove, gave it as his opinion, that his disorder was entirely nervous,
and that some drops of tincture of castor, and liquid laudanum, would be of more service to
him than bleeding, by bridling the inordinate sallies of his spirits, and composing the fermentation
of his bile. I was therefore sent to prepare this prescription, which was administered in a
glass of sack posset, after the captain had been put to bed, and orders sent to the officers
on the quarter-deck, to let nobody walk on that side under which he lay.

While the captain enjoyed his repose the doctor watched over him, and indeed became so necessary,
that a cabin was made for him contiguous to the state room where Whiffle slept, that he might
be at hand in case of accidents in the night. Next day, our commander being happily recovered,
gave orders that none of the lieutenants should appear upon deck without a wig, sword, and
ruffles; nor any midshipman, or other petty officer, be seen with a check shirt or dirty linen.
He also prohibited any person whatever, except Simper and his own servants, from coming into
the great cabin without first sending in to obtain leave. These singular regulations did not
prepossess the ship's company in his favour: but, on the contrary, gave scandal an opportunity
to be very busy with his character, and accuse him of maintaining a correspondence with his
surgeon not fit to be named.

In a few weeks, our ship being under sailing orders, I was in hope of revisiting my native
country, in a very short time, when the admiral's surgeon came on board, and, sending for Morgan
and me to the quarter-deck, gave us to understand there was a great scarcity of surgeons in
the West Indies; that he was commanded to detain one mate out of every great ship that was
bound for England; and desired us to agree between ourselves, before the next day at that hour,
which of us should stay behind. We were thunderstruck at this proposal, and stared at one another
some time without speaking; at length the Welshman broke silence, and offered to remain in
the West Indies, provided the admiral would give him a surgeon's warrant immediately; but he
was told there was no want of chief surgeons, and that he must be contented with the station
of mate, till he should be further provided for in due course. Whereupon Morgan flatly refused
to quit the ship for which the commissioners of the navy had appointed him; and the other told
him as plainly, that if we could not determine the affair by ourselves before to-morrow morning,
he must cast lots, and abide by his chance.

When I recalled to my remembrance the miseries I had undergone in England, where I had not
one friend to promote my interest, or favour my advancement in the navy, and the same time
reflected on the present dearth of surgeons in the West Indies, and the unhealthiness of the
climate, which every day almost reduced the number, I could not help thinking my success would
be much more certain and expeditious by my staying where I was, than by returning to Europe.
I therefore resolved to comply with a good grace, and next day, when we were ordered to throw
dice, told Morgan he needed not trouble himself, for I would voluntarily submit to the admiral's
pleasure. This frank declaration was commended by the gentleman, who assured me, it should
not fare the worse with me for my resignation. Indeed he was as good as his word, and that
very afternoon procured a warrant, appointing me surgeon's mate of the Lizard sloop-of-war,
which put me on a footing with every first mate in the service.

My ticket being made out, I put my chest and bedding on board a canoe that lay alongside, and,
having shook hands with my trusty friend the sergeant, and honest Jack Rattlin, who was bound
for Greenwich Hospital, I took my leave of Morgan with many tears, after we had exchanged our
sleeve buttons as remembrances of each other. Having presented my new warrant to the captain
of the Lizard, I inquired for the doctor, whom I no sooner saw than I recollected him to be
one of those young fellows with whom I had been committed to the round-house, during our frolic
with Jackson, as I have related before. He received me with a good deal of courtesy, and, when
I put him in mind of our former acquaintance, expressed great joy at seeing me again, and recommended
me to an exceeding good mess, composed of the gunner and master's mate. As there was not one
sick person in the ship, I got leave to go ashore next day with the gunner, who recommended
me to a Jew, that bought my ticket at the rate of forty per cent discount; and, having furnished
myself with the necessaries I wanted, returned on board in the evening, and, to my surprise,
found my old antagonist Crampley walking upon deck. Though I did not fear his enmity, I was
shocked at his appearance, and communicated my sentiments on that subject to Mr. Tomlins the
surgeon, who told me that Crampley, by dint of some friends about the admiral, had procured
a commission, constituting him lieutenant on board the Lizard; and advised me, now he was my
superior officer, to behave with some respect towards him, or else he would find a thousand
opportunities of using me ill. This advice was a bitter potion to me, whom pride and resentment
had rendered utterly incapable of the least submission to, or even of a reconciliation with,
the wretch who had, on many occasions, treated me so inhumanly: however, I resolved to have
as little connection as possible with him, and to ingratiate myself as much as I could with
the rest of the officers, whose friendship might be a bulwark to defend me from the attempts
of his malice.

In less than a week we sailed on a cruise, and having weathered the east end of the island,
had the good fortune to take a Spanish barcolongo, with her prize, which was an English ship
bound for Bristol, that sailed from Jamaica a fortnight before, without convoy. All the prisoners
who were well, we put onshore on the north side of the island; the prizes were manned with
Englishmen, and the command of the barcolongo given to my friend the master's mate, with orders
to carry them into Port Morant, and there to remain until the Lizard's cruise should be ended,
at which time she would touch at the same place in her way to Port Royal. With him I was sent
to attend the wounded Spaniards as well as Englishmen, who amounted to sixteen, and to take
care of them on shore in a house that was to be hired as an hospital. This destination gave
me a great deal of pleasure, as I should, for some time, be freed from the arrogance of Crampley,
whose inveteracy against me had already broken out on two or three occasions since he was become
a lieutenant. My messmate, who very much resembled my uncle, both in figure and disposition,
treated me on board of the prize with the utmost civility and confidence: and, among other
favours, made me a present of a silver-hilted hanger, and a pair of pistols mounted with the
same metal, which fell to his share in plundering the enemy. We arrived safely at Morant, and,
going on shore, pitched upon an empty storehouse; which we hired for the reception of the wounded,
who were brought to it next day, with beds and other necessaries; and four of the ship's company
appointed to attend them and obey me.

CHAPTER XXXVI

A strange adventure--in consequence of which I am extremely happy--Crampley does me in offices
with the Captain; but his malice is defeated by the good-nature and friendship of the surgeon--we
return to Port Royal--our Captain gets the command of a larger ship, and is succeeded by an
old man--Brayl is provided for--we receive orders to sail for England

When my patients were all in a fair way, my companion and commander, whose name was Brayl,
carried me up the country to the house of a rich planter, with whom he was acquainted, where
we were sumptuously entertained, and in the evening set out on our return to the ship. When
we had walked about a mile by moonlight, we perceived a horseman behind us, who coming up,
wished us good even, and asked which way we went? His voice, which was quite familiar to me,
no sooner struck my ear, than in spite of all my resolution and reflection, my hair bristled
up, and I was seized with a violent fit of trembling, which Brayl misinterpreting, bade me
be under no concern. I told him he was mistaken in the cause of my disorder; and, addressing
myself to the person on horseback said, "I could have sworn by your voice, that you were a
dear friend of mine, if I had not been certain of his death." To this address, after some pause,
he replied, "There are many voices as well as faces that resemble one another; but, pray, what
was your friend's name." I satisfied him in that particular, and gave a short detail of the
melancholy fate of Thompson, not without many sighs and some tears. A silence ensued, which
lasted some minutes, and then the conversation turned on different subjects, till we arrived
at a house on the road, where the horseman alighted, and begged with so much earnestness that
we would go in and drink a bowl of punch with him, that we could not resist. But, if I was
alarmed at his voice, what must my amazement be, when I discovered by the light the very person
of my lamented friend! Perceiving my confusion, which was extreme, he clasped me in his arms,
and bedewed my face with tears. It was some time ere I recovered the use of my reason, overpowered
with this event, and longer still before I could speak. So that all I was capable of was to
return his embraces, and to mingle the overflowings of my joy with his; whilst honest Brayl,
affected with the scene, wept as fast as either of us, and signified his participation of our
happiness by hugging us both, and capering about the room like a madman. At length, I retrieved
the use of my tongue, and cried, "Is it possible! you can be my friend Thompson? No certainly,
alas! he was drowned; and I am now under the deception of a dream!" He was at great pains to
convince me of his being the individual person whom I regretted, and bidding me sit down and
compose myself, promised to explain his sudden disappearance from the Thunder, and to account
for his being at present in the land of the living. This task he acquitted himself of, after
I had drunk a glass of punch, and recollected my spirits, by informing us, that with a determination
to rid himself of a miserable existence, he had gone in the night-time to the head, while the
ship was on her way, from whence he slipped down as softly as he could, by the bows into the
sea, where, after he was heartily ducked, he began to repent of his precipitation; and, as
he could swim very well, kept himself above water, in hopes of being taken up by some of the
ships astern; that, in this situation, he hailed a large vessel, and begged to be taken in,
but was answered that she was a heavy sailer, and therefore they did not choose to lose time
by bringing to; however, they threw an old chest overboard for his convenience, and told him,
that some of the ships astern would certainly save him; that no other vessel came within sight
or cry of him for the space of three hours, during which time he had the mortification to find
himself in the middle of the ocean alone, without other support or resting-place, but what
a few crazy boards afforded; till at last be discerned a small sloop steering towards him,
upon which he set up his throat, and had the good fortune to be heard and rescued from the
dreary waste by their boat, which was hoisted out on purpose.

"I was no sooner brought on board," continued he, "than I fainted, and, when I recovered my
senses, found myself in bed, regaled with a most noisome smell of onions and cheese, which
made me think at first that I was in my own hammock, alongside of honest Morgan, and that all
which had passed was no more than a dream. Upon inquiry, I understood that I was on board of
a schooner belonging to Rhode Island, bound for Jamaica, with a cargo of geese, pigs, onions,
and cheese, and that the master's name was Robertson, by birth a North Briton, whom I knew
at first sight to be an old sohoolfellow of mine. When I discovered myself to him, he was transported
with surprise and joy, and begged to know the occasion of my misfortune, which I did not think
fit to disclose, because I knew his notions with regard to religion were very severe and confined;
therefore contented myself with telling him I fell overboard by accident; but made no scruple
of explaining the nature of my disagreeable station, and of acquainting him with my determined
purpose never to return to the Thunder man-of-war. Although he was not of my opinion in that
particular, knowing that I must lose my clothes and what pay was due to me, unless I went back
to my duty; yet, when I described the circumstances of the hellish life I led under the tyrannic
sway of Oakum and Mackshane; and, among other grievances, hinted a dissatisfaction at the irreligious
deportment of my shipmates, and the want of the true presbyterian gospel doctrine; he changed
his sentiments, and conjured me with great vehemence and zeal to lay aside all thought of rising
in the navy; and, that he might show how much he had my interest at heart, undertook to provide
for me in some shape or other, before he should leave Jamaica. This promise he performed to
my heart's desire, by recommending me to a gentleman of fortune, with whom I have lived ever
since in quality of surgeon and overseer to his plantations. He and his lady are now at Kingston,
so that I am, for the present, master of this house, to which, from my soul, I bid you welcome,
and hope you will favour me with your company during the remaining part of the night."

I needed not a second invitation; but Mr. Brayl, who was a diligent and excellent officer,
could not be persuaded to sleep out of the ship; however, he supped with us, and, after having
drank a cheerful glass, set out for the vessel, which was not above three miles from the place,
escorted by a couple of stout negroes, whom Mr. Thompson ordered to conduct him. Never were
two friends more happy in the conversation of each other than we, for the time it lasted. I
related to him the particulars of our attempt upon Carthagena, of which he had heard but an
imperfect account; and he gratified me with a narration of every little incident of his life
since we parted. He assured me, it was with the utmost difficulty he could resist his inclination
of coming down to Port Royal, to see Morgan and me, of whom he had heard no tidings since the
day of our separation: but that he was restrained by the fear of being detained as a deserter.
He told me that, when he heard my voice in the dark, he was almost as much surprised as I was
at seeing him afterwards: and, in the confidence of friendship, disclosed a passion he entertained
for the only daughter of the gentleman with whom he lived, who, by his description, was a very
amiable young lady, and did not disdain his addresses; that he was very much favoured by her
parents; and did not despair of obtaining their consent to the match, which would at once render
him independent of the world. I congratulated him on his good fortune, which he protested should
never make him forget his friends; and, towards morning, we betook ourselves to rest.

Next day he accompanied me to the ship, where Mr. Brayl entertained him at dinner, and we having
spent the afternoon together, he took his leave of us in the evening, after he had forced upon
me ten pistoles, as a small token of his affection. In short, while he stayed here, we saw
one another every day, and generally ate at the same table, which was plentifully supplied
by him with all kinds of poultry, butcher's meat, oranges, limes, lemons, pine-apples, Madeira
wine, and excellent rum; so that this small interval of ten days was by far the most agreeable
period of my life.

At length the Lizard arrived; and my patients being all fit for duty, they and I were ordered
on board of her, where I understood from Mr. Tomlins that there was a shyness between the lieutenant
and him on my account; the rancorous villain having taken the opportunity of my absence to
fill the captain's ears with a thousand scandalous stories to my prejudice; among other things
affirming, that I had been once transported for theft, and that when I was in the Thunder man-of-war,
I had been whipped for the same crime. The surgeon, on the other hand, having heard my whole
story from my own mouth, defended me strenuously, and in the course of that good-natured office
recounted all the instances of Crampley's malice against me while I remained on board of that
ship. Which declaration, while it satisfied the captain of my innocence, made the lieutenant
as much my defender's enemy as mine. The infernal behaviour of Crampley, with regard to me,
added such fuel to his former resentment, that, at certain times, I was quite beside myself
with the desire of revenge, and was even tempted to pistol him on the quarter-deck, though
an infamous death must inevitably have been my reward. But the surgeon, who was my confidant,
argued against such a desperate action so effectually, that I stifled the flame which consumed
me for the present, and resolved to wait for a more convenient opportunity. In the meantime,
that Mr. Tomlins might be the more convinced of the wrongs I suffered by this fellow's slander,
I begged he would go and visit Mr. Thompson, whose wonderful escape I had made him acquainted
with, and inquire of him into the particulars of my conduct, while he was my fellow-mate.

This request the surgeon complied with, more through curiosity to see a person whose fate had
been so extraordinary, than to confirm his good opinion of me, which he assured me was already
firmly established. He therefore set out for the dwelling-place of my friend, with a letter
of introduction from me; and being received with all the civility and kindness I expected,
returned to the ship, not only satisfied with my character beyond the power of doubt or insinuation,
but also charmed with the affability and conversation of Thompson, who loaded him and me with
presents of fresh stock, liquors, and fruit. As he would not venture to come and see us on
board, lest Cramplay should know and detain him; when the time of our departure approached,
I obtained leave to go and bid him farewell. After we had vowed an everlasting friendship,
he pressed upon me a purse, with four doubloons, which I refused as long as I could without
giving umbrage; and, having cordially embraced each other, I returned on board, where I found
a small box, with a letter directed for me, to the care of Mr. Tomlins. Knowing the superscription
to be of Thompson's handwriting, I opened it with some surprise, and learned that this generous
friend, not content with loading me with the presents already mentioned, had sent, for my use
and acceptance, half a dozen fine shirts, and as many linen waistcoats and caps, with twelve
pair of new thread stockings. Being thus provided with money and all necessaries for the comfort
of life, I began to look upon myself as a gentleman of some consequence, and felt my pride
dilate a pace.

Next day we sailed for Port Royal, where we arrived safely with our prizes; and, as there was
nothing to do on board, I went ashore, and having purchased a laced waistcoat, with some other
clothes, at a sale, made a swaggering figure for some days among the taverns, where I ventured
to play a little at hazard, and came off with fifty pistoles in my pocket. Meanwhile our captain
was promoted to a ship of twenty guns, and the command of the Lizard given to a man turned
of fourscore, who had been lieutenant since the reign of King William, and, notwithstanding
his long service, would have probably died in that station, had he not applied some prize-money
he had lately received, to make interest with his superiors. My friend Brayl was also made
an officer about the same time, after he had served in quality of a midshipman and mate for
five and twenty years. Soon after these alterations, the admiral pitched upon our ship to carry
home dispatches for the ministry; and we set sail for England, having first scrubbed her bottom,
and taken in provision and water for the occasion.

CHAPTER XXXVII

We depart for Europe--a misunderstanding arises between the Captain and the Surgeon, through
the scandalous aspersions of Crampley--the Captain dies--Crampley tyrannises over the surgeon,
who falls a Victim for his Cruelty--I am also ill-used--the Ship strikes--the behaviour of
Crampley and the Seamen on that occasion---I get on shore, challenge the Captain to single
combat--am treacherously knocked down, wounded, and robbed

Now that I could return to my native country in a creditable way, I felt excessive pleasure
in finding myself out of sight of that fatal island, which has been the grave of so many Europeans:
and, as I was accommodated with everything to make the passage agreeable, I resolved to enjoy
myself as much as the insolence of Crampley would permit. This insidious slanderer had found
means already to cause a misunderstanding between the surgeon and captain, who, by his age
and infirmities, was rendered intolerably peevish, his disposition having also been soured
by a long course of disappointments. He had a particular aversion to all young men, especially
to surgeons, whom he considered unnecessary animals on board of a ship; and, in consequence
of these sentiments, never consulted the doctor, notwithstanding his being seized with a violent
fit of the gout and gravel, but applied to a cask of Holland gin, which was his sovereign prescription
against all distempers: whether he was at this time too sparing, or took an overdose of his
cordial, certain it is, he departed in the night, without any ceremony, which indeed was a
thing he always despised, and was found stiff next morning, to the no small satisfaction of
Crampley, who succeeded to the command of the vessel. For that very reason, Mr. Tomlins and
I had no cause to rejoice at this event, fearing that the tyranny of our new commander would
now be as unlimited as his power. The first day of his command justified our apprehensions:
for, on pretence that the decks were too much crowded, he ordered the surgeon's hencoops, with
all his fowls, to be thrown overboard; and at the same time prohibited him and me from walking
on the quarter-deck.

Mr. Tomlins could not help complaining of these injuries, and in the course of his expostulation
dropped some hasty words, of which Crampley taking hold, confined him to his cabin, where,
in a few days, for want of air he was attacked by a fever, which soon put an end to his life,
after he had made his will, by which he bequeathed all his estate, personal and real, to his
sister, and left to me his watch and instruments as memorials of his friendship. I was penetrated
with grief on this melancholy occasion; the more because there was nobody on board to whom
I could communicate my sorrows, or of whom I could receive the least consolation or advice.
Crampley was so far from discovering the least remorse for his barbarity, at the news of the
surgeon's death, that he insulted his memory in the most abusive manner, and affirmed he had
poisoned himself out of pure fear, dreading to be brought to a court-martial for mutiny; for
which reason he would not suffer the service of the dead to be read over his body before it
was thrown overboard.

Nothing but a speedy deliverance could have supported me under the brutal sway of this bashaw,
who, to render my life more irksome, signified to my messmates a desire that I should be expelled
from their society. This was no sooner hinted, than they granted his request; and I was fain
to eat in a solitary manner by myself during the rest of the passage, which, however, soon
drew to a period.

We had been seven weeks at sea, when the gunner told the captain that, by his reckoning, we
must be in soundings, and desired he would order the lead to be heaved. Crampley swore he did
not know how to keep the ship's way, for we were not within a hundred leagues of soundings,
and therefore he would not give himself the trouble to cast the lead. Accordingly we continued
our course all that afternoon and night, without shortening sail, although the gunner pretended
to discover Scilly light; and next morning protested in form against the captain's conduct,
for which he was put in confinement, We discovered no land all that day, and Crampley was still
so infatuated as to neglect sounding; but at three o'clock in the morning the ship struck,
and remained fast on a sand-bank. This accident alarmed the whole crew; the boat was immediately
hoisted out, but as we could not discern which way the shore lay, we were obliged to wait for
daylight. In the meantime, the wind increased, and the waves beat against the sloop with such
violence, that we expected she would have gone to pieces. The gunner was released and consulted:
he advised the captain to cut away the mast, in order to lighten her; this expedient was performed
without success: the sailors, seeing things in a desperate situation, according to custom,
broke up the chests belonging to the officers, dressed themselves in their clothes, drank their
liquors without ceremony, and drunkenness, tumult, and confusion ensued.

In the midst of this uproar, I went below to secure my own effects, and found the carpenter's
mate hewing down the purser's cabin with his hatchet, whistling all the while with great composure.
When I asked his intention in so doing, he replied, very calmly, "I only want to taste the
purser's rum, that's all, master." At that instant the purser coming down, and seeing his effects
going to wreck, complained bitterly of the injustice done to him, and asked the fellow what
occasion he had for liquor when, in all likelihood, he would be in eternity in a few minutes.
"All's one for that," said plunderer, "let us live while we can." "Miserable wretch that thou
art!" cried the purser, "what must be thy lot in another world, if thou diest in the commission
of robbery?" "Why, hell, I suppose," replied the other, with great deliberation, while the
purser fell on his knees, and begged of Heaven that we might not all perish for the sake of Jonas.

During this dialogue I clothed myself in my bed apparel, girded on my hanger, stuck my pistols,
loaded, in my belt, disposed of all my valuable moveables about my person, and came upon deck
with a resolution of taking the first opportunity to get on shore, which, when the day broke,
appeared at the distance of three miles ahead. Crampley, finding his efforts to get the ship
off ineffectual, determined to consult his own safety, by going into the boat, which he had
no sooner done, than the ship's company followed so fast, that she would have sunk alongside,
had not some one wiser than the rest cut the rope and put off. But before this happened, I
had made several attempts to get in, and was always balked by the captain, who was so eager
in excluding me, that he did not mind the endeavours of any other body. Enraged at this inhuman
partiality, and seeing the rope cut, I pulled one of my pistols from my belt, and cocking it,
swore I would shoot any man who would presume to obstruct my entrance. So saying, I leaped
with my full exertion, and got on board of the boat with the loss of the skin of my shins.
I chanced in my descent to overturn Crampley, who no sooner got up than he struck at me several
times with a cutlass, and ordered the men to throw me overboard; but they were too anxious
about their own safety to mind what he said. Though the boat was very deeply loaded, and the
sea terribly high, we made shift to get upon dry land in less than an hour after we parted
from the sloop. As soon as I set my foot on terra firma, my indignation, which had boiled so
long within me, broke out against Crampley, whom I immediately challenged to single combat,
presenting my pistols, that he might take his choice: he took one without hesitation, and,
before I could cock the other, fired in my face, throwing the pistol after the shot. I felt
myself stunned, and imagining the bullet had entered my brain, discharged mine as quick as
possible, that I might not die unrevenged: then flying upon my antagonist, knocked out several
of his fore-teeth with the butt-end of the piece, and would certainly have made an end of him
with that instrument, had he not disengaged himself, and seized his cutlass, which he had given
to his servant when he received the pistol. Seeing him armed in this manner, I drew my hanger,
and, having flung my pistol at his head, closed with him in a transport of fury, and thrust
my weapon into his mouth, which it enlarged on one side to his ear. Whether the smart of this
wound disconcerted him, or the unevenness of the ground made him reel, I know not, but he staggered
some paces back: I followed close, and with one stroke cut the tendons of the back of his hand,
Upon which his cutlass dropped, and he remained defenceless. I know not with what cruelty my
rage might have inspired me, if I had not at that instant been felled to the ground by a blow
on the back part of my head, which deprived me of all sensation. In this deplorable situation,
exposed to the rage of an incensed barbarian, and the rapine of an inhuman crew, I remained
for some time; and whether any disputes arose among them during the state of my annihilation,
I cannot pretend to determine; but in one particular they seemed to have been unanimous, and
acted with equal dexterity and dispatch; for when I recovered the use of my understanding,
I found myself alone in a desolate place, stripped of my clothes, money, watch, buckles, and
everything but my shoes, stockings, breeches and shirt. What a discovery must this have been
to me, who, but an hour before, was worth sixty guineas in cash! I cursed the hour of my birth,
the parents that gave me being, the sea that did not swallow me up, the poniard of the enemy,
which could not find the way to my heart, the villainy of those who had left me in that miserable
condition; and in the ecstacy of despair resolved to be still where I was, and perish. With
some difficulty I got upon my legs, and having examined my body, found I had received no other
injury than two large contused wounds, one on the fore and another on the hinder part of my
head, which seemed to be occasioned by the same weapon, namely, the butt-end of a pistol. I
looked towards the sea, but could discern no remains of the ship; so that I concluded she was
gone to pieces, and that those who remained in her had perished: but, as I afterwards learned,
the gunner, who had more sagacity than Crampley, observing that it was flood when he left her,
and that she would probably float at high water, made no noise about getting on shore, but
continued on deck, in hopes of bringing her safe into some harbour, after her commander should
have deserted her, for which piece of service he expected, no doubt, to be handsomely rewarded.
This scheme he accordingly executed, and was promised great things by the Admiralty for saving
his Majesty's ship: but I never heard he reaped the fruits of his expectation. As for my own
part, I directed my course towards a small cottage I perceived, and in the road picked up a
seaman's old jacket, which I suppose the thief who dressed himself in my clothes had thrown
away: this was a very comfortable acquisition to me, who was almost stiff with cold: I therefore
put it on; and, as my natural heat revived, my wounds, which had left off bleeding, burst out
afresh; so that, finding myself excessively exhausted, I was about to lie down in the fields,
when I discovered a barn on my left hand, within a few yards of me; thither I made shift to
stagger, and finding the door open, went in, but saw nobody; however, I threw myself upon a
truss of straw, hoping to be soon relieved by some person or other. I had not lain here many
minutes, when I saw a countryman come in with a pitchfork in his hand, which he was upon the
point of thrusting into the straw that concealed me, and in all probability would have done
my business, had I not uttered a dreadful groan, after having essayed in vain to speak. This
melancholy note alarmed the clown, who started back, and discovering a body all besmeared with
blood, stood trembling, with the pitchfork extended before him, his hair bristling up, his
eyes staring, his nostrils dilated, and his mouth wide open. At another time I should have
been much diverted by this figure, which preserved the same attitude very near ten minutes,
during which time I made many unsuccessful efforts to implore his compassion and assistance;
but my tongue failed me, and my language was only a repetition of groans. At length an old
man arrived, who, seeing the other in such a posture, cried, "Mercy upon en! the leaad's bewitched!
why, Dick, beest thou besayd thyself!" Dick, without moving his eyes from the object that terrified
him, replied, "O vather! vatber! here be either the devil or a dead mon: I doant know which
o'en, but a groans woundily." The father, whose eyesight was none of the best, pulled out his
spectacles, and, having applied them to his nose reconnoitered me over his son's shoulder:
but no sooner did he behold me, than he was seized with a fit of shaking, even more violent
than Dick's, and, with a broken accent, addressed me thus: "In the name of the Vather, Zun,
and Holy Ghost, I charge you, an you been Satan, to be gone to the Red Zen; but an you be a
moordered mon, speak, that you may have a Christom burial."

As I was not in a condition to satisfy him in this particular, he repeated his conjuration
to no purpose, and they continued a good while in the agonies of fear. At length the father
proposed that the son should draw nearer, and take a more distinct view of the apparition;
but Dick was of opinion that his father should advance first, he being an old man past his
labour and, if he received any mischief, the loss would be the smaller; whereas he himself
might escape, and be useful, in his generation. This prudential reason had no effect upon the
senior, who still kept Dick between me and him. In the meantime I endeavoured to raise one
hand as a signal of distress, but had only strength sufficient to produce a rustling among
the straw, which discomposed the young peasant so much, that he sprang out at the door, and
overthrew his father in his flight. The old gentleman would not spend time in getting up, but
crawled backwards like a crab, with great speed, till he had got over the threshold, mumbling
exorcisms all the way. I was exceedingly mortified to find myself in danger of perishing through
the ignorance and cowardice of these clowns; and felt my spirits decay apace, when an old woman
entered the barn, followed by the two fugitives and with great intrepidity advanced to the
place where I lay, saying, "If it be the devil I fearen not, and for a dead mon a can do us
no harm." When she saw my condition, she cried, "Here be no devil, but in your en fool's head.
Here be a poor miserable wretch bleeding to death, and if a dies, we must be at the charge
of burying him; therefore, Dick, go vetch the old wheelbarrow and put en in, and carry en to
goodman Hodge's backdoor; he is more able than we to pay out money upon poor vagrants." Her
advice was taken, and immediately put in execution; I was rolled to the other farmer's door,
where I was tumbled out like a heap of dung; and should certainly have fallen a prey to the
hogs, if my groans had not disturbed the family, and brought some of them out to view my situation.
But Hodge resembled the Jew more than the good Samaritan, and ordered me to be carried to the
house of the parson, whose business it was to practise as well as to preach charity; observing
that it was sufficient for him to pay his quota towards the maintenance of the poor belonging
to his own parish. When I was set down at the vicar's gate, he fell into a mighty passion,
and threatened to excommunicate him who sent, as well as those who brought me, unless they
would move me immediately to another place. About this time I fainted with the fatigue I had
undergone, and afterwards understood that I was bandied from door to door through a whole village,
nobody having humanity enough to administer the least relief to me, Until an old woman, who
was suspected of witchcraft by the neighbourhood, hearing of my distress, received me into
her house, and, having dressed my wounds, brought me to myself with cordials of her own preparing.
I was treated with great care and tenderness by this grave matron, who, after I had recovered
some strength, desired to know the particulars of my last disaster. This piece of satisfaction
I could not refuse to one who had saved my life, therefore related all my adventures without
exaggeration or reserve. She seemed surprised at the vicissitudes I had undergone, and drew
a happy presage of my future life from my past suffering, then launched out into the praise
of adversity, with so much ardour and good sense, that I concluded she was a person who had
seen better days, and conceived a longing desire to hear her story. She perceived my drift
by some words I dropped, and smiling told me, there was nothing either entertaining or extraordinary
in the course of her fortune; but, however, she would communicate it to me, in consideration
of the confidence I had reposed in her. "It is of little consequence," said she, "to tell the
names of my parents, who are dead many years ago; let it suffice to assure you, they were wealthy,
and had no other child than me; so that I was looked upon as heiress to a considerable estate,
and teased with addresses on that account. Among the number of my admirers, there was a young
gentleman of no fortune, whose sole dependence was on his promotion in the army, in which,
at that time, he bore a lieutenant's commission. I conceived an affection for this amiable
officer, which, in a short time, increased to a violent passion, and without entering into
minute circumstances, married him privately. We had not enjoyed one another long in stolen
interviews, when he was ordered with his regiment to Flanders; but, before he set out, it was
agreed between us, that we should declare our marriage to my father by letter, and implore
his pardon for the step we had taken without his approbation." This discovery was made while
I was abroad visiting, and just as I was about to return home, I received a letter from my
father, importing that, since I had acted so undutifully and meanly as to marry a beggar, without
his privity or consent, to the disgrace of his family as well as the disappointment of his
hopes, he renounced me to the miserable fate I had entailed upon myself, and charged me never
to set foot within his doors again. This rigid sentence was confirmed by my mother, who, in
a postscript, gave me to understand that her sentiments were exactly conformable to those of
my father, and that I might save myself the trouble of making any applications, for her resolutions
were unalterable. Thunderstruck with my evil fortune I called a coach, and drove to my husband's
lodgings, where I found him waiting the event of his letter. Though he could easily divine
by my looks the issue of his declaration, he read with great steadiness the epistle I had received;
and with a smile full of tenderness, which I shall never forget, embraced me, saying, "I believe
the good lady your mother might have spared herself the trouble of the last part of her postscript.
Well, my dear Betty, you must lay aside all thoughts of a coach, till I can procure the command
of a regiment." This unconcerned behaviour, while it enabled me to support my reverse of fortune,
at the same time endeared him to me the more, by convincing me of his disinterested views in
espousing me. I was next day boarded in company with the wife of another officer, who had long
been the friend and confidant of my husband, at a village not far from London, where they parted
with us in the most melting manner, went to Flanders, and were killed in sight of one another
at the battle of the Wood.

"Why should I tire you with a description of our unutterable sorrow at the fatal news of this
event, the remembrance of which now fills my aged eyes with tears! When our grief subsided
a little, and reflection came to our aid, we found ourselves deserted by the whole world, and
in danger of perishing by want; whereupon we made application for the pension, and were put
upon the list. Then, vowing eternal friendship, sold our jewels and superfluous clothes, retired
to this place (which is in the county of Sussex) bought this little house, where we lived many
years in a solitary manner, indulging our mutual sorrow, till it pleased Heaven to call away
my companion two years ago; since which time I have lingered out an unhappy being, in hopes
of a speedy dissolution, when I promise myself the eternal reward of all my cares. In the meantime,"
continued she, "I must inform you of the character I bear among my neighbours. My conversation
being different from that of the inhabitants of the village, my recluse way of life, my skill
in curing distempers, which I acquired from books since I settled here, and lastly, my age
having made the common people look upon me as something preternatural, and I am actually, at
this hour, believed to be a witch. The parson of the parish, whose acquaintance I have not
been at much pains to cultivate, taking umbrage at my supposed disrespect, has contributed
not a little towards the confirmation of this opinion, by dropping certain hints to my prejudice
among the vulgar, who are also very much scandalised at my entertaining this poor tabby cat
with the collar about her neck, which was a favourite of my deceased companion."

The whole behaviour of this venerable person was so primitive, innocent, sensible, and humane,
that I contracted a filial respect for her, and begged her advice with regard to my future
conduct, as soon as I was in a condition to act for myself. She dissuaded me from a design
I had formed of travelling to Louder, in hopes of retrieving my clothes and pay, by returning
to my ship, which by this time I read in the newspaper was safely arrived in the River Thames:
"because," said she, "you run the hazard of being treated not only as a deserter in quitting
the sloop, but also as a mutineer, in assaulting your commanding officer, to the malice of
whose revenge you will moreover be exposed." She then promised to recommend me, as servant
to a single lady of her acquaintance, who lived in the neighbourhood with her nephew, who was
a young foxhunter of great fortune, where I might be very happy, provided I could bear with
the disposition and manners of my mistress, which were somewhat whimsical and particular. But,
above all things, she counselled me to conceal my story, the knowledge of which would effectually
poison my entertainment; for it was a maxim, among most people of condition, that no gentleman
ought to be admitted into a family as a domestic, lest he become lazy, and insolent. I was
fain to embrace this humble proposal, because my affairs were desperate; and in a few days
was hired by this lady, to serve in quality of her footman, having been represented by my hostess
as a young man who was bred up to the sea by his relations against his will, and had suffered
shipwreck, which had increased his disgust to that way of life so much, that he rather chose
to go to service on shore, than enter himself on board of any other ship. Before I took possession
of my new place, she gave me a sketch of my mistress's character, that I might know better
how to regulate my conduct.

"Your lady," said she, "is a maiden of forty years, not so remarkable for her beauty as her
learning and taste, which is famous all over the country. Indeed, she is a perfect female virtuoso,
and so eager after the pursuit of knowledge that she neglects her person even to a degree of
sluttishness; this negligence, together with her contempt of the male part of the creation,
gives her nephew no great concern, as by these means he will probably keep her fortune, which
is considerable in the family. He therefore permits her to live in her own way, which is something
extraordinary, and gratifies her in all her whimsical desires. Her apartment is at some distance
from the other inhabited parts of the house; and consists of a dining-room, bedchamber, and
study; she keeps a cook maid, a waiting-woman, and footman, of her own, and seldom eats or
converses with any of the family but her niece, who is a very lovely creature, and humours
her aunt often to the prejudice of her own health by sitting up with her whole nights together;
for your mistress is too much of a philosopher to be swayed by the custom of the world, and
never sleeps nor eats like other people. Among other odd notions, she professes the principles
of Rosicrucius, and believes the earth, air, and sea, are inhabited by invisible beings, with
whom it is possible for the human species to entertain correspondence and intimacy, on the
easy condition of living chaste. As she hopes one day to be admitted into an acquaintance of
this kind, she no sooner heard of me and my cat, than she paid me a visit, with a view, as
she has since owned, to be introduced to my familiar; and was greatly mortified to find herself
disappointed in her expectation. Being by this visionary turn of mind abstracted as it were
from the world, she cannot advert to the common occurrences of life; and therefore is frequently
so absent as to commit very strange mistakes and extravagancies, which you will do well to
rectify and repair, as your prudence shall suggest."

CHAPTER XXXIX

My Reception by that Lady--I become enamoured of Narcissa--recount the particulars of my last
misfortune--acquire the good opinion of my Mistress--an Account of the young Squire--I am made
acquainted with more particulars of Narcissa's Situation--conceive a mortal hatred against
Sir Timothy--examine my Lady's library and performances--her extravagant behaviour

Fraught with these useful instructions, I repaired to the place of her habitation, and was
introduced by the waiting-woman to the presence of my lady, who had not before seen me. She
sat in her study, with one foot on the ground, and the other upon a high stool at some distance
from her seat; her sandy locks hung down, in a disorder I cannot call beautiful, from her head,
which was deprived of its coif, for the benefit of scratching with one hand, while she held
the stump of a pen in the other. Her forehead was high and wrinkled; her eyes were large, gray,
and prominent; her nose was long, and aquiline: her mouth of vast capacity, her visage meagre
and freckled, and her chin peaked like a shoemaker's paring knife; her upper lip contained
a large quantity of plain Spanish, which, by continual falling, had embroidered her neck, that
was not naturally very white, and the breast of her gown, that flowed loose about her with
a negligence that was truly poetic, discovering linen that was very fine, and, to all appearance,
never washed but in Castalian streams. Around her lay heaps of books, globes, quadrants, telescopes,
and other learned apparatus; her snuff-box stood at her right hand: at her left hand lay her
handkerchief, sufficiently used, and a convenience to spit in appeared on one side of her chair.
She being in a reverie when we entered, the maid did not think proper to disturb her; so that
we waited some minutes unobserved, during which time she bit the quill several times, altered
her position, made many wry faces, and, at length, with an air of triumph, repeated aloud:

"Nor dare th'immortal gods my rage oppose!"

Having committed her success to paper, she turned towards the door, and perceiving us, cried,
"What's the matter?" "Here's the young man," replied my conductress, "whom Mrs. Sagely recommended
as a footman to your ladyship." On this information she stared in my face for a considerable
time, and then asked my name, which I thought proper to conceal under that of John Brown. After
having surveyed me with a curious eye, she broke out into, "O! ay, thou wast shipwrecked, I
remember. Whether didst thou come on shore on the back of a whale or a dolphin?" To this I
answered, I had swam ashore without any assistance. Then she demanded to know if I had ever
been at the Hellespont, and swam from Sestos to Abydos. I replied in the negative; upon which
she bade the maid order a suit of new livery for me, and instruct me in the articles of my
duty: so she spit in her snuff-box, and wiped her nose with her cap, which lay on the table,
instead of a handkerchief.

We returned to the kitchen, where I was regaled by the maids, who seemed to vie with each other
in expressing their regard for me; and from them I understood, that my business consisted in
cleaning knives and forks, laying the cloth, waiting at table, carrying messages, and attending
my lady when she went abroad. There was a very good suit of livery in the house, which had
belonged to my predecessor deceased, and it fitted me exactly; so that there was no occasion
for employing a tailor on my account. I had not been long equipped in this manner, when my
lady's bell rung; upon which, I ran up stairs, and found her stalking about the room in her
shift and under petticoat only; I would immediately have retired as became me, but she bade
me come in, and air a clean shift for her; which operation I having performed with some backwardness,
she put it on before me without any ceremony, and I verily believe was ignorant of my sex all
that time, as being quite absorbed in contemplation. About four o'clock in the afternoon I
was ordered to lay the cloth, and place two covers, which I understood were for my mistress
and her niece, whom I had not as yet seen. Though I was not very dexterous at this work, I
performed it pretty well for a beginner, and, when dinner was upon the table, saw my mistress
approach, accompanied by the young lady, whose name for the present shall be Narcissa. So much
sweetness appeared in the countenance and carriage of this amiable apparition, that my heart
was captivated at first sight, and while dinner lasted, I gazed upon her without intermission.
Her age seemed to be seventeen, her stature tall, her shape unexceptionable, her hair, that
fell down upon her ivory neck in ringlets, black as jet; her arched eyebrows of the same colour;
her eyes piercing, yet tender; her lips of the consistence and hue of cherries; her complexion
clear, delicate and healthy; her aspect noble, ingenuous, and humane; and the whole person
so ravishingly delightful, that it was impossible for any creature endued with sensibility,
to see without admiring, and admire without loving her to excess. I began to curse the servile
station that placed me so far beneath the regard of this idol of my adoration! and yet I blessed
my fate, that enabled me to enjoy daily the sight of so much perfection! When she spoke I listened
with pleasure; but when she spoke to me, my soul was thrilled with an extacy of tumultuous
joy. I was even so happy as to be the subject of their conversation; for Narcissa, having observed
me, said to her aunt, "I see your new footman is come." Then addressing herself to me, asked,
with ineffable complacency, if I was the person who had been so cruelly used by robbers? When
I had satisfied her in this; she expressed a desire of knowing the other particulars of my
fortune, both before and since my being shipwrecked: hereupon (as Mrs. Sagely had counselled
me) I told her that I had been bound apprentice to the master of a ship, contrary to my inclination,
which ship had foundered at sea; that I and four more, who chanced to be on deck when she went
down, made shift to swim to the shore, when my companions, after having overpowered me, stripped
me to the shirt, and left me, as they imagined, dead of the wounds I received in my own defence.
Then I related the circumstances of being found in a barn, with the inhuman treatment I met
with from the country people and parson; the description of which, I perceived, drew tears
from the charming creature's eyes. When I had finished my recital, my mistress, said, "Ma foi!
le garcon est bien fait!" To which opinion Narcissa assented, with a compliment to my understanding,
in the same language, that flattered my vanity extremely.

The conversation, among other subjects, turned upon the young squire, whom my lady inquired
after under the title of the Savage; and was informed by her niece that he was still in bed,
repairing the fatigue of last night's debauch, and recruiting strength and spirits to undergo
a fox chase to-morrow morning, in company with Sir Timothy Thicket, Squire Bumper, and a great
many other gentlemen of the same stamp, whom he had invited on that occasion! so that by daybreak
the whole house would be in an uproar. This was a very disagreeable piece of news to the virtuoso,
who protested she would stuff her ears with cotton when she went to bed, and take a dose of
opium to make her sleep the more sound, that she might not be disturbed and distracted by the
clamour of the brutes.

When their dinner was over, I and my fellow servants sat down to ours in the kitchen, where
I understood that Sir Timothy Thicket was a wealthy knight in the neighbourhood, between whom
and Narcissa a match had been projected by her brother, who promised at the same time to espouse
Sir Timothy's sister; by which means, as their fortunes were pretty equal, the young ladies
would be provided for, and their brothers be never the poorer; but that the ladies did not
concur in the scheme, each of them entertaining a hearty contempt for the person allotted to
her for a husband by this agreement. This information begat in me a mortal aversion to Sir
Timothy, whom I looked upon as my rival, and cursed in my heart for his presumption.

Next morning, by daybreak, being awakened by the noise of the hunters and hounds, I rose to
view the cavalcade, and had a sight of my competitor, whose accomplishments (the estate excluded)
did not seem brilliant enough to give me much uneasiness with respect to Narcissa, who, I flattered
myself, was not to be won by such qualifications as he was master of, either as to person or
mind. My mistress, notwithstanding her precaution, was so much disturbed by her nephew's company,
that she did not rise till five o'clock in the afternoon; so that I had an opportunity of examining
her study at leisure, to which examination I was strongly prompted by my curiosity. Here I
found a thousand scraps of her own poetry, consisting of three, four, ten, twelve, and twenty
lines, on an infinity of subjects, which, as whim inspired, she had begun, without constancy
or capacity to bring to any degree of composition: but, what was very extraordinary in a female
poet, there was not the least mention made of love in any of her performances. I counted fragments
of five tragedies, the titles of which were "The Stern Philosopher," "The Double," "The Sacrilegious
Traitor," "The Fall of Lucifer," and "The Last Day." From whence I gathered, that her disposition
was gloomy, and her imagination delighted with objects of horror. Her library was composed
of the best English historians, poets, and philosophers; of all the French critics and poets,
and of a few books in Italian, chiefly poetry, at the head of which were Tasso and Ariosto,
pretty much used. Besides these, translations of the classics into French, but not one book
in Greek or Latin; a circumstance that discovered her ignorance in these languages.

After having taken a full view of this collection, I retired, and at the usual time was preparing
to lay the cloth, when I was told by the maid that her mistress was still in bed, and had been
so affected with the notes of the hounds in the morning, that she actually believed herself
a hare beset by the hunters, and begged a few greens to munch for breakfast. When I expressed
my surprise in this unaccountable imagination she gave me to understand that her lady was very
much subject to whims of this nature; sometimes fancying herself an animal, sometimes a piece
of furniture, during which conceited transformations it was very dangerous to come near her,
especially when she represented a beast; for that lately, in the character of a cat, she had
flown at her, and scratched her face in a terrible manner: that some months ago, she prophesied
the general conflagration was at hand, and nothing would be able to quench it but her water,
which therefore she kept so long, that her life was in danger, and she must needs have died
of the retention, had they not found an expedient to make her evacuate, by kindling a bonfire
under her chamber window and persuading her that the house was in flames: upon which, with
great deliberation, she bade them bring all the tubs and vessels they could find to be filled
for the preservation of the house, into one of which she immediately discharged the cause of
her distemper. I was also informed that nothing contributed so much to the recovery of her
reason as music, which was always administered on those occasions by Narcissa, who played perfectly
well on the harpsichord, and to whom she (the maid) was just then going to intimate her aunt's
disorder.

She was no sooner gone than I was summoned by the bell to my lady's chamber, where I found
her sitting squat on her hands on the floor, in the manner of puss when she listens to the
outcries of her pursuers. When I appeared, she started up with an alarmed look, and sprang
to the other side of the room to avoid me, whom, without doubt, she mistook for a beagle thirsting
after her life. Perceiving her extreme confusion, I retired, and on the staircase met the adorable
Narcissa coming up, to whom I imparted the situation of my mistress; she said not a word, but
smiling with unspeakable grace, went into her aunt's apartment, and in a little time my ears
were ravished with the efforts of her skill. She accompanied the instrument with a voice so
sweet and melodious, that I did not wonder at the surprising change it produced on the spirits
of my mistress which composed to peace and sober reflection.

About seven o'clock, the hunters arrived with the skins of two foxes and one badger, carried
before them as trophies of their success; and when they were about to sit down to dinner (or
supper) Sir Timothy Thicket desired that Narcissa would honour the table with her presence;
but this request, notwithstanding her brother's threats and entreaties, she refused, on pretence
of attending her aunt, who was indisposed; so I enjoyed the satisfaction of seeing my rival
mortified: but this disappointment made no great impression on him, who consoled himself with
the bottle, of which the whole company became so enamoured that, after a most horrid uproar
of laughing, singing, swearing, and fighting, they were all carried to bed in a state of utter
oblivion. My duty being altogether detached from the squire and his family, I led a pretty
easy and comfortable life, drinking daily intoxicating draughts of love from the charms of
Narcissa, which brightened on my contemplation every day more and more. Inglorious as my station
was, I became blind to my own unworthiness, and even conceived hopes of one day enjoying this
amiable creature, whose, affability greatly encouraged these presumptuous thoughts.

CHAPTER XL

My mistress is surprised at my learning--communicates her performances to me--I impart some
of mine to her--am mortified at her faint praise--Narcissa approves of my conduct--I gain an
involuntary conquest over the cookwench and dairymaid--their mutual resentment and insinuations--the
jealousy of their lovers

During this season of love and tranquillity, my muse, which had lain dormant so long, awoke,
and produced several small performances on the subject of my flame. But as it concerned me
nearly to remain undiscovered in my character and sentiments, I was under a necessity of mortifying
my desire of praise, by confining my works to my own perusal and applause. In the meantime
I strove to insinuate myself into the good opinion of both ladies; and succeeded so well, by
my diligence and dutiful behaviour, that in a little time I was at least a favourite servant;
and frequently enjoyed the satisfaction of hearing myself mentioned in French and Italian,
with some degree of warmth and surprise by the dear object of all my wishes, as a person who
had so much of the gentleman in my appearance and discourse, that she could not for her soul
treat me like a common lacquey. My prudence and modesty were not long proof against these bewitching
compliments. One day, while I waited at dinner, the conversation turned upon a knotty passage
of Tasso's Gierusalem, which, it seems, had puzzled them both: after a great many unsatisfactory
conjectures, my mistress, taking the book out of her pocket, turned up the place in question,
and read the sentence over and over without success; at length, despairing of finding the author's
meaning, she turned to me, saying, "Come hither, Bruno; let us see what fortune will do for
us: I will interpret to thee what goes before, and what follows this obscure paragraph, the
particular words of which I will also explain, that thou mayst, by comparing one with another,
guess the sense of that which perplexes us." I was too vain to let slip this opportunity of
displaying my talents; therefore, without hesitation, read and explained the whole of that
which had disconcerted them, to the utter astonishment of both. Narcissa's face and lovely
neck were overspread with blushes, from which I drew a favourable opinion, while her aunt,
after having stared at me a good while with a look of amazement, exclaimed, "In the name of
heaven who art thou?" I told her I had picked up a smattering of Italian, during a voyage up
the Straits. At this explanation she shook her head, and observed that no smatterer could read
as I had done. She then desired to know if I understood French. To which question I answered
in the affirmative. She asked if I was acquainted with the Latin and Greek? I replied, "A little."
"Oho!" continued she, "and with philosophy and mathematics, I suppose?" I owned I knew something
of each. Then she repeated her stare and interrogation. I began to repent of my vanity, and
in order to repair the fault I committed, said, it was not to be wondered at if I had a tolerable
education, for learning was so cheap in my country, that every peasant was a scholar; but,
I hoped her Ladyship would think my understanding no exception to my character. "No, no, God
forbid." But during the rest of the time they sat at table, they behaved with remarkable reserve.

This alteration gave me great uneasiness; and I passed the night without sleep, in melancholy
reflections on the vanity of young men, which prompts them to commit so many foolish actions,
contrary to their own sober judgment. Next day, however, instead of profiting by this self-condemnation,
I yielded still more to the dictates of the principle I had endeavoured to chastise, and if
fortune had not befriended me more than prudence could expect, I should have been treated with
the contempt it deserved. After breakfast my lady, who was a true author, bade me follow her
into the study, where she expressed herself thus: "Since you are so learned, you cannot be
void of taste; therefore I am to desire your opinion of a small performance in poetry, which
I lately composed. You must know that I have planned a tragedy, the subject of which shall
be, the murder of a prince before the altar, where he is busy at his devotions. After the deed
is perpetrated, the regicide will harangue the people with the bloody dagger in his hand; and
I have already composed a speech, which, I think, will suit the character extremely. Here it
is." Then, taking up a scrap of paper, she read, with violent emphasis and gesture, as follows:--

    "Thus have I sent the simple King to hell,
    Without or coffin, shroud, or passing bell:
    To me what are divine and human laws?
    I court no sanction but my own applause!
    Rapes, robberies, treasons, yield my soul delight,
    And human carnage gratifies my sight:
    I drag the parent by the hoary hair,
    And toss the sprawling infant on the spear,
    While the fond mother's cries regale my ear.
    I fight, I vanquish, murder friends and foes;
    Nor dare the immortal gods my rage oppose."

Though I did great violence to my understanding in praising this unnatural rhapsody, I nevertheless
extolled it as a production that of itself deserved immortal fame; and besought her ladyship
to bless the world with the fruits of those uncommon talents Heaven had bestowed upon her.
She smiled with a look of self-complacency, and encouraged by the incense I had offered, communicated
all her poetical works which I applauded, one by one, with as little candour as I had shown
at first. Satiated with my flattery, which I hope my situation justified, she could not in
conscience refuse me an opportunity of shining in my turn: and, therefore, after a compliment
to my nice discernment and taste, observed, that doubtless I must have produced something in
that way myself, which she desired to see. This was temptation I could by no means resist.
I owned that while I was at college I wrote some detached pieces, at the desire of a friend
who was in love; and at her request repeated the following verses, which indeed my love for
Narcissa had inspired:--

               On Celia,

  Playing on the harpsichord and singing.

    When Sappho struck the quivering wire,
    The throbbing breast was all on fire:
    And when she raised the vocal lay,
    The captive soul was charm'd away.

    But had the nymph possessed with these
    Thy softer, chaster, power to please;
    Thy beauteous air of sprightly youth,
    Thy native smiles of artless truth;

    The worm of grief had never preyed
    On the forsaken love-sick maid:
    Nor had she mourn'd a hapless flame,
    Nor dash'd on rocks her tender frame.

My mistress paid me a cold compliment on the versification, which, she said, was elegant enough,
but, the subject beneath the pen of a true poet. I was extremely nettled at her indifference,
and looked at Narcissa, who by this time had joined us, for her approbation; but she declined
giving her opinion, protesting she was no judge of these matters; so that I was forced to retire
very much balked in my expectation, which was generally a little too sanguine. In the afternoon,
however, the waiting-maid assured me that Narcissa had expressed her approbation of my performance
with great warmth, and desired her to procure a copy of it as for herself, that she (Narcissa)
might have an opportunity to peruse it at pleasure. I was elated to an extravagant pitch at
this intelligence, and immediately transcribed a fair copy of my Ode, which was carried to
the dear charmer, together with another on the same subject, as follows:--

    Thy fatal shaft unerring move;
    I bow before thine altar, Love!
    I feel thou soft resistless flame
    Glide swift through all my vital frame!

    For while I gaze my bosom glows,
    My blood in tides impetuous flows;
    Hope, fear, and joy alternate roll,
    And floods of transports 'whelm my soul!

    My faltering tongue attempts in vain
    In soothing murmurs to complain;
    My tongue some secret magic ties,
    My murmurs sink in broken sighs.

    Condemn'd to nurse eternal care,
    And ever drop the silent tear,
    Unheard I mourn, unknown I sigh,
    Unfriended live, unpitied die!

Whether or not Narcissa discovered my passion, I could not learn from her behaviour, which,
though always benevolent to me was henceforth more reserved and less cheerful. While my thoughts
aspired to a sphere so far above me, I had unwittingly made a conquest of the cookwench and
dairymaid, who became so jealous of each other that, if their sentiments had been refined by
education, it is probable one or other of them would have had recourse to poison or steel to
be avenged of her rival; but, as their minds were happily adapted to their humble station,
their mutual enmity was confined to scolding and fistcuffs, in which exercise they were both
well skilled. My good fortune did not long remain a secret; for it was disclosed by the frequent
broils of these heroines, who kept no decorum in their encounters. The coachman and gardener,
who paid their devoirs to my admirers, each to his respective choice, alarmed at my success,
laid their heads together, in order to concert a plan of revenge; and the former, having been
educated at the academy at Tottenham Court, undertook to challenge me to single combat. He
accordingly, with many opprobrious invectives, bade me defiance, and offered to box me for
twenty guineas. I told him that, although I believed myself a match for him even at that work
I would not descend so far below the dignity of a gentleman as to fight like a porter; but
if he had anything to say to me, I was his man at blunderbuss, musket, pistol, sword, hatchet,
spit, cleaver, fork, or needle; nay, I swore, that should he give his tongue any more saucy
liberties at my expense, I would crop his ears without any ceremony. This rhodomontade, delivered
with a stern countenance and resolute tone, had the desired effect upon my antagonist, who,
with some confusion, sneaked off, and gave his friend an account of his reception.

The story, taking air among the servants, procured for me the title of Gentleman John, with
which I was sometimes honoured, even by my mistress and Narcissa, who had been informed of
the whole affair by the chambermaid. In the meantime, the rival queens expressed their passion
by all the ways in their power: the cook entertained me with choice bits, the dairymaid with
strokings: the first would often encourage me to declare myself, by complimenting me upon my
courage and learning, and observing, that if she had a husband like me, to maintain order and
keep accounts, she could make a great deal of money, by setting up an eating-house in London
for gentlemen's servants on board wages. The other courted my affection by showing her own
importance, and telling me that many a substantial farmer in the neighbourhood would be glad
to marry her, but she was resolved to please her eye, if she should plague her heart. Then
she would launch out into the praise of my proper person, and say, she was sure I would make
a good husband, for I was very good-natured. I began to be uneasy at the importunities of these
inamoratas, whom, at another time perhaps, I might have pleased without the disagreeable sauce
of matrimony, but, at present, my whole soul was engrossed by Narcissa; and I could not bear
the thoughts of doing anything derogatory to the passion I entertained for her.

CHAPTER XLI

Narcissa being in danger from the brutality of Sir Timothy, is rescued by me, who revenge myself
on my rival--I declare my passion, and retreat to the seaside--am surrounded by smugglers,
and carried to Boulogne--find my Uncle Lieutenant Bowling in great distress, and relieve him--our
conversation

At certain intervals my ambition would revive; I would despise myself for my tame resignation
to my sordid fate, and revolve a hundred schemes for assuming the character of a gentleman,
to which I thought myself entitled by birth and education. In these fruitless suggestions time
stole away unperceived, and I had already remained eight months in the station of a footman,
when an accident happened that put an end to my servitude, and, for the present, banished all
hopes of succeeding in my love.

Narcissa went one day to visit Miss Thicket, who lived with her brother within less than a
mile of our house, and was persuaded to walk home in the cool of the evening, accompanied by
Sir Timothy, who, having a good deal of the brute in him, was instigated to use some unbecoming
familiarities with her, encouraged by the solitariness of a field through which they passed.
The lovely creature was incensed at his rude behaviour for which she reproached him in such
a manner that he lost all regard to decency, and actually offered violence to this pattern
of innocence and beauty. But Heaven would not suffer so much goodness to be violated, and sent
me, who, passing by accident near the place, was alarmed with her cries, for her succour. What
were the emotions of my soul, when I beheld Narcissa almost sinking beneath the brutal force
of this satyr! I flew like lightning to her rescue, and he, perceiving me, quitted his prey,
and drew his hanger to chastise my presumption. My indignation was too high to admit one thought
of fear, so that, rushing upon him, I struck his weapon out of his hand, and used my cudgel
so successfully that he fell to the ground, and lay, to all appearance, without sense. Then
I turned to Narcissa, who had swooned, and sitting down by her, gently raised her head, and
supported it on my bosom, while, with my hand around her waist, I kept her in that position.
My soul was thrilled with tumultuous joy, at feeling the object of my dearest wishes within
my arms; and, while she lay insensible, I could not refrain from applying my cheeks to hers,
and ravishing a kiss. In a little time the blood began to revisit her face, she opened her
enchanting eyes, and, having recollected her late situation, said, with a look full of tender
acknowledgment, "Dear John, I am eternally obliged to you!" So saying she made an effort to
rise, in which I assisted her, and she proceeded to the house, leaning upon me all the way.
I was a thousand times tempted by this opportunity to declare my passion, but the dread of
disobliging her restrained my tongue. We had not moved a hundred paces from the scene of her
distress, when I perceived Sir Timothy rise and walk homeward--a circumstance which, though
it gave me some satisfaction, inasmuch as I thereby knew I had not killed him, filled me with
just apprehension of his resentment, which I found myself in no condition to withstand; especially
when I considered his intimacy with our squire, to whom I knew he could justify himself for
what he had done, by imputing it to his love, and desiring his brother Bruin to take the same
liberty with his sister, without any fear of offence.

When we arrived at the house, Narcissa assured me she would exert all her influence in protecting
me from the revenge of Thicket, and likewise engage her aunt in my favour. At the same time,
pulling out her purse, offered it as a small consideration for the service I had done her.
But I stood too much upon the punctilios of love to incur the least suspicion of being mercenary,
and refused the present, by saying I had merited nothing by barely doing my duty. She seemed
astonished at my disinterestedness, and blushed: I felt the same suffusion, and, with a downcast
eye and broken accent, told her I had one request to make, which, if her generosity would grant,
I should think myself fully recompensed, for an age of misery. She changed colour at this preamble,
and, with great confusion, replied, she hoped my good sense would hinder me from asking anything
she was bound in honour to refuse, and therefore bade me signify my desire. Upon which I kneeled,
and engaged to kiss her hand. She immediately, with an averted look, stretched it out: I imprinted
on it an ardent kiss, and, bathing it with my tears, cried, "Dear Madam, I am an unfortunate
gentleman, and love you to distraction, but would have died a thousand deaths rather than make
this declaration under such a servile appearance, were I not determined to yield to the rigour
of my fate, to fly from your bewitching presence, and bury my presumptuous passion in eternal
silence." With these words I rose, and went away before she could recover her spirits so far
as to make any reply.

My first care was to go and consult Mrs. Sagely, with whom I had entertained a friendly correspondence
ever since I left her house. When she understood my situation, the good woman, with real concern,
condoled with me on my unhappy fate, and approved of my resolution to leave the country, as
being perfectly well acquainted with the barbarous disposition of my rival, "who, by this time,"
said she, "has no doubt meditated a scheme of revenge. Indeed, I cannot see how you will be
able to elude his vengeance; being himself in the commission, he will immediately grant warrants
for apprehending you; and, as almost all the people in this country are dependent on him or
his friend, it will be impossible for you to find shelter among them. If you should be apprehended,
he will commit you to jail, where you may possibly in great misery languish till the next assizes,
and then be transported for assaulting a magistrate."

While she thus warned me of my danger, we heard a knocking at the door, which threw us both
into great consternation, as in all probability, it was occasioned by my pursuers; whereupon
this generous old lady, putting two guineas into my hand, with tears in her eyes, bade me,
for God's sake, get out at the back-door and consult my safety as Providence should direct
me. There was no time for deliberation. I followed her advice, and escaped by the benefit of
a dark night to the seaside, where, while I ruminated on my next excursion, I was all of a
sudden surrounded by armed men, who, having bound my hands and feet, bade me make no noise
on pain of being shot, and carried me on board of a vessel, which I soon perceived to be a
smuggling cutter. This discovery gave me some satisfaction at first, because I concluded myself
safe from the resentment of Sir Timothy; but, when I found myself in the hands of ruffians,
who threatened to execute me for a spy, I would have thought myself happily quit for a year's
imprisonment, or even transportation. It was in vain for me to protest my innocence: I could
not persuade them that I had taken a solitary walk to their haunt, at such an hour, merely
for my own amusement; and I did not think it my interest to disclose the true cause of my retreat,
because I was afraid they would have made their peace with justice by surrendering me to the
penalty of the law. What confirmed their suspicion was, the appearance of a custom-house yacht,
which gave them chase, and had well nigh made a prize of their vessel; when they were delivered
from their fears by a thick fog, which effectually screened them, and favoured their arrival
at Boulogne. But, before they got out of sight of their pursuer, they held a council of war
about me, and some of the most ferocious among them would have thrown me overboard as a traitor
who had betrayed them to their enemies; but others, more considerate, alleged, that if they
put me to death, and should afterwards be taken, they could expect no mercy from the legislature,
which would never pardon outlawry aggravated by murder. It was therefore determined by a plurality
of votes, that I should be set on shore in France, and left to find my way back to England,
as I should think proper, this being punishment sufficient for the bare suspicion of a crime
in itself not capital.

Although this favourable determination gave me great pleasure, the apprehension of being robbed
would not suffer me to be perfectly at ease. To prevent this calamity, as soon as I was untied,
in consequence of the aforesaid decision, I tore a small hole in one of my stockings, into
which I dropped six guineas, reserving half a piece and some silver in my pocket, that, finding
something, they might not be tempted to make any further inquiry. This was a very necessary
precaution, for, when we came within sight of the French shore, one of the smugglers told me,
I must pay for my passage. To this declaration I replied, that my passage was none of my own
seeking; therefore they could not expect a reward from me for transporting me into a strange
country by force. "D-me!" said the outlaw, "none of your palaver; but let me see what money
you have got." So saying, he thrust his hand into my pocket without any ceremony, and emptied
it of the contents; then, casting an eye at my hat and wig, which captivated his fancy, he
took them off, clapping his own on my head, declared, that a fair exchange was no robbery.
I was fain to put up with this bargain, which was by no means favourable to me; and a little
while after we went all on shore together.

I resolved to take my leave of those desperadoes without much ceremony, when one of them cautioned
me against appearing to their prejudice if ever I returned to England, unless I had a mind
to be murdered; for which service, he assured me, the gang never wanted agents. I promised
to observe his advice, and departed for the Upper Town, where I inquired for a cabaret, or
public-house, into which I went, with an intention of taking some refreshment. In the kitchen,
five Dutch sailors sat at breakfast with a large loaf, a firkin of butter, and a keg of brandy,
the bung of which they often applied to their mouths with great perseverance and satisfaction.
At some distance from them I perceived another person in the same garb, sitting in a pensive
solitary manner, entertaining himself with a whiff of tobacco, from the stump of a pipe as
black as jet. The appearance of distress never failed to attract my regard and compassion.
I approached this forlorn tar with a view to offer him my assistance, and, notwithstanding
the alteration of dress and disguise of a long beard, I discovered in him my long lost and
lamented uncle and benefactor, Lieutenant Bowling! Good Heaven! what were the agitations of
my soul, between the joy of finding again such a valuable friend, and the sorrow of seeing
him in such a low condition! The tears gushed down my cheeks; I stood motionless and silent
for some time. At length, recovering the use of speech, I exclaimed, "Gracious God! Mr. Bowling!"
My uncle no sooner heard his name mentioned, than he started up, crying, with some surprise,
"Holla!" and, after having looked at me steadfastly, without being able to recollect me, said,
"Did you call me, brother," I told him I had something extraordinary to communicate, and desired
him to give me the hearing for a few minutes in another room; but he would by no means consent
to this proposal, saying, "Avast there, friend: none of your tricks upon travellers;--if you
have anything to say to me, do it above board;--you need not be afraid of being overheard;--here
are none who understand our lingo." Though I was loth to discover myself before company, I
could no longer refrain from telling him I was his own nephew, Roderick Random. On this information,
he considered me with great earnestness and astonishment, and, recalling my features, which,
though enlarged, were not entirely altered since he had seen me, came up, and shook me by the
hand very cordially, protesting he was glad to see me well. After some pause, he went on thus;
"And yet, my lad, I am sorry to see you under such colours; the more so, as it is not in my
power, at present, to change them for the better, times being very hard with me," With these
words I could perceive a tear trickle down his furrowed cheek, which affected me so munch that
I wept bitterly.

Imagining my sorrow was the effect of my own misfortunes, he comforted me with observing, that
life was a voyage in which we must expect to meet with all weathers; sometimes was calm, sometimes
rough; that a fair gale often succeeded a storm; that the wind did not always sit one way,
and that despair signified nothing; that resolution and skill were better than a stout vessel:
for why? because they require no carpenter, and grow stronger the more labour they undergo.
I dried up my tears, which I assured him were not shed for my own distress, but for his, and
begged leave to accompany him into another room, where we could converse more at our ease.
There I recounted to him the ungenerous usage I had met with from Potion; at which relation
he started up, stalked across the room three or four times in a great hurry, and, grasping
his cudgel, cried, "I would I were alongside of him--that's all--I would I were alongside of
him!" I then gave him a detail of my adventures and sufferings, which affected him more than
I could have imagined; and concluded with telling him that Captain Oakun was still alive, and
that he might return to England when he would to solicit his affairs, without danger or molestation.
He was wonderfully pleased with this piece of information, of which, however, he said he could
not at present avail himself, for want of money to pay for his passage to London. This objection
I soon removed, by putting five guineas into his hand, and telling him I thought myself extremely
happy in having an opportunity of manifesting my gratitude to him in his necessity. But it
was with the utmost difficulty I could prevail upon him to accept of two, which he affirmed
were more than sufficient to defray the necessary expense.

After this friendly contest was over, he proposed we should have a mess of something; "For,"
said he, "it has been banyan day with me a great while. You must know I was shipwrecked, five
days ago, near a place called Lisieux, in company with those Dutchmen who are now drinking
below; and having but little money when I came ashore, it was soon spent, because I let them
have share and share while it lasted. Howsomever, I should have remembered the old saying,
every hog his own apple; for when they found my hold unstowed, they went all hands to shooling
and begging; and, because I would not take a spell at the same duty, refused to give me the
least assistance; so that I have not broke bread these two days." I was shocked at the extremity
of his distress, and ordered some bread, cheese, and wine, to be brought immediately, to allay
his hunger, until a fricassee of chickens could be prepared. When he had recruited his spirits
with this homely fare, I desired to know the particulars of his peregrination since the accident
at Cape Tiberoon, which were briefly these: The money he had about him being all spent at Port
Louis, the civility and hospitality of the French cooled to such a degree, that he was obliged
to list on board one of their king's ships as a common foremast man, to prevent himself from
starving on shore. In this situation he continued two years, during which time he had acquired
some knowledge of their language, and the reputation of a good seaman; the ship he belonged
to was ordered home to France, where she was laid up as unfit for service, and he was received
on board one of Monsieur D'Antin's squadron, in quality of quartermaster; which office he performed
in a voyage to the West Indies, where he engaged with our ship, as before related; but his
conscience upbraiding him for serving the one enemies of his country, he quitted the ship at
the same place where he first listed, and got to Curacoa in a Dutch vessel; there he bargained
with a skipper, bound to Europe, to work for his passage to Holland, from whence he was in
hopes of hearing from his friends in England; but was cast away, as he mentioned before, on
the French coast, and must have been reduced to the necessity of travelling on foot to Holland,
and begging for his subsistence on the road, or of entering on board of another French man-of-war,
at the hazard of being treated as a deserter, if Providence had not sent me to his succour.
"And now, my lad," continued he, "I think I shall steer my course directly to London, where
I do not doubt of being replaced, and of having the R taken off me by the Lords of the Admiralty,
to whom I intend to write a petition, setting forth my case; if I succeed, I shall have wherewithal
to give you some assistance, because, when I left the ship, I had two years' pay due to me,
therefore I desire to know whither you are bound: and besides, perhaps, I may have interest
enough to procure a warrant appointing you surgeon's mate of the ship to which I shall belong--for
the beadle of the Admiralty is my good friend: and he and one of the under clerks are sworn
brothers, and that under clerk has a good deal to say with one of the upper clerks, who is
very well known to the under secretary, who, upon his recommendation, I hope, will recommend
my affair to the first secretary; and he again will speak to one of the lords in my behalf;
so that you see I do not want friends to assist me on occasion. As for the fellow Craampley,
thof I know him not, I am sure he is neither seaman nor officer, by what you have told me,
or else he could never be so much mistaken in his reckoning, as to run the ship on shore on
the coast of Sussex before he believed himself in soundings; neither, when that accident happened,
would he have left the ship until she had been stove to pieces, especially when the tide was
making; wherefore, by this time, I do suppose, he has been tried by a court-martial, and executed
for his cowardice and misconduct."

I could not help smiling at the description of my uncle's ladder, by which he proposed to climb
to the attention of the board of admiralty; and, though I knew the world too well to confide
in such dependence myself, I would not discourage him with doubts, but asked if he had no friend
in London, who would advance a small sum of money to enable him to appear as he ought, and
make a small present to the under secretary, who might possibly dispatch his business the sooner
on that account. He scratched his head, and after some recollection, replied, "Why, yes, I
believe Daniel Whipcord, the ship-chandler in Wapping, would not refuse me such a small matter.
I know I can have what credit I want for lodging, liquor, and clothes; but as to money, I won't
be positive. Had honest Block been living, I should not have been at loss." I was heartily
sorry to find a worthy man so destitute of friends, when he had such need of them, and looked
upon my own situation as less miserable than his, because I was better acquainted with the
selfishness and roguery of mankind, consequently less liable to disappointment and imposition.

CHAPTER XLII

He takes his passage in a cutter for Deal--we are accosted by a Priest, who proves to be a
Scotchman--his profession on friendship--he is affronted by the Lieutenant, who afterwards
appeases him by submission--my uncle embarks--I am introduced by a Priest to a Capuchin, in
whose company I set out for Paris--the character of my fellow traveller--on adventure on the
road--I am shocked at his behaviour

When our repast was ended, we walked down to the harbour, where we found a cutter that was
to sail for Deal in the evening, and Mr. Bowling agreed for his passage. In the meantime, we
sauntered about the town to satisfy our curiosity, our conversation turning on the subject
of my designs, which were not as yet fixed: neither can it be supposed that my mind was at
case, when I found myself reduced almost to extreme poverty, in the midst of foreigners, among
whom I had not one acquaintance to advise or befriend me. My uncle was sensible of my forlorn
condition, and pressed me to accompany him to England, where he did not doubt of finding some
sort of provision for me; but besides the other reasons I had for avoiding that kingdom, I
looked upon it, at this time, as the worst country in the universe for a poor honest man to
live in; and therefore determined to remain in France, at all events.

I was confirmed in this resolution by a reverend priest, who, passing by at this time, and
overhearing us speak English, accosted us in the same language, telling us he was our countryman,
and wishing it might be in his power to do us any service. We thanked this grave person for
his courteous offer, and invited him to drink a glass with us, which he did not think proper
to refuse, and we went altogether into a tavern of his recommending. After having drunk to
our healths in a bumper of good Burgundy, he began to inquire into our situation, particularly
the place of our nativity, which we no sooner named than he started up, and, wringing our hands
with great fervour, shed a flood of tears, crying, "I come from the same part of the country!
perhaps you are my own relations." I was on my guard against his caresses, which I suspected
very much, when I remembered the adventure of the money-dropper; but, without any appearance
of diffidence, observed, that, as he was born in that part of the country, he must certainly
know our families, which (howsoever mean our present appearance might be) were none of the
most obscure or inconsiderable. Then I discovered our names, to which I found he was no stranger;
he had known my grandfather personally; and, notwithstanding an absence of fifty years from
Scotland, recounted so many particulars of the families in the neighbourhood, that my scruples
were entirely removed, and I thought myself happy in his acquaintance. In the course of our
conversation, I disclosed my condition without reserve, and displayed my talents to such advantage,
that the old father looked upon me with admiration, and assured me, that, if I stayed in France,
and listened to reason, I could not fail of making my fortune, to which he would contribute
all in his power.

My uncle began to be jealous of the Priest's insinuation, and very abruptly declared, that
if ever I should renounce my religion, he would break off all connection and correspondence
with me; for it was his opinion, that no honest man would swerve from his principles in which
he was bred, whether Turkish, Protestant, or Roman. The father, affronted at this declaration,
with great vehemence began a long discourse, setting forth the danger of obstinacy, and shutting
one's eyes against the light. He said, that ignorance would be no plea towards justification,
when we had opportunities of being better informed; and, that, if the minds of people had not
been open to conviction, the Christian religion could not have been propagated in the world,
and we should now be in a state of Pagan darkness and barbarity: he endeavoured to prove, by
some texts of Scripture and many quotations from the Fathers, that the Pope was the successor
of St. Peter, and vicar of Jesus Christ; that the church of Rome was the true, holy, catholic
church; and that the Protestant faith was an impious heresy and damnable schism, by which many
millions of souls would suffer everlasting perdition. When he had finished his sermon, which
I thought he pronounced with more zeal than discretion, he addressed himself to my uncle, desired
to know his objections to what had been said. The lieutenant, whose attention had been wholly
engrossed by his own affairs, took the pipe out of his mouth, and replied, "As for me, friend,
d'ye see, I have no objection to what you say; it may be either truth or false, for what I
know; I meddle with nobody's affairs but my own; the gunner to his linstock, and the steersman
to the helm, as the saying is. I trust to no creed but the compass, and do unto every man as
I would be done by; so that I defy the Pope, the Devil, and the Pretender; and hope to be saved
as well as another." This association of persons gave great offence to the friar, who protested,
in a mighty passion, that if Mr. Bowling had not been his countryman, he would have caused
him to be imprisoned for his insolence; I ventured to disapprove of my uncle's rashness, and
appeased the old gentleman, by assuring him there was no offence intended by my kinsman, who,
by this time sensible of his error, shook the injured party by the hand, and asked pardon for
the freedom he had taken. Matters being amicably compromised, he invited us to come and see
him in the afternoon at the convent to which he belonged, and took his leave for the present;
when my uncle recommended it strongly to me to persevere in the religion of my forefathers,
whatever advantages might propose to myself by a change, which could not fail of disgracing
myself, and dishonouring my family. I assured him no consideration would induce me to forfeit
his friendship and good opinion on that score; at which assurance he discovered great satisfaction,
and put me in mind of dinner, which we immediately bespoke, and when it was ready, ate together.

I imagined my acquaintance with the Scottish priest if properly managed, might turn out to
my advantage, and therefore resolved to cultivate it as much as I could. With this view we
visited him at his convent, according to his invitation, where he treated us with wine and
sweetmeats, and showed us everything that was remarkable in the monastery. Having been thus
entertained, we took our leave, though not before I had promised to see him next day, and the
time fixed for my uncle's embarking being come, I accompanied him to the harbour, and saw him
on board. We parted not without tears, after we had embraced and wished one another all manner
of prosperity: and he entreated me to write to him often, directing to Lieutenant Bowling,
at the sign of the Union Flag, near the Hermitage, London.

I returned to the house in which we had met, where I passed the night in a very solitary manner,
reflecting on the severity of my fate, and endeavouring to project some likely scheme of life
for the future; but my invention failed me; I saw nothing but insurmountable difficulties in
my way, and was ready to despair at the miserable prospect! That I might not, however, neglect
any probable reason, I got up in the morning, and went directly to the father, whose advice
and assistance I implored. He received me very kindly, and gave me to understand, that there
was one way of life in which a person of my talents could not fail of making a great figure.
I guessed his meaning, and told him, once for all, I was fully determined against any alteration
in point of religion; therefore if his proposal regarded the church, he might save himself
the trouble of explaining it. He shook his head and sighed, saying, "Ah! son, son, what a glorious
prospect is here spoiled by your stubborn prejudice! Suffer yourself to be persuaded by reason,
and consult your temporal welfare, as well as the concerns of your eternal soul. I can, by
my interest procure your admission as a noviciate to this convent, where I will superintend
and direct you with a truly paternal affection." Then he launched out into the praises of a
monastic life, which no noise disturbs, no cares molest, and no danger invades--where the heart
is weaned from carnal attachments, the grosser appetite subdued and chastised, and the soul
wafted to divine regions of philosophy and truth, on the wing of studious contemplation. But
his eloquence was lost upon me, whom two considerations enabled to withstand his temptation;
namely, my promise to my uncle, and my aversion to an ecclesiastical life; for as to the difference
of religion, I looked upon it as a thing of too small moment to come in competition with a
man's fortune. Finding me immovable on this head, he told me, he was more sorry than offended
at my noncompliance, and still ready to employ his good offices in my behalf. "The same erroneous
maxims," said he, "that obstruct your promotion in the church, will infallibly prevent your
advancement in the army; but, if you can brook the condition of a servant, I am acquainted
with some people of rank at Versailles, to whom I can give you letters of recommendation, that
you may be entertained by some one of them in quality of maitre d'hotel; and I do not doubt
that your qualifications will soon entitle you to a better provision." I embraced his offer
with great eagerness, and he appointed me to come back in the afternoon, when he would not
only give me letters, but likewise introduce me to a capuchin of his acquaintance, who intended
to set out for Paris next morning in whose company I might travel, without being at the expense
of one livre during the whole journey. This piece of good news gave me infinite pleasure; I
acknowledged my obligation to the benevolent father in the most grateful expressions; and he
performed his promise to a tittle, in delivering the letters, and making me acquainted with
the capuchin, with whom I departed next morning by break of day.

It was not long before I discovered my fellow traveller to be a merry facetious fellow, who,
notwithstanding his profession and appearance of mortification, loved good eating and drinking
better than his rosary, and paid more adoration to a pretty girl than to the Virgin Mary, or
St. Genevieve. He was a thick brawny young man, with red eyebrows, a hook nose, a face covered
with freckles; and his name was Frere Balthazar. His order did not permit him to wear linen,
so that, having little occasion to undress himself, he was none of the cleanliest animals in
the world; and his constitution was naturally so strongly scented that I always thought it
convenient to keep to the windward of him in our march. As he was perfectly well known on the
road, we fared sumptuously without any cost, and the fatigue of our journey was much alleviated
by the good humour of my companion, who sang an infinite number of catches on the subjects
of love and wine. We took up our lodging the first night at a peasant's house not far from
Abbeville, where we were entertained with an excellent ragout, cooked by our landlord's daughters,
one of whom was very handsome. After having eaten heartily and drank a sufficient quantity
of small wine, we were conducted to a barn, where we found a couple of carpets spread upon
clean straw for our reception. We had not lain in this situation above half-an-hour, when we
heard somebody knock softly at the door, upon which Balthazar got up, and let in our host's
two daughters, who wanted to have some private conversation with him in the dark. When they
had whispered together some time, the capuchin came to me, and asked if I was insensible to
love, and so hard-hearted as to refuse a share of my bed to a pretty maid who had a tendre
for me? I must own to my shame, that I suffered myself to be overcome by my passion, and with
great eagerness seized the occasion, when I understood that the amiable Nanette was to be my
bedfellow. In vain did my reason suggest the respect that I owed to my dear mistress Narcissa;
the idea of that lovely charmer rather increased than allayed the ferment of my spirits; and
the young paysanne had no reason to complain of my remembrance. Early in the morning, the kind
creatures left us to our repose, which lasted till eight o'clock when we got up, and were treated
at breakfast with chocolate and l'eau-de-vie by our paramours, of whom we took a tender leave,
after my companion had confessed and given them absolution.

While we proceeded on our journey, the conversation turned upon the night's adventure, being
introduced by the capuchin, who asked me how I liked my lodging; I declared my satisfaction,
and talked in rapture of the agreeable Nanette, at which he shook his head, and smiling said,
she was a morceau pour la bonne bouche. "I never valued myself," continued he, "upon anything
so much as the conquest of Nanette; and, vanity apart, I have been pretty fortunate in my amours."
This information shocked me not a little, as I was well convinced of his intimacy with her
sister; and though I did not care to tax him with downright incest, I professed my astonishment
at his last night's choice, when, I supposed, the other was at his devotion. To this hint he
answered that, besides his natural complaisance to the sex, he had another reason to distribute
his favours equally between them, namely, to preserve peace in the family, which could not
otherwise be maintained; that, moreover, Nanette had conceived an affection for me, and he
loved her too well to balk her inclination; more especially, when he had an opportunity of
obliging his friend at the same time. I thanked him for this instance of his friendship, though
I was extremely disgusted at his want of delicacy, and cursed the occasion that threw me in
his way. Libertine as I was, I could not bear to see a man behave so wide of the character
he assumed. I looked upon him as a person of very little worth or honesty, and should even
have kept a wary eye upon my pocket, if I had thought he could have had any temptation to steal.
But I could not conceive the use of money to a capuchin, who is obliged, by the rules of his
order, to appear like a beggar, and enjoy all other necessaries of life gratis; besides, my
fellow traveller seemed to be of a complexion too careless and sanguine to give me any apprehension
on that score; so that I proceeded with great confidence, in expectation of being soon at my
journey's end.

CHAPTER XLIII

We lodge at a House near Amiens, where I am robbed by the Capuchin, who escapes while I am
asleep--I go to Noyons in search of him, but without Success--make my Condition known to several
People, but find no Relief--grow desperate--find a Company of Soldiers--Enlist in the Regiment
of Picardy--we are ordered into Germany--I find the Fatigues of the March almost intolerable--Quarrel
with my Comrade in a dispute about Politics--he challenges me to the Field--wounds and disarms me

The third night of our pilgrimage we passed at a house near Amiens, where being unknown, we
supped upon indifferent fare and sour wine, and were fain to be in a garret upon an old mattress,
which, I believe had been in the possession of ten thousand myriads of fleas time out of mind.
We did not invade their territory with impunity; in less than a minute we were attacked by
stings innumerable, in spite of which, however, I fell fast asleep, being excessively fatigued
with our day's march, and did not wake till nine next morning, when, seeing myself alone, I
started up in a terrible fright, and, examining my pockets, found my presaging fear too true!
My companion had made free with my cash, and left me to seek my way to Paris by myself! I ran
down stairs immediately; and, with a look full of grief and amazement, inquired for the mendicant,
who, they gave me to understand, had set out four hours before, after having told them I was
a little indisposed, and desired I might not be disturbed, but be informed when I should wake,
that he had taken the road to Noyons, where he would wait for my coming, at the Coq d'Or. I
spoke not a word, but with a heavy heart directed my course to that place, at which I arrived
in the afternoon, fainting with weariness and hunger; but learned to my utter confusion, that
no such person had been there! It was happy for me that I had a good deal of resentment in
my constitution, which animated me on such occasions against the villainy of mankind, and enabled
me to bear misfortunes, otherwise intolerable. Boiling with indignation, I discovered to the
host my deplorable condition, and inveighed with great bitterness against the treachery of
Balthazar; at which he shrugged up his shoulders, and with a peculiar grimace on his countenance,
said, he was sorry for my misfortune, but there was no remedy like patience. At that instant
some guests arrived, to whom he hastened to offer his service, leaving me mortified at his
indifference, and fully persuaded that an innkeeper is the same sordid animal all the world over.

While I stood in the porch forlorn and undetermined, venting ejaculations of curses against
the thief who had robbed me, and the old priest who recommended him to my friendship, a young
gentleman richly dressed, attended by a valet de chambre and two servants in livery, arrived
at the inn. I thought I perceived a great deal of sweetness and good-nature in his countenance;
therefore he had no sooner alighted than I accosted him, and, in a few words, explained my
situation: he listened with great politeness, and, when I made an end of my story, said, "Well,
monsieur, what would you have me to do?" I was effectually abashed at this interrogation, which,
I believe, no man of common sense or generosity could make, and made no other compliment than
a low bow: he returned the compliment still lower, and tripped into an apartment, while the
landlord let me know that my standing there to interrupt company gave offence, and might do
him infinite prejudice. He had no occasion to repeat his insinuation; I moved from the place
immediately, and was so much transported with grief, anger, and disdain, that a torrent of
blood gushed from my nostrils. In this ecstacy, I quitted Noyons, and betook myself to the
fields, where I wandered about like one distracted, till my spirits were quite exhausted, and
I was obliged to throw myself down at the root of a tree, to rest my wearied limbs. Here my
rage forsook me: I began to feel the importunate cravings of nature, and relapsed into silent
sorrow and melancholy reflection. I revolved all the crimes I had been guilty of and found
them too few and venial, that I could not comprehend the justice of that Providence, which,
after having exposed me to so much wretchedness and danger, left me a prey to famine at last
in a foreign country, where I had not one friend or acquaintance to close my eyes, and do the
last offices of humanity to my miserable carcass. A thousand times I wished myself a bear,
that I might retreat to woods and deserts, far from the inhospitable haunts of man, where I
could live by my own talents, independent of treacherous friends and supercilious scorn.

As I lay in this manner, groaning over my hapless fate, I heard the sound of a violin, and
raising my head, perceived a company of men and women dancing on the grass at some distance
from me. I looked upon this to be a favourable season for distress to attract compassion, when
every selfish thought is banished, and the heart dilated with mirth and social joy; wherefore
I got up, and approached those happy people, whom I soon discovered to be a party of soldiers,
with their wives and children, unbending and diverting themselves at this rate, after the fatigue
of a march. I had never before seen such a parcel of scarecrows together, neither could I reconcile
their meagre and gaunt looks, their squalid and ragged attire, and every other external symptom
of extreme woe, with this appearance of festivity. I saluted them, however, and was received
with great politeness; after which they formed a ring, and danced around me. This jollity had
a wonderful effect upon my spirits. I was infected with their gaiety, and in spite of my dismal
situation, forgot my cares, and joined in their extravagance. When we had recreated ourselves
a good while at this diversion, the ladies spread their manteaus on the ground, upon which
they emptied their knapsacks of some onions, coarse bread, and a few flasks of poor wine: being
invited to a share of the banquet, I sat down with the rest, and, in the whole course of my
life, never made a more comfortable meal. When our repast was ended, we got up again to dance,
and, now that I found myself refreshed I behaved to the admiration of everybody; I was loaded
with a thousand compliments and professions of friendship: the men commended my person and
agility, and the women were loud in the praise of my bonne grace; the sergeant in particular
expressed so much regard for me, and described the pleasures of a soldier's life to me with
so much art, that I began to listen to his proposal of enlisting me in the service; and the
more I considered my own condition, the more I was convinced of the necessity I was under to
come to a speedy determination.

Having, therefore, maturely weighed the circumstances pro and con I signified my consent, and
was admitted into the regiment of Picardy, said to be the oldest corps in Europe. The company
to which this commander belonged was quartered at a village not far off, whither we marched
next day, and I was presented to my captain, who seemed very well pleased with my appearance,
gave me a crown to drink, and ordered me to be accommodated with clothes, arms, and accoutrements.
Then I sold my livery suit, purchased linen, and, as I was at great pains to learn the exercise,
in a very short time became a complete soldier.

It was not long before we received orders to join several more regiments, and march with all
expedition into Germany, in order to reinforce Mareschal Duc de Noailles, who was then encamped
with his army on the side of the river Mayne, to watch the motions of the English, Hanoverians,
Austrians, and Hessians, under the command of the Earl of Stair. We began our march accordingly,
and then I became acquainted with that part of a soldier's life to which I had been hitherto
a stranger. It is impossible to describe the hunger and thirst I sustained, and the fatigue
I underwent in a march of so many hundred miles; during which, I was so much chafed with the
heat and motion of my limbs, that in a very short time the inside of my thighs and legs were
deprived of skin, and I proceeded in the utmost torture. This misfortune I owed to the plumpness
of my constitution, which I cursed, and envied the withered condition of my comrades, whose
bodies could not spare juice enough to supply a common issue, and were indeed proof against
all manner of friction. The continual pain I felt made me fretful, and my peevishness was increased
by the mortification of my pride in seeing those miserable wretches, whom a hard gale of wind
would have scattered through the air like chaff, bear those toils with alacrity under which
I was ready to sink.

One day, while we enjoyed a halt, and the soldiers with their wives had gone out to dance,
according to custom, my comrade stayed at home with me on pretence of friendship, and insulted
me with his pity and consolation! He told me that, though I was young and tender at present,
I should soon be seasoned to the service; and he did not doubt but I should have the honour
to contribute in some measure to the glory of the king. "Have courage, therefore, my child,"
said he, "and pray to the good God, that you may be as happy as I am, who have had the honour
of serving Louis the Great, and of receiving many wounds, in helping to establish his glory."
When I looked upon the contemptible object that pronounced these words, I was amazed at the
infatuation that possessed him; and could not help expressing my astonishment at the absurdity
of a rational who thinks himself highly honoured, in being permitted to encounter abject poverty,
oppression, famine, disease, mutilation, and evident death merely to gratify the vicious ambition
of a prince, by whom his sufferings were disregarded, and his name utterly unknown. I observed
that, if his situation were the consequence of compulsion, I would praise his patience and
fortitude in bearing his lot: if he had taken up arms in defence of his injured country, he
was to be applauded for his patriotism: or if he had fled to this way of life as a refuge from
a greater evil, he was justifiable in his own conscience (though I could have no notion of
misery more extreme than he suffered); but to put his condition on the footing of conducing
to the glory of his prince, was no more than professing himself a desperate slave, who voluntarily
underwent the utmost wretchedness and peril, and committed the most flagrant crimes, to soothe
the barbarous pride of a fellow-creature, his superior in nothing but the power he derived
from the submission of such wretches as him. The soldier was very much affronted at the liberty
I took with his king, which, he said, nothing but my ignorance could excuse: he affirmed that
the characters of princes were sacred, and ought not to be profaned by the censure of their
subjects, who were bound by their allegiance to obey their commands, of what nature soever,
without scruple or repining; and advised me to correct the rebellious principles I had imbibed
among the English, who, for their insolence to their kings, were notorious all over the world,
even to a proverb.

In vindication of my countrymen, I repeated all the arguments commonly used to prove that every
man has a natural right to liberty; that allegiance and protection are reciprocal; that, when
the mutual tie is broken by the tyranny of the king, he is accountable to the people for his
breach of contract, and subject to the penalties of the law; and that those insurrections of
the English, which are branded with the name of rebellion by the slaves of arbitrary power,
were no other than glorious efforts to rescue that independence which was their birthright,
from the ravenous claws of usurping ambition. The Frenchman, provoked at the little deference
I paid to the kingly name, lost all patience, and reproached me in such a manner that my temper
forsook me, I clenched my fist, with an intention to give him a hearty box on the ear. Perceiving
my design, he started back and demanded a parley; upon which I checked my indignation, and
he gave me to understand that a Frenchman never forgave a blow; therefore, if I were not weary
of my life, I would do well to spare him that mortification, and do him the honour of measuring
his sword with mine, like a gentleman. I took his advice and followed him to a field hard by,
where indeed I was ashamed at the pitiful figure of my antagonist, who was a poor little shivering
creature, decrepit with age, and blind of one eye. But I soon found the folly of judging from
appearances; being at the second pass wounded in the sword hand, and immediately disarmed with
such a jerk, that I thought the joint was dislocated. I was no less confounded than enraged
at this event, especially as my adversary did not bear his success with all the moderation
that might have been expected; for he insisted upon my asking pardon for affronting his king
and him. This proposal I would by no means comply with, but told him, it was a mean condescension,
which no gentleman in his circumstances ought to propose, nor any in my situation ought to
perform; and that, if he persisted in his ungenerous demand, I would in my turn claim satisfaction
with my musket, when we should be more upon a par than with the sword, of which he seemed so
much master.

CHAPTER XLIV

In order to be revenged, I learn the Science of Defence--we join Mareschal Duc de Noailles,
are engaged with the Allies of Dettingen, and put to flight--the behaviour of the French soldiers
on that occasion--I industriously seek another combat with the old Gascon, and vanquish him
in my turn--our regiment is put into Winter Quarters at Rheims, where I find my friend Strap--our
Recognition--he supplies me with Money, and procures my Discharge--we take a trip to Paris;
from whence, by the way of Flanders, we set out for London; where we safely arrive

He was disconcerted at this declaration, to which he made no reply, but repaired to the dancers,
among whom he recounted his victory with many exaggerations and gasconades; while I, taking
up my sword, went to my quarters, and examined my wound, which I found was of no consequence.
The same day an Irish drummer, having heard of my misfortune, visited me, and after having
condoled me on the chance of war, gave me to understand, that he was master of the sword, and
would in a very short time instruct me so thoroughly in that noble science, that I should be
able to chastise the old Gascon for his insolent boasting at my expense. This friendly office
he proffered on pretence of the regard he had for his countrymen; but I afterwards learned
the true motive was no other than a jealousy he entertained of a correspondence between the
Frenchman and his wife, which he did not think proper to resent in person. Be this as it will,
I accepted his offer and practised his lessons with such application, that I soon believed
myself a match for my conqueror. In the meantime we continued our march, and arrived at the
Camp of Mareschal Noailles the night before the battle at Dettingen: notwithstanding the fatigue
we had undergone, our regiment was one of those that were ordered next day to cross the river,
under the command of the Duc de Grammont, to take possession of a narrow defile, through which
the allies must of necessity have passed at a great disadvantage, or remain where they were,
and perish for want of provision, if they would not condescend to surrender at discretion.
How they suffered themselves to be pent up in this manner it is not my province to relate;
I shall only observe that, when we had taken possession of our ground, I heard an old officer
in conversation with another express a surprise at the conduct of Lord Stair, who had the reputation
of a good general. But it seems, at this time, that nobleman was overruled, and only acted
in an inferior character; so that no part of the blame could be imputed to him, who declared
his disapprobation of the step, in consequence of which the whole army was in the utmost danger;
but Providence or destiny acted miracles in their behalf, by disposing the Duc de Grammont
to quit his advantageous post, pass the defile, and attack the English, who were drawn up in
order of battle on the plain, and who handled us so roughly that, after having lost a great
number of men, we turned our backs without ceremony, and fled with such precipitation that
many hundreds perished in the river through pure fear and confusion: for the enemy were so
generous that they did not pursue us one inch of ground; and, if our consternation would have
permitted, we might have retreated with great order and deliberation. But, notwithstanding
the royal clemency of the king of Great Britain, who headed the allies in person, and, no doubt,
put a stop to the carnage, our loss amounted to five thousand men, among whom were many officers
of distinction. Our miscarriage opened a passage for the foe to Haynau, whither they immediately
marched, leaving their sick and wounded to the care of the French, who next day took possession
of the field of battle, buried the dead, and treated the living with humanity.

This circumstance was a great consolation to us, who thence took occasion to claim the victory;
and the genius of the French nation never appeared more conspicuous than now, in the rhodomontades
they uttered on the subject of their generosity and courage. Every man (by his own account)
performed feats that eclipsed all the heroes of antiquity. One compared himself to a lion retiring
at leisure from his cowardly pursuers, who keep at a wary distance, and gall him with their
darts. Another likened himself to a bear that retreats with his face to the enemy, who dare
not assail him; and the third assumed the character of a desperate stag, that turns upon the
hounds and keeps them at bay. There was not a private soldier engaged who had not by the prowess
of his single arm demolished a whole platoon, or put a squadron of horse to flight; and, among
others, the meagre Gascon extolled his exploits above those of Hercules or Charlemagne. As
I still retained my resentment for the disgrace I suffered in my last rencontre with him, and,
now that I the thought myself qualified, longed for an opportunity to retrieve my honour, I
magnified the valour of the English with all the hyperboles I could imagine, and described
the pusillanimity of the French in the same style, comparing them to hares flying before greyhounds,
or mice pursued by cats; and passed an ironical compliment on the speed he exerted in his flight,
which, considering his age and infirmities I said was surprising. He was stung to the quick
by this sarcasm, and, with an air of threatening disdain, bade me know myself better, and remember
the correction I had already received from him for my insolence; for he might not always be
in the humour of sparing a wretch who abused his goodness. To this inuendo I made no reply
but by a kick on the breech, which overturned him in an instant. He started up with wonderful
agility, and, drawing his sword, attacked me with great fury. Several people interposed, but,
when he informed them of its being an affair of honour, they retired, and left us to decide
the battle by ourselves. I sustained his onset with little damage, having only received a small
scratch on my right shoulder, and, seeing his breath and vigour almost exhausted, assaulted
him in my turn, closed with him, and wrested his sword out of his hand in the struggle. Having
thus acquired the victory, I desired him to beg his life; to which demand he made no answer,
but shrugged up his shoulders to his ears, expanded his hands, elevated the skin on his forehead
and eyebrows, and depressed the corners of his mouth in such a manner, that I could scarce
refrain from laughing aloud at his grotesque appearance. That I might, however, mortify his
vanity, which triumphed without bounds over my misfortune, I thrust his sword up to the hilt
in something (it was not a tansy), that lay smoking on the plain, and joined the rest of the
soldiers with an air of tranquillity and indifference.

There was nothing more of moment attempted by either of the armies during the remaining part
of the campaign, which being ended, the English marched back to the Netherlands; part of our
army was detached to French Flanders, and our regiment ordered into winter quarters in Champagne.
It was the fate of the grenadier company, to which I now belonged, to lie at Rheims, where
I found myself in the utmost want of everything, my pay, which amounted to five sols a day,
far from supplying me with necessaries, being scarce sufficient to procure a wretched subsistence
to keep soul and body together; so that I was, by hunger and hard duty, brought down to the
meagre condition of my fellow-soldiers, and my linen reduced from three tolerable shirts to
two pair of sleeves and necks, the bodies having been long ago converted into spatterdaches;
and after all, I was better provided than any private man in the regiment. In this urgency
of my affairs, I wrote to my uncle in England, though my hopes from that quarter were not at
all sanguine, for the reasons I have already explained; and in the meantime had recourse to
my old remedy patience, consoling myself with the flattering suggestions of a lively imagination,
that never abandoned me in my distress.

One day, while I stood sentinel at the gate of a general officer, a certain nobleman came to
the door, followed by a gentleman in mourning, to whom, at parting, I heard him say, "You may
depend upon my good offices." This assurance was answered by a low bow of the person in black,
who, turning to go away, discovered to me the individual countenance of my old friend and adherent
Strap. I was so much astonished at the sight, that I lost the power of utterance, and, before
I could recollect myself, he was gone without taking any notice of me. Indeed, had he stayed,
I scarcely should have ventured to accost him; because, though I was perfectly well acquainted
with the features of his face, I could not be positively certain as to the rest of his person,
which was very much altered for the better since he left me at London, neither could I conceive
by which means he was enabled to appear in the sphere of a gentleman, to which, while I knew
him, he had not even the ambition to aspire. But I was too much concerned in the affair to
neglect further information, and therefore took the first opportunity of asking the porter
if he knew the gentleman to whom the marquis spoke. The Swiss told me his name was Monsieur
d'Estrapes, that he had been valet-de-chambre to an English gentleman lately deceased, and
that he was very much regarded by the marquis for his fidelity to his master, between whom
and that nobleman a very intimate friendship had subsisted. Nothing could be more agreeable
to me than this piece of intelligence, which banished all doubt of its being my friend, who
had found means to frenchify his name as well as his behaviour since we parted. As soon, therefore,
as I was relieved, I went to his lodging, according to a direction given me by the Swiss, and
had the good fortune to find him at home. That I might surprise him the more, I concealed my
name and business, and only desired the servant of the house to tell Monsieur d'Estrapes that
I begged the honour of half-an-hour's conversation with him. He was confounded and dismayed
at this message, when he understood it was sent by a soldier; though he was conscious to himself
of no crime, all that he had heard of the Bastille appeared to his imagination with aggravated
horror, but it was not before I had waited a considerable time that he had resolution enough
to bid the servant show me up-stairs.

When I entered his chamber, he returned my bow with great civility, and endeavoured, with forced
complaisance, to disguise his fear, which appeared in the paleness of his face, the wildness
of his looks, and the shaking of his limbs. I was diverted at his consternation, which redoubled,
when I told him in French, I had business for his private ear and demanded a particular audience.
The valet being withdrawn, I asked in the same language if his name was d'Estrapes, to which
he answered with a faltering tongue, "The same, at your service." "Are you a Frenchman?" Said
I. "I have not the honour of being a Frenchman born," replied he, "but I have an infinite veneration
for the country." I then desired he would do me the honour to look at me, which he no sooner
did than, struck with my appearance, he started back, and cried in English, "O Jesus!--sure
it can't! No 'tis impossible!" I smiled at his interjections, saying, "I suppose you are too
much of a gentleman to own your friend in adversity." When he heard me pronounce these words
in our own language, he leaped upon me in a transport of joy, hung about my neck, kissed me
from ear to ear, and blubbered like a great schoolboy who had been whipped. Then, observing
my dress, he set up his throat, crying, "O Lord! O Lord! that ever I should live to see my
dearest friend reduced to the condition of a foot soldier in the French service! Why did you
consent to my leaving you?--but I know the reason--you thought you had got more creditable
friends, and grew ashamed of my acquaintance. Ah! Lord help us! though I was a little short-sighted,
I was not altogether blind: and though I did not complain, I was not the less sensible of your
unkindness, which was indeed the only thing that induced me to ramble abroad, the Lord knows
whither; but I must own it has been a lucky ramble for me, and so I forgive you, and may God
forgive you! O Lord! Lord! is it come to this?" I was nettled at the charge, which, though
just, I could not help thinking unseasonable, and told him with some tartness that, whether
his suspicions were well or ill grounded, he might have chosen a more convenient opportunity
of introducing them; and that the question now was whether or no he found himself disposed
to lend me any assistance. "Disposed!" replied he with great emotion; "I thought you had known
me so well as to assure yourself without asking, that I, and all that belongs to me, are at
your command. In the meantime you shall dine with me, and I will tell you something that, perhaps,
will not be displeasing unto you." Then, wringing my hand, he said, "It makes my heart bleed
to see you in that garb!" I thanked him for his invitation, which, I observed, could not be
unwelcome to a person who had not eaten a comfortable meal these seven months; but I had another
request to make, which I begged he would grant before dinner, and that was the loan of a shirt;
for although my back had been many weeks a stranger to any comfort of that kind, my skin was
not yet familiarised to the want of it. He stared in my face, with a woful countenance, at
this declaration, which he could scarce believe, until I explained it by unbuttoning my coat
and disclosing my naked body--a circumstance which shocked the tender-hearted Strap, who, with
tears in his eyes, ran to a chest of drawers, and taking out some linen, presented to me a
very fine ruffled Holland shirt and cambric neckcloth, assuring me he had three dozen of the
same kind at my service.

I was ravished at this piece of good news and, having accommodated myself in a moment, hugged
my benefactor for his generous offer, saying, I was overjoyed to find him undebauched by prosperity,
which seldom fails to corrupt the heart. He bespoke for dinner some soup and bouilli, a couple
of pullets roasted, and a dish of asparagus, and in the interim entertained me with biscuit
and Burgundy, after which repast he entreated me to gratify his longing desire of knowing every
circumstance of my fortune since his departure from London. This request I complied with, beginning
at the adventure of Gawky, and relating every particular event in which I had been concerned
from that day to the present hour. During the recital, my friend was strongly affected, according
to the various situations described. He stared with surprise, glowed with indignation, gaped
with curiosity, smiled with pleasure, trembled with fear, and wept with sorrow, as the vicissitudes
of my life inspired these different passions; and, when my story was ended, signified his amazement
on the whole, by lifting up his eyes and hands and protesting that, though I was a young man,
had suffered more than all the blessed martyrs.

After dinner, I desired in my turn to know the particulars of his peregrination, and he satisfied
me in a few words, by giving me to understand that he had lived a year at Paris with his master,
who, in that time having acquired the language, as well as the fashionable exercises to perfection,
made a tour of France and Holland, during which excursion he was so unfortunate as to meet
with three of his own countrymen on their travels, in whose company he committed such excesses,
that his constitution failed, and he fell into a consumption; that by the advice of physicians,
he went to Montpelier for the benefit of good air, and recovered so well in six weeks, that
he returned to Rheims seemingly in good health, where he had not continued above a month, when
he was seized with a looseness that carried him off in ten days, to the unspeakable sorrow
of all who knew him and especially of Strap, who had been very happy in his service, and given
such satisfaction, that his master, on his death-bed recommended him to several persons of
distinction for his diligence, sobriety, and affection, and left him by will his wearing apparel,
gold watch, sword, rings, ready money, and all the moveables he had in France, to the value
of three hundred pounds "which I now," said he, "in the sight of God and man, surrender to
your absolute disposal: here are my keys; take them, I beseech you, and God give you joy of
the possession." My brain was almost turned by this sudden change of fortune, which I could
scarce believe real: however, I positively refused this extravagant proffer of my friend, and
put him in mind of my being a soldier; at which hint he started, crying, "Odso! that's true!
we must procure your discharge. I have some interest with a nobleman who is able to do me that
favour."

We consulted about this affair, and it was determined that Monsieur d'Estrapes should wait
upon the Marquis in the morning, and tell him he had by accident found his brother, whom he
had not seen for many years before, a private soldier in the regiment of Picardy, and implore
that nobleman's interest for his discharge. In the meantime, we enjoyed ourselves over a bottle
of good Burgundy, and spent the evening in concerting schemes for our future conduct, in case
I should be so lucky as to get rid of the army. The business was to make ourselves easy for
life by means of his legacy, a task very difficult, and, in the usual methods of laying out
money, altogether impracticable, so that, after much canvassing, we could come to no resolution
that night, but when we parted, recommended the matter to the serious attention of each other.
As for my own part, I puzzled my imagination to no purpose. When I thought of turning merchant,
the smallness of our stock, and the risk of seas, enemies, and markets, deterred me from that
scheme. If I should settle as a surgeon in my own country, I would find the business already
overstocked; or, if I pretended to set up in England, must labour under want of friends and
powerful opposition, obstacles insurmountable by the most shining merit: neither should I succeed
in my endeavours to rise in the state, inasmuch as I could neither flatter nor pimp for courtiers,
nor prostitute my pen in defence of a wicked and contemptible administration. Before I could
form any feasible project, I fell asleep, and my fancy was blest with the image of the dear
Narcissa, who seemed to smile upon my passion, and offer her hand as a reward for all my toils.

Early in the morning, I went to the lodgings of my friend, whom I found exulting over his happy
invention! for I no sooner entered his apartment, than he addressed himself to me in these
words, with a smile of self-applause: "Well, Mr. Random, a lucky thought may come into a fool's
head sometimes. I have hit it--I'll hold you a button my plan is better than yours, for all
your learning. But you shall have the preference in this as in all other things; therefore
proceed, and let us know the effects of your meditation; and then I will impart my own simple
excogitations." I told him, that not one thought had occurred to me which deserved the least
notice, and signified my impatience to be acquainted with the fruits of his reflection. "As
we have not," said he, "money sufficient to maintain us during a tedious expectation, it is
my opinion that a bold push must be made; and I see none so likely to succeed as your appearing
in the character of a gentleman (which is your due), and making your addresses to some lady
of fortune, who can render you independent at once. Nay, don't stare--I affirm that this scheme
is both prudent and honourable; for I would not have you throw yourself away upon an old toothless
wheezing dame, whose breath would stink you into a consumption in less than three months, neither
would I advise you to assume the character of a wealthy squire, as your common fortune-hunters
do, by which means many a poor lady is cheated into matrimony, and instead of enjoying the
pomp and grandeur that was promised, sees her dowry seized by her husband's rapacious creditors,
and herself reduced to misery and despair. No, I know you have a soul that disdains such imposition;
and are master of qualifications, both of mind and body, which alone entitle you to a match
that will set you above the world. I have clothes in my possession that a duke need not be
ashamed to wear. I believe they will fit you as they are, if not there are plenty of tailors
in France. Let us take a short trip to Paris, and provide ourselves with all other necessaries,
then set out for England, where I intend to do myself the honour of attending you in quality
of a valet. This expedient will save you the expense of a servant, shaving, and dressing; and
I doubt not but, by the blessing of God, we shall bring matters to a speedy and fortunate issue."
Extravagant as this proposal was, I listened to it with pleasure, because it flattered my vanity,
and indulged a ridiculous hope I began to entertain of inspiring Narcissa with a mutual flame.

After breakfast, Monsieur d'Estrapes went to pay his devoirs to the marquis, and was so successful
in his application, that I obtained a discharge in a few days, upon which we set out for Paris.
Here I had time to reflect and congratulate myself upon this sudden transition of fate, which
to bear with moderation required some degree of philosophy and self-denial. This truth will
be more obvious, if I give a detail of the particulars, to the quiet possession of which I
was raised in an instant, from the most abject misery and contempt. My wardrobe consisted of
five fashionable coats full mounted, two of which were plain, one of cut velvet, one trimmed
with gold, and another with silver lace, two frocks, one of white drab, with large plate buttons,
the other of blue with gold binding; one waistcoat of gold brocade; one of blue satin, embroidered
with silver; one of green silk, trimmed with figured broad gold lace; one of black silk, with
fringes; one of white satin, one of black cloth, and one of scarlet; six pair of cloth breeches;
one pair of crimson, and another of black velvet; twelve pair of white silk stockings, as many
of black silk, and the same number of white cotton; one hat, laced with gold point d'Espagne,
another with silver lace scolloped, a third with gold binding, and a fourth plain; three dozen
of fine ruffled shirts, as many neckcloths; one dozen of cambric handkerchiefs, and the like
number of silk. The other moveables, which I possessed by the generosity and friendship of
Strap, were a gold watch with a chased case, two valuable diamond rings, two mourning swords,
one with a silver handle, and a fourth cut steel inlaid with gold, a diamond stock buckle,
and a set of stone buckles for the knees and shoes; a pair of silver-mounted pistols with rich
housings; a gold-headed cane, and a snuff-box of tortoiseshell, mounted with gold, having the
picture of a lady in the top. The gentleman left many other things of value, which my friend
had converted into cash before I met with him; so that, over and above these particulars, our
stock in ready money amounted to something more than two hundred pounds.

Thus equipped, I put on the gentleman of figure, and, attended by my honest friend, who was
contented with the station of my valet, visited the Louvre, examined the gallery of Luxembourg,
and appeared at Versailles, where I had the honour of seeing his Most Christian Majesty eat
a considerable quantity of olives. During the month I spent at Paris, I went several times
to court, the Italian comedy, opera, and playhouse, danced at a masquerade, and, in short,
saw everything remarkable in and about that capital. Then we set out for England by the way
of Flanders, passed through Brussels, Ghent, and Bruges, and took shipping at Ostend, from
whence, in fourteen hours, we arrived at Deal, hired a postchaise, and in twelve hours more
got safe to London, having disposed of our heavy baggage in the waggon.

CHAPTER XLV

I inquire for my Uncle, and understand he is gone to sea--take Lodgings at Charing Cross--go
to the Play, where I meet with an adventure--Dine at an ordinary--the Guests described--become
acquainted with Medlar and Doctor Wagtail

As soon as we alighted at the inn, I dispatched Strap to inquire for my uncle at the Union
Flag in Wapping; and he returned in a little time, with an account of Mr. Bowling's having
gone to sea, mate of a merchant ship, after a long and unsuccessful application attendance
at the Admiralty; where, it seems, the interest he depended upon was not sufficient to reinstate
him, or recover the pay that was due to him when he quitted the Thunder.

Next day I hired very handsome lodgings not far from Charing Cross; and in the evening dressed
myself in a plain suit of the true Paris cut, and appeared in a front box at the play, where
I saw a good deal of company, and was vain enough to believe that I was observed with an uncommon
degree of attention and applause. This silly conceit intoxicated me so much, that I was guilty
of a thousand ridiculous coquetries; and I dare say, how favourable soever the thoughts of
the company might be at my first appearance, they were soon changed by my absurd behaviour
into pity or contempt. I rose and sat down, covered and uncovered my head twenty times between
the acts; pulled out my watch, clapped it to my ear, wound it up, set it, gave it the hearing
again; displayed my snuff-box, affected to take snuff, that I might have all opportunity of
showing my brilliant, and wiped my nose with perfumed handkerchief; then dangled my cane, and
adjusted my sword-knot, and acted many more fooleries of the same kind, in hopes of obtaining
the character of a pretty fellow, in the acquiring of which I found two considerable obstructions
in my disposition--namely, a natural reserve and jealous sensibility. Fain would I have entered
into conversation with the people around me: but I was restrained by the fear of being censured
for my assurance, as well as by reflecting that I was more entitled to a compliment of this
kind from them, than they to such condescension from a stranger like me. How often did I redden
at the frequent whispers and loud laughter of my fellow beaux, which I imagined were excited
by me; and how often did I envy the happy indifference of those choice spirits, who behold
the distress of the scene without discovering the least symptom of approbation or concern.
My attention was engaged in spite of myself, and I could not help weeping with the heroine
of the stage, though I practised a great many shifs to conceal this piece of unpolite weakness.

When the play was ended, I sat waiting for an opportunity of handing some lady to her coach;
but everyone was attended by such a number of officious gallants, that for a long time I was
balked in my expectation. At length, however, I perceived a very handsome creature, genteelly
dressed, sitting by herself in a box, at some distance from me; upon which I went up to her,
and offered my service. She seemed to be in some confusion, thanked me for my complaisance,
and with a tender look declined giving me the trouble: looking at her watch, and testifying
her surprise at the negligence of her footman whom she had ordered to have a chair ready for
her at that hour. I repeated my entreaty with all the eloquence and compliment I was master
of; and, in the event, she was prevailed upon to accept of a proposal I made, to send my servant
for a chair or coach: accordingly, Strap was detached for that purpose, and returned without
success. By this time the playhouse was quite empty, and we were obliged to retire. As I led
her through the passage, I observed five or six young fellows of fashion standing in a corner,
one of whom, as I thought, tipped my charmer the wink, and when we were passed, I heard a loud
laugh. This note aroused my attention, and I was resolved to be fully satisfied of this lady's
character, before I should have any nearer connection with her. As no convenience appeared,
I proposed to conduct her to a tavern, where we might stay a few minutes, until my servant
could fetch a coach from the Strand. She seemed particularly shy of trusting herself in a tavern
with a stranger, but at last yielded to my pathetic remonstrances, rather than endanger her
health by remaining in a cold, damp thoroughfare. Having thus far succeeded, I begged to know
what wine she would be pleased to drink a glass of; but she professed the greatest aversion
to all sorts of strong liquors, and it was with much difficulty that I could persuade her to
eat a jelly.

In the meantime, I endeavoured to alleviate the uneasiness she discovered, by saying all the
agreeable things I could think of; at which she would often sigh, and regard me with a languishing
look, that seemed, however, too near akin to the lewd leer of a courtesan. This discovery added
to my former suspicion, while it put me upon my guard against her arts, divested me of reserve,
and enabled me to entertain her with gaiety and freedom. In the course of our conversation,
I pressed her to allow me the honour of waiting upon her next day at her lodgings, a request
which she, with many apologues, refused, lest it should give umbrage to Sir John, who was of
a disposition apt to be fretted with trifles. This information, by which I was to understand
that her husband was a knight, did not check my addresses, which became more and more importunate,
and I was even hardy enough to ravish a kiss. But, O heavens! instead of banqueting on the
ambrosial flavour, that her delicacy of complexion promised, I was almost suffocated with the
steams of Geneva! An exhalation of this kind, from a mouth which had just before declared an
utter abhorrence of all spirituous liquors, not only changed my doubts into certainty, but
my raptures into loathing; and it would have been impossible for me to have preserved common
complaisance five minutes longer, when my servant returned with a coach. I took the advantage
of this occasion, and presented my hand to the lady, who put in practice against me the whole
artillery of her charms, ogling, languishing, sighing, and squeezing, with so little reserve
that Strap perceived her tenderness, and rubbed his hands with joy as he followed us to the
door; but I was proof against all her endearments, and handed her into the coach with an intention
to take my leave immediately. She guessed my design, and invited me to her house, whispering,
that now Sir John was gone to bed, she could have the pleasure of my conversation for half-an-hour
without interruption. I told her there was no mortification I would not undergo, rather than
endanger the repose of her ladyship; and, bidding the coachman drive on, wished her a good
night. She lost all temper at my indifference, and, stopping the coach, at the distance of
about twenty yards from me, popped out her head, and howled with the lungs of a fishwoman,
"D--n you, you dog, won't you pay the coach-hire?" As I made no answer, she held forth against
me with an eloquence peculiar to herself; calling me pitifull fellow, scoundrel, and a hundred
such appellations; concluding with an oath, that, for all my appearance, she believed I had
got no money in my pocket.

Having thus vented her indignation, she ordered her coachman to proceed, and I returned to
the tavern, where I bespoke something for supper, very well pleased at the issue of this adventure.
I dispensed with the attendance of the waiter at table, on pretence that my own servant was
present, and, when we were alone, said to Strap, "Well, Monsieur d'Estrapes, what d'ye think
of this lady?" My friend, who had not opened his mouth since her departure, could make no other
reply than the monosyllable "Think!" which he pronounced with a note of fear and astonishment.
Surprised at this emphasis, I surveyed my valet, and, perceiving a wildness in his looks, asked
if he had seen his grandfather's ghost? "Ghost!" said he, "I am sure I have seen a devil incarnate!
Who would have thought that so much devilish malice and Billingsgate could lurk under so much
sweetness of countenance and modesty of behaviour? Ah! God help us! Fronti nulla fides--nimium
ne crede colori--but we ought to down on our knees, and bless God for delivering us from the
jaws of that painted sepulchre!" I was pretty much of Strap's opinion, and, though I did not
believe myself in any danger from the allurements of that sisterhood, I determined to act with
great circumspection for the future, and shun all commerce of that kind, as equally prejudicial
to my purse and constitution.

My next care was to introduce myself into a set of good acquaintance: for which purpose I frequented
a certain coffee-house, noted for the resort of good company, English as well as foreigners,
where my appearance procured all the civilities and advances I could desire. As there was an
ordinary in the same house, I went upstairs to dinner with the other guests, and found myself
at a table with thirteen people, the greatest part of whom were better dressed than myself.
The conversation, which was mostly carried on in French, turned chiefly on politics; and I
soon found the whole company were in the French interest, myself excepted, and a testy old
gentleman, who contradicted everything that was advanced in favour of his Most Christian Majesty,
with a surliness truly English. But this trusty patriot, who had never been out of his own
country, and drew all his maxims and notions from prejudice and hearsay, was very unequal to
his antagonists, who were superior to him in learning and experience, and often took the liberty
of travellers in asserting things which were not strictly true, because they thought themselves
in no danger of being detected by him. The claim of the Queen Of Spain to the Austrian dominions
in Italy was fully explained and vindicated, by a person who sat opposite to me, and, by the
solemnity of his manner and the richness of his apparel, seemed to be a foreign ambassador.
This dissertation produced another on the Pragmatic Sanction, handled with great warmth by
a young gentleman at my right hand, dressed in a green frock, trimmed with gold, who justified
the French king for his breach of that contract; and affirmed that he could not have observed
it without injuring his own glory. Although I was not at all convinced by this gentleman's
arguments, I could not help admiring his vivacity which, I imagined, must be the effect of
his illustrious birth and noble education, and accordingly rated him, in my conjecture, as
a young prince on his travels. The discourse was afterwards shifted by an old gentleman, of
a very martial appearance, to the last campaign, when the battle of Dettingen was fought over
again, with so many circumstances to the honour of the French and disadvantages if the Allies,
that I began to entertain some doubts of my having been there in person, and took the liberty
to mention some objections to what he advanced. This freedom introduced a dispute, which lasted
a good while, to the mortification of all present; and was at last referred to the determination
of a grave person, whom they styled Doctor, and who, under a show of great moderation, decided
it against me, with so little regard to truth, that I taxed him with partiality in pretty severe
terms, to the no small entertainment of the true English politician, who rejoiced at my defence
of a cause he had so often espoused without success.

My opponent, pleased with the victory he had gained, affected a great deal of candour, and
told me, he should not have been so positive, if he had not been at great pains to inform himself
of each particular. "Indeed," said he, "I am convinced that the previous steps considered,
things could not happen otherwise; for we generals who have seen service, though we may not
be on the spot ourselves, know by the least sketch of the disposition what must be the event."
He then censured, with great freedom, every circumstance of the conduct of those who commanded
the Allies; from thence made a transition to the ministry, which he honoured with many invectives
for employing people who had neither experience nor capacity, to the prejudice of old officers,
who had been distinguished for both; dropped many hints of his own importance, and concluded
with observing, that the French and Spaniards knew better how to value generals of merit; the
good effects of which are seen in the conquests they gain, and the discipline of their troops,
which are at the same time better clothed and paid than any soldiers in the universe. These
remarks furnished the green knight with an opportunity of launching out in the praise of the
French government in general, civil as well as military; on which occasion he made many odious
comparisons to the disadvantage of the English. Everybody, almost, assented to the observations
he made, and the doctor gave his sanction, by saying, the people of France were undoubtedly
the happiest subjects in the world. I was so much astonished and confounded at their infatuation
and effrontery, that I had not power to utter one word in opposition to their assertions; but
my morose associate could not put up with the indignity that was offered to Old England, and
therefore with a satirical grin addressed himself to the general in these words: "Sir, sir,
I have often heard it said, She's a villainous bird that befouls her own nest. As for what
those people who are foreigners say, I don't mind it; they know no better; but you who were
bred and born, and have got your bread, under the English government, should have more regard
to gratitude, as well as truth in censuring your native country. If the ministry have thought
fit to lay you aside, I suppose they have their own reasons for so doing; and you ought to
remember, that you still live on the bounty of this nation. As for these gentlemen (meaning
the prince and ambassador), who make so free with our constitution, laws, and genius of our
people, I think they might show a little more respect for their benefactors, who, I must own,
are to blame in harbouring and protecting, and encouraging such ungrateful vagrants as they
are." At these words, the chevalier in green started up in a great passion, and laying his
hand on the hilt of his hanger, exclaimed, "Ah! foutre!" The Englishman on the other hand,
grasping his cane cried, "Don't foutre me, sirrah, or by G--d I'll knock you down." The company
interposed, the Frenchman sat down again, and his antagonist proceeded--"Lookey, Monsieur,
you know very well that had you dared to speak so freely of the administration of your own
country in Paris as you have done of ours in London, you would have been sent to the Bastille
without ceremony, where you might have rotted in a dungeon, and never seen the light of the
sun again. Now, sir, take my word for it, although our constitution screens us from such oppression,
we want not laws to chastise the authors of seditious discourse, and if I hear another syllable
out of your mouth in contempt or prejudice of this kingdom, I will give you a convincing proof
of what I advance, and have you laid by the heels for your presumption." This declaration had
an effect on the company as sudden as surprising. The young prince became as supple as a spaniel,
the ambassador trembled, the general sat silent and abashed, and the doctor, who it seems,
had felt the rod of power, grew pale as death, and assured us all, that he had no intention
to affront any person or people. "Your principles, doctor," resumed the old gentleman, "are
no secret--I have nothing to say upon that head; but am very much surprised, that a man who
despises us so much, should notwithstanding live among us, when he has no visible motive for
so doing. Why don't you take up your habitation in your beloved France, where you may rail
at England without censure?" To this remonstrance the doctor thought proper to make no reply,
and an unsocial silence ensued; which I perceiving, took notice, that it was pity such idle
disputes, maintained very often through whim or diversion, should create any misunderstanding
among gentlemen of good sense, and proposed to drink down all animosity in another bottle.

This motion was applauded by the whole company. The wine was brought, and the English champion,
declaring he had no spleen against any man for differing in opinion from him, any more than
for difference of complexion, drank to the good health of all present; the compliment was returned,
and the conversation once more became unreserved though more general than before. Among other
topics, the subject of war was introduced, on which the general declaimed with great eloquence,
recounting many of his own exploits by way of illustration. In the course of his harangue he
happened to mention the word epaulement, upon which the testy gentleman asked the meaning,
of that term. "I'll tell you what an epaulement is," replied he, "I never saw an epaulement
but once, and that was at the siege of Namur. In a council of war, Monsieur Cohorn, the famous
engineer, affirmed that the place could not be taken." "Yes," said the Prince of Vandemont,
"it may be taken by an epaulement." "This was immediately put into execution, and in twenty-four
hours Mareschal Boufflers was fain to capitulate." Here he made a full stop, and the old gentleman
repeated the question, "But pray what is an epaulement?" To this interrogation the officer
made no immediate reply, but rang the bell, and called for the bill, which being brought, he
threw down his proportion of the reckoning, and, telling the company he would show them an
epaulement when his majesty should think fit to entrust him with the command of our army abroad,
strutted away with great dignity. I could not imagine why he was so shy of explaining one of
the most simple terms of fortification, which I forthwith described as a side-work composed
of earth, gabions, or fascines; but I was very much surprised when I afterwards understood
that his reserve proceeded from his ignorance.

Having paid our bill, we adjourned to the coffee-room, where my fellow-labourer insisted on
treating me with a dish, giving me to understand, at the same time, that I had acquired his
good opinion, both with respect to my principles and understanding. I thanked him for his compliment,
and, professing myself an utter stranger in this part of the world, begged he would have the
goodness to inform me of the quality and characters of the people who dined above. This request
was a real favour to one of his disposition, which was no less communicative than curious;
he therefore complied with great satisfaction, and told me, to my extreme astonishment, that
the supposed young prince was a dancer at one of the theatres, and the ambassador no other
than a fiddler belonging to the opera. "The doctor," said he "is a Roman Catholic priest, who
sometimes appears in the character of an officer, and assumes the name of captain; but more
generally takes the garb, title, and behaviour of a physician, in which capacity he wheedles
himself into the confidence of weak-minded people, and by arguments no less specious than false,
converts them from their religion and allegiance. He has been in the hands of justice more
than once for such practices, but he is a sly dog, and manages matters with so much craft,
that hitherto he has escaped for a short imprisonment. As for the general, you may see he has
owed his promotion more to his interest than his capacity; and, now that the eyes of the ministry
are opened, his friends dead or become inconsiderable, he is struck off the list, and obliged
to put up with a yearly pension. In consequence of this reduction, he is become malcontent,
and inveighs against the government in all companies, with so little discretion, that I am
surprised at the lenity of the administration, in overlooking his insolence, but the truth
of the matter is, he owes his safety to his weakness and want of importance. He has seen a
little, and but a little, service, and yet, if you will take his word to it, there has not
been a great action performed in the field since the Revolution, in which he was not principally
concerned. When a story is told of any great general, he immediately matches it with one of
himself, though he is often unhappy in his invention, and commits such gross blunders in the
detail, that everybody is in pain for him. Caesar, Pompey, and Alexander the Great, are continually
in his mouth; and, as he reads a good deal without any judgment to digest it, his ideas are
confused, and his harangues as unintelligible as infinite; for, if once he begin, there is
no chance of his leaving off speaking while one person remains to yield attention; therefore
the only expedient I know, for putting a stop to his loquacity, is to lay hold of some incongruity
he has uttered, and demand an explanation; or ask the meaning of some difficult term that he
knows by name; this method will effectually put him to silence, if not to flight, as it happened
when I inquired about an epaulement. Had he been acquainted with the signification of that
word, his triumph would have been intolerable, and we must have quitted the field first, or
been worried with impertinence."

Having thus gratified my curiosity, the old gentleman began to discover his own, in questions
relating to myself, to which I thought proper to return ambiguous answers. "I presume, Sir,"
said he, "you have travelled." I answered, "Yes." "I dare say you have found it very expensive,"
said he. I replied, "To be sure, one cannot travel without money." "That I know by experience,"
said he, "for I myself take a trip to Bath or Tunbridge every season; and one must pay sauce
for what he has on the road, as well in other countries as in this. That's a pretty stone in
your ring--give me leave, sir--the French have attained to a wonderful skill in making compositions
of this kind. Why, now, this looks almost as well as a diamond." "Almost as well, Sir!" said
I, "Why not altogether? I am sure if you understand anything of jewels, you must perceive,
at first sight, that this stone is a real diamond, and that of a very fine water. Take it in
your hand and examine it." He did so with some confusion, and returned it, saying, "I ask your
pardon; I see it is a true brilliant of immense value." I imagined his respect to me increased
after this inquiry; therefore to captivate his esteem the more, I told him, I would show him
a seal of composition, engraved after a very valuable antique; upon which I pulled out my watch
with a rich gold chain, adorned with three seals set in gold, and an opal ring. He viewed each
of them with great eagerness, handled the chain, admired the chased case, and observed that
the whole must have cost me a vast sum of money. I affected indifference, and replied in a
careless manner, "Some trifle of sixty or seventy guineas." He stared in my face for some time,
and then asked if I was an Englishman? I answered in the negative. "You are from Ireland then,
Sir, I presume," said he. I made the same reply. "Oh! perhaps," said he "you were born in one
of our settlements abroad." I still answered No. He seemed very much surprised, and said, he
was sure I was not a foreigner. I made no reply, but left him upon the tenter-hooks of impatient
uncertainty. He could not contain his anxiety, but asked pardon for the liberties he had taken
and, to encourage me the more to disclose my situation, displayed his own without reserve.
"I am," said he, "a single man, have a considerable annuity, on which I live according to my
inclination, and make the ends of the year meet very comfortably. As I have no estate to leave
behind, I am not troubled with the importunate officiousness of relations or legacy hunters,
and I consider the world as made for me, not me for the world. It is my maxim, therefore, to
enjoy it while I can, and let futurity shift for itself."

While he thus indulged his own talkative vein, and at the same time, no doubt, expected retaliation
from me, a young man entered, dressed in black velvet and an enormous tie-wig, with an air
in which natural levity and affected solemnity were so jumbled together, that on the whole
he appeared a burlesque on all decorum. This ridiculous oddity danced up to the table at which
we sat, and, after a thousand grimaces, asked my friend by the name of Mr. Medlar, if we were
not engaged upon business. My companion put on a surly countenance, and replied "No great business,
doctor--but however--" "Oh! then," cried the physician; "I must beg your indulgence a little;
pray pardon me, gentlemen." "Sir," said he, addressing himself to me, "your most humble servant.
I hope you will forgive me, sir--I must beg the favour to sit--sir--sir--I have something of
consequence to impart to my friend Mr. Medlar--sir, I hope you will excuse my freedom in whispering,
sir," Before I had time to give this complaisant person my permission, Mr. Medlar cried, "I'll
have no whispering--if you have anything to say to me, speak with an audible voice." The doctor
seemed a little disconcerted at this exclamation, and, turning again to me, made a thousand
apologies for pretending to make a mystery of anything, a piece of caution which he said was
owing to his ignorance of my connection with Mr. Medlar; but now he understood I was a friend,
and would communicate what he had to say in my hearing. He then began, after two or three hems,
in this manner: "You must know, sir, I am just come from dinner at my Lady Flareit's (then
addressing himself to me), a lady of quality, sir, at whose table I have the honour of dining
sometimes. There was Lady Stately and my Lady Larum, and Mrs. Dainty, and Miss Biddy Giggler,
upon my word, a very good-natured young lady, with a very pretty fortune sir. There was also
my Lord Straddle. Sir John Shrug, and Master Billy Chatter, who is actually a very facetious
young gentleman. So, sir, her ladyship seeing me excessively fatigued, for she was the last
of fifteen patients (people of distinction, sir) whom I had visited this forenoon, insisted
upon my staying dinner, though upon my word I protest I had no appetite; however, in compliance
with her ladyship's request, sir, I sat down, and the conversation turning on different subjects,
among other things, Mr Chatter asked very earnestly when I saw Mr. Medlar. I told him I had
not had the pleasure of seeing you these nineteen hours and a half; for you may remember, sir,
it was nearly about that time; I won't be positive as to a minute." "No," says he, "then I
desire you will go to his lodgings immediately after dinner, and see what's the matter with
him, for he must certainly be very bad from having eaten last night such a vast quantity of
raw oysters." The crusty gentleman, who, from the solemnity of his delivery, expected something
extraordinary, no sooner heard his conclusion, than he started up in a testy humour, crying,
"Pshaw, pshaw! D--n your oysters!" and walked away, after a short compliment of, "Your servant
sir," to me. The doctor got up also, saying, "I vow and protest, upon my word, I am actually
amazed;" and followed Mr. Medlar to the bar, which was hard by, where he was paying for his
coffee: there he whispered so loud that I could overhear, "Pray who is this gentleman?" His
friend replied hastily, "I might have known that before now, if it had not been for your impertinent
intrusion,"--and walked off very much disappointed. The ceremonious physician returned immediately
and sat down by me, asking a thousand pardons for leaving me alone: and giving me to understand
that what he had communicated to Mr. Medlar at the bar, was an affair of the last importance,
that would admit of no delay. He then called for some coffee, and launched out into the virtues
of that berry, which, he said, in cold phlegmatic constitutions, like his, dried up the superfluous
moisture, and braced the relaxed nerves. He told me it was utterly unknown to the ancients;
and derived its name from an Arabian word, which I might easily perceive by the sound and termination.
From this topic he transferred his disquisitions to the verb drink, which he affirmed was improperly
applied to the taking of coffee, inasmuch as people did not drink, but sip or sipple that liquor;
that the genuine meaning of drinking is to quench one's thirst, or commit a debauch by swallowing
wine; that the Latin word, which conveyed the same idea, was bibere or potare, and that of
the Greeks pinein or poteein, though he was apt to believe they were differently used on different
occasions: for example--to drink a vast quantity, or, as the vulgar express it, to drink an
ocean of liquor, was in Latin potare, and in Greek poteein; and, on the other hand, to use
it moderately, was bibere and pinein;--that this was only a conjecture of his, which, however,
seemed to be supported by the word bibulous, which is particularly applied to the pores of
the skin, and can only drink a very small quantity of the circumambient moisture, by reason
of the smallness of their diameters;--whereas, from the verb poteein is derived the substantive
potamos, which signifies a river, or vast quantity of liquor.

That I had never heard of the verb poteein, but that potamos, potema, and potos, were derived
from pino, poso, pepoka, in consequence of which, the Greek poets never use any other word
for festal drinking. Homer describes Nestor at his cups in these words,

    "Nestora d'ouk elathen jache pinonta pcrempes."

And Anacreon mentions it on the same occasion always in every page.

          "Pinonti de oinon hedun.
          Otan pino ton oinon.
          Opliz' ego de pino."

And in a thousand other places. The doctor who doubtless intended by his criticism to give
me a high idea of his erudition, was infinitely surprised to find himself schooled by one of
my appearance; and after a considerable pause cried, "Upon my word, you are in the right, sir--I
find I have not considered this affair with my usual accuracy." Then, accosting me in Latin,
which he spoke very well, the conversation was maintained full two hours, on a variety of subjects,
in that language; and indeed he spoke so judiciously, that I was convinced, notwithstanding
his whimsical appearance and attention to trifles, that he was a man of extensive knowledge,
especially in books; he looked upon me, as I afterwards understood from Mr. Medlar, as a prodigy
in learning, and proposed that very night, if I were not engaged, to introduce me to several
young gentlemen of fortune and fashion, with whom I had an appointment at the Bedford coffee house.

CHAPTER XLVI

Wagtail introduces me to set of fine Gentlemen with whom I spend the Evening at a Tavern--our
Conversation--the Characters of my new Companions--the Doctor is roasted--our Issue of our Debauch

I accepted his offer with pleasure, and we went thither in a hackney coach where I saw a great
number of gay figures fluttering about, most of whom spoke to the doctor with great familiarity.
Among the rest stood a group of them round the fire whom I immediately knew to be the very
persons who had the night before, by their laughing, alarmed my suspicion of the lady who had
put herself under my protection. They no sooner perceived me enter with Dr. Wagtail (for that
was my companion's name) than they tittered and whispered one to another, and I was not a little
surprised to find that they were the gentlemen to whose acquaintance he designed to recommend
me; for, when he observed them together, he to told me who they were, and desired to know by
what name he should introduce me. I satisfied him in that particular, and he advanced with
great gravity, saying, "Gentlemen, your most obedient servant:--give me leave to introduce
my friend Mr. Random to your society." Then, turning to me, "Mr. Random, this is Mr. Bragwell--Mr.
Banter, sir--Mr. Chatter--my friend Mr. Slyboot, and Mr. Ranter sir." I saluted each of then
in order, and when I came to take Mr. Slyboot by the hand, I perceived him thrust his tongue
in his cheek, to the no small entertainment of the company; but I did not think proper to take
any notice of it on this occasion. Mr. Ranter too (who I afterwards learned was a player) displayed
his talents, by mimicking my air, features, and voice, while he returned my compliment: this
feat I should not have been so sensible of, had I not seen him behave in the same manner to
my friend Wagtail, when he made up to them at first. But for once I let him enjoy the fruits
of his dexterity without question or control, resolved however to chastise his insolence at
a more convenient opportunity. Mr. Slyboot, guessing I was a stranger, asked if I had been
lately in France? and when I answered in the affirmative, inquired if I had seen the Luxembourg
Gallery? I told him I had considered it more than once with great attention: upon this a conversion
ensued, in which I discovered him to be a painter.

While we were discoursing upon the particulars of this famous performance, I overheard Banter
ask Dr. Wagtail, where he had picked up this Mr. Random. To which question the physician answered,
"Upon my word, a mighty pretty sort of a gentleman--a man of fortune, sir--he has made the
grand tour, and seen the best company in Europe, air." "What, he told you so, I suppose?" said
the other: "I take him to be neither more nor less than a French valet-de-chambre." "O barbarous,
barbarous!" cried the doctor; "this is actually, upon my word, altogether unaccountable. I
know all his family perfectly well, sir; he is of the Randoms of the north--a very ancient
house sir, and a distant relation of mine." I was extremely nettled at the conjecture of Mr.
Banter, and began to entertain a very indifferent opinion of my company in general; but, as
I might possibly by their means acquire a more extensive and agreeable acquaintance, I determined
to bear these little mortifications as long as I could without injuring the dignity of my character.
After having talked for some time on the weather, plays, politics, and other coffee-house subjects,
it was proposed that we should spend the evening at a noted tavern in the neighbourhood, whither
we repaired in a body.

Having taken possession of a room, called for French wine, and bespoke supper, the glass went
about pretty freely, and the characters of my associates opened upon me more and more. It soon
appeared that the doctor was entertained as butt for the painter and player to exercise their
wit upon, for the diversion of the company. Mr. Ranter began the game by asking him what was
good for a hoarseness, lowness of spirits, and in digestion, for he was troubled with all these
complaints to a very great degree. Wagtail immediately undertook to explain the nature of his
case, and in a very prolix manner harangued upon prognostics, diagnostics, symptomatics, therapeutics,
inanition, and repletion; then calculated the force of the stomach and lungs in their respective
operations; ascribed the player's malady to a disorder in these organs, proceeding from hard
drinkings and vociferations, and prescribed a course of stomachics, with abstinence from venery,
wine, loud speaking, laughing, singing, coughing, sneezing, or hallooing. "Pah, pah!" cried
Ranter, interrupting him, "the remedy is worse than the disease--I wish I knew where to find
some tinder water." "Tinder water!" said the doctor; "Upon my word, I don't apprehend you,
Mr. Ranter." "Water extracted from tinder," replied the other, "a universal specific for all
distempers incident to man. It was invented by a learned German monk, who, for a valuable consideration,
imparted the secret to Paracelsus." "Pardon me," cried the painter, "it was first used by Solomon,
as appears by a Greek manuscript in his civil handwriting, lately found at the foot of Mount
Lebanon, by a peasant who was digging for potatoes--" "Well," said Wagtail, "in all my vast
reading, I never met with such a preparation! neither did I know till this minute, that Solomon
understood Greek, or that potatoes grew in Palestine."

Here Banter interposed, saying, he was surprised that Dr. Wagtail should make the least doubt
of Solomon's understanding Greek, when he is represented to us as the wisest and best-educated
prince in the world; and as for potatoes, they were transplanted thither from Ireland, in the
time of the Crusade, by some knights of that country. "I profess," said the doctor, "there
is nothing more likely. I would actually give a vast sum for a sight of that manuscript, which
must be inestimable; and, if I understood the process, would set about it immediately." The
player assured him the process was very simple--that he must cram a hundred-weight of dry tinder
into a glass retort, and, distilling it by the force of animal heat, it would yield half a
scruple of insipid water, one drop of which is a full dose. "Upon my integrity!" exclaimed
the incredulous doctor, "this is very amazing and extraordinary! that a caput mortuum should
yield any water at all. I must own I have always been an enemy to specifics which I thought
inconsistent with the nature of the animal economy; but certainly the authority of Solomon
is not to be questioned. I wonder where I shall find a glass retort large enough to contain
such a vast quantity of tinder, the consumption of which must, undoubtedly, raise the price
of paper, or where shall I find animal heat sufficient even to warm such a mass?" Slyboot informed
him, that he might have a retort blown for him as big as a church: and, that the easiest method
of raising the vapour by animal heat, would be to place it in the middle of an infirmary for
feverish patients, who might be upon mattresses around and in contact with it. He had he sooner
pronounced these words, than Wagtail exclaimed in a rapture, "An admirable expedient, as I
hope to be saved! I will positively put it in practice."

This simplicity of the physician furnished excellent diversion for the company, who, in their
turns, sneered at him in ironical compliments, which his vanity swallowed as the genuine sentiments
of their hearts. Mr. Chatter, impatient of so long a silence, now broke out and entertained
us with a catalogue of all the people who danced at the last Hampstead assembly, with a most
circumstantial account of the dress and ornaments of each, from the lappets of the ladies to
the shoe-buckles of the men; concluding with telling Bragwell, that his mistress Melinda was
there, and seemed to miss him: and soliciting his company at the next occasion of that kind.

"No, d--mm," said Bragwell, "I have something else to mind than dangling after a parcel of
giddy-headed girls; besides, you know my temper is so unruly, that I am apt to involve myself
in scrapes when a woman is concerned. The last time I was there, I had an affair with Tom Trippit."
"Oh! I remember that!" cried Banter; "You lugged out before the ladies; and I commend you for
so doing, because you had an opportunity of showing your manhood without running any risk."
"Risk!" said the other with a fierce countenance, "d--n my blood! I fear no risks. I an't afraid
of lugging out against any man that wears a head, d-me! 'Tis well known that I have drawn blood
more than once, and lost some too; but what does that signify?" The player begged this champion
to employ him as his second the next time he intended to kill, for he wanted to see a man die
of a stab, that he might know how to act such an art the more naturally on the stage. "Die!"
replied the hero: "No, by G--! I know better things than to incur the verdict of a Middlesex
jury--I should look upon my fencing-master to be an ignorant son of a b--h, if he had not taught
me to prick any of my antagonist's body that I please to disable." "Oho!" cried Slyboot, "if
that be the case, I have a favour to ask. You must know I am employed to paint a Jesus on the
cross; and my purpose is to represent him at that point of time when the spear is thrust into
his side. Now I should be glad if you would, in my presence, pink some impertinent fellow into
convulsions, without endangering his life, that I may have an opportunity of taking a good
clever agony from nature: the doctor will direct you where to enter and how far to go, but
pray let it be as near the left side as possible." Wagtail, who took this proposal seriously,
observed, that it would be a very difficult matter to penetrate into the left side of the thorax
without hurting the heart, and in consequence killing the patient; but he believed it was possible
for a man of a very nice hand and exact knowledge of anatomy, to wound the diaphragma somewhere
about the skirts, which might induce a singultus, without being attended with death: that he
was ready to demonstrate the insertion of that muscle to Mr. Bragwell; but desired to have
no concern with the experiment, which might essentially prejudice his reputation, in case of
a miscarriage. Bragwell was as much imposed upon by the painter's waggery as the doctor, and
declined engaging in the affair, saying he held a very great regard for Mr. Slyboot, but had
laid it down as a maxim, never to fight except when his honour was engaged. A thousand jokes
of this kind were uttered; the wine circulated, supper was served in, we ate heartily, returned
to the bottle, Bragwell became noisy and troublesome, Banter grew more and more severe, Ranter
rehearsed, Slyboot made faces at the whole company, I sang French catches, and Chatter kissed
me with great affection; while the doctor, with a wofull countenance, sat silent like a disciple
of Pythagoras. At length, it was proposed by Bragwell, that we should scour the hundreds, sweat
the constable, maul the watch, and then reel soberly to bed.

While we deliberated upon this expedition, the waiter came into the room, and asked for Doctor
Wagtail: when he understood he was present, he told him there was a lady below to inquire for
him, at which message the physician started from his melancholy contemplation, and, with a
look of extreme confusion, assured the company he could not possibly be the person wanted,
for he had no connection with any lady whatever, and bade the drawer tell her so. "For shame!"
cried Banter; "would you be so impolite as to refuse a lady a hearing? perhaps she comes for
a consultation. It must be some extraordinary affair that brings a lady to a tavern at this
time of night. Mr. Ranter, pray do the doctor's base-mains to the lady, and squire her hither."
The player immediately staggered out, and returned, leading in with much ceremony, a tall strapping
wench, whose appearance proclaimed her occupation. We received her with the utmost solemnity,
and with a good deal of entreaty she was persuaded to sit, when a profound silence ensued,
during which she fixed her eyes, with a disconsolate look, upon the doctor, who was utterly
confounded at her behaviour, and returned her melancholy fourfold; at length, after a good
many piteous sighs, she wiped her eyes, and accosted him thus: "What! not one word of comfort?
Will nothing soften that stony heart of thine? Not all my tears! not all my affliction! not
the inevitable ruin thou hast brought upon me! Where are thy vows, thou faithless, perjured
man? Hast thou no honour--no conscience--no remorse for thy perfidious conduct towards me?
Answer me, wilt thou at last do me justice, or must I have recourse to heaven or hell for my
revenge?" If poor Wagtail was amazed before she spoke, what must his confusion be on hearing
this address! His natural paleness changed into a ghastly clay colour, his eyes rolled, his
lip trembled, and he answered in an accent not to be described, "Upon my word, honour, and
salvation, madam, you are actually mistaken in my person. I have a most particular veneration
for your sex, and, am actually incapable of injuring any lady in the smallest degree, madam;
besides, madam, to the best of my recollection, I never had the honour of seeing you before,
as I hope to be saved, madam!" "How, traitor!" cried she, "dost thou disown me then? Mistaken!
no, too well I know that fair bewitching face! too well I know that false enchanting tongue!
Alas! gentlemen, since the villain compels me by his unkindness, to expose myself and him,
know that this betrayer, under the specious pretence of honourable addresses, won my heart,
and taking advantage of his conquest, robbed me of my virgin treasure, and afterwards abandoned
me to my fate! I am now four months gone with child by him, turned out of doors by my relations,
and left a prey to misery and want! Yes, thou barbarian," said she, turning to Wagtail, "thou
tiger, thou succubus! too well thou knowest my situation. But I will tear out thy faithless
heart, and deliver the world from such a monster." So saying, she sprang forward at the doctor,
who with incredible agility, jumped over the table, and ran behind Bragwell, while the rest
of us endeavoured to appease the furious heroine. Although everybody in the company affected
the utmost surprise, I could easily perceive it was a scheme concerted among them to produce
diversion at the doctor's expense, and being under no concern about the consequence, I entered
into the confederacy, and enjoyed the distress of Wagtail, who with tears in his eyes begged
the protection of the company, declaring himself as innocent of the crime laid to his charge
as the foetus in utero; and hinting at the same time, that nature had not put it in his power
to be guilty of such a trespass. "Nature!" cried the lady, "there was no nature in the case;
he abused me by the help of charms and spells; else how is it possible that any woman could
have listened to the addresses of such a scarecrow? Were these owlish eyes made for ogling;
that carrion complexion to be admired; or that mouth, like a horse-shoe, to be kissed? No,
no, you owe your success to your philtres, to your drugs and incantations; and not to your
natural talents, which are, in every respect, mean and contemptible."

The doctor thought he had got an opportunity of vindicating himself effectually; and desired
the complainant to compose herself but for half-an-hour, in which he undertook to prove the
absurdity of believing in the power of incantations, which were only idle dreams of ignorance
and superstition. He accordingly pronounced a very learned discourse upon the nature of ideas,
the power and independence of the mind, the properties of stimulating medicines, the difference
between a proneness to venery, which many simples would create, and a passion limited to one
object, which can only be the result of sense and reflection; and concluded with a pathetic
remonstrance, setting forth his unhappiness in being persecuted with the resentment of a lady
whom he had never injured, nor even seen before that occasion, and whose faculties were, in
all likelihood, so much impaired by her misfortunes that an innocent person was in danger of
being ruined by her disorder. He had no sooner finished his harangue, than the forlorn princess
renewed her lamentations, and cautioned the company against his eloquence, which, she said,
was able to bias the most impartial bench in Christendom. Ranter advised him to espouse her
immediately, as the only means to save his reputation, and offered to accompany him to the
Fleet for that purpose; but Slyboot proposed that a father should be purchased for the child,
and a comfortable alimony settled on the mother. Ranter promised to adopt the infant gratis.
Wagtail was ready to worship him for his generosity, and, though he persisted in protesting
his innocence, condescended to everything rather than his unblemished character should be called
into question. The lady rejected the proposal, and insisted on matrimony. Bragwell took up
the cudgels for the doctor, and undertook to rid him of her importunity for half-a-guinea;
upon which Wagtail, with great eagerness, pulled out his purse, and put it into the hand of
his friend, who, taking half a piece out of it, gave it to the plaintiff, and bade her thank
God for her good fortune. When she had received this bounty, she affected to weep, and begged,
since the physician had renounced her, he would at least vouchsafe her a parting kiss; this
he was prevailed upon to grant with great reluctance, and went up with his usual solemnity
to salute her, when she laid hold of his cheek with her teeth, and held fast, while he roared
with anguish, to the unspeakable diversion of all present. When she thought proper to release
him, she dropped a low courtesy to the company, and quitted the room, leaving the doctor in
the utmost horror, not so much on account of the pain, as the apprehension of the consequence
of the bite; for, by this time, he was convinced of her being mad. Banter prescribed the actual
cautery, and put the poker in the fire to be heated, in order to sear the place. The player
was of opinion that Bragwell should scoop out the part affected with the point of his sword;
but the painter prevented both these dreadful operations by recommending a balsam he had in
his pocket, which never failed to cure the bite of a mad dog; so saying, he pulled out a small
bladder of black paint, with which he instantly anointed not only the sore, but the greatest
part of the patient's face, and left it in a frightful condition. In short, the poor creature
was so harassed with fear and vexation, that I pitied him extremely, and sent him home in a
chair, contrary to the inclination of everybody present.

This freedom of mine gave umbrage to Bragwell, who testified his displeasure by swearing a
few threats, without making any application; which, being perceived by Slyboot, who sat by
me, he, with a view of promoting a quarrel, whispered to me, that he thought Bragwell used
me very ill, but every man was the best judge of his own affairs. I answered aloud, that I
would neither suffer Mr. Bragwell nor him to use me ill with impunity; and that I stood in
no need of his counsel in regard to the regulation of my conduct. He thought proper to ask
a thousand pardons, and assure me he meant no offence; while Bragwell feigned himself asleep,
that he might not be obliged to take notice of what passed. But the player, who had more animal
spirits and less discretion than Slyboot, unwilling to let the affair rest where he had dropped
it, jogged Mr. Bragwell and told him softly that I had called him names, and threatened to
cudgel him. This particular I understood by his starting, up and crying, "Blood and wounds,
you lie! No man durst treat me so ignominiously. Mr. Random, did you call me names, and threaten
to drub me?" I denied the imputation, and proposed to punish the scoundrel who endeavoured
to foment disturbance in the company. Bragwell signified his approbation, and drew his sword;
I did the same, and accosted the actor in these words: "Lookee, Mr. Ranter; I know you possess
all the mimicry and mischievous qualities of an ape, because I have observed you put them all
in practice more than once to-night, on me and others; now I want to see if you resemble one
in nimbleness also; therefore, I desire you leap over this sword without hesitation." So saying,
I held it parallel to the horizon, at the distance of about three feet from the floor, and
called, "Once-twice-thrice--and away!" but, instead of complying with my demand, he snatched
his hat and hanger, and, assuming the looks, swagger, and phrase of Pistol, burst out into
the following exclamation, "Ha! must I then perform inglorious prank of sylvan ape in mountain
forest caught! Death rock me asleep, abridge my doleful days, and lay my head in fury's lap--Have
we not Hiren here?" This buffoonery did not answer his expectation, for, by this time, the
company was bent on seeing him in a new character. Mr. Banter desired me to hold my sword a
foot or two higher, that he might have the better opportunity of exerting himself. The painter
told him, if he performed well, he would recommend him as a vaulter to the proprietors of Sadler's
Wells; and Bragwell crying, "Leap for the King!" applied the point of his sword to the player's
posteriors with such success, that he sprang over in a trice, and, finding the door unguarded,
vanished in a twinkling; glad, no doubt, of having paid his share of the reckoning so easily.

It being now near two o'clock in the morning, we discharged the bill, and sallied out into
the street. The painter slunk away without taking his leave. Billy Chatter, being unable to
speak or stand, was sent to a bagnio; and Banter and I accompanied Bragwell to Moll King's
coffee-house, where after he had kicked half a dozen hungry whores, we left him asleep on a
bench, and directed our course towards Charing-cross, near which place both he and I lodged.

The natural dryness of my companion being overcome by liquor, he honoured me by the way with
many compliments and professions, of friendship, for which I made suitable acknowledgments,
and told him I thought myself happy in having, by my behaviour, removed the unfavourable opinion
he entertained of me at first sight. He was surprised at this declaration, and begged me to
explain myself; upon which I mentioned what I had overheard him say of me to Wagtail in the
coffee-house. He laughed, and made an apology for his freedom, assuring me, that my appearance
had very much prepossessed him in my favour; and what he said was only intended as a joke on
the doctor's solemnity. I was highly pleased at being undeceived in this particular, and not
a little proud of the good opinion of this wit, who shook me by the hand at parting, and promised
to meet me the next day at the ordinary.

CHAPTER XLVII

Strap communicates to me a conquest he had made of a Chandler's Widow--finds himself miserably
mistaken--I go to the Opera--admire Melinda--am cautioned by Banter--go to the Assembly at
Hampstead--dance with that young lady--receive an insolent message from Bragwell, whose mettle
is soon cooled--am in favour with my Mistress, whom I visit next day, and am bubbled out of
eighteen guineas at cards--Strap triumphs at my success, but is astonished at my expense--Banter
comes to my lodging, is very sarcastic at my expense, and borrows five guineas from me, as
a proof of his friendship

In the morning, before I got up, Strap came into my chamber, and, finding me awake, hemmed
several times, scratched his head, cast his eyes upon the ground, and, with a very foolish
kind of simper upon his face gave me to understand he had something to communicate. "By your
countenance," said I, "I expect to hear good tidings." "Indifferently," replied he, tittering,
"that is, hereafter as it shall be. You must know, I have some thoughts of altering my condition."
"What!" cried I, astonished, "a matrimonial scheme? O rare Strap! thou hast got the heels of
me at last." "N--no less, I assure you," said he, bursting into a laugh of self-approbation:
"a tallow chandler's widow that lives hard by, has taken a liking to me, a fine jolly dame,
as plump as a partridge. She has a well-furnished house, a brisk trade, and a good deal of
the ready. I may have her for the asking. She told a friend of mine, a brother footman, that
she would take me out of a stinking clout. But I refused to give my final answer, till I knew
your opinion of the matter." I congratulated Monsieur d'Estrapes upon his conquest, and approved
of the scheme, provided he could be assured of those circumstances of her fortune; but advised
him to do nothing rashly, and give me an opportunity of seeing the lady before matters should
be brought to a conclusion. He assured me he would do nothing without my consent and approbation,
and that very morning, while I was at breakfast, introduce his inamorata to my acquaintance.
She was a short thick woman, about the age of thirty-six, and had a particular prominence of
belly, which I perceived at first sight, not without some suspicion of foul play. I desired
her, however, to sit, and treated her with a dish of tea; the discourse turning on the good
qualities of Strap, whom I represented as a prodigy of sobriety, industry and virtue. When
she took her leave, he followed her to the door, and returned licking his lips, and asking
if I did not think she was a luscious creature. I made no mystery of my apprehension, but declared
my sentiments of her without reserve; at which he was not surprised, telling me he had observed
the same symptom, but was informed by his friend that she was only livergrown and would in
few months be as small in the waist as ever. "Yes," said I, "a few weeks, I believe, will do
the business. In short, Strap, it is my opinion, that you are egregiously imposed upon; and
that this friend is no other than a rascal who wants to palm his trull upon you for a wife,
that he may at once deliver himself from the importunities of the mother and the expense of
her bantling; for which reason I would not have you trust implicitly to the report he makes
of her wealth, which is inconsistent with his behaviour, nor run your head precipitately into
a noose, that you may afterwards wish exchanged for the hangman's." He seemed very much startled
at my insinuation, and promised to look twice before he leaped; saying, with some heat, "Odds,
if I find his intention is to betray me, we shall see which of us is the better man." My prediction
was verified in less than a fortnight, her great belly producing an infant, to the unspeakable
amazement of Strap, who was before this happened, inclinable to believe I had refined a little
too much in my penetration. His false friend disappeared; and a few days after an execution
was issued against her goods and household furniture, which were seized by the creditors.

Meanwhile I met my friend Banter at the ordinary, and in the evening went to the Opera with
him and Mr Chatter, who pointed out Melinda in one of the boxes, and offered to introduce me
to her, observing at the same time, that she was a reigning toast worth ten thousand pounds.
This piece of information made my heart bound with joy, and I discovered great eagerness to
accept the proposal; upon which he assured me I should dance with her at the next assembly,
if he had any influence in that quarter: so saying, he went round, spoke to her some minutes,
and, as I imagined, pointed at me; then returning, told me, to my inexpressible pleasure, that
I might depend upon what he had promised, for she was now engaged as my partner. Banter in
a whisper, gave me to understand that she was an incorrigible coquette, who would grant the
same favour to any young fellow in England of a tolerable appearance, merely to engage him
among the herd of her admirers, that she might have the pleasure of seeing them daily increase;
that she was of a cold insensible disposition, dead to every passion but vanity, and so blind
to merit, that he would lay any wager the wealthiest fool would carry her at last. I attributed
a good deal of this intelligence to the satirical turn of my friend, or resentment for having
himself suffered a rebuff from the lady in question, and, at any rate, trusted so much to my
own accomplishments as to believe no woman could resist the ardour of my addresses.

Full of this confidence I repaired to Hampstead in company with Billy Chatter, my Lord Hobble,
and Doctor Wagtail. There I saw a very brilliant assembly, before whom I had the honour to
walk a minuet with Melinda, who charmed me with her frank manner and easiness of behaviour.
Before the country dances began, I received a message by a person I did not know from Bragwell,
who was present, importing that nobody who knew him presumed to dance with Melinda while he
was there in person, that I would do well to relinquish her without noise, because he had a
mind to lead up a country dance with her. This extraordinary intimation, which was delivered
in the lady's hearing, did not at all discompose me, who, by this time, was pretty well acquainted
with the character of my rival. I therefore, without the least symptom of concern bade the
gentleman tell Mr. Bragwell, that since I was so happy as to obtain the lady's consent, I should
not be solicitous about his; and desired the bearer himself to bring me no such impertinent
messages for the future. Melinda, affected a sort of confusion, and pretended to wonder that
Mr. Bragwell should give himself such liberties with regard to her, who had no manner of connection
with the fellow. I laid hold of this opportunity to display my valour, and offered to call
him to an account for his insolence, a proposal which she absolutely refused, under pretence
of consulting my safety; though I could perceive, by the sparkling of her eyes, that she would
not have thought herself affronted by being the subject of a duel. I was by no means pleased
with this discovery of her thoughts, which not only argued the most unjustifiable vanity, but
likewise the most barbarous indifference; however, I was allured by her fortune, and resolved
to gratify her pride, in making her the occasion of a public quarrel between me and Bragwell,
who, I was pretty certain, would never drive matters to a dangerous extremity.

While we danced together, I observed this formidable rival at one end of the room, encircled
with a cluster of beaux, to whom he talked with great vehemence, casting many big looks at
me from time to time. I guessed the subject of his discourse, and as soon as I had handed my
partner to her seat, strutted up to the place where he stood, and, cocking my hat in his face,
demanded aloud, if he had anything to say to me. He answered with a sullen tone, "Nothing,
at present, sir;" and turned about upon his heel. "Well," said I, "you where I am to be found
at any time." His companions stared at one another, and I returned to the lady, whose features
brightened at my approach, and immediately a whisper ran through the whole room; after which
so many eyes were turned upon me that I was ready to sink with confusion. When the ball broke
up, I led her to her coach, and, like a true French gallant, would have got up behind it, in
order to protect her from violence on the road, but she absolutely refused my offer, and expressed
her concern that there was not an empty seat for me within the vehicle.

Next day, in the afternoon, I waited on her at her lodgings, by permission, in company with
Chatter, and was very civilly received by her mother, with whom she lived. There were a good
many fashionable people present, chiefly young fellows, and immediately after tea, a couple
of card tables were set, at one of which I had the honour to play with Melinda, who in less
than three hours, made shift to plunder me of eight guineas. I was well enough content to lose
a little money with a good grace, that I might have an opportunity in the meantime to say soft
things, which are still most welcome when attended with good luck; but I was by no means satisfied
of her fair play, a circumstance that shocked me not a little, and greatly impaired my opinion
of her disinterestedness and delicacy. However, I was resolved to profit by this behaviour,
and treat her in my turn with less ceremony; accordingly, I laid close siege to her, and, finding
her not at all disgusted with the gross incense I offered, that very night made a declaration
of love in plain terms. She received my addresses with great gaiety, and pretended to laugh
them off, but at the same time treated me with such particular complacency that I was persuaded
I had made a conquest of her heart, and concluded myself the happiest man alive. Elevated with
these flattering ideas, I sat down again to cards after supper, and with great cheerfulness
suffered myself to be cheated of ten guineas more.

It was late before I took my leave, after being favoured with a general invitation; and, when
I got into bed, the adventures of the day hindered me from sleeping. Sometimes I pleased myself
with the hopes of possessing a fine woman with ten thousand pounds; then I would ruminate on
the character I had heard of her from Banter, and compare it with the circumstances of her
conduct towards me, which seemed to bear too great a resemblance to the picture he had drawn.
This introduced a melancholy reflection on the expense I had undergone, and the smallness of
my funds to support it, which, by-the-by, were none of my own. In short, I found myself involved
in doubts and perplexities, that kept me awake the greatest part of the night.

In the morning, Strap, with whom I had not conversed for two days, presented himself with the
utensils for shaving me; upon which, I asked his opinion of the lady he had seen me conduct
to her coach at Hampstead. "Odds! she's a delicious creature!" cried he, "and, as I am informed,
a great fortune. I am sorry you did not insist on going home with her. I dare say, she would
not have refused your company; for she seems to be a good-humoured soul." "There's a time for
all things," said I, "you must know, Strap, I was in company with her till one o'clock this
morning." I had no sooner pronounced these words than he began to caper about the room, and
snap his fingers, crying in a transport, "The day's our own--the day's our own!" I gave him
to understand that his triumph was a little premature, and that I had more difficulties to
surmount than he was aware of; then I recounted to him the intelligence I had received from
Banter. At which he changed colour, shook his head, and observed there was no faith in woman.
I told him I was resolved to make a bold push notwithstanding, although I foresaw it would
lead me into a great expense; and bade him guess the sum I had lost last night at cards. He
scratched his chin, and protested his abhorrence of cards, the very name of which being mentioned,
made him sweat with vexation, as it recalled the money-dropper to his remembrance. "But, however,"
said he, "you have to do with other guess people now. Why, I suppose, if you had a bad run
last night, you would scarce come off for less than ten or twelve shilling." I was mortified
at this piece of simplicity, which I imagined, at that time, was all affected by way of reprimand
for my folly; and asked with some heat if he thought I had spent the evening in a cellar with
chairmen and bunters; giving him to know, at the same time, that my expense had amounted to
eighteen guineas.

It would require the pencil of Hogarth to express the astonishment and concern of Strap on
hearing this piece of news; the basin, in which he was preparing the lather for my chin, dropped
out of his hands, and he I remained some time immovable in that ludicrous attitude, with his
mouth open, and his eyes thrust forward considerably beyond their station; but, remembering
my disposition, which was touchy, and impatient of control, he smothered his chagrin, and attempted
to recollect himself. With this view he endeavoured to laugh, but in spite if his teeth, broke
out in a whimper, took up his wash-ball and pewter-pot, scrubbed my beard with the one, and
discharged the other upon my face. I took no notice of this confusion, but after he had fully
recovered himself, put him in mind of his right, and assured him of my readiness to surrender
my effects whenever he should think proper to demand them. He was nettled at my insinuation,
which he thought proceeded from my distrust of his friendship; and begged I would never talk
to him in that strain again, unless I had a mind to break his heart.

This good creature's unalterable friendship for me affected me with the most grateful sentiments,
and acted as a spur to my resolution of acquiring a fortune, that I might have it in my power
to manifest my generosity in my turn. For this purpose, I determined to bring matters to a
speedy conclusion with Melinda; well knowing that a few such nights as the last would effectually
incapacitate me from prosecuting that or any other advantageous amour.

While my meditation was busied in planning out my future conduct, Mr. Banter favoured me with
a visit, and after breakfast asked how I had passed the preceding evening. I answered I was
very agreeably entertained at a private house. "Yes," said he, with a sarcastic smile, "you
deserve something extraordinary for the price you paid." I was surprised at this remark, and
pretended ignorance of his meaning. "Come, come, Mr. Random," continued he, "you need not make
a mystery of it to me; the whole town has it. I wish that foolish affair between you and Bragwell
at Hampstead had been less public. It has set all the busybodies at work to find out your real
character and situation; and you cannot imagine what conjectures have already circulated at
your expense. One suspects you to be a Jesuit in disguise; another thinks you are an agent
from the Pretender; a third believes you to be an upstart gamester, because nobody knows anything
of your family or fortune; a fourth is of opinion that you are an Irish fortune-hunter." This
last hypothesis touched me so nearly that, to conceal my confusion, I was fain to interrupt
his detail, and damn the world for an envious meddling community, that would not suffer a gentleman
to live without molestation. He took no notice of this apostrophe, but went on. "For my own
part, I neither know nor desire to know who or what you are. This I am certain of, that few
people make a mystery of their origin or situation, who can boast of anything advantageous
in either; and my own opinion of the matter is that you have raised yourself, by your industry,
from nothing to the appearance you now maintain, and which you endeavour to support by some
matrimonial scheme." Here he fixed his eyes steadfastly upon me and perceiving my face covered
with blushes, told me, how he was confirmed in his opinion. "Look ye, Random," said he, "I
have divined your plan, and am confident it will never succeed. You are too honest and too
ignorant of the town to practise the necessary cheats of your profession, and detect the conspiracies
that will be formed against you. Besides, you are downright bashful. What the devil! set up
for a fortune hunter before you have conquered the sense of shame! Perhaps you are entitled
by your merit, and I believe you are, to a richer and a better wife than Melinda; but take
my word for it, she is not to be won at that rate;--or, if you are so lucky as to carry her,
between you and me, you may say, as Teague said, By my soul, I have gained a loss! She would
take care to spend her fortune in a twinkling, and soon make you sick of her extravagance."

I was alarmed by his discourse, while I resented the freedom of it, and expressed my disgust
by telling him, he was mistaken in my intentions, and desiring he would give me leave to regulate
my conduct according to the dictates of my own reason. He made no apology for the liberty he
had taken, and ascribed it to the warmth of his friendship for me; as an uncommon instance
of which he borrowed five guineas, assuring me there were very few people in the world who
whom he could so far favour with his confidence. I gave him the money, and professed myself
so well convinced of his sincerity, that he had no occasion to put it to such extraordinary
proofs for the future. "I thought," said he, "to have asked five pieces more, but hearing you
were bubbled of eighteen last night, I presumed you might be out of cash, and resolved to model
my demand accordingly." I could not help admiring the cavalier behaviour of this spark, of
whom I desired to know his reason for saying I was bubbled. He then gave me to understand,
that before he came to my lodgings, he had beat up Tom Tossle, who, being present, informed
him of the particulars, rehearsed all the fine things I said to Melinda, with which he proposed
to entertain the town, and among other circumstances, assured him my mistress cheated with
so little art, that nobody but a mere novice could be imposed upon.

The thoughts of becoming a subject of raillery for coxcombs, and losing my money to boot, stung
me to the quick; but I made a virtue of my indignation, and swore that no man should with impunity
either asperse the character of Melinda, or turn my behaviour into ridicule. He replied in
a dry manner, that I would find it a Herculean task to chastise everybody who should laugh
at my expense; and, as for the character of Melinda, he did not see how it could suffer by
what was laid to her charge; for that cheating at cards, far from being reckoned a blemish
among people of fashion, was looked upon as an honourable indication of superior genius and
address. "But let us waive this subject," said he, "and go to the coffee-house, in order to
make a party for dinner."

CHAPTER XLVIII

We repair to the coffee-house, where we overhear a curious dispute between Wagtail and Medlar,
which is referred to our decision--the Doctor gives an account of his experiment--Medlar is
roasted by Banter at the ordinary--the old gentleman's advice to me

Being as willing to drop the theme as he was to propose it, I accompanied him thither, where
we found Mr. Medlar and Dr. Wagtail disputing upon the word Custard, which the physician affirmed
should be spelt with a G, observing that it was derived from the Latin verb gustare, "to taste;"
but Medlar pleaded custom in behalf of C, observing, that, by the Doctor's rule, we ought to
change pudding into budding, because it is derived from the French word boudin; and in that
case why not retain the original orthography and pronunciation of all the foreign words we
have adopted, by which means our language would become a dissonant jargon without standard
or propriety? The controversy was referred to us; and Banter, notwithstanding his real opinion
to the contrary, decided it in favour of Wagtail; upon which the peevish annuitant arose, and
uttering the monosyllable pish! with great emphasis, removed to another table.

We then inquired of the doctor, what progress he had made in the experiment of distilling tinder-water;
and he told us he had been at all the glass-houses about town, but could find nobody who would
undertake to blow a retort large enough to hold the third part of the quantity prescribed;
but he intended to try the process on as much as would produce five drops, which would be sufficient
to prove the specific, and then he would make it a parliamentary affair; that he had already
purchased a considerable weight of rags, in reducing which to tinder, he had met with a misfortune,
which had obliged him to change his lodgings; for he had gathered them in a heap on the floor,
and set fire to them with a candle, on the supposition that the boards would sustain no damage,
because it is the nature of flame to ascend; but, by some very extraordinary accident, the
wood was invaded, and began to blaze with great violence, which disordered him so much, that
he had not the presence of mind enough to call for assistance, and the whole house must have
been consumed with him in the midst of it, had not the smoke that rolled out of the windows
in clouds alarmed the neighbourhood, and brought people to his succour: that he had lost a
pair of black velvet breeches and a tie-wig in the hurry, besides the expense of the rags,
which were rendered useless by the water used to quench the flame, and the damage of the floor,
which he was compelled to repair; that his landlord, believing him distracted, had insisted
on his quitting his apartment at a minute's warning, and he was put to incredible inconvenience;
but now he was settled in a very comfortable house, and had the use of a large paved yard for
preparing his tinder; so that he hoped in a very short time to reap the fruits of his labour.

After having congratulated the doctor on his prospect, and read the papers, we repaired to
an auction of pictures, where we entertained ourselves an hour or two; from thence we adjourned
to the Mall, and, after two or three turns, went back to dinner, Banter assuring us, that he
intended to roast Medlar at the ordinary; and, indeed, we were no sooner set than this cynic
began to execute his purpose, by telling the old gentleman that he looked extremely well, considering
the little sleep he had enjoyed last night. To this compliment Medlar made no reply, but by
a stare, accompanied with a significant grin; and Banter went on thus; "I don't know whether
most to admire the charity of your mind, or the vigour of your body. Upon my soul, Mr. Medlar,
you do generous things with the best taste of any man I know! You extend your compassion to
real objects, and exact only such returns as they are capable of making. You must know, gentlemen,"
said he, turning to the company, "I had been up most part of the night with a friend who is
ill of a fever, and, on my return home this morning, chanced to pass by a gin shop still open,
whence issued a confused sound of mirth and jollity: upon which, I popped in my head, and perceived
Mr. Medlar dancing bareheaded in the midst of ten or twenty ragged bunters, who rejoiced at
his expense. But indeed, Mr. Medlar, you should not sacrifice your constitution to your benevolence.
Consider, you grow old apace; and, therefore, have a reverend care of your health, which must
certainly be very much impaired by these nocturnal expeditions." The testy senior could no
longer contain himself, but cried hastily, "'Tis well known that your tongue is no slanderer."
"I think," said the other, "you might spare that observation, as you are very sensible, that
my tongue has done you signal service on many occasions. You may remember, that, when you made
your addresses to the fat widow who kept a public-house at Islington, there was a report spread
very much to the prejudice of your manhood, which coming to the ears of your mistress, you
were discarded immediately: and I brought matters to a reconciliation, by assuring her you
had three bastards at nurse in the country. How you ruined your own affair afterwards, it is
neither my business nor inclination to relate."

This anecdote, which had no other foundation than in Banter's own invention, afforded a good
deal of mirth to everybody present, and provoked Mr. Medlar beyond all sufferance; so that
he started up in a mighty passion, and, forgetting that his mouth was full, bespattered those
who sat next to him, while he discharged his indignation in a volley of oaths, and called Banter
insignificant puppy, impertinent jackanapes, and a hundred such appellations; telling the company
he had invented these false and malicious aspersions, because he would not lend him money to
squander away upon rooks and whores. "A very likely story," said Banter, "that I should attempt
to borrow money of a man who is obliged to practise a thousand shifts to make his weekly allowance
hold out till Saturday night. Sometimes he sleeps four-and-twenty hours at a stretch, by which
means he saves three meals, besides coffee-house expense. Sometimes he is fain to put up with
bread and cheese and small beer for dinner; and sometimes he regales on twopennyworth of ox
cheek in a cellar." "You are a lying miscreant!" cried Medlar, in an ecstacy of rage; "I can
always command money enough to pay your tailor's bill, which I am sure is no trifle; and I
have a good mind to give you a convincing proof of my circumstances, by prosecuting you for
defamation, sirrah." By this time the violence of his wrath had deprived him of his appetite,
and he sat silent, unable to swallow one mouthful, while his tormentor enjoyed his mortification,
and increased his chagrin, by advising him to lay in plentifully for his next day's fast.

Dinner being ended, we came down stairs to the coffee room, and Banter went away to keep an
appointment, saying, he supposed he should see Wagtail and me in the evening at the Bedford
Coffee-house. He was no sooner gone than the old gentleman took me aside, and said, he was
sorry to see me so intimate with that fellow, who was one of the most graceless rakes about
town, and had already wasted a good estate and constitution upon harlots; that he had been
the ruin of many a young man, by introducing them into debauched company, and setting a lewd
example of all manner of wickedness; and that, unless I were on my guard, he would strip me
in a short time both of my money and reputation. I thanked him for his information, and promised
to conduct myself accordingly, wishing, however, his caution had been a few hours more early,
by which means I might have saved five guineas. Notwithstanding this intelligence, I was inclinable
to impute some part of the charge to Medlar's revenge for the liberties taken with him at dinner;
and therefore, as soon as I could disengage myself, applied to Wagtail for his opinion of the
character in question, resolved to compare their accounts, allowing for the prejudice of each,
and to form my judgment upon both, without adhering strictly to either. The doctor assured
me, that he was a very pretty gentleman of family and fortune; a scholar, a wit, a critic,
and perfectly well acquainted with the town; that his honour and courage were unquestionable,
though some extravagances he had been guilty of, and his talents for satire had procured him
enemies, and made some people shy of his acquaintance. From these different sketches, I concluded
that Banter was a young fellow of some parts, who had spent his fortune, but retained his appetites,
and fallen out with the world, because he could not enjoy it to his wish.

I went to the Bedford Coffee-house in the evening, where I met my friends, from thence proceeded
to the play, and afterwards carried them home to my lodgings, where we supped in great good humour.

CHAPTER XLIX

I receive a Challenge--the Consequence of it--the Quarrel being made up, am put in Arrest by
the Care and Affection of Strap--but immediately released upon explaining my Affair--the Behaviour
of Mr. Oregan and his two Friends--I visit Melinda, whom I divert with an account of the Duel--propose
Marriage--she refers the Matter to her Mother, of whom I make a solemn Demand of her Daughter--the
old Lady's behaviour--I am discarded---resent their Disdain

When I was ready to go abroad next day, Strap brought me a letter, To Mr. Random, Esq., these;
which, upon opening, I found contained a challenge conceived in these very extraordinary terms:

    "Sir,--Whereas I am informed that you make love to Miss Melinda
    Goosetrap, this is to let you know that she is under promise of
    marriage to me; and that I am at this present waiting at the back
    of Montague House, with a pair of good pistols in my hand; and if
    you will keep your appointment, I will make your tongue confess
    (after the breath is out of your body) that you do not deserve her
    so well as
               Yours, etc.       Rourk Oregan."

I guessed, from the style and superscription of this billet, that my rival was a true Milesian,
and was not a little uneasy at the contents; especially that part, in which he asserted his
right to my mistress by promise, a circumstance I did not not know how to reconcile to her
good sense and penetration. However, this was no time for me to decline the defiance, because
the success of my addresses in a great measure depended upon my behaviour in that affair. I
therefore immediately loaded my pistols, and betook myself in a hackney coach to the place
appointed, where I found a tall raw-boned man, with a hard-featured countenance and black bushy
beard, walking by himself, wrapped up in a shabby green coat, over which his own hair descended
in leathern queue from his head, that was covered with a greasy hat trimmed with a tarnished
pointe d'Espagne. He had no sooner perceived me advancing than he pulled a pistol from his
bosom, and, presenting it at me, snapped it without the least preamble. Alarmed at this rude
salutation, I made a stand, and, before he could adjust his other piece, fired one of mine
at him, without doing any damage, By this time he was ready with his second, that flashed in
the pan without going off; upon which he called, with a true Tipperary cadence, "Fire away,
honey!" and began to hammer his flint with great deliberation. But I was resolved to make use
of the advantage fortune had given me, and therefore stepped up without throwing away my fire,
desiring him to ask his life, or prepare for another world; but this stout Hibernian refused
to condescend, and complained bitterly of my having quitted my ground before he could return
my shot: saying I ought to go back to my station, and let him have an equal chance with me.
I endeavoured to persuade him that I had given him a double chance already: and it was my business
to prevent him from enjoying a third; but now, since I had an opportunity, I demanded a parley,
and desired to know his condition and reason for calling me to the field, who, to the best
of my remembrance, far from having done him any injury, had never before seen him. He told
me that he was a gentleman of fortune, who had spent all he had, and, hearing that Melinda
had got ten thousand pounds, he intended to make himself master of that sum by espousing her,
and he was determined, in an honourable way, to cut the throats of all those who stood between
him and his hopes.

I then demanded to know the foundation of his hopes; and now that I had seen him, being more
and more astonished at the circumstance of the promise, desired that he would explain that
mystery. He gave me to understand, that he trusted entirely to his birth and personal merit;
that he had frequently written to Melinda, setting forth his claim and pretensions, but she
was never kind enough to send an answer, or even to admit him into her presence; and that the
promise he mentioned in his letter was made by his friend Mr. Gahagan, who assured him that
no woman could resist a man of his appearance. I could not forbear laughing to excess at the
simplicity of my rival, who did not seem to relish my mirth, but began to be very serious:
upon which I endeavoured to appease him, by giving him my word and honour that, far from prejudicing
his addresses to the lady, I would represent him to her in the most favourable light I could
with any regard to truth; but he must not be surprised if she should remain blind to his deserts,
for nothing was more capricious than a woman's mind, and the affection of that sex was seldom
purchased with virtue alone. That my declaration might have the better effect, I took notice
of his deshabille, and, professing sorrow at seeing a gentleman reduced, slipped two guineas
into his hand, at sight of which he threw away his pistols, and hugging me in his arms, cried,
"Arrah, by Jasus, now, you are the best friend I have met with these seven long years!" When
I had suffered some minutes in his embrace, he quitted me, and picking up his rusty arms, wished
the devil might burn him if ever he should give me any further trouble about womankind.

The quarrel being thus amicably composed, I begged leave to look at his pistols, which I found
so crazy and so foul, that I believe it was happy for him neither of them was discharged, for
one of them would certainly have split in the going off, and he would, in all probability,
have lost his hand in the explosion; but what gave me a lively idea of the man's character
was, to find, upon examination, that one of them had been loaded without being primed, and
the other primed without a charge.

While we walked home together, I expressed a desire of knowing my new friend's history; and
he informed me of his having served in the German army as a volunteer against the Turks; that
for his behaviour at the siege of Belgrade, he had been honoured with an ensign's commission,
and afterwards promoted to the rank of lieutenant, in which station it was his misfortune to
affront his captain, who challenged him to the field, and was killed in the duel, upon which
he was obliged to retreat; that he had been in England some years soliciting his friends for
provision in the British army; but being hitherto unsuccessful, was desired by Mr. Gahagan
to turn his thoughts to matrimony, and make his fortune by an advantageous match; in consequence
of which advice, he had made up to Melinda: and, having heard by means of an Irish footman
in the family, that I was her chief favourite, had called me out in hopes of removing by my
death the greatest obstruction to his desires; but now he was convinced of my honour and generosity,
he swore by the blessed Virgin, he would think of her no more, if there were not another woman
in the world. As a further proof of his veracity, which I did not at all doubt, he opened an
old iron snuff-box, and pulled out his commission in the Imperial army, and his captain's challenge,
which he preserved as testimonials of his character. I was so well convinced of this poor man's
honesty and courage, that I determined to speak in his behalf to some of my acquaintance, who
might recommend his case to the consideration of those who could provide for him; and in the
meantime to accommodate him with a few clothes, by which his appearance would be much mended,
and himself enabled to renew his solicitations in person.

As we walked along conversing socially together, we were met by a file of musketeers, and Strap
at their head, who no sooner approached than, with a frantic look, he cried, "Seize them! In
the name of God seize them!" We were accordingly surrounded, and I put in arrest by the corporal,
who was commanding officer; but Captain Oregan disengaged himself, and ran with such speed
towards Tottenham Court Road that he was out of sight in a moment. When my arms were delivered
up, and myself secured, Strap became a little more composed, and asked pardon for the liberty
he had taken, which he hoped I would excuse, as it proceeded from his affection. He then told
me that, suspecting the letter (which by the by was brought by the author himself) contained
something extraordinary, he had peeped through the keyhole, and seen me load my pistols; upon
which he ran down to Whitehall, and applied to the officer on guard for a party to put me in
arrest, but before he returned, I was gone in a coach; that he had inquired which way I went,
and, having heard that duels were commonly fought at the back of Montague House, he conducted
the guard to this place, where he thanked God for having found me safe and sound. I gave him
to understand that I forgave his officious concern for once, but cautioned him in pretty severe
terms for making me the subject of idle conversation for the future; then turning to the corporal,
thanked him for his care, and gave him a crown to drink with his men, assuring him that the
rencontre was over long before he came up, and everything compromised, as he might have observed
by our behaviour; as a farther proof of which, he would find upon examination that one of my
pistols had been discharged: but this civil person, without giving himself or me any farther
trouble, received the bounty with a thousand bows and acknowledgments, and, returning the pistols,
released me immediately.

He was not gone a hundred yards, when my friend Oregan came up in order to rescue me, with
two tatterdemalions, whom he had engaged for that purpose about the purlieus of St. Giles's.
One of them was armed with a musket that wanted a lock, and another with a rusty broadsword,
but their dress surpassed all description. When he understood I was already free he made an
apology for his abrupt departure, and introduced me to his two companions: First, to Counsellor
Fitzclabber, who, he told me, was then employed in compiling a history of the kings of Minster,
from Irish manuscripts; and then to his friend Mr. Gahagan, who was a profound philosopher
and politician, and had projected many excellent schemes for the good of his country. But it
seems these literati had been very ill rewarded for their ingenious labours; for, between them
both, there was but one shirt, and half a pair of breeches. I thanked them very kindly for
their readiness to assist me, and, having offered my service in my turn, bade them good morrow,
desiring Oregan to accompany me to my lodgings, where he was fitted with decent clothes from
my wardrobe, so much to his satisfaction, that he swore eternal gratitude and friendship to
me, and, at my request, recounted all the adventures of his life.

In the afternoon, I waited on Melinda, who received me with great kindness and familiarity,
and laughed excessively at my adventure with the Irishman, to whose wishes she was no stranger,
having more than a dozen letters in her possession, which he had written to her on the subject
of love, and which, for my entertainment, she submitted to my perusal. Having made ourselves
merry at the expense of this poor admirer, I seized the opportunity of her mother's going out
of the room, and introduced my own passion, which I recommended to her with all the ardour
and eloquence I was master of. I flattered, sighed, swore, entreated, and acted a thousand
extravagancies, in hopes of making some impression on her heart; but she heard everything I
said without discovering the least emotion; and other company came in before she would vouchsafe
one serious reply. After tea, the cards were brought in according to custom, and it was my
good fortune to have Melinda for my partner; by which means, instead of losing, I came off
with five guineas clear gain.

I soon became acquainted with a good many people of fashion, and spent my time in the modish
diversions of the town, such as plays, operas, masquerades, drums, assemblies, and muppet-shows;
chiefly in company with Melinda, whom I cultivated with all the eagerness and address that
my prospect could inspire, and my education afford. I spared neither my person nor my purse
to gratify her vanity and pride; my rivals were intimidated, and indeed outshone; and, after
all, I began to fear that the dear creature had not a heart to lose.

At last, finding myself unable to support the expense of this amour much longer, I was determined
to bring the matter to a crisis; and one evening, while we were together by ourselves, complained
of her indifference, described the tortures of suspense to a love-sick mind, and pressed her
to disclose her sentiments of matrimony and me with such earnestness, that she could not, with
all her art, shift the subject, but was obliged to come to an eclaircissement. She told me,
with a careless air, that she had no objection to my person, and if I could satisfy her mother
in other particulars, I should not find her averse to the match; but she was resolved to do
nothing in such a momentous concern without the advice and consent of her parent. This was
no very agreeable declaration to me, whose aim had been to win her inclination first, and then
secure my conquest by a private marriage, to which I flattered myself she would express no
reluctance. That I might not, however, desert my cause before it was desperate, I waited on
her mother; and, with great formality, demanded the daughter in marriage. The good lady, who
was a very notable woman, behaved with great state and civility; thanked me for the honour
I intended her family; and said, she did not doubt that I was in all respects qualified to
make a woman happy; but it concerned her as a parent anxious about the welfare of her child,
to inquire into the particulars of my fortune, and know what settlement I proposed to make.
To this intimation, which would have utterly disconcerted me if I had not expected it, I replied,
without hesitation that, though my fortune was very small, I was a gentleman by birth and education,
would maintain her daughter in the sphere of a gentlewoman, and settle her own dowry on her
and her heirs for ever. This careful matron did not seem to relish my proposal, but observed,
with a demure countenance, that there was no necessity for settling that upon her child which
was her own already; however, if I pleased, her lawyer should confer with mine upon the matter;
and, in the meantime, she desired I would favour her with a perusal of my rent-roll. Notwithstanding
the vexation I was under, I could scarce forbear laughing in her face at the mention of my
rent-roll, which was indeed a severe piece of satire upon my pretensions. I frankly owned I
had no landed estate; and told her that I could not exactly specify the sum I was master of,
until I had regulated my affairs, which were at present in some disorder; but that I would
take an opportunity of satisfying her on that head very soon.

It was not long before I took my leave, and returned to my lodgings in a very melancholy mood,
persuaded that I had nothing more to expect from that quarter. I was confirmed in this opinion
next day, when I went back with a view of explaining myself more fully to the old gentlewoman;
and was told by the footman that his ladies were not at home, although I had seen Melinda through
the blinds at a parlour window, as I went up to the door. Incensed at this affront, I quitted
the door without saying one word, and as I repassed the parlour, bowed to Miss, who still remained
in the same situation, securely screened, as she thought, from my view.

This disappointment gave me more uneasiness on Strap's account than my own, for I was in no
danger of dying for love of Melinda; on the contrary, the remembrance of my charming Narcissa
was a continual check upon my conscience during the whole course of my addresses; and perhaps
contributed to the bad success of my scheme, by controlling my raptures and condemning my design.

There was a necessity for informing my companion of everything that happened to me and I performed
this piece of duty in an affected passion, swearing I would be his pack-horse no longer, and
desiring him to take the management of his affairs into his own hands. This finesse had the
desired effect, for, instead of grumbling over my miscarriage, Strap was frightened at the
passion I feigned, and begged me, for the love of God, to be appeased; observing that, although
we had suffered a great loss, it was not irreparable; and if Fortune frowned to day, she might
perhaps smile to-morrow. I pretended to acquiesce in his remarks, praise his equanimity, and
promised to improve my misfortune. He, on the other hand, pretended to be perfectly well satisfied
with my conduct, and conjured me to follow the dictates of my own reflection; but, in spite
of all his affectation, I could perceive his inward affliction, and his visage sensibly increased
in longitude from that day.

CHAPTER L

I long to be revenged on Melinda--apply to Banter for his Assistance--he contrives a scheme
for that purpose--which is put in Execution with great Success--I make an Attempt upon the
Heart of Miss Gripewell, but am disappointed--grow melancholy at my Disappointment, and have
recourse to the Bottle--receive a Billet-doux--am ravished with the Contents--find myself involved
in Intrigue, which I imagined would make my Fortune--am confounded at my mistake, which banishes
all Thoughts of Matrimony

In the meantime, my attention was wholly engrossed in search of another mistress, and the desire
of being revenged on Melinda, in both which schemes I was very much assisted by Billy Chatter,
who was such a necessary creature among the ladies, that in all private dances he engaged the
men. To him therefore I applied, desiring he would introduce me to a partner of some figure,
at the next private assembly, for the sake of a frolic, the intention of which I would afterwards
communicate. Billy, who had heard something of a difference between Melinda and me, immediately
smoked part of my design, and, thinking I only wanted to alarm her jealousy a little, promised
to gratify my desire, by matching me with a partner worth thirty thousand pounds, whom the
ladies of this end of the town had lately taken under their management and protection. Upon
further inquiry, I found this person's name was Miss Biddy Gripewell; that her father, who
had been a pawnbroker, died intestate, by which means all his substance descended to his daughter,
who was so little a favourite that, could the old man have prevailed with his own rapacious
disposition to part with as much money as would have paid the expense of a will, she would
not have inherited the sixth part of his fortune; that during his life, far from being educated
in a way suitable to such great expectations, she was obliged to live like a servant wench,
and do the most menial offices in the family. But his funeral was no sooner performed, than
she assumed the fine lady, and found so many people of both sexes to flatter, caress, and instruct
her, that, for want of discretion and experience, she was grown insufferably vain and arrogant,
and pretended to no less than a duke or earl at least for her husband; that she had the misfortune
to be neglected by the English quality, but a certain poor Scottish lord was then making interest
to be introduced to her acquaintance. In the meantime, she was fallen into the hands of a notable
lady, who had already disposed of her to a lieutenant of foot, a distant relation of her ladyship's,
though Miss as yet knew nothing of the affair; and lastly that if I proposed to dance with
her, I must give him leave to represent me as a knight, or foreign count at least. I was ravished
at this piece of information, and consented for one night, to personate a French marquis, that
I might the easier fulfil my revenge.

Having made the appointment with Chatter I went to Banter's lodgings, as I had by this time
conceived a great opinion of his penetration and knowledge; and, after I had enjoined secrecy,
told him every circumstance of my disgrace with Melinda, and imparted the plan I had projected
to mortify that proud coquette, desiring his advice in proving, and assistance in executing
the scheme. Nothing could be more agreeable to his misanthropical temper than an account of
her behaviour and my resentment: he applauded my resolution, and proposed that I should not
only provide myself with a proper partner, but also procure such a one for Miss Goosetrap,
as should infallibly entail upon her the ridicule of all her acquaintance. For this purpose
he mentioned his barber who he said, was an exceeding coxcomb lately come from Paris, whose
absurd affectation and grimace, would easily pass upon her for the sprightly politesse of a
gentleman improved by travel. I hugged him for this hint; and he assured me it would be no
difficult matter to make him believe, that Melinda, having seen him by accident, was captivated
by his appearance, and begged for his acquaintance. He actually engaged him on this pretence,
and painted his good fortune in such colours that the poor shaver was quite beside himself
with joy. He was immediately fitted with a tawdry suit of clothes belonging to Banter, and
by him recommended to Chatter as a very pretty fellow, just returned from his travels. Master
Billy, who acted as a gentleman usher to a great many of the fair sex in and about town, undertook
at once to bespeak Melinda in his behalf; and everything happened according to my wish.

At the time appointed I appeared dressed to the best advantage; and, in the character of a
Marquis, had the honour of opening the ball with the rich heiress, who attracted the eyes of
the whole company by the prodigious number of jewels with which she was adorned. Among others
I perceived Melinda, who could not more conceal her envy than astonishment at my success; her
curiosity was still more flagrant and tormenting, for she had never seen Miss Gripewell before;
and Chatter, who alone could give her any satisfaction on that head, was engaged in conversation
at the other end of the room. I observed her impatience, and exulted in her chagrin; and after
my partner was set, took the opportunity of passing by her to make a slight bow without stopping,
which completed my triumph and her indignation. She changed colour, bridled up, assumed an
air of disdain, and flirted her fan with such a fury, that it went to pieces in a moment, to
the no small entertainment of those who sat near and observed her.

At length the metamorphosed barber took her out, and acted his part with such ridiculous extravagance
that the mirth of the whole company was excited at his expense, and his partner was so much
ashamed that, before the country dances began, she retired in great confusion, under pretence
of being taken suddenly ill, and was followed by her gallant, who no doubt imagined her indisposition
was nothing but love; and laid hold of the occasion of conducting her home, to comfort her,
with an assurance of his entertaining a reciprocal passion. They were no sooner gone than an
inquisitive whisper of "Who is he?" ran round the room; and Chatter could give them no other
intelligence about him than that he was a man of fortune just returned from his travels. I,
who alone was acquainted with his real quality, affected ignorance well knowing that female
curiosity would not rest satisfied with such a general account, and that the discovery would
proceed with a better grace from anybody than me.

Meanwhile, I was tempted by the richness of the prize to practise upon Miss Gripewell's heart,
but soon found it too well fortified with pride and indifference to yield to any efforts in
my own character, and I neither would nor could preserve the title I had borrowed longer than
that night.

As I expected, everything came to light next day. The barber, in pure simplicity of heart,
detected himself to Melinda, and discovered the foundation of his hopes; she sickened at the
affront, and was ashamed to show her face in public for many weeks after this accident. Poor
Chatter found it impossible to justify himself to her satisfaction; was in utter disgrace with
Miss Gripewell, for having imposed me upon her as a nobleman; and suffered very much in his
character and influence among the ladies in general.

Finding my finances diminished more than one-half, and my project as little advanced as on
the first day of my arrival in town, I began to despair of my success, and grew melancholy
at the prospect of approaching want. To dispel the horrors of this fiend I had recourse to
the bottle, and kept more company than ever. I became particularly attached to the playhouse,
conversed with the actors behind the scenes, grew acquainted with a body of templars, and in
a short time commenced a professed wit and critic. Indeed, I may say, without vanity, that
I was much better qualified than any one of my companions, who were, generally speaking, of
all the creatures I ever conversed with, the most ignorant and assuming. By means of these
avocations I got the better of care, and learned to separate my ideas in such a manner that,
whenever I was attacked by a gloomy reflection, I could shove it aside, and call in some agreeable
reverie to my assistance. This was not the case with Strap, who practised a thousand shifts
to conceal the sorrow that preyed upon his carcass, and reduced him to the resemblance of a
mere skeleton.

While I thus posted, in a thoughtless manner, towards poverty, I one day received, by the penny
post, a letter written in a woman's hand, containing a great many high-flown compliments, warm
protestations of love, couched in a very poetical style, an earnest desire of knowing whether
or not my heart was engaged, by leaving an answer at a certain place, directed to R. B., and
the whole subscribed "Your incognita." I was transported with joy on reading the contents of
this billet-doux, which I admired as a masterpiece of tenderness and elegance, and was already
up to my ears in love with the author, whom my imagination represented as a lady of fortune,
in the bloom of youth and beauty. Elevated with this conjecture, I went to work, and exhausted
my invention in composing an answer suitable to the sublimity of her style and the ardour of
her sentiments. I expressed my admiration of her wit in terms the most hyperbolical, and while
I acknowledged myself unworthy of her regard, declared myself enamoured of her understanding;
and in the most pathetic manner implored the honour of an interview. Having finished this performance,
and communicated it to Strap, who skipped about for joy, I dispatched him with it to the place
appointed, which was the house of a milliner not far from Bond Street, and desired him to keep
watch near the door for some time, that he might discover the person who should call for it.
In less than an hour he returned with a joyful countenance, and told me that, soon after he
had delivered the letter, a chairman was called, to whom it was given, with directions to carry
it to the house of a rich gentleman in the neighbourhood, whither he (Strap) followed him,
and saw him put it into the hands of a waiting-woman, who paid the messenger, and shut the
door; that, upon inquiry at an alehouse hard by, where he called for a pint of beer, he understood
the gentleman to whom the house belonged had an only daughter, very handsome, who would inherit
his whole estate; and who certainly was the author of the billet I had received. I was of the
same opinion, and, hugging myself in the happy prospect, dressed immediately, and passed in
great state the house that contained my unknown admirer. Nor was my vanity disappointed; for
I perceived a beautiful young creature standing at one of the windows of the dining-room, who,
I imagined, observed me with more than common curiosity. That I might indulge her view, and
at the same time feast my own, I affected to stop, and gave orders to Strap, in the street,
just opposite to her station, by which means I had an opportunity of seeing her more distinctly,
and of congratulating myself on having made a conquest of so much perfection. In a few moments
she retired, and I betook myself to the ordinary in a rapture of hope, which deprived me of
my appetite for that meal, and sent me home in the evening to indulge my contemplation.

Early next day, I was favoured with another epistle from my unknown admirer, signifying her
unutterable joy at the receipt of mine, which, while it made a tender of my heart, convinced
her of the value of it. Above all things, she professed her extreme pleasure in finding me
so much attached to her understanding, a circumstance that not only flattered her in the most
sensible part, but at the same time argued my own sagacity. As for the interview I desired,
she assured me, that I could not be more eager for such an occasion than she; but she must
not only sacrifice little more to decorum, but be satisfied of my honourable intentions, before
she could grant that request. Meanwhile she gave me to understand that, although she might
owe some deference to the opinion of certain persons, she was resolved, in an affair that so
nearly concerned her happiness, to consult her own inclination, preferable to the advice of
the whole world; especially as she was urged to such condescension by no consideration of fortune,
what she depended upon being her own without restriction or control. Struck with admiration
at the philosophy and self-denial of my mistress, who seemed insensible of the beauty she possessed,
and in particular ravished with that piece of intelligence by which I learned her fortune was
independent; I resumed the pen, launched out into encomiums on the dignity of her sentiments,
affected to undervalue the charms of external beauty, pretended to ground my passion on the
qualities of her mind, complained of her rigour in sacrificing my repose to an overscrupulous
regard to decorum, and declared the purity of my designs in the most solemn and pathetic vows.
This performance being sealed and directed, was sent to the place appointed by Strap, who,
that we might be still the more confirmed in our belief, renewed his watch, and in a little
time brought back the same information as before, with this addition, that Miss Sparkle (the
name of my correspondent), looking out at the window, no sooner saw the messenger arrive, than
she shut the casement in a sort of beautiful confusion, and disappeared, eager no doubt to
hear from the dear object of her love.

My doubts now vanished, the long-expected port appeared, and I looked upon myself as perfectly
secure of that happiness I had been in quest of so long. After dinner, I sauntered in company
with Dr. Wagtail, to that part of the town in which my inamorata lived; and, as he was a mere
register, inquired of him into the name, character, and fortune of everybody who possessed
a good house in the streets through which we passed. When it came to his turn to mention Sir
John Sparkle, he represented him as a man of an immense estate and narrow disposition, who
mewed up his only child, a fine young lady, from the conversation of mankind, under the strict
watch and inspection of an old governante, who was either so honest, envious, or insatiable,
that nobody had been as yet able to make her a friend, or get access to her charge, though
numbers attempted it every day; not so much on account of her expectations from her father,
who, being a widower, might marry again and have sons, as for a fortune of twelve thousand
pounds left her by an uncle, of which she could not be deprived. This piece of news, exactly
tallying with the last part of the letter I had been honoured with in the morning, had such
an effect on me, that any man except Wagtail might have observed my emotion; but his attention
was too much engrossed by the contemplation of his own importance to suffer him to be affected
with the deportment of any other body, unless it happened to be so particular that he could
not help taking notice of it.

When I had disengaged myself from him, whose conversation grew insipid to me, I went home,
and made Strap acquainted with the fruit of my researches. This faithful squire was almost
choked with transport, and even wept with joy; but whether on account of himself or me, I shall
not pretend to determine. Next day a third billet-doux was brought to me, containing many expressions
of tenderness, mingled with some affecting doubts about the artifice of man, the inconstancy
of youth, and the jealousy often attending the most sincere passion; withal desiring I would
excuse her, if she should try me a little longer, before she declared herself beyond the power
of retracting. These interesting scruples added fuel to my flame and impatience to my hope;
I redoubled my complaints of her indifference, and pressed her to an assignation with such
fervent entreaties, that in a few days she consented to meet me at the house of that milliner
who had forwarded all my letters. During the interval between the date of her promise and the
hour of appointment, my pride soared beyond all reason and description; I lost all remembrance
of the gentle Narcissa, and my thoughts were wholly employed in planning triumphs over the
malice and contempt of the world.

At length the happy hour arrived. I flew to the place of rendezvous, and was conducted into
an apartment, where I had not waited ten minutes, when I heard the rustling of silk, and the
sound of feet ascending the stairs; my heart took the alarm, and beat quick; my cheeks glowed,
my nerves thrilled, and my knees shook with ecstacy! I perceived the door opening, saw a gold
brocade petticoat advance, and sprang forward to embrace my charmer. Heaven and earth! how
shall I paint my situation, when I found Miss Sparkle converted into a wrinkled hag turned
of seventy! I was struck dumb with amazement, and petrified with horror! This ancient Urganda,
perceived my disorder, and, approaching with a languishing air, seized my hand, asking in a
squeaking tone, if I was indisposed. Her monstrous affectation completed the disgust I had
conceived for her at her first appearance, and it was a long time before I could command myself
so much as to behave with common civility: at length, however, I recollected myself, and pronounced
an apology for my behaviour, which I said proceeded from a dizziness that seized me all of
a sudden. My hoary Dulcinea, who, no doubt, had been alarmed at my confusion, no sooner learned
the cause to which I now ascribed it, than she discovered her joy in a thousand amorous coquetries,
and assumed the sprightly airs of a girl of sixteen. One while she ogled me with her dim eyes,
quenched in rheum; then, as if she was ashamed of that freedom, she affected to look down,
blush, and play with her fan; then toss her head that I might not perceive a palsy that shook
it, ask some childish questions with a lisping accent, giggle and grin with her mouth shut
to conceal the ravage of time upon her teeth, leer upon me again, sigh piteously, fling herself
about in her chair to show her agility, and act a great many more absurdities that youth and
beauty can alone excuse. Shocked as I was at my disappointment, my disposition was incapable
of affronting any person who loved me; I therefore endeavoured to put a good face to the matter
for the present, resolved to drop the whole affair as soon as I should get clear of her company;
with this view, I uttered some civil things, and in particular desired to know the name and
condition of the lady who had honoured me so much. She told me her name was Withers, that she
lived with Sir John Sparkle in quality of governess to his only daughter, in which situation
she had picked up a comfortable sufficiency to make her easy for life; that she had the pleasure
of seeing me at church, where my appearance and deportment made such an impression upon her
heart, that she could enjoy no ease until she had inquired into my character, which she found
so amiable in all respects, that she yielded to the violence of her inclination, and ventured
to declare her passion with too little regard perhaps to the decorum of her sex; but she hoped
I would forgive a trespass of which I myself was in some measure the cause, and impute her
intrusion to the irresistible dictates of love. No decayed rake ever swallowed a bolus with
more reluctance than I felt in making a reply suitable to this compliment, when, instead of
the jewel, I found the crazy casket only in my power; and yet my hopes began to revive a little,
when I considered, that, by carrying on the appearance of an intrigue with the duenna, I might
possibly obtain access to her charge. Encouraged by this suggestion, my temper grew more serene,
my reserve wore off, I talked en cavalier, and even made love to this antiquated coquette,
who seemed extremely happy in her adorer, and spread all her allurements to make her imagined
conquest more secure. The good woman of the house treated us with tea and sweetmeats, and afterwards
withdrew, like a civil experienced matron as she was.

Left thus to our mutual endearments, Miss Withers (for she was still a maiden) began to talk
of matrimony, and expressed so much impatience in all her behaviour that, had she been fifty
years younger, I might possibly have gratified her longing without having recourse to the church;
but this step my virtue as well as interest forbade. When the inclinations of an old maid settle
upon a young fellow, he is persecuted with her addresses; but, should he once grant her the
favour, he will never be able to disentangle himself from her importunities and reproaches.
It was my business to defer the ceremony as long as possible, under the most specious pretences,
with a view of becoming acquainted with Miss Sparkle in the meantime; and I did not despair
of success, when I considered, that in the course of our correspondence, I should I all probability
be invited to visit my mistress in her own apartment, and by these means have an opportunity
of conversing with her charming ward. Pleased with this prospect, my heart dilated with joy;
I talked in raptures to the state governante, and kissed her shrivelled hand with great devotion,
She was so much transported with her good fortune, that she could not contain her ecstacy,
but flew upon me like a tigress, and pressed her skinny lips to mine; when (as it was no doubt
concerted by her evil genius) a dose of garlic she had swallowed that morning, to dispel wind,
I suppose, began to operate with such a sudden explosion, that human nature, circumstanced
as I was, could not endure the shock with any degree of temper. I lost all patience and reflection,
flung away from her in an instant, snatched my hat and cane, and ran downstairs as if the devil
had me in pursuit, and could scarcely retain the convulsion of my bowels, which were grievously
offended by the perfume that assaulted me. Strap, who waited my return with impatience, seeing
me arrive in the utmost disorder, stood motionless with apprehension, and durst not inquire
into the cause.

After I had washed my mouth, more than once, and recruited my spirits with a glass of wine,
I recounted to him every particular of what had happened; to which he made no other reply for
some time than lifting up his eyes, clasping his hands, and uttering a hollow groan. At length
he observed, in a melancholy tone, that it was a thousand pities my organs were so delicate
as to be offended with the smell of garlic. "Ah! God help us," said he, "'tis not the steams
of garlic, no, nor of something else, that would give me the least uneasiness--see what it
is to be a cobler's son!" I replied hastily, "I wish then you would go and retrieve my miscarriage."
At this suggestion he started, forced a smile, and left the room, shaking his head. Whether
the old gentlewoman resented my abrupt departure so much that her love changed into disdain,
or was ashamed to see me on account of her infirmity, I know not; but I was never troubled
again with her passion.

CHAPTER LI

I cultivate an Acquaintance with two Noblemen--am introduced to earl Strutwell--his kind Promise
and Invitation--the Behaviour of his Porter and Lacquey--he receives me with an Appearance
of uncommon Affection--undertakes to speak in my Behalf to the Minister--informs me of his
Success, and wishes me Joy--introduces a Conversation about Fetronius Arbiter--falls in Love
with my Watch, which I press upon him--I make a present of a Diamond Ring to Lord Straddle--impart
my good Fortune to Strap and Banter, who disabuses me, to my utter Mortification

Baffled hitherto in my matrimonial schemes, I began to question my talents for the science
of fortune-hunting, and to bend my thoughts towards some employment under the government. With
the view of procuring which, I cultivated the acquaintance of Lords Straddle and Swillpot,
whose fathers were men of interest at court. I found these young noblemen as open to my advances
as I could desire; I accompanied them in their midnight rambles, and often dined with them
at taverns, where I had the honour of paying the reckoning.

I one day took the opportunity, while I was loaded with protestations of friendship, to disclose
my desire of being settled in some sinecure, and to solicit their influence in my behalf. Swillpot,
squeezing my hand, said, I might depend upon his service by G--. The other swore that no man
would be more proud than he to run my errands. Encouraged by these declarations, I ventured
to express an inclination to be introduced to their fathers, who were able to do my business
at once. Swillpot frankly owned he had not spoken to his father these three years; and Straddle
assured me, his father, having lately disobliged the minister by subscribing his name to a
protest in the house of peers, was thereby rendered incapable of serving his friends at present;
but he undertook to make me acquainted with Earl Strutwell, who was hand and glove with a certain
person who ruled the roast. This offer I embraced with many acknowledgments, and plied him
so closely, in spite of a thousand evasions, that he found himself under a necessity of keeping
his word, and actually carried me to the levee of this great man, where he left me in a crowd
of fellow-dependents, and was ushered to a particular closet audience; from whence, in a few
minutes, he returned with his lordship, who took me by the hand, assured me he would do me
all the service he could, and desired to see me often. I was charmed with my reception, and,
although I had heard that a courtier's promise is not to be depended upon, I thought I discovered
so much sweetness of temper and candour in this earl's countenance, that I did not doubt of
finding my account in his protection. I resolved therefore to profit by this permission, and
waited on him next audience day, when I was favoured with a particular smile, squeeze of the
hand, and a whisper, signifying that he wanted half-an-hour's conversation with me in private,
when he should be disengaged, and for that purpose desired me to come and drink a dish of chocolate
with him to-morrow morning.

This invitation, which did not a little flatter my vanity and expectation, I took care to observe,
and went to his lordship's house at the time appointed. Having rapped at the gate, the porter
unbolted and kept it half open, placing himself in the gap, like soldiers in the broach, to
dispute my passage. I asked if his lord was stirring? He answered with a surly aspect, "No."
"At what hour does he commonly rise?" said I. "Sometimes sooner, sometimes later," said he,
closing the door upon me by degrees. I then told him I was come by his lordship's own appointment,
to which intimation this Cerberus replied, "I have received no orders about the matter," and
was upon the point of shutting me out, when I recollected myself all of a sudden, and slipping
a crown into his hand, begged as a favour that he would inquire, and let me know whether or
not the earl was up. The grim janitor relented at the touch of my money, which he took with
all the indifference of a taxgatherer, and showed me into a parlour, where, he said, I might
amuse myself till such time as his lord should be awake. I had not sat ten minutes in this
place, when a footman entered, and, without speaking, started at me; I interpreted this piece
of his behaviour into, "Pray, sir, what is your business?" and asked the same question I had
put to the porter, when I accosted him first. The lacquey made the same reply, and disappeared
before I could get any further intelligence. In a little time he returned, on pretence of poking
the fire, and looked at me again with great earnestness; upon which I began to perceive his
meaning, and, tipping him with half-a-crown, desired he would be so good as to fall upon some
method of letting the earl know that I was in the house. He made a low bow, said, "Yes, sir,"
and vanished. This bounty was not thrown away, for in an instant he came back, and conducted
me to a chamber, where I was received with great kindness and familiarity by his lordship,
whom I found just risen, in his morning-gown, and slippers. After breakfast, he entered into
a particular conversation with me about my travels, the remarks I had made abroad, and examined
me to the full extent of my understanding. My answers seemed to please him very much, he frequently
squeezed my hand, and, looking at me with a singular complacency in his countenance, bade me
depend upon his good offices with the ministry in my behalf. "Young men of your qualifications,"
said he, "ought to be cherished by every administration. For my own part, I see so little merit
in the world, that I have laid it down as a maxim, to encourage the least appearance of genius
and virtue to the utmost of my power: you have a great deal of both; and will not fail of making
a figure one day, if I am not mistaken; but you must lay your account with mounting by gradual
steps to the summit of your fortune. Rome was not built in a day. As you understand the languages
perfectly well, how would you like to cross the sea as secretary to an embassy?" I assured
his lordship, with great eagerness, that nothing could be more agreeable to my inclination:
upon which he bade me make myself easy, my business was done, for he had a place of that kind
in his view. This piece of generosity affected me so much, that I was unable for some time
to express my gratitude, which at length broke out in acknowledgments of my own unworthiness,
and encomiums on his benevolence. I could not even help shedding tears at the goodness of this
noble lord, who no sooner perceived them than he caught me in his arms, and hugged and kissed
me with a seemingly paternal affection. Confounded at this uncommon instance of fondness for
a stranger, I remained a few moments silent and ashamed; then rose and took my leave, after
he had assured me that he would speak to the minister in my favour that very day; and desired
that I would not for the future give myself the trouble of attending at his levee, but come
at the same hour every day, when he should be at leisure, that is, three times a week.

Though my hopes were now very sanguine, I determined to conceal my prospect from everybody,
even from Strap, until I should be more certain of success: and in the meantime give my patron
no respite from my solicitations. When I renewed my visit, I found the street-door opened to
me as if by enchantment; but in my passage towards the presence-room, I was met by the valet-de-chambre,
who cast some furious looks at me the meaning of which I could not comprehend. The earl saluted
me at entrance with a tender embrace, and wished me joy of his success with the Premier, who,
he said, had preferred his recommendation to that of two other noblemen very urgent in behalf
of their respective friends, and absolutely promised that I should go to a certain foreign
court in quality of secretary to an ambassador and plenipotentiary who was to set out in a
few weeks an affair of vast importance to the nation. I was thunderstruck with my good fortune,
and could make no other reply than kneel and attempt to kiss my benefactor's hand, which submission
he would not permit; but, raising me up, pressed me to his breast with surprising emotion,
and told me he had now taken upon himself the care of making my fortune. What enhanced the
value of the benefit still the more, was his making light of the favour, and shifting the conversation
to another subject.

Among other topics of discourse, that of the Belles Lettres was introduced, upon which his
lordship held forth with great taste and erudition and discovered an intimate knowledge of
the authors of antiquity, "Here's a book," said he, taking one from his bosom, "written with
great elegance and spirit; and, though the subject may give offence to some narrow-minded people,
the author will always be held in esteem by every person of wit and learning." So saying, he
put into my hand Petronius Arbiter, and asked my opinion of his wit and manner. I told him,
that, in my opinion, he wrote with great ease and vivacity, but was withal so lewd and indecent
that he ought to find no quarter or protection among people of morals and taste. "I own," replied
the earl, "that his taste in love is generally decried, and indeed condemned by our laws; but
perhaps that may be more owing to prejudice and misapprehension than to true reason and deliberation.
The best man among the ancients is said to have entertained that passion; one of the wisest
of their legislators has permitted the indulgence of it in his commonwealth; the most celebrated
poets have not scrupled to avow it. At this day it prevails not only over all the East, but
in most parts of Europe; in our own country, it gains ground apace, and in all probability
will become in a short time a more, fashionable vice than simple fornication. Indeed there
is something to be said in vindication of it; for, notwithstanding the severity of the law
against offenders in this way, it must be confessed that the practice of this passion is unattended
with that curse and burthen upon society which proceeds from a race of miserable and deserted
bastards, who are either murdered by their parents, deserted to the utmost want and wretchedness,
or bred up to prey upon the commonwealth: and it likewise prevents the debauchery of many a
young maiden, and the prostitution of honest men's wives; not to mention the consideration
of health, which is much less liable to be impaired in the gratification of this appetite,
than in the exercise of common venery, which, by ruining the constitutions of our young men,
has produced a puny progeny that degenerates from generation to generation. Nay, I have been
told, that there is another motive perhaps more powerful than all these, that induces people
to cultivate this inclination; namely, the exquisite pleasure attending its success."

From this discourse I began to be apprehensive that his lordship, finding I had travelled,
was afraid I might have been infected with this spurious and sordid desire abroad, and took
this method of sounding my sentiments on the subject. Fired at this supposed suspicion, I argued
against it with great warmth, as an appetite unnatural, absurd, and of pernicious consequence;
and declared my utter detestation and abhorrence of it in these lines of the satirist:--

    Eternal infamy the wretch confound
    Who planted first that vice on British ground!
    A vice! That spite of nature and sense reigns,
    And poisons genial love, and manhood stains.

The earl smiled at my indignation, and told me he was glad to find my opinion of the matter
so conformable to his own, and that what he had advanced was only to provoke me to an answer,
with which he professed himself perfectly well pleased. After I had enjoyed a long audience,
I happened to look at my watch, in order to regulate my motions by it; and his lordship, observing
the chased case, desired to see the device, and examine the exception, which he approved with
some expressions of admiration. Considering the obligations I lay under to his lordship, I
thought there could not be a fitter opportunity than the present to manifest, in some shape,
my gratitude; I therefore begged he would do me the honour to accept of the watch as a small
testimony of the sense I had of his lordship's generosity; but, he refused it in a peremptory
manner, and said he was sorry I should entertain such a mercenary opinion of him; observing
at the same time, that it was the most beautiful piece of workmanship he had ever seen, and
desiring to know where he could have such another. I begged a thousand pardons for the freedom
I had taken, which I hoped he would impute to nothing else than the highest veneration for
his person--told him, that, as it came to my hand by accident in France, I could give him no
information about the maker, for there was no name on the inside; and once more humbly entreated
that he would indulge me so far as to use it for my sake. He was still positive in refusing
it; but was pleased to thank me for my generous offer, saying, it was a present that no nobleman
need be ashamed of receiving: though he was resolved to show his disinterestedness with regard
to me, for whom he had conceived a particular friendship; and insisted (if I were willing to
part with the watch) upon knowing what it had cost, that he might at least indemnify me, by
refunding the money. On the other hand, I assured his lordship that I should look upon it as
an uncommon mark of distinction, if he would take it without further question; and, rather
than disoblige me, he was at last persuaded to put it in his pocket, to my no small satisfaction,
who took my leave immediately, after having received a kind squeeze, and an injunction to depend
upon his promise.

Buoyed up with this reception, my heart opened; I gave away a guinea, among the lacqueys, who
escorted me to the door, flew to the lodgings of Lord Straddle, upon whom I forced my diamond
ring as an acknowledgment for the great service he had done me, and from thence hied me home,
with an intent of sharing my happiness with honest Strap. I determined, however, to heighten
his pleasure, by depressing his spirits at first, and then bringing in good news with double
relish. For this purpose, I affected the appearance of disappointment and chagrin, and told
him in an abrupt manner that I had lost the watch and diamond. Poor Hugh, who had been already
harassed into a consumption by intelligence of this sort, no sooner heard these words, than,
unable to contain himself, he cried, with distraction in his looks, "God in heaven forbid!"
I could carry on the farce no longer; but, laughing in his face, told him everything that had
passed, as above recited. His features were immediately unbended, and the transition was so
affecting, that he wept with joy, calling my Lord Strutwell by the appellations of Jewel, Phoenix,
Rara avis; and praising God, that there was still some virtue left among our nobility. Our
mutual congratulations being over, we gave way to our imagination, and anticipated our happiness
by prosecuting our success through the different steps of promotion, till I arrived at the
rank of a prime minister, and he to that of my first secretary.

