"That's the Chancellor of the Exchequer's duty," said WILFRID LAWSON; "GOSCHEN ought to go
and lend a hand."

"Of course, now they're at the Bar they can order what they please," said TANNER. Well the
SPEAKER didn't hear him. Later, on eve of final division, he offered another remark in louder
tone. SPEAKER thundered down upon him like a tornado, and TANNER quiet for rest of sitting.

Business done.--Cambrian Directors admonished for Breach of Privilege.

Tuesday, April 12.--House adjourns to-day for Easter Holidays; good many adjourned after Friday's
Sitting; some waited to hear JOKIM bringing in his Budget last night. Few left to-day to wind
up the business. HUGHES, gallant Colonel who represents Woolwich, here a few minutes ago. But
he's gone too. "Sometimes," he said, with a far-away smile, "they call me 'the Woolwich Infant.'
If I am such a very big gun, perhaps the best thing I can do is to go off."

I follow his example.

Business done.--Adjourned for Easter Holidays.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LEGEND OF THE MUTTON BONE.

(BY OUR NEWLY-MARRIED POETESS.)

  When the world is full of flowers and of butterflies at play,
  I could sit beneath the roses eating chocolates all day;
  But my heart is very heavy as I ponder with dismay
        On the Mutton Bone a-lying in the Larder!

  For GEORGE has squandered sixpence on a telegram from town,
  To say that he has come across "that dear old chappie--BROWNE,"
  And to dine with us this evening he means to bring him down--
        And the Mutton Bone is lying in the Larder!

  I have just been down to see it, and my courage sinks a-new,
  Though Cook has kindly promised me her very best to do--
  Which means that she'll convert into an appetising stew
        The Mutton Bone a-lying in the Larder.

  But I suddenly remember, with a blush of rosy pink,
  That Cook--alas! is given to the frequent use of drink,
  And if she once gets muddled up--perhaps she'll never think
        Of the Mutton Bone a-lying in the Larder!

         *       *       *       *       *

  As the western sun is gilding all the heather of the moor,
  Down the basement stairs I'm creeping--till a widely open door
  Shows me Cook in heavy slumber on her cherished kitchen floor--
        And the Mutton Bone is lying in the Larder!

  O GEORGE, there'll be no dinner, dear, for you and BROWNE to-day!
  I picture to myself the pretty words that you will say--
  And I seize my guinea bonnet--and I wander far away
        From the Mutton Bone a-lying in the Larder!

       *       *       *       *       *

MOTTO FOR A SOAP CO.--"Nothing like Lather."

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTICE.--Rejected Communications or Contributions, whether MS., Printed Matter, Drawings, or
Pictures of any description, will in no case be returned, not even when accompanied by a Stamped
and Addressed Envelope, Cover, or Wrapper. To this rule there will be no exception.