[14] Accordingly Hystaspas went off and got under arms, while the bodyguard galloped to the
spot. But before they reached the scouts, some one met them with his squires, the man who had
been sent out as a spy, the guardian of the lady from Susa, Araspas himself. [15] When the
news reached Cyrus, he sprang up from his seat, went to meet him himself, and clasped his hand,
but the others, who of course knew nothing, were utterly dumbfounded, until Cyrus said:

"Gentlemen, the best of our friends has come back to us. It is high time that all men should
know what he has done. It was not through any baseness, or any weakness, or any fear of me,
that he left us; it was because I sent him to be my messenger, to learn the enemy's doings
and bring us word. [16] Araspas, I have not forgotten what I promised you, I will repay you,
we will all repay you. For, gentlemen, it is only just that all of you should pay him honour.
Good and true I call him who risked himself for our good, and took upon himself a reproach
that was heavy to bear."

[17] At that all crowded round Araspas and took him by the hand and made him welcome. Then
Cyrus spoke again:

"Enough, my friends, Araspas has news for us, and it is time to hear it. Tell us your tale,
Araspas, keep back nothing of the truth, and do not make out the power of the enemy less than
it really is. It is far better that we should find it smaller than we looked for rather than
strong beyond our expectations." [18] "Well," began Araspas, "in order to learn their numbers,
I managed to be present at the marshalling of their troops." "Then you can tell us," said Cyrus,
"not only their numbers but their disposition in the field." "That I can," answered Araspas,
"and also how they propose to fight." "Good," said Cyrus, "but first let us hear their numbers
in brief." [19] "Well," he answered, "they are drawn up thirty deep, infantry and cavalry alike,
all except the Egyptians, and they cover about five miles; for I was at great pains," he added,
"to find out how much ground they occupied."

[20] "And the Egyptians?" Cyrus said, "how are they drawn up? I noticed you said, 'all except
the Egyptians.'"

"The Egyptians," he answered, "are drawn up in companies of ten thousand, under their own officers,
a hundred deep, and a hundred broad: that, they insisted, was their usual formation at home.
Croesus, however, was very loth to let them have their own way in this: he wished to outflank
you as much as possible." "Why?" Cyrus asked, "what was his object?" "To encircle you, I imagine,
with his wings." "He had better take care," said Cyrus, "or his circle may find itself in the
centre. [21] But now you have told us what we most needed to know, and you, gentlemen," said
he to the officers, "on leaving this meeting, you will look to your weapons and your harness.
It often happens that the lack of some little thing makes man or horse or chariot useless.
To-morrow morning early, while I am offering sacrifice, do you take your breakfast and give
your steeds their provender, so that when the moment comes to strike you may not be found wanting.
And then you, Araspas, must hold the right wing in the position it has now, and the rest of
you who command a thousand men must do the same with your divisions: it is no time to be changing
horses when the race is being run; and you will send word to the brigadiers and captains under
you to draw up the phalanx with each company two deep." (Now a company consisted of four-and-twenty
men.)

[22] Then one of the officers, a captain of ten thousand, said:

"Do you think, Cyrus, that with so shallow a depth we can stand against their tremendous phalanx?"

"But do you suppose," rejoined he, "that any phalanx so deep that the rear-ranks cannot close
with the enemy could do much either for friend or foe? [23] I myself," he added, "would rather
this heavy infantry of theirs were drawn up, not a hundred, but ten thousand deep: we should
have all the fewer to fight. Whereas with the depth that I propose, I believe we shall not
waste a man: every part of our army will work with every other. [24] I will post the javelin-men
behind the cuirassiers, and the archers behind them: it would be absurd to place in the van
troops who admit that they are not made for hand-to-hand fighting; but with the cuirassiers
thrown in front of them they will stand firm enough, and harass the enemy over the heads of
our own men with their arrows and their darts. And every stroke that falls on the enemy means
so much relief to our friends. [25] In the very rear of all I will post our reserve. A house
is useless without a foundation as well as a roof, and our phalanx will be no use unless it
has a rear-guard and a van, and both of them good. [26] You," he added, "will draw up the ranks
to suit these orders, and you who command the targeteers will follow with your companies in
the same depth, and you who command the archers will follow the targeteers. [27] Gentlemen
of the reserve, you will hold your men in the rear, and pass the word down to your own subordinates
to watch the men in front, cheer on those who do their duty, threaten him who plays the coward,
and if any man show signs of treachery, see that he dies the death. It is for those in the
van to hearten those behind them by word and deed; it is for you, the reserve, to make the
cowards dread you more than the foe. [28] You know your work, and you will do it. Euphratus,"
he added, turning to the officer in command of the artillery, "see that the waggons with the
towers keep as close to the phalanx as possible. [29] And you, Daouchus, bring up the whole
of your baggage-train under cover of the towers and make your squires punish severely any man
who breaks the line. [30] You, Carouchas, keep the women's carriages close behind the baggage-train.
This long line of followers should give an impression of vast numbers, allow our own men opportunity
for ambuscades, and force the enemy, if he try to surround us, to widen his circuit, and the
wider he makes it the weaker he will be. [31] That, then, is your business; and you, gentlemen,
Artaozus and Artagersas, each of you take your thousand foot and guard the baggage. [32] And
you, Pharnouchus and Asiadatas, neither of you must lead your thousand horse into the fighting-line,
you must get them under arms by themselves behind the carriages: and then come to me with the
other officers as fully-equipt as if you were to be the first to fight. [53] You, sir, who
command the camel-corps will take up your post behind the carriages and look for further orders
to Artagersas. [34] Officers of the war-chariots, you will draw lots among yourselves, and
he on whom the lot falls will bring his hundred chariots in front of the fighting-line, while
the other two centuries will support our flanks on the right and left."

[35] Such were the dispositions made by Cyrus; but Abradatas, the lord of Susa, cried:

"Cyrus, let me, I pray you, volunteer for the post in front."

[36] And Cyrus, struck with admiration for the man, took him by the hand, and turning to the
Persians in command of the other centuries said:

"Perhaps, gentlemen, you will allow this?"

But they answered that it was hard to resign the post of honour, and so they all drew lots,
and the lot fell on Abradatas, and his post was face to face with the Egyptians. Then the officers
left the council and carried out the orders given, and took their evening meal and posted the
pickets and went to rest.

