They parted hastily, the common consequence of all lengthy argument, and the aristocrat repaired
to his club, smoking a cigar to soothe his ruffled feelings, while the democrat also turned
on his heel, and went to address the British public in Hyde Park. Queen Mab, however, had heard
enough of social problems for one day, and she did not follow him. The Owl took her, instead,
to Westminster Abbey, and offered explanations after the manner of a verger.

'This is our museum of 'dead celebrities,' he said. 'Here lie our great men--poets, soldiers,
artists, and statesmen. When the British public feels elevated and sublime it comes here to
look at the tombstones, and it says: "These are my great men: they worked for me. I bought
them: I paid for them!" And it turns away with tears in its eyes.'

'And while they are alive?' asked Mab.

'That is rather a long subject,' replied the Owl.

'In the first place, they set up a great man, like a target, to shoot at and fight over, and
find out whether he is really a great man or only a "lunatic ritualist," like General Gordon,
in the view of Thoughtful persons. It takes them some time to decide: sometimes they never
do decide till he has gone to his reward, if even then. It is an admirable quality in him,
always, not to mind being shot at. But when the British public has really made up its mind
that a man is a great man, and that however low they rate him at market value he is sure to
be above the average, they sing a psalm of thanksgiving, and they cry, "Where is his coffin?
Let us drive nails into the coffin of this great man! Let us show our magnanimity, our respect
for the higher life, our reverence for the lofty soul! Give us the hammer." Then they begin.
It is an imposing ceremony, and lasts during the lifetime of the great man, whoever he happens
to be. He may be a literary great man, a poet, perhaps a Laureate. This type, according to
the notions of the British public, requires a great quantity of nails, and every class of society
almost brings them to his coffin. The young lady authors come, many troops of them, all conscious
of greatness in their own souls, and all having made it the dream of their lives to turn their
souls inside out for the benefit of a really great man. Surely, they think, there must be in
the heart of him a natural affinity for the details of their inner lives. They give him the
details of their inner lives: they also bring with them hammer and nails. There is nerve in
those delicate fingers, energy in those sympathetic souls: the number of nails they contrive
to hammer in is astonishing.

'Then the theologians come, with a doctrinal hammer and many nails, the lineal descendants
of the nail that Jael drove into the head of Sisera because he fought against the Israelites.
They have found out that there is a want of sound sectarian teaching in the works of the poet,
and they say that in the interests of theology they must drive a nail in. They drive it: they
know how to drive nails, some of the theologians. Good sound crushing, rending, comfortable
nails of doctrine--none of your airy latitudinarian tin-tacks. Then come the critics: they
have been brought up to it. They have all manner of nails--nails with broad heads, and narrow
heads, and brass heads, and no heads, but all with points. If a critic ever should drive in
a nail without a point he would feel everlastingly disgraced, but he never does: he sharpens
them on the premises. He can always find a place for another nail, till by-and-by the coffin
is quite covered, and then the great man is thankful to rest in it. Then the British public
sings more psalms.

