  [1] The epitaph of Conrad is as follows:

       «Anno domini MCCLXXXXIX kal. Augusti obiit Conradus
       secundus de Lichtenberg natus, Argentinensis episcopus,
       hic sepultus. Qui omnibus bonis condicionibus, quæ in
       homine mundiali debent concurrere, eminebat; nec sibi
       visus similis est in illis. Sedit autem annis XXV et
       mensibus sex. Orate pro eo.»

The first chapel built in the Cathedral was Saint-Lawrence's, next to the North portal of the
transept. It was the oldest parish in the town and diocese of Strasburg; the vicar of Saint-Lawrence
was the first archpriest of the diocese and at the same time grand-penitentiary of the Cathedral.
This chapel, decayed with time, was rebuilt after the plans of master James of Landshut, who
died in 1495, and was completed in 1505; when in the course of time it became too small for
the parish, it was transferred in 1698 into the neighbouring chapel of Saint-Martin, which
had been built in 1420 and then assumed the name of Saint-Lawrence's chapel that it retained
ever since. Among the sepulchral monuments it contains, is seen that of Mr. de la Bâtie, in
his live time commander of Strasburg. In this chapel is the entrance to the vaults, where to
this day the bishops' mortal remains are deposited.

The chapel opposite the latter, on the right side of the church, is dedicated to saint Catharine;
it was erected in the year 1331 by bishop Berthold of Bucheck who is interred in it. It was
newly arched in 1542 and formerly contained the holy tomb. The entrances both into this and
the chapel of Saint-Lawrence are decorated with several old statues; in Saint-Catharine's chapel
is the tomb of Conrad Bock, a nobleman of Strasburg, who died in 1480; this work is remarkable
for the manner in which the numerous figures that surround the bed of the dying man, are grouped
together.

The sepulchral stones that served as flag-stones or pavement in the interior of this large
building, have long ago been removed. Besides the sepulchral monuments and inscriptions already
mentioned we shall note the epitaphs of Erwin of Steinbach, of Husa his wife, and of his son
John, at the lower part of the buttress in the little yard behind Saint John's chapel[1]; also
the inscription to the memory of Conrad Gürtler, who bequeathed to the chapter of the Cathedral
his house, a large building in the rue du Dôme; this inscription is opposite that of Geiler
of Kaysersberg; finally, in one of the vestries is the epitaph, in german verses, of the celebrated
printer John Mentelin of Schlestadt.

  [1] Anno domini MCCCXVI. XII Kal. Augustii obiit Domina
  Husa uxor magistri Erwini. Anno domini MCCCXVIII. XVI Kal.
  Februarii obiit magister Erwinus gubernator fabrice ecclessie
  Argentinensis. Anno domini MCCCXXXVIII. XV Kal. Aprilis obiit
  magister Johanni (sic) filius Erwini magistri operi huius
  ecclesie.--There was formerly on that spot a burial ground; it
  is very likely that Erwin and his family were buried there. When
  some years ago, they were digging a waste-well for the lightning
  conductor, they discovered an old coffin of stone, broken and
  filled with earth and bones. All these remains with the exception
  of some fragments taken away by some curious amateurs, were
  deposited in a vault.

