
Another feature of railway travel in Paraguay--for a foreigner a sensation--is to observe a
woman clad in the Arcadian simplicity of a single garment enter a car and take a seat opposite
you or alongside of you with the most unconstrained air imaginable.

The train on its way to Paraguari passes Trinidad and many other stations. The station-houses
are all small structures covered with tile roofs. At Luque, a village where the passengers
stop for refreshments, the women of the place flock at the windows and offer for sale embroideries
of their own invention worked on tulle or on a special kind of netting, while the venders of
lunches appear, not with the traditional fried oysters, fried chickens or sandwiches of our
own favored land, but with bottles of fresh milk and chiapa, a kind of bread made from manioc,
among the ingredients of which are starch and eggs, and for which Luque is famous. The engineer
of the train, an Englishman, is a person who is as important in his way as is the Brazilian
minister in his. At Luque he descends from his locomotive to chat with a friend on the platform.
Time--or what would be "time" elsewhere--is up, but our Englishman continues to talk, notwithstanding
that after the utterance of impatient cries the passengers leave the cars in wrath to crowd
around him and overwhelm him with abusive words. An admirable representative of English phlegm,
he finishes his conversation at his ease, looks at his watch, climbs in a leisurely way to
his position on the engine and puts the train in motion. There is no danger of collision with
any other train, however, for this train is the only one on the line. It leaves Asuncion every
morning, moving at an average rate of fifteen miles an hour, and arrives at Paraguari some
time during the day, at the will of the engineer. Returning from Paraguari the same day, it
reaches Asuncion, remarks M. Forgues, when it pleases Heaven that it shall do so.

The scenery along the road is beautiful, but the country is almost a desert. Around the stations
are groups of dwellings of varied appearance, the most solidly built of which are connected
with farms that belonged to the late President Lopez. At times appear palm trees, the feathery
leaves of which mingle with beautiful effect with the pale or dark foliage of an exuberant
vegetation. Lopez had established telegraphic communication between the mouth of the Paraguay
and Paraguari, but the line having been broken between the latter terminus and a place called
Cerro Leon, and nobody having been sufficiently interested in it to have it repaired, it now
stops at Cerro Leon, the only telegraphic wire in the country, as the Asuncion and Paraguari
Railroad is the only railroad.

As the train approaches its destination the passengers see in the distance the three cerros
of Paraguari. These isolated sugar-loaf-shaped hills called cerros, covered with verdure, are
a marked feature of Paraguayan scenery. They rise from the flat plains, and although their
isolated situations impart to them an appearance of great height, they are rarely more than
four hundred feet above the level of the plain. Paraguari comprises fifty or sixty houses worthy
of the appellation, built around a square. In the outskirts are numerous mud-huts, all well
populated with women and children. Its inhabitants number about three thousand, and in its
quality as terminus of an unfinished railroad it has that flavor of desperadoism which usually
attaches to positions of that kind. Here gather malefactors, generally of foreign birth, from
Asuncion and elsewhere--refugees from the central authority and the metropolitan police--who
are more free in Paraguari to prey on whomsoever chance may throw in their way. Of the sixty
houses, twelve are tiendas, shops in which are sold at retail English cotton goods, Hamburg
gins, etc., in exchange for the products of the country--hides, tobacco, maté and other commodities.

The Paraguayan is an inveterate gambler, and in Paraguari two at least of the houses are devoted
to public play. They are crowded nightly, and often the stakes amount to five hundred or a
thousand francs. Quarrels frequently arise over the play, and then the knife is brought into
requisition, but the affrays are due more to the presence of the Italian, Argentine and Brazilian
adventurers who flock there than to the Paraguayans, who are not, naturally, a quarrelsome
race. On the night of his arrival, M. Forgues, with revolver in belt and accompanied by his
Swiss friend, walks through the village. The tiendas are lighted up, but the other houses are
in darkness. They look in on the gamblers. The dingy room is partially illuminated by a petroleum
lamp which hangs from the ceiling and casts its rays on groups of men with hang-dog countenances
seated or standing around a long table, smoking pipes and playing at cards for silver coin,
or else engaged in a certain game played on a billiard-table, in which a handful of small balls
is thrown on the table by the players, the end to be attained being to cause as many of the
balls as possible to enter the pockets. Then M. Forgues and his companion leave the scene of
the gambling orgie and look on another phase of life in Paraguari after dark. Not far distant
is a lighted stable-lantern on the ground: around it, with a confused medly of ponchos and
white skirts flying in the air, goes on the merry dance to the sound of an organ's whining
notes. This is all that can be seen from where they stand, for the faces of the dancers, too
dark to be distinguishable in the night, are invisible.

The village square is a kind of permanent fair-ground filled with diminutive booths, each one
composed of four posts stuck in the ground and upholding a bit of cloth not much larger than
a hand-kerchief, under which the hucksters, women and children, sit as under a tent. There
is a multitude of sellers, and a pitiful lack of goods to be sold. One woman, with her four
children seated near her, offers six eggs to the passer-by as her little store of merchandise:
another booth is presided over by two women and three children, and a dozen ears of corn constitute
their stock. There is a sad suggestion of poverty about all this which is very depressing.
The day before the arrival of M. Forgues in the place an enterprising baker, the first who
had ever set foot in Paraguari, began the making and selling of wheat bread. Everybody deserted
his customary manioc and bought a loaf of the good fellow, who rubbed his hands with delight
at the success of his speculation. The next day, not satisfied with a legitimate profit, he
raised the price of his loaves. Human nature is the same all over the world, and the speculator
found his bread left on his hands. Nobody would pay his price, and everybody returned to manioc.

From Paraguari our traveler's course next led him toward Villa Rica, a thriving town situated
still farther in the interior, and near the Cordillera of Caaguazu. He sets out accompanied
by his Swiss acquaintance. The journey is made in two days and on horseback. Their route in
the beginning lies across a small mountain-range, and then through a piece of thick woods bearing
an evil reputation as the home of footpads. But the two pass through in safety, for the robbers
are either asleep or absent from their haunts. Reaching the head-waters of the Yuqueri, which
empties into the Canabe, a tributary of the Paraguay, they skirt the heights of Angostura,
where Lopez, after the evacuation of Humaita, planted his batteries, and which he made his
final strategic point. Near by, on the right bank of the Canabe, is the field of Las Lomas
Valentinas, where the Paraguayan president fought his last great battle. So far, the route
had been through an almost unpeopled solitude. In the evening they reach Ibitimi, a village
built, as are all the Paraguayan hamlets, in the shape of a square, with its little church
in the centre. Here the ravages of war are painfully apparent. Many of the houses have gone
to ruin, dismantled piecemeal by passers-by, their owners never having come back from the battlefield
to reoccupy them. The surrounding country is charming, and, seated on one side, M. Forgues
sketches a cart drawn by oxen which goes by slowly with the declining sun shining on its leather
top. An eight-year-old boy of the village, whose attire is limited strictly to a necklace of
black seeds, approaches him, looks over his shoulder, and reads aloud the word which he writes
under his sketch: "Ibitimi." Returning from his little sketching excursion to where his companion
is awaiting him, he observes that he has suddenly become an object of mingled curiosity and
respect on the part of the villagers. The cause of this prominence is a mystery to him until
he learns that during his absence his friend had spread the rumor that he is a civil engineer
who has come to make a definite survey of the line of the Asuncion and Villa Rica Railroad,
which, although it was completed only to Paraguari, was originally intended to extend to Villa
Rica, taking Ibitimi in its route. Thus become a great man in the little community, M. Forgues
is besought by the political chief of the village--a functionary who fulfills the duties of
mayor--almost the only male adult in Ibitimi, to command his services. These services are pressed
on him with so much warmth that he is fain to seek relief from this persecuting hospitality
by announcing his desire to sleep that night under the canopy of heaven. Consequently, a bed
of girths is carried out into the public square for his use, a sort of leather ticking is stretched
on it, and he sleeps quietly with his face to the stars.

A long day's journey to Villa Rica lies before our traveler and his companion, and so they
rise early while the moon is still brightly shining. They bid the friendly political chief
farewell, and take their departure for Villa Rica. As they emerge from the village the moon
silvers with its pure light the tops of the palms and of the bushes that line the road. Away
from Ibitimi their course lies through a pretty forest, wherein the party is increased by the
addition of two Paraguayans on horseback, one of them armed with a long sword, and of a Paraguayan
woman, who rides her horse man-fashion. A few miles farther on they come to a vast marsh, a
common feature of the topography of Paraguay, and one of the great drawbacks to travel in the
country, for when the rains fall these marshes become dangerous and impassable, and the traveler
is compelled to go miles out of his way to turn them before he can continue his journey. The
lagoon which lies before them on this occasion, however, is empty, and they are thus saved
the détour of more than ten leagues which they would be compelled to make if it were filled
with water. The sun, dispersing the last vestige of the morning fog, rises in a clear blue
sky, and this spectacle they witness from a slight eminence, in front of which extends an immense
plain with its limit at the bank of the Tebicuari-mi, the waters of which shine like a mirror.

M. Forgues now begins to enter a stretch of wooded country in which the solitude of the day
previous is replaced by a thickly-settled region, wherein are to be seen in quick succession
a multitude of pretty ranchos nestled in the foliage. The day before, on the journey from Paraguari
to Ibitimi, scarcely ten persons had been met with, but now they pass groups of men--the fact
is more noticeable because of the rarity of men in Paraguay--and women. The men salute the
party by removing their hats, and the women with a Buen dia ("Good-day"), uttered with a gracious
smile. The whole of this forest is peopled like the environs of Paris. Rancho succeeds rancho
at short distances apart, and each shelters under its blackened thatched roof many women and
children, of whose number its small dimensions give no idea. In the towns the houses need to
be large to protect their occupants from the heat, but in this forest the people live in the
open air chiefly, entering their hovels only to sleep, be it during the day or the night. In
strange contrast with the humble aspect of the houses is the heavy silver pitcher, weighing
at least two pounds, from which M. Forgues is given to drink by the owner of one of the huts
of whom he has asked water.

Leaving these cheerful forest-homes behind him, our traveler fords the Tebicuari-mi, which
rises in the cordillera where are gathered the yerba-leaves from which is made the maté. The
water at Paso de Itape, as the ford is called, is shallow enough to permit the party to walk
their horses through it, although usually the passage is made on the flat-boat and the two
long canoes which are tied to the bank near by. The ford derives its name from the village
of Itape, which lies a short distance beyond--a pleasant, prosperous hamlet with cultivated
lands surrounding it, and built in a square, with its church and its bell-tower in the centre.
The space at the entrance of the sacred edifice is covered with sweet, fine grass, and contented-looking
oxen and horses browse at the foot of the wall.

It is the breakfast-hour, and M. Forgues and his companion stop in front of the first house
they reach as they enter the village and utter the traditional Ave Maria, thus requesting the
hospitality of the owner. In response, from the shadow of the verandah in which he is seated
comes a tall, superb-looking, bearded man, who replies, "Sin peccado concebida" ("conceived
without sin"), which indicates that the hospitality asked for is granted. When the Paraguayan
gives this response to the invocation of the traveler, the latter may consider himself at home;
and so is it on this occasion with M. Forgues. His host proves to have been one of that body
of the Paraguayan army, eight or ten thousand strong, which, besieged by the Brazilians in
the town of Uruguayana in 1865, at the very beginning of the war, became prisoners when the
town was surrendered. They fared far better than their unfortunate fellow-soldiers, for, sent
to Brazil, they remained there four years before they were exchanged. In addition to this,
they returned to their own country more instructed and more civilized than when they left it.
It is to this long relief from the perils of battle, by which the troops drawn from the department
of Itape were so generally spared the fate that overtook their comrades in the field, that
are due the evident prosperity and the large male adult population of the district, as M. Forgues
observed it. His host of the rancho is as gracious in manners and as affable as it is possible
to be, and serves up for breakfast a soup of Indian corn, a chicken fricasee and some delicious
bread of crusty chipa--a frugal meal assuredly, and one entirely out of keeping with the richness
of the service of silver plate which burdens the table, and which, worth fully two thousand
francs, includes three large plates, an enormous dish and several massive mugs. The spoons
and the forks, however, are of more modest material, for the former are made of horn and the
latter of iron.

After a brief siesta M. Forgues and his companion resume their journey toward Villa Rica. Under
a shed on the roadside they see a dozen women, all talking at the same time, and engaged in
grating manioc-roots in pails of water. The mixture thus obtained composes the dough of manioc.
This dough is very white, and is made into small balls which are pressed between the hands--an
operation which, when completed, constitutes the entire process of making a coarse kind of
bread, not at all of delicate flavor, called galetta, which is furnished to laborers of both
sexes. Under another shed a young girl with a complexion like bronze is seated before a loom
weaving, with a light and elegant shuttle, a hammock out of the cotton thread of the country.

Evening is about deepening into night when M. Forgues arrives at Villa Rica. His host in the
town, a prosperous shopkeeper, invites him to dinner, and at the table he meets the mistress
of the house, a tall, handsome Paraguayan woman, who receives him and his fellow-traveler with
polished courtesy. She belongs to the class of the posterity of the old Spanish colonists.
She is dressed in a long calico dress with a white train, and with a row of small red buttons
down the front. The sleeves have deep cuffs, also fastened with small buttons. A wide, turned-down
collar partly covers the shoulders, and exposes to the sight the lower part of a very shapely
neck. In the course of conversation this lady informs M. Forgues that the department of Villa
Rica is perhaps the only part of the country which may give an idea of what Paraguay was before
the war. The men, it is true, were killed off, as were the men of the other departments, but
by a happy chance the women and children were spared that terrible flight to the Cordilleras
whereby thousands of their sex and age perished. His hostess relates to him her experiences
during that fearful period. After the occupation of Asuncion by the Brazilians, and their advance
as far as Paraguari, Lopez gave the order that Villa Rica should be abandoned and that the
population should follow him to the mountains. As it happened, however, the commanding officer
of the two hundred men who constituted the Paraguayan force at Villa Rica just about that time
committed some breach of discipline, for which he was arrested by order of Lopez and sent to
another point to be tried and shot. Coincidently with this his detachment suddenly fell back,
leaving word with the inhabitants to quit the town within twenty-four hours or take the consequences
of disobedience. Despair and terror prevailed among the people, and while they were hesitating
as to what course to pursue, before the twenty-four hours of grace had expired news came to
them that the Brazilians had reached Ibitimi in the pursuit. Then the whole population fled
in the night to the Brazilians for protection, traveling until morning to Ibitimi, twelve leagues
distant.

The Guayrinos, as the inhabitants of Villa Rica are called, are industrious, amiable and temperate.
They possess great independence of character, and speak somewhat contemptuously of the submissiveness
of the rest of Paraguay to the slightest caprice of the dictators who have successively ruled
the country. Foreigners meet with a cordial welcome from them, and are often voluntarily selected
by them to be the godfathers of their children. The Guayrinos are, moreover, a contented community,
and are disposed to congratulate themselves on the fact that they are spared the presence of
the adventurers and cut-throats of the class that infests Asuncion and Paraguari. The women
are very devout, and on Sundays the church is filled with worshipers of the female sex, while
the men are possibly engaged in attending a cock-fight. Apropos of the religious fervor of
the Paraguayan women, M. Forgues relates that there is not a single house in Paraguay occupied
by natives which does not possess its two penates in the shape of wooden images of a saint,
which are kept enclosed in a glass box and are the objects of incessant devotion. This box
stands on a small table which serves as a sort of altar, and is placed in a certain corner
of the hut, sacred for that reason from all other use. From time to time the family, with a
pious inspiration on them, walk abroad in the village carrying the box with them. Then all
the neighbors, observing this, issue from their houses and follow the bearers of the box. Family
and escort chant while marching, and everybody uncovers as the little procession passes. After
a while the transient ceremony is over, the box is brought back to its accustomed corner, the
neighbors disperse and quiet resumes its sway in the hovel.

The department of Villa Rica produces excellent cotton, which is cultivated, however, only
in infinitesimal quantities. Indigo, called by the natives añil, grows wild. The tobacco of
the district is especially renowned, and in the Cordillera, the tops of which compose the background
of the beautiful region lying to the east of the town, maté is grown successfully. The very
name of the Cordillera of Caaguazu bears testimony to the abundance of the yerba, caa meaning
maté in the Guaranian language, and guazu, "great" or "much." As seen from the elevation on
which Villa Rica stands, this mountain-range, twelve leagues distant, stretches along the horizon
an undulating mass of blue. The intervening space nearer the town is filled with beautiful
forests, while beyond are vast plains, the monotony of which is broken by lagoons and clumps
of palms. The population of the region around Villa Rica is estimated at fifteen thousand.
There are good opportunities here for immigrants, for Nature, like a fruitful mother, holds
ample treasures in her bosom, which need only a little well-directed labor to bring the tiller
of the soil his reward. Laborers receive a sum equal to about twenty cents of our money for
a day's work, and carpenters about fifty cents. Food of coarse quality, however, is supplied
by the employer.

Owing to the decrease in the population--which, as before stated, is composed almost altogether
of women and children--and the simple life of the people, the importations into Paraguay are
limited to a few articles. Of these products of foreign industry, the observer may see exposed
for sale in the shops coarse cotton goods and hardware of an inferior quality, both manufactured
in England; boots and shoes, the former of which are worn chiefly, of Buenos Ayres make; and
ready-made garments of linen and poor cloths. The imported liquors and articles of food are
principally a small quantity of sugar, lard, wine of an execrable quality, and Hamburg gin,
together with a few boxes of candles and some oil and soap. To this list of imports must be
added the inevitable Chinese fire-crackers, without which noisy accessories no Paraguayan holiday
would be complete. Throughout South America a passion for fire-crackers and fireworks prevails;
and as an example of this mania, M. Forgues relates that when the Argentine troops were on
their return to Buenos Ayres after the close of the war, great preparations were made by the
authorities to greet them on their arrival at three o'clock in the afternoon with a great display
of fireworks. There was a delay in the coming of the troops, however, and so, to satisfy the
people, the fireworks were let off a half hour after the appointed time, although the soldiers
had not yet made their appearance. Still the troops delayed, and the populace, satiated with
pageantry, retired to their homes and to bed. About eleven o'clock at night a tumult of trumpets,
cymbals and drums was heard in the dark and deserted streets: it was the army, which, landed
at last, was making a solemn entry into the city, with nobody on the sidewalks to admire it.
The timely--or perhaps untimely--fireworks had appeased the desire for show, and the spectacle
of the marching soldiers was only of secondary importance in a celebration that included skyrockets
and Roman candles. Yerba is the principal article exported, and as the use of maté is so general
on the continent, this trade is a very important branch of industry. In addition to these leaves,
a small quantity of tobacco, a few hides, hard woods and demijohns of a primitive kind of rum
constitute the exportations of a country in which cotton and indigo grow wild, and where sugar
and rice could be made to yield large revenues.

The lack of money and of banking facilities in Paraguay has made the process of buying and
selling, in reality, but not professedly, a matter of exchange of commodities. For instance,
a shopkeeper will barter his imported cotton stuffs, his demijohns of wine, his candles, etc.
for the tobacco grown by the natives. The merchants also endeavor to buy as much tobacco as
possible, when the crop is first in, for specie. Usually, large profits are derived from this
course, as the planters have pretty well exhausted their receipts for the crop of the previous
year, and hence are disposed at that time to sell at a sacrifice. The money thus obtained returns
to the merchant in the usual way of business, and thus the latter is enabled to buy more tobacco.
The result is, that in the end the merchant gets the planter's cash as well as his tobacco.
It is a curious fact, however, that the Paraguayans do not admit the principle of exchange.
They must touch the value of their wares in the shape of coin before parting with them. Thus,
no woman of the country will exchange outright a quantity of yerba, large or small, or any
product of her industry, for cotton or thread. She will first insist on holding in her hand,
even if it be for a moment, the price in silver of her wares, and with this money she will
pay for what she obtains from the merchant.

During his sojourn in Villa Rica, M. Forgues purchases a house there, to the great gratification
of the community, who, in the simplicity of their hearts, see in him the pioneer of European
immigration, the influential capitalist who is to introduce foreign money among them. Attentions
are showered on him. The political chief of the town invites him to a twelve-o'clock breakfast
to meet the notabilities of the place. A salvo of firecrackers at noon announces that the chief
is prepared to welcome his friends, and the invited guests, male and female, hasten to the
prefecture. Before entering the banquet-hall the guests, as they arrive, take seats in wooden
chairs in a large ball-room which adjoins it, receiving as they do so, from the hands of the
host, a glass of caña. The breakfast-table is decked with flowers, and under it grunts and
roots about among the feet of the guests a very tame tapir as large as a decently-sized pig.
The hard and dry Spanish wine used at the entertainment is drunk out of large beer-glasses.
The mistress of the house and the officers of the Paraguayan guard that composes the political
chief's escort act as waiters. After many toasts have been offered and honored, M. Forgues,
mustering up his few words of Spanish-Guaranian, drinks to the health of the pretty girls of
Villa Rica amid the enthusiastic hurrahs of the guests, one of whom, with exclamations of Bueno!
bravo! and the like, leaves his seat to scatter flowers over our traveler's head, wishing him
at the same time every prosperity. At this moment a bass drum and a clarionet intervene in
the clamor with a delicious French melody, "Ah! zut alors si Nadar est malade!" and the company
retire to the ball-room to dance, and also, women as well as men, to smoke immense cigars.

Yakaguazu, a large square village near Villa Rica, is visited by M. Forgues. It contains eighty
or ninety houses, and a church which is the counterpart of that at Itape. There is a school
in the place attended by one hundred and twenty-five pupils, who secure a patriotic but limited
education with nothing in the way of a printed text-book but a lot of surplus copies of the
constitution of Paraguay. Their teacher informs M. Forgues that of the three hundred and sixty-five
school-children in his district, three hundred are orphans.

Continuing his journey the next day, with his host of Yakaguazu added to the party, M. Forgues
reaches the dwelling of an old and very rich Paraguayan, Vicente Fleytas, whose farm, happily
spared the ravages of war, is a fair sample of what the farms of the country were in the days
of Lopez. Fleytas lives in patriarchal style, and he entertains his visitors most hospitably.
At night, seated under the verandah, they smoke, or eat delicious oranges which the wife and
daughters of old Vicente peel in a large silver dish, and the hours of sleep are passed in
hammocks, the doors of the house having first been closed carefully to keep out any wandering
jaguars that may be prowling around. In regard to these fierce animals, M. Forgues says that
enough of them are to be met with in the forests of Paraguay to affright the bravest man, but
it is more difficult to avoid them than to see them. They are sometimes caught in traps resembling
enormous rat-traps and baited with raw meat. The skin of the jaguar sells for eight dollars,
and consequently the man who is so lucky as to catch one in his trap rejoices greatly. The
next night a ball is given at the patriarch's in honor of our traveler. During the day they
ride around the neighborhood and personally invite to the entertainment the guests to the number
of seventy-four, of whom seventy are young women, some of them very handsome. The music is
of the modest kind that might be expected from a clarionet and a guitar. The majority of the
participants come to the house with their chairs on their heads. The dances are the polka,
the waltz, quadrilles, including the Lancers, and two or three native dances called La Polomila,
the Dondon Karapé and La Santa Fé, which are accompanied with graceful poses, while the women,
as they dance, snap their fingers in imitation of castanets. While the dance is in progress
the good and hospitable Vicente remains outside to fire off his gun at intervals with the view
of frightening away the jaguars, one of these animals having been killed only eight days before
in the very room wherein the revelers are enjoying themselves. Before taking leave of the brave
Fleytas, M. Forgues is regaled with several jaguar stories which doubtless admirably prepare
him for the remainder of his journey through forest and jungle.

The next morning he bids the patriarch farewell. On the women and children of the family, grouped
in front of the house, he bestows a benediction with the utterance of a "Peace be with you!"
Then with his Swiss acquaintance he rides away, to return not to Villa Rica, but to Paraguari,
on his way to Asuncion. His course lies nearly due west, and for six leagues he rides through
a beautiful country, but on a road so muddy that the horses sink up to the saddle-girths. He
tarries for dinner at the estancia of another Paraguayan, Don Matias Ramirez--not as rich a
man, but as hospitable a host, as Don Vicente--who spreads before his guests for dinner a simple
repast of boiled turnips and small manioc doughnuts. But before reaching the estancia our traveler
has had the good fortune to shoot three large birds of the pheasant variety called mutus, and
thus the humble board of Don Matias is graced with meat, a rare commodity in those parts.

After a short siesta--as much an institution in Paraguay as dinner itself--M. Forgues pushes
forward, furnished with a youthful guide mounted on a mule whom Don Matias has bidden accompany
him. For six hours the route lies through a virgin forest composed of orange, cedar and other
trees, mingled with dense thorny thickets, trunks of decayed trees and a twisted network of
climbers. The passage through this forest is attended with many vexatious incidents, owing
to the difficulty experienced in making a way through the undergrowth and thickly-growing climbers.
After having his spectacles, his maps, his gun and his hat jerked from him, M. Forgues himself
is pulled from his horse. The horses are attacked by a multitude of small yellow flies, which
sting them unmercifully in the nostrils, the ears and in whatever part of their bodies the
animals cannot reach with their tails, so that, maddened with pain, they break into a fierce
gallop to avoid the pest, carrying their riders in their course along the edge of a hole in
the ground in which swarms about a bushel of small snakes of a bright green color. When the
party finally emerge from this beautiful but inhospitable forest, their clothes are hanging
in rags about their persons, and their faces and hands are covered with scratches caused by
the thorns.

Their next troublesome experience, although not so long continued, is almost as exhausting,
for when the forest is left behind they enter on a marshy waste, through which they are compelled
to ride for two hours. Finally, worn out with fatigue, hunger and thirst, they arrive at an
estancia, where sleeping accommodations are offered them in the shape of the under side of
a cart, nourishment in the shape of fire wherewith to cook a mutus, and assistance comes in
the persons of two servants, whose service consists in aiding M. Forgues and his companion
to devour, without thanks, salt or manioc, the frugal supper. After that, "Good-night to you!"
At daybreak our traveler takes his departure from his churlish--or, it may be, hungry--entertainers,
tending in the direction of the foundry of Ibicuy, where in the days of Lopez was smelted the
iron ore of San Miguel. Before the war this foundry was a small model establishment with a
handsome tile-covered roof, and was thoroughly equipped for the purpose to which it was devoted.
All the machinery was destroyed by the Brazilians, and the foundry was left a wreck. Near by
is the estancia of Margarita Rivarola, where our traveler and his companion stop to breakfast.
Margarita is a poor widow with a beautiful daughter. She is a cousin of a former president
of the republic, but so destitute did M. Forgues find her that she and her daughter led an
existence bordering on starvation. As in the case of his entertainment at the dwelling of Don
Matias, he fortunately brings his breakfast with him. He had killed that morning an ara, a
beautiful bird, but not so pleasant to the taste, and this constitutes the meal.

Leaving this spot, and traveling five leagues farther in the direction of Paraguari, M. Forgues
and his companion reach the village of Mbuyapey at eight o'clock at night. Here they meet with
an adventure. As they enter the village three men, composing the guard of the place and armed
with rusty pikes of the Lopez period, challenge them and order them to halt. An interview is
held in the darkness, and after a thousand explanations they are permitted to pass. Early next
morning they are aroused from sleep by a tumult at their window. Through the grating a number
of boys are glaring in on them, capering and uttering a variety of ejaculations. The secret
of this popular demonstration is soon explained, for almost at the same moment the door is
opened abruptly and the magistrate of the place makes his appearance, asking in Spanish to
see their passports and the passports of their horses. The dispute thickens. Finally, M. Forgues,
toying with his revolver, proclaims that he and his companion are Frenchmen, and not Paraguayans,
that no passports are necessary to travel in the country, and that they cannot be interfered
with with impunity. At this a change comes over the magistrate. He begs a thousand pardons,
and justifies his course as being merely in the interest of good order, while declaring his
belief in the entire respectability of our traveler and his friend. Even in this solitary and
almost deserted village a school flourishes (and here it may be remarked in passing that so
diffused is public instruction in Paraguay that it is a rare thing to meet with a Paraguayan
who cannot sign his name), and when M. Forgues and his companion ride away they are followed
by the benign smiles of the magistrate and the bewildered looks of the scholars.

In this departure from the retired hamlet of Mbuyapey our traveler falls into the great highway
that passes through the Missiones between Asuncion and Encarnacion on the Parana, in the south-eastern
corner of Paraguay. It includes in its extent the towns and villages of Jesus, Yuti, Ibicuy,
Quindi, Carapegua and Paraguari. The road presents a busy scene, for it is along this route
that the troperos drive their herds of cattle obtained from the Argentine province of Corrientes,
on the other side of the Parana. These drovers are free livers, and they spend their money
lavishly in the villages. The aspect of the Missiones differs from the part of Paraguay lying
to the north of it, as the names of the villages in the province differ from the nomenclature
elsewhere. Pampas covered with water prevail, for the country south of the Tebicuari is generally
marshy, and during a part of the year is transformed into a lake. Throughout this region decay
and ruin have set their seal on what was formerly one of the most prosperous parts of the republic.
Orange trees grow in wild profusion on the spots where once stood farm-houses, while mud ranchos,
tenanted by a few old women who sustain life with oranges and manioc, here and there disturb
the monotony of desolation. The early Jesuits have left their traces in their churches, college
squares now empty, and houses gone to wreck, while their labors in the cause of religion and
civilization are recalled in the names of saints borne by the villages. At Carapegua, which
owes what importance it possesses to its proximity to Paraguari and the railroad, our traveler
once more finds himself amid the products of civilization, for on the shelves of the grocery
stores are displayed, among other wares, cans of preserved fruits and meats from Europe.

From Carapegua, M. Forgues journeys to Paraguari, a day's ride. Eight days later he is in Asuncion,
and ready to take passage on the Republica for Buenos Ayres. "From the preceding extracts,"
he writes, "a very exact idea may be formed of a journey in the interior of Paraguay at the
present time. How to procure a piece of bread is a matter of serious moment: riding on horseback
fifteen leagues at a stretch, or threatening to blow out somebody's brains, is, as it were,
a matter of daily occurrence. What is seen and done there is often monstrous compared with
our European customs, and yet is not even shocking there where it is seen and done."

