 Jeffrey, being much inferior to the Professor in point of physical
size and strength, naturally enough delights in a pen with a finer point, and writes therefore
a lighter and more scratchy hand than the author of 'Lights and Shadows.' It will add to the
interest of Mr. Jeffrey's autograph to know that, as his hand is not at all altered, we have
preferred, as a matter of curiosity, to engrave a signature of his which is twenty-three years
old, being taken from a letter bearing date 1806."

W. WORDSWORTH: "a good hand, more worthy of the author of the best parts of 'The Excursion,'
than of the puerilities of many of the Lyrical Ballads."

DUGALD STEWART: "a hand worthy of a moral philosopher--large, distinct, and dignified."

W. JERDAN: Editor of the Literary Gazette; free and facile as his vein of criticism, and one
of the finest signatures in the page.

J. BAILLIE: "it will be perceived that it has less of the delicate feebleness of a lady's writing
than any of the others. It would have been sadly against our theory had the most powerful dramatic
authoress which this country has produced, written like a boarding-school girl recently in
her teens. This is decidedly not the case. There is something masculine and nervous in Miss
Baillie's signature; it is quite a hand in which 'De Montfort' might be written."

PERCY B. SHELLEY: Free as its author's wild and beautiful poetry; but it is not the hand of
a very clear or accurate thinker.

THOMAS CHALMERS: "We know of few more striking examples of character infusing itself into hand
writing, than that presented by the autograph of Dr. Chalmers. No one who has ever heard him
preach, can fail to observe, that the heavy and impressive manner in which he forms his letters
is precisely similar to the straining and energetic style in which he fires off his words.
There is something painfully earnest and laborious in his delivery, and a similar sensation
of laborious earnestness is produced by looking at his hard pressed, though manly and distinct,
signature. It is in a small space, an epitome of one of his sermons."

A. ALISON; the author of "Essays on Taste," and other works of sound discrimination.

WASHINGTON IRVING; the graceful author of the "Sketch Book," free as a crayon drawing, with
all its exquisite light and shade.

JANE PORTER: a fully more masculine though less tasteful hand than Washington Irving, with
whom she happens to be in juxtaposition; and the fair authoress of "Thaddeus of Warsaw," and
"the Scottish Chiefs" certainly appears to have as masculine a mind as the elegant but perhaps
somewhat effeminate writer of "the Sketch Book."

W. TENNANT: "full of originality, and in this resembles his own 'Anster Fair.' The notion may
be a fanciful one, but there seems to be a sort of quiet humour in the writing, which makes
its resemblance to 'Anster Fair' still more complete. The principle upon which the letters
are formed is that of making all the hair strokes heavy, and all the heavy strokes light."

       *       *       *       *       *

HALCYON DAYS.

(To the Editor.)

The following account of the origin and antiquity of Halcyon Days will, I feel convinced, prove
a valuable addition to that given by your intelligent correspondent P.T.W., in No. 471 of The
Mirror:--

Halcyon Days, in antiquity, implied seven days before, and as many after, the winter solstice--because
the halcyon laid her eggs at this time of the year, and the weather during her incubation being,
as your correspondent observes, usually calm. The phrase was afterwards employed to express
any season of transient prosperity, or of brief tranquillity--the septem placidae dies of human
life:

  The winter solstice just elapsed; and now
  Silent the season, sad alcyone
  Builds near the sleeping wave her tranquil nest.

  Eudosia.

  When great Augustus made war's tempest cease,
  His halcyon days brought forth the arts of peace.

  Dryden.

The halcyon built her nest on the rocks adjacent to the brink of the ocean, or, as some maintain,
on the surface of the sea itself:

                       Alcyone compress'd
  Seven days sits brooding on her wat'ry nest,
  A wintry queen; her sire at length is kind,
  Calms every storm, and hushes every wind.

  Ovid, by Dryden.

It is also said, that during the period of her incubation, she herself had absolute sway over
the seas and the winds:

  May halcyons smooth the waves, and calm the seas,
  And the rough south-east sink into a breeze;
  Halcyons of all the birds that haunt the main,
  Most lov'd and honour'd by the Nereid train.

  Theocritus, by Fawkes.

Alcyone, or Halcyone, we are informed, was the daughter of Aeolus (king of storms and winds),
and married to Ceyx, who was drowned in going to consult an oracle. The gods, it is said, apprized
Alcyone, in a dream, of her husband's fate; and when she discovered, on the morrow, his body
washed on shore, she precipitated herself into the watery element, and was, with her husband,
metamorphosed into birds of a similar name, who, as before observed, keep the waters serene,
while they build and sit on their nests.

Romford.

H.B.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

RANSOMS.

(To the Editor.)

In a late number, you gave among the "County Collections," with which a correspondent had furnished
you, the old Cornish proverb--

  "Hinckston Down well wrought,
  Is worth London dearly bought."

Possibly your correspondent was not aware that the true reading of this proverb is the following:--

  "Hinckston Down well wrought,
  Is worth a monarch's ransom dearly bought."

The lines are thus quoted by Mr. Barrington, in his elaborate work on the middle ages, and
refer to the prevailing belief, that Hinckston Down is a mass of copper, and in value, therefore,
an equivalent for the price set on the head of a captive sovereign. Perhaps, as some elucidation
of so intricate a subject as that of the ransoming prisoners during the middle ages, the following
remarks may not be deemed altogether unworthy of insertion in your pages.

Originally, the supposed right of condemning captives to death rendered the reducing of them
to perpetual slavery an act of mercy on the part of the conqueror, which practice was not entirely
exploded even in the fourteenth century, when Louis Hutin in a letter to Edward II. his vassal
and ally, desired him to arrest his enemies, the Flemings, and make them slaves and serfs.
(Mettre par deveres vous, si comme forfain à vous Sers et Esclaves à tous jours.) Rymer. Booty,
however, being equally with vengeance the cause of war, men were not unwilling to accept of
advantages more convenient and useful than the services of a prisoner; whose maintenance might
be perhaps a burden to them, and to whose death they were indifferent. For this reason even
the most sanguinary nations condescended at last to accept of ransom for their captives; and
during the period between the eleventh and fifteenth centuries, fixed and general rules appear
to have been established for the regulating such transactions. The principal of these seem
to have been, the right of the captor to the persons of his prisoners, though in some cases
the king claimed the prerogative of either restoring them to liberty, or of retaining them
himself, at a price much inferior to what their original possessor had expected. On a similar
principle, Henry IV. forbade the Percies to ransom their prisoners taken at Holmdown. In this
case the captives consisted of the chief Scottish nobility, and the king in retaining them,
had probably views of policy, which looked to objects far beyond the mere advantage of their
ransom. It is mentioned by a French antiquary that the King of France had the privilege of
purchasing any prisoner from his conqueror, on the payment of 10,000 livres; and as a confirmation
of this, the money paid to Denis de Morbec for his captive John, King of France, by Edward
III. amounted to this exact sum. The English monarch afterwards extorted the enormous ransom
of three millions of gold crowns, amounting, as it has been calculated, to £1,500,000. of our
present money, from his royal captive. The French author censures Edward somewhat unjustly
for his share in this transaction; here as in the case of the Percies, state reasons interfered
with private advantages. John yielded up to his conquerors not only the abovementioned sum,
but whole towns and provinces became the property of the English nation; to these De Morbec
could have no right. It was, however, notwithstanding the frequent mention in history of ransoms,
still in the power of the persons in possession of a prisoner to refuse any advantage, however
great, which his liberty might offer them, if dictated by motives of policy, dependant principally
on his personal importance. Entius, King of Sardinia, son of Frederic II. was esteemed of such
consequence to his father's affairs, that the Bolognese, to whom he became a prisoner in 1248,
would accept of no price for his manumission; and he died in captivity, after a confinement
of twenty-four years. Such was the conduct of Charles V. of France towards the Captal de Buche,
for whose liberty he refused all the offers made to him by Edward III.

On this principle the Duke of Orleans and Comte d'Eu, were ordered by the dying injunctions
of Henry V. to be retained in prison until his son should be capable of governing; nor was
it until after a lapse of seventeen years, that permission was given to these noblemen to purchase
their freedom.

If no state reason interfered, the conqueror made what profit he could of his prisoners. Froissart,
in speaking of Poictiers, adds, that the English became very rich, in consequence of that battle,
as well by ransoms as by plunder, and M. St. Palaye, in his "Mem. sur la Chevalrie," mentions
that the ransom of prisoners was the principal means by which the knights of olden time supported
the magnificence for which they were so remarkable. In the next century, the articles of war
drawn up by Henry V. previous to his invasion of France, contain the condition, "that be it
at the battle or other deeds of arms, where the prisoners are taken, he that may first have
his Faye shall have him for a prisoner, and need not abide by him;" by Faye, probably the promise
given by the vanquished to his captor to remain his prisoner, is understood; as the expression
donner sa foi, occurs in various French historians. The value of a ransom is sometimes estimated
at one year's income of a man's estate, and this opinion is supported by the custom of allowing
a year's liberty to captives to procure the sum agreed upon. By the feudal law, every tenant
or vassal was bound to assist his lord in captivity, by a contribution proportionate to the
land he held. As, however, the amount received for prisoners is very various, personal importance
had no doubt great weight in the determination of a captive's value. Bertrand du Guescelin
who had no property, valued his own ransom at 100,000 livres; and Froissart, at the same period
mentions the ransom of a King of Majorca, of the house of Arragon, as being exactly that sum.

(To be continued.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FATHERLAND.[1]

(FROM THE GERMAN OF ARNDT.)

(For the Mirror.)

  What is the German's Fatherland?
  On Prussia's coast, on Suabia's strand?
  Where blooms the vine on Rhenish shores?
  Where through the Belt the Baltic pours?
          Oh no, oh no!
          His Fatherland's not bounded so.

  What is the German's Fatherland?
  Bavaria's or Westphalia's strand?
  Where o'er his sand the Oder glides?
  Where Danube rolls his foaming tides?
          Oh no, oh no!
          His Fatherland's not bounded so.

  What is the German's Fatherland?
  Tell me at length that mighty land.
  The Swilzer's hills, or Tyrolese?
  Well do that land and people please,
          Oh no, oh no!
          His Fatherland's not bounded so.

  What is the German's Fatherland?
  Tell me at length the mighty land.
  In noble Austria's realm it lies,
  With honours rich and victories?
          Oh no, oh no!
          His Fatherland's not bounded so.

  What is the German's Fatherland?
  Tell me at length that mighty land,
  Is it what Gallic fraud of yore,
  From Kasier[2] and the empire tore?
          Oh no, oh no!
          His Fatherland's not bounded so.

  What is the German's Fatherland?
  Tell me at length that mighty land,
  'Tis there where German accents raise,
  To God in heaven their songs of praise.
          That shall it be
          That German is the home for thee.

  This is the German's Fatherland,
  Where vows are sworn by press of hand,
  Where truth in every forehead shines,
  Where charity the heart inclines.
          This shall it be,
          This German is the home for thee.

  This is the German's Fatherland,
  Which Gallic vices dares withstand,
  As enemies the wicked names,
  Admits the good to friendship's claims.
          This shall it be,
          This German is the home for thee.

  God! this for Fatherland we own,
  Look down on us from heaven's high throne,
  And give us ancient German spirit,
  Its truth and valour to inherit.
           This shall it be,
           The whole united Germany.

H.

Of the author of this song some account was given in a preceding number of the Mirror. It was
written on the same occasion as the Patriot's Call, when Napoleon invaded Germany, and was
intended to tranquillize all petty feelings of jealousy between the separate German states.
The translator believes that Messrs. Treuttel and Würtz published this song in an English dress
some few years since; he has, however, never seen a copy of that work.

    [1] We suspect this to be the burthen of a beautiful Quintett which
        we heard sung thrice the other evening at Covent Garden
        Theatre, in Mr. Planche's pleasing "Romance of a Day."--ED.

    [2] Emperor of Austria.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PLUNDER OF A SPANISH DILIGENCE.

(From the "Quarterly" Review, of "A Year in Spain." Unpublished.)

The author takes his seat about two in the morning in the cabriolet or front part of a diligence
from Tarragona, and gives many amusing particulars concerning his fellow travellers, who, one
after another, all surrender themselves to slumber. Thus powerfully invited by the examples
of those near him, the lieutenant catches the drowsy infection, and having nestled snugly into
his corner, soon loses entirely the realities of existence "in that mysterious state which
Providence has provided as a cure for every ill." In short, he is indulged with a dream, which
transports him into the midst of his own family circle beyond the Atlantic; but from this comfortable
and sentimental nap he is soon aroused by the sudden stopping of the diligence, and a loud
clamour all about him.

There were voices without, speaking in accents of violence, and whose idiom was not of my country.
I roused myself, rubbed my eyes, and directed them out of the windows. By the light of a lantern
that blazed from the top of the diligence, I could discover that this part of the road was
skirted by olive-trees, and that the mules, having come in contact with some obstacle to their
progress, had been thrown into confusion, and stood huddled together, as if afraid to move,
gazing upon each other, with pricked ears and frightened aspect. A single glance to the right-hand
gave a clue to the mystery. Just beside the fore-wheel of the diligence stood a man, dressed
in that wild garb of Valencia which I had seen for the first time in Amposta: his red cap,
which flaunted far down his back, was in front drawn closely over his forehead; and his striped
manta, instead of being rolled round him, hung unembarrassed from one shoulder. Whilst his
left leg was thrown forward in preparation, a musket was levelled in his hands, along the barrel
of which his eye glared fiercely upon the visage of the conductor. On the other side the scene
was somewhat different. Pepe (the postilion) being awake when the interruption took place,
was at once sensible of its nature. He had abandoned the reins, and jumped from his seat to
the road-side, intending to escape among the trees. Unhappy youth, that he should not have
accomplished his purpose! He was met by the muzzle of a musket when he had scarce touched the
ground, and a third ruffian appearing at the same moment from the treacherous concealment of
the very trees towards which he was flying, he was effectually taken, and brought round into
the road, where he was made to stretch himself upon his face, as had already been done with
the conductor.

I could now distinctly hear one of these robbers--for such they were--inquire in Spanish of
the mayoral as to the number of passengers: if any were armed; whether there was any money
in the diligence; and then, as a conclusion to the interrogatory, demanding La bolsa! in a
more angry tone. The poor fellow meekly obeyed: he raised himself high enough to draw a large
leathern purse from an inner pocket, and stretching his hand upward to deliver it, said, Toma
usted, caballero, pero no me quita usted la vida! "Take it, cavalier; but do not take away
my life!" The robber, however, was pitiless. Bringing a stone from a large heap, collected
for the repair of the road, he fell to beating the mayoral upon the head with it. The unhappy
man sent forth the most piteous cries for misericordia and piedad. He might as well have asked
pity of that stone that smote him, as of the wretch who wielded it. In his agony he invoked
Jesu Christo, Santiago Apostol y Martir, La Virgin del Pilar, and all those sacred names held
in awful reverence by the people, and the most likely to arrest the rage of his assassin. All
in vain: the murderer redoubled his blows, until, growing furious in the task, he laid his
musket beside him, and worked with both hands upon his victim. The cries for pity which blows
at first excited, blows at length quelled. They had gradually increased with the suffering
to the most terrible shrieks; then declined into low and inarticulate moans; until a deep-drawn
and agonized gasp for breath, and an occasional convulsion, alone remained to show that the
vital principle had not yet departed.

