THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 10, No. 268.] SATURDAY, AUGUST 11, 1827. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOSPITAL OF ST. THOMAS, CANTERBURY.

The subject of the above engraving claims the attention of the antiquarian researcher, not
as the lofty sculptured mansion of our monastic progenitors, or the towering castle of the
feudatory baton, for never has the voice of boisterous revelry, or the tones of the solemn
organ, echoed along its vaulted roof; a humbler but not less interesting trait marks its history.
It was here that the zealous pilgrim, strong in bigot faith, rested his weary limbs, when the
inspiring name of Becket led him from the rustic simplicity of his native home, to view the
spot where Becket fell, and to murmur his pious supplication at the shrine of the murdered
Saint; how often has his toil-worn frame been sheltered beneath that hospitable roof; imagination
can even portray him entering the area of yon pointed arch, leaning on his slender staff--perhaps
some wanderer from a foreign land.

The hospital of St. Thomas the Martyr of Eastbridge, is situated on the King's-bridge, in the
hundred of Westgate, Canterbury, and was built by Becket, but for what purpose is unknown.
However, after the assassination of its founder, the resort of individuals being constant to
his shrine, the building was used for the lodgment of the pilgrims. For many years no especial
statutes were enacted, nor any definite rules laid down for the treatment of pilgrims, till
the see devolved to the jurisdiction of Stratford, who, in 15th Edward III. drew up certain
ordinances, as also a code of regulations expressly to be acted on; he appointed a master in
priest's orders, under whose guidance a secular chaplain officiated; it was also observed that
every pilgrim in health should have but one night's lodging to the cost of fourpence; that
applicants weak and infirm were to be preferred to those of sounder constitutions, and that
women "upwards of forty" should attend to the bedding, and administer medicines to the sick.

This institution survived the general suppression of monasteries and buildings of its cast,
during the reigns of Henry VIII. and the sixth Edward; and after alternately grading from the
possession of private families to that of brothers belonging to the establishment, it was at
last finally appropriated to the instruction of the rising generation, whose parents are exempt
from giving any gratuity to the preceptor of their children.

Its present appearance is ancient, but not possessing any of those magic features which render
the mansions of our majores so grand and magnificently solemn; a hall and chapel of imposing
neatness and simplicity are still in good condition, but several of the apartments are dilapidated
in part, and during a wet season admit the aqueous fluid through the chinks and fissures of
their venerable walls.

SAGITTARIUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LECTURER.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR AFFECTIONS OF THE BRAIN.

Pain in the head may arise from very different causes, and is variously seated. It has had
a number of different appellations bestowed upon it, according to its particular character.
I need not observe that headach is a general attendant of all inflammatory states of the brain,
whether in the form of phrenitis, hydrocephalus acutus, or idiopathic fever; though with some
exceptions in regard to all of them, as I before showed you. It is often also said to be a
symptom of other diseases, of parts remotely situated; as of the stomach, more especially;
whence the term sick headach, the stomach being supposed to be the part first or principally
affected, and the headach symptomatic of this. I am confident, however, that in a majority
of instances the reverse is the case, the affection of the head being the cause of the disorder
of the stomach. It is no proof to the contrary, that vomiting often relieves the headach, for
vomiting is capable of relieving a great number of other diseases, as well as those of the
brain, upon the principle of counter-irritation. The stomach may be disordered by nauseating
medicines, up to the degree of full vomiting, without any headach taking place; but the brain
hardly ever suffers, either from injury or disease, without the stomach having its functions
impaired, or in a greater or less degree disturbed: thus a blow on the head immediately produces
vomiting; and, at the outset of various inflammatory affections of the brain, as fever and
hydrocephalus, nausea and vomiting are almost never-failing symptoms. It is not denied, that
headach may be produced through the medium of the stomach; but seldom, unless there is previously
disease in the head, or at least a strong predisposition to it. In persons habitually subject
to headach, the arteries of the brain become so irritable, that the slightest cause of disturbance,
either mental or bodily, will suffice to bring on a paroxysm.

The occasional or exciting causes of headach, then, are principally these:--

1. Emotions of mind, as fear, terror, and agitation of spirits; yet these will sometimes take
off headach when present at the time.

2. Whatever either increases or disorders the general circulation, and especially all causes
that increase the action of the cerebral arteries, or, as it is usually though improperly expressed,
which occasion a determination of blood to the head. Of the former kind are violent exercise,
and external heat applied to the surface generally, as by a heated atmosphere or the hot bath;
of the latter, the direct application of heat to the head; falls or blows, occasioning a shock
to the brain; stooping; intense thinking; intoxicating drinks, and other narcotic substances.
These last, however, as well as mental emotions, often relieve a paroxysm of headach, though
they favour its return afterwards.

3. A disordered state of the stomach, of which a vomiting of bile may be one symptom, is also
to be ranked among the occasional causes of headach.

These occasional causes do not in general produce their effect, unless where a predisposition
to the disease exists. This predisposition is often hereditary, or it may be acquired by long-protracted
study and habits of intoxication.--Dr. Clutterbuck's Lectures on the Diseases of the Nervous
System.

HYDROPHOBIA.

There is no cure for this disease when once the symptoms show themselves. A variety of remedies
have from time to time been advertised by quacks. The "Ormskirk Medicine," at one time, was
much in vogue; it had its day, but it did not cure the disease, nor, as far as I know, did
it mitigate any of its symptoms. With regard to the affection of the mind itself in this disease,
it does not appear that the patients are deprived of reason; some have merely, by the dint
of resolution, conquered the dread of water, though they never could conquer the convulsive
motions which the contact of liquids occasioned; while this resolution has been of no avail,
for the convulsions and other symptoms increasing, have almost always destroyed the unhappy
sufferers. --Abernethy's Lectures.

EFFECTS OF KINDNESS ON THE SICK.

Under all circumstances, man is a poor and pitiable being, when stricken down by disease. Sickened
and subdued, his very lineaments have a voice which calls for commiseration and assistance.
Celsus says, that knowing two physicians equally intelligent, he should prefer the one who
was his friend, for the obvious reason that he would feel a deeper interest in his welfare.
Kindness composes, and harshness disturbs the mind, and each produces correspondent effects
upon the body. A tone, a look, may save or destroy life in extremely delicate cases. Whatever
may be the prognosis given to friends, in all febrile cases, the most confident and consoling
language about the ultimate recovery should be used to the sick, as prophecies not unfrequently
contribute to bring about the event foretold, by making people feel, or think, or act, differently
from what they otherwise would have done. Again, in chronic cases, as time is required for
their cure, by explaining to the patient this fact, we maintain his confidence, we keep his
mind easy, and thus gain a fair opportunity for the operation of regimen or remedies; in short,
the judicious physician, like the Roman general, Fabius, conquers through delay, by cutting
off the supplies, and wearing out the strength of the enemy. In large cities, where the mind
is so much overwrought in the various schemes of private ambition, or of public business, anxiety
is very frequently the grand opposing circumstance to recovery; so that while the causes which
produced it are allowed to operate, mere medical prescription is of no avail. The effects of
this anxiety are visible in the pallid face and wasted body. But if the patient be possessed
of philosophy enough to forego his harassing pursuits; if he have not, from the contact and
cares of the world, lost his relish for the simple and sublime scenes of nature, a removal
into the country is of the utmost efficacy. The deformity and conflict of the moral world are
exchanged for the beauty and calm of the physical world; and surrounded by all the poetry of
earth and heaven, the mind regains its peace, and the health, as if by magic, is perfectly
restored.--Dr. Armstrong's Lectures.

DIET.

Experience has taught us that the nature of our food is not a matter of indifference to the
respiratory organs. Diseased lungs are exasperated by a certain diet, and pacified by one of
an opposite kind. The celebrated diver, Mr. Spalding, observed, that whenever he used a diet
of animal food, or drank spirituous liquors, he consumed in a much shorter period the oxygen
of the atmospheric air in his diving-bell; and he therefore, on such occasions, confined himself
to vegetable diet. He also found the same effect to arise from the use of fermented liquors,
and he accordingly restricted himself to the potation of simple water. The truth of these results
is confirmed by the habits of the Indian pearl-divers, who always abstain from every alimentary
stimulus previous to their descent into the ocean.--Dr. Paris on Diet.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MONTHS

The season has now advanced to full maturity. The corn is yielding to the sickle, the husbandmen,

    "By whose tough labours, and rough hands,"

our barns are stored with grain, are at their toils, and when nature is despoiled of her riches
and beauty, will, with glad and joyous heart, celebrate the annual festival of

THE HARVEST HOME.

BY CORNELIUS WEBBE.

    Hark! the ripe and hoary rye
    Waving white and billowy,
    Gives a husky rustle, as
    Fitful breezes fluttering pass.
    See the brown and bending wheat,
    By its posture seems to meet
    The harvest's sickle, as it gleams
    Like the crescent moon in streams,
    Brown with shade and night that run
    Under shores and forests dun.

    Lusty Labour, with tired stoop,
    Levels low, at every swoop,
    Armfuls of ripe-coloured corn,
    Yellow as the hair of morn;
    And his helpers track him close,
    Laying it in even rows,
    On the furrow's stubbly ridge;
    Nearer to the poppied hedge.
    Some who tend on him that reaps
    Fastest, pile it into heaps;
    And the little gleaners follow
    Them again, with whoop and halloo
    When they find a hand of ears
    More than falls to their compeers.

    Ripening in the dog-star's ray,
    Some, too early mown, doth lay;
    Some in graceful shocks doth stand
    Nodding farewell to the land
    That did give it life and birth;
    Some is borne, with shout and mirth,
    Drooping o'er the groaning wain.
    Through the deep embowered lane;
    And the happy cottaged poor,
    Hail it, as it glooms their door,
    With a glad, unselfish cry,
    Though they'll buy it bitterly.

    And the old are in the sun,
    Seeing that the work is done
    As it was when age was young;
    And the harvest song is sung;
    And the quaint and jocund tale
    Takes the stint-key from the ale,
    And as free and fast it runs
    As a June rill from the sun's
    Dry and ever-drinking mouth:--
    Mirth doth alway feel a drowth.
    Butt and barrel ceaseless flow
    Fast as cans can come and go;
    One with emptied measures comes
    Drumming them with tuneful thumbs;
    One reels field-ward, not quite sober,
    With two cans of ripe October,
    Some of last year's brewing, kept
    Till the corn of this is reaped.

    Now 'tis eve, and done all labour,
    And to merry pipe and tabor,
    Or to some cracked viol strummed
    With vile skill, or table drummed
    To the tune of some brisk measure,
    Wont to stir the pulse to pleasure,
    Men and maidens timely beat
    The ringing ground with frolic feet;
    And the laugh and jest go round
    Till all mirth in noise is drowned.

Literary Souvenir.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARMORIAL BEARINGS AT CROYDON PALACE.

(To the Editor of the Mirror.)

Sir,--In No. 266 of the Mirror, Sagittarius wishes to know the name of the person whose armorial
bearings are emblazoned at Croydon palace.

From the blazon he has given, it is rather difficult to find out; but I should think they are
meant for those of king Richard II. Impaled on the dexter side with those of his patron saint,
Edward the Confessor. Bearings that may be seen in divers places at Westminster Hall, rebuilt
by that monarch.[1]

    [1] Vide MIRROR, p. 98, Vol. iii.

I have subjoined the proper blazon of the arms, which is azure, a cross patonce between five
martlets or, impaling France and England quarterly, 1st. and 4th. azure three fleurs de lis.
2nd. or, 2nd and 3rd Gules, 3 lions passant guardant in pale, or.

The supporting of the arms with angels, &c. was a favourite device of Richard, as may be seen
in divers antiquarian and topographical works.

It is probable the hall of Croydon palace was built during the reign of Richard, which will
account for his arms being placed there.

I am, &c.

C. F.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEATH OF MR. CANNING.

The lamentable and sudden death of the Right Hon. George Canning has produced a general sensation
throughout this country. At the opening of the present year our nation deplored the loss of
a prince endeared to the people by his honest worth--but a short interval has elapsed and again
the country is plunged in sorrow for the loss of one of its most zealous supporters--one of
its chiefest ornaments--one of its staunchest friends--and one of its most eloquent and talented
statesmen! The life of the late George Canning furnishes much matter for meditation and thought.
From it much may be learnt. He was a genius, in the most unlimited sense of the word; and his
intellectual endowments were commanding and imperative. Of humble origin he had to contend
with innumerable difficulties, consequent to his station in life,--and although his talents,
which were of the first order, befitted him for the first rank in society, that rank he did
not attain until the scene of this world was about to be closed for ever from him. It may be
said of this eminent man, that he owed nothing to patronage--his talents directed him to his
elevated station, and to his intellectual superiority homage was made,--not to the man.

But, in other respects, the loss of Mr. Canning is a national bereavement. He was one of the
master-spirits of the age. His very name was distinguished--for he has added to the literature
of his country--by his writings and his eloquence he has stimulated the march of mind; he has
seconded the exertions of liberal friends to the improvements of the uneducated, and he has
patronized the useful as well as the fine arts, philosophy and science, of his country. To
expatiate at greater length would be superfluous, as we have in another place recorded our
humble tribute to his general character.[2] We have now, therefore, merely to put together
the melancholy facts connected with his death, and which will convey to another generation
a just sense of the value, in our time, attached to a noble and exalted genius. The just and
elegant laconism of Byron, by substituting the past for the present tense, may now be adopted
as a faithful and brief summary of what was George Canning.

    [2] Biographical Memoir of Mr. Canning, with a Portrait, MIRROR,
        Vol. iv.

"Canning was a genius, almost an universal one:--an orator, a wit, a poet, and a statesman."

       *       *       *       *       *

The king, with his usual quickness, was the first to perceive the dangerous state of Mr. Canning.
We understand, that almost immediately after he had quitted him, on Monday, his majesty observed
to sir William Knighton, that Mr. Canning appeared very unwell, and that he was in great alarm
for him. On Tuesday, sir William repaired to town, at the express command of his majesty, to
see Mr. Canning. At the interview with him, at the Treasury, Sir William made particular inquiries
into the state of his health. Mr. Canning was then troubled with a cough, and he observed to
Sir William that he almost felt as if he were an old man; that he was much weakened; but had
no idea of there being anything dangerous in his condition, and that he trusted that rest and
retirement would set him to rights. Sir William sent Dr. Maton to Mr. Canning, and on parting
with him, he observed that, as he should not leave town until Wednesday morning, he would call
on him, at Chiswick, on his way home to Windsor. Sir William found Mr. Canning in bed, at Chiswick.
He asked him if he felt any pain in his side? Mr. Canning answered he had felt a pain in his
side for some days, and on endeavouring to lie on his side, the pain was so acute that he was
unable to do so. Sir William then inquired if he felt any pain in his shoulder? He said he
had been for some time affected by rheumatic pains in the shoulder. Sir William told him that
the pain did not arise from rheumatism, but from a diseased liver, and he immediately sent
for the three physicians, who remained with him, and were to the last unremitting in their
attentions.

The disease continued to make rapid progress, in spite of all that the first medical skill
could do to baffle it, watching every turn it took, and applying, on the instant, every remedy
likely to subdue its virulence, and mitigate his sufferings.

On the following Sunday, August 5, bulletins were issued, stating that Mr. Canning was in most
imminent danger. The most painful interest was excited in the public mind by subsequent announcements
of his alarming state, and on Wednesday morning, the following melancholy intelligence reached
town:--

Chiswick, Wednesday, August, 8, 1827, (A. M.)

Mr. Canning expired this morning, without pain, at ten minutes before four o'clock.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANIES.

       *       *       *       *       *

BLACK BEARD.

There are few persons who reside on the Atlantic ocean and rivers of North America who are
not familiar with the name of Black Beard, whom traditionary history represents as a pirate,
who acquired immense wealth in his predatory voyages, and was accustomed to bury his treasures
in the banks of creeks and rivers. For a period as low down as the American revolution, it
was common for the ignorant and credulous to dig along these banks in search of hidden treasures;
and impostors found an ample basis in these current rumours for schemes of delusion. Black
Beard, though tradition says a great deal more of him than is true, was yet a real person,
who acquired no small fame by his maritime exploits during the first part of the eighteenth
century. Among many authentic and recorded particulars concerning him, the following account
of his death may gratify curiosity:--

From the nature of Black Beard's position in a sloop of little draught of water, on a coast
abounding with creeks, and remarkable for the number and intricacy of its shoals, with which
he had made himself intimately acquainted, it was deemed impossible to approach him in vessels
of any force. Two hired sloops were therefore manned from the Pearl and Lime frigates, in the
Chesapeake, and put under the command of Lieutenant Maynard, with instructions to hunt down
and destroy this pirate wherever he should be found. On the 17th of November, in the year 1718,
this force sailed from James River, and in the evening of the 21st came to an inlet in North
Carolina, where Black Beard was discovered at a distance, lying in wait for his prey. The sudden
appearance of an enemy, preparing to attack him, occasioned some surprise; but his sloop mounting
several guns, and being manned with twenty-five of his desperate followers, he determined to
make a resolute defence; and, having prepared his vessel over night for action, sat down to
his bottle, stimulating his spirits to that pitch of frenzy by which only he could rescue himself
in a contest for his life. The navigation of the inlet was so difficult, that Maynard's sloops
were repeatedly grounded in their approach, and the pirate, with his experience of the soundings,
possessed considerable advantage in manoeuvring, which enabled him for some time to maintain
a running fight. His vessel, however, in her turn, having at length grounded, and the close
engagement becoming now inevitable, he reserved her guns to pour in a destructive fire on the
sloops as they advanced to board him. This he so successfully executed, that twenty-nine men
of Maynard's small number were either killed or wounded by the first broadside, and one of
the sloops for a time disabled. But notwithstanding this severe loss, the lieutenant persevered
in his resolution to grapple with his enemy, or perish in the attempt. Observing that his own
sloop, which was still fit for action, drew more water than the pirate's, he ordered all her
ballast to be thrown out, and, directing his men to conceal themselves between decks, took
the helm in person, and steered directly aboard of his antagonist, who continued inextricably
fixed on the shoal. This desperate wretch, previously aware of his danger, and determined never
to expiate his crimes in the hands of justice, had posted one of his banditti, with a lighted
match, over his powder-magazine, to blow up his vessel in the last extremity. Luckily in this
design he was disappointed by his own ardour and want of circumspection; for, as Maynard approached,
having begun the encounter at close quarters, by throwing upon his antagonist a number of hand-grenadoes
of his own composition, which produced only a thick smoke, and conceiving that, from their
destructive agency, the sloop's deck had, been completely cleared, he leaped over her bows,
followed by twelve of his men, and advanced upon the lieutenant, who was the only person then
in view; but the men instantly springing up to the relief of their commander, who was now furiously
beset, and in imminent danger of his life, a violent contest ensued. Black Beard, after seeing
the greater part of his men destroyed at his side, and receiving himself repeated wounds, at
length, stepping back to cock, a pistol, fainted with the loss of blood, and expired on the
spot. Maynard completed his victory, by securing the remainder of these desperate wretches,
who were compelled to sue for mercy, and a short respite from a less honourable death at the
hands of the executioner.

ISLANDS PRODUCED BY INSECTS.

The whole group of the Thousand Islands, and indeed the greater part of all those whose surfaces
are flat, in the neighbourhood of the equator, owe their origin to the labours of that order
of marine worms which Linnaeus has arranged under the name of Zoophyta. These little animals,
in a most surprising manner, construct their calcareous habitations, under an infinite variety
of forms, yet with that order and regularity, each after its own manner, which to the minute
inquirer, is so discernable in every part of the creation. But, although the eye may be convinced
of the fact, it is difficult for the human mind to conceive the possibility of insects so small
being endued with the power, much less of being furnished in their own bodies with the materials
of constructing the immense fabrics which, in almost every part of the Eastern and Pacific
Oceans lying between the tropics, are met with in the shape of detached rocks, or reefs of
great extent, just even with the surface, or islands already clothed with plants, whose bases
are fixed at the bottom of the sea, several hundred feet in depth, where light and heat, so
very essential to animal life, if not excluded, are sparingly received and feebly felt. Thousands
of such rocks, and reefs, and islands, are known to exist in the eastern ocean, within, and
even beyond, the limits of the tropics. The eastern coast of New Holland is almost wholly girt
with reefs and islands of coral rock, rising perpendicularly from the bottom of the abyss.
Captain Kent, of the Buffalo, speaking of a coral reef of many miles in extent, on the south-west
coast of New Caledonia, observes, that "it is level with the water's edge, and towards the
sea, as steep to as a wall of a house; that he sounded frequently within twice the ship's length
of it with a line of one hundred and fifty fathoms, or nine hundred feet, without being able
to reach the bottom." How wonderful, how inconceivable, that such stupendous fabrics should
rise into existence from the silent but incessant, and almost imperceptible, labours of such
insignificant worms!

To buy books, as some do who make no use of them, only because they were published by an eminent
printer, is much as if a man should buy clothes that did not fit him, only because they were
made by some famous tailor.--Pope.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO MY BROTHER, ON HIS LEAVING ENGLAND.

By The Author of "Ahab."

(For the Mirror.)

    Wherever your fortune may lead you to roam,
    Forget not, young exile, the land of your home;
    Let it ever be present to memory's eye,
    'Tis the place where the bones of your fore-father's lie.
    Let the thought of it ever your comforter be,
    For no spot on this earth like your home can you see.

    The fields where you rove may be more fresh and fair,
    More splendid the sun, and more fragrant the air,
    More lovely the flowers, more refreshing the breeze,
    More tranquil the waters, more fruitful the trees.
    But home after all things--that dear little spot,
    Tho' it be but a desert can ne'er be forgot.

    In the thoughts of the day, and the dreams of the night,
    On your eyes like the kiss of your mother 'twill light,
    Then the mist will disperse which long absence has spread.
    And the paths you have trodden again you shall tread.
    Then farewell, young exile, wherever you roam,
    Oh! dear as your honour, your life, be your home.

J.H.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORDERS FOR HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS IN 1566.

    Orders for Household Servantes; first deuised by John
    Haryngton, in the yeare 1566, and renewed by John Haryngton,
    sonne of the saide John, in the yeare 1592: The saide John, the
    sonne, being then high shrieve of the county of Somerset.

    Imprimis, That no servant bee absent from praier, at morning or
    euening, without a lawfull excuse, to be alleged within one day
    after, vppon paine to forfeit for eury tyme 2d.

    II. Item, That none swear any othe, vppon paine for every othe
    1d.

    III. Item, That no man leaue any doore open that he findeth
    shut, without theare bee cause, vppon paine for euery time 1d.

    IV. Item, That none of the men be in bed, from our Lady-day to
    Michaelmas, after 6 of the clock in the morning; nor out of his
    bed after 10 of the clock at night; nor, from Michaemas till
    our Lady-day, in bed after 7 in the morning, nor out after 9 at
    night, without reasonable cause, on paine of 2d.

    V. That no man's bed bee vnmade, nor fire or candle-box
    vnclean, after 8 of the clock in the morning, on paine of 1d.

    VI. Item, That no one commit any nuisance within either of the
    courts, vppon paine of 1d.

    VII. Item, That no man teach any of the children any vnhonest
    speeche, or evil word, or othe, on paine of 4d.

    VIII. Item, That no man waite at the table without a trencher
    in his hand, except it be vppon some good cause, on paine of
    Id.

    IX. Item, That no man appointed to waite at my table be absent
    that meale, without reasonable cause, on paine of 1d.

    X. Item, If any man breake a glasse, hee shall aunswer the
    price thereof out of his wages; and, if it bee not known who
    breake it, the buttler shall pay for it on paine of 12d.

    XI. Item, The table must bee couered halfe an houer before 11
    at dinner, and 6 at supper, or before, on paine of 2d.

    XII. Item, That meate bee readie at 11, or before, at dinner;
    and 6, or before, at supper, on paine of 6d.

    XIII. Item, That none be absent, without leaue or good cause,
    the whole day, or any part of it, on paine of 4d.

    XIV. Item, That no man strike his fellow, on paine of loss of
    seruice; nor reuile or threaten, or prouoke another to strike,
    on paine of 12d.

    XV. Item, That no man come to the kitchen without reasonable
    cause, on paine of 1d. and the cook likewyse to forfeit 1d.

    XVI. Item, That none toy with the maids, on paine of 4d.

    XVII. That no man weare foule shirt on Sunday, nor broken hose
    or shooes, or dublett without buttons, on paine of 1d.

    XVIII. Item, That, when any strainger goeth hence, the chamber
    be drest vp againe within 4 howrs after, on paine of 1d.

    XIX. Item, That the hall bee made cleane euery day, by eight in
    the winter, and seauen in the sommer, on paine of him that
    should do it to forfeit 1d.

    XX. That the cowrt-gate bee shutt each meale, and not opened
    during dinner and supper, without just cause, on paine the
    porter to forfet for euery time, 1d.

    XXI. Item, That all stayrs in the house, and other rooms that
    neede shall require, bee made cleane on Fryday after dinner, on
    paine of forfeyture of euery on whome it shall belong vnto, 3d.

    All which sommes shall be duly paide each quarter-day out of
    their wages, and bestowed on the poore, or other godly vse.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NOVELIST.

No. CVII.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WOOD KING.

By Miss Emma Roberts.

