Gertrude (coming to the table and speaking with dull resentment). And why should I be going
to the Stores the way I have enough to do with a meeting of the League for Brighter Homes and
a luncheon of the Cubist Encouragement Society? Isn't it a queer hard thing that Dora cannot
be going to the Stores, and her with time enough on her hands surely?

    [Sits in her place and begins keening. While she has been speaking
    Dora has entered hurriedly, buttoning her jumper.

Dora (vigorously). And is it you, Gertrude Smith-Hybrow, that will be talking about me having
time on my hands? May the saints forgive you for the hard words, and me having to cycle this
blessed day to Mrs. Montgomery's lecture on the Dadaist Dramatists, and the méringues and the
American creams to be made for to-night's Tchekoff Conversazione. Is it not enough for a girl
to be destroyed with the play-acting, and the wind like to be in my face the whole way and
the rain falling, falling?

    [Sits in her place and keens.

Mrs. S.-H. (after an interval of keening). Is it your father that will be missing his train
this morning, Dora Smith-Hybrow?

Dora (rousing herself and selecting an egg). It is my father that will be missing his train
entirely, and it is his son that would this minute be sleeping the blessed daylight away had
I not let fall upon him a sponge that I had picked out of the cold, cold water.

Gertrude. It is a flapper you are, Dora Smith-Hybrow.

Dora. It is a flapper you will never be again, Gertrude Smith-Hybrow, though you be after doing
your queer best to look like one.

Mrs. S.-H. Whisht! Is it the time for loose talk, with the wind rising, rising, and the rain
falling, falling, and the price of butter up another threepence this blessed morning?

    [They all three recommence keening. Enter Mr. Smith-Hybrow followed
    by Cyril.

Mr. S.-H. (staunching a gash in his chin). Is it not a hard thing for a man to be late for
his breakfast and the rain falling, falling, and the wind rising, rising. It's destroyed I
am with the loss of blood and no food in my stomach would keep the life in a flea.

    [Sits in his place and opens his letters savagely. Cyril, a
    cadaverous youth, stares gloomily into the depths of the marmalade.

Cyril (dreamily). There's gold and gold and gold--caverns of gold. And there's a woman with
hair of gold and eyes would pick the locks of a man's soul, and long shining hands like pale
seaweed. Is it not a terrible thing that a man would have to go to the City when there is a
woman with gold hair waiting for him in the marmalade pot--waiting to draw him down into the
cold, cold water?

Dora. Is it another spongeful you are wanting, Cyril Smith-Hybrow, and myself destroyed entirely
waiting for the marmalade?

    [Cyril blushes, passes the marmalade, sits down languidly and selects
    an egg. Mrs. S.-H. pours out the coffee and resumes her keening.

Mr. S.-H. (glaring at her). Is it not a nice thing for the wife of a respectable City stockbroker
to sit at the breakfast-table making a noise like that of a cow that is waiting to be milked?

Mrs. S.-H. (hurt). It is keening I am.

Gertrude (passing him "The Morning Post"). Is it not enough that the price of butter is up
another threepence this blessed day, and the wind rising, rising, and the rain falling, falling?

Mr. S.-H. It is destroyed we shall all be entirely.

Cyril (gazing into the depths of his egg). There was a strange queer dream I was after having
the night that has gone. It was on the rocks I was....

Mr. S.-H. (glaring at the market reports). It is on the rocks we shall all be.

Cyril. ... on the rocks I was by the sea-shore ...

Dora (slightly hysterically). With the wind rising, rising?

Cyril (nodding). ... and the rain falling, falling. And a woman of the chorus drove up in a
taxi, and the man that had the driving of it was eating an orange. The woman came and sat by
the side of me, and the peroxide in her hair made it gleam like the pale gold coins that were
in the banks before the Great War (more dreamily). Never a word said she when I hung a chain
of cold, cold sausages about her neck, but her eyes were shining, shining, and into my hands
she put a tin of corned beef. And it is destroyed I was with the love of her, and would have
kissed her lips but I saw the park-keeper coming, coming out of the sea for tickets, and I
fled from the strange queer terror of it, and found myself by a lamp-post in Hackney Wick with
the wind rising, rising, and the rain falling, falling.

    [He stops. The others stare at him and at one another in piteous
    inquiry. The women begin keening. Mr. S.-H. seizes the remaining egg
    and cracks it viciously.

Mr. S.-H. (falling back in his chair). Damnation!

    [The air is filled with a pungent matter-of-fact odour. Dora,
    holding her handkerchief to her nose, rushes valiantly at the offender
    and hurls it out of the window on to a flower-bed. The SYNGE spell is
    broken.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Punch begs to thank the seven hundred and forty-three correspondents who have so thoughtfully
drawn his attention to the too familiar fact that "there's many a slip 'twixt the Cup and the
LIPTON."

       *       *       *       *       *

I'LL NOT ASK FOR WINE.'"]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SUCCULENT COMEDIANS.

Among the literary and artistic treasures of American collectors the manuscript of LAMB'S essay
on Roast Pig is eminent. I have seen this rarity, which is now in the strong room where Mr.
PIERPONT MORGAN keeps his autographs safe equally from fire and from theft--if not from the
desire to thieve. Much did I covet in this realm of steel, and LAMB'S MS. not least. The essay
occupies both sides of large sheets of foolscap, written in a minute hand, with very few corrections,
both the paper and the time occupied in transcription, if not also in actual composition, being,
I should guess, the East India Company's. It is not, I imagine, the first draft, but the first
fair copy after all the changes had been made and the form was fixed; and its author, if he
is in any position to know what is going forward on a planet which he left some six-and-eighty
years ago, must have been amused when he heard that so much money--thousands and thousands
of dollars--had been given for it at auction the other day.

Reading the essay again, in the faded ink on the yellowing paper, I realised once more that
everything that can be said about little pigs, dead and ripe for the eater, had been said here
and said finally. But the living? That very evening I was to find little live pigs working
for their maintenance under conditions of which I had never dreamed, in an environment less
conducive, one would suppose, to porcine activity than any that could be selected.

It was at Coney Island, that astonishing permanent and magnified Earl's Court Exhibition, summer
Blackpool and August-Bank-Holiday-Hampstead-Heath, which New York supports for its beguilement.
In this domain of switchbacks and chutes, merry-go-rounds and shooting-galleries, dancing-halls
and witching waves, vociferous and crowded and lit by a million lamps, I came suddenly upon
the Pig Slide and had a new conception of what quadrupeds can do for man.

The Pig Slide, which was in one of the less noisy quarters of Luna Park, consisted of an enclosure
in which stood a wooden building of two storeys, some five yards wide and three high. On the
upper storey was a row of six or eight cages, in each of which dwelt a little live pig, an
infant of a few weeks. In the middle of the row, descending to the ground, was an inclined
board, with raised edges, such as is often installed in swimming- baths to make diving automatic,
and beneath each cage was a hole a foot in diameter. The spectators and participants crowded
outside the enclosure, and the thing was to throw balls, which were hired for the purpose,
into the holes. Nothing could exceed the alert and eager interest taken by the little pigs
in the efforts of the ball-throwers. They quivered on their little legs; they pressed their
little noses against the bars of the cages; their little eyes sparkled; their tails (the only
corkscrews left in America) curled and uncurled and curled again: and with reason, for whereas,
if you missed--as was only too easy--nothing happened, if you threw accurately the fun began,
and the fun was also theirs.

This is what occurred. First a bell rang and then a spring released the door of the cage immediately
over the hole which your ball had entered, so that it swung open. The little pig within, after
watching the previous infirmity of your aim with dejection, if not contempt, had pricked up
his ears on the sound of the bell, and now smiled a gratified smile, irresistible in infectiousness,
and trotted out, and, with the smile dissolving into an expression of absolute beatitude, slid
voluptuously down the plank: to be gathered in at the foot by an attendant and returned to
its cage all ready for another such adventure.

It was for these moments and their concomitant changes of countenance that you paid your money.
To taste the triumph of good marksmanship was only a fraction of your joy; the greater part
of it consisted in liberating a little prisoner and setting in motion so much ecstasy.

We do not use baby pigs in this entertaining way in England. At the most we hunt them greased.
But when other beguilements weary we might. The R.S.P.C.A. could not object, the little pets
are so happy. And what a privilege is theirs, both alive and dead, to enchant creation's lord.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In order to give a lead in economy King George and Queen Mary and a
    number of peeresses have decided not to wear plumes or tulle veils at
    the opening of Parliament."--Australian Paper.

Very self-sacrificing of HIS MAJESTY.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "'My husband says I must leavee teo-night,' said a wife at Acton. 'Oh,
    hee eceanee't givee you ... notice to quit,' said the magistrate."--
    Evening Paper.

His worship seems to have settled the matter with e's.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MINISTERING ANGEL.

    [Yawning, it is now claimed, is an excellent thing for the health.]

  Stretched prone upon my couch of pain,
    An ache in every limb,
  Fell influenza having slain
    My customary vim,
  I mused, disconsolate, about
    The pattern of my pall,
  When lo! I heard a step without
    And Thomson came to call.

  "Your ruddy health," I told him, "mocks
    A hand too weak to grip
  The tea-cup with its captive ox
    And raise it to my lip;"
  To which he answered he had come
    To bring for my delight
  Red posies of geranium
    And roses pink and white.

  'Twas kind of Thomson thus to seek
    To mitigate my gloom,
  But why did he proceed to speak
    Of how he'd reared each bloom,
  Telling in language far from terse
    On what his blossoms fed
  And how he made the greenfly curse
    The day that it was bred?

  He told me how he rose at dawn
    To titivate the land
  ('Twas here that I began to yawn
    Behind a courteous hand),
  And how he thought his favourite pea
    Had found the soil too dry
  (And here I feared my yawns would be
    Apparent to his eye).

  On fruit and blossom good and bad
    He rambled on unchecked,
  Until his conversation had
    Such curative effect
  That in the end it drove away
    My weak despondent mood.
  I clasped his hand and blessed the day
    He came to do me good.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "MORE DEARER PUBLICATIONS."--Daily Mail.

More dearer nor what they was? Dear, dear!

       *       *       *       *       *

From Young India, the organ of Mr. GANDHI:--

    "In our last issue the number of those in receipt of relief is given at
    500. This is a printer's devil. The number is 5,000."

Mr. GANDHI ought to exorcise that devil.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The tests were entirely satisfactory, and the pilot manoeuvred for a
    quarter of an hour at a height of 500 metres and a speed of 150
    millimetres an hour."--Aeronautics.

This is believed to be the nearest approach to "hovering" that has yet been achieved by a machine.

       *       *       *       *       *

NITRATES.

  All alone I went a-walking by the London Docks one day,
  For to see the ships discharging in the basins where they lay;
  And the cargoes that I saw there they were every sort and kind,
  Every blessed brand of merchandise a man could bring to mind;
  There were things in crates and boxes, there was stuff in bags and bales,
  There were tea-chests wrapped in matting, there were Eastern-looking
      frails,
  There were baulks of teak and greenheart, there were stacks of spruce and
      pine,
  There was cork and frozen carcasses and casks of Spanish wine,
  There was rice and spice and cocoa-nuts, and rum enough was there
  For to warm all London's innards up and leave a drop to spare;

  But of all the freights I found there, gathered in from far and wide,
  All the smells both nice and nasty from the Pool to Barkingside,
  All the harvest of the harbours from Bombay to Montreal,
  There was one that took my fancy first and foremost of them all;
  It was neither choice nor costly, it was neither rich nor rare
  And, in most ways you can think of, it was neither here nor there,
  It was nothing over-beautiful to smell nor yet to see--
  Only bags of stuffy nitrate--but it meant a lot to me.

  I forgot the swarming stevedores, I forgot the dust and din,
  And the rattle of the winches hoisting cargo out and in,
  And the rusty tramp before me with her hatches open wide,
  And the grinding of her derricks as the sacks went overside;
  I forgot the murk of London and the dull November sky--
  I was far, ay, far from England, in a day that's long gone by.

  I forgot the thousand changes years have brought in ships and men,
  And the knots on Time's old log-line that have reeled away since then,
  And I saw a fast full-rigger with her swelling canvas spread,
  And the steady trade-wind droning in her royals overhead,
  Fleecy trade-clouds on the sky-line--high above the Tropic blue--
  And the curved arch of her foresail and the ocean gleaming through;
  I recalled the Cape Stiff weather, when your soul-case seemed to freeze,
  And the trampling, cursing watches and the pouring, pooping seas,
  And the ice on spar and jackstay, and the cracking, volleying sail,
  And the tatters of our voices blowing down the roaring gale ...
  I recalled the West Coast harbours just as plain as yesteryear--
  Nitrate ports, all dry and dusty, where they sell fresh water-dear--
  Little cities white and wicked by a bleak and barren shore,
  With an anchor on the cliff-side for to show you where to moor;
  And the sour red wine we tasted, and the foolish songs we sung,
  And the girls we had our fun with in the days when we were young;
  And the dancing in the evenings down at Dago Bill's saloon,
  And the stars above the mountains and the sea's eternal tune.

  Only bags of stuffy nitrate from a far Pacific shore,
  From a dreary West Coast harbour that I'll surely fetch no more;
  Only bags of stuffy nitrate, with its faint familiar smell
  Bringing back the ships and shipmates that I used to know so well;
  Half a lifetime lies between us and a thousand leagues of sea,
  But it called the days departed and my boyhood back to me.

  C.F.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROSES ALL THE WAY.

Fired by an Irish rose-grower's pictures of some of his beautiful new seedlings we are tempted
to describe one or two of our own favourite flowers in language similar to his own. This is
an example of the way he does it:--

    "LADY MAUREEN STEWART (Hybrid Tea).--A gloriously-finished globular
    slightly imbricated cupped bloom with velvety black scarlet cerise
    shell-shaped petals, whose reflex is solid pure orangey maroon without
    veining. An excellent bloom, ideal shape, brilliant and non-fading
    colour with heavy musk rose odour. Erect growth and flower-stalk.
    Foliage wax and leathery and not too large. A very floriferous and
    beautiful rose. 21s. each."

Why not also these?--

DAVID (Hybrid Tory-Lib.).--A gloriously-finished true-blue-slightly- imbricated-with-red-flag
coalition rose whose deep globular head with ornate decorative calyx retains its perfect exhibition-cross-question-
hostile-amendment symmetry of form without blueing or burning in the hottest Westminster sun.
Its smiling peach and cerise endearments terminating in black scarlet shell-shaped waxy Berlin
ultimata are carried on an admirably rigid peduncle. Equally vigorous in all parts of Europe.
Superbly rampant. Not on sale.

AUSTEN (Tea and most other things).--This bottomless-cupped bank-paper- white-edged-and-rimmed-with-tape-pink-margin
bloom, the reflex of whose never-fading demand notes is velvety black thunder-cloud with lightning-
flash six-months-in-the-second-division veinations, has never been known to be too full. It
is supported by a landlordly stalk of the utmost excess- profits-war-profits-minor-profits
rigidity. A decorative, acquisitive and especially captivating rose, and already something
more than a popular favourite. 18s. in £1.

SIR THOMAS (Ceylon and India Tea).--This true sport from the British bull-dog rose has a slightly
globular double-hemisphere-popular greatly- desiring-and-deserving-to-be-cupped bloom whose
pearly preserved cream flesh is delicately flushed and mottled with tinned salmon and dried
apricot. Rich golden and banking-account stamina, foliage deep navy blue with brass buttons
and a superb fragrance of western ocean. Its marvellous try-try-try-again floriferousness in
all weathers is the admiration of all beholders. Price no object.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a weather forecast:--

    "General Outlook.--It appears probable that further expressions will
    arrive from the westward or north-westward before long, and that after
    a temporary improvement the weather will again become unsettled; with
    much cloud and occasional rain."--Evening Paper.

In which event further expressions (of a sultry character) may be expected from all round the
compass.

       *       *       *       *       *

"COME UNTO THESE YELLOW SANDS."

       *       *       *       *       *

QUEEN'S COUNSEL.

The Fairy Queen shook her head in answer to my question. "No," she said, "I have no favourite
flower."

She had dropped in after dinner, as was her occasional habit, and at the moment sat perched
on a big red carnation which stood in a flower-glass on the top of my desk.

"You see," she continued, floating across to where I was sitting and lowering her voice confidentially,
for there were a good many flowers about--"you see it would never do. Just think of the trouble
it would cause. Imagine the state of mind of the lilies if I were to show a preference for
roses. There's always been a little jealousy there, and they're all frightfully touchy. The
artistic temperament, you know. Why, I daren't even sleep in the same flower two nights running."

"Yes, I see," I said. "It must be very awkward."

I lapsed into silence; I had had a worrying day and was feeling tired and a little depressed.
The Queen fluttered about the room, pausing a moment on the mantel-shelf for a word or two
with her old friend the Dresden china shepherdess. Then she came back to the desk and performed
a brief pas seul on the shining smooth cover of my pass-book. My mind flew instantly to my
slender bank-balance and certain recent foolishnesses.

"Talking of favourites," I said--"talking of favourites, do you take any interest in racing?"

Instantly the Queen subsided on to my rubber stamp damper, which was fortunately dry.

"Oh, yes," she replied, "I take a great interest in racing. I love it. I can give you all sorts
of hints."

I thought it was a pity she hadn't called a week or two earlier. I might have been a richer
woman by a good many pounds.

"And there are so many kinds," continued the Queen earnestly. "Now in a butterfly race it's
always best just to hold on and let them do as they like. It's not a bit of use trying to make
them go straight. Rabbits are better in that way, but even rabbits are a little uncertain at
times. Full of nerves. But have you ever tried swallow-racing?" she went on enthusiastically.
"It's simply splendid. You give them their heads and you never know where you may get to. But,
anyway, it doesn't really matter in the least afterwards who wins; it's only while it's happening
that you feel so thrilled, isn't it?"

I didn't acquiesce very whole-heartedly. I'm afraid my thoughts were with my lost guineas.
It had rather mattered afterwards. I really had been very foolish.

"You look depressed," said the Fairy Queen. "Can I help you? I'm really extremely practical.
You know, don't you," she leaned forward and looked at me earnestly, "that I should be delighted
if I could assist you with any advice?"

I hesitated. Just before she came I had been anxiously considering as to how I was going to
make one hundred pounds do the work of two during the next few weeks; but somehow I didn't
quite like to mention such material matters to the Queen; it didn't seem suitable.

I looked up and met her kind eyes fixed on mine with an expression of the gentlest interest
and solicitude.

"I wonder," I said, still hesitating, "whether you know anything about stocks and shares?"

"Stocks and shares," she repeated slowly, looking just a little vague and puzzled. And then--"Oh,
yes, of course I do, if that's all you want to know."

I felt quite pleased now that I had really got it out.

"If you could just give me a useful hint or two I should be tremendously grateful," I said.
Already thousands loomed entrancingly before me. Already I saw myself settled in that darling
cottage on the windy hill above Daccombe Wood. Already--

"I think I had better get a pencil and paper," I said. "My memory's dreadful."

But the Fairy Queen shook her head.

"I'll write it down for you," she said, "and you can read it when I'm gone. That's so much
more fun. But I don't need paper."

She drew a tiny shining implement from her pocket and, picking up a couple of rose-petals which
had fallen upon the table, she busied herself with them for a moment at my desk, her mouth
pursed up, her brows contracted in an expression of intense seriousness.

"There," she said, "that's that. And now show me all your new clothes."

We spent quite a pleasant evening over one thing and another, and I forgot all about the rose-leaves
until after she had gone; but when I came back to my empty sitting-room they shone in the dusk
with a soft radiance which came, I discovered, from the writing on them. It glowed like those
luminous figures on watches which were so entrancing when they first appeared. I had never
realised before that they were fairy figures.

I spread the petals out on my palm, feeling quite excited at the prospect of making my fortune
by such means, though I was a little anxious as to how I was going to make use of the information
I was about to acquire.

"I will ask Cousin Fred," I decided (Cousin Fred being a stockbroker), and I smiled a little
to myself as I thought how amazed and possibly amused my dapper cousin would be when he learnt
the source of my knowledge. He might even refuse to believe in it--and then where should I be?

I needn't have troubled. When I unfolded my rose-petals this is what I read:--

"Stocks.--The white ones are much the best and have by far the sweetest scent.

Shares.--Always go shares."

R.F.

       *       *       *       *       *

HEART OF MINE.

(Being a rather hysterical contribution from our Analytical Novelist.)

Friday.--I suppose one never realises till one is actually dead how nearly dead one can be
without actually being it. You see what I mean? No. Well, how blithely, how recklessly one
rollicks through life, fondly believing that one is in the best of health, in the prime of
condition, and all the time one is the unconscious victim of some fatal infirmity or disease.
I mean, take my own case. I went to see my doctor in order to be cured of hay fever. He examined
my heart. He made me take off my shirt. He hammered my chest; he rapped my ribs with his knuckles
to see if they sounded hollow. I don't know why he did this, but I think he was at one time
attached to a detective and has got into the habit of looking for secret passages and false
panels and so on.

Anyhow, he suspected my chest, and he listened at it for so long that any miscreant who had
been concealed in it would have had to give himself away by coughing or blowing his nose.

After a long time he said, "Your heart's dilated. You want a complete rest. Don't work. Don't
smoke. Don't drink. Don't eat. Don't do anything. Take plenty of exercise. Sit perfectly still.
Don't mope. Don't rush about. Take this before and after every meal. Only don't have any meals."
I laughed at him. I knew my heart was perfectly sound, much sounder than most men's. I went
home. I didn't even have the prescription made up.

Saturday.--Now comes the tragic thing. That very night I realised that he was right. There
is something wrong with my heart. It is too long. It is too wide. It is too thick. It is out
of place. It would be difficult to say exactly where the measurements are wrong, but one has
a sort of sense ...  you know?... One can feel that it is too large.... A swollen feeling....
Somehow I never felt this before; I never even felt that it was there ... but now I always
know that it is there--trying to get out.... I put my hand on it and can feel it definitely
expanding--like a football bladder. Sometimes I think it wants to get out at my collar-bone;
sometimes I think it will blow out under my bottom rib; sometimes some other way. It is terrible....

I have had the prescription made up.

Sunday.--The way it beats! Sometimes very fast and heavy and emphatic, like a bad barrage of
5.9's. Fortunately my watch has a second-hand, so that I can time it--forty-five to the half-minute,
ninety-five to the full minute. Then I know that the end is very near; everyone knows that
the normal rate for a healthy adult heart is seventy-two. Then sometimes it goes very slow,
very dignified and faint, as when some great steamer glides in at slow speed to her anchorage,
and the engines thump in a subdued and profound manner very far away, or as when at night the
solemn tread of some huge policeman is heard, remote and soft and dilated--I mean dilatory,
or as when--But you see what I mean.

Monday.--How was it, I wonder, that all this was hidden from me for so long? And now what am
I to do? I am a doomed man. With a heart like this I cannot last long. I have resigned my clubs;
I have given up my work. I can think of nothing but this dull pain, this heavy throbbing at
my side. My work--ha! Yesterday I met another young doctor at tea. He asked me if there was
any "murmur." I said I did not know--no one had told me. But after tea I went away and listened.
Yes, there was a murmur; I could hear it plainly. I told the young doctor. He said that murmurs
were not considered so important nowadays. What matters is "the reaction of the heart to work."
By that test I am doomed indeed. But the murmur is better.

Tuesday.--I have told Anton Gregorovitch Gregorski. He says he has a heart too.

Wednesday.--I have been learning things to-day. I am worse even than the doctor thought. In
a reference book in the dining-room there is a medical dictionary. It says: "Dilatation leads
to dropsy, shortness of breath and blueness of the face." I have got some of those already.
I have never seen a face so blue. It is like the sea in the early morning.

Thursday.--The heart is bigger again to-day--about an inch each way. The weight of it is terrible
to carry.... I have to take taxis.... This evening it was going at thirty-two to the minute....

Friday.--Last night, when I tried to count the beats, I could not find it.... It must have
stopped.... Anton Gregorovitch says it is the end.... This is my last entry....

Saturday.--My face is very blue. It is like a forget-me-not ... it is like a volume of Hansard....

I shall go to see the doctor as I promised ... he can do nothing, but it will interest him
to see how much bigger the heart has grown in the last few days....

No more....

Sunday.--The doctor said it was much better.... It is undilated again.... After all I am not
going to die. But the reaction to work is still bad. This evening I make it sixty to the minute....

Monday.--This morning's count was seventy-two. It is terrible....

A.P.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FLOWERS' NAMES.

          SHEPHERD'S PURSE.

  There was a silly shepherd lived out at Taunton Dene
    (Hey-nonny-nonny-no for Taunton in the summer!)
  And oh, but he was bitter cold! and oh, but he was mean!
  The maidens vowed a bitterer had never yet been seen
              At Taunton in the summer.

  He lived to gather in the gold--he loved to hear it chink
    (Hey-nonny-nonny-no for Taunton in the summer!),
  And he could only dream of gold--of gold could only think;
  And all the fairies watched him, and they watched him with a wink
              At Taunton in the summer.

  At last one summer noonday, when the sky was blue and deep
    (Hey-nonny-nonny-no for Taunton in the summer!),
  They made him heavy-headed as he watched beside his sheep
  And all the little Taunton elves came stealing out to peep
              At Taunton in the summer.

  They opened wide his wallet and they stole the coins away
    (Hey-nonny-nonny-no for Taunton in the summer!),
  They took the round gold pieces and they used them for their play,
  They rolled and chased and tumbled them and lost them in the hay
              At Taunton in the summer.

  And when they'd finished playing they used all their magic powers
    (Hey-nonny-nonny-no for Taunton in the summer!);
  The silly shepherd woke and wept, he sought his gold for hours,
  And all he found was drifts and drifts of tiny greenish flowers
              At Taunton in the summer.

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE WORK FOR HIS MAJESTY'S JUDGES.

    "Potato disease has unfortunately made its appearance in the ----
    district, the early and second early crops being seriously attacked.
    The late crops are free from disease up to the present, and it is hoped
    by judicial spraying to save them."--Local Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

From an interview with the Superintendent of Regent's Park:--

    "'People seem surprised,' he said, 'when I tell them that within a few
    minutes' walk of Baker Street Station, and the incessant din of
    Marylebone Road, such birds as the cuckoo, flycatcher, robin and wren
    have reared their young.'"--Observer.

To hear of the cuckoo bringing up its own family in any circumstances was, we confess, a little
bit of a shock.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "'Idling, my dear fellow!' was Mr. Jerome K. Jerome's decisive answer
    to my question: 'What do you most like doing at holiday-time?'

    'But if, and only when, I am really driven to exertion, let me have a
    horse between my legs, a pair of oars, and a billiard-table, and I ask
    nothing more of the gods.'"--Answers.

The next time Mr. JEROME indulges in this performance may we be there to see.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, July 26th.--When the Peers were about to discuss the Law of Property Bill, which seeks
to abolish the distinction between land and other property, Lord CAVE dropped a bombshell into
the Committee by moving to omit the whole of Part I. Lords HALDANE and BUCKMASTER were much
upset and loudly protested against the proposal to cut out "the very heart and substance of
the measure." The LORD CHANCELLOR was less perturbed by the explosion and was confident that
after further discussion he could induce the CAVE-dwellers to come into line with modern requirements.
Thirty-four clauses thus disappeared with a bang; and of the hundred and odd remaining only
one gave much trouble. Objection was taken to Clause 101, granting the public full rights of
access to commons, on the grounds inter alia that it would give too much freedom to gipsies
and too little to golfers. Lord SALISBURY, who, like the counsel in a famous legal story, claimed
to "know a little about manors," was sure that only the lord could deal faithfully with the
Egyptians, but, fortified by Lord HALDANE'S assurance that the clause gave the public no more
rights and the lords of the manor no less than they had before, the House passed it by 42 to 29.

Mr. BRIDGEMAN, for the Board of Trade, bore the brunt of the early questioning in the House
of Commons. He sustained with equal imperturbability the assaults of the Tariff Reformers,
who asserted that British toy-making--an "infant industry" if ever there was one--was being
stifled by foreign imports: and those of the Free Traders, who objected to the Government's
efforts to resuscitate the dyeing trade.

The alarming rumours in the Sunday papers about the PRIME MINISTER'S state of health were effectively
dispelled by his appearance on the Front Opposition, a little weary-looking, no doubt, but
as alert as ever to seize the weak point in the adversary's case and to put his own in the
most favourable light. From the enthusiasm of his announcement that the Soviet Government had
accepted our invitation to attend a Conference in London, one would have thought that the Bolshevists
had agreed to the British proposals unconditionally and that peace--"that is what the world
wants"--was now assured.

Abhorrence of the Government of Ireland Bill is the one subject on which all Irishmen appear
to think alike. It is, no doubt, with the desire to preserve that unanimity that the PRIME
MINISTER announced his intention of pressing the measure forward after the Recess "with all
possible despatch."

But before that date it looks as if Irishmen would have despatched one another. The little
band of Nationalists had handed in a batch of private-notice Questions arising out of the disturbances
in Belfast. Their description of them as the outcome of an organised attack upon Catholics
was indignantly challenged by the Ulstermen, and the SPEAKER had hard work to maintain order.
The contest was renewed on a motion for the adjournment. As a means of bringing peace to Ireland
the debate was absolutely futile. But it enabled Mr. DEVLIN to fire off one of his tragical-comical
orations, and Sir H. GREENWOOD to disclaim the accusation that he had treated the Irish problem
with levity. "There is nothing light and airy about me," he declared; and no one who has heard
his pronunciation of the word "Belfast" would doubt it.

Before and after this melancholy interlude good progress was made with the Finance Bill, and
Mr. CHAMBERLAIN made several further concessions to the "family-man."

Tuesday, July 27th.--The Lords rejected the Health Resorts and Watering Places Bill under which
local authorities could have raised a penny rate for advertising purposes. Lord SOUTHWARK'S
well-meant endeavour to support the Bill by reminding the House that Irish local authorities
had enjoyed this power since 1909 was perhaps the proximate cause of its defeat, for it can
hardly be said that the last few weeks have enhanced the reputation of Ireland as a health resort.

Mr. HARMSWORTH utterly confounded the critics of the Passport Office. Its staff may appear
preposterously large and its methods unduly dilatory, but the fact remains that it is one of
the few public departments that actually pays its way. Last year it spent thirty-seven thousand
pounds and took ninety-one thousand pounds in fees. "See the world and help to pay for the
War" should be the motto over its portals.

It is, of course, quite proper that soldiers who wreck the property of civilians--albeit under
great provocation--should receive suitable punishment. But a sailor is hardly the man to press
for it. Lieutenant- Commander KENWORTHY received a much-needed lesson in etiquette when Major
JAMESON gravely urged, in his penetrating Scotch voice, that soldiers in Ireland should be
ordered not to distract the prevailing peace and quiet of that country, but should keep to
their proper function of acting as targets for Sinn Fein bullets.

Mr. CHAMBERLAIN dealt very gingerly with Sir ARTHUR FELL'S inquiry as to whether "any ordinary
individual can understand the forms now sent out by the Income Tax Department?" Fearing that
if he replied in the affirmative he would be asked to solve some particularly abstruse conundrum,
he contented himself with saying that the forms were complicated because the tax was complicated,
and the tax was complicated because of the number and variety of the reliefs granted to the
taxpayer. It does not seem to have occurred to him that it is the duty of the CHANCELLOR OF
THE EXCHEQUER to make the tax simple as well as equitable.

The House did not rise till half-past one this morning, and was again faced with a long night's
work. In vain Sir DONALD MACLEAN protested against the practice of taking wee sma' Bills in
the wee sma' oors. Mr. BONAR LAW was obdurate. He supposed the House had not abandoned all
hope of an Autumn recess. Well, then, had not the poet said that the best of all ways to lengthen
our days was to steal a few hours from the night?

The Report stage of the Finance Bill was finished off, but not until the Government had experienced
some shocks. The Corporation tax, intended partially to fill the yawning void which will be
caused some day by the disappearance of E.P.D.--on the principle that one bad tax deserves
another--was condemned with equal vigour, but for entirely different reasons, by Colonel WEDGWOOD
and Sir F. BANBURY. They "told" together against it and had the satisfaction of bringing the
Government majority down to fifty-five.

The champions of the Co-operative Societies also put up a strong fight against the proposal
to make their profits, for the first time, subject to taxation. Mr. CHAMBERLAIN declined, however,
to put them in a privileged position as compared with other traders, but carried his point
only by sixty-one votes.

