"Lohengrin" was begun in Paris, and finished in Switzerland during the period in which Wagner
was director of the musical society as well as of the orchestra at the city theatre of Zurich,
whither he had fled to escape the penalties for taking part in the political agitations and
subsequent insurrection of 1849. Though it manifests a still further advancement in the development
of his system, it was far from being composed according to the abstract rules he had laid down.
He says explicitly on this point, in his "Music of the Future:" "The first three of these poems--'The
Flying Dutchman,' 'Tannhäuser,' and 'Lohengrin'--were written by me, their music composed,
and all (with the exception of 'Lohengrin') performed upon the stage, before the composition
of my theoretical writings."

The story of Lohengrin, the son of Parsifal, upon which Wagner has based his drama, is taken
from many sources, the old Celtic legend of King Arthur, his knights, and the Holy Grail being
mixed with the distinctively German legend of a knight who arrives in his boat drawn by a swan.
The version used by Wagner is supposed to be told by Wolfram von Eschenbach, the Minnesinger,
at one of the Wartburg contests, and is in substance as follows: Henry I., King of Germany,
known as "the Fowler," arrives at Antwerp for the purpose of raising a force to help him expel
the Hungarians, who are threatening his dominions. He finds Brabant in a condition of anarchy.
Gottfried, the young son of the late Duke, has mysteriously disappeared, and Telramund, the
husband of Ortrud, daughter of the Prince of Friesland, claims the dukedom. The claimant openly
charges Elsa, sister of Gottfried, with having murdered him to obtain the sovereignty, and
she is summoned before the King to submit her cause to the ordeal of battle between Telramund
and any knight whom she may name. She describes a champion whom she has seen in a vision, and
conjures him to appear in her behalf. After a triple summons by the heralds, he is seen approaching
on the Scheldt, in a boat drawn by a swan. Before the combat Lohengrin betroths himself to
Elsa, naming only the condition that she shall never question him as to his name or race. She
assents, and the combat results in Telramund's defeat and public disgrace.

In the second act occur the bridal ceremonies, prior to which, moved by Ortrud's entreaties,
Elsa promises to obtain a reprieve for Telramund from the sentence which has been pronounced
against him. At the same time Ortrud takes advantage of her success to instil doubts into Elsa's
mind as to her future happiness and the faithfulness of Lohengrin.

In the next scene, as the bridal cortége is about to enter the minster, Ortrud claims the right
of precedence by virtue of her rank, and Telramund publicly accuses Lohengrin of sorcery. The
faith of Elsa, however, is not shaken. The two conspirators are ordered to stand aside, the
train enters the church, and Elsa and Lohengrin are united.

The third act opens in the bridal chamber. The seeds of curiosity and distrust which Ortrud
has sown in Elsa's mind have ripened, and in spite of her conviction that it will end her happiness,
she questions Lohengrin with increasing vehemence, at last openly demanding to know his secret.
At this juncture Telramund breaks into the apartment with four followers, intending to take
the life of Lohengrin. A single blow of the knight's sword stretches him lifeless. He then
places Elsa in the charge of her ladies and orders them to take her to the presence of the
King, whither he also repairs. Compelled by his wife's unfortunate rashness, he discloses himself
as the son of Parsifal, Knight of the Holy Grail, and announces that he must now return to
its guardianship. His swan once more appears, and as he steps into the boat he bids Elsa an
eternal farewell. Before he sails away, however, Ortrud declares to the wondering crowd that
the swan is Elsa's brother, who has been bewitched by herself into this form, and would have
been released but for Elsa's curiosity. Lohengrin at once disenchants the swan, and Gottfried
appears and rushes into his sister's arms. A white dove flies through the air and takes the
place of the swan, and Lohengrin sails away as Elsa dies in the embrace of her newly found brother.

The Vorspiel, or prelude, to the opera takes for its subject the descent of the Holy Grail,
the mysterious symbol of the Christian faith, and the Grail motive is the key to the whole
work. The delicious harmonies which accompany its descent increase in warmth and power until
the sacred mystery is revealed to human eyes, and then die away to a pianissimo, and gradually
disappear as the angels bearing the holy vessel return to their celestial abode. The curtain
rises upon a meadow on the banks of the Scheldt, showing King Henry surrounded by his vassals
and retainers. After their choral declaration of allegiance, Telramund, in a long declamatory
scena of great power ("Zum Sterben kam der Herzog von Brabant"), tells the story of the troubles
in Brabant, and impeaches Elsa. At the King's command, Elsa appears, and in a melodious utterance
of extreme simplicity and sweetness, which is called the dream motive ("Einsam in trüben Tagen"),
relates the vision of the knight who is to come to her assistance. The summons of the heralds
preludes the climax of the act. Amid natural outcries of popular wonderment Lohengrin appears,
and, as he leaves his boat, bids farewell to his swan in a strain of delicate beauty ("Nun
sei gedankt, mein lieber Schwan"). The preparations for the combat are made, but before it
begins, the motive of warning is sounded by Lohengrin ("Nie sollst du mich befragen"). The
finale of the act takes the form of a powerful ensemble, composed of sextet and chorus, and
beginning with the prayer of the King, "Mein Herr und Gott, nun ruf ich Dich."

The second act opens upon a night scene near the palace, which is merry with the wedding festivities,
while the discomfited Telramund and Ortrud are plotting their conspiracy without in a long
duet ("Erhebe dich, Genossin meiner Schmach"), which introduces new motives of hatred and revenge,
as opposed to the Grail motive. In the second scene Elsa appears upon the balcony and sings
a love-song ("Euch Lüften, die mein Klagen"), whose tenderness and confidence are in marked
contrast with the doubts sown in her mind by Ortrud before the scene closes. The third scene
is preluded with descriptive sunrise music by the orchestra, followed by the herald's proclamations,
interspersed by choral responses, leading up to the bridal-procession music as the train moves
on from the palace to the cathedral, accompanied by a stately march and choral strains, and
all the artistic surroundings of a beautiful stage pageant. The progress is twice interrupted;
first by Ortrud, who asserts her precedence, and second by Telramund, who, in the scena "Den
dort im Glanz," accuses Lohengrin of sorcery. When Elsa still expresses her faith, the train
moves on, and reaches its destination amid the acclamations of the chorus ("Heil, Elsa von
Brabant!").

The third act opens in the bridal chamber with the graceful bridal song by Elsa's ladies, "Treulich
gefuhrt, ziehet dahin," whose melodious strains have accompanied many unions, the world over,
besides those of Elsa and Lohengrin. The second scene is an exquisite picture of the mutual
outpouring of love, at first full of beauty and tenderness, but gradually darkening as Ortrud's
insinuations produce their effect in Elsa's mind. Tenderly Lohengrin appeals to her, but in
vain; and at last the motive of warning is heard. The fatal questions are asked, the tragedy
of Telramund follows, and all is over. The last scene introduces us once more to the meadow
on the Scheldt, where Lohengrin appears before the King and his vassals. In their presence
he reveals himself as the son of Parsifal, in a scena of consummate power ("In fernem Land,
unnahbar euren Schritten"), wherein the Grail motive reaches its fullest development. It is
followed by his touching farewell, "O Elsa! nur ein Jahr an deiner Seite," the melody of which
can hardly be surpassed in dignity and impressiveness. The dénouement now hastens, and Lohengrin
disappears, to the accompaniment of the Grail motive.

TRISTAN UND ISOLDE.

"Tristan und Isolde," an opera in three acts, words by the composer, was first produced at
Munich, June 10, 1865, under the direction of Hans von Bülow, with the following cast of characters:--

  TRISTAN     Herr LUDWIG SCHNORR VON CAROLSFELD.
  KURWENAL    Herr MITTERWURZER.
  KING MARK   Herr ZOTTMAYER.
  ISOLDE      Mme. SCHNORR VON CAROLSFELD.
  BRANGOENA   Mlle. DEINET.

"Tristan and Isolde" was commenced in 1857 and finished in 1859, during the period in which
Wagner was engaged upon his colossal work, "The Ring of the Nibelung." As early as the middle
of 1852 he had finished the four dramatic poems which comprise the cyclus of the latter, and
during the next three years he finished the music to "Das Rheingold" and "Die Walküre." In
one of his letters he says: "In the summer of 1857 I determined to interrupt the execution
of my work on the Nibelungen and begin something shorter, which should renew my connection
with the stage." The legend of Tristan was selected. It is derived from the old Celtic story
of "Tristram and Iseult," the version adopted by Wagner being that of Gottfried of Strasburg,
a bard of the thirteenth century, though it must be said he uses it in his own manner, and
at times widely departs both from the original and the mediæval poem.

In "Tristan and Isolde" Wagner broke completely loose from all the conventional forms of opera.
It has nothing in common with the old style of lyric entertainment. As Hueffer says, in his
recent Life of Wagner: "Here is heard for the first time the unimpaired language of dramatic
passion intensified by an uninterrupted flow of expressive melody. Here also the orchestra
obtains that wide range of emotional expression which enables it, like the chorus of the antique
tragedy, to discharge the dialogue of an overplus of lyrical elements without weakening the
intensity of the situation, which it accompanies like an unceasing passionate undercurrent."
In an opera like this, which is intended to commingle dramatic action, intensity of verse,
and the power and charm of the music in one homogeneous whole, the reader will at once observe
the difficulty of doing much more than the telling of its story, leaving the musical declamation
and effects to be inferred from the text. Even Wagner himself in the original title is careful
to designate the work "Ein Handlung" (an action).

The vorspiel to the drama is based upon a single motive, which is worked up with consummate
skill into various melodic forms, and frequently appears throughout the work. It might well
be termed the motive of restless, irresistible passion. The drama opens on board a ship in
which the Cornish knight, Tristan, is bearing Isolde, the unwilling Irish bride, to King Mark
of Cornwall. As the vessel is nearing the land, Isolde sends Brangoena to the Knight, who is
also in love with her, but holds himself aloof by reason of a blood-feud, and orders him to
appear at her side. His refusal turns Isolde's affection to bitterness, and she resolves that
he shall die, and that she will share death with him. She once more calls Tristan, and tells
him that the time has come for him to make atonement for slaying her kinsman, Morold.

She directs Brangoena to mix a death-potion and invites him to drink with her, but without
her knowledge Brangoena has prepared a love-potion, which inflames their passions beyond power
of restraint. Oblivious of the landing, the approach of the royal train, and all that is going
on about them, they remain folded in mutual embrace.

The second act opens in Cornwall, in a garden which leads to Isolde's chamber, she being already
wedded to King Mark. With Brangoena she is waiting for Tristan. The King goes out upon a night
hunt, and no sooner has he disappeared than Isolde gives the signal for his approach, while
Brangoena goes to her station to watch. The second scene is a most elaborate love-duet between
the guilty pair, the two voices at first joining ("Bist du mein? Hab'ich dich wieder?"). A
passionate dialogue ensues, and then the two voices join again ("O sink' hernieder, Nacht der
Liebe"). After a brief dialogue Brangoena's warning voice is heard. Absorbed in each other,
they pay no heed, and once more they join in the very ecstasy of passion, so far as it can
be given musical form, in the finale of the duet, "O süsse Nacht! Ew'ge Nacht! Hehr erhabne
Liebes-Nacht." The treachery of Sir Melot, Tristan's pretended friend, betrays the lovers to
the King. Tristan offers no explanations, but touched by the King's bitter reproaches provokes
Sir Melot to combat and allows himself to be mortally wounded.

The third act opens in Brittany, whither Kurwenal, Tristan's faithful henchman, has taken him.
A shepherd lad watches from a neighboring height to announce the appearance of a vessel, for
Kurwenal has sent for Isolde to heal his master's wound. At last the stirring strains of the
shepherd's pipe signal her coming. In his delirious joy Tristan tears the bandages from his
wounds, and has only strength enough left to call Isolde by name and die in her arms. Now a
second vessel is seen approaching, bearing King Mark and his men. Thinking that his design
is hostile, Kurwenal attempts to defend the castle, but is soon forced to yield, and dies at
the feet of his master. The King exclaims against his rashness, for since he had heard Brangoena's
story of the love-potion he had come to give his consent to the union of the lovers. Isolde,
transfigured with grief, sings her last farewell to her lover ("Mild und leise wie er lächelt"),
and expires on his body. The dying song is one of great beauty and pathos, and sadly recalls
the passion of the duet in the second act, as Isolde's mournful strains are accompanied in
the orchestra by the sweetly melodious motives which had been heard in it, the interweaving
of the two also suggesting that in death the lovers have been reunited.

THE MASTERSINGERS.

"Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg," a comic opera in three acts, words by the composer, was first
produced at Munich, June 21, 1868, under the direction of Hans von Bülow, with the following cast:

  HANS SACHS      Herr BETZ.
  WALTER          Herr NACHBAUER.
  BECKMESSER      Herr HÖLZEL.
  DAVID           Herr SCHLOSSER.
  EVA             Mlle. MALLINGER.
  MAGDALENA       Mme. DIETZ.

The plan of "The Mastersingers" was conceived about the same time as that of "Lohengrin," during
the composer's stay at Marienbad, and occupied his attention at intervals for twenty years,
as it was not finished until 1867. As is clearly apparent both from its music and text, it
was intended as a satire upon the composer's critics, who had charged that he was incapable
of writing melody. It is easy to see that these critics are symbolized by the old pedant Beckmesser,
and that in Walter we have Wagner himself. When he is first brought in contact with the Mastersingers,
and one of their number, Kothner, asks him if he gained his knowledge in any school, he replies,
"The wood before the Vogelweid', 'twas there I learnt my singing;" and again he answers:--

     "What winter night.
      What wood so bright,
  What book and nature brought me,
  What poet songs of magic might
  Mysteriously have taught me,
      On horses' tramp,
      On field and camp,
      On knights arrayed
      For war parade
  My mind its powers exerted."

The story is not only one of love as between Walter and Eva, but of satirical protest as between
Walter and Beckmesser, and the two subjects are illustrated not only with delicate fancy but
with the liveliest of humor. The work is replete with melody. It has chorales, marches, folk-songs,
duets, quintets, ensembles, and choruses, and yet the composer does not lose sight of his theories;
for here we observe as characteristic a use of motives and as skilful a combination of them
as can be found in any of his works. To thoroughly comprehend the story, it is necessary to
understand the conditions one had to fulfil before he could be a mastersinger. First of all
he must master the "Tabulatur," which included the rules and prohibitions. Then he must have
the requisite acquaintance with the various methods of rhyming verse, and with the manner of
fitting appropriate music to it. One who had partially mastered the Tabulatur was termed a
"scholar;" the one who had thoroughly learned it, a "schoolman;" the one who could improvise
verses, a "poet;" and the one who could set music to his verses, a "mastersinger." In the test
there were thirty-three faults to be guarded against; and whenever the marker had chalked up
seven against the candidate, he was declared to have oversung himself and lost the coveted honor.

The vorspiel is a vivid delineation of mediæval German life, full of festive pomp, stirring
action, glowing passion, and exuberant humor. The first act opens in the Church of St. Katherine,
at Nuremberg, with the singing of a chorale to organ accompaniment. During the chorale and
its interludes a quiet love-scene is being enacted between Eva, daughter of the wealthy goldsmith
Veit Pogner, and Walter von Stolzing, a noble young knight. The attraction is mutual. Eva is
ready to become his bride, but it is necessary that her husband should be a mastersinger. Rather
than give up the hand of the fair Eva, Walter, short as the time is, determines to master the
precepts and enter the lists. As Eva and her attendant, Magdalena, leave the church, the apprentices
enter to arrange for the trial, among them David, the friskiest of them all, who is in love
with Magdalena. He volunteers to give Walter some instructions, but they do not avail him much
in the end, for the lesson is sadly disturbed by the gibes of the boys, in a scene full of
musical humor. At last Pogner and Beckmesser, the marker, who is also a competitor for Eva's
hand, enter from the sacristy. After a long dialogue between them the other masters assemble,
Hans Sachs, the cobbler-bard, coming in last. After calling the roll, the ceremonies open with
a pompous address by Pogner ("Das schöne Fest, Johannis-Tag"), in which he promises the hand
of Eva, "with my gold and goods beside," to the successful singer on the morrow, which is John
the Baptist's Day. After a long parley among the gossiping masters, Pogner introduces Walter
as a candidate for election. He sings a charming song ("So rief der Lenz in den Wald"), and
as he sings, the marker, concealed behind a screen, is heard scoring down the faults. When
he displays the slate it is found to be covered with them. The masters declare him outsung
and rejected, but Hans Sachs befriends him, and demands he shall have a chance for the prize.

The second act discloses Pogner's house and Sachs's shop. The apprentices are busy putting
up the shutters, and are singing as they work. Walter meets Eva and plots an elopement with
her, but Sachs prevents them from carrying out their rash plan. Meanwhile Beckmesser makes
his appearance with his lute for the purpose of serenading Eva and rehearsing the song he is
to sing for the prize on the morrow. As he is about to sing, Sachs breaks out into a rollicking
folk-song ("Jerum, jerum, halla, halla, he!"), in which he sings of Mother Eve and the troubles
she had after she left Paradise, for want of shoes. At last he allows Beckmesser a hearing,
provided he will permit him to mark the faults with his hammer upon the shoe he is making.
The marker consents, and sings his song, "Den Tag seh' ich erscheinen," accompanied with excruciating
roulades of the old-fashioned conventional sort; but Sachs knocks so often that his shoe is
finished long before Beckmesser's song. This is his first humiliation. Before the act finishes
he is plunged into still further trouble, for David suspects him of designs upon Magdalena,
and a general quarrel ensues.

The third act opens upon a peaceful Sunday-morning scene in the sleepy old town, and shows
us Sachs sitting in his arm-chair at the window reading his Bible, and now and then expressing
his hopes for Walter's success, as the great contest is soon to take place. At last he leans
back, and after a brief meditation commences a characteristic song ("Wahn! wahn! Ueberall wahn!").
A long dialogue ensues between him and Walter, and then as Eva, David, Magdalena, and Beckmesser
successively enter, the scene develops into a magnificent quintet, which is one of the most
charming numbers in the opera. The situation then suddenly changes. The stage-setting represents
an open meadow on the banks of the Pegnitz. The river is crowded with boats. The plain is covered
with tents full of merrymakers. The different guilds are continually arriving. A livelier or
more stirring scene can hardly be imagined than Wagner has here pictured, with its accompaniment
of choruses by the various handicraftsmen, their pompous marches, and the rural strains of
town pipers. At last the contest begins. Beckmesser attempts to get through his song and dismally
fails. Walter follows him with the beautiful prize-song, "Morgenlich leuchtend in rosigem Schein."
He wins the day and the hand of Eva. Exultant Sachs trolls out a lusty lay ("Verachtet mir
der Meister nicht"), and the stirring scene ends with the acclamations of the people ("Heil
Sachs! Hans Sachs! Heil Nürnberg's theurem Sachs!").

THE RING OF THE NIBELUNG.

"Der Ring des Nibelungen," a trilogy, the subject taken from the Nibelungen Lied and adapted
by the composer, was first conceived by Wagner during the composition of "Lohengrin." The four
dramatic poems which constitute its cyclus were written as early as 1852, which will correct
a very general impression that this colossal work was projected during the closing years of
his life. On the contrary, it was the product of his prime. Hueffer, in his biographical sketch
of Wagner, says that he hesitated between the historical and mythical principles as the subjects
of his work,--Frederick the First representing the former, and Siegfried, the hero of Teutonic
mythology, the latter. Siegfried was finally selected. "Wagner began at once sketching the
subject, but gradually the immense breadth and grandeur of the old types began to expand under
his hands, and the result was a trilogy, or rather tetralogy, of enormous dimensions, perhaps
the most colossal attempt upon which the dramatic muse has ventured since the times of Æschylus."
The trilogy is really in four parts,--"Das Rheingold" (the Rhinegold); "Die Walküre" (the Valkyrie);
"Siegfried"; and "Die Götterdämmerung" (the Twilight of the Gods), "The Rhinegold" being in
the nature of an introduction to the trilogy proper, though occupying an evening for its performance.
Between the years 1852 and 1856 the composer wrote the music of the "Rhinegold" and the whole
of "The Valkyrie;" and then, as he says himself, wishing to keep up his active connection with
the stage, he interrupted the progress of the main scheme, and wrote "Tristan and Isolde,"
which occupied him from 1856 to 1859. During its composition, however, he did not entirely
forsake the trilogy. In the autumn of 1856 he began "Siegfried," the composition of which was
not finished until 1869, owing to many other objects which engaged his attention during this
period, one of which was the composition of "The Mastersingers," which he wrote at intervals
between 1861 and 1867. From the latter year until 1876, when the trilogy was produced at Baireuth,
he gave himself wholly to the work of completing it and preparing it for the stage.

Prior to the production of the completed work, separate parts of it were given, though Wagner
strongly opposed it. "The Rhinegold," or introduction, came to a public dress-rehearsal at
Munich Aug. 25, 1869, and "The Valkyrie" was performed in a similar manner in the same city,
June 24, 1870, with the following cast:--

  WOTAN        Herr KINDERMANN.
  SIEGMUND     Herr VOGL.
  HUNDING      Herr BAUSERWEIN.
  BRÜNNHILDE   Frl. STEHLE.
  SIEGLINDE    Frau VOGL.
  FRICKA       Frl. KAUFFMANN.

The "Siegfried" and "Götterdämmerung," however, were not given until the entire work was performed
in 1876. Upon the completion of his colossal task Wagner began to look about him for the locality,
theatre, artists, and materials suitable for a successful representation. In the circular which
he issued, narrating the circumstances which led up to the building of the Baireuth opera-house,
he says: "As early as the spring of 1871 I had, quietly and unnoticed, had my eye upon Baireuth,
the place I had chosen for my purpose. The idea of using the Margravian Opera-House was abandoned
so soon as I saw its interior construction. But yet the peculiar character of that kindly town
and its site so answered my requirements, that during the wintry latter part of the autumn
of the same year I repeated my visit,--this time, however, to treat with the city authorities....
An unsurpassably beautiful and eligible plot of ground at no great distance from the town was
given me on which to erect the proposed theatre. Having come to an understanding as to its
erection with a man of approved inventive genius, and of rare experience in the interior arrangement
of theatres, we could then intrust to an architect of equal acquaintance with theatrical building
the further planning and the erection of the provisional structure. And despite the great difficulties
which attended the arrangements for putting under way so unusual an undertaking, we made such
progress that the laying of the corner-stone could be announced to our patrons and friends
for May 22, 1872." The ceremony took place as announced, and was made still further memorable
by a magnificent performance of Beethoven's Ninth or Choral Symphony, the chorus of which,
set to Schiller's "Ode to Joy," was sung by hundreds of lusty German throats. In addition to
the other contents of the stone, Wagner deposited the following mystic verse of his own:

  "I bury here a secret deep,
      For centuries long to lie concealed;
  Yet while this stone its trust shall keep,
      To all the secret stands revealed."

He also made an eloquent address, setting forth the details of the plans and the purposes of
the new temple of art. The undertaking was now fairly inaugurated. The erratic King of Bavaria
had from the first been Wagner's steadfast friend and munificent patron; but not to him alone
belongs the credit of the colossal project and its remarkable success. When Wagner first made
known his views, other friends, among them Tausig, the eminent pianist, at once devoted themselves
to his cause. In connection with a lady of high rank, Baroness von Schleinitz, he proposed
to raise the sum of three hundred thousand thalers by the sale of patronage shares at three
hundred thalers each, and had already entered upon the work when his death for the time dashed
Wagner's hopes. Other friends, however, now came forward. An organization for the promotion
of the scheme, called the "Richard Wagner Society," was started at Mannheim. Notwithstanding
the ridicule which it excited, another society was formed at Vienna. Like societies began to
appear in all the principal cities of Germany, and they found imitators in Milan, Pesth, Brussels,
London, and New York. Shares were taken so rapidly that the success of the undertaking was
no longer doubtful. Meanwhile the theatre itself was under construction. It combined several
peculiarities, one of the most novel of which was the concealment of the orchestra by the sinking
of the floor, so that the view of the audience could not be interrupted by the musicians and
their movements. Private boxes were done away with, the arrangement of the seats being like
that of an ancient amphitheatre, all of them facing the stage. Two prosceniums were constructed
which gave an indefinable sense of distance to the stage-picture. To relieve the bare side
walls, a row of pillars was planned, gradually widening outward and forming the end of the
rows of seats, thus having the effect of a third proscenium. The stage portion of the theatre
was twice as high as the rest of the building, for all the scenery was both raised and lowered,
the incongruity between the two parts being concealed by a façade in front. "Whoever has rightly
understood me," says Wagner, "will readily perceive that architecture itself had to acquire
a new significance under the inspiration of the genius of Music, and thus that the myth of
Amphion building the walls of Thebes by the notes of his lyre has yet a meaning."

The theatre was completed in 1876, and in the month of August (13-16) Wagner saw the dream
of his life take the form of reality. He had everything at his command,--a theatre specially
constructed for his purpose; a stage which in size, scenery, mechanical arrangements, and general
equipment, has not its equal in the world; an array of artists the best that Europe could produce;
an orchestra almost literally composed of virtuosi. The audience which gathered at these performances--composed
of princes, illustrious men in every department of science and culture, and prominent musicians
from all parts of the world--was one of which any composer might have been proud, while the
representation itself marked an epoch in musical history, and promulgated a new system of laws
destined to affect operatic composition ever after.

The casts of the various portions of the trilogy upon this memorable occasion were as follows:

  DAS RHEINGOLD. (PRELUDE.)

  WOTAN  |             (Herr BETZ.
  DONNER |             (Herr GURA.
         |  Gods
  FROH   |             (Herr UNGER.
  LOGE   |             (Herr VOGL.

  FASOLT |             (Herr EILERS.
         |  Giants
  FAFNER |             (Herr VON REICHENBERG.

  ALBERICH |           (Herr HILL.
           | Nibelungs
  MIME     |           (Herr SCHLOSSER.

  FRICKA   |           (Frau VON GRÜN-SADLER.
  FREIA    |Goddesses  (Frl. HAUPT.
  ERDA     |           (Frau JÄIDA.

  Woglinde   )                  ( Frl. Lilly Lehmann.
  Wellgunde  ) Rhine daughters  ( Frl. Marie Lehmann.
  Flosshilde )                  ( Frl. Lammert.

DIE WALKÜRE.

  SIEGMUND      Herr NIEMANN.
  HUNDING       Herr NIERING.
  WOTAN         Herr BETZ.
  SIEGLINDE     Frl. SCHEFZKY.
  BRÜNNHILDE    Frau FRIEDRICH-MATERNA.
  FRICKA        Frau VON GRÜN-SADLER.

SIEGFRIED.

  SIEGFRIED     Herr UNGER.
  MIME          Herr SCHLOSSER.
  DER WANDERER  Herr BETZ.
  ALBERICH      Herr HILL.
  FAFNER        Herr VON REICHENBERG.
  ERDA          Frau JÄIDA.
  BRÜNNHILDE    Frau FRIEDRICH-MATERNA

DER GÖTTERDÄMMERUNG.

  SIEGFRIED     Herr UNGER.
  GUNTHER       Herr GURA.
  HAGEN         Herr VON REICHENBERG.
  ALBERICH      Herr HILL.
  BRÜNNHILDE    Frau FRIEDRICH-MATERNA.
  GUTRUNE       Frl. WECKERLIN.
  WALTRAUTE     Frau JÄIDA.

The motive of the drama turns upon the possession of a ring of magic qualities, made of gold
stolen from the Rhine daughters by Alberich, one of the Nibelungen, who dwelt in Nebelheim,
the place of mists. This ring, the symbol of all earthly power, was at the same time to bring
a curse upon all who possessed it. Wotan, of the race of the gods, covetous of power and heedless
of the curse which follows it, obtained the ring from Alberich by force and cunning, and soon
found himself involved in calamity from which there was no apparent escape. He himself could
not expiate the wrong he had done, nor could he avert the impending doom, the "twilight" of
the gods, which was slowly and surely approaching. Only a free will, independent of the gods,
and able to take upon itself the fault, could make reparation for the deed. At last he yields
to despair. His will is broken, and instead of fearing the inevitable doom he courts it. In
this sore emergency the hero appears. He belongs to an heroic race of men, the Volsungs. The
unnatural union of the twins, Siegmund and Sieglinde, born of this race, produces the real
hero, Siegfried. The parents pay the penalty of incest with their lives; but Siegfried remains,
and Wotan watches his growth and magnificent development with eager interest. Siegfried recovers
the ring from the giants, to whom Wotan had given it, by slaying a dragon which guarded the
fatal treasure. Brünnhilde, the Valkyr, Wotan's daughter, contrary to his instructions, had
protected Siegmund in a quarrel which resulted in his death, and was condemned by the irate
god to fall into a deep sleep upon a rock surrounded by flames, where she was to remain until
a hero should appear bold enough to break through the wall of fire and awaken her. Siegfried
rescues her. She wakens into the full consciousness of passionate love, and yields herself
to the hero, who presents her with the ring, but not before it has worked its curse upon him,
so that he, faithless even in his faithfulness, wounds her whom he deeply loves, and drives
her from him. Meanwhile Gunther, Gutrune, and their half-brother Hagen conspire to obtain the
ring from Brünnhilde and to kill Siegfried. Through the agency of a magic draught he is induced
to desert her, after once more getting the ring. He then marries Gutrune. The curse soon reaches
its consummation. One day, while traversing his favorite forests on a hunting expedition, he
is killed by Hagen, with Gunther's connivance. The two murderers then quarrel for the possession
of the ring, and Gunther is slain. Hagen attempts to wrest it from the dead hero's finger,
but shrinks back terrified as the hand is raised in warning. Brünnhilde now appears, takes
the ring, and proclaims herself his true wife. She mounts her steed, and dashes into the funeral
pyre of Siegfried after returning the ring to the Rhine-daughters. This supreme act of immolation
breaks forever the power of the gods, as is shown by the blazing Walhalla in the sky; but at
the same time justice has been satisfied, reparation has been made for the original wrong,
and the free will of man becomes established as a human principle.

