Don Gaspar had worked like a nailer at the construction although he was utterly unskilled.
Now at the end of the week he was worn out, although he stoutly maintained he was as good as
ever. This high-bred, energetic gentleman we had all come to admire, both for his unfailing
courtesy and his uncomplaining acceptance of hardships to which evidently he had never been
accustomed. Exactly why he underwent the terrible exertions incidental to gold finding I have
never quite fathomed. I do not believe he needed money; and I never saw one of his race fond
of hard physical work. Indeed, he was the only member of his class I ever met who would work.
The truth of the matter probably lies somewhere between an outcropping of the old adventurous
conquistadore spirit and the fascination of the golden metal itself, quite apart from its dollars-and-cents
value. Unanimously we voted in Don Gaspar as camp keeper for the first week. We wanted to give
him a rest; but I do not think we pleased him. However, he bowed to our decision with his usual
gracious courtesy. As hunting companion for Bagsby we appointed Missouri Jones, with the understanding
that every two days that office was to have a new incumbent. Johnny, McNally, and I took charge
of the dry wash, and the rest of the party tackled the bar. Of course we all--except Bagsby--were
to share equally.

Unless the wash should prove very productive we would have the worst end of it, for we had
to carry the pay dirt down to the stream's edge. For the purpose we used the pack-sacks--or
alforjas, as the Spaniards call them. Each held about sixty or seventy pounds of dirt. We found
this a sweaty and stumbly task--to stagger over the water-smoothed boulders of the wash, out
across the shingle to the edge of the stream. There one of us dumped his burden into the cradle;
and we proceeded to wash it out. We got the "colour" at once in the residuary black sand.

All morning we laboured manfully, and discovered a brand new set of muscles. By comparison
our former toil of mere digging and washing seemed light and pleasurable exercise.

"If this stuff don't run pretty high," grunted McNally, wiping the sweat from his eyes, "it's
me voting for the bar. We can't stand all day of this."

He heaved the contents of his pack-sack into the cradle, and shook it disgustedly. Suddenly
his jaw dropped and his eye widened with so poignant an expression that we both begged him,
in alarm, to tell us what was the matter.

"Now, will you look at that!" he cried.

We followed the direction of his gaze, but saw only the meadow, and the horses feeding in it,
and the thin smoke beyond, where Don Gaspar was bending his proud Castilian spirit to attend
to fried steak and flapjacks.

"Look at those horses!" cried McNally with growing indignation.

"What's the matter with them?" cried Johnny and I in a breath.

"Matter with them! Nothing!" cried McNally with comical disgust. "The matter's with us." He
rapped his knuckles on his head. "Solid, all the way through!" said he. "Why, save from nat'ral
born human imbelicity, should horses be living like gentlemen while gentlemen are working like
horses!"

We took the hint. That afternoon we saddled the pack-horses and led them, laden with the dirt,
back and forth between the ravine and the cradle.

All of us worked until rather later in the day than usual.... The hunters, too, did not return
until dark. We weighed the results of our labour with eager interest. From our cradle we had
taken eleven ounces, while those working the bar had gained just over nine. That was a good
day's work, and we were much elated.

"And most any time," exulted Johnny, "we'll run into a big pocket with thousands."

CHAPTER XXIV

THE INDIANS

Although we did not immediately run into the expected thousands, nor did the promise of that
first glorious day of discovery quite fulfil itself, nevertheless our new diggings turned out
to be very rich. We fell into routine; and the days and weeks slipped by. Bagsby and one companion
went out every day to hunt or to fish. We took turns at a vacation in camp. Every night we
"blew" our day's collection of sand, weighed the gold, and packed it away. Our accumulations
were getting to be very valuable.

For a month we lived this idyllic life quite unmolested, and had gradually come to feel that
we were so far out of the world that nothing would ever disturb us. The days seemed all alike,
clear, sparkling, cloudless. It was my first experience with the California climate, and these
things were a perpetual wonder to my New England mind.

Then one day when I was camp keeper, at the upper end of our long meadow, a number of men emerged
from the willows and hesitated uncertainly. They were too far away to be plainly distinguishable,
but I believed in taking no chances, so I fired my revolver to attract the attention of my
companions. They looked up from their labour, saw the men, and promptly came into camp.

The group still hesitated at the edge of the thicket. Then one of them waved something white.
We waved in return; whereupon they advanced slowly in our direction.

As they neared we saw them to be Indians. Their leader held before him a stick to which had
been tied a number of white feathers. As they approached us they began to leap and dance to
the accompaniment of a weird rising and falling chant. They certainly did not look very formidable,
with their heterogeneous mixture of clothing, their round, black, stupid faces and their straight
hair. Most of them were armed simply with bows and arrows, but three carried specimens of the
long Spanish musket.

Buck Barry promptly sallied out to meet them, and shook hands with the foremost. They then
advanced to where we were gathered and squatted on the ground. They were certainly a villainous
and dirty looking lot of savages, short, thickset, round faced, heavy featured, with coarse,
black, matted hair and little twinkling eyes. A more brutish lot of human beings I had never
seen; and I was almost deceived into thinking them too stupid to be dangerous. The leaders
had on remnants of civilized clothing, but the rank and file were content with scraps of blanket,
old ragged coats, single shirts, and the like. The oldest man produced a long pipe from beneath
his blanket, filled it with a few grains of coarse tobacco, lighted it by means of a coal from
our fire, puffed twice on it, and passed it to me. I perforce had to whiff at it also, though
the necessity nearly turned my stomach. I might next have given it to one of our own party,
but I did not want to deprive him of my own first hand sensation, so I handed it back to another
of the visitors for fresh inoculation, as it were. Evidently I had by accident hit on acceptable
etiquette, as deep grunts of satisfaction testified. After we had had a whiff all around, the
chief opened negotiations in Spanish. Most of us by now had learned enough of it from our intercourse
with Don Gaspar and Vasquez to understand without interpretation.

The Indians said they wanted to trade.

We replied that we saw nothing they might trade with us.

In return they produced some roots and several small bags of pine nuts.

We then explained that we were reduced in ammunition, and had little food.

Don Gaspar here interpolated hastily, saying that in his judgment it would be absolutely necessary
that we made some sort of a present to avoid the appearance of intending an affront. Buck Barry
and Jones seemed instantly to accept this necessity.

"Give them two or three of the saddle blankets," suggested Barry, after a moment's thought.
"We will have several light hosses going out; and if we have to pad the saddles we can git
along with skins or something."

We gave our visitors the blankets, therefore. They seemed well pleased, arose, and shortly
made a primitive sort of a camp a short distance outside our stockade. We did no more washing
that day. About five o'clock our hunters came in with the best meat of a blacktail deer. Bagsby
listened attentively to our account of the interview. Then he took a hindquarter of the newly
killed buck and departed for the Indians' camp, where he stayed for an hour.

"I don't think they are out for meanness," he announced when he returned. "They tell me this
yere is on a sort of short cut from some of the Truckee lakes down to their villages. But we
got to keep a sharp eye on our horses; and we got to stand guard to-night."

Very early in the morning, when we were just up, several of the elders came over to tell us
that some of the young men would stay to work for us, if we so desired. We replied that we
had no goods with which to pay for work. Shortly after, the whole tribe vanished down river.

For two nights Bagsby insisted on standing guard, and on having some of us take turns at it.
Then we declined flatly to do so any longer. The Indians had gone far downstream, as their
trail indicated to our hunters, and had shown no signs of even hesitating on the way. We fell
into our old routine, and laughed at Bagsby when he shook his head.

About this time Johnny and McNally, scrambling of a Sunday for the sake of a view, stumbled
on a small ravine that came nearer realizing our hoped-for strike than anything we had yet
seen. After "puddling out" a few potfuls of the pay dirt, we decided to move the cradles. It
was not over a half mile from camp, but was out of sight of the stockade. The move was the
occasion for a hot discussion. Bagsby wanted to reorganize, and we were reluctant.

"Thar ought to be two men in camp," said he, "and thar ought never to be less'n three together
out hunting. And that's my idee--that ye're paying me money for."

"That leaves us only four men to work the cradles," I objected. "Four men out of nine working."

"Well, thar won't be no men out of nine a-workin' if you don't watch out," predicted Bagsby.
"You-all forgit this is a self-supportin' community. We got to work for our living, as well
as for gold."

"The hunters might go out less," suggested McNally.

"The miners might eat less, then," replied Bagsby grimly. "This ain't what you'd call the best
sort of a game country."

We came to it, of course, though with much grumbling. It seemed an almost excuseless waste
of good energy; a heavy price in economic efficiency to pay for insurance against what seemed
a very remote peril. But we did not know, and our uncertainty gave way.

"But hang it!" cried Johnny, "here's more gold than a hundred men could begin to handle, and
we're wasting more than half our resources."

"It do seem so," agreed Yank with his accustomed slow philosophy. "But we can put in longer
hours because we rest oftener."

A week passed, and we had almost forgotten our chance visitors. One day the two Spaniards,
Buck Barry and I were at the cradle; Bagsby, Yank, and McNally were the hunters for the day.
Johnny and Missouri Jones kept camp.

We had had a most successful morning, and were just stacking our tools preparatory to returning
to camp for dinner. Buck Barry was standing near some small sage bushes at the upper end of
the diggings. He was just in the act of lighting a freshly filled pipe, when he stopped as
though petrified, the burning match suspended above the bowl of his pipe. Then he turned quickly
toward the sage brush; and as he did so a bow twanged and an arrow sang past his head so close
as actually to draw blood from the lobe of his ear. With a roar of anger Buck Barry raised
his pickaxe and charged into the bush. We saw a figure rise from the ground, dash away, stumble
flat. Before the man could get up again Buck Barry was upon him, and the pickaxe descended.
At the same instant we heard a series of whoops and two shots in rapid succession from the
direction of camp. Buck Barry came bounding out of the sage brush, and seized his rifle from
under the bush where we had kept them.

"Come on!" he panted. "Let's get out of this!"

We ran as hard as we could go for a hundred yards, or until we had reached the flat of the
river bottom. Then we paused, uncertain as to just what next to do.

"Wait a minute," said I. "I'll just take a look," and hurried up a little spur-knoll to the
right. From that elevation I instantly caught sight of a crowd of Indians coming up the valley
at full speed. Most of them were on horseback, but a number loped along on foot, keeping up
with the animals. One look was enough. I raced down to my companions again; and we hastily
took refuge in the only cover near enough to conceal us--a little clump of willows in a small,
damp watercourse. There we crouched, rifles ready.

I was terribly excited. The patter of the horses was now plainly audible, though, owing to
the inequalities of the ground, they could not become visible farther than a hundred yards
away. I trembled violently, and cursed myself for a coward, though I really do not think I
was frightened. At any rate, I became deadly cool the moment the first savage appeared; and
I drew a steady bead and toppled him off his horse before any one else had got in action. The
shot brought them to a stand. They had, I think, expected to find us in our ravine, and were
surprised. Immediately I dropped the butt of my rifle to the ground and began reloading. A
shower of arrows flew toward us, but were deflected by the criss-cross of the willows. In fact,
this lacework of stout branches seemed to be an excellent sort of armour against arrows. In
the meantime my companions had each dropped his man; though Vasquez had better luck than skill,
as his savage was only clipped in the leg. I fired once more, and elicited a howl. There could
be no missing at the distance, unless a man quite lost his head; and personally I was too scared
for that. Another shower of arrows rattled in the willows; then the band broke to right and
left and raced away up the hills like mad. They had no courage, and lost stomach for the fight
at once when they found us prepared.

We were astonished and delighted, for we had fully expected to be ridden down. As soon as we
were quite certain this sudden retreat was not a ruse, we came out from our shelter. How many
wounded had made off--if any--we could not tell. Three dead bodies lay on the ground. To them
we paid no attention, but, with many forebodings, hurried back to camp.

When we appeared in sight Missouri Jones ran out to meet us, his rifle over his arm.

"Where's Johnny?" I cried.

"He was down at the river a-getting water," said Jones, "and I ain't seen him since."

We all ran down to the edge of the river pool whence we drew our supply. For a moment our hearts
stood still, for no Johnny was in sight. Then he arose dripping from the middle of the pool.

"This water's cold," he remarked conversationally. "I think I'll come out. Anybody hurt?"

He waded ashore, and shook himself like a dog.

"I didn't hear 'em until they were right on top of me; and I couldn't get away without being
seen," said he; "so I just waded out and imitated a rock with my head."

We roared with laughter by way of relief.

"It isn't the first time, Johnny," said I.

"That's all right," put in Missouri Jones. "This is no joke. They got three of our hosses."

Then he told us his experience.

"I was just a-browning of the venison," he explained, "when I happened to look up, and thar
was three of our hosses running off, tails up, and a half dozen Injuns a hoss-back driving
'em. I let drive with old Betsey and Johnny's gun, but they was about out of range. While I
was looking after them about forty Injuns went past sky-hootin'. I suppose they thought the
first lot had all the hosses, and so they didn't stop. The rest of the hosses, luckily, was
asleep behind the cottonwoods. You bet I didn't call their attention to myself."

He exhibited the greatest satisfaction when he learned that we had accounted for four.

"That's something like Injun fighting," he observed, "though these are a pore, spiritless lot.
The whole bag ain't worth more than one of them good hosses."

We did no more gold washing that day, but remained close in camp, consumed with anxiety for
our companions. From time to time we fired a rifle, with the idea of warning them that something
was amiss. The remaining half-dozen horses we ran into the corral.

Night fell and still the hunters did not return. We were greatly alarmed and distressed, but
we could not think of anything to do, for we had not the least idea in what direction to look.

"Bagsby and Yank are old hands," speculated Missouri Jones consolingly. "And the fact that
Injuns is abroad would make them slow and careful."

None of us felt like turning in. We all sat outside on the ground around a little fire.

Toward midnight we heard voices; and a moment later Yank and Bagsby strode in out of the darkness.

"Where's McNally?" Yank instantly demanded. "Hasn't he come in yet?"

We told him we had seen nothing of the missing man.

"Well, he'll drift in pretty soon," said Bagsby. "We lost him in the darkness not two hours back."

They set to frying some venison steak. Excitedly and in antiphony Johnny and I detailed the
day's adventure. Both the backwoodsmen listened in silence, but without suspending their cooking.

"They didn't bother McNally," Bagsby decided. "They'd drive those hosses away five or six miles
before they'd stop; and McNally was with us just a little piece back. He'll be in by the time
the venison is cooked."

But he was not; nor by an hour later. Then we decided that we must go out to look for him.

"We can't see nothin' till daylight," said Bagsby, "but we can get started back for the last
place we saw him."

It was now about one o'clock in the morning. Bagsby appointed Vasquez, Missouri Jones, Buck
Barry, Yank and myself to accompany him. Don Gaspar was suffering from a slight attack of malarial
fever; and Johnny, to his vast disgust, was left to hold him company. We took each a horse,
which we had to ride bareback and with a twisted rope "war halter."

Bagsby led the way, and we followed closely nose to tail. It was an interesting and wonderful
experience, had I had more attention to give it, for we rode mysteriously neck deep in velvet
darkness over strange hills, and awful shapes rose mysteriously, and the sky silvered with
stars like the glittering of little waves. But my mind was filled with dread and foreboding,
and a great anxiety for our merry, blue-eyed companion, and a very considerable wonder as to
how our guide managed to find his way.

He did not hesitate, however, as to direction; only occasionally he had to stop and cast back
and around for a way through. Often, at a low command from him, we dismounted and led our animals.

We proceeded thus for a long time--five or six miles, I should think. By the undefined feeling
of dark space at either hand I judged we must be atop a ridge. Bagsby halted.

"It was somewhere on this ridge we left him," said he. "I reckon now we'd just better set down
and wait for dawn."

Accordingly we dismounted and drew together in a little group. Over the top of the great ranges
a gibbous moon rose slowly. By her dim light I could make out the plunge on either side our
ridge, and the other dark ridges across the way. Behind us our horses occasionally stamped
a hoof or blew softly through their noses.

I lay flat on my back, and idly counted the stars. Happening to glance sidewise, I caught the
flicker of a distant light.