Ulysses, as the wise man, or rather as the intellectual Hero of his age, must go through the
experience in question; he cannot return to home and country, and be fully reconciled with
his institutional life here and now, without having seen what is eternal and abiding in the
soul. The wanderer must wander thither, the absolute necessity lies upon him--and he must fetch
back word about what he saw, and thus be a mediator between the sensible and supersensible,
between time and eternity. In that way he means something to his people, becomes, in fact,
their Great Man, helping them vicariously in this life to rise beyond life. The complete Return,
then, involves the descending to Hades, the beholding the shapes there, and the coming back
with the report to the living. Perhaps we ought to consider just this to be the culmination
of the whole journey, the grand adventure embracing all possible adventures.

The connection with the preceding Book can not be too strongly enforced. Circe points out the
way to Ulysses; her nature is to point to the Beyond, to which she cannot herself pass. In
her last phase, she was spirit, but still in the sensuous form; that spirit in her, as in all
true art and even in the world, points to its pure realm, where it is freed from the trammels
of the senses. This gives the main characteristic of Homeric Hades; it is the supersensible
world, outside of Space and Time; or, rather with its own Space and Time, since it is still
an image.

Hence these mythical statements which seek to get beyond all known geographical limits. Ulysses
had to cross the Ocean stream, which ran round the whole earth; to go over it was indeed to
go over the border. There below is the gloomy grove of Proserpine; there too, are the four
rivers of the Lower Regions, with names terribly suggestive; into Acheron the stream of pain
(or lake) flow Pyriphlegethon (Fire-flames) and Cocytus (the Howler), the latter being an offshoot
of Styx (Hate or Terror). Where "the two loud-sounding rivers meet" the third one (Acheron)
is a rock, a firm protected spot seemingly, there with mystic rites is the invocation of the
dead to take place.

Thus we see that the poet's description remains spatial in his attempt to get beyond space.
He has to express himself in images taken from the sensible world, even while pushing them
beyond into the supersensible. He makes us feel that the image is inadequate, though he has
to use it; poetry is driven upon its very limit. At this point specially we note the kinship
of the Odyssey with Romantic Art, which through the finite form suggests the Infinite. Dante
comes to mind, whose great poem is one vast struggle of the limited symbol with the unlimited
spirit which is symbolized. Thus the old Greek song becomes prophetic, foreshadowing the next
great world-poem, or Literary Bible, written in the light of a new epoch.

Strong is the sympathy which one feels with the ancient singer in this attempt to probe the
deepest mystery of our existence. He must have reflected long and profoundly upon such a theme,
building in this Book a world of spirits, and laying down the lines of it for all futurity.
Probably the most gigantic conception in literature: the universal Hero, ere he can round the
complete cycle of experience, must pass through the Beyond and come back to the Present. It
deepens the idea of the Return, till it embraces the totality of existence, by making it reach
through the Underworld, which is thus a domain in the spiritual circumnavigation of the globe.

The structure of the Book is somewhat intricate and it requires quite a little search to find
the lines upon which it is built. It has at the first glance a rather scattered, disorganized
look; for this reason the analytic critics have fallen upon it in particular, and have sought
to tear it into fragments. It is possible that some few lines may have been interpolated, but
it remains an organic whole, and the final insight into it comes from viewing it in its total
constructive movement.

As the Book is an effort to make a bridge between the sensible and supersensible realms, manifestly
this separation into two realms will constitute the fundamental division. The diremption into
soul and body, into life and death, runs through the entire narrative, also that into men and
women; but the main distinction is into Past and Present. The sensible world when canceled
becomes Past, the distant in Time and possibly in Space; this Past through its characters,
its spirits, is made to communicate with the Present.

Moreover the Past has its distinctions. To the Greek mind of Homer's age, specially in Phæacia,
the Trojan War is the grand central fact of the aforetime; thus the Past divides into the Pre-Trojan,
Trojan, and immediate Past, in the Book before us. A complete sweep down into the Now is given--the
sweep of the supersensible. Also the Present has two representatives: Ulysses along with his
companions, and the Phæacians.

In the Past, therefore, is arranged a long gallery of souls speaking to the Present, which
listens and also has its communication. The problem now is to get a structural form which will
hold the idea. Let the following scheme be sent in advance, which scheme, however, can only
be verified or understood at the close of the Book on a careful review.

I. The first great communication of the dead and past to the living and present, by voice and
by vision; some speak, others are only seen.

1. The present and living element is made up of Ulysses and his companions who are invoking
by their rites and prayers the souls of the Underworld. The companion Elpenor dead, but not
yet buried, forms the transition between the Present and Past.

2. The past and dead element, Pre-Trojan, is called up in two general forms: the ancient seer
Tiresias who is both Past and Future through his mind, and, secondly, the souls of Famous Women,
who pass in review before the Present. The hint of a world-justice runs through both the prophecies
of the seer and the destinies of some of these women.

II. The second grand communication of the dead and past, now Trojan--to the living and present,
now Phæacian prominently, given by voice and vision.

1. The Present is here not only Ulysses far off in Hades, but the Phæacians in their actual
sensible world. The latter demand again the grand background and presupposition of their present
life--the Trojan epoch represented in its great spirits.

2. The Past, Trojan, in three typical Greek heroes, Agamemnon, Achilles, Ajax. The three typical
Greek women of the Trojan epoch are also mentioned. An implicit idea of punishment, or of heroic
limitation brought home to the hero, is traceable in this portion.

III. The idea of a world-justice with its universal judgment, hitherto only implied, now becomes
explicit in Hades and organizes itself, showing (1) the judge, Minos, (2) the culprits in four
condemned ones, (3) the saved one, Hercules, who rises out of Hades through the deed. By implication
so does the living Ulysses--hence the journey is at an end, Hades is conquered.

I.

Ulysses follows the direction of Circe, indeed he is propelled by the wind which she sends,
to the "confines of the Ocean stream," to the limits of this terrestrial Upperworld. Here is
the land of the Cimmerians, "hid in fog and in cloud," which veils the realm of the dead; here
the sun sends no beam, either rising or setting. Again it is possible that the poet may have
heard some dim account of the regions of the extreme North. But the significance of the Cimmerians
is to shadow forth the dark border-land between life and death, which is here that between
the limited and the unlimited. We see the strong attempt of the poet to get beyond limitation
in its twofold appearance: first he will transcend the external boundary of the Homeric horizon,
that of the sea stretching far to the westward; still more emphatic is his effort to transcend
the limits of finite thinking and to reach an infinite realm, which is the goal of the spirit.
He sweeps out of sensuous space, yet the poetic imagination has to remain in space after all,
though it be a new space of its own creation. In like manner, he has to give the disembodied
souls some finite nourishment in the shape of food and blood, in order that they become real.
We feel in these dark Cimmerian limits his wrestle to pass over to the supersensible by thought.

I. The Present is represented by Ulysses and his companions, who now perform the rites consisting
of a sacrifice and prayer to "the nations of the dead." We may find in the libation of "mingled
honey, sweet wine, and water," a suggestion of the tissues and fluids of the body, while the
blood of the sacrificed animals hints the principle of vitality. When the disembodied spirit
tastes these elements, it gets a kind of body again, sufficient at least to be able to speak.
That the sheep must be black is curiously symbolical, hinting the harmony expressed in the
color of the animal and of Hades.

The souls "came thronging out of Erebus," eager to communicate. This aspiration must thus be
their general condition; they wish to hear from us as much as we wish to hear from them. Hence
there must be a selection, which involves a new rite, the flaying and the burning of the carcasses
of the animals along with "prayer to Pluto and Proserpine" king and queen of the Underworld.
Yet this choice requires activity from the hero, who has to draw his sword and keep off the
crowd of spirits, till the right one comes, the Theban seer Tiresias.

Thus is the Past linked into the Present, which to receive the communications of the departed
by means of a ritual, in whose symbolism we see the effort of the living to know the Beyond.
Now occurs a curious incident: Ulysses beholds his companion Elpenor, dead, yet unburned, and
hears his first message. This soul can still speak, and be seen; it hovers half way between
the two worlds, having still a material phase of the body which has not yet been burnt. Elpenor
tells the nature of his death: "some deity and too much wine" did the thing--a combination
which is usually effective in Homer. An unhappy condition, suspended between matter and spirit;
he begs that it be ended. But the poor fellow has another request which shows the longing of
the humblest Greek--the longing for the immortality of fame. "Make a tomb beside the seashore
for me, an unfortunate man, of whom posterity may hear." Thus he too will live in the mouths
of men; wherein we catch possibly a gleam of Homer himself, who has certainly erected an imperishable
monument to Elpenor, voicing the aspiration of the soul even in Hades.

It is the hint of a deep maternal instinct that Anticleia, "my mother deceased" comes at once
to the blood and wishes communication. But Ulysses must first hear Tiresias, the strongest
ties of Family are subordinate to the great purpose. Surely all are now ready to listen to
the Past with its message; here comes its spirit, voiced with a fresh power.

II. We have just had the Present, and in the case of Elpenor, the immediate Past, which is
not yet wholly gone. Next we take a leap to the Past of long ago, to the Pre-Trojan time, whose
spirits will appear. Two sets of them, divided according to sex into man and woman, we behold.
But the man here is the prophet, hence what he says belongs to the Future, into which Ulysses
now gets a glimpse.

Thus both Future and Past are given their place in the supersensible realm, both being abstractions
from the Present, which is the reality, the world of the senses. Yet that which is abiding
and eternal knows not Past, Present, or Future, or knows them all equally, having that which
is common to them all, being indeed the principle of them all. In a sense we may say that Tiresias
is Past, Present and Future, he is the voice of the Past speaking in the Present foretelling
the Future. Then the Famous Women come forth, whose fame causes them to appear now and to be
recorded. Thus the poet takes the two ancient sets and suggests that which underlies them both
and makes them ever present.

1. Tiresias, though he spans the three dimensions of Time, is essentially the prophet, and
so his stress is upon the Future. His body has been long dead, but his mind is left in its
untrammeled activity; he may be considered as the purest essence of spirit. No senses obstruct
his vision, he sees the eternal and unchangeable law; yet he must throw it into images and
apply it to special cases. What a conception for a primitive poet! We feel in this figure of
Tiresias that Homer himself is prophetic, foreshadowing the pure ideas or archetypal forms
of Plato, and that he, in his struggle for adequate expression of thought, is calling for,
and in fact calling forth, Greek philosophy.

Tiresias speaks at first without drinking of the blood, yet he has to drink of it to tell his
prophecy. This little contradiction is not vital, let it not trouble us. The prophetic announcement
to Ulysses includes four special cases. First, the Hero must have his struggle with Neptune
on his way homeward, the God will avenge the blinding of his son, though that blinding had
to take place; every man who overcomes a great power, even a natural power, will get the backstroke
of his own deed. The very ship of Ulysses, which defies Neptune, exposes itself to a conflict
which it might avoid, did it not undertake to master the God's element; such is the penalty
of all victory. Secondly, he must keep down appetite, particularly at the Trinacrian Isle,
and not slay the Oxen of the Sun, else the penalty will follow there too. Not to keep down
passion and appetite is clearly to eat of those oxen in some way, which will be more carefully
scrutinized hereafter. Then, thirdly, "thou shalt avenge the violent deeds of the Suitors,
when thou hast returned home."

The common ground in these three cases of prophetic insight is retribution for the act done
there above on earth. The penalty is as certain in the future as it has been in the past; violation
brings punishment. Ulysses has had that experience often; note it is told him, or, if you wish
to think the matter in that way, he tells it to himself for his own future experience. So the
Prophet sees the universal law, he knows what abides in all the fleeting appearances of the
world. Ulysses also, were he to descend into the depths of his own soul, would find the same
prophecy; indeed this descent into Hades is also the descent into himself, as well as into
the outer supersensible world. The hero in his intellectual journey has gone far, we can now
behold him near the eternal verities.

But the fourth statement of the Prophet is here too, it is the word of promise. When this last
conflict with the Suitors is over, then be reconciled with Neptune by a fitting sacrifice (which
means that Ulysses should quit the watery element) give hecatombs to the Immortals, recognize
them and their rule. Then serene old age will take thee off remote from the sea and all struggle,
among a happy people, whom thou hast made happy. Such is the promise, extending quite beyond
the limits of the Odyssey, which ends not at the death of Ulysses, but with his last conflict.
So there is hope amid all this struggle, hope of becoming the complete man, who has reached
harmony with the Gods, with his people, and with himself.

In such fashion Tiresias calls into vision the course of the entire poem, and reaches even
beyond it, embracing the whole life of Ulysses, till he too descends for the last time into
Hades. Verily the prophet is Past, Present and Future; his true abode is in the realm of pure
spirit. He foretells, but the Future is prefigured as the outcome of what is universal; it
must be so and not otherwise, else is the world a chaos. Thus Tiresias is put at the beginning,
he being the typical person of this Underworld, in which the deities, Pluto and Proserpine,
do not appear, being held in the dark background. The prophet telling his prophecy is the very
Figure of the Supersensible.

But again let us be reminded that these hints of pure universal thought are borne to us in
images, in particular shapes, whereby ambiguity rises, and meaning runs double. Nevertheless
the true-hearted reader will go down with the old poet into Hades, and there behold in these
images things which lie beyond the senses; he will behold the very spirit of ancient Tiresias.

2. Having seen the Man, Ulysses is next to behold the Famous Women of the Past, which is still
Pre-Trojan with one exception. Examples from all the relations of the woman in the Family are
given: the mother, the maiden, the wife. Tragic and happy instances are brought before us--ideal
forms taken from the ancient Mythus of Hellas, and begetting in later times a prodigious number
of works of art, in poetry, sculpture and painting. Here they are put into Hades, the place
of the spirit unbodied, which will hereafter take on body in the drama, in the statue, and
in the picture. Ulysses witnesses these shapes in advance, and gives their idea, which is to
be realized in the coming ages of Hellas. Truly is Homer the primordial Hellenic seer, he who
sees and sets forth the archetypal forms of the future of his race. Undoubtedly he drew from
mythical stores already existent, but he ordered them, shaped them anew, and breathed into
them the breath of eternal life. No wonder the universal Greek hero must go to Hades to see
these forms of the Past which are, however, to live afresh in the Future.

We must also consider the audience of the singer. Who are present? First of all, Arete, mother
and wife, together with Nausicaa, the maiden, to these he is specially singing. Their importance
in the Phæacian world has been already indicated; naturally they wish to hear of woman in the
Family. Accordingly this portion of the Eleventh Book, the catalogue of Famous Women, or Homer's
"Legende of Good Women," is organized after the relations of domestic life. Three classes are
suggested: the mothers; the maidens and the wives, of the grey aforetime.

But by all means the glory and the stress of the song are given to the mothers; the other two
classes are very briefly dismissed, as being essentially described in the first. Arete is indeed
the grand center and end of womanhood; Nausicaa as maid is but a transitory phase, and as wife
she is to become mother, and then take her supreme place in the chain which upholds and perpetuates
humanity. So the old Greek poet must have thought; was he very far from right?

    a. The first of these mothers to appear is Anticleia, the mother
    of the Hero Ulysses, of the Hero who has made this remarkable
    voyage to the world beyond, of its kind the supreme heroic act done
    by a living mortal. She, however, belongs to the immediate Past,
    and thus corresponds to the man, Elpenor, in the previous section,
    though she of course has been buried. Note, therefore, this mark of
    symmetrical structure.

    It is the beautiful instinct of the mother, that she flits in the
    ghost-world to her son at once, when the chance is afforded. She
    has already appeared, even before Tiresias came; now she is the
    first after that prophet, who gives directions to Ulysses
    supplicating: "Tell me, O Prophet, how shall my mother recognize me
    as her son." Ulysses learns much from her about Ithaca, especially
    about his father Laertes, who now never goes to the town but stays
    in the fields, "with a great sorrow in his heart, desiring thy
    return, while old age weighs hard upon him." Such is the father,
    still living, whom Ulysses may yet see.

    The mother died from longing for her son and "the memory of his
    gentleness;" still her longing brings her to him in the life
    beyond. The great revelation is concerning the future state: the
    soul is immortal, this fact Ulysses is to tell in Phæacia. The
    strong desire to behold the loved ones who have passed away is
    indeed the impulse; but they too return, though insubstantial. It
    is the primary groundwork of faith in immortality--this feeling of
    the domestic relation affirming that it is eternal and cannot be
    broken by death. Still the mother is but a ghost and cannot be
    embraced; this the son has to accept, though he would have her in
    flesh and blood.

    b. At once there is the transition to the famous mothers of
    legend--"wives and daughters of Heroes" says the poet, with, an eye
    to his audience, which has men in it also, so he does not mention
    mothers, though they are the burden of his strain. Here follows a
    Catalogue of Women, giving them their due place in the genealogy
    and destiny of distinguished houses. Three groups of these mothers
    we may distinguish.

    First is the group of mortal women who were embraced by some god,
    and gave birth to heroic offspring. Tyro met Neptune and brought
    forth Pelias and Neleus; from the latter sprang Nestor who connects
    the Pre-Trojan and Trojan ages, since he appears both in the Iliad
    and Odyssey. In the Third Book of the latter epos we have already
    seen Nestor sacrificing to his divine ancestor; so the present
    passage has its pertinence to the total poem. In the same group are
    Antiope and Alemena, the latter of whom was the mother of Hercules,
    whose father was Zeus. At the end of the present Book, Hercules
    himself will appear as the supreme example of the Greek Hero.

    Such were three typical mothers, famed in Hellenic legend, being
    the women who bore Heroes, the offspring of Gods. It was deemed the
    highest function of the Greek mother to bring forth a Hero, the
    child of divinity, with an immortal portion. This view, in its
    purely sensuous aspect, is dubious enough to the modern ethical
    mind, still its real meaning must be looked at with sympathetic
    vision, which sees therein the divine descent into mortal flesh, a
    mythical utterance of the faith that the great man is the son of
    God. The Christian view universalizes this conception, holding that
    all men, and not merely the Heroes, are God's children. Yet the
    Christian world has also retained its faith in the Son of God, son
    by a mortal woman, which faith the old Greek had too, and expressed
    in his way. Thus we may extract out of this Homeric account
    something more than divine license; it has indeed a wonderful
    pre-Christian suggestiveness, and gives a glimpse of the movement
    of Universal Religion.

