Flamsted Quarries

                          BY MARY E. WALLER

Author of "The Wood Carver of Lympus," "The Daughter of the Rich," "The Little Citizen," etc.

WITH FOUR ILLUSTRATIONS BY G. PATRICK NELSON

A. L. BURT COMPANY PUBLISHERS NEW YORK

Copyright, 1910, BY MARY E. WALLER Published September, 1910

Reprinted, September, 1910; November, 1910; December, 1910

TO THOSE WHO TOIL

Contents

THE BATTERY IN LIEU OF A PREFACE

PART FIRST, A CHILD FROM THE VAUDEVILLE

PART SECOND, HOME SOIL

PART THIRD, IN THE STREAM

PART FOURTH, OBLIVION

PART FIFTH, SHED NUMBER TWO

THE LAST WORD

Illustrations

"She sang straight on, verse after verse without pause"

"Those present loved in after years to recall this scene"

"What a picture she made leaning caressingly against the charmed and patient Bess"

"'Unworthy--unworthy!' was Champney Googe's cry, as he knelt before Aileen"

FLAMSTED QUARRIES

                       "Abysmal deeps repose
    Beneath the stout ship's keel whereon we glide;
    And if a diver plunge far down within
    Those depths and to the surface safe return,
    His smile, if so it chance he smile again,
    Outweighs in worth all gold."

The Battery in Lieu of a Preface

A few years ago, at the very tip of that narrow rocky strip of land that has been well named
"the Tongue that laps the Commerce of the World," the million-teeming Island of Manhattan,
there was daily presented a scene in the life-drama of our land that held in itself, as in
solution, a great national ideal. The old heroic "Epic of the Nations" was still visible to
the naked eye, and masquerading here among us of the then nineteenth century in the guise of
the arrival of the immigrant ship.

The scenic setting is in this instance incomparably fine. As we lean on the coping of the sea
wall at the end of the green-swarded Battery, in the flush of a May sunset that, on the right,
throws the Highlands of the Navesink into dark purple relief and lights the waters of Harbor,
River, and Sound into a softly swelling roseate flood, we may fix our eyes on the approach
to The Narrows and watch the incoming shipping of the world: the fruit-laden steamer from the
Bermudas, the black East Indiaman heavy with teakwood and spices, the lumberman's barge awash
behind the tow, the old three-masted schooner, low in the water, her decks loaded with granite
from the far-away quarries of Maine. We may see, if we linger, the swift approach of a curiously
foreshortened ocean steamship, her smokestack belching blackness, and the slower on-coming
of a Norwegian bark, her sails catching the sunset light and gleaming opaline against the clear
blue of the southern horizon. These last are the immigrant ships.

An hour later in old Castle Garden the North and South of Europe clasp hands on the very threshold
of America. Four thousand feet are planted on the soil of the New World. Four thousand hands
are knocking at its portals. Two thousand hearts are beating high with hope at prospect of
the New, or palpitating with terror at contact with the Strange.

A thousand tragedies, a thousand comedies are here enacted before our very eyes: hopes, fears,
tears, laughter, shrieks, groans, wailings, exultant cries, welcoming words, silent all-expressing
hand-clasp, embrace, despairing wide-eyed search, hopeless isolation, the befriended, the friendless,
the home-welcomed, the homeless--all commingled.

But an official routine soon sorts, separates, pairs, locates; speaks in Norwegian, speaks
in Neapolitan. An hour passes; the dusk falls; the doors are opened; the two thousand, ticketed,
labelled, are to enter upon the new life. The confusing chatter grows less and less. A child
wails, and is hushed in soft Italian--a Neapolitan lullaby--by its mother as she sits on a
convenient bench and for the first time gives her little one the breast in a strange land.
An old Norwegian, perhaps a lineal descendant of our Viking visitors some thousand years ago,
makes his way to the door, bent beneath a sack-load of bedding; his right hand holds his old
wife's left. They are the last to leave.

The dusk has fallen. To the sea wall again for air after the thousands of garlic-reeking breaths
in old Castle Garden. The sea is dark. The heavens are deep indigo; against them flashes the
Liberty beacon; within them are set the Eternal Lights. Upon the waters of the harbor the illumined
cabin windows of a multitude of river craft throw quivering rays along the slow glassy swell.

For a moment on River, and Harbor, and Sound, there is silence. But behind us we hear the subdued
roar and beat of the metropolis, a sound comparable to naught else on earth or in heaven: the
mighty systole and dyastole of a city's heart, and the tramp, tramp of a million homeward bound
toilers--the marching tune of Civilization's hosts, to which the feet of the newly arrived
immigrants are already keeping time, for they have crossed the threshold of old Castle Garden
and entered the New World.

PART FIRST

A Child from the Vaudeville

I

The performance in itself was crude and commonplace, but the demonstration in regard to it
was unusual. Although this scene had been enacted both afternoon and evening for the past six
weeks, the audience at the Vaudeville was showing its appreciation by an intent silence.

The curtain had risen upon a street scene in the metropolis at night. Snow was falling, dimming
the gas jets at the corner and half-veiling, half-disclosing the imposing entrance-porch of
a marble church. The doors were closed; the edifice dark. As the eyes of the onlookers became
accustomed to the half-lights, they were aware of a huddle of clothes against the iron railing
that outlined the curve of the three broad entrance-steps. As vision grew keener the form of
a child was discernible, a little match girl who was lighting one by one a few matches and
shielding the flame with both hands from the draught. Suddenly she looked up and around. The
rose window above the porch was softly illumined; the light it emitted transfused the thickly
falling snow. Low organ tones became audible, although distant and muffled.

The child rose; came down the centre of the stage to the lowered footlights and looked about
her, first at the orchestra, then around and up at the darkened house that was looking intently
at her--a small ill-clad human, a spiritual entity, the only reality in this artificial setting.
She grasped her package of matches in both hands; listened a moment as if to catch the low
organ tones, then began to sing.

She sang as a bird sings, every part of her in motion: throat, eyes, head, body. The voice
was clear, loud, full, strident, at times, on the higher notes from over-exertion, but always
childishly appealing. The gallery leaned to catch every word of "The Holy City."

She sang straight on, verse after verse without pause. There was no modulation, no phrasing,
no interpretation; it was merely a steady fortissimo outpouring of a remarkable volume of tone
for so small an instrument. And the full power of it was, to all appearance, sent upwards with
intent to the gallery. In any case, the gallery took the song unto itself, and as the last
words, "Hosanna for evermore" rang upward, there was audible from above a long-drawn universal
"Ah!" of satisfaction.

It was followed by a half minute of silence that was expressive of latent enthusiasm. The child
was still waiting at the footlights, evidently for the expected applause from the higher latitudes.
And the gallery responded--how heartily, those who were present have never forgotten: roar
upon roar, call upon call, round after round of applause, cries of approbation couched in choice
Bowery slang, a genuine stampede that shook the spectators in their seats. It was an irresistible,
insatiable, unappeasable, overwhelming clamor for more. The infection of enthusiasm was communicated
to floors, balconies, boxes; they answered, as it were, antiphonally. Faces were seen peeking
from the wings; hands were visible there, clapping frantically. In the midst of the tumultuous
uproar the little girl smiled brightly and ran off the stage.

The lights were turned on. A drop-scene fell; the stage was transformed, for, in the middle
distance, swelling green hills rose against a soft blue sky seen between trees in the foreground.
Sunshine lay on the landscape, enhancing the haze in the distance and throwing up the hills
more prominently against it. The cries and uproar continued.

Meanwhile, in the common dressing-room beyond the wings, there was being enacted a scene which
if slightly less tumultuous in expression was considerably more dangerous in quality. A quick
word went the round of the stars' private rooms; it penetrated to the sanctum of the Japanese
wrestlers; it came to the ear of the manager himself: "The Little Patti's struck!" It sounded
ominous, and, thereupon, the Vaudeville flocked to the dressing-room door to see--what? Merely
a child in a tantrum, a heap of rags on the floor, a little girl in white petticoats stamping,
dancing, pulling away from an old Italian woman who was trying to robe her and exhorting, imploring,
threatening the child in almost one and the same breath.

The manager rushed to the rescue for the house was losing its head. He seized the child by
the arm. "What's the matter here, Aileen?"

"I ain't goin' ter dance a coon ter-night--not ter-night!" she cried defiantly and in intense
excitement; "he's in the box again, an' I'm goin' to give him the Sunday-night song, like as
I did before when he give me the flowers, so now!"

Nonna Lisa, the old Italian, slipped the white dress deftly over the mutinous head, so muffling
the half-shriek. The manager laughed. "Hurry up then--on with you!" The child sprang away with
a bound. "I've seen this too many times before," he added; "it's an attack of 'the last night's
nerves.'--Hark!"

The tumult was drowning the last notes of the orchestral intermezzo, as the little girl, clad
now wholly in white, ran in upon the stage and coming again down the centre raised her hand
as if to command silence. With the gallery to see was to obey; the floor and balconies having
subsided the applause from above died away.

The child, standing in the full glare of the footlights with the sunny skyey spaces and overlapping
blue hills behind her, half-faced the brilliant house as, without accompaniment, she began to sing:

    "There is a green hill far away
      Without a city wall."

The childish voice sustained the simple melody perfectly, and it was evident when the little
girl began the second verse that she was singing wholly to please herself and some one in a
proscenium box. Before the close of the first stanza the gallery experienced a turn, the audience
as a whole a sensation. Night after night the gallery gods had made it a point to be present
at that hour of the continuous performance when the Little Patti--such was the name on the
poster--sang either her famous Irish song "Oh, the praties they are small", or "The Holy City",
and followed them by a coon dance the like of which was not to be seen elsewhere in New York;
for into it the child threw such an abandonment of enthusiasm that she carried herself and
her audience to the verge of extravagance--the one in action, the other in expression.

And now this!

A woman sobbed outright at the close of the second verse. The gallery heard--it hated hysterics--and
considered whether it should look upon itself as cheated and protest, or submit quietly to
being coerced into approval. The scales had not yet turned, when someone far aloft drew a long
breath in order to force it out between closed teeth, and this in sign of disapproval. That
one breath was, in truth, indrawn, but whether or no there was ever an outlet for the same
remained a question with the audience. A woollen cap was deftly and unexpectedly thrust between
the malevolent lips and several pair of hands held it there until the little singer left the stage.

What appeal, if any, that childish voice, dwelling melodiously on the simple words, made to
the audience as a whole, cannot be stated because unknown; but that it appealed powerfully
by force of suggestion, by the power of imagination, by the law of association, by the startling
contrast between the sentiment expressed and the environment of that expression, to three,
at least, among the many present is a certainty.

There is such a thing in our national life--a constant process, although often unrecognized--as
social anastomosis: the intercommunication by branch of every vein and veinlet of the politico-social
body, and thereby the coming into touch of lives apparently alien. As a result we have a revelation
of new experiences; we find ourselves in subjection to new influences of before unknown personalities;
we perceive the opening-up of new channels of communication between individual and individual
as such. We comprehend that through it a great moral law is brought into operation both in
the individual and the national life. And in recognition of this natural, though oft hidden
process, the fact that to three men in that audience--men whose life-lines, to all appearance,
were divergent, whose aims and purposes were antipodal--the simple song made powerful appeal,
and by means of that appeal they came in after life to comprehend something of the workings
of this great natural law, need cause no wonderment, no cavilling at the so-called prerogative
of fiction. The laws of Art are the laws of Life, read smaller on the obverse.

The child was singing the last stanza in so profound a silence that the fine snapping of an
over-charged electric wire was distinctly heard:

    "Oh, dearly, dearly has he loved
      And we must love him too,
    And trust in his redeeming blood,
      And try his works to do."

The little girl waited at the footlights for--something. She had done her best for an encore
and the silence troubled her. She looked inquiringly towards the box. There was a movement
of the curtains at the back; a messenger boy came in with flowers; a gentleman leaned over
the railing and motioned to the child. She ran forward, holding up the skirt of her dress to
catch the roses that were dropped into it. She smiled and said something. The tension in the
audience gave a little; there was a low murmur of approval which increased to a buzz of conversation;
the conductor raised his baton and the child with a courtesy ran off the stage. But there was
no applause.

During the musical intermezzo that followed, the lower proscenium box was vacated and in the
first balcony one among a crowd of students rose and made his way up the aisle.

"Lien's keller, Champ?" said a friend at the exit, putting a hand on his shoulder; "I'm with you."

"Not to-night." He shook off the detaining hand and kept on his way. The other stared after
him, whistled low to himself and went down the aisle to the vacant seat.

At the main entrance of the theatre there was an incoming crowd. It was not late, only nine.
The drawing-card at this hour was a famous Parisian singer of an Elysée café chantant. The
young fellow stepped aside, beyond the ticket-office railing, to let the first force of the
inrushing human stream exhaust itself before attempting egress for himself. In doing so he
jostled rather roughly two men who were evidently of like mind with him in their desire to
avoid the press. He lifted his hat in apology, and recognized one of them as the occupant of
the proscenium box, the gentleman who had given the roses to the little singer. The other,
although in citizen's dress, he saw by the tonsure was a priest.

The sight of such a one in that garb and that environment, diverted for the moment Champney
Googe's thoughts from the child and her song. He scanned the erect figure of the man who, after
immediate and courteous recognition of the other's apology, became oblivious, apparently, of
his presence and intent upon the passing throng.

The crowd thinned gradually; the priest passed out under the arch of colored electric lights;
the gentleman of the box, observing the look on the student's face, smiled worldly-wisely to
himself as he, too, went down the crimson-carpeted incline. Champney Googe's still beardless
lip had curled slightly as if his thought were a sneer.

II

The priest, after leaving the theatre, walked rapidly down Broadway past the marble church,
that had been shown on the stage, and still straight on for two miles at the same rapid gait,
past the quiet churchyards of St. Paul's and Trinity into the comparative silence of Battery
Park and across to the sea wall. There he leaned for half an hour, reliving in memory not only
the years since his seven-year old feet had crossed this threshold of the New World, but recalling
something of his still earlier childhood in his native France. The child's song had been an
excitant to the memory in recalling those first years in Auvergne.

    "There is a green hill far away
      Without a city wall."

How clearly he saw that! and his peasant father and mother as laborers on or about it, and
himself, a six-year old, tending the goats on that same green hill or minding the geese in
the meadows at its foot.

All this he saw as he gazed blankly at the dark waters of the bay, saw clearly as if visioned
in crystal. But of subsequent movings and wanderings there was a blurred reflection only, till
the vision momentarily brightened, the outlines defined themselves again as he saw his tired
drowsy self put to bed in a tiny room that was filled with the fragrance of newly baked bread.
He remembered the awakening in that small room over a bread-filled shop; it belonged to a distant
great-uncle baker on the mother's side, a personage in the family because in trade. He could
remember the time spent in that same shop and the brick-walled, brick-floored, brick-ovened
room behind it. He recalled having stood for hours, it might have been days, he could not remember--for
then Time was forever and its passing of no moment--before the deep ovens with a tiny blue-eyed
slip of a girl. P'tite Truite, Little Trout, they called her, the great-uncle baker's one grandchild.

And the shop--he remembered that, so light and bright and sweet and clean, with people coming
and going--men and women and children--and the crisp yard-long loaves carried away in shallow
baskets on many a fine Norman head in the old seaport of Dieppe. And always the Little Trout
was by his side, even when the great-uncle placed him in one of the huge flat-bottomed bread
baskets and drew the two up and down in front of the shop. Then all was dim again; so dim that
except for the lap and backward sucking of the waters against the sea wall, whereon he leaned,
he had scarcely recalled a ship at the old pier of Dieppe, and the Little Trout standing beside
her grandfather on the stringer, frantically waving her hand as the ship left her moorings
and the prow nosed the first heavy channel sea that washed against the bulkhead and half-drowned
her wailing cry:

"Jean--mon Jean!"

The rest was a blank until he landed here almost on this very spot in old Castle Garden and,
holding hard by his father's hand, was bidden to look up at the flag flying from the pole at
the top of the queer round building--a brave sight even for his young eyes: all the red and
white and blue straining in the freshening wind with an energy of motion that made the boy
dance in sympathetic joy at his father's side--

And what next?

Again a confusion of journeyings, and afterwards quiet settlement in a red brick box of a house
in a mill town on the Merrimac. He could still hear the clang of the mill-gates, the ringing
of the bells, the hum and whir and roar of a hundred thousand spindles, the clacking crash
of the ponderous shifting frames. He could still see with the inner eye the hundreds of windows
blazing in the reflected fires of the western sun, or twinkling with numberless lights that
cast their long reflections on the black waters of the canal. There on the bank, at the entrance
to the footbridge, the boy was wont to take his stand regularly at six o'clock of a winter's
day, and wait for the hoisting of the mill-gates and the coming of his father and mother with
the throng of toilers.

So he saw himself--himself as an identity emerging at last from the confusion of time and place
and circumstance; for there followed the public school, the joys of rivalry, the eager outrush
for the boy's Ever New, the glory of scrimmage and school-boy sports, the battle royal for
the little Auvergnat when taunted with the epithet "Johnny Frog" by the belligerent youth,
American born, and the victorious outcome for the "foreigner"; the Auvergne blood was up, and
the temperament volcanic like his native soil where subterranean heats evidence themselves
in hot, out-welling waters. And afterwards, at home, there were congratulations and comfortings,
plus applications of vinegar and brown butcher's paper to the severely smitten nose of this
champion of his new Americanhood. But at school and in the street, henceforth there was due
respect and a general atmosphere of "let bygones be bygones."

Ah, but the pride of his mother in her boy's progress! the joy over the first English-French
letter that went to the great-uncle baker; the constant toil of both parents that the savings
might be sufficient to educate their one child--that the son might have what the parents lacked.
Already the mother had begun to speak of the priesthood: she might yet see her son Jean a priest,
a bishop, and archbishop. Who could tell? America is America, and opportunities infinite--a
cardinal, perhaps, and the gift of a red hat from the Pope, and robes and laces! There was
no end to her ambitious dreaming.

But across the day-dreams fell the shadow of hard times: the shutting down of the mills, the
father's desperate illness in a workless winter, his death in the early spring, followed shortly
by that of the worn-out and ill-nourished mother--and for the twelve-year-old boy the abomination
of desolation, and world and life seen dimly through tears. Dim, too, from the like cause,
that strange passage across the ocean to Dieppe--his mother's uncle having sent for him to
return--a weight as of lead in his stomach, a fiery throbbing in his young heart, a sickening
craving for some expression of human love. The boyish tendrils, although touched in truth by
spring frosts, were outreaching still for some object upon which to fasten; yet he shrank from
human touch and sympathy on that voyage in the steerage lest in his grief and loneliness he
scream aloud.

Dieppe again, and the Little Trout with her grandfather awaiting him on the pier; the Little
Trout's arms about his neck in loving welcome, the boy's heart full to bursting and his eyelids
reddened in his supreme effort to keep back tears. Dependent, an orphan, and destined for the
priesthood--those were his life lines for the next ten years. And the end? Revolt, rebellion,
partial crime, acquittal under the law, but condemnation before the tribunal of his conscience
and his God.

There followed the longing to expiate, to expiate in that America where he was not known but
where he belonged, where his parents' dust mingled with the soil; to flee to the Church as
to a sanctuary of refuge, to be priest through expiation. And this he had been for years while
working among the Canadian rivermen, among the lumbermen of Maine, sharing their lives, their
toil, their joys and sorrows, the common inheritance of the Human. For years subsequent to
his Canadian mission, and after his naturalization as an American citizen, he worked in town
and city, among high and low, rich and poor, recognizing in his catholicity of outlook but
one human plane: that which may be tested by the spirit level of human needs. Now, at last,
he was priest by conviction, by inner consecration.

He stood erect; drew a long full breath; squared his shoulders and looked around him. He noticed
for the first time that a Staten Island ferryboat had moved into the slip near him; that several
passengers were lingering to look at him; that a policeman was pacing behind him, his eye alert--and
he smiled to himself, for he read their thought. He could not blame them for looking. He had
fancied himself alone with the sea and the night and his thoughts; had lost himself to his
present surroundings in the memory of those years; he had suffered again the old agony of passion,
shame, guilt, while the events of that pregnant, preparatory period in France, etched deep
with acid burnings into his inmost consciousness, were passing during that half hour in review
before his inner vision. Small wonder he was attracting attention!

He bared his head. A new moon was sinking to the Highlands of the Navesink. The May night was
mild, the sea breeze drawing in with gentle vigor. He looked northwards up the Hudson, and
southwards to the Liberty beacon, and eastwards to the Sound. "God bless our Land" he murmured;
then, covering his head, bowed courteously to the policeman and took his way across the Park
to the up-town elevated station.

Yes, at last he dared assert it: he was priest by consecration; soul, heart, mind, body dedicate
to the service of God through Humanity. That service led him always in human ways. A few nights
ago he saw the poster: "The Little Patti". A child then? Thought bridged the abyss of ocean
to the Little Trout. Some rescue work for him here, possibly; hence his presence in the theatre.

III

That the priest's effort to rescue the child from the artificial life of the stage had been
in a measure successful, was confirmed by the presence, six months later, of the little girl
in the yard of the Orphan Asylum on ----nd Street.

On an exceptionally dreary afternoon in November, had any one cared to look over the high board
fence that bounds three sides of the Asylum yard, he might have seen an amazing sight and heard
a still more amazing chorus:

    "Little Sally Waters
    Sitting in the sun,
    Weeping and crying for a young man;
    Rise, Sally, rise, Sally,
    Wipe away your tears, Sally;
    Turn to the east
    And turn to the west,
    And turn to the one that you love best!"

Higher and higher the voices of the three hundred orphans shrilled in unison as the owners
thereof danced frantically around a small solitary figure in the middle of the ring of girls
assembled in the yard on ----nd Street. Her coarse blue denim apron was thrown over her head;
her face was bowed into her hands that rested on her knees. It was a picture of woe.

The last few words "you love best" rose to a shriek of exhortation. In the expectant silence
that followed, "Sally" rose, pirouetted in a fashion worthy of a ballet dancer, then, with
head down, fists clenched, arms tight at her sides, she made a sudden dash to break through
the encircling wall of girls. She succeeded in making a breach by knocking the legs of three
of the tallest out from under them; but two or more dozen arms, octopus-like, caught and held
her. For a few minutes chaos reigned: legs, arms, hands, fingers, aprons, heads, stockings,
hair, shoes of three hundred orphans were seemingly inextricably entangled. A bell clanged.
The three hundred disentangled themselves with marvellous rapidity and, settling aprons, smoothing
hair, pulling up stockings and down petticoats, they formed in a long double line. While waiting
for the bell to ring the second warning, they stamped their feet, blew upon their cold fingers,
and freely exercised their tongues.

"Yer dassn't try that again!" said the mate in line with the obstreperous "Sally" who had so
scorned the invitation of the hundreds of girls to "turn to the one that she loved best".

"I dass ter!" was the defiant reply accompanied by the protrusion of a long thin tongue.

"Yer dassn't either!"

"I dass t'either!"

"Git out!" The first speaker nudged the other's ribs with her sharp elbow.

"Slap yer face for two cents!" shrieked the insulted "Sally", the Little Patti of the Vaudeville,
and proceeded to carry out her threat. Whereupon Freckles, as she was known in the Asylum,
set up a howl that was heard all along the line and turned upon her antagonist tooth and nail.
At that moment the bell clanged a second time. A hush fell upon the multitude, broken only
by a suppressed shriek that came from the vicinity of Freckles. A snicker ran down the line.
The penalty for breaking silence after the second bell was "no supper", and not one of the
three hundred cared to incur that--least of all Flibbertigibbet, the "Sally" of the game, who
had forfeited her dinner, because she had been caught squabbling at morning prayers, and was
now carrying about with her an empty stomach that was at bottom of her ugly mood.

"One, two--one, two." The monitor counted; the girls fell into step, all but Flibbertigibbet--the
Asylum nickname for the "Little Patti"--who contrived to keep out just enough to tread solidly
with hobnailed shoe on the toes of the long-suffering Freckles. It was unbearable, especially
the last time when a heel was set squarely upon Freckles' latest bunion.

"Ou, ou--oh, au--wau!" Freckles moaned, limping.

"Number 207 report for disorder," said the monitor.

Flibbertigibbet giggled. Number 207 stepped out of the line and burst into uncontrollable sobbing;
for she was hungry, oh, so hungry! And the matron had chalked on the blackboard "hot corn-cakes
and molasses for Friday". It was the one great treat of the week. The girl behind Flibbertigibbet
hissed in her ear:

"Yer jest pizen mean; dirt ain't in it."

A back kick worthy of a pack mule took effect upon the whisperer's shin. Flibbertigibbet moved
on unmolested, underwent inspection at the entrance, and passed with the rest into the long
basement room which was used for meals.

Freckles stood sniffing disconsolately by the door as the girls filed in. She was meditating
revenge, and advanced a foot in hope that, unseen, she might trip her tormentor as she passed
her. What, then, was her amazement to see Flibbertigibbet shuffle along deliberately a little
sideways in order to strike the extended foot! This man[oe]uvre she accomplished successfully
and fell, not forward, but sideways out of line and upon Freckles. Freckles pushed her off
with a vengeance, but not before she heard a gleeful whisper in her ear:

"Dry up--watch out--I'll save yer some!"

That was all; but to Freckles it was a revelation. The children filed between the long rows
of wooden benches, that served for seats, and the tables. They remained standing until the
sister in charge gave the signal to be seated. When the three hundred sat down as one, with
a thud of something more than fifteen tons' weight, there broke loose a Babel of tongues--English
as it is spoken in the mouths of children of many nationalities.

It was then that Freckles began to "watch out."

Flibbertigibbet sat rigid on the bench, her eyes turned neither to right nor left but staring
straight at the pile of smoking corn-meal cakes trickling molasses on her tin plate. She was
counting: "One, two, three, four, five," and the prospect of more; for on treat nights, which
occurred once a week, there was no stinting with corn-meal cakes, hulled corn, apple sauce
with fried bread or whatever else might be provided for the three hundred orphans at the Asylum
on ----nd Street, in the great city of New York.

Freckles grew nervous as she watched. What was Flibbertigibbet doing? Her fingers were busy
untying the piece of red mohair tape with which her heavy braid was fastened in a neat loop.
She put it around her apron, tying it fast; then, blousing the blue denim in front to a pouch
like a fashion-plate shirt waist, she said in an undertone to her neighbor on the right:

"Gee--look! Ain't I got the style?"

"I ain't a-goin' ter look at yer, yer so pizen mean--dirt ain't in it," said 206 contemptuously,
and sat sideways at such an angle that she could eat her cakes without seeing the eyesore next her.

"Stop crowdin'!" was the next command from the bloused bit of "style" to her neighbor on the
left. Her sharp elbow emphasized her words and was followed by a solid thigh-to-thigh pressure
that was felt for the length of at least five girls down the bench. The neighbor on the left
found she could not withstand the continued pressure. She raised her hand.

"What is the trouble with 205?" The voice from the head of the table was one of controlled
impatience.

"Please 'um--"; but she spoke no further word, for the pressure was removed so suddenly that
she lost her balance and careened with such force towards her torment of a neighbor that the
latter was fain to put her both arms about her to hold her up. This she did so effectually
that 205 actually gasped for breath.

"I'll pinch yer black an' blue if yer tell!" whispered Flibbertigibbet, relaxing her hold and
in turn raising her hand.

"What's wanting now, 208?"

"A second helpin', please 'um."

The tin round was passed up to the nickel-plated receptacle, that resembled a small bathtub
with a cover, and piled anew. Flibbertigibbet viewed its return with satisfaction, and Freckles,
who had been watching every move of this by-play, suddenly doubled up from her plastered position
against the wall. She saw Flibbertigibbet drop the cakes quick as a flash into the low neck
of her apron, and at that very minute they were reposing in the paunch of the blouse and held
there by the mohair girdle. Thereafter a truce was proclaimed in the immediate vicinity of
208. Her neighbors, right and left, their backs twisted towards the tease, ate their portions
in fear and trembling. After a while 208's hand went up again. This time it waved mechanically
back and forth as if the owner were pumping bucketfuls of water.

"What is it now, 208?" The voice at the head of the table put the question with a note of exasperation
in it.

"Please 'um, another helpin'."

The sister's lips set themselves close. "Pass up 208's plate," she said. The empty plate, licked
clean of molasses on the sly, went up the line and returned laden with three "bloomin' beauties"
as 208 murmured serenely to herself. She ate one with keen relish, then eyed the remaining
two askance and critically. Freckles grew anxious. What next? Contrary to all rules 208's head,
after slowly drooping little by little, lower and lower, dropped finally with a dull thud on
the edge of the table and a force that tipped the plate towards her. Freckles doubled up again;
she had seen through the man[oe]uvre: the three remaining cakes slid gently into the open half--low
apron neck and were safely lodged with the other four.

"Number 208 sit up properly or leave the table."

The sister spoke peremptorily, for this special One Three-hundredth was her daily, almost hourly,
thorn in the flesh. The table stopped eating to listen. There was a low moan for answer, but
the head was not lifted. Number 206 took this opportunity to give her a dig in the ribs, and
Number 205 crowded her in turn. To their amazement there was no response.

"Number 208 answer at once."

"Oh, please, 'um, I've got an awful pain--oo--au--." The sound was low but piercing.

"You may leave the table, 208, and go up to the dormitory."

208 rose with apparent effort. Her hands were clasped over the region where hot corn-meal cakes
are said to lie heavily at times. Her face was screwed into an expression indicative of excruciating
inner torment. As she made her way, moaning softly, to the farther door that opened into the
cheerless corridor, there was audible a suppressed but decided giggle. It proceeded from Freckles.
The monitor warned her, but, unheeding, the little girl giggled again.

A ripple of laughter started down the three tables, but was quickly suppressed.

"Number 207," said the much-tried and long-suffering sister, "you have broken the rule when
under discipline. Go up to the dormitory and don't come down again to-night." This was precisely
what Freckles wanted. She continued to sniff, however, as she left the room with seemingly
reluctant steps. Once the door had closed upon her, she flew up the two long flights of stairs
after Flibbertigibbet whom she found at the lavatory in the upper dormitory, cleansing the
inside of her apron from molasses.

Oh, but those cakes were good, eaten on the broad window sill where the two children curled
themselves to play at their favorite game of "making believe about the Marchioness"!

"But it's hot they be!" Freckles' utterance was thick owing to a large mouthful of cake with
which she was occupied.

"I kept 'em so squeezin' 'em against my stommick."

"Where the pain was?"

"M-m," her chum answered abstractedly. Her face was flattened against the window in order to
see what was going on below, for the electric arc-light at the corner made the street visible
for the distance of a block.

"I've dropped a crumb," said Freckles ruefully.

"Pick it up then, or yer'll catch it--Oh, my!"

"Wot?" said Freckles who was on her hands and knees beneath the window searching for the crumb
that might betray them if found by one of the sisters.

"Git up here quick if yer want to see--it's the Marchioness an' another kid. Come on!" she
cried excitedly, pulling at Freckles' long arm. The two little girls knelt on the broad sill,
and with faces pressed close to the window-pane gazed and whispered and longed until the electric
lights were turned on in the dormitory and the noise of approaching feet warned them that it
was bedtime.

