THE NEW WORLD AND THE NEW MAN.

Half a dozen rivulets leap down the western declivity of the Rocky Mountains, and unite; four
thousand miles away the mighty Missouri debouches into the Mexican Gulf as the result of that
junction. Did the rivulets propose or plan the river? Not at all; but they knew, each, its
private need to find a lower level; the universal law they obeyed accomplished the rest. So
is it with the great human streams. Mighty beginnings do not lie in the minds of the beginners.
History is a perpetual surprise, ever developing results of which men were the agents without
being the expectants. Individual actors, with respect to the master claim of humanity, are,
for the most part, not unlike that fleet hound which, enticed by a tempting prospect of meat,
outran a locomotive engine all the way from Lowell to Boston, and won a handsome wager for
his owner, while intent only on a dinner for himself. Humanity is served out of all proportion
to the intention of service. Even the noble souls, never wanting in history, who follow not
a bait, but belief, see only in imperfect survey the connections and relations of their deeds.
Each is faithfully obeying his own inward vocation, a voice unheard by other soul than his
own, and the inability to calculate consequences makes the preëminent grandeur of his position;
or he is urged by the high inevitable impulse to publish or verify an idea: the Divine Destiny
works in their hearts, and plans over their heads.

Socrates felt a sacred impulse to test his neighbors, what they knew and were: this is such
account of his life as he himself can give at its close. His contemporaries generally saw in
him an imperturbable and troublesome questioner, fatally sure to come at the secret of every
man's character and credence, whom no subterfuge could elude, no compliments flatter, no menaces
appall,--suspected also of some emancipation from the popular superstitions: this is the account
of him which they are able to give. At twenty-three centuries' distance we see in him the source
of a river of spiritual influence, that yet streams on, more than a Missouri, in the minds
of men,--more than a Missouri, for it not only flows as an open current, but, percolating beneath
the surface, and coming up in distinct and distant fountains, it becomes the hidden source
of many a constant tide in the faiths and philosophies of nations.

The veil covers the eyes of spectators and agents alike. Columbus returns, freighted with wondrous
tidings, to the Spanish shore; the nation rises and claps its hands; the nation kneels to bless
its gods at all its shrines, and chants its delight in many a choral Te Deum. What, then, do
they think is gained? Why, El Dorado! Have they not gained a whole world of gold and silver
mines to buy jewelled cloaks and feathers and frippery with? Have they not gained a cornucopia
of savages, to support new brigades at home by their enslavement, and new bishoprics abroad
by their salvation? Touching, truly, is the childish eagerness and bonhommie with which those
Spaniards in fancy assume, as it were, between thumb and finger, this continent, deemed to
be nothing less than gold, and feed with it the leanness of hungry purses; and the effect is
not a little enhanced by the extreme pains they are at to say a sufficient grace over the imagined
meal. "Oh, wonderful, Pomponius!" shouts the large-minded Peter Martyr. "Upon the surface of
that earth are found rude masses of gold, of a weight that one fears to mention!... Spain is
spreading her wings," etc. He is of the minority there, who does not suppose this New World
a Providential donation to aid him to dinners, dances, and dawdling, or at best to promote
his "glory" and pride of social estimation. Even Columbus, more magnanimous than most of his
contemporaries, is not so greatly more wise. The noblest use he can conceive for his discovery
is to aid in the recovery of the Holy Sepulchre. With the precious metals that should fall
to his share, says his biographer, he made haste to vow the raising of a force of five thousand
horse and fifty thousand foot for the expulsion of the Saracens from Jerusalem. Nor is this
the only instance in which even the noble among men have sought to clutch the grand opening
futures, and wreathe the beauty of their promise about the consecrated graves of the past.
"Servants of Sepulchres" is a title which even now, not individuals alone, but whole nations,
may lawfully claim.

The Old World, we say, seized upon this magnificent new force now thrown into history, and
harnessed it unsuspiciously to its own car, as if it could have been designed for no other
possible use. Happily, however, the design was different, and Providence having a peculiar
faculty of protecting its own plans, the holding of the reins after such a steed proved anything
but a sinecure. Spain, indeed, rode in a high chariot for a time, but at length, in that unlucky
Armada drive, crashed against English oak on the ocean highways, and came off creaking and
rickety,--grew thenceforth ever more unsteady,--finally, came utterly to the ground, with contusions,
fractures, and much mishap,--and now the poor nation hobbles hypochondriacally upon crutches,
all its brave charioteering sadly ended. England drove more considerately, but could not avoid
fate; so in 1783 she, too, must let go the rein with some mental disturbance. For the great
Destiny was not exclusively a European Providence,--had meditated the establishment of a fresh
and independent human centre on the western side of the sea. The excellent citizens of London
and Madrid found themselves incapable of crediting this until it was duly placarded in gunpowder
print.--It is, indeed, an unaccountable foible men have, not to recognize a plain fact till
it has been published in this blazing hieroglyphic. What were England and France doing at Sebastopol?
Merely issuing a poster to this effect,--"Turkey is not yours,"--in a type that Russia could
feel free to understand. Terribly costly editions these are, and in a type utterly hideous;
but while nations refuse to see the fact in a more agreeable presentation, it may probably
feel compelled to go into this ugly, but indubitable shape.--Well, somewhat less than a century
since, England had committed herself to the proposition, that America was really a part or
dependency of Europe, a lower-caste Europe, having about the same relation to the Cisatlantic
continent that the farmer's barn has to his house. Mild refutations of this modest doctrine
having been attempted without success, posters in the necessary red-letter type were issued
at Concord, Bunker Hill, Yorktown, etc., which might be translated somewhat thus:--"America
has its own independent root in the world's centre, its own independent destiny in the Providential
thought." This important fact, having then and there exploded itself into legibility, and come
to be known and read of all men, admits now of no dispute, and requires no confirmation. It
is evidently so. The New World is not merely a newly-discovered hay-loft and dairy-stall for
the Old, but is itself a proper household, of equal dignity with any. To draw the due inferences
from this, to see what is implied in it, is all that we are here required to do.

Be it, then, especially noted that the continent by itself can take no such rank. A spirituality
must appear to crown and complete this great continental body; otherwise America is acephalous.
Unless there be an American Man, the continent is inevitably but an appendage, a kitchen and
laundry for the European parlor. American Man,--and the word Man is to receive a large emphasis.
Observe, that it does not refer to mere population. The fact required will hardly be reported
in the census. Indeed, there is quite too much talk about population, about prospective increase
of numbers. We are to have thirty millions of inhabitants, they say, in 1860; soon forty, fifty,
one hundred millions. Doubtless; and if that be all, one yawns over the statement. Could any
prophet assure us of one million of men who would stand for the broadest justice as Leonidas
and his three hundred Spartans stood for Lacedaemon! But Hebrew David was thought to be punished
for taking a census; nor is the story without significance. To reckon numbers alone a success
is a sin, and a blunder beside. Russia has sixty millions of people: who would not gladly swap
her out of the world for glorious little Greece back again, and Plato and Aeschylus and Epaminondas
still there? Who would exchange Concord or Cambridge in Massachusetts for any hundred thousand
square miles of slave-breeding dead-level? Who Massachusetts in whole for as many South American
(or Southern) republics as would cover Saturn and all his moons? Make sure of depth and breadth
of soul as the national characteristic; then roll up the census columns; and roll out a hallelujah
for each additional thousand.

Thus had the great Genoese been destined merely to make a new highway on the ocean and new
lines on the map,--to add the potato, maize, and tapioca to the known list of edibles, and
tobacco to that of narcotics,--to explode Spain, give England a cotton-field, Ireland a hospital,
and Africa a hell. This could by no means seem sufficient. The crew of the Pinta shouted, "Land!
Land!"--peering through the dark at the new shores; the Spanish nation chanted, "Gold! Gold!"--gazing
out through murky desires toward the wondrous West; but it is only with the cry of "Man! Man!"
as at the sight of new cerebral shores and wealth of more than golden humanities, that the
true America is discovered and announced. So whatever reason we have to assert for America
a really independent existence and destiny, the same have we for predicting an opulence of
heart and brain, to which Western prairies and Californian gold shall seem the natural appurtenance.

And this noble man must be likewise a new man,--not merely a migrated European. Western Europe
pushed a little farther west does not meet our demand. Why should Europe go three thousand
miles off to be Europe still? Besides, can we afford to England, France, Spain, a larger room
in the world? Are we more than satisfied with their occupancy of that they already possess?
The Englishman is undeniably a wholesome picture to the mental eye; but will not twenty million
copies of him do, for the present? It would seem like a poverty in Nature, were she unable
to vary, but must go helplessly on to reproduce that selfsame British likeness over all North
America. But history fully warrants the expectation of a new form of man for the new continent.
German and Scandinavian Teutons peopled England; but the Englishman is sui generis, not merely
an exported Teuton. Egypt, says Bunsen, was peopled by a colony from Western Asia; but the
genius and physiognomy of Egypt are peculiar and its own. Mr. Pococke will have it that Greece
was a migrated India: it was, of course, a migration from some place that first planted the
Hellenic stock in Europe; but if the man who carved the Zeus, and built the Parthenon, and
wrote the "Prometheus" and the "Phaedrus," were a copy, where shall we find the original? Indeed,
there has never been a great migration that did not result in a new form of national genius.
And it is the thoroughness of the transformations thus induced which makes the chief difficulty
in tracing the affinities of peoples.

So it is that the world is enriched. Every new form of man establishes another current in those
reciprocations of thought, in those electrical streams of sympathy,--of wholesome attraction
and wholesome repulsion,--by which the intellectual life is kindled and quickened. Thought
begins not until two men meet. Col. Hamilton Smith makes it quite clear that civilization has
found its first centres there where two highways of national movement crossed, and dissimilar
men looked each other in the face. They have met, it may be, with the rudest kind of greetings;
but have obtained good thoughts from hard blows, and beaten ideas out of each other's heads,
if not into them, according to the ancient pedagogic tradition. Higher culture brings higher
terms of meeting; traffic succeeds war, conversation follows upon traffic; ever the necessity
of various men to each other remains. There is no pure white light until seven colors blend;
so to the mental illumination of humanity many hues of national genius must consent: and the
value of life to all men is greater so soon as a new man has made his advent.

All this is matter of daily experience with us. We do not, indeed, tire of old friends. A soul
whose wealth we have once recognized must be ever rich to us. Gold turns not to copper by keeping;
and perhaps old friends are rather like old wine, and can never be too old. Yet who does not
mark in the calendar those days wherein he has met a new rich soul, that has a physiognomy,
a grace and expression, peculiarly its own? Even decided repulsions have also a use. We whet
our conscience on our neighbors' faults, as sober Spartans were made by the spectacle of drunken
Helots;--though he who makes habitual talk about his neighbors' faults whets his conscience
across the edge. If there be sermons in stones, no less is there blessing in bores and in bullies.
We found one day in the face of a black bear what could not be so well found in libraries.
The creature regarded us attentively, and with affection rather than malice,--saw simply certain
amounts of savory flesh, useful for the satisfaction of ursine hungers,--and saw nothing more.
It was an incomparable lesson to teach that the world is an endless series of levels, and that
each eye sees what its own altitude commands; the rest to it is non-extant. That bear was in
his natural covering of hair; his brothers we frequently meet in broadcloth.

Now, as Nature keeps up this inexhaustible variety of individual genius which individual quickening
requires, so on the larger scale is she ever working and compounding to produce varieties of
national genius. Her aim is the same in both cases,--to enrich the whole by this electrical
and enlivening relation between its parts. And thus an American man, no copy, but an original,
formed in unprecedented moulds, with his own unborrowed grandeur, his own piquancy and charm,
is to be looked for,--is, indeed, even now to be seen,--on this shore.

Yes, the man we seek is already found, his features rapidly becoming distinct. He is the offspring
of Northern Europe; he occupies Central North-America. Other fresh forms are doubtless to appear,
but, though dimly shaping themselves, are as yet inchoate. But the Anglo-American is an existing
fact, to be spoken of without prognostication, save as this is implied in the recognition of
tendencies established and unfolding into results. The Anglo-American may be considered the
latest new-comer into this planet. Let us, then, a little celebrate his advent. Let us make
all lawful and gentle inquiry about the distinguished stranger.

First, what is his pedigree? He need not be ashamed to tell; for he comes of a noble family,
the Teutonic,--a family more opulent of human abilities, and those, for the most part, the
deeper kind of abilities, than any other on the earth at present. He reckons among his progenitors
and relatives such names as Shakspeare, Goethe, Milton, the two Bacons, Lessing, Richter, Schiller,
Carlyle, Hegel, Luther, Behmen, Swedenborg, Gustavus Adolphus, William of Orange, Cromwell,
Frederick II., Wellington, Newton, Leibnitz, Humboldt, Beethoven, Handel, Turner; and nations
might be enriched out of the names that remain when the supreme ones in each class have been
mentioned. Consider what incomparable range and variety, as well as depth, of genius are here
affirmed. Greece and India possessed powers not equally represented here; but otherwise these
might stand for the full abilities of mankind, each in its handsomest illustration.--It is
remarkable, too, that our Anglo-American has no "poor relations." Not a scurvy nation comes
of this stock. They are the Protestant nations, giving religion a moral expression, and reconciling
it with freedom of thought. They are the constitutional nations, exacting terms of government
that acknowledge private right. Resource may also be emphasized as a characteristic of these
nations. Hitherto they have honored every draft that has been made upon them. The Dutch first
fished their country out from under the sea, and afterwards defended it in a war of eighty
years' duration against the first military power on the globe: two feats, perhaps, equally
without parallel.

Being thus satisfied upon the point of pedigree, we may proceed to inquire about estate. To
what inheritance of land has Nature invited our New Man? He comes to the country of highest
organization, perhaps, upon either hemisphere. Brazil and China suggest, but probably do not
sustain, a rivalry. What is implied in superior organization will appear from the items to
be mentioned.

  1. Elaboration. Central North-America is to an extraordinary degree
worked out everywhere in careful detail, in moderate hill and valley,
in undulating prairie and fertile plain,--not tossed into barren
mountain-masses and table-lands, like that vast desert plateau which
stretches through Central Asia,--not struck out in blank, like the
Russian steppes and the South American llanos, as if Nature had
wanted leisure to elaborate and finish. Indeed, these primary
conditions of fertility and large habitability appertain to America, as
a whole, to such degree, that, with less than half the extent of the
Old World, it actually numbers more acres of fertile soil, and can, of
course, sustain a larger population.

  2. Unity. Between the Rocky Mountains and the Atlantic coast, and
between the Gulf of Mexico and the northern wheat-limit, a larger space
of fertile territory, embracing a wider variety of climate and
production, is thrown into one mass, broken by no barrier, than can,
perhaps, elsewhere be found.

  3. Communication. No mass of land equal in other advantages is to the
same extent thrown open and enriched by natural highways. The first
item under this head is access to the ocean, which is the great
road-space and highway of the world. Not mentioning the Pacific, as
that coast is not here considered, we have the open sea upon two sides,
while upon the northern boundary is an inclosed sea, the string of
lakes, occupying a space larger than Great Britain and Ireland, and of
a form to afford the greatest amount of coast-line and accommodation in
proportion to space. But coast-line is not enough; land and sea must
be wedded as well as approximated. The Doge of Venice went annually
forth to wed the Adriatic in behalf of its queen, and to cast into its
bosom the symbolic ring; but Nature alone can really join the hands of
ocean and main. By bays, estuaries, ports, spaces of sea lovingly
inclosed by arms of sheltering shore, are conversation and union
established between them.

"The sea doth wash out all the ills of life," sings Euripides; and it is, indeed, with some
penetration of wonder that one observes how deep and productive a relation to man the ocean
has sustained. Some share in the greatest enterprises, in the finest results, it seldom fails
to have. Not capriciously did the subtile Greek imagination derive the birth of Venus from
the foam of the sea; for social love,--that vast reticulation of wedlock which society is--has
commonly arisen not far from the ocean-shore. The Persian is the only superior civilization,
now occurring to our recollection, which has no intimate relation either with river or sea;
and that pushed inevitably toward the Tigris and Euphrates. Now to Europe must be conceded
the supremacy in this single respect, that of representing the most intimate coast relation
with the sea; North America follows next in order. Africa, washed, but not wedded, by the wave,
represents the greatest seclusion,--and has gone into a sable suit in her sorrow. After the
ocean, rivers, which are interior highways, claim regard. The United States have on this side
the Rocky Mountains more than forty thousand miles of river-flow, that is, eighty thousand
miles of river-bank,--counting no stream of less than one hundred miles in length. Europe,
in a larger space, has but seventeen thousand miles. The American rivers are nearly all accessible
from the ocean, and, owing to the gentle elevation of the continent, flow at easy declivities,
and accordingly are largely navigable. The Mississippi descends at an average of only eight
inches per mile from source to mouth; the Missouri is said to be navigable to the very base
of the Rocky Mountains; and these monarch streams represent the rivers of the continent. Thus
here do these highways of God's own making run, as it were, past every man's door, and connect
each man with the world he lives in.

Rivers await their due celebration. We easily see that Nile, Ganges, Euphrates, Jordan, Tiber,
Thames, are rivers of influence in human history, no less than water-currents on the earth's
surface. They have borne barks and barges that the eye never saw. They have brought on their
soft bosoms freight to the cities of the brain, as well as to Memphis, Rome, London. Some experience
of their spiritual influence must have fallen to the lot of most men. The loved and lovely
Merrimac no longer accedes to the writer's eye, but, as of old, glides securely seaward in
his thought,--like a strain of masterly music long ago heard, and, when heard, identical in
its suggestions with the total significance and vital progress of one's experience, that, intertwining
itself as a twin thread with the shuttled fibre of life, it was woven into the same fabric,
and became an inseparable part of the consciousness; so, hearken when one will, after the changes
and accessions of many peopled years, and amid the thousand-footed trample of the mob of immediate
impressions, still secure and predominant it is heard subtly sounding. Deep conversation with
any river readily interprets to us that venerable mythus which connects Eden with the four
rivers of the world; as if water must flow where man is chiefly blest.

But the point here to be emphasized is, that rivers are the progressive and public element
in its geographical expression. They throw the continent open; they are doors and windows,
through which the nations look forth upon the world, and leave and enter their own household.
They are the hospitality of the continent,--every river-mouth chanting out over the sea a perpetual,
"Walk in," to all the world. Or again, they are geographical senses,--eyes, ears, and speech;
for of these supreme mediators in the body, voice, vision, and hearing, it is the office, as
of rivers, to open communication between the interior and exterior world; they are rivers of
access to the outlying universe of men and things, which enters them, and approaches the soul
through the freighted suggestions of sight and sound. Rivers, lastly, are the geographical
symbol of public spirit, the flowing and connecting element, suggesting common interests and
large systems of action.

Thus in these characteristics of Various Productiveness, Unity, and Openness or Publicity,
the continent indicates the description of man who may be its fit habitant. It suggests a nation
vast in numbers and in power, existing not as an aggregate of fragments, but as an organic
unit, the vital spirit of the whole prevailing in each of its parts; and consequently predicts
a man suitable for wide and yet intimate societies. Let us not, however, thoughtlessly jump
to accept these easy prognostics; first let it be fully understood what an enormous demand
they imply. Americans speak complacently of their prospective one hundred millions of inhabitants;
but do they bear well in mind that the requisition upon the individual is augmented by every
multiplication and extension of the mass? It is not without significance, that great empires
have uniformly been, or become, despotisms. Liberty lives only in the life of just principle;
and as the weight of an elephant could not be sustained by the skeleton of a gazelle,--as,
moreover, the bones must be made stouter as well as longer,--so must a vast body politic be
permeated by a sturdier element of justice than is required for a diminutive state. It is,
indeed, the chief recommendation of our federative form of government, that this, so far as
may be, localizes legislation, and thus, by lessening the number of interests that demand a
national consent, lessens equally the strain upon the conscience and judgment of the whole.
Near at hand, the mere good feeling of neighbors, the companionable sentiment of cities and
clans, proves a valuable succedaneum for that deeper principle which is good for all places
and times. But this sentiment, like gravitation, diminishes in the ratio of the square of the
distance, and at any considerable remove can no longer be reckoned upon as a counter-balance
to the lawlessness of egotism. Athenians could be passably just, or at least not disastrously
unjust, to Athenians; Spartans to Spartans; but Sparta must needs oppress the other cities
of Laconia, while Athens was at best a fickle ally; and when Grecian liberty could be strong
only in Grecian union, the common sentiment was bankrupted by too great a draft upon its resources.
How far beyond the range of egotism of neighborhood a free state may go is determined chiefly
by limits in the souls of its constituents. At that point where equal justice begins to halt,
fatigued by too long a journey, the inevitable boundaries of the state are fixed. Nor is it
the mere sentiment of justice alone that suffices; but this must be sustained in its applications
by a certain breadth of nature, a certain freedom and flexibility, akin to the dramatic faculty,
which enables us to enter into the feelings and wants of others. Nothing, perhaps, in the world
can be so unjust as a narrow and frigid conscience beyond its proper range. The bounds of the
state may, indeed, not pause where the sustenance of its integral life fails. But then its
extension will be purchased with its freedom,--the quality be debased as the quantity increases.
Jelly-fish, and creatures of the lowest animation, may sustain magnitude of body, not only
with a slight skeleton, but with none at all; and society of a cold-blooded or bloodless kind
follows the analogy. But these low grades of social organization, having some show of congruity
with the blank levels of Russia, can pretend to none with the continent we inhabit. Yet some
species of arbitrament between man and man is sure to establish itself; if it live not, as
a part of freedom, in the bosom of each, then does it inevitably build itself into a Fate over
their heads; and despotism, war, or similar brutal and violent instrumentalities of adjustment,
supply in their way the demand that love and reason failed to meet.

Accordingly, in our American Man must be found, first, social largeness and susceptibility,--whatsoever,
in the breadth of a flexile and sympathetic nature, may contribute to the keeping of the Golden
Rule. But the broadest good-feeling will not alone suffice. The great pledge of peace, fellowship,
and profitable co-working among such a population as we anticipate must be sought in the deeper
unity of moral principle. For Right is one, and is every man's interest. Right is better than
Charity; for Right meets, or even anticipates, normal wants, while Charity only mends failures.
Nothing, therefore, that we could discover in the New Man would be such a security for his
future, nothing so fit him for his place, as a tendency to simple and universal principles
of action. In the absence of this, he will infallibly be compelled one day to enter Providence's
court of chancery, and come forth bankrupt. But let him be, even by promise, a seer of those
primary truths in which the interests of all are comprehended and made identical, and the virtue
of his vision will become the assurance of his welfare. Doubtless, sad men will say that our
own eyes are clouded with some glittering dust of optimism, when we declare that this Man for
the Continent is the very one whose advent we celebrate. This might, indeed, seem a fatuitously
dulcet song to sing just now, when a din of defection and recreancy is loud through all the
land,--now, when we have immediately in view, and on the largest scale, an open patronage of
infamous wrong-doing, so brazen-fronted and blush-proof that only the spectacle itself makes
its credibility;--the prior possibility of it we should one and all hasten, for the honor of
human nature, to deny. Yet in the midst of all this are visible the victorious influences that
mould the imported Teuton to the spiritual form which his appointed tasks imply. These we now
hasten to indicate.

And first, every breath of American air helps to make him the American Man. The atmosphere
of America was early noted as a wonder-worker. Ten years subsequent to the landing at Plymouth,
the Rev. Francis Higginson, an acute observer, wrote to the mother country,--"A sup of New
England air is better than a whole flagon of old English ale." Jean Paul says that the roots
of humankind are the lungs, and that, being rooted in air,--we are properly children of the
aether. Truly, children of the aether,--and so, children of fire. For the oxygen, upon which
the lungs chiefly feed, is the fiery principle in Nature,--all that we denominate fire and
flame being but the manifestation of its action. We are severe upon fire-eaters, Southern and
other; yet here are we, cool Northerns, quaffing this very principle and essence of fire in
large lung-draughts every moment, each of us carrying a perpetual furnace in his bosom. Now
it is doubtless true that we inhale more oxygen, or at least inhale it less drenched with damp,
than the people of Europe, and are, therefore, more emphatically children of fire than they.
Be this, or be some other, the true theory of the fact, the fact itself unquestionably is,
that our climate produces the highest nervous intensity. As there are conditions of atmosphere
in which the magnetic telegraph works well, and others in which it works ill, so some conditions
stimulate, while others repress nervous action. The air of England seems favorable to richness
and abundance of blood; there the life-vessels sit deep, and bring opulent cargoes to the flesh-shores;
and the rotund figure, the ruddy solid cheek, and the leisurely complacent movement, all show
how well supported and stored with vital resources the Englishman is. But to the American's
lip the great foster-mother has proffered a more pungent and rousing draught,--not an old Saxon
sleeping-cup for the night, but a waking-cup for the bright morning and busy day. It is forenoon
with him. He is up and dressed, and at work by the job. Bring an Englishman here, and nothing
short of Egyptian modes of preservation will keep him an Englishman long. Soon he cannot digest
so much food, cannot dispose of so much stimulant; his step becomes quicker, his eye keener,
his voice rises a note on the scale, and grows a trifle sharper. In fine, the effects observed
in our autumn foliage may be traced in the people themselves, a heightening of colors; and
while this accounts for much that is prurient and bizarre, it infolds also the best promise
of America.

The effect of this upon American physiology and physiognomy is already quite visible. Of course
we must guard against hasty generalizations, since the interfusing of various elements in our
Western States is producing new types of manhood. But the respective physiques of Old and New
England can easily be compared, and the difference strikes every eye. The American is lean,
he has a paler complexion, a sharper face, a slighter build than his ancestors brought from
the Old World. Mr. Emerson is reported as saying (though the precise words escape us) that
the Englishman speaks from his chest, the American more from the mouth or throat,--that is,
the one associates his voice more with the stomach and viscera, the other with the head; and,
indeed, the pectoral quality of the prevailing tones catches the ear immediately upon setting
foot on British soil. Every man instinctively apprehends where he is strongest, and will tend
to associate voice and movement with the centre of his strengths. The American, since in him
the nervous force predominates, instinctively lifts his voice into connection with the great
household of that force, which is the brain; for an equally good reason the Englishman speaks
from the visceral and sanguineous centres. The American (we are still dwelling chiefly on the
New England type) is also apt to throw the head forward in walking,--thereby indicating, first,
his chief reliance upon the forces which that part harbors, and, secondly, his impulse to progress;
so that our national motto, "Go ahead," may have a twofold significance, as if it were in some
sort the antipodes of going a-foot, and suggested not only the direction of movement, but also
the active agent therein!

Mr. Robert Knox, of England, somewhat known as an ethnological lecturer and author,--a thinker
in a sort, though of the "slam-bang" school, of far more force than faculty, and of a singular
avidity for ugly news,--dogmatically proclaims that all Americans are undergoing a physical
degeneration, involving, as he thinks, an equal lapse of mental power, proceeding with swift
fated steps, and sure ere long to land them in sheer impotence and imbecility; and he appeals
to the common loss of adipose tissue and avoirdupois as proof. This author belongs to a class
of well-meaning gentlemen, so unfortunately constituted that the distractions of their time
induce in them an acetous fermentation (as milk sometimes sours during thunder); and from acid
becoming acrid, they at length fall fairly in love with the Erinnyes, and henceforth dote upon
destruction and ugliness as happier lovers do upon cosmical health and beauty. Concluding that
the universe is a shabby affair, they like to make it out shabbier still,--and so, seldom brighten
up till they have an ill thing to say. They are not persons toward whom it is easy to feel
amiable. Dogmatism is ever unlovely, though it be in behalf of the sweetest hopes; but chronic
doubt and disbelief erected into a dogmatism are intolerable. Yet Mr. Knox's misinterpretations
of the facts are taking root in many minds that do not share his fierce hypochondria and hunger
for bitter herbs. That the American has lost somewhat in animal resources is incontestable;
but Mr. Knox's ever-implied premise, "The animal is the man," from which his Jeremiad derives
its plaint, is but a provincial paper-currency, of very local estimation, and can never, like
gold and silver, pass by weight in the world's marts of thought. The physical constitution
of the New Man is comparatively delicate and fragile; but as a china vase is not necessarily
less sound than a stone jug or iron kettle, so delicacy and fragility in man are no proof of
disease. The ominous prognosis of this doctor, therefore, seems no occasion for despair, perhaps
not even for alarm. But to perceive what different harping can be performed on this string,
hear Carus:--"Leanness, as such," says the master, "is the symbol of a certain lightness, activity,
rapidity, and mental power." Thus the adipose impoverishment, which to the yellow-eyed Englishman
seems utter bankruptcy, is at once recognized by a superior man as denoting an augmentation,
rather than diminution, of proper human wealth.

But while the typical American organization is of this admitted delicacy and lightness, it
is still capable, under high and powerful impulse of extraordinary feats of endurance. This
has of late been admirably illustrated. Not long since, there returned to our shores a hero
who--as Dante was believed by the people of Italy to have entered the Inferno of Fire--had
actually descended into the opposite Inferno of Frost, and done unprecedented battle with the
demons of that realm. Dr. Kane was slight, delicately framed, lean, with sharp, clear-cut features,
of quivering mobility and fineness of texture, having the aspect rather of an artist than an
explorer,--not at all the personage to whom most judges would assign great power of endurance.
And as one follows him through those thrice Herculean toils,--sees him not only bearing cheerfully
the great burden of his own cares and ills, but lifting up, as it were, from his companions,
and assuming upon his own shoulders, the awful oppression of the polar night, as Atlas of old
was fabled to support the heavens,--not even one's admiration at such force of soul can wholly
exclude wonder at such fortitude of body. Whence, we ask, this power of endurance? We can trace
it to no ordinary physical resource. It comes from no ordinary physical resource. It is pure
brain-power. It streams down upon the body, in rivers of invigoration, from the cerebral hemispheres.
A conversational philosopher, discoursing to a circle of intelligent New England mechanics,
said,--"It is commonly supposed that the earth supports man. Not so; man upholds the earth!"
"How!" exclaimed a wide-eyed auditor; "upholds the earth? How do you make that out?" "How?"
answered the philosopher, with superb innocence,--"don't you see that it sticks to his heels?"
When the question is asked, How the slight frame of this Arctic hero could support such tests,
the answer must be analogous,--It clung to his brain. The usual order of support is reversed;
and here is that truer Mercury, in whom the winged head, possessing as function what its prototype
only exhibited as ornament and symbol, really soars in its own might, bearing the pendent feet.

Dr. Kane was one of the purest examples of the American organization; and as he issued victorious
from that region where "the ground burns frore, and cold performs the effect of fire," the
Man of the New World was represented, and in him came forth with proven strength. The same
significance would not attach to all feats of endurance, even where equally representative.
Here are Hercules and Orpheus in one,--the organization of a poet, and the physical stamina
of a gladiator.

Now this peculiar organization offers the physical inducement for two great tendencies,--one
relating to the perception of truth, the other to the feeling of social claims,--while these
tendencies are supported on the spiritual side by the great disciplines of our position; and
the genius which these foreshow is precisely that which ought to be the genius of the New Man.

This organization is that of the seer, the poet, the spiritualist, of all such as have an eye
for the deeper essences and first principles of things. Concede intellectual power, or the
spiritual element, then add this temperament, and there follows a certain subtile, penetrative,
radical quality of thought, a characteristic percipience of principles. And principles are
not only seen, but felt; they thrill the nerve as well as greet the eye; and the man consequently
becomes highly amenable to his own belief. The primary question respecting men is this,--How
far are they affected by the original axiomatic truths? Truths are like the winds. Near the
earth's surface winds blow in variable directions, and the weathercock becomes the type of
fickleness. So there is a class of little truths, dependent upon ever-variable relations, with
which it is the function of cunning, shrewdness, tact, to deal, and numbers of men seldom or
never lift their heads above this weathercock region. Yet the upper air, alike of the spiritual
and the physical atmosphere, has its perpetual currents, unvarying as the revolution of the
globe or the sailing of constellations; and these fail not to represent themselves by eternal
tradewinds upon the surface of our planet and of our life. Now the grand inquiry about any
man is,--Does he belong to the great current, or to the lesser ones? He appertains to the great
in proportion to his access to principles. Or we may illustrate by another analogy a distinction,
of importance so emphatic. The Arctic voyagers find two descriptions of ice. The field-ice
spreads over vast spaces, and moves with immense power; but goes with the wind and the surface-flow.
The bergs, on the contrary, sit deep, are bedded in the mighty under-currents; and when the
field-ice was crashing down with tide and storm, Dr. Kane found these heroes holding their
steady inevitable way in the teeth of both. Thus may one discover men who are very massive,
very powerful, engrossing such enormous spaces that there hardly seems room in the world for
anybody else; but they are Field-ice Men; they represent with gigantic force the impulse of
the hour. But there is another class, making, perhaps, little show upon the surface, or making
it by altitude alone, who represent the grand circulations of law, the orbital courses of truth.
It is a question of depth, of penetration. And depth, be it observed, secures unity; diversity,
contrariety, contention are of the surface. Numbers need not concern us, whether one hundred,
or one hundred millions, provided all are imbedded in the central, commanding truths of the
human consciousness. And if the Man of the New World be characteristically one who will attach
himself to the eternal master-tides, that fact alone fits him for his place.

Of course no sane man would intimate that organization alone can bring about such results.
The Arabian horse will hardly manufacture a Saladin for his back. But let the Saladin be given,
and this marvel of nerve and muscle will multiply his presence,--will, as it were, give two
selves. So, if the Teutonic man who comes to our shores were innately empty or mean, this nervous
intensity would only ripen his meanness, or make his inanity obstreperous. But in so far as
he has real depth of nature, this radical organization will aid him, quickening by its heat
what is deepest within him; and when he turns his face toward principles, this flying brain-steed
will swiftly bring him to his goal. Nay, it is best that even meanness should ripen. The slaveholder
of South Carolina must avouch a false principle to cover his false practice,--must affirm that
slavery is a Divine institution. It is well. A Quaker, hearing a fellow blaspheme, said,--"That
is right, friend; get such bad stuff out of thee!" A lie is dangerous, till it is told,--like
scarlatina, before it is brought to the surface: when either breaks out, it is more than half
conquered. The only falsehoods of appalling efficacy for evil are those which circulate subtly
in the vital unconsciousness of powerful but obscure or undemonstrative natures,--deadly from
the intimacy which also makes them secret and secure, and silently perverting to their own
purposes the normal vigors of the system. A Mephistopheles is not dangerous; he is too clear-headed;
he knows his own deserts: some muddiness is required to harbor self-deceptions, in order that
badness may reach real working power. To all perversion iron limits are, indeed, set; but obscure
falsehood works in the largest spaces and with the longest tether.--Thus the expressive intensity
which appertains to this organization is serviceable every way, even in what might, at first
blush, seem wholly evil effects.

While thus the brain-hand of the American is formed for grasping principles, for apprehending
the simple, subtile, universal truths which slip through coarser and more sluggish fingers,
there is also an influence on the moral and intellectual faculties, coming in to accept and
use these cerebral ones. We are more in conversation with the heart and pure spiritual fact
of humanity than any other people of equal power and culture. We necessarily deal more with
each other on a bond and basis of common persuasion, of open unenacted truth, than others.
This matter is of moment enough to justify somewhat formal elucidation.

Nations, like individual men, birds, and many quadrupeds and fishes, are house-builders. They
wall and roof themselves in with symbols, creeds, codes, customs, etiquettes, and the like;
they stigmatize by the terms heresy, high-treason, and names of milder import, any attempt
to quit this edifice; and send such offenders into purgatory, penitentiary, coventry, as the
case may be. Some nations omit to insert either door or window; they make penal even the desire
to look out of doors, even the assertion that a sky exists other than the roof of their building,
or that there is any other than a very unblessed out-of-doors beyond its walls. Such are countries
where free speech is forbidden, where free thought is racked and thumb-screwed, and where not
only a man's overt actions, but his very hopes, his faith, his prayers, are prescribed. Here
man is put into his own institutions, as into a box; and a very bad box it proves. Now these
blank walls not only encompass society as a mass, but also run between individuals, cutting
off bosom from bosom, and rendering impossible that streaming of heart-fires, that mounting
flame from meeting brands, out of whose wondrous baptism come the consecrate deeds of mankind.
Go to China, and to any living soul you obtain no access, or next to none,--such disastrous
roods of etiquette are interposed between. It is as if one very cordially shook hands with
you by means of a pair of tongs or a ten-foot pole. Indeed, it is hardly a man that you meet;
it is a piece of automatic ceremony. Nor is it in China alone that men may be found who can
hardly be accredited with proper personality. As one dying may distribute his property in legacies
to various institutions and organizations,--so much, for example, to the Tract Society, so
much to the Colonization Society, and the like,--in the same manner do many make wills at the
outset of life for the disposal of their own personal powers, and do nothing afterward but
execute this testament,--executing themselves in another sense at the same time. They parcel
out themselves, their judgment, their conscience, and whatsoever pertains to their spiritual
being, among the customs, traditions, institutions, etiquettes of their time, and renounce
all claim to a free existence. After such a piece of spiritual felo-de-se, the man is nothing
but one wheel in a machine, or even but one cog upon a wheel. Thenceforth he merely hangs together;--simple
cohesion is the utmost approximation to action which can be truly attributed to him.

And as nothing is so ridiculous, so, few things are so mischievous, as the sincere insincerity,
the estrangement from fact, of those who have thus parted with themselves. It is worse, if
anything can be worse, than hypocrisy itself. The hypocrite sees two things,--the fact and
the fiction, the gold and its counterfeit; he has virtue enough to know that he is a hypocrite.
But the post-mortem man, the walking legacy, does not recognize the existence of eternal Fact;
it has never occurred to his mind that anything could be more serious than "spiritual taking-on"
and make-belief. An innocent old gentleman, being at a play where the heroine is represented
as destroyed in attempting to cross a broken bridge, rose, upon seeing her approach it, and
in tones of the deepest concern offered his opinion that said bridge was unsafe! The post-mortem
man reverses this harmless blunder, and makes it anything but harmless by the change; as that
one took theatricals to be earnest fact, so this conceives virtue itself to consist in posturing;
he thinks gold a clever imitation of brass, and the azure of the sky to be a kind of celestial
cosmetic; in fine, formalities are the realest things he knows. It is said, that, in the later
days of Rome, the augurs and inspectors of entrails could not look each other in the face during
their ceremonies, for fear of bursting into a laugh. But still worse off than these pitiful
peddlers of fraud is he who feigns without knowing that he feigns,--feigns unfeignedly, and
calls God to witness that he is faithful in the performance of his part. This is ape's earnest,
and is, perhaps, the largest piece of waste that ever takes place upon this earth. Ape's earnest,--it
is a pit that swallows whole nations, whole ages; and the extent to which it may be carried
is wellnigh incredible, even with the fact before our eyes. A Chinese gentleman spends an hour
in imploring a relative to dine with him,--utterly refusing, so urgent is his desire of company,
to accept No for an answer,--and then flies into a rage because the cousin commits the faux
pas of yielding to his importunity, and agreeing to dine. Louis Napoleon perpetrates the king-joke
of the century by solemnly presenting the Russian Czar with a copy of Thomas à Kempis's "Imitation
of Christ,"--a book whose great inculcation is to renounce the world!

Now no sooner do men lose hold upon fact than they inevitably begin to wither. They resemble
a tree drawn with all its roots from the earth; the juices already imbibed may sustain it awhile,
but with every passing day will sustain it less. If Louis Napoleon is so removed from conversation
with reality as not to perceive the colossal satire implied in his gift, it will soon require
more vigor than he possesses to keep astride the Gallic steed. That Chinese etiquette explains
the condition of the Chinese nation. Indeed, it is easy to give a recipe for mummying men alive.
Take one into keeping, prescribe everything, thoughts, actions, manners, so that he never shall
find either permission or opportunity to ask his own intellect, What is true? nor his own heart,
What is right? nor to consider within himself what is intrinsically good and worthy of a man;
and if he does not rebel, you will make him as good a mummy as Egyptian catacombs can boast.

The capital art of life is to renew and augment your power by its expenditure. It was intimated
some eighteen centuries since that the highest are obtained only by loss of the same; and the
transmutation of loss into gain is the essence and perfection of all spiritual economies. Now
of this art of arts he is already master who steadily draws upon his own spiritual resources.
The soul is an extraordinary well; the way to replenish is to draw from it. It is more miraculous
than the widow's cruse;--that simply continued unexhausted,--never less, indeed, but also never
more; while from this the more you take, the more remains in it. Were it, therefore, desired
to arrange with forethought a scheme of life that should afford the highest invigoration, in
such scheme there should be the minimum of prescription, and nothing be so sedulously avoided
as the superseding of inward and active principles by outward and passive rules;--that is,
life would be made as much moral and spontaneous, as little political and mechanical, as possible.

And this does not ill describe our own case. No civilized nation is so little imprisoned in
precedents and traditions. Our national maxim is, "The world is too much governed." In the
degree of this release we are, of course, thrown back upon underlying principles and universal
persuasions,--since these of necessity become, in the absence of more artificial ties, the
chief bond of such peace and coöperation as obtain. Leave two men to deal with each other,
not merely as subjects or citizens, but as men, and they must recur to that which is at once
native and common to both, to the universal elements in their consciousness, that is, to principles;
and thus the most ordinary mutual dealing becomes, in some degree, a spiritual discipline.
Harness these men in precedents, and whip them through the same action with penalties, and
they will gain only such discipline as the ox obtains in the furrow and the horse between the
thills. Statutes serve men, but lame them. They render morality mechanical. Men learn to say
not, "It is right," but, "It is enacted." And the difference is immense. "Right" sends one
to his own soul, and requires him to produce the living law out of that; "Enacted" sends him
to the Revised Statutes, or the Reports, and there it ends. The latter gives a bit of information;
the former a step in development. Laws are necessary; but laws which are not necessary are
more and worse than unnecessary;--they pilfer power from the soul; they intercept the absolute
uses of life; they incarcerate men, and make Caspar Hausers of them. Now in America not only
is there already much emancipation from those outside regulations which supersede moral and
private judgment, but the tendency toward a fresh life daily gains impetus. That repeal of
the Missouri Compromise, however blamable, has several happy features, and prominent among
these must be reckoned the illustration it affords of a growing disposition to say, "No putting
To-day into Yesterday's coffin; let the Present live and be its own lord."

We need be at no loss to discover the effects of the combined influences here stated. The ordinary
phrases of our country-people denote an alert judgment,--as, "I reckon," "I calculate," "I
guess." The inventiveness which characterizes Americans, the multiplicity of patents, comes
from the tendency to go behind the actual, to test possibilities, to bring everything to the
standard of thought. Emerson dissolves England in the alembic of his brain, and makes a thought
of that. Our politics are yearly becoming more and more questions of principle, questions of
right and wrong. There is almost infinite promise and significance in this gradual victory
of the moral over the political, of life over mechanism. Mr. Benton complains of the "speculative
philanthropy" of New England, because it suggests questions upon which he could not meet his
constituents, and interferes with his domestic arrangements. It is much as if one should pray
God to abolish the sun because his own eyes are sore!

       *       *       *       *       *

We now pass to the second great tendency which, as is here affirmed, organization and moral
discipline are unitedly tending to establish on this shore. An inevitable consequence of the
nervous intensity and susceptibility characteristic of Americans is an access of personal magnetism,
or influence; we keenly feel each other, have social impressibility. The nervous is the public
element in the body, the mediating and communicating power. It is the agent of every sense,--of
sight, hearing, taste, touch, smell,--and of the power of speech. It is the vehicle of all
fellow-feeling, of all social sympathy. It introduces man to man, and makes strangers acquainted.
And a most unceremonious master of these ceremonies it is;--running indiscriminately across
ranks; introducing beggar and baron; forcing the haughtiest master, spite of his theories,
to feel that the slave is a man and a fellow; compelling the prince to acknowledge the peasant,--not
with a shake of the hand, perhaps, but, it may be, with knee-shakings and heart-shakings. A
terrible leveller and democrat is this master element in the human frame; yet king and kaiser
must entertain him in courts and on thrones. Now the high development of this in the American
Man renders him communicative, gives him a quick interest in men; he cannot let them pass without
giving and taking. Hence the much-blamed inquisitiveness,--"What is your name? Where do you
live? Where are you going? What is your business? Do you eat baked beans on Sunday?" Mrs. Trollope
is horrified; it is a bore; but one likes the man the better for it. He is interested in you;--that
is the simple secret of all. King Carlyle calls us "eighteen millions of bores." To be sure;
is that so bad? The primitive English element was pirate; let the primitive American be bore.
The fathers of the Britain that is took men by the throat; let the fathers of the America that
is to be take them by the--button;--that is amelioration enough for one thousand years! In
truth, this intense personal interest which characterizes the American, though often awkwardly
manifested and troublesome, is an admirable feature in his constitution, and few traits should
awaken our pride or expectation more. It is this keen fellow-feeling that fits him for the
broadest and most beneficent public interest. This makes him a philanthropist. And his philanthropy
is peculiar. It is not merely of the neighborhood sort, such as sends a Thanksgiving turkey
to poor Robert and a hat that does not fit well to poor Peter. For here the predilection for
principles and generalizations comes in, and leads him to translate his fellow-feeling into
social axioms. Thus it occurs that the American is that man who is grappling most earnestly
and intelligently with the problem of man's relation to man. In every village is some knot
of active minds that brood over questions of this kind. The monarch newspaper of America is
deeply tinged with the same hue; nor could one with a contrary complexion attain its position.
This great current of human interest floats our politics; it feeds the springs of enthusiasm,
coming forth in doctrines of non-resistance, of government by love, and the like; and our literature
contains essays upon love and friendship which, in our judgment, are not equalled in the literature
of the world.

Nor is a moral discipline wanting to second this tendency. A terrible social anomaly has been
forced upon us,--has had time to intertwine itself with trade, with creeds, with partisan prejudice
and patriotic pride, and, having become next to unconquerable, now shows that it can keep no
terms and must kill or be killed. And through this the question of man's duties to man, on
the broadest scale, is incessantly kept in agitation. It is like a lurid handwriting across
the sky,--"Learn what man should be and do to his fellow." And the companion sentence is this,--"Thy
justice to the strangers shall be the best security to thine own household."

       *       *       *       *       *

By the co-working of these two grand tendencies we obtain at once the largest speculative breadth
and the closest practical and personal interest. What sweeter promise could any one ask than
that of this rare and admirable combination? Thought and action have been more than sufficiently
separated. The philosopher has discoursed to a few, and in the dialect of the few, in Academic
shades; sanctity has hidden itself away, lost in the joy of its secret contemplations; the
great world has rolled by, unhearing, unheeding,--like London roaring with cataract thunder
around St. Paul's, while within the choral service is performed to an audience of one. Thinking
and doing have hardly recognized each other. Now we are not of those vague, enthusiastic persons
who fancy that all truths are for all ears,--that the highest spiritual fact can be communicated,
where there is no spiritual apprehension to lay hold upon it. He that hath ears, let him hear.
Nor would we attempt to confuse the functions of sayer and doer. But let there be a sympathy
and understanding between them, that, when achieved, will mark an epoch in the world's history.
Nowhere, at least in modern times, have thought and action approached so nearly and intimately
as in America; nowhere is speculative intellect so colored with the hues of practical interest
without limiting its own flight; nowhere are labor and executive power so receptive of pure
intellectual suggestion. The union of what is deepest and most recondite in thought with clear-sighted
sagacity has been well hit by Lowell in his description of the typical American scholar,--

  "Sits in a mystery calm and intense,
  And looks round about him with sharp common-sense."

That is, the New Man has two things that seldom make each other's acquaintance,--Sight and
Insight. Accordingly, our subtilest thinker, whom the scholarly Mr. Vaughan classes with the
mystics and accuses of going beyond the legitimate range even of mystics, has written such
an estimate of the most practical nation in the world as has never been written of that or
any other before. The American knows what is about him, has tact, sagacity, conversance with
surfaces and circumstances, is the shrewdest guesser in the world; and seeing him on this side
alone, one might say,--This is the man of to-day, a quick worker, good to sail ships, bore
mountains, buy and sell, but belonging to the surface, knowing only that. The medal turns,
and lo! here is this 'cute Yankee a thinker, a mystic, fellow of the antique, Oriental in his
subtilest contemplations, a rider of the sunbeam, dwelling upon Truth's sweetness with such
pure devotion and delight that vigorous Mr. Kingsley must shriek, "Windrush!" "Intellectual
Epicurism!" and disturb himself in a somewhat diverting manner. Pollok declaimed against the
attempt to lay hold of the earth with one hand and heaven with the other. But that is the peculiar
feat for which the American is born,--to bring together seeing and doing, principle and practice,
eternity and to-day. The American is given, they say, to extremes. True, but to both extremes;
he belongs to the two antipodes. To the one he appertains by intellectual emancipation and
penetrative power; to the other by his pungent element of sympathy with persons. Speaking of
the older Northern States, and of the people as a whole, we affirm that their inhabitants are
more speculative and more practical, the scholars know more of immediate common interests and
speak more the dialect of the people, while the mechanics know more of speculative truth and
understand better the necessary vocabulary of thought, than any other people.

Lyell says, that the New World is really the Old World,--that there, preëminently, the antique
geological formations are found, and nearer the surface than elsewhere. Thus the physical peculiarity
of our continent is, that here an elaborate and highly finished surface is immediately superimposed
upon the oldest rock, rock wrought in fire and kneaded with earthquake knuckles. We discover
in this a symbol of the American Man. He likewise brings into near association the most ancient
and the most modern. By insight he dwells in the old thoughts, the eternal truths, the meditations
that rapt away the early seers into trance and dream; but he brings these into sharp contact
with life, associates them with the newest work, the toil and interests of this year and day.

We shall find space to mention but one peril which besets the New Man. It is danger of physical
exhaustion. Dr. Kane, the hero of two Arctic nights, came forth to the day only to die. That
which makes the preëminence of our organization makes also its peril. Denmark is said to be
impoverished by the disproportion of the learned to the industrial class; production is insufficient,
and too much of a good thing cripples the country. The nervous system is a learned class in
the body; it contributes dignity and superior uses, but makes no corn grow in the physiological
fields. A brain of great animation and power is a perilous freight for the stanchest body;
in a weak and shattered body it is like gold in a spent swimmer's pocket,--the richer it would
make him on dry land, the less chance it gives him of arriving there. That this danger is not
imaginary too many are able to testify.--Few scenes in Rabelais are more exquisitely ludicrous
than that in which he pictures the monk Panurge in a storm at sea. The oily ecclesiastic is
terrified as only a combination of hypocrite and coward can be; and, in the extremity of his
craven distress, he fancies that any situation on shore, no matter how despicable, would be
paradise. So at length he whines, "Oh that I were on dry land, and somebody kicking me!" In
a similar manner--similar, save that farce deepens to tragedy--many a man in America of opulent
mental outfit, but with only a poor wreck of a body to bear the precious cargo, must often
have been tempted to cry, "Oh that I had a sound digestion, and were some part of a dunce!"
In truth, we are a nation of health-hunters, betraying the want by the search. It were to be
wished that an accurate computation could be made how much money has been paid in the United
States, within a score of years, for patent medicines. It would buy up a kingdom of respectable
dimensions. So eager is this health-hunger, that it bites at bare hooks. The "advertising man"
of Arnold's Globules offers his services as nostrum-puffer-general, and appeals to past success
as proof of his abilities in this line. But Arnold's Globules will sell no whit the worse.
Is the amiable Mr. Knox right, after all? Doubtless, we answer, the American organization is
more easily disordered than the English,--just as a railway-train running at forty miles an
hour is more liable to accident than one proceeding at twenty. Besides, Americans have not
learned to live as these new circumstances require. The New Man is a clipper-ship, that can
run out of sight of land while one of the old bluff-bowed, round-ribbed craft is creeping out
of port; but, from the very nature of his superiorities, he is apt to be shorter-lived, and
more likely to spring a leak in the strain of a storm. He demands nicer navigation. It will
not do for him to beat over sand-bars. Yet dinner-pilotage in this country is reckless and
unscientific to a degree. The land is full of wrecks hopelessly snagged upon indigestible diet.
As yet, it is difficult to obtain a hearing for precaution. Men answer you out of their past
experience,--much like a headstrong personage who was about to attempt crossing a river in
a boat sure to sink. "You will drown, if you go in that thing," said a bystander. "Never was
drowned yet," was the prompt retort; and pushing off, he soon lost the opportunity to repeat
that boast! But this resistance is constantly becoming less. Meantime, numbers of foreseeing
men are waking up, or are already awakened, to the importance of recreation and physical culture,--members
of the clerical profession, to the credit of the craft be it said, taking the lead. Messrs.
Beecher, Bellows, and Hale plead the cause of amusements; the author of "Saints and their Bodies"
celebrates the uses and urges the need of athletic sports; gymnasia are becoming matters of
course in the cities and larger towns; "The New York Tribune" attends to the matter of cookery;
and it is safe to predict that the habits of the people will undergo in time the necessary
changes. That health is possible to Americans ought not to be questioned. Of despair we will
not listen to a word. In crossing the ocean, in the backwoods-experience which everywhere precedes
cultivation, in the excitement which has followed the obliteration of social monopolies and
the throwing open of the wealth of a continent to free competition, the old traditional precautions
have been lost, the old household wisdoms, the old economies of health; and these we have now
to reproduce for ourselves. It will be done. And when this is done, though ancient English
brawn will not reappear, there will be health, and its great blessing of cheerful spirits.
The special means by which this shall be accomplished we leave to the care of the gentlemen
abovenamed, and their compeers--merely putting in one word for gentle exercise, and two words
for the cherishing of mental health, the expulsion of morbid excitements, assume what guise
they may. We should take extreme care not to admit decay at the summit. A healthy soul is a
better prophylactic than belladonna. Refusing to despond respecting American health, we cheerfully
trust that the genius of the New Man will find all required physical support, and due length
of time for demonstrating its quality.

And now we may notice a doubt which some readers will cherish. Is not all this, they may say,
over-sanguine and enthusiastic? Is it not a self-complacent dream? Are the tendencies adverted
to so productive? Is any such genius really forming as is here claimed? Is it not, on the contrary,
now fully understood that the Americans are a commonplace people, meagre-minded money-makers,
destitute of originality? What have they done to demonstrate genius yet?--These skepticisms
are somewhat prevalent nowadays, and are a natural enough reaction from Fourth-of-July flatulencies.
Let them have their day. The fact will vindicate itself. Meanwhile we may remark, that the
appeal to attained performance, in justification of the view taken in this paper of American
abilities and prospects, would obviously place us at undue disadvantage. We speak here, and
are plainly entitled to speak, rather of tendencies than of attainments, of powers forming
themselves in man, and not of results produced without him. Nevertheless, results there are,--admirable,
satisfactory results.

As first of these may be mentioned American Reform. In depth, in breadth, in vigor, in practical
quality, this may challenge comparison with anything of a similar kind elsewhere. This is the
direct outburst of a new life, arising and wrestling with the old forms, habitudes, institutions,
with whatsoever is imported and traditional, on the one hand, and with the crude or barbarous
improvisations of native energy, on the other. It is a force springing out of the summit of
the brain, the angel of its noblest sentiment, going forth with no less an aim than to construct
a whole new social status from ideas. And the token of its superiority is this, that it builds
its new outward life only from the most ancient incorruptible material, out of the eternal
granite of Moral Law. Sweeping social schemes prevail in France. But American Reform is not
a scheme; it is the service of an idea. It is made conservative by that which also makes it
radical, by working in the interest of the moral sentiment.

The Literature of the New World is also worthy of the New Man. We are quite aware that a large
portion of this literature is trash. So was a large part in Shakspeare's, in Cervantes's, in
Plato's age and place. But we admit even that the comparison does not hold,--that an especial
accusation may be brought against the issues of the press in this country. Wise men should
have anticipated this, and, instead of reasoning from the size of our lakes, prairies, and
mountains, and demanding epics and philosophies of us before we are fairly out of our primitive
woods, the critics should have hastened to say,--A colony must have time to strike root, and
to draw up therefrom a new life, before it can arrive at valuable and genuine literary expression.
The Life must come before the Thought. Nothing could be more absurd than the expectation that
American literature should spring away into the air from the top of European performance. Our
first literature was colonial,--that is, imitative, written for the approbation of European
critics,--of course, having somewhat the empty correctness of good school-boy composition.
Next followed what we may call fire-weed literature,--the first rank, raw product of new lands.
Under these two heads a vast number of books must of course be reckoned. But beyond these American
literature has already passed, and now can point to books that spring out of the pure genius
of the New Man. And having only these in mind, we hesitate not to say that there is now sounding
upon these shores a deeper, subtler, and more universal note than is heard in any other land
touched by the Atlantic Sea. We have now writings in several departments of literature, and
in both prose and verse, which are characterized by a breadth and largeness of suggestion,
by a spirituality and a prophetic adherence to the moral sentiment, which justify all that
has here been affirmed or reasoned. And our deepest thought finds a popular reception which
proves it not foreign or exceptional. Wilkinson's "Human Body," the largest piece of speculative
construction which England has produced in two centuries, has not yet, after some eight years,
we believe, exhausted its first edition. Emerson's Poems, still less adapted, one would say,
than the work just mentioned, to the taste of populaces, had reached its fourth edition in
about the same period. Learned works have, of course, a superior reception in the mother-country;
works of pure thought in the daughter. Said to us, during the past season, the subtilest thinker
of Great Britain,--"I must send to America whatever I wish to put in print, unless I pay for
its publication from my own pocket."

And beyond this, there is a hush in the nation's heart, an expectancy, a waiting and longing
for some unspoken word, which sometimes seems awful in the bounty of its promise. I know men
educated to speak, with the burden of a speaker's vocation on their hearts, but now these many
years remaining heroically silent; the fountains of a fresh consciousness sweet within them,
but not yet flowing into speech, and they too earnest, too expectant, too sure of the future
to say aught beneath the strain. "Why do you not speak?" was inquired of one. "Because I can
keep silent," he said, "and the word I am to utter will command me." No man assumes that attitude
until he is already a party to the deepest truth, is the silent side of a seer; and in a nation
where any numbers are passing this more than Pythagorean lustrum, a speech is surely coming
that will no more need to apologize for itself than the speech of the forest or the ocean-shore.
The region of the trade-winds is skirted with calm. Sydney Smith said of Macaulay, that his
talk, to render it charming, "needed only a few brilliant flashes of silence." We are talkative,
but the flashes of silence are not wanting, and there is prophecy in them as well as charm.
Said one, of a speaker,--"He was so rarely eloquent, that what he did not say was even better
than what he did." And here, not only are some wholly silent, but in our best writings the
impressive not-saying lends its higher suggestion than that expressly put forth. What spaces
between Emerson's sentences! Each seems to float like a solitary summer-cloud in a whole sky
of silence.

Yes, the fact is already indubitable, a rich life, sure in due time of its rich expression,
is forming here. As out of the deeps of Destiny, the Man for the Continent, head-craftsman,
hand-craftsman, already puts his foot to this shore. All hail, new-comer! Welcome to great
tasks, great toils, to mighty disciplines, to victories that shall not be too cheaply purchased,
to defeats that shall be better than victories! We give thee joy of new powers, new work, unprecedented
futures! We give the world joy of a new and mighty artist to plan, a new strong artisan to
quarry and to build in the great architectures of humanity!

THE POET KEATS.

  His was the soul, once pent in English clay,
  Whereby ungrateful England seemed to hold
  The sweet Narcissus, parted from his stream,--
  Endymion, not unmindful of his dream,
  Like a weak bird the flock has left behind.

  Untimely notes the poet sung alone,
  Checked by the chilling frosts of words unkind;
  And his grieved soul, some thousand years astray,
  Paled like the moon in most unwelcome day.

  His speech betrayed him ere his heart grew cold;
  With morning freshness to the world he told
  Of man's first love, and fearless creed of youth,
  When Beauty he believed the type of Truth.

  In the vexed glories of unquiet Troy,
  So might to Helen's jealous ear discourse
  The flute, first tuned on Ida's haunted hill,
  Against OEnone's coming, to betray
  In what sweet solitude her shepherd lay.

  Yet, Poet-Priest! the world shall ever thrill
  To thy loved theme, its charm undying still!
  Hearts in their youth are Greek as Homer's song,
  And all Olympus half contents the boy,
  Who from the quarries of abounding joy
  Brings his white idols without thought of wrong.

  With reverent hand he sets each votive stone,
  And last, the altar "To the God Unknown."

  As in our dreams the face that we love best
  Blooms as at first, while we ourselves grow old,--
  As the returning Spring in sunlight throws
  Through prison-bars, on graves, its ardent gold,--
  And as the splendors of a Syrian rose
  Lie unreproved upon the saddest breast,--
  So mythic story fits a changing world:
  Still the bark drifts with sails forever furled.
  An unschooled Fancy deemed the work her own,
  While mystic meaning through each fable shone.

HER GRACE, THE DRUMMER'S DAUGHTER.

Foray, a mass of crags embellished by some greenness, looked up to heaven a hundred miles from
shore. It was a fortified position, and a place of banishment. In the course of a long war,
waged on sea and land between two great nations, this, "least of all," became a point of some
importance to the authority investing it; the fort was well supplied with the machinery of
death, and the prison filled with prisoners. But peace had now been of long continuance; and
though a nation's banner floated from the tower of the fort, and was seen afar by mariners,--though
the cannon occupied their ancient places, ordered for instant use,--though all within the fort
was managed and conducted day by day with careful regard to orders,--the operations indicated,
in the spirit of their conduct, no fear of warlike surprises. No man gave or obeyed an order
as if his life depended on his expedition. Neither was the prison the very place it had been;
for, once, every cell had its occupant,--an exile, or a prisoner of war.

The officials of the island led an easy life, therefore. Active was the brain that resisted
the influences of so much leisure as most of these people had. But, under provocation even,
Nature must be true. So true is she, indeed, that every violation of her dignities illustrates
the meaning of that sovereign utterance, VENGEANCE IS MINE. She will not bring a thorn-tree
from an acorn. Pray, day and night, and see if she will let you gather figs of thistles. Prayer
has its conditions, and faith is not the sum of them.

But Nature's buoyant spirits must needs conquer the weight of influences whose business is
to depress. And they, seeking, find their centre among things celestial, in spite of all opposing.
Much leisure, light labor, was not the worst thing that could befall some of the men whose
lot was cast on Foray.

Adolphus Montier was a member of the military band. He was drummer to the regiment by the grace
of his capacity. Besides, he played on the French horn, to the admiration of his wife, and
others; and he could fill, at need, the place of any missing member of the company, leaving
nothing to be desired in the performance.

Adolphus came to Foray in the first vessel that brought soldiers hither. He saw the first stone
laid in the building of the fort. Here he had lived since. He was growing gray in the years
of peace. He had some scars from the years of strife, he was a brave fellow, and idleness,
a devil's bland disguise, found no favor with him.

His daughter Elizabeth was the first child born on the island. Bronzed warriors smiled on her
fair infancy; sometimes they called her, with affectionate intonation, "The Daughter of the
Regiment." She deserved the notice they bestowed,--as infancy in general deserves all it receives,--but
Elizabeth for other reasons than that she had come whence none could tell, and was going whither
no man could predict,--for other reason than that she was the first discovered native of the
island. She was a beautiful child; and I state this fact not specially in deference to the
universal expectation that a character brought forward for anybody's notice should be personally
capable of fascinating such. Indeed, it seems inevitable that we find our heroines and heroes
in life beautiful. Miss Nightingale must needs remain our type of pure charity in person, as
in character. Elisha Kent Kane among his icebergs must stand manifestly efficient for his "princely
purpose," his eye and brow magnificent with beauty. Rachel, to every woman's memory, must live
the unparalleled Camille.

Little Elizabeth--I smile to write her name upon the page with these--it were a shame to cheat
of beauty by any bungle of description. Is not a fair spirit predestined conqueror of flesh
and blood? Have we not read of the noble lady whose loveliness a painter's eye was the very
first to discover? Where the likeness? The soul saw it, not the eye; and he understood, who,
seeing it, exclaimed, "Our friend--in heaven!" While Adolphus Montier cleaned and polished
his French horn, an occupation which was his unfailing resource, if he could find nothing else
to do, or when he practised his music, business in which he especially delighted when off duty,
it was his pleasure to have wife and child with him.

Imagination was an active power in the Drummer's sphere. He, away off in Foray, used to talk
about the forms and colors of sounds, as if he knew about them; and he had not learned the
talk in any school. He would have done no injury to transcendentalism. And he was a happy man,
in that the persons before whom he indulged in this manner of speech rather encouraged it.
Never had his Pauline's pride and fondness failed Adolphus the Drummer. Life in Foray was little
less than banishment, though it had its wages and--renown; but Pauline made out of this single
man her country, friends, and home. Never woman endeavored with truer single-heartedness to
understand her spouse. In her life's aim was no failure. Let him expatiate on sound to the
bounds of fancy's extravagance, she could confidently follow, and would have volunteered her
testimony to a doubter, as if all were a question of tangible fact, to be definitely proved.
So in every matter. For all the comfort she was to the man she loved, for her confidence in
him who deserved it, for her patient endurance of whatsoever ill she met or bore, for choosing
to walk in so peaceful a manner, with a heart so light and a face so fair, praise to the Drummer's
wife!

Elizabeth, the companion of her parents in all their happy rambling and unambitious home-life,
was their joy and pride. If she frolicked in the grass while her father played his airs, she
lost not a strain of the music. She hearkened also to his deep discourse, and gave good heed,
when he illustrated the meaning of the tunes he loved to play. And these were rarely the stirring
strains with which the Governor's policy kept the band chiefly busy when the soldiers gathered
on summer nights in knots of listeners, and the ladies of the fort, the Governor's wife, and
the wives of the officers, came out to enjoy the evening, or when a vessel touched the rocky shore.

Elizabeth's vision was clearer than even love could make her mother's,--clearer than music
made her father's; since a distinct conception of images seems not to be inevitable among the
image-makers. The prophets are not always to be called upon for an interpretation. No white
angel ever floats more clearly before the eyes of those who look on the sculptor's finished
work than before the eyes of Elizabeth appeared the shapes and hues of sounds which swept in
gay or solemn procession through the windings of her father's horn, floating over the blue
water, dissolving as the mist. No bright-winged bird, fair flower, or gorgeous sunset or sea-wave,
was more distinct to the child's eyes than the hues of the same notes, stately as palm or pine,--red
as crimson, white as wool, rich and full as violet, softly compelling as amethyst.

Pauline Montier was by nature as active and diligent as Adolphus. She was a seamstress before
the days of Foray and the Drummer, and still continued to ply her needle, though no longer
urged by necessity. She sewed for the officers' wives, she knit stockings and mufflers for
the soldiers. The income thus derived independently of Montier's public service was very considerable.

Born of such parents, Elizabeth would have had some difficulty in persuading herself that her
business was to idle through this life.

Her early experiences were not as peaceful as those which followed her tenth year. The noise
of battle, the cries of defeat, the shouts of victory, the sight of agonized faces, the vision
of death, the struggles of pain and anguish, the sorrow of bereavement,--she had seen all with
those young eyes. She had heard the whispered command in hushed moments of mortal danger, and
the shout of triumph--in the tumult of victory,--had watched blazing ships, seen prisoners
carried to their cells, attended the burial of brave men slain in battle, had marched with
soldiers keeping time to funeral strains. Her courage and her pity had been stirred in years
when she could do no more than see and hear. Once standing, through the heat of a bloody engagement,
by the side of a lad, a corporal's son, who was stationed to receive and communicate an order,
a random shot struck the boy down at her side. She saw that he was dead,--waited for the order,
transmitted it, and then carried away the lifeless body of her fellow-sentinel, staggering
under the weighty burden, never resting till she had laid him in the shelter of his father's
quarters. After the engagement, this story was told through the victorious ranks by the witnesses
of her valor, and a medal was awarded the child by acclamation. She always wore it, and was
as proud of it as a veteran of his ribbons and stars.

But now, in times of peace, the fair flower of her womanhood was forming. Like a white hyacinth
she grew,--a lady to look upon, with whom, for loveliness, not a lady of the fort could be
compared. Not one of them in courage or unselfishness exceeded her.

The family lived in a little house adjoining the barracks. It was a home that could boast of
nothing beyond comfort and cleanliness;--the word comfort I use as the poor man understands
it. Neither Adolphus nor Pauline had any worldly goods to bring with them when they came to
Foray. They lived at first, and for a long time, in the barracks; the little house they now
occupied had once been used for the storage of provisions; but when the war ended, Adolphus
succeeded in obtaining permission to turn it into a dwelling-house. Here the child was sheltered,
and taught the use of a needle; and here she learned to read and write.

In the great vegetable garden which covered the space between the prison and the fort was a
corner that reflected no great credit on the authorities. The persons who might reasonably
have been expected to take that neglected bit of ground under their loving care did no such
thing. The beds were weeded by Sandy, the gardener, and now and then a blossom rewarded that
attention; but the flower-patch waited for Elizabeth.

The gardener knew very well how she prized the pretty flowers;--they appealed to his own rude
nature in a very tender way. He loved to see the young girl flying down the narrow paths as
swiftly as a bird, if she but spied a bloom from afar. There was a tree whose branches hung
over the wall, every one of them growing, with dreadful perversity, away from the cold, hard
prison-ground which held the roots so fast. Time was never long enough when she sat in the
shade of those branches, watching Sandy at his work.

By-and-by it happened that the flower-garden was given over to the charge of the girl. It was
natural that she, who had never seen other flower-beds than these, should, aided by the home-recollections
of her mother, imagine far prettier,--that she should dare suggest to Sandy, until his patience
and his skill were exhausted,--that the final good result should have come about in a moment
when no one looked for it,--he giving up his task with vexation, she accepting it with humility,
and both working together thereafter, the most helpful of friends.

It required not many seasons for Elizabeth to prove her skill and diligence in the culture
of this garden-ground,--not many for the transformation of square, awkward beds into a mass
of bloom. How did those flowers delight the generous heart! With what particular splendor shone
the house of Montier through all the summer season! The ladies now began to think about bouquets,
and knew where they could find them. From this same blessed nook the Governor's table was daily
supplied with its most beautiful ornament. Men tenderly disposed smiled on the young face that
from under the broad-brimmed garden-hat smiled back on them. Some deemed her fairer than the
flowers she cared for.

One day in the spring of the year that brought her thirteenth birthday, Elizabeth ran down
through the morning mist, and plucked the first spring flower. She stayed but to gather the
beauty whose budding she had long watched; no one must rob her mother of this gift.

She carried off the prize before the gaze of one who had also hailed it in the bleak, drear
dawn. This was not the gardener;--and there was neither man, woman, nor child in sight, during
the swift run;--no freeman; but a prisoner in an upper room of the prison. Through its grated
window, the only one on that side of the building, he had that morning for the first time looked
upon the island which had held him long a prisoner.

Since daybreak he had stood before the window. The evening before, the stone had been rolled
away from the door of his sepulchre,--not by an angel, neither by force of the resistless Life-spirit
within, shall it be said? Who knows that it was not by an angel? who shall aver it was not
by the resistless Life? At least, he was here,--brought from the cell he had occupied these
five years,--brought from the arms of Death. His window below had looked on a dead stone-wall;
this break in the massive masonry gave heaven and earth to him.

The first ray of daylight saw him dragging his feeble body to the window. He did not remove
from that post till the rain was over,--nor then, except for a moment. As the clouds rose from
the sea, he watched them. How strange was the aspect of all things! Thus, while he had lived
and not beheld, these trees had waved, these waters rolled, these clouds gathered,--grass had
grown, and flowers unfolded; for he saw the scarlet bloom before Elizabeth plucked it. And
all this while he had lived like a dead man, unaware! Not so; but now he remembered not the
days, when, conscious of all this life, he had deathly despair in his heart, and stones alone
for friends.

Imprisonment and solitude had told upon the man. He was still young, and one whom Nature and
culture had fitted for no obscure station in the world. He could, by every evidence he gave,
perform no mere commonplaces of virtue or of vice. The world's ways would not assign his limitation.
He was capable of devising and of executing great things,--and had proved the power; and to
this his presence testified, even in dilapidation and listlessness.

His repose was the repose of helplessness,--not that of grace or nature. The opening of this
prospect with the daylight had not the effect to increase his tranquillity. His dejection in
the past months had been that of a strong man who yields to necessity; his present mood was
not inspired with hope. The waves that leaped in the morning's gloomy light were not so aimless
as his life seemed to him. He had heard a bird sing in the branches of a tree whose roots were
in the prison-yard,--now he could see her nest; he had heard the dismal pattering of the rain,--and
now beheld it, and the clouds from which it fell; he saw the glimpses of the blue beyond, where
the clouds were breaking; he saw the fort, the cannon mounted on the walls, the flag that fluttered
from the tower, the barracks, the parade-ground, and the surrounding sea, whose boundaries
he knew not; he saw the trees, he saw the garden-ground. Slowly his eyes scanned all,--and
the soul that was lodged in the emaciated figure grew faint and sick with seeing. But no tears,
no sighs, no indications of grief or despair or desperate submission. He had little to learn
of suffering;--that he knew. How could he greet the day, hail the light, bless Nature for her
beauty, thank God for his life? Oh, the weariness with which he leaned his head against those
window-bars, faint and almost dying under the weight of thoughts that rushed upon him, fierce
enough to slay, if he showed any resistance! But he manifested none. The day of struggle was
over with him. He believed that they had brought him to this room to die. If any thought could
give him joy, surely it was this. He was right. Yesterday the Governor of the island, hearing
the condition of the prisoner, this one remaining man of all whose sentence had been endured
within these walls, had ordered a change of scene for him. His sentence was imprisonment for
life. Did they fear his release by the hands of one who hears the sighing of the prisoner,
and gives to every bondman the Year of Jubilee? Were they jealous and suspicious of the approach
of Death?

Though he had been so long a prisoner, he showed in his person self-respect and dignity of
nature. His hair and beard were grown long; many a gray thread shone in his chestnut locks;
his mouth was a firm feature; his eyes quiet, but not the mildest; his forehead very ample;
he was lofty in stature;--outside the prison, a freeman, his presence would have been commanding.
But he needed the free air for his lungs, and the light to surround him,--the light to set
him in relief, the sense of life to compel him to stand out in his own powerful individuality,
distinct from every other living man.

By-and-by, while he stood at the window, looking forth upon the strange scenes before him,
this new heaven and new earth, the landscape became alive. The first human creature he had
seen outside his cell since he became an inmate of this prison appeared before his eyes,--the
young girl skipping through the garden till she came to the flower-bed and plucked the scarlet
blossom. If she had been a spirit or an angel, he could hardly have beheld her with greater
surprise.

She was singing when she came. He thought he recognized that voice,--that it was the same he
had often heard from the cell below. Many a time the horrible stillness of that cell had been
broken by the sound of a child's voice, which, like a spirit, swept unhindered through the
walls,--an essence of life, and a power.

It was but a moment that she paused before the flower; she plucked it, and was gone. But his
eyes could follow her. She did not really, with her disappearing, vanish. And yet this vision
had not to him the significance of the bow seen in the cloud, whose interpreter, and whose
interpretation, was the Almighty Love.

All day he stood before that window. The keeper hailed the symptom. The Governor was satisfied
with the report. Towards sunset the rain was over, and with the sun came forth abundant indications
of the island life. The gardener walked among the garden-beds and measured his morrow's work,
calculating time and means within his reach,--and vouchsafing some attention to the flower-garden,
as was evident when he paused before it and made his thoughtful survey. The prisoner saw him
smile when he took hold of the broken stalk which had been flower-crowned. And Sandy saw the
prisoner.

The next day Elizabeth came out with the gardener, and they began their day's work together.
They seemed to be in the best spirits. The smell of the fresh-turned earth, the sight of the
fresh shoots of tender green springing from bulb and root and branch, acted upon them like
an inspiration. The warm sun also held them to their task. Sandy was generous in bestowing
aid and counsel,--and also in the matter of his land,--trenching farther on the ground allotted
to the vegetables than he had ever done before.

"The land must pay for it," said he. "We'll make a foot give us a yard's worth. Cram a bushel
into a peck, though 'The Doctor' said you never could do that! I know how to coax."

"Yes, and you know how to order, if you have not forgotten, Sandy. You frightened me once for
taking an inch over my share."

"That was a long while back," answered honest Sandy,--"before I knew what the little girl could
do. I've seen young folk work at gardening afore, but you do beat 'em all. How could I tell
you would, though? You don't look it. Yes,--may-be you do, though. But you've changed since
I first knew you."

"Why, I was nothing but a baby then, Sandy."

"Yes, yes,--I know; but you're changed since then!"

So they all spoke to Elizabeth, praising her, confiding in her with loving willingness,--the
Daughter of the Regiment.

The gardener was proud of his assistant, and seemed to enjoy the part she took in his labor.
They worked till noon, Elizabeth stopping hardly a moment to rest. All this while the prisoner
stood watching by his window, and the gardener saw him. The sight occasioned him a new perplexity,
and he gravely considered the subject. It was a good while before he said to Elizabeth, speaking
on conviction, in his usual low and rather mysterious tone,--

"There's some one will enjoy it when all's done."

"Who is that?" asked she, thinking he meant herself, perhaps.

"One up above," was the answer.

But though Sandy spoke thus plainly, he did not look toward the prison,--and the prison was
the last place of which Elizabeth was thinking. It was so long a time since the cell with the
window had an occupant, that she was almost unconscious of that gloomy neighborhood. So, when
the gardener explained that it was one up above who would enjoy her work, her eyes instantly
sought the celestial heights. She was thinking of sun, or star, or angel, may-be, and smiling
at Sandy's speech, for sympathy.

He saw her new mistake, and made haste to correct this also.

"Not so high," said he, cautiously.

Then, but as it seemed of chance, and not of purpose, the eyes of Elizabeth Montier turned
toward the prison-wall, and fixed upon that window, the solitary one visible from the garden,
and her face flushed in a manner that told her surprise--when she saw a man behind the iron bars.

"Oh," said she, looking away quickly, as if conscious of a wrong done, "what made you tell me?"

"I guess you will like to think one shut up like him will take a little pleasure looking at
what he can't get at," said Sandy, almost sharply,--replying to something he did not quite
understand, the pain and the reproof of Elizabeth's speech.

"Oh, yes!" she answered, and went on with her work.

But though she might be pleased to think that her labor would answer another and more serious
purpose than her own gratification, or that of the pretty flowers, it was something new and
strange for the girl to work under this mysterious sense of oversight.

"You have only got to speak the word," said the gardener, who had perceived her perplexity,
and was desirous of bringing her speedily to his view of the case, "just speak, and he will
be carried back to his old cell below, t'other side."

"Will he?"

"Yes,--sure's you live, if he troubles you, Miss Elizabeth. Nobody will think of letting him
trouble you."

"Oh, me!" she exclaimed, quickly, "I should die quicker than have him moved where he couldn't
see the garden."

"I thought so," said Sandy, satisfied.

"Did you think I would complain of his standing by his window, Sandy?"

"How did I know you would like to be stared at?" asked he, with a laugh.

Elizabeth blushed and looked grave; to her the matter seemed too terrible.

"I might have said something," she mused, sadly.

"And if it had been to the wrong person," suggested Sandy;--"for they a'n't very fond of him,
I guess."

"Who is he, then? I never heard."

"He has been shut up in that building now a'most five year, Elizabeth," said Sandy, leaning
on the handle of the spade he had struck into the ground with emphasis.

"Five years!"

"Summer heat, and winter cold. All the same to him. No wonder he sticks, as if he was glued,
to the window, now he's got one worth the glass."

"Oh, let him!"

"If he could walk about the garden, it would be better yet."

"Won't he, Sandy?"

"I can't say. He's here for some terrible piece of work, they say. And nobody knows what his
name is, I guess,--hereabouts, I mean. I never heard it. He won't be out very quick. But let
him look out, any way."

"Oh, Sandy! I might have said something that would have hindered!"

"Didn't I know you wouldn't for the world? That's why I told you."

The gardener now went on with his spading. But Elizabeth's work seemed finished for this day.
Above them stood the prisoner. He guessed not what gentle hearts were pitiful with thinking
of his sorrow.

The next day the prisoner was not at the window, nor the next day, nor the next. Sandy was
bold enough to ask the keeper, Mr. Laval, what was the meaning of it, and learned that the
man was ill, and not likely to recover. Sandy told Elizabeth, and they agreed in thinking that
for the poor creature death was probably the least of evils.

But the day following that on which they came to this conclusion, the sick man appeared before
Sandy's astonished eyes. He was under the keeper's care. The physician had ordered this change
of air, and they came to the garden at an hour when there was least danger of meeting other
persons in the walks.

Sandy had much to tell Elizabeth when he saw her next. She trembled while he told her how he
thought that he had seen a ghost when the keeper came leading the prisoner, whose pale face,
tall figure, feeble step, appeared to have so little to do with human nature and affairs.

"Did he seem to care for the flowers? did he take any?" she asked.

"No,--he would not touch them. The keeper offered him whatever he would choose. He desired
nothing. But he looked at all, he saw everything,--even the beds of vegetables," Sandy said.

"Did he seem pleased?" Elizabeth again asked.

"Pleased!" exclaimed Sandy. "That's for you and me,--not a man that's been shut up these five
years. No,--he didn't look pleased. I don't know how he looked; don't ask me; 'tisn't pleasant
to think of."

"I would have made him take the flowers, if I had been here," said Elizabeth, in a manner that
seemed very positive, in comparison with Sandy's uncertain speech.

"May-be,--I dare say," Sandy acquiesced; but he evidently had his doubts even of her power
in this business.

She must take no notice of the prisoner, she was given to understand one day, if she was to
remain in the garden while he walked there. So she took no notice.

He came and went. Manuel, the keeper called him; and she was busy with her weeding, and neither
saw nor heard. Ah, she did not!--did not see the figure that came moving like a spectre through
the gates!--did not hear the slow dragging step of one who is weary almost to helplessness,--the
listless step that has lost the spring of hope, the exultation of life, the expectation of
spirit, the strength of manhood!--She did hear, did see the man. We feel the nearness of our
friend who is a thousand miles away. Something beside the sunshine is upon us, and receives
our answering smile. That sudden shadow is not of the passing cloud. That voice at midnight
is not the disturbance of a dream.--He walked about the garden; he retired to his cell. It
might have been an hour, or a minute, or a day. It does not take time to dream a life's events.
How is the drowning man whirled round the circle of experiences which were so slow in their
development!

Compassion without limit, courageous purpose impatient of inaction, troubled this young girl.

"You behaved like a lady," said Sandy,--"you never looked up. You needn't run now, I'm sure,
when he thinks of taking a turn. All we've got to do is to mind our own business, Mr. Laval
says. I guess we can. But I did want to let off those chains."

"What chains?" asked Elizabeth, as with a shudder she looked up at Sandy.

"His wrists, you know,--locked," he explained.

"Oh!" groaned the gentle soul, and she walked off, forgetful of the flowers, tools, Sandy,
everything. But Sandy followed her; she heard him calling to her, and before the garden-gate
she waited for him; he was following on a run.

"I can tell you what it's for," said he, for he had no idea of keeping the secret to himself,
and he dared not trust it to any other friend.

"What is it?" she asked,--and she trembled when she asked, and while she waited for his answer.

"For lighting the Church. Would you think that? He did such damage, it wasn't safe for him
to be at liberty. That's how it was. I think he must be a Lutheran;--you know they don't believe
in the Holy Ghost! Of course,--poor fellow!--it's right he should be shut up for warring with
the Church that came down through the holy Apostles, when you know all the rest only started
up with Luther and Calvin. He ought to have knowed better."

"Who told you, Sandy?" asked Elizabeth, as if her next words might undertake to extenuate and
justify.

"It came straight enough, I understand. But--remember--you don't know anything about it. His
name is Manuel, though;--don't dare to mention it;--that's what Mr. Laval calls him. Are you
going? I wouldn't have told you a word, but you took his trouble so to heart. You see, now,
it's right he should be shut up. But let on that you know anything, all the worse for me,--I
mean, him!"

"Yes," said Elizabeth, "you're safe, Sandy. Thank you for telling me."

Sandy walked off with a mind relieved, for he believed in Elizabeth, and had found the facts
communicated too great a burden to bear alone.

She passed through the garden-gate most remote from the fort; it opened into a lonely road
which ran inland from the coast, between the woods and the prison, and to the woods she went.
The shadows were gloomy to-day, for she went among them lamenting the fate of the stranger;--the
mystery surrounding him had increased, not lessened, with Sandy's explanation.

Fighting against the Church was an unimagined crime. Of the great conflict in which he had
taken part, to the ruin of his fortunes, she knew nothing. The disputes of Christendom, had
they been explained, would have seemed almost incredible to her. For, whatever was known and
discussed in the circle of the Governor of the island, Drummer Montier, and such as he, kept
the peace with all mankind. The Church took care of itself, and appeared neither the oppressor
nor the Saviour of the world. What they had fought about in the first years of the possession
of Foray, Montier could hardly have told,--and yet he was no fool. He could have given, of
course, a partisan version of the struggle; but as to its real cause, or true result, he knew
as little as the other five hundred men belonging to the regiment.

While Elizabeth wandered through those gloomy woods, she saw no flowers, gathered no wild fruits,--though
flowers and berries were perfect and abundant. Now and then she paused in her walk to look
towards the prison, glimpses of whose strong walls were to be had through the trees. At length
the sound of her father's horn came loud and clear from the cliffs beyond the wood. It fell
upon her sombre meditation and slightly changed the current. She hurried forward to join him,
and, as she went, a gracious purpose was shining in her face.

When she returned home, it was by the unfrequented prison-way, her father playing the liveliest
tunes he knew. For the first time in their lives they sat down by the side of the lonely road
where they had emerged from the wood; Elizabeth's memory served her to recall every air that
was sweet to her, and she listened while her father played, endeavoring to understand the sound
those notes would have to "Manuel."

Montier could think of no worthier employment than the practice of his music. Especially it
pleased him that his daughter should ask so much as she was now asking: he could not discern
all that was passing in her heart, nor see how many shadows moved before those sweet, serious eyes.

They went home at night-fall together; and the young girl's step was not more light, now that
her heart was troubled by what she must not reveal, even to him.

The next morning Sandy was very busy with Elizabeth, tying up some flowers which had been tossed
about, and broken, many of them, in the night gale, when the keeper came through the gate,
leading this Manuel, who, grim as a spectral shadow, that had been fearful but for its exceeding
pitifulness, stood now between her and all that she rejoiced in. "There!" exclaimed Sandy.
Looking up, she saw them approaching straight along the path that led past the flowerbeds.

"Your flowers had a pretty rough time of it in the storm," said Jailer Laval, as he drew near.
He addressed the drummer's daughter,--but his eyes were on Sandy, with the suspicious and stern
inquiry common to men who have betrayed a secret. But Sandy was busy with his delving.

"Yes," answered Elizabeth, and she looked from the ground up to the faces of these men.

"Is that a rose-bush? That was roughly handled," said Laval, pointing with his stick to the
twisted rose-stalk covered with buds, over whose blighted promise she had been lamenting.

"Yes," said Elizabeth again; but she hardly knew what she said, still less was she aware of
the expression her face wore when she looked at the prisoner. Yes,--even as Sandy said, big
wrists were chained together; he was more like a ghost than a man; his face was pale and hopeless,
and woful beyond her understanding was the majesty of his mien.

At such a price he paid for fights against the Church! But in truth he had not the look of
an evil, warring man. His gravity, indeed, was such as it seemed impossible to dispel. But
only pity stirred the heart of Elizabeth Montier as she looked on him. Surely it was a face
that never, in any excess of passion, could have looked malignance. Ah! and at such a price
he purchased his sunshine, the fresh air, and a near vision of this flower-garden!--in chains!

When she looked at him, his gaze was on her,--not upon the roses. She smiled, for pity's sake;
but the smile met no return. His countenance had not the habit of responding to such glances.
Sombre as death was that face. Then Elizabeth turned hastily away; but as the keeper also moved
on a step, she detained him with a hurried "Wait a minute," and went on plucking the finest
flowers in bloom. Like an iron statue stood the prisoner while she plucked the roses,--it was
but a minute's work,--then she tied the flowers together and laid them on his fettered hands;
whether he would refuse them, whether the gift pained or pleased him, whether the keeper approved,
she seemed afraid to know,--for, having given the flowers, she went away in haste.

It was not long after this first act of friendly courtesy, which had many a repetition,--for
the keeper was at bottom a humane man, and not disposed to persecute his charge, while he was
equally far from any carelessness in guarding or leniency of treatment that would have excited
suspicion as to his purpose, in the minds of the authorities of the island,--not long after
this day, when the fine sympathy betrayed for him by Elizabeth fell on Manuel's heart like
dew, that the wife of the jailer died.

Her death was sudden and unlooked-for, though neither Nature nor the woman could have been
blamed for the shock poor Laval experienced. Death had fairly surrounded her, disarming her
at every point, so that when he called her there was no resistance.

Jailer Laval took the bereavement in a remorseful mood. The first thing to be done now was
the very last he would have owned to purposing during her life-time. Release from that prison
had been the woman's prayer, year in and year out, these ten years, and Death was the bearer
of the answer to that prayer,--not her husband.

But now, from the day of her sudden decease, the prison had become to him dreary beyond endurance.
The mantle of her discontent fell on him, and, having no other confidant beside honest, stupid
Sandy, he talked to him like a man who seriously thought of abandoning his labor, and retiring
to that land across the sea for which his wife had pined during ten homesick years.

Sandy, who might have regarded himself in the light of an "humble instrument," had he been
capable of a particle of vanity or presumption, told Elizabeth Montier, with whom he had held
many a conference concerning prison matters, since Manuel first began to walk along the southern
garden-walk, where the flower-beds lay against the prison-wall. What was her answer? It came
instantly, without premeditation or precaution,--

"Then we must take his place, Sandy."

"We, Miss?" said Sandy, with even greater consternation than surprise.

"Yes," she replied, too much absorbed by what she was thinking, to mind him and his blunders,--"papa
must take the prison."

"Oh!"--and Sandy blushed through his tan at his absurd mistake. Then he laughed, for he saw
that she had not noticed it. Then he looked grave, and wondering, and doubtful. The idea of
Adolphus Montier's pretty wife and pretty daughter changing their pretty home for life in the
dark prison startled him. He seemed to think it no less wrong than strange. But he did not
express that feeling out and out; he was hindered, as he glanced sideways at the young girl
who gazed so solemnly, so loftily, before her. At what she was looking he could not divine.
He saw nothing.

"I wouldn't be overly quick about that," said he, cautiously.

"No danger!" was the prompt reply.

"For I tell you, of all the places I ever see, that prison makes me feel the queerest. I believe
it's one reason I let the flower-garden go so long," owned Sandy. He did not speak these words
without an effort; and never had Elizabeth seen him so solemn. She also was grave,--but not
after his manner of gravity.

"You see what I did with the poor flower-beds, Sandy," said she. "Wait now till you see what
happens to the prison."

But it is one thing to purpose, and another to execute. Far easier for Elizabeth to declare
than to conduct an heroic design. One thing prevented rest day and night,--the knowledge that
Laval's intended resignation must be followed by a new application and appointment. With such
a degree of sympathy had the condition of the captive inspired her, that the idea of the bare
possibility of cruelty or neglect or brutality assuming the jailer's authority seemed to lay
upon her all the responsibility of his future. She must act, for she dared not hesitate.

One evening Adolphus took his horn, and, attended by wife and child, went out to walk. He meant
to send a strain from the highest of the accessible coast-rocks. But Elizabeth changed his
plan. The time was good for what she had to say. Instead of expending his enthusiasm on a flourish
of notes, he was called upon to manifest it in a noble resolution.

When Elizabeth invited her father to a prospect sylvan rather than marine, to the shady path
on the border of the wood between it and the prison, Montier, easily drawn from any plan that
concerned his own inclination merely, let his daughter lead, and she was responsible for all
that followed in the history of that little family. So love defers to love, with divine courtesy,
through all celestial movements.

After playing a few airs, Montier's anticipated evening ended, and another set in. The sympathies
of a condition, the opposite to that of which he had been so happily conscious, pressed too
closely against him. The musician could not, for the life of him, have played with becoming
spirit through any one of all the strains of victory he knew.

Near him, under a tulip-tree, sat Pauline, with her knitting in her hand, the image of peace.
Not so Elizabeth. She was doubting, troubled. But when the bird her father's music moved to
sing was still, she spoke, as she had promised herself she would, asking a question, of whose
answer she had not the slightest doubt.

"Papa, do you know that Mr. Laval is going away?"

"Why, yes, that's the talk, I believe."

"Will they get somebody to take his place?"

"Of course. There's a prisoner on hand yet, you know,--and the house to look after."

"A big house, too, and dreadful dreary," remarked the mother of Elizabeth. "Laval's wife used
to say, when she came up to see me sometimes, it was like being a prisoner to live in that
building. And now she's dead and gone, he begins to think the same."

"Suppose we take Laval's place," suggested Montier, looking very seriously at his wife; but
the suggestion did not alarm her. Adolphus often expressed his satisfaction with existing arrangements
by making propositions of exchange for other states of life, propositions which never disturbed
his wife or daughter. They understood these demonstrations of his deep content. Therefore,
at these words of his, Pauline smiled, and for the reason that the words could draw forth such
a smile Elizabeth looked grave.

"I wish we could, papa," said she.

"You wish we could, you child?" exclaimed her mother, wondering. "It looks so pleasant, eh?"
and the fair face of Pauline turned to the prison, and surveyed it, shuddering.

"For the prisoner's sake," said Elizabeth. "Who knows but a cruel keeper may be put in Laval's
place? He is almost dead with grief, that prisoner is,--I know by his face. After he is gone,
there won't be any prisoner there,--and we could make it very pleasant."

"Pleasant! What do you mean by pleasant?" asked Pauline, inwardly vexed that her child had
suggested the question,--and yet too just, too kindly disposed, to put the subject away with
imperative refusal to consider it. "I never was in a place so horrid."

"But if it was our home, and all our things were there," urged Elizabeth, "it would be different.
It depends on who lives in a house, you know."

"Yes, that is so; it depends a little, but not entirely. It would be more than your mother
could do to make a pleasant-looking place out of that prison. You see it is different in the
situation, to begin with. Up where we live the sun is around us all day, if it is anywhere;
and then the little rooms are so light! If you put a flower into them, you think you have a
whole garden. Besides, it's Home up there, and down here it isn't."--Saying this, Adolphus
rose up quickly, as though he had a mind to quit the spot.

"When they select a man to fill Laval's place, of course they will be careful to choose one
as good and kind," said Pauline, with mild confidence.

"The jailer before him was not good and kind," remarked her daughter.

"They dismissed him for it," said Adolphus, quickly.

"But they said the prisoners were half-starved, and abused every way. It was a good while before
it was found out. That might happen again, and less chance of any one knowing it. He is so
near dead now, it wouldn't take much to kill him."

No one replied to this argument. Pauline and Adolphus talked of other things, and the musician
returned to his music. But all in good time. Elizabeth was capable of patience, and at last
her father said, looking around him to make sure that his remark would have only two listeners,--

"That prisoner isn't a man to be talked of about here. You never heard me mention him. Laval
used to give a--a--bad account of him. He had to be kept alive."

"Till he heard your music, papa, and was moved up to the room with a window. Did he tell you
that?" asked Elizabeth.

"He said he thought the music did him good," acknowledged Adolphus.

"May-be it was the same as with Saul when David played for him. But he does not look like a
bad man, papa. He looks grander than any of our officers. And he has fought battles, they say.
He is very brave."

Both Adolphus and Pauline Montier looked at their daughter with the most profound surprise
when she spoke thus. Not merely her words, but her manner of speaking, caused this not agreeable
perplexity. Her emotion was not only too obvious, it was too deep for their understanding.
The mother was the first to speak.

"How did you hear all this, child? I never heard him talked of in this way. They don't talk
about him at all,--do they, Adolphus?"

"No," he answered; but he spoke the word very mildly. The tone did not indicate a want of sympathy
in the compassion of his daughter.

Elizabeth looked from her mother to her father. What friends had she, if these were not her
friends?

"The jailer told Sandy, and Sandy told me," she said. "But they never talk to any other person.
Oh! I was afraid to hear about it; but now I have heard, I was afraid not to speak. Would it
be so dreadful for you to live here, when we could always have music and the garden? And these
woods seem pleasant, when you get acquainted. Day or night I can't get him out of my mind.
It is just as if you were shut up that way, papa. I am afraid to be happy when any one is so
wretched."

The result was, that Elizabeth's words, and not so much her words as the state of things she
contrived to make apparent by them, brought Adolphus Montier to a clear, resistless sense of
the prisoner's fate. Over the features of that fate he was for days brooding. Now and then
a word that indicated the direction of his thinking would escape him in his wife's hearing.
Silently Pauline followed Adolphus to the end of all this thinking. Once she walked alone along
the unfrequented road that ran between the prison and the wood, down to the sea; and she looked
at the gloomy fortress, and tried to think about it as she should, if certain that within its
walls her lot would soon be cast.

And more than once Montier walked home that way; and if it chanced that he had his horn or
his drum with him, he marched at quickstep, and played the liveliest tunes, and emerged from
the shadows of the wood with a spirit undaunted. He had played for the prisoner, whom he had
never yet seen,--but not more for him than for himself.

One Sunday, when the little family walked out together, Adolphus and his wife fell into a pleasant
train of thought,--and when they were together, thought and speech were generally simultaneous.
As they passed the prison,--for Adolphus had led the way to this path,--Laval was standing
in the door. They stopped to speak with him; whereat he invited them into his quarters.

In this walk, Elizabeth had fallen behind her parents. When she saw them going into the prison,
she quickened her pace, for her father beckoned to her. But she was in no earnest haste to
follow, as became sufficiently manifest when she was left alone.

They had not gone far in their talk, however, when she came to the doorway. Laval, in all his
speech, was a deliberate man, and neither Adolphus nor his wife showed any eagerness in the
conduct of the conversation now begun. The contrast between the gloom of the apartment and
the light and cheerfulness of their own home was apparent to all of them. Elizabeth felt the
oppression under which each of the little party seemed to labor, the instant she joined her
parents. Susceptible as they all were to the influences of Nature, her sunshine and her shadow,
this gloom which fell upon them was nothing more than might have been anticipated.

Jailer Laval was homesick, and innocent of a suspicion of what was passing in the minds of
his guests; he was therefore free in making his complaints, and acknowledged that he was not
fit to keep the prison,--it required a man of more nerve than he had. The dread of the place
which his poor wife had entertained seemed to have taken possession of him since her death.
All the arguments which he once used, in the endeavor to bolster her courage, he had now forgotten.
He was very cautious when he began to speak of the prisoner, and tried to divert Adolphus from
the point by saying that he would much prefer a house full of convicts to one so empty as this.
There was at least something like society in that, and something to do.

Adolphus, in spite of his discontent at hearing merely these deductions of experience, when
his desire was to know something of Manuel, heard nothing of importance. The speech of the
jailer on this subject was not to be had. His mind seemed to be wandering, except when his
wife, or his native land, was referred to; then he brightened into speech, but never once into
cheerfulness. As he sat there in the middle of his chamber, he seemed to represent the genius
of the place,--and anything less enlivening or desirable in the way of human life could hardly
be imagined. Pauline looked at him and sighed. She looked at Adolphus;--a pang shot through
her heart; the shadow of the man seemed to overshadow him. Out of this place, where all appeared
to be fast changing into "goblins damned"!

It was she who led the way; but, pausing in the court-yard, Elizabeth evinced still greater
haste to be gone, for she ran on with fleet step, and a heart heavy with foreboding as to the
result of this interview. She was also impatient to get into the open sunlight, and did not
rest in this progress she was making outward till she had come to the sea-shore. Elizabeth
Montier was in a state of dire perplexity just then, and if she had been asked whether she
would really choose to effect the change proposed in their way of living, it would have been
no easy matter for her to discover her mind.

By the sea-shore she sat down, and her father and mother followed slowly on. They were not
talking as they came. But as they approached the beach, Adolphus could not resist the prospect
before them. Loud was the blast he blew upon his horn, nor did he cease playing until his music
had restored him to a more natural mood than that in which the interview with Laval left him.
The prison was becoming a less startling image of desolate dreariness to him. And Adolphus
was the master-spirit in his family. If he was gay, it was barely possible for his wife and
child to be sad. Of the prison not one word was spoken by either. They had not revealed to
each other their inmost mind when they went into Laval's quarters; they did not reveal it when
they came thence. But as they strolled along the rocky shore, or returned homeward, they thought
of little beside the prison and the prisoner. As to Elizabeth, nothing required of her that
she should urge the matter further. She had neither heart nor courage for such urging.

It was Adolphus himself who spoke to Pauline the next day, after he had deliberately thrown
himself in the way of the prisoner, that he might with his own eyes see what manner of man
he was; for seeing was believing.

"Pauline," said he, almost persuaded of the truth of his own words, "you and Elizabeth would
make a different place of that prison from what it is now. I should like to see it tried."

Pauline Montier made no haste to answer; she was afraid that she knew what he expected of her.

"Do you see," continued Adolphus, "Elizabeth won't speak of it again? But what must she think
of us? He is a man. They say we are all brothers."

"I know it," said, almost sighed, his wife.

"Looking out for our own comfort!" exclaimed Adolphus. "So mighty afraid of doing what we'd
have done for us! Besides, I believe we could make it pretty pleasant. Cool in summer, and
warm in winter. I'd whitewash pretty thorough. And if the windows were rubbed up, your way,
the light might get through."

"Poor Joan Laval!" said Pauline. "Body and mind gave out. She was different at first."

"Do you think it was the prison?" asked Adolphus, quickly, like a man halting between two opinions,--there
was no knowing which way he would jump.

"Something broke her down," replied his wife. She was looking from one window,--he from another.

"Joan Laval was Joan Laval," said Adolphus, with an effort. "Always was. Frightened at her
own shadow, I suppose. But--there! we won't think of it. I know how it looks to you, Pauline.
Very well,--I don't see why we should make ourselves miserable for the sake of somebody who
has got to be miserable anyhow,--and deserves it, I suppose, or he wouldn't be where he is."

"Poor fellow!" sighed Pauline,--as if it were now her turn on the rack.

Here Adolphus let the matter rest. He had overcome his own scruples so far as honestly to make
this proposal to his wife. But he would do no more than propose,--not for an instant urge the
point. Surely, that could not be required of him. Charity, he remembered, begins at home.

But Pauline could not let the matter rest here. Her struggle was yet to come. It was she, then,
who alone was unwilling to sacrifice her present home for the sake of a stranger and prisoner!

Now Pauline Montier was a good Christian woman, and various words of holy utterance began herewith
to trouble her. And from a by no means tranquil musing over them, she began to ask herself,
What, after all, was home? Was happiness indeed dependent on locality when the heart of love
was hers? Could she not give up so little as a house, in order to secure the comfort of a son
of misfortune,--a solitary man,--a dying prisoner? What she would not give up freely might
any day be taken from her. If fire did not destroy it, the government, which took delight in
interference, might see fit to order that the house they occupied should be used again for
the original purpose of storage.

And then the discomforts of the prison began to appear very questionable. She remembered that
Joan Laval was, as Adolphus hinted, weakly, nervous, 'frightened at her own shadow,'--a woman
who had never, for any single day of her life, lived with a lofty purpose,--a cumberer of the
ground, who could only cast a shadow.

She perceived that they would be close to the flower-garden; a minute's walk would lead them
to the pleasant woods,--and Pauline Montier always loved the woods.

Indeed, when she began to take this ground, the first steps of occupation alone could be timid
or doubtful. After that, her humanity, her sympathy, her confidence in her husband and daughter,
drew the woman on, till she forgot how difficult the first steps had been.

She surprised both husband and daughter by saying to Adolphus, the moment she came to her conclusion,
that he had better make inquiry of Laval whether he had signified his intention to resign,
and forthwith seek the appointment from the Governor of the island.

When Pauline said this, she attested her sincerity by making ready to accompany Adolphus at
once to the prison, that they might run no risk of losing the situation by delay. Seeing that
they were of one mind, and entirely confiding in each other, they all went together to the
prison to consult with Laval. Thus it came to pass, that, before the week ended, the charge
of the prison had been transferred to Adolphus Montier.

The family made great efforts in order to impart an air of cheerfulness and home-comfort to
their new dwelling-place. Adolphus whitewashed, according to promise; Pauline scrubbed, according
to nature; they arranged and rearranged their little stock of furniture,--set the loud-ticking
day-clock on the mantel-shelf, and displayed around it the china cups, the flower-vase, and
the little picture of their native town which Adolphus cut from a sheet of letter-paper some
old friend had sent him, and framed with more tender feeling than skill. They did their best,
each one, and said to one another, that, when they got used to the place, to the large rooms
and high ceilings and narrow windows, it would of course seem like home, to them, because--it
was their HOME. Were they not all together? were not these their own household goods, around
them? Still, they needed all this mutual encouragement and heartiness of coöperation which
was so nobly, so generously manifested; and it was sincere enough to insure the very result
of contentment and satisfaction which they were so wise as to anticipate. But the Governor
thought,--The Drummer is getting ambitious; he wants a big house, and authority!

Ex-jailer Laval was exceedingly active in assisting his own outgoing and the incoming of Montier.
He helped Adolphus in the heavy labors of removal, and laughed more during the conduct of these
operations than he had been known to do in years. He said nothing to Prisoner Manuel of the
intended change in jail-administration until the afternoon when for the last time he walked
out with him.

The information was received with apparent indifference, without question or comment, until
Laval, half vexed, and wholly sorrowful for the sad state of the prisoner, said,--

"I am sorry for you, Sir. I can say that, now I'm going off. I've been as much a prisoner as
you have, I believe. And I wish you were going to be set free to-night, as I am. I am going
home! But I leave you in good care,--better than mine. I never have gone ahead of my instructions
in taking care of you. I never took advantage of your case, to be cruel or neglectful. If anything
has ever passed that made you think hard of me, I hope you will forgive it, for I can say I
have done the best I could or dared."

Thus called upon to speak, the prisoner said merely, "I believe you."

Whereat the jailer spoke again, and with a lighter heart.

"I am glad you're in luck this time,--for you are. You don't know who is coming to take the
charge,--come, I mean, for they are all in, and settled. That's Montier, the little girl's
father. He is a drummer, and a little of everything else. It's his horn that you hear sometimes.
And you know Elizabeth, who was always so kind about the flowers. His wife, too, she's a pretty
woman, and kind as kind can be."

"What have they come here for?" asked the prisoner, amazed.

"I'll tell you," said Laval, more generous than he had designed to be; but he knew how he should
wish, when the sea rolled between him and Foray, that he had spoken every comfortable word
in his knowledge to this man; he knew it by his recent experiences of remorse in reference
to his buried wife, and was wise enough to profit by the knowledge;--"I'll tell you. It's on
your account. They were afraid somebody that didn't know how long you have been here, and how
much you have suffered, would get the place; so they all came together and asked for it. They
had a pretty little house up nigh the barracks, but they gave it up to come here. You'll see
Montier to-night. For when I go back to your room with you, then I'm going off to--to"----he
hesitated, for foremost among his instructions was this, that he should remain silent about
his purpose of returning home; he was not to go as a messenger for the prisoner across the
ocean to their native land----"to my business," he said. "If you'll be kind to him, you will
make something by it. I thought I would tell you,--so, when you saw a strange face in your
room, you would know what it meant without asking."

"I thank you," said the prisoner; and to the jailer it now seemed as if the figure of the man
beside him grew in height and strength,--as if he trod the ground less feebly and listlessly
while he spoke these words. A divine consolation must have strengthened him even then, or he
could never have added with such emphasis, "Wherever you go, take this my assurance with you,--you
have not been cruel or careless. You have done as well as you could. I thank you for it."

"You don't ask me where I'm going," said the jailer, after a silence that seemed but brief
to him,--such a deal of argument he had dispatched, so many difficulties he had overcome in
those few moments, whose like, for mental activity and conclusiveness, he had never seen before,
and never would see again. "I shall be asked if I have told you. But--where did you come from?
Do not tell me your name. But whom did you leave behind you that you would care most should
know you are alive and in good hands?"

These questions, asked in good faith, would have had their answer; but while the prisoner was
preparing such reply as would have proceeded, brief and wholly to the point, from the confusion
of hope and surprise, the Governor of Foray came in sight, drew near, and, suspicious, as became
him, walked in silence by the prisoner's side, while Laval obeyed his mute instructions, leading
Manuel back to his cell. A vessel was approaching the shore of Foray.

Having disposed of his prisoner, the jailer in turn was marched, like one under arrest, up
to the fort, where he remained, an object of suspicion, until his time came for sailing, and,
without knowing it, he went home under guard.

When Adolphus Montier ascended to the prisoner's room that night, he found him standing by
the window. After Laval left him, he had looked from out that window, and seen the white sail
of a vessel; he could not see it now, but there he stood, watching, as though he knew not that
his chance of hope was over.

As Adolphus entered the room, the prisoner turned immediately to him,--asking quietly, as if
he had not been suddenly tossed into a gulf of despair by the breeze that brought him hope,--

"Has Laval sailed?"

"When the cannon fired," was the answer.

Then Adolphus placed the dish containing the prisoner's supper on the table; he had already
lighted the lamp in the hall. And now he wanted to say something, on this his first appearance
in the capacity of keeper, and he knew what to say,--he had prepared himself abundantly, he
thought. But both the heart and the imagination of Adolphus Montier stood in the way of such
utterance as he had prepared. The instant his eyes fell on that figure, lonely and forlorn,
the instant he heard that question, his kind heart became weakness, he stood in the prisoner's
place,--he saw the vessel sailing on its homeward voyage,--he beheld men stepping from sea
to shore, walking in happy freedom through the streets of home;--a vision that filled his eyes
with tears was before him, and he was long in controlling his emotion sufficiently to say,--

"We are in Laval's place, Sir, and we hope you will have no cause to regret the change. I don't
know how to be cruel and severe,--but I must do my duty. But I wasn't put here for a tyrant."

"I know why you are here; Laval told me," said the prisoner.

"Then we're friends, a'n't we?" asked Adolphus; "though I must do my duty by them that employ
me. You understand. I'd set every door and window of this building wide open for you, if I
had my way; though I don't know what you're here for. But I swear before heaven and earth,
nothing will tempt me to forget my duty to the government;--if you should escape, it would
be over my dead body. So you see my position."

"Yes," said the prisoner; and if anything could have tempted a smile from him, this manner
of speech would have done it. But Adolphus was far enough from smiling.

"Come, eat something," said he, with tremulous persuasion. "My wife knows how to get up such
things. She will do the best for you she can."

"Thank you."

The prisoner again looked out of the window. It was growing dark; the outline of sea and land
was fading out of sight; dreary looked the world without,--but within the lamp seemed shining
with a brighter light than usual. And here was a person and a speech, a human sympathy, that
almost warmed and soothed him.

He approached the table where Adolphus had spread his supper. He sat in the chair that was
placed for him, and the Drummer waited on him, recommending Pauline's skill again, much as
he might have presented a petition. The prisoner ate little, but he praised Pauline, and said
outright that he had tasted nothing so palatable as her supper these five years. This cheered
Montier a little, but still his spirits were almost at the lowest point of depression.

"You seem to pity me," remarked the prisoner, when Adolphus was gathering up the remains of
the frugal supper.

"My God!--yes!" exclaimed Adolphus, stopping short, and looking at the man.

It was a sort of sympathy that could not harm the person on whom it was bestowed.

"I consider myself well off to-night," said he, quietly. "It is your little daughter that works
in the garden so much? I have often watched her."

"Yes," said Adolphus, almost with a sob.

"And you are the man whose music has been so cheering many a time?"

"I want to know what airs you like best," said the poor Drummer, hurriedly.

"I never heard you play one that I did not like."--Precious praise!

"Then you like music? I can be pretty tolerably severe, Sir, if I make up my mind!" said Adolphus,
as if addressing his own conscience, to set that at rest by this open avowal. "There's no danger
of my doing wrong by the government. I'd have to pay for you with my life. Yes,--for it would
be with my liberty. And there's my wife and child. So you understand where I am, as I told
you before; but, by thunder! you shall have all the music you want, and all the flowers; and
my little girl can sing pretty well,--her mother taught her. And if you're sick, there a'n't
a better nurse in the hospital than Pauline Montier. There! good night!"

Adolphus took up the tray and hurried out of the room,--and forgot to fasten the door behind
him until he had gone half way down the stairs. He came back in haste, and turned the great
key with half the blood in his body burning in his face,--not merely an evidence of the exertion
made in that operation, which he endeavored to perform noiselessly. He was ashamed of this
caging business; but he would have argued you out of countenance then and there, had you ventured
a word against the government,--though, as he said, he was in the dark concerning the prisoner's
crime.

When he went down stairs he found supper prepared, and Pauline and their daughter waiting for
him. He sat down in silence, seeking to avoid the questioning eyes which turned toward him
so expectant and so hopeful. Discerning his mood, neither wife nor daughter troubled him with
questions; at last, of himself, he broke out vehemently,--

"I wouldn't for the world have lost the chance! Laval wasn't the man to take care of that gentleman.
But he don't say a word against Laval, mind you. He spoke about the flowers and the music.
Oh, hang it!"

Here, in spite of himself, the Drummer was wholly overcome. He bowed his head to the table
and broke into violent weeping. Another barrier gave way beside. Elizabeth flew to him. He
seemed not to heed her, nor the sudden cry, "Oh, father!" that escaped her. She sat down by
his side,--she wept as he was weeping. It was a stormy emotion that raged through her heart,
when her tears burst forth. She was not weeping for pity merely, nor because her father wept.
Long before he lifted his head, she was erect, and quiet, and hopeful,--but a child no more.
She was a woman to love, a woman to dare,--fit and ready for the guiding of an angel. By-and-by
Adolphus said to Pauline,--"If any one else had undertaken this job in our place, we should
have deserved to be shut out of heaven for it. Thinking twice about it! I'm ashamed of myself.
Why,--why,--he looks like a ghost. But he won't look that way long! We aren't here to browbeat
a man, and kill him by inches, I take it."

"No, indeed!" said Pauline, as if the bare idea filled her with indignation. The three were
surely one now.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GERMAN POPULAR LEGEND OF DOCTOR FAUSTUS.

We doubt whether any popular legend has ever taken deeper root among the common people and
spread farther in the world than the story of Dr. Faustus and his reckless compact with the
Evil One. We do not intend to compare it, of course, to those ancient traditions which seem
to have constituted a tie of relationship between the most distant nations in times anterior
to history. These are mostly of a mythological character,--as, for instance, those referring
to the existence of elementary spirits. Their connection with mankind has, in the earliest
times, occupied the imagination of the most widely different races. A certain analogy we can
easily explain by the affinity of human hearts and human minds. But when we find that exactly
the same tradition is reëchoed by the mountains of Norway and Sweden in the ballad of "Sir
Olaf and the Erl-king's Daughter," which the milkmaid of Brittany sings in the lay of the "Sieur
Nann and the Korigan," and in a language radically different from the Norse,--when, here and
there, the same forms of superstition meet us in the ancient popular poetry of the Servians
and modern Greeks, which were familiar to the Teutonic and Cambrian races of early centuries,--must
we not believe in a primeval intimate connection between distant nations? are we not compelled
to acknowledge that there must have existed, in those remote times, means of communication
unknown to us?

We repeat, however, that, in calling the legend of Dr. Faustus the most widely-spread we know
of, we cannot allude to these primitive traditions, the circulation of which is perfectly mysterious.
We speak of such popular legends as admit of their origin being traced. Among these the Faustus-tradition
may be called comparatively new. To us Americans, indeed, whose history commences only with
the modern history of Europe, a period of three hundred years seems quite a respectable space
of time. But to the Germans and the Scandinavians, from whose popular lore the names of Horny
Siegfried and Dietric of Berne, (Theodoric the Great,) and of Roland, are not yet completely
erased, a story of the sixteenth century must appear comparatively modern.

The popularity of the legend of Faustus, although of German origin, was, almost from its first
rise, not confined to German lands. The French, Dutch, and English versions of the poor Doctor's
adventurous life are but very little younger than his German biographies; and it was about
the same time that he was made the subject of a tragedy by Marlowe, one of the most gifted
of Shakspeare's dramatic predecessors. We are not afraid of erring, when we ascribe the uncommon
popularity and rapid circulation of this legend principally to its deep and intrinsic moral
interest. Faustus's time of action was exactly the period of the great religious reformation
which shook all Europe. During the sixteenth century, even the untaught and illiterate classes
learned to watch more closely over the salvation of their souls than when they felt themselves
safe beneath the guardianship of the Holy Mother Church. And to those who remained under the
guidance of the latter, the dangers of learning and independent thinking, and of meddling with
forbidden subjects, were pointed out by the monks with two-fold zeal. It cannot, therefore,
surprise us, that the life and death of a famous contemporary, who for worldly goods and worldly
wisdom placed his soul at stake, excited a deep and general interest. In one feature, indeed,
his history bears decidedly the stamp of the great moral revolution of the time: we mean its
awful end. There are two legends of the Middle Ages--and perhaps many more--in which the fundamental
ideas are the same. The two Saints, Cyprianus, (the "Magico Prodigioso" of Calderon,) and Bishop
Theophilus, (the hero of Conrad of Würzburg,) were both tempted by the Devil with worldly goods
and worldly prosperity, and allured into the pool of sin perhaps deeper than Faustus; but repentance
and penitence saved them, and secured to them finally a place among the saints of the Church.
But for Faustus there is no compromise; his awful compact is binding; and whatever hope of
his salvation modern poetry has excited for the unfortunate Doctor is, to say the least, in
direct contradiction of the popular legend.

Faustus was the Cagliostro of the sixteenth century. It is not an easy task to find the few
grains of historical truth referring to him, among the chaff of popular fiction that several
centuries have accumulated around his name. A halo so mysterious and miraculous surrounds his
person, that not only have various other famous individuals, who lived long before or after
him, been completely amalgamated with him, but even his real existence has been denied, and
not much over a hundred years after his death he was declared by scholars to be a mere myth.
A certain J.C. Duerr attempted to prove, in a learned "Dissertatio Epistolica de Johanne Fausto,"
(printed at Altorf, in 1676,) that the magician of that name had never existed, and that all
the strange things which had been related of him referred to the printer John Faust, or Fust,--who
had, indeed, been confounded with him before, although he lived nearly a century earlier. And
when we think of the superstitious fear and monkish prejudice with which the great invention
of printing was at first regarded, such a confusion of two persons of similar name, and both,
in the eyes of a dark age, servants of Satan, cannot surprise us. Our John Faustus was also
sometimes confounded with two younger contemporaries, one of whom was called Faustus Socinus,
and made Poland the chief theatre of his operations; the other, George Sabellicus, expressly
named himself Faustus Junior, also Faustus Minor. Both were celebrated necromancers and astrologers,
who probably availed themselves of the advantage derived from the adoption of the famous name
of Faustus.[1]

A second attempt to prove the historical nonentity of Dr. Faustus was made at Wittenberg, in
the year 1683. Some of his popular biographers had claimed for him a professorship at that
celebrated university, or at least brought him into connection with it,--a pretension which
the actual professors of that learned institution thought rather prejudicial to their honor,
and which they were desirous of seeing refuted. Stimulated, as it would seem, by a zeal of
this kind, J.G. Neumann wrote a "Dissertatio de Fausto Praestigiatore," in which he not only
tried to prove that Dr. Faustus had never been at Wittenberg, but pronounced his whole story
fabulous. An attempt like this would not surprise us in our own time, the age of historical
skepticism; but the seventeenth century gave credit to narratives having much slighter foundation.
Although this dissertation was full of historical mistakes and erroneous statements, it made
some sensation, as is proved by its four successive editions. It was also translated into German.
All Neumann's endeavors, however, could not stand against the testimony of contemporaries,
who partly had known Faustus personally, partly had heard of him from living witnesses, and
allude to his death as an occurrence of recent date.

John Faustus, or rather, after the German form of his name, Faust, was born in the last quarter
of the fifteenth century, probably not before the year 1490. According to the oldest "Volksbuch"
(People's Book) which bears his name,[2] his parents then lived at Roda, in the present Duchy
of Saxe-Weimar. The same place is likewise named as his native village by G.R. Widmann, his
first regular biographer, who says that his father was a peasant.[3] Although these two works
are the foundation of the great number of later ones referring to the same subject, some of
these latter deviate with respect to Faustus's birthplace. J.N. Pfitzer, for instance, who,
seventy years after Widmann, published a revised and much altered edition of his book, makes
Faust see the light at Saltwedel, a small town belonging then to the principality of Anhalt,
and must have had his reasons for this amendment. A confusion of this kind may, indeed, have
early arisen from a change of residence of our hero's parents during his infancy. But the oldest
Volksbuch was written nearly forty years after the death of Faustus, and Widmann's work appeared
even ten years later,--both, indeed, professing to be founded on the Doctor's writings, as
well as on an autobiographical manuscript, discovered in his library after his death. Perhaps,
however, the assertion of two of his contemporaries, one of whom was personally acquainted
with him, is more entitled to credit in this respect. Joh. Manlius and Joh. Wier--the latter
in his biography of Cornelius Agrippa--name Kundlingen, in Würtemberg, as his birthplace.

Manlius, in his work, "Collectanea Locorum Communium," (Basel, 1600,) speaks of him as of an
acquaintance. He says that Faustus studied at Krakow, in Poland, where there was a regular
professorship of Magic, as was the case at several universities. Others let him make his studies
at Ingolstadt, and acquire there the honors of a Doctor of Medicine. Both these statements
may be true, as also that he was for some time the companion and pupil of Cornelius Agrippa,
of Nettesheim, the celebrated scholar, whose learning and mysterious researches after the philosopher's
stone brought him, like many other wise men of the age, into suspicion of witchcraft. Agrippa
had a pet dog, black, like the mystical companion of Dr. Faustus, and, in the eyes of a superstitious
multitude, like him, the representative of the Evil One. Black dogs seem to have been everywhere
considered as rather suspicious creatures. The Pope Sylvester II. had also a favorite black
poodle, in whom the Devil was supposed to have taken up his abode. According to Wier, however,
Agrippa's black dog was quite a harmless beast, and remarkable only for the childlike attachment
which the great philosopher had for him. It may be worth remarking, that this writer, although
he speaks of Faustus in his biography of Agrippa, makes no mention of his ever having been
a friend or scholar of the latter.

In several of the old stories of Faustus, we read that he had a cousin at Wittenberg, who took
him as a boy to his house, brought him up, and made him his heir when he died. If this was
true, it would be more probable that he was a native of Saxony than of Suabia. It is, however,
more probable that this narrative rests on one of the numerous cases found in old writings
in general, and above all in the history of Faustus, in which the names Wittenberg and Würtemberg
are confounded. Our hero's abode at the former place was very probably merely that of a traveller;
he left there, as we shall soon see, a very unenviable reputation. It is true that Saxony was
the principal scene of the Doctor's achievements; but this very circumstance makes it improbable
that he was born and brought up there, as it is well known that "a prophet hath no honor in
his own country."

Faust's studies were not confined to medicine and the physical sciences. He was also considered
eminent as a philologist and philosopher. Physiology, however, with its various branches and
degenerate offshoots, was the idol of the scholars of that age, and of Faustus among the rest.
A passionate desire to fathom the mysteries of Nature, to dive into the most hidden recesses
of moral and physical creation, had seized men of real learning, and seduced them into mingling
absurd astrological and magical fancies with profound and scholarlike researches. The deepest
thinkers of their time, like Nostradamus, Cardan, Cornelius Agrippa, Paracelsus, Thomas Campanella,
flattered themselves that they could enter, by means of art and science, into communion with
good or evil spirits, on whose aid they depended for obtaining knowledge, fame, wealth, and
worldly honors and enjoyments. Faustus was one of those whom a passion for inquiry, in league
with a powerful, sensual nature, led astray. What had been originally an honest thirst for
knowledge, a deep interest in the supernatural, became gradually a morbid craving after the
miraculous, the pretension of having attained the unattainable, and the attempt to represent
it by means of vulgar jugglery.

Dr. Faustus seems at first to have settled as a practising physician, and at this period of
his life Wagner appears as his famulus; for we never find this Philister among scholars as
a companion of the travelling Faustus, although his connection with him was apparently lasting.
According to the popular legend, the Doctor made him his heir, and expressly obtained for him
Auerhahn, (Heathcock,) a familiar spirit in the shape of a monkey. This was a sort of caricature
of Mephistopheles, who became, through his ludicrous clumsiness, a pet-devil of the populace
in the puppet-shows, particularly in Holland. Widmann calls Wagner Waiger; while in all other
publications referring to him he bears his right name, Christoph Wagner.

What city it was where Faustus lived before the reputation of witchcraft made him the subject
of so much talk remains unsettled. Wittenberg and Ingolstadt are alternately named. Some of
his biographers relate, that he led a loose and profligate life, and soon wasted his cousin's
inheritance. Others represent him as a deep, secluded student, laying hold of one science after
another, and unsatisfied by them all, until he found, by means of his physical and chemical
experiments, the secret path to the supernatural, and, in order to reap their full fruits,
allied himself with the hellish powers. Faustus himself tells us, in his "Mirakel-, Kunst-,
und Wunder-buch," (or rather, the author of this book makes him tell us,) how his intercourse
with the Devil commenced almost accidentally and against his intentions:--

"I, Doctor Johann Faust, who apply myself to the Free Arts, having read many kinds of books
from my youth, happened once to light upon a book that contained various conjurations of the
spirits. Feeling some desire to enlarge my ideas on these things, having, indeed, at the beginning,
small belief that the prescriptions of that book would so soon be verified, I tried them only
for an experiment. Nevertheless, I became aware that a mighty spirit, named Astaroth, presented
himself before me, and asked me wherefore I had cited him. Then, hurried as I was, I did not
know how to make up my mind otherwise than to demand that he should be serviceable to me in
various wishes and desires, which he promised conditionale, asking to make a compact with me.
To do this I was at first not inclined; but as I was only provided with a bad circle, being
merely experimenting, I did not dare to bid him defiance, but was obliged to yield to the circumstances.
I therefore made up my mind, inasmuch as he would serve me, and would be bound to me a certain
number of years. This being settled, this spirit presented to me another, named Mochiel, who
was commanded to serve me. I asked him how quick he was. Answer: 'Like the wind.' 'Thou shalt
not serve me! get thee back to whence thou camest!' Now came Aniguel; he answered, that he
was as quick as the bird in the air. 'Thou art still too slow,' I replied; 'begone!' At the
same moment a third stood before me, named Aziel; this one, too, I asked how quick he was.
'Quick as the thought of man.' 'Right for me! thee will I keep!' And I accepted him. This spirit
has served me long, as has been made known by many writings."

Whether it was this quick Aziel, or Astaroth himself, who became Faustus's travelling-companion
under the name of Mephistopheles, or whether the prince of the lower regions in person condescended
to play that part, we do not know; but in all popular stories of the Doctor, his servant bears
the latter name,--while in the various books in which, under the name of Hoellenzwang, the
system of his magic is laid down, he is called Aziel.

In possession of such a power, Faustus soon became tired of his lonely study. He craved the
world for his theatre. His travels seem in reality to have been very extensive, while in the
popular stories a magic mantle carried him over the whole globe. Conrad Gesner, the great physiologist,
who speaks of him with some respect as a physician, comparing him with Theophrastus Paracelsus,
reckons him among the scholastici vagantes, or fahrende Schueler, an order of men already considerably
in the decline, and grown disreputable at that period. As early as the thirteenth century,
we find the custom in Germany, of young clergymen who did not belong to any monkish order travelling
through the land to get a living,--here by instructing in schools for a certain period,--there
by temporarily serving in churches as choristers, sacristans, or vicars,--often, too, as clerks
and copyists to lawyers or other private men. When they could no longer find a livelihood at
one place, they went to another. Their offices became, in course of time, of the most varied
and unsuitable order. They were generally received and treated with hospitality, and this may
have been one reason why all kinds of adventurers were ready to join them. Their unstable mode
of life easily explains their frequenting the society of other vagabonds, who traversed the
country as jugglers, treasure-diggers, quacks, or sorcerers, and that their clerical dignity
did not prevent their occasionally adopting these professions themselves. The Chronicle of
Limburg, in speaking of the Diet of Frankfurt in 1397, says: "The number of princes, counts,
noblemen, knights, and esquires, that met there, amounted to five thousand one hundred and
eighty-two"; adding: "Besides these, there were here four hundred and fifty persons more, such
as fahrende Schueler, wrestlers, musicians, jumpers, and trumpeters." The character of the
clergy having sunk so low, the Church declared itself against the custom, and at several German
councils theological students were expressly forbidden to lead this roving life. It required,
however, considerable time for the ancient custom to become extinct, and we learn, among others,
from Conrad Gesner, that it still existed at the time of the Reformation.

The part played by Faustus was at first in some degree respectable, and that of a scholar.
An old Erfurt Chronicle tells us that he had come to that city and obtained permission from
the university to deliver a course of lectures on Homer. A dark rumor of his magic powers had
preceded him; the students, therefore, thronged to hear him, and, deeply interested, requested
him to let them see the heroes of Homer by calling them from their graves. Faustus appointed
another day for this, received the excited youths in a dark chamber, commanded them to be perfectly
silent, and made the great men of the Greek bard rise up, one by one, before their eyes. At
length Polyphemus appeared; and the one-eyed Cyclops, with his red hair, an iron spear in his
hand, and, to designate him at once as a cannibal, two bloody human thighs in his mouth, looked
so hideous, that the spectators were seized with horror and disgust, the more so that the wily
magician professed to have some difficulty in dismissing the monster. Suddenly a violent shake
of the whole house was felt; the young men were thrown one over another, and were seized with
terror and dismay. Two of the students insisted upon having already felt the teeth of the Cyclops.--This
ridiculous story was soon known throughout the city, and confirmed the suspicions of the Franciscan
monks and magistrates, that the learned guest was in league with the Evil One. It is said that
Faustus had previously offered to procure for them the manuscripts of the lost comedies of
Terence and Plautus, and to leave them for a short time in their hands, to be copied,--but
that the fathers of the city and of the university declined, because they believed this could
be done only by sorcery, or with the help of Satan. Now they sent to him the Guardian of the
Convent, Dr. Klinger, in order to convert him and to have masses read for him, for the purpose
of delivering him from his hellish connection. But Faustus opposed, was by the clergy solemnly
delivered to the Devil, and, in consequence, banished from the city by the magistrates.

We do not know whether it was for similar juggleries, that, when at Wittenberg, the Elector
John the Steadfast ordered him to be arrested, as Manlius relates. He saved himself by flight.
Melancthon, in one of his letters, mentions having made his acquaintance; the whole tone of
the allusion, however, expresses contempt.

The character of the miracles he performed soon ceased to have the literary tincture of the
one related above, and they became mere vulgar juggleries and exhibitions of legerdemain, suited
to the taste of the multitude. Scholars turned their backs on him, and we find him only among
tipplers and associates of the lowest kind. At one of their carousals his half-intoxicated
companions asked him for a specimen of his witchcraft. He declared himself willing to gratify
them in any request. They then demanded that he should make a grape-vine full of ripe fruit
grow out of the table around which they sat. Faustus enjoined complete silence, ordered them
to take their knives and keep themselves in readiness for cutting the fruit, but not to stir
before he gave them leave. And, behold, before the eyes of the gaping youths, while they themselves
were enveloped in a magic mist, there arose a great vine, with as many bunches of grapes as
there were persons in the room. Suddenly the obscuring mist dissolved, and each one saw the
others with their hands at their own noses, ready to cut them off, as the promised grapes.
But the vine and the magician had disappeared, and the disenchanted drunkards were left to
their own rage.

The reader will be aware that this is the tale of which Goethe availed himself in representing
Faustus's visit to Auerbach's cellar at Leipzig. Whether it really occurred there is not stated;
but that Faustus was said to have been at Leipzig, and even in Auerbach's cellar, is an historical
fact, attested by two pictures still extant at this famous old tavern, where many of our curious
American travellers may have seen them. These pictures, which have been retouched and renovated
more than once,--last in 1759,--are marked at the top with the date 1525. Whether this means
the year in which they were painted, or that in which Faustus performed the great feat which
the scene represents, remains uncertain. As it occurred in the beginning of his career, upon
which we may assume him to have entered somewhere between 1520 and 1525, the date is quite
likely to refer to the time of the feat; but, to judge from the costumes and several other
signs, the pictures cannot have been painted much later. They were evidently made expressly
for the locality, sloping off on both sides at the top, to suit the shape of the vault. The
German inscription at the foot of one of the pictures indicates that it was written after the
Doctor's death, which must have occurred between 1540 and 1550; but it is probable that these
verses were added at a later time, the more so as the traces of an older inscription, now no
longer legible, may still be discovered. One of these curious paintings represents Faustus
in company with students and musicians sitting around a table covered with dishes and bottles.
Faustus is lifting his goblet with one hand, and with the other beating time on the table to
the music. At the bottom we read the following verse in barbarous Latin:--

  "Vive. Bibe. Obgregare. Memor Fausti hujus, et hujus
  Poenae. Aderat claudo haec. Ast erat ampla
       Gradu. 1525."[4]

The other picture shows us the same jolly party risen from table, and all expressing their
wonder and astonishment, as Dr. Faustus is just riding out of the door on a wine-tub. Beneath
it is the following inscription in German:--

  "Dr. Faustus zu dieser Frist
  Aus Auerbach's Keller geritten ist,
  Auf einem Fass mit Wein geschwind,
  Welches gesehn manch Mutterkind.
  Solches durch seine subtilne Kunst hat gethan,
  Und des Teufels Lohn empfangen davon.
  1525."[5]

On neither of the two pictures does Mephistopheles appear, unless he is meant to be represented
in the shape of the black dog. It is not, however, Goethe's poodle that meets us here, but
a sleek little creature with a collar around his neck, looking very much like a wooden toy-dog.

Most of the tricks and pranks reported of Dr. Faustus are of the same absurd kind, though not
all of so harmless a character. According to the popular legend, he travelled like a great
lord, had the spirits pave the highways for him when he rode in the post-coach,--it seems,
then, that he did not always use his mantle,--and lived in the taverns at which he stopped
with an unheard-of luxury. On his departure, he paid the hosts in a princely manner; but scarcely
was he out of sight, when the gold in the receiver's hand was changed to straw, or to round
slices of gilded horn,--a shabby trick indeed, as he could have as much money as he liked.

How much we have to believe of all these popular stories we may learn from Dr. Phil. Begardi's
"Zeyger der Gesundtheyt," (Guide to Health,) a book published in 1539, at Worms, at a time
when Faustus seems to have already disappeared from Germany, after having lost caste there
completely, and when he was trying his fortune in other countries.

"There is still another famous man," says Begardi, "whose name I would rather not mention at
all, only that he himself would not wish to remain hidden or unknown. For he was roving, some
years ago, through all the different countries, principalities, and kingdoms, and has made
known his name and his great skill, boasting not only of his medical science, but likewise
of Chiromancy, Necromancy, Physiognomy, Visions in Crystals, and more arts of the kind. And
he called himself Faustus, a celebrated experienced master, philosophum philosophorum, etc.
But the number of those who have complained to me of having been cheated by him is very great.
Well, his promises were likewise very great, just like those of Thessalus, (in Galen's time,)
and his reputation like that of Theophrastus; but in deeds he was, I hear, found small and
deceitful. But in taking and receiving money he was never slow, and was off before any one
knew it."

Thus we see the historical Faustus, the esteemed scholar, the skilful physician, gradually
merged in the juggler, the quack, the adventurer, and the impostor. The popular legend follows
him to foreign countries. His magic mantle carries him, in eight days, over the whole world,
and even into the Infernal regions. He is honorably received at the Emperor's court at Innspruck,
introduces himself invisibly at Rome, into the Vatican, where the Pope and his cardinals are
assembled at a banquet, snatches away his Holiness's plate and cup from before his mouth, and,
enraged at his crossing himself, boxes his ears. In the puppet-shows he figures mostly at the
court of the Duke of Parma. In Venice his daring spirit presumed too far. He announced an exhibition
of a flight to heaven. But Mephistopheles, who had hitherto satisfied his most extravagant
demands, though often with grumbling, would not permit that feat. In the midst of a staring,
wondering multitude, Faustus rose to a certain height by means of his own Satanic skill, acquired
in his long intercourse with the Devil. But now the latter showed that he was still his master.
He suddenly hurled him from on high, and he fell half dead upon the ground. The twenty-four
years of the compact, however, were not yet ended, and he was therefore restored to life by
the same hellish power.

In a very trite, popular ballad, which we find in "Des Knaben Wunderhorn," we see, that, when
the travellers came to Jerusalem, the Devil declined still another request. Faustus wishes
him to make a picture of Christ crucified, and to write under it his holy name. But the Devil
declared that he would rather give him back his signature than be obliged to do such a thing,
and succeeded in turning the Doctor's mind from the subject by showing him, instead, a picture
of Venus.

Popular imagination seems to have been inexhaustible in stories of this kind. But, after the
twenty-four years of vile enjoyments, the hour of retribution came at last. According to our
scanty historical notices, Faustus died an unnatural death: he was found dead in his bed, at
his birthplace, Kundlingen, with his neck twisted. How such a death must have confirmed all
the superstitious rumors about him the reader will easily conceive. But, according to the popular
legend, his end was still more terrible. He seems to have returned to his own country, and
scholars, worthy young men, surround him once more, and become much attached to him. From this
one would suppose him to have been at Wittenberg, or Ingoldstadt, or any university city, but,
instead of this, we find him in a little Saxon village, called Rimlich. The twenty-fourth year
draws to its close. At last, at the eleventh hour, Faustus bethinks himself to repent; but
it is too late. His end, related in the simple language of the Volksbuch, is truly awful. He
dismisses his sympathizing friends, bidding them not to be disturbed by any noises in the night.
At midnight a terrible storm arises; it reaches its height amid thunder and lightning. The
friends hear a fearful shriek. They rise and pray. But when, in the morning, they enter his
room, they are horror-struck at seeing his limbs scattered round, and the walls, against which
the fiend had dashed him to pieces, covered with his blood. His body was found in the court-yard
on a dung-hill.

The horror of this end made a peculiarly awful impression on the popular mind. During the Thirty
Years' War, it once happened that a troop of Catholic soldiers broke into a village in Saxony,
on the Elbe, named Breda. They were just about to plunder one of the principal houses, when
the judge of the place, who, it seems, was a shrewd man, stepped out and told them that this
village was the one where Dr. Faustus was carried off by the Devil, and that in this very house
the blood of the Doctor was still to be seen on the walls. The soldiers were seized with terror,
and left the village.

The story of Faustus's adventurous life and shocking death, with its impressive lessons, appears
at first to have been kept extant only by oral tradition. Nearly forty years passed before
it was written down and printed. But then, indeed, the book was received with so much favor,
that not only several new and enlarged editions appeared in a short time, but many similar
works were published soon after, which, though founded on the oldest Volksbuch (of 1588) and
Widmann's "Histories," were yet abundant in new facts and inventions. And that not to the illiterate
classes alone was the subject interesting is proved by the circumstance that a Latin version
of the first Volksbuch was advertised, and (probably) appeared. On the title-pages of all these
books it is expressly stated that they were written as a warning to, and for the edification
of, Christian readers. In 1712, a book was published at Berlin, under the title, "Zauberkünste
und Leben Dr. Fausti," (The Magic Arts and Life of Dr. Faust,) as the author of which Christoph
Wagner was named. Wagner himself became the subject of a biographical work.

Of still greater effect was Faustus's history on the stage. Through the whole of the seventeenth,
as well as the first half of the eighteenth century, it remained one of the favorite subjects
of puppet-shows, popular melodramas, exhibitions of ombres chinoises, and pantomimes. The more
the awful event, with its moral lessons, receded into the background of time, the more it lost
its serious and impressive character, until it became a mere burlesque, and Hanswurst and Casperle
its principal figures.

The "Historie" had scarcely appeared, when it was translated into Dutch, and the later publication
of other similar works did not prevent the demand for several new editions. These Dutch books
were illustrated, as were also the newer German ones. Only a little later, two French versions
were published, one of which was even reprinted at Paris as late as 1712.

In Holland, our hero excited no small interest even among the artists. There are extant several
portraits of Faustus painted by Rembrandt,-- whether ideal, or copied from older pictures,
is not known. Another Dutch painter, Christoph von Sichem, represented two scenes from the
life of the celebrated magician; and of these productions engravings still exist. On the one,
we see Faustus and Mephistopheles,--the latter dressed like a monk, as, according to the popular
tales, he mostly appeared. On the other, Wagner and Auerhahn, (or Auerhain,) --the latter in
the shape of a monkey. There is a striking contrast between Faustus and Wagner. The first is
a well-dressed man, in deep meditation; globes and instruments of science surround him;-- the
other the impersonation of vulgarity. Various scenes from Faustus's life adorn the walls. Christoph
von Sichem was born in 1580, and flourished at Amsterdam during the first quarter of the seventeenth
century. These pictures were consequently made when the whole interest of the public for Faustus
and his companions was still fresh.

Some books seem to have been published by Faustus during his lifetime,--at least, his biographers
allude to them; but it was only after his death that the work which gave his name its chief
reputation became known. This was his peculiar System of Magic, called "Faust's Hoellenzwang"
(Compulsion of Hell). Wagner, who was said to be his heir, published it first under the title
of "Dr. Johannis Faust's Magia Celeberrima, und Tabula Nigra, oder Hoellenzwang." It contained
all the different forms of conjuration, as well for the citation as for the dismissal of spirits.
There are, besides this, several other similar works extant, such as his "Schwarzer Mohrenstern,"
"Der schwarze Rabe," the "Mirakel-, Kunst-, und Wunder-buch," already mentioned, and several
more, containing about the same matter, and most of them written in his name. Of all these
productions only manuscripts are known to remain, although they are all professedly copies
of printed works. The most singular thing is, that, while they are represented as having been
published after the magician's death, some of them are, nevertheless, marked with dates as
early as 1509, 1510, and 1511,--and with the names of Lion, (Lyons,) London, etc., as the places
where they were printed. These circumstances make their authenticity very doubtful, even if
we allow for mistakes made by the copyists.

Although so large a part of Faustus's life was, according to the popular legend, spent in Italy,
we are not aware that this legend was ever current among the Italian people. Some unfortunate
attempts have been made to engraft the story of Don Giovanni upon this German stock, but, as
it seems to us, by very arbitrary arguments and conclusions. The career of a mere rake, who
shuns no means of gratifying his low appetites, has little analogy with that of an originally
honest inquirer, led astray by the want of faith and his sensual nature. The only resemblance
is in the end. There was at first more apparent success in the endeavor to transplant the tale
to Spain, where Calderon's "Magico Prodigioso" was taken by some critics for a representation
of it. The foundation of Calderon's drama, as mentioned before, is rather the legend of St.
Cyprianus. More may be said in favor of the radical identity of the stories of Faustus with
some popular legends of the Poles, referring to a necromancer called Twardowski. But Polish
scholars will not admit this; at least, they object to giving up their great magician, and
some attempts have even been made from that side to prove that theirs is the original whom
the Germans appropriated under the name of Faust.

The most interesting result of the publication of the Volksbuch appeared in England, where
it fell, for the first, and in a hundred and fifty years the only time, into the hands of a
poet. Mr. Collier, in his "History of English Dramatic Poetry," says,--"In 1588, a ballad of
the Life and Death of Dr. Faustus was licensed to be printed"; and adds,--"This would, according
to the language of the time, have meant any composition in verse, even the play," (of Marlowe,)
and subsequently mentions the same circumstance with reference to "the old romance of Dr. Faustus."
On this, Mr. A. Dyce (Works of Christopher Marlowe, 1850, I. p. xvi., note) remarks,--"When
Mr. Collier states that the old romance of Faustus was entered into the Stationers' books in
1588, (according to a note on Henslowe's Diary, p. 42,) he meant, I apprehend, the old ballad."
If we bear in mind that the first German History of Dr. Faustus did not appear before the same
year, we should also conclude that he must have meant the ballad, as a translation could hardly
have been made in so short a time. But considering, on the other hand, that the tragedy, which
cannot have been composed later than 1589 or 1590, (as the poet, who was murdered in 1593,
wrote several pieces after the one in question,) is evidently and without the least doubt founded
on the Volksbuch, often adopting the very language of its English version, we must conclude
that a translation of the German work was made immediately after its appearance, or possibly
even from the manuscript,--which Spiess, the German editor, professes to have obtained from
Spires. Although the word "ballad" was not properly employed for prose romances, it may have
been thus used in Henslowe's Diary by mistake. We are not aware that any old English version
of this "History of Dr. Faustus" is now extant; that from which Mr. Dyce quotes is of 1648.
Marlowe's tragedy was first entered in the Stationers' books in 1600-1, but brought upon the
stage many years before. In 1597, it had already been played so often that additions were required.
Philips, who wrote about fifty years later, remarks, that, "of all that Marlowe hath written
to the stage, his 'Dr. Faustus' has made the greatest noise with its devils and such-like tragical
sport." In course of time it was "made into a farce, with the Humors of Harlequin and Scaramouch,"
and represented through the whole kingdom, like similar compositions, with immense applause.

Marlowe's "Faustus" has been judged rather favorably by modern English critics. Mr. Hazlitt
calls it, "though an imperfect and unequal performance, Marlowe's greatest work." Mr. Hallam
remarks,--"There is an awful melancholy about Marlowe's Mephistopheles, perhaps more impressive
than the malignant mirth of that fiend in the renowned work of Goethe." Charles Lamb even preferred
Marlowe's "Faustus," as a whole, to the latter! Mr. Collier calls it "a drama of power, novelty,
interest, and variety." So, indeed, it is; but all that power, interest, novelty, and variety
do not belong to Marlowe, but to the prose romance, after which he wrote. Indeed, he followed
it so closely,--as every reader can see for himself, by reading the play in Dyce's edition,
and comparing it with the notes under the text,--that sometimes whole scenes are copied, and
even whole speeches, as, for instance, that of the Emperor Charles V. The coarse buffoonery,
in particular, of which the work is full, is retained word for word. Of the countless absurdities
and prolixities of the Volksbuch, Marlowe has, of course, omitted a great deal, and condensed
the story to the tenth part of its original length; but the fundamental idea, the plot, and
the characters, belong exclusively to the original. Marlowe's poetical merit lies partly in
the circumstance that he was the first to feel the depth and power of that idea, partly in
the thoughts and pictures with which some speeches, principally the monologues of Faustus himself,
are interwoven. The Faustus of Marlowe is the Faust of the legend, tired of learning because
it is so unproductive, and selling his soul, not for knowledge, but for wealth and power. His
investigating conversations with Mephistopheles, his inquiries, and the answers of the latter,
are almost as shallow and childish as those in the People's Book; and Faustus himself remarks,
on the information which his companion gives him,--

  "Those slender trifles Wagner could decide;
  Has Mephistopheles no greater skill?"

This latter, indeed, seems to us, in spite of the admiration of English critics, a decided
failure. There is in him no trace of either the cruel, icy-cold malignity of the fiend of Goethe,
or the awful grandeur of Milton's Tempter. It cannot be said that Marlowe's Devil seduces Faustus.
He is almost on the verge of repentance himself; of the two, he is decidedly the better Christian.
The proposition of the compact comes from Faustus himself, and Mephistopheles only accepts
it. Marlowe's Faustus knows nothing of the feeling of aversion and disgust with which Goethe's
Faust sees himself bound to his hellish companion; he calls him, repeatedly, "sweet Mephistopheles,"
and declares,--

  "Had I as many souls as there be stars,
  I'd give them all for Mephistopheles."

Mr. Hallam, in comparing Marlowe's production with Goethe's, remarks,--"The fair form of Margaret
is wanting." As if this were all that was wanting! Margaret belonged, indeed, exclusively to
Goethe. But Helena, the favorite ideal of beauty of all old writers, is introduced in the popular
tale, and so, too, in Marlowe. Faustus conjures up her spirit at the request of the students.
Her beauty is described with glowing colors; "it would," says the old romance, "nearly have
enflamed the students, but that they persuaded themselves she was a spirit, which made them
lightly passe away such fancies." Not so Faustus; although he is already in the twenty-third
year of his compact, he himself falls in love with the spirit, and keeps her with him until
his end. In all this, Marlowe follows closely; though he has good taste enough to suppress
the figure of the little Justus Faustus, who was the fruit of this union.

It now only remains to us to consider the way in which modern poets have apprehended the idea
of the Faust-fable. None of the German dramas and operas which the seventeenth century produced,
though they never failed to draw large audiences, could be compared, in poetical value, to
Marlowe's tragedy. The German stage of that period was of very low standing, and the few poets
who wrote for it, as, for instance, Lohenstein, preferred foreign subjects,--the more remote
in space and time, the better. The writers of neither the first nor the second Silesian school
were exactly the men to appreciate the depth of a legend like that of Faustus,--still less
the watery poets of the beginning of the eighteenth century. Lessing, who, with his sharp,
sound criticism, and his clear perception of the beautiful, led the way to a higher state of
things in literature, appears also to have been the first to discover the deep meaning buried
in the popular farces of Faustus. He pronounced it worthy the genius of a Shakspeare, and himself
attempted to make it the subject of a tragedy. How much it occupied his mind we may conclude
from the circumstance that he seems to have made for it two plans, essentially different from
each other. We can only regret that they were never executed. Although Lessing was not a poetical
genius like Goethe, the power and acuteness of his mind were so eminent, the force of his critical
faculties was so penetrating, that his treatment of a subject of so much depth and intrinsic
poetry would have been of the highest interest. This expectation is also justified by the few
sketches of single scenes which are all that remain of his plans. One of the latter is, indeed,
also in so far remarkable, as we see from it that Lessing's mind inclined to the modern view,
according to which Faustus ought to be and would be finally saved. One of the devils describes
him, before temptation, as "a solitary, thinking youth, entirely devoted to wisdom,--living,
breathing, only for wisdom and knowledge,--renouncing every passion but the one for truth,--highly
dangerous to thee [Satan] and to us all, if he were ever to be a teacher of the people." Satan
resolves at once to seduce and destroy him. But Faustus's good angel has mercy on him. He buries
him in a deep sleep, and creates in his place a phantom, with which the cheated devils try
successfully the whole process of temptation and seduction. All this appears to Faustus in
a dream. He awakes; the Devil discovers his error, and flies with shame and fury, and Faustus,
thanking Providence for its warning, clings to truth and virtue more firmly than ever.

The other plan, to judge from the fragment we possess, is less fanciful, and seems to follow
more closely the popular tradition, according to which the temptations of Faustus were by no
means external, but lay deep in his individual mind. In one of its lightly-sketched scenes,
the poet has evidently availed himself of the one from the Miracle-Book heretofore mentioned,
and, indeed, with a great deal of force. Faustus, impatient and annoyed at the slow process
of human action, desires the quickest servant from hell, and successively cites seven spirits.
One after another he rejects. The arrows of the plague, the wings of the winds, the beams of
light, are all not quick enough for him. The fifth spirit rises:--

"Faustus. How quick art thou?

"Fifth Spirit. As quick as the thoughts of men.

"Faustus. That is something!--But the thoughts of men are not always quick. They are slothful
when truth and virtue demand them. Thou canst be quick, if thou wilt. But who will warrant
me thy being always quick?--No, I trust thee as little as I ought to have trusted myself.--Ah!--(to
the sixth spirit.) Now tell me how quick thou art!

"Sixth Spirit. As quick as the vengeance of the Avenger.

"Faustus. Of the Avenger? Of what Avenger?

"Sixth Spirit. Of the All-powerful, the Terrible, who has kept vengeance for himself alone,
because vengeance is his delight.

"Faustus. Devil, thou blasphemest, for I see thou art trembling!--Quick, thou sayest, as the
vengeance of----no! he may not be named among us! Quick, thou sayest, is his vengeance? Quick?
And I still live? And I still sin?

"Sixth Spirit. That he suffereth thee still to sin is the beginning of his vengeance.

"Faustus. Oh that a Devil should teach me this!--But no, his vengeance is not quick; if thou
art no quicker, begone!--(To the seventh spirit.) How quick art thou?

"Seventh Spirit. Unsatisfiable (unzuvergnuegender) mortal! If I, too, am not quick enough for
thee------

"Faustus. Tell me, then, how quick?

"Seventh Spirit. No more nor less than the transition from Good to Evil.

"Faustus. Ha! thou art my devil! Quick as the transition from Good to Evil!--Yes, that is quick!
Nothing is quicker!--Away from here, ye horrors of Orcus! Away!--Quick as the transition from
Good to Evil!--I have learned how quick that is! I know it!"

Lessing had this fragment printed in the "Literaturbriefe," professedly as a specimen of one
of the old popular dramas, despised at that time by the higher classes, though Lessing remarks,--"How
fond was Germany once of its Dr. Faustus,--and is so, partly, still!" But even this bold reformer
of German taste seems not to have had the temerity to come forward at once as the author of
a conception so entirely contrary to the reigning rules and the Frenchified taste by which,
at the period of the "Literaturbriefe," (1759-1763,) Germany was still subjugated.

We do not know whether some of the young poets who took hold of the subject a short time after
were instigated by this fragment of Lessing's, or whether they were moved by the awakening
German Genius, who, just at that period, was beginning to return to his national sources for
the quenching of his thirst. Between 1770 and 1780, Lenz and Maler Müller composed, the former
his "Hoellenrichter," the latter his dramatized Life of Dr. Faustus. No more appropriate hero
could have been found for the young "Kraft-Genies" of the "Sturm und Drang Periode" (Storm
and Stress period) of German literature. Schreiber, Soden, Klinger, Schink, followed them,
the last-named with several productions referring to the subject. In 1786, Goethe communicated
to the world, for the first time, a fragment of that astonishing dramatic poem which has since
been acknowledged, by the whole literary public, as his masterpiece, and the most remarkable
monument of his great genius.[6] The whole first part of the tragedy, still under the name
of a fragment, was not published before 1808. Since then Germany may be said to have been inundated
by "Fausts" in every possible shape. Dramas by Nic. Voigt, K. Schoene, Benkowitz,--operas by
Adolph Bäurle, J. von Voss, Bernard, (with music by Spohr,)--tales in verse and prose by Kamarack,
Seybold, Gerle, and L. Bechstein,--and besides these, the productions of various anonymous
writers, followed close upon each other in the course of the next twenty years. Chamisso's
tragedy of "Faustus," "in one actus," in truth only a fragment, had already appeared in the
"Musenalmanach" of 1804.

To Goethe the legendary literature of his nation had been familiar from his boyhood. Very early
in life, and several years before the publication of Maler Müller's spirited drama, his mind
was powerfully impressed by the Faust-fable, and the greater part of the present fragmentary
poem was already written and ready for print when Müller's first sketch, under the title, "Situations
in the Life of Dr. Faustus," appeared (1776). As the entire poetry of Goethe was more or less
autobiographical,--that is, as all his poetical productions reflect, to a certain extent, his
own personal sensations, trials, and experiences,--he fused himself and his inner life into
the mould of Faustus, with all his craving for knowledge, his passionate love of Nature, his
unsatisfied longings and powerful temptations, adhering closely in all external action to the
popular story, though of course in a symbolic spirit Goethe had, as he tells us himself, a
happy faculty of delivering himself by poetical production, as well of all the partly imaginary,
partly morbid cares and doubts which troubled his mind, as of the real and acute sufferings
which tormented him, for a certain period, even to agony. Love, doubt, sorrow, passion, remorse--all
found an egress from his soul into a poem, a novel, a parable, a dramatic character, or some
other form of poetical expression. He felt as if eased of a burden, after having thus given
his feelings body and shape. Thus his works became his history. "Faust," in its two parts,
is the production of his lifetime. Conceived in early youth, worked out in manhood, completed
in old age, it became a vehicle for all the various commotions of his existence. There is no
other poem which contains such a diversity of thought and feeling, such a variety of sentences,
pictures, scenes, and situations. For enlarging on the poetical value of this incomparable
work this is not the place. Closely as Goethe has followed up the popular legend, it is emphatically
and entirely his own production, because it contains his complete self.

Nearly a quarter of a century passed before this extraordinary poem was followed by its second
part. It is not difficult to trace in this continuation, published only after the death of
the aged poet, the few scenes which may have been composed contemporarily with or soon after
the first part; but that the whole is conceived and executed in a totally different spirit
not even the most unconditional admirers of Goethe's genius will deny. There is no doubt that
he regarded his "Faust" only as a beginning, and always contemplated a continuation. The rôle
of Dr. Faustus, the popular magician, was only half-played. Its most brilliant part, his intercourse
with the great of the earth and the heroes of the past, had not yet commenced. But as, in the
course of advancing life, the poet's views and ideas changed, the mirror of his soul reflected
an altered world to him; and as the second part of "Faust" is hardly less an image of himself
than the first, it is not unnatural that it is as different from the latter as the Goethe the
septuagenarian was from Goethe the youth.

Meanwhile the literati of Germany became exceedingly impatient for the promised second part;
and when the master lingered, and did not himself come forth with the solution of the mystery,
the disciples attempted to supply him as well as they could. C.C.L. Schoene and J.D. Hoffmann
had both the requisite courage for such an undertaking; and the first even sent his production,
with perfect naïveté, to the great master, as the second part of his own work. C. Rosenkranz
and Gustav Pfitzer--two very honorable names--also wrote after-plays.

We must confess that we have never felt any desire to see "Faust" continued. It ought to have
remained a fragment. Its last scene, perhaps, surpasses, in sublimity and heart-rending power,
anything ever written. No work of Art of a more chilling, disenchanting character was ever
produced. For the striking individuality of the first part, we have here nothing but abstractions;
for its deep poetry, symbolism; for its glow and thrilling pathos, a plastic finish, hard and
cold as marble; for its psychological truth, a bewildering mysticism.

The impression which the first part of "Faust," the poetical masterpiece of German literature,
made among foreigners, was, though in some instances ultimately powerful, yet on the whole
surprisingly slow. While the popular legend, in its coarsest shape, had, in its time, spread
with the rapidity of a running fire through all countries, the great German poet's conception
of it, two hundred years later, found no responding echo in either French or English bosoms.
Here and there some eccentric genius may have taken it up, as, for instance, Monk Lewis, who,
in 1816, communicated the fundamental idea to Lord Byron, reading and translating it to him
vivâ vocé, and suggesting to him, in this indirect way, the idea of his "Manfred." But even
the more profound among the few German scholars then extant in England did not understand "Faust,"
and were inclined to condemn it,--as, for instance, Coleridge, who, as we see from his "Table-Talk,"
misconceived the whole idea of the poem, and found fault with the execution, because it was
different from what he fancied he himself would have made of this legend, had he taken it in
hand. The first English translation was published in the same year as the first French version,
that is, in 1825; both were exceedingly imperfect. Since then several other translations in
prose and verse have appeared in both languages, especially in English,--though the "twenty
or thirty metrical ones" of which Mr. C.T. Brooks speaks in his preface are probably to be
taken as a mere mode of speech,--and lately one by this gentleman himself, in our very midst.
This latter comes, perhaps, as near to perfection as it is possible for the reproduction of
all idiomatic poetical composition in another language to do. All this indicates that the time
for the just appreciation of German literature in general and of Goethe in particular is drawing
near at last; that its influence has for some time been felt is proved, among other things,
by that paraphrastic imitation of "Faust," Bailey's "Festus."

That a poem like "Faust" could not at first be generally understood is not unnatural. Various
interpretations of its seeming riddles have been attempted; and if the volumes of German "Goethe-Literature"
are numerous enough to form a small library, those of the "Faust- Literature" may be computed
to form the fourth part of it. To the English reader we cannot recommend highly enough, for
the full comprehension of "Faust," the commentary on this poem which Mr. Lewes gives in his
"Life of Goethe," as perhaps the most excellent portion of that excellent work. Goethe himself
has given many a hint on his own conception, and as to how far it was the reflex of his own
soul. This, however, would by far exceed our limits.

[Footnote 1: Some regard Sabellicus and Faustus Socinus as one and the same person.]

[Footnote 2: Historie von D. Johann Fausten, aan weltbeschreyten Zauberer und Schwarzkünstler,
etc. Frankfurt a. M. 1588.]

[Footnote 3: Wahrhaftige Historien von den greulichen und abscheulichen Sünden und Lastern,
etc., so D. Johannes Faustus, etc., bis an sein schreckliches End hat getrieben, etc., erklärt
durch Georg Rudolf Widmann. 1525.]

[Footnote 5: Dr. Faustus on this day From Auerbach's cellar rode away, Of a barrel of wine
astride, Which many mothers'-children eyed; This through his subtle art achieved, And for it
the Devil's reward received. 1525.]

[Footnote 6: It first appeared in the fourth volume of his Works. Leipzig. Goeschen. 1786.]

[Footnote 7: Mr. Brooks's translation.]

[Footnote 8: Kunst und Alterthum. B. VI. Heft I., II.]

MISS WIMPLE'S HOOP.

"Believe in God and yourself, and do the best you can."

In Hendrik on the Hudson, fifty miles from New York, there was, winter before last, a certain
"patent seamless."--

But a hooped skirt with a history, touching and teaching, is no theme for flippancy; so, by
your leave, I will unwind my story tenderly, and with reverential regard for its smooth turns
of sequence.

The Wimples, of whom Sally is the last, were among the oldest and most respectable of Hendrik
families. Sally's father, Mr. Paul Wimple, had been a publisher in good standing, and formerly
did a flourishing business in New York; but seven years ago he failed, and so, quite penniless,
his health sadly broken, his cheerfulness and energy all gone with his fortunes, without heart
for any new beginning, he returned to Hendrik, his native place.

There, the friends of his youth, steadfast and generous, pitying his sad plight, and having
perfect faith in his unimpeached integrity, purchased--principally at the sale in bankruptcy
of his own effects--a modest stock of new and second-hand books and magazines, together with
some stationery and a few fancy articles in that line, and reestablished him in the humble
but peaceful calling of a country bookseller. They called his shop "The Hendrik Athenaeum and
Circulating Library," and all the county subscribed; for, at first, the Wimples were the fashionable
charity, "the Wimples were always so very respectable, you know," and Sally was such a sweet
girl that really it was quite an interesting case. Mrs. Splurge forthwith began improving the
minds of her girls to the extent of three full annual subscriptions for Josephine, Adelaide,
and Madeline respectively; and that triplet of fair students, who, separately or conjointly,
were at all times competent to the establishment of a precedent for the graceful charities
of Hendrik good society, handsomely led off with a ten-dollar investment in "fountain" pens,
"cream-laid assembly note," motto-wafers, Blessington envelopes "with crest and initial," ivory
tablets, pencil-sharpeners, and ink-erasers.

But all their munificence came to nought. Mr. Paul Wimple's heart was broken,--as they say
of any weary Sysiphus who lies down by his stone and sleeps forever;--so he died.

Poor little Sally! The first thing she did was to disappoint her friends, and shock the decencies
of Hendrik; for it had been agreed on all sides that "the poor dear thing would take on dreadfully,
or else fret herself into fits, or perhaps fall into one of them clay-cold, corpsy swoons,
like old Miss Dunks has regular every 'revival.'" But when they came, with all their tedious
commonplaces of a stupid condolence not wholly innocent of curiosity, Sally thanked them with
dry eyes and prudent lips and quiet nerves, and only said she thought she should do very well
after she had set the house to rights and slept awhile. The sewing-circle of that week was
a coroner's inquest on Sally's character, and "ungrateful," "cold-blooded," "indecent," "worse
than a hypocrite," were not the hardest epithets in the verdict of the jury.

But Sally set the place to rights, and bade her father's old friends to the funeral, and buried
him with all the money that was in the house, neither asking nor accepting aid from any; and
with the poor pittance that her severe conscience could afford her sorrow she procured some
cheap material of the doleful sort and went into the most unbecoming of "full mourning." When
she made her appearance in church,--which she did, as usual, the very first Sunday after the
funeral,--that plainest of bonnets and straitest of black delaines, unadorned save by the old-fashioned
and dingy lace-cape, descended through many shifts of saving from her long-ago-dead-and-gone
mother, were so manifestly a condescending concession to the conventionalities or superstitions
of Hendrik, and said so plainly, "This is for your 'decencies,'--it is all that I can honestly
spare, and more than you should demand,--my life is mourning enough,"--that all the congregation
bristled at the affront. Henceforth Miss Wimple--no longer dear Sally, or even Miss Sally,
but sharp "Miss Wimple"--had that pew to herself.

Now I believe it was not generally known in Hendrik that Miss Wimple had narrowly escaped being
a very pretty girl. She was but just in her nineteenth year when her father died. Her features
were regular, her expression lovely, her complexion, before trouble nipped the roses of her
cheeks, full of the country's freshness. She had tender eyes, profoundly overshadowed by long,
pensive lashes; in the sweet lines of her very delicate mouth a trace of quiet pride was prettily
blended with thoughtfulness, and a just-forming smile that was always melancholy. Her feet
were little, and her hands were soft and white; nor had toil and sorrow, and the weariness,
and indifference to self, that come of them, as yet impaired the symmetry of her well-turned
shape, or the elasticity of her free and graceful carriage. Her deportment was frank and self-reliant,
and her manners, though reserved, far from awkward; her complete presence, indeed, compelled
consideration and invited confidence.

In her father's lifetime, she had sought, on occasions of unwonted cheerfulness, to please
him with certain charming tricks of attire; and sometimes, with only a white rose-bud gleaming
through the braided shadows of her hair, lighted herself up as with a star; then, not a carping
churl, not an envious coquette in Hendrik, but confessed to the prettiness of Sally Wimple.

But now there was no longer a grateful life for her white rose-star to brighten; so she sat
down, in her loneliness and sombre unbecomingness, between her forlorn counters with their
pitiful shows of stock, and let her good looks go by, entertaining only brave thoughts of duty,--till
she grew pale "and fell into the portion of weeds and outworn faces," so that "how anybody
could see the least beauty in that distressing Miss Wimple" began to be with many a sincere
and almost reasonable expression of surprise, instead of a malicious sin against knowledge.
She waited for customers, but they seldom came,--often, from opening to window-barring, not
one; for the unwilting little martyr of the Hendrik Athenaeum and Circulating Library had made
herself a highly disapproved-of Miss Wimple by her ungrateful and contumacious behavior at
her father's death, even if the hard and sharp black lines of that scrimped delaine had not
sufficed to turn the current of admiration, interest, and custom. Besides, the attractions
of her slender stock were all exhausted. She had not the means of refreshing it with pretty
novelties and sentimental toys in that line,--with albums and valentines, fancy portfolios
and pocket-secretaries, pearl paper-knives and tortoise-shell cardcases, Chinese puzzles and
papier-maché checker-boards. Nor was the Library replenished "to keep up with the current literature
of the day"; its last new novel was a superannuated dilapidation; not one of its yearly subscribers
but had worked through the catalogue once and a half.

Since the funeral, and especially since the inauguration of the delaine, Mrs. Marmaduke Splurge
had been less alive to the necessity of improving the minds of her girls; and that virginal
ten-dollar investment had provided Josephine, Adelaide, and Madeline with supplies of small
arms and ammunition enough for a protracted campaign of epistolary belligerence, interrupted
by hair-strokes of coquettish diplomacy.

In the flaunting yellow house on the hill the widow and daughters of the late Marmaduke Splurge,
Esq., railroad-director and real-estate broker, fondled and hated each other. Mrs. Marmaduke
was a well-preserved woman, stylish, worldly-minded, and weak. Miss Josephine, her eldest,
was handsome, patronizing, passée, and a sentimental fool; Miss Adelaide, who came next, was
handsome, eccentric, malicious, and sly; and Miss Madeline, the youngest, was handsome, distinguished-looking,
intellectual, passionate, and proud.

Mrs. Marmaduke's heart was set on marrying her daughters "advantageously," and she gave all
of her narrow mind to that thankless department. Josephine insisted on a romantic attachment,
and pursued a visionary spouse with all the ardor and obstinacy of first-rate stupidity. Adelaide
had the weakness to hate Josephine, the shrewdness to fear Madeline, and the viciousness to
despise her mother; she skilfully and diligently devoted herself to the thwarting of the family.
Madeline waited, only waited,--with a fierceness so dangerously still that it looked like patience,--hated
her insulting bondage, but waited, like Samson between the pillars upon which the house of
Dagon stood, resolved to free herself, though she dragged down the edifice and were crushed
among the wreck.

Mrs. Marmaduke talked tediously of the trials and responsibilities of conscientious mothers
who have grown-up daughters to provide for, was given to frequent freshets of tears, consumed
many "nervous pills" of the retired-clergyman-whose-sands-of-life-have-nearly-run-out sort,
and netted bead purses for the Select Home for Poor Gentlemen's Daughters. Josephine let down
her back hair dowdily, partook recklessly of poetry and pickles, read inordinately in bed,--leaning
all night on her elbow,--and was threatened with spinal curvature and spiritualism. Adelaide
set invisible little traps in every nook and cranny, every cupboard and drawer, from basement
to attic, and with a cheerful, innocent smile sat watching them night and day. Madeline, fiercely
calm, warned off the others, with pale lips and flashing eyes and bitter tongue, resenting
en famille the devilish endearments she so sweetly suffered in company; but ever as she groped
about in her soul's blindness she felt for the central props of that house of Dagon.

All the good society of Hendrik said the Splurges were a charming family, a most attached and
happy family, lovely in their lives and in death not to be divided, and that they looked sweetly
in hoops. And yet the Splurges had but few visitors; the young women of the neighborhood, when
they called there, left always an essential part of their true selves behind them as they entered,
and an ornamental part of their reputations when they took their departure; nor were the young
men partial to the name,--for Josephine bored them, and Adelaide taunted them, and Madeline
snubbed them, and Mrs. Marmaduke pumped them, and the combined family confounded them. Only
Mr. Philip Withers was the intimate and encouraged habitué of the house.

Mr. Philip Withers was the very man for the looser principles of Hendrik,--a fine gentleman's
fine son, and his only one, who, by the death of his father, had come, whilst he was yet very
young, into a pretty property in the neighborhood,--a sort of idyllic man of the world, with
considerable cleverness, a neat miscellaneous education, handsome person, effective clothes,
plausible address, mischievous brilliancy of versatile talk, a deep voice, two or three accomplishments
best adapted to the atmosphere of sentimental women, graceful self-possession, small feet,
nice hands, striking attitudes, a subduing smile, magnetic whisper, Machiavellian tact, and
French morals. He could sing you into tears, and dance you into love, and talk you into wonder;
when he drew, you begged for his portrait by himself, and when he wrote, you solicited his
autograph.

Mr. Philip Withers had taken his moustache to foreign parts, and done the Continent sophisticatedly.
He was well-read in cities, and had brought home a budget of light, popular, and profusely
illustrated articles of talk on an equivocal variety of urban life, which he prettily distributed
among clovery pastorals, Wordsworthian ballads, De Coverly entertainments, Crayon sketches,
and Sparrowgrass Papers, for the benefit of his country subscribers. From all of which you
have no doubt gathered by this time that Mr. Philip Withers was a graceful scamp, and a friend
of the Splurges,--who had money, which Mr. Philip Withers had not; for he had been a munificent
patron of elegant pleasures abroad, and since his return had erected an addition to his father's
house in the shape of a pair of handsome mortgages, as a proprietor of romantic tastes in architecture
might flank his front door with mediaeval donjons.

Mrs. Marmaduke made much of that good-looking and delightful Withers. Though not a pious man,
in the formal sense of the term, she felt sure he was religious according to that stained-glass
and fragrant religion of the tastes which is an essential attribute of every gentleman,--that
is, of every well-born man of cultivated preferences and sensitive antipathies,--and she had
no doubt that gentlemen's souls could be saved by that arrangement just as satisfactorily,
and so much more gracefully. She only wished, my dear, you could hear Mr. Withers express himself
on those subjects,--his ideas were so delightfully "your deal, my love"--clear, his illustrations
so sweetly pretty, and his manner so earnest; really, he stirred her like--"hearts, did you
say?--a trump."

Josephine Splurge contented herself with letting down her back hair for Mr. Withers and making
eyes at him.

"Good-morrow to the guileless Genevieve!"--Withers delighted in dispensing equivocal nothings
to the dowdy Muse of the sofa and back hair.--"Charming weather!"

"There, you bewildering Joseph Surface, you need not go on,--I know what you are going to say,
and I will neither be flattered nor fascinated. Come, confess now, like a dear candid creature,
throw off your irresistibly bewitching mask, and own that your sentiments are all rhetoric."

"Josy, dear," Adelaide would insinuate, "what a wonderful memory you have!--so well managed,
too! Now whom did you hear say that?"

Josephine was wont to declare that the Admirable Crichton lived again in that kaleidoscopic
creature; but he was so dazzling, so bewildering, so dangerous, that to converse with him was
like having fireworks in one's boudoir.

With Madeline Withers was on strange terms, if any terms at all. She threatened to him in the
middle of his best stories, smiled quietly when he preached, yawned to his poetical recitations,
left the room when he sang, mistook the subjects of his sketches with a verisimilitude of innocence
that often deceived even himself, was silent and sneered much whenever he was present. And
all these rudenesses she performed with a successful air of genuine abstraction; they never
failed of their intention by being overdone, or by being too directly directed at him.

Remarks seldom passed between these two; when they did, Withers spoke always first, and Madeline
replied briefly and with politeness. And yet there were occasions when a sharp-sighted and
suspicious observer might have detected a strange discomposure in Madeline's conduct in the
presence of Withers,--when, indeed, she seemed to be laboring under irritability, and proneness
to singular excitement, which began with his entrance and disappeared with his departure. At
such times she would break her haughty quiet with fierce sallies upon her sisters; but Withers
stung her back into silence with sharp and telling retorts,--as you may have seen a practised
beast-tamer in a cage flog an angry tigress, when her eyes flashed, and her ears were set back,
and she unsheathed her horrid claws, and lashed her sides, and growled with all the appalling
fee-faw-fum of the jungle,--flog her back into her corner, with nought more formidable than
a lady's riding-whip, dainty, slender, and sharp. But Withers administered the chastisement
with such devilish grace that it was unperceived, save by the quick, shrewd Adelaide perhaps,
who perceived everything,--but never saw, nor ever spoke. If you could have beheld the lips
and the eyes of Madeline, on such occasions, you would have cursed this Philip Withers, or
beaten him to her feet.

Between Withers and Adelaide the relations were plainer; indeed, before the small Splurge set
they appeared as avowed lovers. Toward "Addy" Withers was all elegant devotion and gracious
gallantry, knight-like in his chivalric and debonair devoir.

For Withers Addy was, openly, all deference and tenderly wistful solicitude, but in secret
not all security and exultation. Even while it seemed high triumph in her heart's camp, her
well-drilled eyes and ears were still on guard, and her hidden thoughts lay upon their arms.

Still it wore the aspect of a lyric match, and the hearts of humbler Hendrik lovers set it
to music.

"For other guests," Withers seemed to say,

  "I wile the hours with tale or song,
    Or web of fancy, fringed with careless rhyme;
  But how to find a fitting lay for thee,
    Who hast the harmonies of every time?"

And Addy looked,

  "Thou art to me most like a royal guest,
    Whose travels bring him to some humble roof,
  Where simple rustics spread their festal fare,
    And, blushing, own it is not good enough.

  "Bethink thee, then, whene'er thou com'st to me,
    From high emprise and noble toil to rest,
  My thoughts are weak and trivial, matched with thine,
    But the poor mansion offers thee its best."

So Mrs. Marmaduke exalted her horn and exceedingly magnified her manoeuvring office. On the
strength of it, she treated herself to profuse felicitations and fished among her neighbors
for more.

CHAPTER II.

And now I will let you into a secret, which, according to the received rules for story-construction,
should be barred against you yet a little longer. I will fling it wide open at once, instead
of holding it ajar and admitting you edgewise, as it were, one conjecture at a time.

Miss Wimple had a lover;--she had had him since six months before her father died, and the
decayed publisher had never guessed of him nor Sally confessed him; for the good, thoughtful
daughter knew it would but complicate the old man's perplexities and cares to no purpose. To
be sure, his joyful consent was certain; but so long as he lived, "the thing was not to be
thought of," she said, and it was not wise to plant in his mind a wish with which her duty
could not accord. So Sally's lover was hushed up,--hidden in discretion as in a closet.

Simon Blount was his name, and he was a young farmer of five hundred acres in first-rate cultivation,
with barns, stables, and offices in complete repair,--a well-stocked, well-watered place, with
"all the modern improvements," and convenient to the Hendrik branch of the New York and Bunker
Hill railroad.

The young man had inherited this very neat property from his father,--a thriving, intelligent
farmer of the best class, Mr. Wimple's oldest friend, his playmate in boyhood, and his crony
when he died. Simon's mother and Sally's had likewise been schoolmates, and intimates to the
last, fondly attached to each other, and mutually confiding in each other's love and truth
in times of pain and trouble.

But Mr. Blount and Mrs. Wimple had been dead these ten years;--they died in the same month.
Simon and Sally were children when that happened, and since then they had grown up together
in the closest family intimacy, interrupted only by Sally's winter schooling in New York, and
renewed every summer by her regular seasons at Hendrik.

To the young man and the ripening maiden, then, their love came as naturally as violets and
clover-blooms, and was as little likely to take their parents or the familiar country-folk
by surprise.

When Simon took trips to New York, he "stopped" at Mr. Wimple's, and Sally's summer home in
Hendrik was always "Aunt Phoebe's," as she had been taught to call Simon's mother.

You will wonder, then, that Mr. Paul Wimple should have blushed and struggled and died in the
forlorn little "Athenaeum," and that Sally should sit down in her loneliness and "that fright
of a delaine" to wait for customers that came not, when in their old friends' house were comfortable
mansions, and in their old friends' hearts tearful kisses and welcome free as air. But you
must remember that with sudden poverty comes, often, shrinking pride, and a degree of suspicion,
and high scorn of those belittled pensioners who hang upon old ties; that old age, when it
is sorely beset, is not always patient, clear-sighted, and just; that, when the heart of a
young girl, in Sally's extremity, carries the helpless love that had been clad in purple, and
couched in eider, and pampered with bonny cats, and served in gold, to Pride, and asks, "Stern
master, what shall I do with this now?" the answer will be, "Strip it of its silken fooleries,--let
it lie on the ground, the broad bosom of its honest, hearty mother,--teach it the wholesomeness
of brown bread and cresses, fairly earned, and water from the spring,--and let it wait on itself,
and wait for the rest!" Once, when the talk at the Splurge house descended for a moment from
its lofty flights to describe a few eccentric mocking circles around the Hendrik Athenaeum
and Miss Wimple, Madeline said, "If you have sense or decency, be silent;--the girl is true
and brave, every way better taught than we, and prouder than she knows. If we were truly as
scornful of her as she is indifferent to us, we would let her glorious insignificance alone."

So Miss Wimple waited in her shabby little shop and plied her needle for hire. Her lover was
a handsome fellow, with a bright, frank face, and a vigorous, agile, and graceful form; there
was more than common intellect in his clear, broad brow, overhung with close clusters of brown
country curls; taste was on his lips and tenderness in his eyes; his soul was full of generosity,
candor, and fidelity; his every movement and attitude denoted native refinement, and in his
talk he displayed an excellent understanding and remarkable cultivation; for his father had
bestowed on him superior advantages of education;--"as fine a young fellow, Sir," that estimable
old Doctor Vandyke would say, "as ever you saw."

It was true, Simon's travels had never reached beyond New York; but, unlike Mr. Philip Withers,
he had brought home solid comforts, useful facts, wholesome sentiments, natural manners, and
sensible, but modest conversation,--instead of an astonishing variety of intellectual curiosities
and intricate moral toys, whereat plain people marvelled--as in the case of a certain ingenious
Chinese puzzle, ball within ball, all save the last elaborately carved--how the very diminutive
plain one at the centre ever got in there, or ever could be got out.

In another respect the young farmer enjoyed a noticeable advantage over the man-of-the-world;--he
was quite able to tear down those fancy donjon additions, and erect a plain, honest, substantial,
very comfortable, and very cheerful Yankee porch on their site.

But Miss Wimple said to Simon,--"For a season you will keep aloof from this place and from
me. I must see you no oftener than it would be allowable for an occasional customer of the
better sort to drop in; and when you do come, state your business--let it always be business,
or pass by--and take your leave, like any indifferent neighbor who came to change a book, or
purchase a trifle, or engage work. On these terms our love must wait, until by my own unaided
exertions--without help, mark you, Simon, from any man or woman on earth--I have discharged
the debt of charity that is due to the good people of this place who helped my father in his
utmost need, and gave him this shop and these things in trust. From you, of all men, Simon,
I will accept no aid. Play no tricks of kindness upon me; nor let your love tempt you to experiment,
with disguised charity, upon my purpose. You would only find that you had failed, and ruined
all. The proceeds of this poor shop must belong to those whose money procured it, until I shall
have paid its price; on no pretext shall that fund be touched for other purposes. I will sustain
myself independently; you know that I ply a nimble needle, and that my handiwork will be in
esteem among the richer folks of Hendrik. And now, dear Simon, let me have my way. You need
no more earnest assurance of my love than the pains I would take, in this matter, to make you
respect me more. When my task is done, I will deck myself as of old, and again light up the
rose-star in my hair, and stand in the door and clap my hands to call you hither, and hold
you fast; but not till then. Let me have my way till then."

And Simon said,--"You are wiser than I, Sally, and braver, and every way better. I will obey
you in this, and wait,--the more cheerfully because I shall be always at hand, and, if your
heart should fail you, I know you will not refuse my aid, nor prefer another's to mine."

And so they passed for mere acquaintances; and there were some who said--Philip Withers among
them--that "that plausible Golden Farmer, young Blount, had treated the forlorn thing shabbily."

About that time hoops came in, and the Splurge girls flourished the first that appeared in Hendrik.

One day, as Miss Wimple sat in a low Yankee rocking-chair, sewing among her books, she was
favored with the extraordinary apparition of Miss Madeline Splurge,--her first visitor that
day, whether on business or curiosity.

"I wish to procure a small morocco pocket-book, Miss Wimple, if you keep such things."

Miss Wimple, with a slight bow of assent, took from a glass counter-case a paper box in which
was a miscellaneous assortment of such articles; there were five or six of the pocket-books.
Madeline selected one,--a small, flexible affair, of some dark-colored morocco lined with pink
silk. She paid the trifle the shy, demure little librarian demanded, and was taking her leave
in silence, without even a "Good-day," when, as she was passing the door, Miss Wimple espied
on the counter, near where her customer had stood, a visiting-card; her eye fell on the engraved
name,--"Mr. Philip Withers"; of course Miss Splurge had dropped it unawares. She hastened with
it to the door,--Madeline had just stept into the street,--

"This card is yours, I presume, Miss Splurge?"

Madeline turned upon her with a surprised air, inquiringly,--looked in her own hands, and shook
her handkerchief with the quick, nervous, alarmed movement of one who suddenly discovers a
very particular loss,--became, in an instant, pale as death, stared for a moment at Miss Wimple
with fixed eyes, and slightly shivered. Then, quickly and fiercely, she snatched the card from
Miss Wimple's hand,--

"Where--where did you find this? Did--did I leave--drop--?"

"You left it on my counter," Miss Wimple quietly replied, with a considerate self-possession
that admirably counterfeited unconsciousness of Madeline's consternation.

"Come hither, into the shop,--a word with you,"--and Madeline entered quickly, and closed the
door behind her. For a moment she leaned with her elbow on the counter, and pressed her eyes
with her fingers.

"Are you ill, Miss Splurge?" Miss Wimple gently inquired.

"No. Did you read what is on this card?"

"Yes."

"You--you--you read"----Madeline's hands were clenched, her face red and distorted; she gnashed
her teeth, and seemed choking.

"Why, Miss Splurge, what is the matter with you? Yes, I read the name,--Mr. Philip Withers.
The card lay on the counter,--I could not know it was yours,--I read the name, and immediately
brought it to you. What excites you so? Sit down, and calm yourself; surely you are ill."

Madeline did not accept the stool Miss Wimple offered her, but, availing herself of the pause
to assume a forced calmness which left her paler than at first, she fixed her flashing eyes
steadily on the deep, still eyes of her companion, and asked,--

"You did not turn this card, then?--you did not look on the other side?"

"On my honor, I did not."

"On your honor! You are not lying, girl?"--Miss Splurge thrust the card into the newly-purchased
pocket-book, and hid that in her bosom.

"Miss Splurge," said Miss Wimple, very simply, and with no excitement of tone or expression,
"when you feel sufficiently recovered to appear on the street, without exposing yourself there
as you have done in here, go out!"

And Miss Wimple turned from Madeline and would have resumed her sewing; but Madeline cried,--

"Stay, stay, Miss Wimple, I beseech you! I knew not what I said; forgive me, ah, forgive me!--for
you are merciful, as you are pure and true. If you were aware of all, you would know that I
could not insult you, if I would. Trouble, distraction, have made me coarse,--false, too, to
myself as unjust and injurious to you; for I know your virtues, and believe in them as I believe
in little else in this world or the next. If in my hour of agony and shame I could implore
the help of any human being, I would come to you--dear, honest, brave girl!--before all others,
to fling myself at your feet, and kiss your hands, and beseech you to pity me and save me from
myself, to hold my hot head on your gentle bosom, and your soothing hand on my fierce heart.
Good-by! Good-by! I need not ask your pardon again,--you have no anger for such as I. But if
your blessed loneliness is ever disturbed by vulgar, chattering visitors, you will not name
me to them, or confess that you have seen me." And ere Miss Wimple could utter the gentle words
that were already on her lips, Madeline was gone.

For a while Miss Wimple remained standing on the spot, gazing anxiously, but vacantly, toward
the door by which the half-mad lady had departed,--her soft, deep eyes full of painful apprehension.
Then she resumed her little rocking-chair, and, as she gathered up her work from the floor
where she had dropped it, tears trickled down her cheeks; she sighed and shook her head, in
utter sorrow.

"They were always strange women," she thought, "those Splurges,--not a sound heart nor a healthy
mind among them. Could their false, barren life have maddened this proud Madeline? Else what
did she mean by her 'hot head' and her 'fierce heart'? And what had that Philip Withers to
do with her trouble and her distraction? She recollected now that Simon had once said, in his
odd, significant way, that Mr. Withers was a charming person to contemplate from a safe distance,--Simon,
who never lent himself to idle detraction. She remembered, too, that she had often reproached
herself for her irrational prejudice against the man,--that she was forever finding something
false and sinister in the face that every one else said was eminently handsome, and ugly dissonance
in the voice that all Hendrik praised for its music. Was he on both sides of that card?--Ah,
well! it might be just nothing, after all; the poor lady might be ill, or vexed past endurance
at home; or some unhappy love affair might have come to fret her proud, impatient, defiant
temper. But not Withers,--oh, of course not Withers!--for was it not well known that Adelaide
was his choice, that his assiduous and graceful attentions to her silenced even his loudest
enemies, who could no longer accuse him of duplicity and disloyalty to women? But she would
feel less disturbed, and sleep better, perhaps, if she knew that Madeline was safe at home,
and tranquil again."

Thinking of sleep reminded Miss Wimple that she had a pious task to perform before she could
betake her to her sweet little cot. A superannuated and bedridden woman, who had nursed her
mother in her last illness, lived on the northern outskirts of the town; and she must cross
the long covered bridge that spanned the Hendrik River to take a basket full of comforting
trifles to old Hetty that night.

About nine o'clock Miss Wimple had done her charitable errand, and was on her way home again,
with a light step and a happy heart, an empty basket and old Hetty's abundant blessings. She
was alone, but feared nothing,--the streets of Hendrik at night were familiar to her and she
to them; and although her shy and quiet traits were not sufficiently understood to make her
universally beloved, not a loafing ruffian in town but knew her modest face, her odd attire,
and her straightforward walk; and the rudest respected her.

As she approached the covered bridge, the moon was shining brightly at the entrance, making
the gloom within profounder. It was a long, wooden structure, of a kind common enough on the
turnpikes of the Atlantic States, where they cross the broader streams. Stout posts and cross-beams,
and an arch that stretched from end to end, divided the bridge into two longitudinal compartments,
for travellers going and coming respectively; there were small windows on each side, and at
either end, on a conspicuous signboard, were the Company's "Rules,"--"Walk your Horses over
this Bridge, or be subject to a Fine of not less than Five nor exceeding Twenty Dollars"--"Keep
to the Right, as the Law directs."

As Miss Wimple entered the shadow of the bridge on the right hand, she was startled by hearing
excited voices, which seemed to come from the other side of the central arch, and about the
middle of the bridge, where the darkness was deepest:--

"Speak low, I say, or be silent! Some one will be coming presently;--I heard steps approaching
even now"--Miss Wimple instinctively stopped, and stood motionless, almost holding her breath,
at the end of the arch where the moonlight did not reach. She was no eavesdropper, mark you,--the
meannesses she scorned included that character in a special clause. But she had recognised
the voice, and with her own true delicacy would spare the speaker the shame of discovery and
the dread of exposure.--"Speak low, or I will leave you. If you are indifferent for yourself,
you shall not toss me to the geese of Hendrik."

"You are right";--it was a woman's voice; but, whatever her tone had been before, she spoke
so low now, and with a voice so hoarse with suppressed emotion, so altered by a sort of choking
whisper, that Miss Wimple, if she had ever heard it before, could not recognize it;--"You are
right; the time for that has not come;--I could not stay to enjoy it;--I am going now, but
we will meet again."

"What would you have? I have said I would marry you,--and leave you,--so soon as I can shake
myself clear of that other stupid infatuation."

"Now, Philip Withers, what a weak, pusillanimous wretch you must be, having known me so long,
and tried my temper so well, to hope to find me such a fool, after all,--that kind of fool,
I mean! My deepest shame, in this unutterably shameful hour, is that I chose such a cowardly
ass to besot myself with.--There, the subject sickens me, and I am going. Dare to follow me,
and the geese of Hendrik shall have you. I go scot-free, fearing nothing, having nothing to
lose; but I hold you, my exquisite Joseph Surface--oh, the wit of my sister! oh, the wisdom
of fools!--by your fine sentiments; and when I want you I shall find you. I can take care of
me and mine; but beware how you dare to claim lot or portion in what I choose to call my own,
even though your brand be on it,--Joseph!"

She hissed the name, and, with hurried steps, and a low, scornful laugh, departed. As Miss
Wimple, all aghast, leaned forward with quick breath and tumultuous heart, and peered through
the gloom toward where the silver moonlight lay across the further end of the bridge, she saw
a white dress flash across a bright space and disappear. Then Philip Withers stepped forth
into the moonlight, stood there for a minute or two, and gazed in the direction of a branch
road which made off from the turnpike close to the bridge, and led, at right angles to it,
to the railroad station on the right; then slowly, and without once looking back, he followed
the turnpike to the town.

All astonished, bewildered, full of strange, vague fears, Miss Wimple remained in the now awful
gloom and stillness of the bridge till he had quite disappeared. Then gathering up her wits
with an effort, she resumed her homeward way. As she emerged from the shadows into the same
bright place which Withers and his mysterious companion had just passed, she spied something
dark lying on the ground. She stooped and picked it up; it was a small morocco pocket-book
lined with pink silk.

Good Heaven! She remembered,--the one she had sold to Miss Madeline Splurge that afternoon,--the
very same! So, then, that was her voice, her dress; she had, indeed, dimly thought of Madeline
more than once, while that woman was speaking so bitterly,--but had not recognized her tones,
nor once fancied it might be she. Now she easily recalled her words, and understood some of
her allusions. And her wild, distracted, incoherent speech in the shop, too,--ah! it was all
too plain; that was surely she; but what might be the nature or degree of her trouble Miss
Wimple dared not try to guess. This Philip Withers,--was he a villain, after all? "Had he--this
poor lady--Oh, God forbid! No, no, no!"

She opened the pocket-book;--a visiting-card was all it contained. She drew it forth,--"Mr.
Philip Withers,"--yes, she knew it by that broken corner, as though it had been marked so for
a purpose. She held it up before her eyes where the moon was brightest, and--turned the other side.

"Ah, me!" exclaimed that Chevalier Bayard in shabby, skimped delaine, "what was I going to do?"

Blushing, she returned the card to its place, and hiding the pocket-book in her honorable bosom,
hurried homeward. But her soul was troubled as she went; sometimes she sobbed aloud, and more
than once she stood still and wrung her hands.

"Ah! if Simon Blount would but come now to advise me what is safest and best to do!"

Should she go to Mrs. Splurge and tell her all? No,--what right had she? That would but precipitate
an exposure which might not be necessary. The case was not clear enough to justify so officious
a step. Madeline was in no immediate danger. Perhaps she had only taken a different road to
avoid the odious companionship of Withers. No doubt she was half-way home already. She would
wait till morning, for clearer judgment and information. Till then she would hope for the best.

When Miss Wimple reached her humble little nest, she knelt beside her bed and prayed, tearfully,
to the God who averts danger and forgives sin; but she did not sleep all night.

In the morning a gossiping neighbor came with the news;--"that little cooped-up Wimple never
hears anything," she thought.

Miss Madeline Splurge had disappeared. Mr. Philip Withers was searching for her high and low.
She had not been seen since yesterday afternoon,--had not returned home last night. It was
feared she had drowned herself in the river for spite. She, the knowing neighbor, "had always
said so,--had always said that Madeline Splurge was a quare girl,--sich high and mighty airs,
and sich a temper. Now here it was, and what would people say,--specially them as had always
turned up their nose at her opinion?"

Miss Wimple said nothing; but she treated Pity to two poor little lies;--one she told, and
the other she looked:--She was not well, she said, which was the reason why she was so pale;
and then she looked surprised at the news of Madeline's flitting.

Later in the day another report:--A letter left by Madeline had been found at home. She had
taken offence at some sharp thing that sarcastic Mr. Withers, who always did hate her, had
said; and had gone off in a miff, without even good-by or a carpet-bag, and taken the night
train to New York, where she had an uncle on the mother's side.--And a good riddance! Now Miss
Addy and Mr. Withers would have some peace of their time. Such a sweet couple, too!

Madeline had left a note:--"I was sick of you all, and I have escaped from you. You will be
foolish to take any trouble about it."

[To be continued.]

THE CUP.

  The cup I sing is a cup of gold,
  Many and many a century old,
  Sculptured fair, and over-filled
  With wine of a generous vintage, spilled
  In crystal currents and foaming tides
  All round its luminous, pictured sides.

  Old Time enamelled and embossed
  This ancient cup at an infinite cost.
  Its frame he wrought of metal that run
  Red from the furnace of the sun.
  Ages on ages slowly rolled
  Before the glowing mass was cold,
  And still he toiled at the antique mould,
  Turning it fast in his fashioning hand,
  Tracing circle, layer, and band,
  Carving figures quaint and strange,
  Pursuing, through many a wondrous change,
  The symmetry of a plan divine.
  At last he poured the lustrous wine,
  Crowned high the radiant wave with light,
  And held aloft the goblet bright,
  Half in shadow, and wreathed in mist
  Of purple, amber, and amethyst.

  This is the goblet from whose brink
  All creatures that have life must drink:
  Foemen and lovers, haughty lord
  And sallow beggar with lips abhorred.
  The new-born infant, ere it gain
  The mother's breast, this wine must drain.
  The oak with its subtile juice is fed,
  The rose drinks till her cheeks are red,
  And the dimpled, dainty violet sips
  The limpid stream with loving lips.
  It holds the blood of sun and star,
  And all pure essences that are:
  No fruit so high on the heavenly vine,
  Whose golden hanging clusters shine
  On the far-off shadowy midnight hills,
  But some sweet influence it distils
  That slideth down the silvery rills.
  Here Wisdom drowned her dangerous thought,
  The early gods their secrets brought;
  Beauty, in quivering lines of light,
  Ripples before the ravished sight;
  And the unseen mystic spheres combine
  To charm the cup and drug the wine.

  All day I drink of the wine and deep
  In its stainless waves my senses steep;
  All night my peaceful soul lies drowned
  In hollows of the cup profound;
  Again each morn I clamber up
  The emerald crater of the cup,
  On massive knobs of jasper stand
  And view the azure ring expand:
  I watch the foam-wreaths toss and swim
  In the wine that o'erruns the jewelled rim,
  Edges of chrysolite emerge,
  Dawn-tinted, from the misty surge;
  My thrilled, uncovered front I lave,
  My eager senses kiss the wave,
  And drain, with its viewless draught, the lore
  That warmeth the bosom's secret core,
  And the fire that maddens the poet's brain
  With wild sweet ardor and heavenly pain.

THE LANGUAGE OF THE SEA.

Every calling has something of a special dialect. Even where there is, one would think, no
necessity for it, as in the conversation of Sophomores, sporting men, and reporters for the
press, a dialect is forthwith partly invented, partly suffered to grow, and the sturdy stem
of original English exhibits a new crop of parasitic weeds which often partake of the nature
of fungi and betoken the decay of the trunk whence they spring.

Is this the case with the language of the sea? Has the sea any language? or has each national
tongue grafted into it the technology of the maritime calling?

The sea has its own laws,--the common and unwritten law of the forecastle, of which Admiralty
Courts take infrequent cognizance, and the law of the quarter-deck, which is to be read in
acts of Parliament and statutes of Congress. The sea has its own customs, superstitions, traditions,
architecture, and government; wherefore not its own language? We maintain that it has, and
that this tongue, which is not enumerated by Adelung, which possesses no grammar and barely
a lexicon of its own, and which is not numbered among the polyglot achievements of Mezzofanti
or Burritt, has yet a right to its place among the world's languages.

Like everything else which is used at sea,--except salt-water,--its materials came from shore.
As the ship is originally wrought from the live-oak forests of Florida and the pine mountains
of Norway, the iron mines of England, the hemp and flax fields of Russia, so the language current
upon her deck is the composite gift of all sea-loving peoples. But as all these physical elements
of construction suffer a sea-change on passing into the service of Poseidon, so again the landward
phrases are metamorphosed by their contact with the main. But no one set of them is allowed
exclusive predominance. For the ocean is the only true, grand, federative commonwealth which
has never owned a single master. The cloud-compelling Zeus might do as he pleased on land;
but far beyond the range of outlook from the white watch-tower of Olympus rolled the immeasurable
waves of the wine-purple deep, acknowledging only the Enosigaios Poseidon. Consequently, while
Zeus allotted to this and that hero and demigod Argos and Mycene and the woody Zacynthus, each
to each, the ocean remained unbounded and unmeted. Nation after nation, race after race, has
tried its temporary lordship, but only at the pleasure of the sea itself. Sometimes the ensign
of sovereignty has been an eagle, sometimes a winged lion,--now a black raven, then a broom,--to-day
St. Andrew's Cross, to-morrow St George's, perhaps the next a starry cluster. There is no permanent
architecture of the main by which to certify the triumphs of these past invaders. Their ruined
castles are lying "fifty fathom deep,"--Carthaginian galley and Roman trireme, the argosy of
Spain, the "White Ship" of Fitz Stephen, the "Ville de Paris," down to the latest "non-arrival"
whispered at Lloyd's,--all are gone out of sight into the forgotten silences of the green underworld.
Upon the land we can trace Roman and Celt, Saxon and Norman, by names and places, by minster,
keep, and palace. This one gave the battlement, that the pinnacle, the other the arch. But
the fluent surface of the sea takes no such permanent impression. Gone are the quaint stern-galleries,
gone the high top-gallant fore-castles, gone the mighty banks of oars of the olden time. It
is only in the language that we are able to trace the successive nations in their march along
the mountain waves; for to that each has from time to time given its contribution, and of each
it has worn the seeming stamp, till some Actium or Lepanto or Cape Trafalgar has compelled
its reluctant transfer to another's hands.

Or rather, we may say, the language of the sea comes and makes a part, as it were, of the speech
of many different nations, as the sailor abides for a season in Naples, Smyrna, Valparaiso,
Canton, and New York,--and from each it borrows, as the sailor does, from this a silk handkerchief,
from that a cap, here a brooch, and there a scrap of tattooing, but still remains inhabitant
of all and citizen of none,--the language of the seas.

What do we mean by this? It is that curious nomenclature which from truck to keelson clothes
the ship with strange but fitting phrases,--which has its proverbs, idioms, and forms of expression
that are of the sea, salt, and never of the land, earthy. Wherever tidewater flows, goes also
some portion of this speech. It is "understanded of the people" among all truly nautical races.
It dominates over their own languages, so that the Fin and Mowree, (Maori,) the Lascar and
the Armorican, meeting on the same deck, find a common tongue whereby to carry on the ship's
work,--the language in which to "hand, reef, and steer."

Whence did it come? From all nautical peoples. Not from the Hebrew race. To them the possession
of the soil was a fixed idea. The sea itself had nothing wherewith to tempt them; they were
not adventurers or colonizers; they had none of that accommodating temper as to creed, customs,
and diet, which is the necessary characteristic of the sailor. But the nations they expelled
from Canaan, the worshippers of the fish-tailed Dagon, who fled westward to build Tartessus
(Tarshish) on the Gaditanian peninsula, or who clung with precarious footing to the sea-shore
of Philistia and the rocky steeps of Tyre and Sidon,--these were seafarers. From them their
Greek off-shoots, the Ionian islanders, inherited something of the maritime faculty. There
are traces in the "Odyssey" of a nautical language, of a technology exclusively belonging to
the world "off soundings," and an exceeding delight in the rush and spray-flinging of a vessel's
motion,--

  "The purple wave hissed from the bow of the
  bark in its going."

Hence the Greek is somewhat of a sailor to this day, and in many a Mediterranean port lie sharp
and smartly-rigged brigantines with classic names of old Heathendom gilt in pure Greek type
upon their sterns.

But the Greek and Carthaginian elements of the ocean language must now lie buried very deep
in it, and it is hard to recognize their original image and superscription in those smooth-worn
current coins which form the basis of the sea-speech. It is not within the limits of a cursory
paper like this to enter into too deep an investigation, or to trace perhaps a fanciful lineage
for such principal words as "mast," and "sail," and "rope." In one word, "anchor," the Greek
plainly survives,--and doubtless many others might be made out by a skilful philologist.

The Roman, to whom the empire of the sea, or, more properly speaking, the petty principality
of the Mediterranean, was transferred, had little liking for that sceptre. He was driven to
the water by sheer necessity, but he never took to it kindly. He was at best a sea-soldier,
a marine, not brought up from the start in the merchant-service and then polished into the
complete blue-jacket and able seaman of the navy. Nobody can think of those ponderous old Romans,
whose comedies were all borrowed from Attica, whose poems were feeble echoes of the Greek,
and whose architecture, art, and domestic culture were at best the work of foreign artists,--nobody
can think of them at sea without a quiet chuckle at the inevitable consequences of the first
"reef-topsail breeze." Fancy those solemn, stately Patricians, whose very puns are ponderous
enough to set their galleys a streak deeper in the water, fancy them in a brisk sea with a
nor'wester brewing to windward, watching off the port of Carthage for Admiral Hasdrubal and
his fleet to come out. They were good hand-to-hand fighters,--none better; and so they won
their victories, no doubt; but, having won them, they dropped sea-going, and made the conquered
nations transport their corn and troops, while they went back to their congenial camps and
solemn Senate-debates.

But Italy was not settled by the Roman alone. A black-haired, fire-eyed, daring, flexible race
had colonized the Sicilian Islands, and settled thickly around the Tarentine Gulf, and built
their cities up the fringes of the Apennines as far as the lovely Bay of Parthenope. Greek
they were,--by tradition the descendants of those who took Troy-town,--Greek they are to this
day, as any one may see who will linger on the Mole or by the Santa Lucia Stairs at Naples.
At Salerno, at Amalfi, were cradled those fishing-hamlets which were to nurse seamen, and not
soldiers. Far up the Adriatic, the storm of Northern invasion had forced a fair-haired and
violet-eyed folk into the fastnesses of the lagoons, to drive their piles and lay their keels
upon the reedy islets of San Giorgio and San Marco; while on the western side an ancient Celtic
colony was rising into prominence, and rearing at the foot of the Ligurian Alps the palaces
of Genoa the Proud.

Thus upon the Italian stock was begun the language of the seas. Upon the Italian main the words
"tack" and "sheet," "prow" and "poop," were first heard; and those most important terms by
which the law of the marine highway is given,--"starboard" and "larboard." For if, after the
Italian popular method, we contract the words questo bordo (this side) and quello bordo (that
side) into sto bordo and lo bordo, we have the roots of our modern phrases. And so the term
"port," which in naval usage supersedes "larboard," is the abbreviated porta lo timone, (carry
the helm,) which, like the same term in military usage, "port arms," seems traditionally to
suggest the left hand.

But while the Italian races were beginning their brief but brilliant career, there was in training
a nobler and hardier race of seamen, from whose hands the helm would not so soon be wrested.
The pirates of the Baltic were wrestling with the storms of the wild Cattegat and braving the
sleety squalls of the Skager Rack, stretching far out from the land to colonize Iceland and
the Faroes, to plant a mysteriously lost nation in Eastern Greenland, and to leave strange
traces of themselves by the vine-clad shores of Narraganset Bay. For, first of all nations
and races to steer boldly into the deep, to abandon the timid fashion of the Past, which groped
from headland to headland, as boys paddle skiffs from wharf to wharf, the Viking met the blast
and the wave, and was no more the slave, but the lord of the sea. He it was, who, abandoning
the traditionary rule which loosened canvas only to a wind dead aft or well on the quarter,
learned to brace up sharp on a wind and to baffle the adverse airs. Yet he, too, was overmuch
a fighter to make a true seaman, and his children no sooner set foot on the shore than they
drew their swords and went to carving the conquered land into Norman lordships. But where they
piloted the way others followed, and city after city along the German Ocean and upon the British
coasts became also maritime. For King Alfred had come, and the English oaks were felled, and
their gnarled boughs found exceedingly convenient for the curved knees of ships. Upon the Italian
stock became engrafted the Norman, and French, and Danish, the North German and Saxon elements.
And so, after a century of crusading had thoroughly broken up the stay-at-home notions of Europe,
the maritime spirit blazed up. Spain and Portugal now took the lead and were running races
against each other, the one in the Western, the other in the Eastern seas, and flaunting their
crowned flags in monopoly of the Indian archipelagos and the American tropics. Just across
the North Sea, over the low sand-dykes of Holland, scarce higher than a ship's bulwarks, looked
a race whom the spleeny wits of other nations declared to be born web-footed. Yet their sails
were found in every sea, and, like resolute merchants, as they were, they left to others the
glory while they did the world's carrying. Their impress upon the sea-language was neither
faint nor slight. They were true marines, and from Manhattan Island to utmost Japan, the brown,
bright sides, full bows, and bulwarks tumbling home of the Dutchman were familiar as the sea-gulls.
Underneath their clumsy-looking upper-works, the lines were true and sharp; and but the other
day, when the world's clippers were stooping their lithe racehorse-like forms to the seas in
the great ocean sweepstakes, the fleetest of all was--a Dutchman.

But to combine and fuse all these elements was the work of England. To that nation, with its
noble inheritance of a composite language, incomparably rich in all the nomenclature of natural
objects and sounds, was given especially the coast department, so to speak, of language. Every
variety of shore, from shingly beaches to craggy headlands, was theirs. While the grand outlines
and larger features are Italian, such as Cape, Island, Gulf, the minuter belong to the Northern
races, who are closer observers of Nature's nice differences, and who take more delight in
a frank, fearless acquaintance and fellowship with out-door objects. Beach, sand, headland,
foreland, shelf, reef, breaker, bar, bank, ledge, shoal, spit, sound, race, reach, are words
of Northern origin. So, too, the host of local names by which every peculiar feature of shore-scenery
is individualized,--as, for instance, the Needles, the Eddystone, the Three Chimneys, the Hen
and Chickens, the Bishop and Clerks. The strange atmospheric phenomena, especially of the tropics,
have been christened by the Spaniard and Portuguese, the Corposant, the Pampero, the Tornado,
the Hurricane. Then follows a host of words of which the derivation is doubtful,--such as sea,
mist, foam, scud, rack. Their monosyllabic character may only be the result of that clipping
and trimming which words get on shipboard. Your seaman's tongue is a true bed of Procrustes
for the unhappy words that roll over it. They are docked without mercy, or, now and then, when
not properly mouth-filling, they are "spliced" with a couple of vowels. It is impossible to
tell the whys and wherefores of sea-prejudices.

We have now indicated the main sources of the ocean-language. As new nations are received into
the nautical brotherhood, and as new improvements are made, new terms come in. The whole whaling
diction is the contribution of America, or rather of Nantucket, New Bedford, and New London,
aided by the islands of the Pacific and the mongrel Spanish ports of the South Seas. Here and
there an adventurous genius coins a phrase for the benefit of posterity,--as we once heard
a mate order a couple of men to "go forrard and trim the ship's whiskers," to the utter bewilderment
of his captain, who, in thirty years' following of the sea, had never heard the martingale
chains and stays so designated. But the source of the great body of the sea-language might
be marked out on the map by a current flowing out of the Straits of Gibraltar and meeting a
similar tide from the Baltic, the two encountering and blending in the North Sea and circling
Great Britain, while not forgetting to wash the dykes of Holland as they go. How to distinguish
the work of each, in founding the common tongue, is not here our province.

It would be difficult to classify the words in nautical use,--impossible here to do more than
hint at such a possibility. A specimen or two will show the situation of the present tongue,
and the blending process already gone through with. We need not dip for this so far into the
tar-bucket as to bother (nauticè, "galley") the landsman. We will take terms familiar to all.
The three masts of a ship are known as "fore," "main," and "mizzen." Of these, the first is
English, the second Norman-French, the third Italian (mezzano). To go from masts to sails,
we have "duck" from the Swedish duk, and "canvas" from the Mediterranean languages,--from the
root canna, a cane or reed,--thence a cloth of reeds or rushes, a mat-sail,--hence any sail.
Of the ends of a ship, "stern" is from the Saxon stearn, steering-place; "stem," from the German
stamm. The whole family of ropes--of which, by the way, it is a common saying, that there are
but three to a ship, namely, bolt-rope, bucket-rope, and man-rope, all the rest of the cordage
being called by its special name, as tack, sheet, clew-line, bow-line, brace, shroud, or stay--the
whole family of ropes are akin only by marriage. "Cable" is from the Semitic root kebel, to
cord, and is the same in all nautical uses. "Hawser"--once written halser--is from the Baltic
stock,--the rope used for halsing or hauling along; while "painter," the small rope by which
a boat is temporarily fastened, is Irish,--from painter, a snare. "Sheet" is Italian,--from
scotta; "brace" French, and "stay" English. "Clew" is Saxon; "garnet" (from granato, a fruit)
is Italian,--that is, the garnet- or pomegranate-shaped block fastened to the clew or corner
of the courses, and hence the rope running through the block. Then we find in the materials
used in stopping leaks the same diversity. "Pitch" one easily gets from pix (Latin); "tar"
as easily from the Saxon tare, tyr. "Junk," old rope, is from the Latin juncus, a bulrush,--the
material used along the Mediterranean shore for calking; "oakum," from the Saxon oecumbe, or
hemp. The verb "calk" may come from the Danish kalk, chalk,--to rub over,--or from the Italian
calafatare. The now disused verb "to pay" is from the Italian pagare;--it survives only in
the nautical aphorism, "Here's the Devil to pay,"--that is, to pitch the ship,--"and no pitch
hot." In handing the sails, "to loose" is good English,--"to furl" is Armorican, and belongs
to the Mediterranean class of words. "To rake," which is applied to spars, is from the Saxon
racian, to incline;--"to steeve," which is applied to the bowsprit, and often pronounced "stave,"
is from the Italian stivare. When we get below-decks, we find "cargo" to be Spanish,--while
"ballast" (from bat, a boat, and last, a load) is Saxon. A ship in ballast comes from the Baltic,--a
vessel and cargo from the Bay of Biscay. Sailors must eat; but there is a significant distinction
between merchant-seamen and man-o'-war's-men. The former is provided for at the "caboose,"
or "camboose," (Dutch, kombuis); the latter goes to the "galley," (Italian, galera, in helmet,
primitively). This distinction is fast dying out,--the naval term superseding the mercantile,--just
as in America the title "captain" has usurped the place of the more precise and orthodox term,
"master," which is now used only in law-papers. The "bowsprit" is a compound of English and
Dutch. The word "yard" is English; the word "boom," Dutch. The word "reef" is Welsh, from rhevu,
to thicken or fold; "tack" and "sheet" are both Italian; "deck" is German. Other words are
the result of contractions. Few would trace in "dipsey," a sounding-lead, the words "deep sea";
or in "futtocks" the combination "foot-hooks,"--the name of the connecting-pieces of the floor-timbers
of a ship. "Breast-hook" has escaped contraction. Sailors have, indeed, a passion for metamorphosing
words,--especially proper names. Those lie a little out of our track; but two instances are
too good to be omitted:--The "Bellerophon," of the British navy, was always known as the "Bully-ruffian,"
and the "Ville de Milan," a French prize, as the "Wheel-'em-along." Here you have a random
bestowal of names which seems to defy all analysis of the rule of their bestowal.

If the reader inclines to follow up the scent here indicated, we can add a hint or two which
may be of service. We have shown the sources, which should, for purposes of classification,
be designated, not as English, Italian, Danish, etc., but nautically, as Mediterranean, Baltic,
or Atlantic. These three heads will serve for general classification, to which must be added
a fourth or "off-soundings" department, into which should go all words suggested by whim or
accidental resemblances,--such terms as "monkey-rail," "Turk's head," "dead-eye," etc.,--or
which get the name of an inventor, as a "Matthew-Walker knot." More than that cannot well be
given without going into the whole detail of naval history, tactics, and science,--a thing,
of course, impossible here.

This brings us to another view of the subject, which may serve for conclusion. A great many
people take upon themselves to act for and about the sailor, to preach to him, make laws for
him, act as his counsel, write tracts for him, and generally to look after his moral and physical
well-being. Now eleven out of every dozen of these are continually making themselves ridiculous
by an utter ignorance of all nautical matters. They pick up a few worn-out phrases of sea-life,
which have long since left the forecastle, and which have been bandied about from one set of
landsmen to another, have been dropped by sham-sailors begging on fictitious wooden-legs, then
by small sea-novelists, handed to smaller dramatists for the Wapping class of theatres, to
be by them abandoned to the smallest writers of pirate and privateer tales for the Sunday press.
And stringing these together, with a hazy apprehension of their meaning, they think they are
"talking sailor" in great perfection. Now the sailor will talk with pleasure to any straightforward
and perfectly "green" landsman, and the two will converse in an entirely intelligible manner.
But confusion worse confounded is the result of this ambitious ignorance,--confusion of brain
to the sailor, and confusion of face to the landsman.

For the sea has a language, beyond a peradventure,--an exceedingly arbitrary, technical, and
perplexing one, unless it be studied with the illustrated grammar of the full-rigged ship before
one, with the added commentaries of the sea and the sky and the coast chart. To learn to speak
it requires about as long as to learn to converse passably in French, Italian, or Spanish;
and unless it be spoken well, it is exceedingly absurd to any appreciative listener.

If you desire to study it philologically, after the living manner of Dean Trench, it will well
repay you. If you desire to use it as a familiar vehicle of discourse, wherewith to impress
the understanding and heart of the sailor, you undertake a very difficult thing. For though
men are moved best by apt illustrations from the things familiar to them, unapt illustrations
most surely disgust them.

But if you earnestly desire it, we know of but one certain course, which is best explained
in a brief anecdote. An English gentleman, who was in all the agonies of a rough and tedious
passage from Folkestone to Boulogne, was especially irritated by the aggravating nonchalance
of a fellow-passenger, who perpetrated all manner of bilious feats, in eating, drinking, and
smoking, unharmed. English reserve and the agony of sea-sickness long contended in Sir John's
breast. At last the latter conquered, and, leaning from the window of his travelling-carriage,
which was securely lashed to the forward deck of the steamer, he exclaimed,--"I say, d'ye know,
I'd give a guinea to know your secret for keeping well in this infernal Channel." The traveller
solemnly extended one hand for the money, and, as it dropped into his palm, with the other
shaded his mouth, that no portion of the oracle might fall on unpaid-for ears, and whispered,--"Hark
ye, brother, GO TO SEA TWENTY YEARS, AS I HAVE."

THE WHIRLIGIG OF TIME.

"And thus the whirligig of time brings in his revenges."--TWELFTH NIGHT.

My friend Jameson, the lawyer, has frequently whiled away an evening in relating incidents
which occurred in his practice during his residence in a Western State. On one occasion he
gave a sketch of a criminal trial in which he was employed as counsel; the story, as developed
in court and completed by one of the parties subsequently, made so indelible an impression
on my mind that I am constrained to write down its leading features. At the same time, I must
say, that, if I had heard it without a voucher for its authenticity, I should have regarded
it as the most improbable of fictions. But the observing reader will remember that remarkable
coincidences, and the signal triumph of the right, called poetical justice, are sometimes seen
in actual life as well as in novels.

The tale must begin in Saxony. Carl Proch was an honest farmer, who tilled a small tract of
crown land and thereby supported his aged mother. Faithful to his duties, he had never a thought
of discontent, but was willing to plod on in the way his father had gone before him. Filial
affection, however, did not so far engross him as to prevent his casting admiring glances on
the lovely Katrine, daughter of old Rauchen, the miller; and no wonder, for she was as fascinating
a damsel as ever dazzled and perplexed a bashful lover. She had admiration enough, for to see
her was to love her; many of the village youngsters had looked unutterable things as they met
her at May-feasts and holidays, but up to this time she had received no poetical epistles nor
direct proposals, and was as cheerful and heart-free as the birds that sang around her windows.
Her father was the traditional guardian of beauty, surly as the mastiff that watched his sacks
of flour and his hoard of thalers; and though he doted on his darling Katrine, his heart to
all the world beside seemed to be only a chip from one of his old mill-stones. When Carl thought
of the severe gray eyes that shot such glances at all lingering youths, the difficulty of winning
the pretty heiress seemed to be quite enough, even with a field clear of rivals. But two other
suitors now made advances, more or less openly, and poor Carl thought himself entirely overshadowed.
One was Schönfeld, the most considerable farmer in the neighborhood, a widower, with hair beginning
to show threads of silver, and a fierce man withal, who was supposed to have once slain a rival,
wearing thereafter a seam in his cheek as a souvenir of the encounter. The other was Hans Stolzen,
a carpenter, past thirty, a shrewd, well-to-do fellow, with nearly a thousand thalers saved
from his earnings. Carl had never fought a duel,--and he had not saved so much as a thousand
groschen, to say nothing of thalers; he had only a manly figure, a cheery, open face, the freshness
of one-and-twenty, and a heart incapable of guile. Katrine was not long in discovering these
excellences, and, if his boldness had equalled his passion, she would have shown him how little
she esteemed the pretensions of the proud landholder or the miserly carpenter. But he took
it for granted that he was a fool to contend against such odds, and, buttoning his jacket tightly
over his throbbing heart, toiled away in his little fields, thinking that the whole world had
never contained so miserable a man.

Hans Stolzen was the first to propose. He began by paying court to the jealous Rauchen himself,
set forth his property and prospects, and asked to become his son-in-law. The miller heard
him, puffed long whiffs, and answered civilly, but without committing himself. He was in no
hurry to part with the only joy he had, and, as Katrine was barely eighteen, he naturally thought
there would be time enough to consider of her marriage hereafter. Hans hardly expected anything
more decisive, and, as he had not been flatly refused, came frequently to the house and chatted
with her father, while his eyes followed the vivacious Katrine as she tripped about her household
duties. But Hans was perpetually kept at a distance; the humming-bird would never alight upon
the outstretched hand. He had not the wit to see that their natures had nothing in common,
although he did know that Katrine was utterly indifferent towards him, and after some months
of hopeless pursuit he began to grow sullenly angry. He was not long without an object on which
to vent his rage.

One evening, as Katrine was returning homeward, she chanced to pass Carl's cottage. Carl was
loitering under a tree hard by, listening to the quick footsteps to which his heart kept time.
It was the coming of Fate to him, for he had made up his mind to tell her of the love that
was consuming him. Two days before, with tears on his bashful face, he had confided all to
his mother; and, at her suggestion, he had now provided a little present by way of introduction.
Katrine smiled sweetly as she approached, for, with a woman's quick eye, she had read his glances
long before. His lips at first rebelled, but he struggled out a salutation, and, the ice once
broken, he found himself strangely unembarrassed. He breathed freely. It seemed to him that
their relations must have been fixed in some previous state of existence, so natural was it
to be in familiar and almost affectionate communication with the woman whom before he had loved
afar off, as a page might sigh for a queen.

"Stay, Katrine," he said,--"I had nearly forgotten." He ran hastily into the cottage, and soon
returned with a covered basket. "See, Katrine, these white rabbits!--are they not pretty?"

"Oh, the little pets!" exclaimed Katrine. "Are they yours?"

"No, Katrinchen,--that is, they were mine; now they are yours."

"Thank you, Carl. I shall love them dearly."

"For my sake?"

"For their own, Carl, certainly; for yours also,--a little."

"Good-bye, Bunny," said he, patting the head of one of the rabbits. "Love your mistress; and,
mind, little whitey, don't keep those long ears of yours for nothing; tell me if you ever hear
anything about me."

"Perhaps Carl had better come and hear for himself,--don't you think so, Bunny?" said Katrine,
taking the basket.

The tone and manner said more than the words. Carl's pulses bounded; he seized her unresisting
hand and covered it with kisses. "So! this is the bashful young man!" thought Katrine. "I shall
not need to encourage him any more, surely."

The night was coming on; Katrine remembered her father, and started towards the mill, whose
broad arms could scarcely be seen through the twilight. Carl accompanied her to the gate, and,
after a furtive glance upward to the house-windows, bade her farewell, with a kiss, and turned
homeward, feeling himself a man for the first time in his life.

Frau Proch had seen the pantomime through the flowers that stood on the window-sill, not ill-pleased,
and was waiting her son's return. An hour passed, and he did not come. Another hour, and she
began to grow anxious. When it was near midnight, she roused her nearest neighbor and asked
him to go towards the mill and look for Carl. An hour of terrible suspense ensued. It was worse
than she had even feared. Carl lay by the roadside, not far from the mill, insensible, covered
with blood, moaning feebly at first, and afterwards silent, if not breathless. Ghastly wounds
covered his head, and his arms and shoulders were livid with bruises. The neighboring peasants
surrounded the apparently lifeless body, and listened with awe to the frenzied imprecations
of Frau Proch upon the murderer of her son. "May he die in a foreign land," said she, lifting
her withered hands to Heaven, "without wife to nurse him or priest to speak peace to his soul!
May his body lie unburied, a prey for wolves and vultures! May his inheritance pass into the
hands of strangers, and his name perish from the earth!" They muttered their prayers, as they
encountered her bloodshot, but tearless eyes, and left her with her son.

For a whole day and night he did not speak; then a violent brain-fever set in, and he raved
continually. He fancied himself pursued by Hans Stolzen, and recoiled as from the blows of
his staff. When this was reported, suspicion was directed at once to Stolzen as the criminal;
but before an arrest could be made, it was found that he had fled. His disappearance confirmed
the belief of his guilt. In truth, it was the rejected suitor, who, in a fit of jealous rage,
had waylaid his rival in the dark, beat him, and left him for dead.

Katrine, who had always disliked Stolzen, especially after he had pursued her with his coarse
and awkward gallantry, now naturally felt a warmer affection for the victim of his brutality.
She threw off all disguise, and went frequently to Frau Proch's cottage, to aid in nursing
the invalid during his slow and painful recovery. She had, one day, the unspeakable pleasure
of catching the first gleam of returning sanity in her hapless lover, as she bent over him
and with gentle fingers smoothed his knotted forehead and temples. An indissoluble tie now
bound them together; their mutual love was consecrated by suffering and sacrifice; and they
vowed to be faithful in life and in death.

When Carl at length became strong and commenced labor, he hoped speedily to claim his betrothed,
and was waiting a favorable opportunity to obtain her father's consent to their marriage. The
scars were the only evidence of the suffering he had endured. No bones had been broken, and
he was as erect and as vigorous as before the assault. But Carl, most unfortunate of men, was
not destined so soon to enjoy the happiness for which he hoped,--the love that had called him
back to life. As the robber eagle sits on his cliff, waiting till the hawk has seized the ring-dove,
then darts down and beats off the captor, that he may secure for himself the prize,--so Schönfeld,
not uninformed of what was going on, stood ready to pounce upon the suitor who should gain
Katrine's favor, and sweep the last rival out of the way. An officer in the king's service
appeared in the village to draw the conscripts for the army, and the young men trembled like
penned-up sheep at the entrance of the blood-stained butcher, not knowing who would be seized
for the shambles. The officer had apparently been a friend and companion of Schönfeld's in
former days, and passed some time at his house. It was perhaps only a coincidence, but it struck
the neighbors as very odd at least, that Carl Proch was the first man drawn for the army. He
had no money to hire a substitute, and there was no alternative; he must serve his three years.
This last blow was too much for his poor mother. Worn down by her constant assiduity in nursing
him, and overcome by the sense of utter desolation, she sunk into her grave, and was buried
on the very day that Carl, with the other recruits, was marched off.

What new torture the betrothed Katrine felt is not to be told. Three years were to her an eternity;
and her imagination called up such visions of danger from wounds, privations, and disease,
that she parted from her lover as though it were forever. The miller found that the light and
the melody of his house were gone. Katrine was silent and sorrowful; her frame wasted and her
step grew feeble. To all his offers of condolence she made no reply, except to remind him how
with tears she had besought his interference in Carl's behalf. She would not be comforted.
The father little knew the feeling she possessed; he had thought that her attachment to her
rustic lover was only a girlish fancy, and that she would speedily forget him; but now her
despairing look frightened him. To the neighbors, who looked inquisitively as he sat by the
mill-door, smoking, he complained of the quality of his tobacco, vowing that it made his eyes
so tender that they watered upon the slightest whiff.

For six months Schönfeld wisely kept away; that period, he thought, would be long enough to
efface any recollection of the absent soldier. Then he presented himself, and, in his usual
imperious way, offered his hand to Katrine. The miller was inclined to favor his suit. In wealth
and position Schönfeld was first in the village; he would be a powerful ally, and a very disagreeable
enemy. In fact, Rauchen really feared to refuse the demand; and he plied his daughter with
such argument as he could command, hoping to move her to accept the offer. Katrine, however,
was convinced of the truth of her former suspicion, that Carl was a victim of Schönfeld's craft;
and her rejection of his proposal was pointed with an indignation which she took no pains to
conceal. The old scar showed strangely white in his purple face, as he left the mill, vowing
vengeance for the affront.

Rauchen and his daughter were now more solitary than ever. The father had forgotten the roaring
stories he used to tell to the neighboring peasants, over foaming flagons of ale, at the little
inn; he sat at his mill-door and smoked incessantly. Katrine shunned the festivities in which
she was once queen, and her manner, though kindly, was silent and reserved; she went to church,
it is true, but she wore a look of settled sorrow that awed curiosity and even repelled sympathy.
But scandal is a plant that needs no root in the earth; like the houseleek, it can thrive upon
air; and those who separate themselves the most entirely from the world are apt, for that very
reason, to receive the larger share of its attention. The village girls looked first with pity,
then with wonder, and at length with aversion, upon the gentle and unfortunate Katrine. Careless
as she was with regard to public opinion, she saw not without pain the altered looks of her
old associates, and before long she came to know the cause. A cruel suspicion had been whispered
about, touching her in a most tender point. It was not without reason, so the gossip ran, that
she had refused so eligible an offer of marriage Schönfeld's. The story reached the ears of
Rauchen, at last. With a fierce energy, such as he had never exhibited before, he tracked it
from cottage to cottage, until he came to Schönfeld's housekeeper, who refused to give her
authority. The next market-day Rauchen encountered the former suitor and publicly charged him
with the slander, in such terms as his baseness deserved. Schönfeld, thrown off his guard by
the sudden attack, struck his adversary a heavy blow; but the miller rushed upon him, and left
him to be carried home, a bundle of aches and bruises. After this the tongues of the gossips
were quiet; no one was willing to answer for guesses or rumors at the end of Rauchen's staff;
and the father and daughter resumed their monotonous mode of life.

The three years at length passed, and Carl Proch returned home,--a trifle more sedate, perhaps,
but the same noble, manly fellow. How warmly he was received by the constant Katrine it is
not necessary to relate. Rauchen was not disposed to thwart his long-suffering daughter any
further; and with his consent the young couple were speedily married, and lived in his house.
The gayety of former years came back; cheerful songs and merry laughter were heard in the lately
silent rooms. Rauchen himself grew younger, especially after the birth of a grandson, and often
resumed his old place at the inn, telling the old stories with the old gusto over the ever-welcome
ale. But one morning, not long after, he was found dead in his bed; a smile was on his face,
and his limbs were stretched out as in peaceful repose.

There was no longer any tie to bind Carl to his native village. All his kin, as well as Katrine's,
were in the grave. He was not bred a miller, and did not feel competent to manage the mill.
Besides, his mind had received new ideas while he was in the army. He had heard of countries
where men were equal before the laws, where the peasant owed no allegiance but to society.
The germ of liberty had been planted in his breast, and he could no longer live contented with
the rank in which he had been born. At least he wished that his children might grow up free
from the chilling influences that had fallen upon him. At his earnest persuasion, Katrine consented
that the mill should be sold, and soon after, with his wife and child, he went to Bremen and
embarked for America.

       *       *       *       *       *

We must now follow the absconding Stolzen, who, with his bag of thalers, had made good his
escape into England. He lived in London, where he found society among his countrymen. His habitual
shrewdness never deserted him, and from small beginnings he gradually amassed a moderate fortune.
His first experiment in proposing for a wife satisfied him, but in a great city his sensual
nature was fully developed. His brutal passions were unchecked; conscience seemed to have left
him utterly. At length he began to think about quitting London. He was afraid to return to
Germany, for, as he had left Carl to all appearance dead, he thought the officers of the law
would seize him. He determined to go to Australia, and secured a berth in a clipper ship bound
for Melbourne, but some accident prevented his reaching the pier in season; the vessel sailed
without him, and was never heard of afterwards. Then he proposed to buy an estate in Canada;
but the owner failed to make his appearance at the time appointed for the negotiation, and
the bargain was not completed. At last he took passage for New York, whither a Hebrew acquaintance
of his had gone, a year or two before, and was established as a broker. Upon arriving in that
city, Stolzen purchased of an agent a tract of land in a Western State, situated on the shore
of Lake Michigan; and after reserving a sum of money for immediate purposes, he deposited his
funds with his friend, the broker, and started westward. He travelled the usual route by rail,
then a short distance in a mail-coach, which carried him within six miles of his farm. Leaving
his luggage to be sent for, he started to walk the remaining distance. It was a sultry day,
and the prairie road was anything but pleasant to a pedestrian unaccustomed to heat and dust.
After walking less than an hour, he determined to stop at a small house near the road, for
rest, and some water to quench his thirst; but as he approached, the baying hounds, no less
than the squalid children about the door, repelled him, and he went on to the next house. He
now turned down a green lane, between rows of thrifty trees, to a neat log-cabin, whose nicely-plastered
walls and the regular fence inclosing it testified to the thrift and good taste of the owner.
He knocked; all was still. Again, and thirsty as he was, he was on the point of leaving, when
he heard a step within. He waited; the door opened, and before him stood----Katrine!

She did not know him; but he had not forgotten that voluptuous figure nor those melting blue
eyes. He preferred his requests, looking through the doorway at the same time to make sure
that she had no protector. Katrine brought the stranger a gourd of water, and offered him a
chair. She did not see the baleful eyes he threw after her as she went about her household
duties. Stolzen had dropped from her firmament like a fallen and forgotten star. Secure in
her unsuspecting innocence, she chirruped to her baby and resumed her sewing.

That evening, when Carl Proch returned from his field, after his usual hard day's labor, he
found his wife on the floor, sobbing, speechless, and the child, unnoticed, crying in his cradle.
His dog sat by the hearth with a look of almost intelligent sympathy, and whined as his master
entered the room. He raised Katrine and held her in his arms like a child, covered her face
with kisses, and implored her to speak. She seemed to be in a fearful dream, and shrunk from
some imagined danger in the extremest terror. Gradually her sobs became less frequent, her
tremors ceased, and she smiled upon the manly face that met hers, as though she had only suffered
from an imaginary fright. But when she felt her hair floating upon her shoulders, saw the almost
speaking face of the dog, Bruno, and became conscious of the cries of the neglected child,
the wave of agony swept over her again, and she could utter only broken ejaculations. As word
after word came from her lips, the unhappy husband's flesh tingled; his hair stiffened with
horror; every nerve seemed to be strung with a new and maddening tension. There was for him
no such thing as fatigue, no distance, no danger,--no law, no hereafter, no God. All thought
and feeling were drowned in one wild desire for vengeance,--vengeance swift, terrible, and final.

He first caressed the dog as though he had been a brother; he put his arms about the shaggy
neck, and shook each faithful paw; he made his wife caress him also. "God be praised, dear
Katrine, for your protector, the dog!" said he. "Come, now, Bruno!"

Katrine saw him depart with his dog and gun; but if she guessed his errand, she did not dare
remonstrate. He walked off rapidly,--the dog in advance, now and then baying as though he were
on a trail.

In the night he returned, and he smiled grimly as he set down the rifle in its accustomed corner.
His wife was waiting for him with intense anxiety. It was marvellous to her that he was so
cheerful. He trotted her upon his knee, pressed her a hundred times to his bosom, kissed her
forehead, lips, and cheeks, called her his pretty Kate, his dear wife, and every endearing
name he knew. So they sat, like lovers in their teens, till the purpling east told of a new day.

The luggage of one Stolzen, a stagecoach passenger, remained at the tavern uncalled-for, for
nearly a year. No one knew the man, and his disappearance, though a profound mystery, was not
an uncommon thing in a new country. The Hebrew broker in New York received no answers to his
letters, though he had carefully preserved the post-office address which Stolzen had given
him. He began to fear lest he should be obliged to fulfil the duty of heirship to the property
deposited with him. To quiet his natural apprehensions in view of this event, he determined
to follow Stolzen's track, as much of it as lay in this world, at least, and find out what
had become of him. Upon arriving in the neighborhood, the Jew had a thorough search made. The
country was scoured, and on the third day there was a discovery. A man walking on the sandy
margin of a river, about two or three miles from Carl's house, saw a skull before him. As the
steep bluff nearly overhung the spot where he stood, he conjectured that the body to which
the skull belonged was to be found above on its verge. He climbed up, and there saw a headless
skeleton. It was the body of Stolzen, as his memorandum-book and other articles showed. His
pistol was in his pocket, and still loaded; that fact precluded the idea of suicide. Moreover,
upon examining more closely, a bullet-hole was found in his breast-bone, around which the parts
were broken outwardly, showing that the ball must have entered from behind. It was clear that
Stolzen had been murdered.

The curse of Frau Proch had been most terribly fulfilled.

Circumstances soon pointed to Carl Proch as the perpetrator. A stranger, corresponding to the
deceased in size and dress, had been seen, about the time of his disappearance, by the neighboring
family, walking towards Proch's house; and on the evening of the same day an Irishman met Carl
going at a rapid rate, with a gun on his shoulder, as though in furious pursuit of some one.
A warrant for his arrest was issued, and he was lodged in jail to await his trial. If now the
Hebrew had followed the lex talionis, after the manner of his race in ancient times, it might
have fared badly with poor Carl. But as soon as the broker was satisfied beyond a peradventure
that the depositor was actually dead, he hastened back to New York, joyful as a crow over a
newly-found carcass, to administer upon the estate, leaving the law to take its own course
with regard to the murderer.

Beyond the two facts just mentioned as implicating Carl, nothing was proved at the trial. Jameson,
the lawyer, whom I mentioned at the beginning of this story, was engaged for the defence. He
found Carl singularly uncommunicative; and though the government failed to make out a shadow
of a case against his client, he was yet puzzled in his own mind by Carl's silence, and his
real or assumed indifference. Katrine was in court with her child in her arms, watching the
proceedings with the closest attention; though she, as well as Carl, was unable to understand
any but the most familiar and colloquial English. The case was speedily decided; the few facts
presented to the jury appeared to have no necessary connection, and there was no known motive
for the deed. The jury unanimously acquitted Carl, and with his wife and boy he left the court-room.
The verdict was approved by the spectators, for no man in the neighborhood was more universally
loved and respected than Carl Proch.

Having paid Jameson his fee for his services, Carl was about to depart, when the lawyer's curiosity
could be restrained no longer, and he called his client back to the private room of his office.

"Carl," said he, "you look like a good fellow, above anything mean or wicked; but yet I don't
know what to make of you. Now you are entirely through with this scrape; you are acquitted;
and I want to know what is the meaning of it all. I will keep it secret from all your neighbors.
Did you kill Stolzen, or not?"

"Well, if I did," he answered, "can they do anything with me?"

"No," said Jameson.

"Not if I acknowledge?"

"No, you have been acquitted by a jury; and by our law a man can never be tried twice for the
same offence. You are safe, even if you should go into court and confess the deed."

"Well, then, I did kill him,--and I would again!"

For the moment, a fierce light gleamed upon the calm and kindly face. Then, feeling that his
answer would give a false view of the case, without the previous history of the parties, Carl
sat down and in his broken English told to his lawyer the story I have here attempted to record.
It was impossible to doubt a word of it; for the simplicity and pathos of the narrative were
above all art. Here was a simple case, which the boldest inventor of schemes to punish villany
would have been afraid to use. Its truth is the thing that most startles the mind accustomed
to deal with fictions.

We leave Carl to return to his farm with his wife, for whom he had suffered so much, and with
the hope that no further temptation may come to him in such a guise as almost to make murder
a virtue.

THE TELEGRAPH.

  Thou lonely Bay of Trinity,
    Ye bosky shores untrod,
  Lean, breathless, to the white-lipped sea
    And hear the voice of God!

  "Earth gray with age shall hear the strain
    Which o'er her childhood rolled;
  For her the morning stars again
    Shall sing their song of old.

  Oh, reverently and thankfully
    The mighty wonder own!
  The deaf can hear, the blind may see,
    The work is God's alone.

THE BIRDS OF THE GARDEN AND ORCHARD.

The singing-birds whose notes are familiar to us, in towns and villages and the suburbs of
the city, are found in the breeding-season only in these places, and are strangers to the deep
woods and solitary pastures. Most of our singing-birds follow in the wake of the pioneer of
the wilderness, and increase in numbers with the clearing and settlement of the country,--not,
probably, from any dependence on the protection of mankind, but on account of the increased
abundance of the insect food upon which they subsist, consequent upon the tilling of the ground.
It is well known that the labors of the husbandman cause an excessive multiplication of all
those species of insects whose larvae are cherished in the soil, and of all that infest the
orchard and garden. The farm is capable of supporting insects just in proportion to its capacity
for producing corn and fruit. Insects will multiply with their means of subsistence in and
upon the earth; and birds, if not destroyed by artificial methods, will increase in proportion
to the multiplication of those insects which constitute their principal food.

These considerations will sufficiently account for the fact, which often excites a little astonishment,
that more singing-birds are found in the suburbs of the city, and among the parks and gardens
of the city, than in the deep forest, where, even in the singing-season, the silence is sometimes
melancholy. It is still to be remarked, that the species which are thus familiar in their habits
do not include all the singing-birds, but they include all that are well known to the majority
of our people. These are the birds of the garden and orchard. There are many other species,
wild and solitary in their habits, which are delightful songsters in uncultivated regions remote
from the town. But even these are rare in the depths of the forest. They live on the edge of
the wood and in the half-wooded pasture.

The birds of the garden and orchard have been frequently described, and their habits are very
generally known; but in the usual descriptions little has been said of their powers and peculiarities
of song. In the present sketches, I have given particular attention to the vocal powers of
the different birds, and have endeavored to designate the parts which each one performs in
the grand hymn of Nature. I shall first introduce the Song-Sparrow, (Fringilla melodia,) a
little bird that is universally known and admired. The Song-Sparrow is the earliest visitant
and the latest resident of the vocal tenants of the field. He is plain in his vesture, undistinguished
from the female by any superiority of plumage, and comes forth in the spring and takes his
departure in the autumn in the same suit of russet and gray by which he is always recognized.

In March, before the violet has ventured to peep out from the southern knoll of the pasture
or the sunny brow of the hill, while the northern skies are liable to pour down at any hour
a storm of sleet and snow, the Song-Sparrow, beguiled by southern winds, has already made his
appearance, and, on still mornings, may be heard warbling his few merry notes, as if to make
the earliest announcement of his arrival. He is, therefore, the true harbinger of spring, and,
though not the sweetest songster of the woods, has the merit of bearing to man the earliest
tidings of the opening year, and of declaring the first vernal promises of Nature. As the notes
of those birds that sing only in the night come with a double charm to our ears, because they
are harmonized by silence and hallowed by the hour that is sacred to repose--in like manner
does the Song-Sparrow delight us in tenfold measure, because he sings the sweet prelude to
the universal hymn of Nature.

His haunts are the pastures which have been half reduced to tillage, and are still partially
filled with wild shrubbery; for he is not so familiar in his habits as the Hair-bird, that
comes close up to our door-step, to find the crumbs that are swept from our tables. Though
his voice is constantly heard in the garden and orchard, he selects a more retired spot for
his nest, preferring not to trust his progeny to the doubtful mercy of the lords of creation.
In some secure retreat, under a tussock of herbage or a tuft of shrubbery, the female sits
upon her nest of soft dry grass, containing four or five eggs, of a greenish white ground,
almost entirely covered with brownish specks. Commencing in April, she rears three broods of
young during the season, and her mate prolongs his notes until the last brood has flown from
the nest.

The notes of the Song-Sparrow would not entitle him to be ranked among our principal singing-birds,
were it not for the remarkable variations of his song, in which respect he is equalled, I think,
by no other bird. Of these variations there are seven or eight which may be distinctly recognized,
and differing enough to be considered separate tunes. The bird does not warble these in regular
succession; he is in the habit of repeating one several times, and then leaves it, and repeats
another in a similar manner. Mr. Paine[1] took note, on one occasion, of the number of times
a Song-Sparrow sang each of the tunes, and the order of singing them. Of the tunes, as he had
numbered them, the bird "sang No. 1, 27 times; No. 2, 36 times; No. 3, 23 times; No. 4, 19
times; No. 5, 21 times; No. 6, 32 times; No. 7, 18 times. Perhaps next he would sing No. 2,
then perhaps No. 4, or 5, and so on." Mr. Paine adds, "Some males will sing each tune about
fifty times, though seldom; some will only sing them from five to ten times. But as far as
I have observed, each male has his seven songs. I have applied the rule to as many as a dozen
different birds, and the result has been the same."

An individual will sometimes, for half a day, confine himself almost entirely to a few of these
variations; but he will commonly sing each one more or less in the course of the day. I have
observed also, that, when one principal singer takes up a particular tune, other birds in the
vicinity will unite in the same. The several variations are mostly in triple time, a few in
common time, and there is an occasional blending of both in the same tune, which consists usually
of four bars or strains, sometimes five, though the song is frequently broken off at the end
of the third strain. This habit of varying his notes through so many permutations, and the
singularly fine intonations of many of them, entitle the Song-Sparrow to a very high rank as
a singing-bird.

There is a manifest difference in the expression of these several tunes. The one which I have
marked as No. 3 is particularly plaintive, and is usually in common time. No. 2 is the one
which I think is most frequently sung. No. 5 is querulous and entirely unmusical. There is
a remarkable precision in the song of this bird, and the finest singers are those which, in
the language of musicians, have the least execution. There are some individuals that blend
their notes together so promiscuously, and use so many flourishes, that it is difficult to
identify their song, or to perceive its expression. Whether these tunes of the Song-Sparrow
express to his mate, or to others of his species, different sentiments, and convey different
messages, or whether the bird adopts them for his own amusement, I have not been able to determine.
Neither have I learned whether a certain hour of the day or a certain state of the weather
predisposes him to sing a particular tune. This point may, perhaps, be determined by some future
observer; and it may be ascertained that the birds of this species have their matins and their
vespers, their songs of rejoicing and of complaining, of courtship when in presence of their
mate, and of encouragement and solace when she is sitting upon her nest. As Nature has a benevolent
and a definite object in every instinct which she has established among her creatures, it is
not probable that this habit of the Song-Sparrow is the mere result of accident. All the variations
of his song are given, with the specimens, at the end of this article, and, though individuals
differ in their singing, the notes will afford the reader a good general idea of the several tunes.

Soon after the arrival of the Song-Sparrow, when the spring-flowers have begun to be conspicuous
in the meadow, we are greeted by the more fervent and lengthened notes of the Vesper-bird,
(Fringilla graminea,) poured out with a peculiarly pensive modulation. This species closely
resembles the former, but may be distinguished from it, when on the wing, by two white lateral
feathers in the tail. The chirp of the Song-Sparrow is also louder, and pitched on a lower
key, than that of the present species. By careless observers, these two Finches, on account
of the similarity in their general appearance and habits, are considered identical. The Vesper-bird,
however, is the least familiar of the two, and, when both are singing at the same time, will
be found to occupy a position more remote from the house than the other. In several localities,
these two species are distinguished by the names of Bush-Sparrow and Ground-Sparrow, from their
supposed different habits of placing their nests, one in a bush and the other on the ground.
But they do not in fact differ in this respect, as each species occasionally builds in both ways.

