    "We went to see the New Exchange, which is not far from the
    place of the Common Garden, in the great street called the
    Strand. The building has a facade of stone, built after the
    Gothic style, which has lost its colour from age, and is
    becoming blackish. It contains two long and double galleries,
    one above the other, in which are distributed several rows great
    numbers of very rich shops, of drapers and mercers, filled with
    goods of every kind, and with manufactures of the most beautiful
    description. There are, for the most part, under the care of
    well-dressed women, who are busily employed in work, although
    many are served by young men, called apprentices."

The Bedford Coffee House, Covent Garden.--In 1763 appeared a small volume under the title of
Memoirs of the Bedford Coffee House, by Genius, dedicated to the most Impudent Man alive.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGINAL LETTER OF PETER LE NEVE.

The following was a letter from Le Neve to a Mr. Admall, a herald painter at Wakefield, found
in a book of arms belonging to the latter, which came into my possession a few months ago.

E. HAILSTONE.

    "Mr. Admall,

    "I understand by Mr. Mangay, my deputy at Leeds for the West
    Riding, that you contemn my lawfull autority of Norroy King of
    Arms, and have done and will doe as you say, things relating to
    heraldry, contrary to my prohibition, &c.; these are therefore
    to acquaint you, that if you continue in the same mind and will
    usurp on my office, I intend to make you sensible of the wrong
    you doe me in my office, by taking out process against you, and
    making you pay for your transgression. I shall give you no hard
    words, but shal be as good as my word if there is law in England
    to restrain you; so chose whether you will due to me good or
    evill; you shall find me according your friend or open enemy.

    "PETER LA NEVE, Norroy.

    "College of Arms, in London,

    "28th May, 1719."

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Superstitions of the Midland Counties.--It is believed a sign of "bad luck" to meet a white
horse, unless the person spits at it, which action is said to avert the ill consequences of
the recontre.

A rainy Friday is believed to be followed as a natural and invariable consequence, by a wet
Sunday; but I am not aware that the contrary is believed, viz., that fine Friday produces a
fine Sunday.

If the fire burns brightly when a person has poked or stirred it up, it is a sign that the
absent lover, wife, or husband (as the case may be) is in good spirits, and in good humour.

The itching of the right hand palm is said to portend the reception of a gift; which is rendered
more certain if the advice in this distich be followed:--

  "Rub it 'gainst wood,
  'Tis sure to come good."

Persons with much hair or down upon their arms and hands, will at some future period enjoy
great wealth; or as the common expression has it, "are born to be rich."

HENRY KERSLEY.

Corp. Chris. Hall, Maidstone.

A Rainbow in the Morning, &c.--"Mr. THOMS" (No. 26, p. 413.) says that he believes no one has
remarked the philosophy of this proverbial rhyme. Sir Humphry Davy, however, points it out
in his Salmonia.

       *       *       *       *       *

ERROR IN JOHNSON'S LIFE OF SELDEN.

In Johnson's (Geo. W.) Memoirs of John Selden, London, 1635, 8vo. pp. 128, 129, is a notice
of Dr. Sibthorpe's celebrated Sermon preached at Northampton, and printed in 1627 with the
title of Apostolike Obedience. After stating the difficult experienced in obtaining the necessary
sanction for its publication, owing to Abp. Abbot refusing the requisite imprimatur, the author
says that ultimately the licence was "signed by Land himself, and published under the title
of Apostolical Obedience." A reference at the foot of the page to "Rushworth, p. 444," leads
me to conclude that it is on his authority Mr. Johnson has made this statement; but not having
access to the "Historical Collections," I am unable to examine. At any rate, Heylin, in his
Cyprianus Anglicus, Lond., 1671 fol. p. 159., may be understood to imply the correctness of
the assertion.

A copy of this now rare sermon before me {452} proves, however, that the statement is incorrect.
At the back of the title is as follows:--

    "I have read over this sermon upon Rom. xiii. 7., preached at
    Northampton, at the assises for the county, Feb. 22, 1626,
    by Robert Synthorpe, Doctor of Divinity, Vicar of Brackley,
    and I doe approve it as a sermon learnedly and discreetly
    preached, and agreeable to the ancient Doctrine of the
    Primitive Church, both for Faith and good manners, and to
    the Doctrine established in the Church of England, and,
    therefore, under my hand I give authority for the printing of
    it, May 8. 1627."

    GEO. LONDON.

It was therefore Bishop Mountague, and not Laud, who licensed the sermon.

JOHN. J. DREDGE.

       *       *       *       *       *

POPE AND PETRONIUS.

I have read "Mr. RICH'S" letter with great interest, and I willingly allow that he has combated
my charge of plagiarism against Pope, and discussed the subject generally with equal fairness
and ability. Now the question, in my opinion, turns not so much on what Petronius said, as
on what Pope read; i.e. not on the meaning that Petronius gave to the word (corcillum), but
on that which Pope attributed to it. I cannot, without further proof, give him credit for having
read the words as critically and correctly as "Mr. R." has done. I believe that he looked on
it merely as a simple derivative of cor, and therefore rendered it "worth," i.e. a moral, not
a mental quality.

C. FORBES.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

QUERIES RESPECTING PURVEY ON THE APOCALYPSE, AND BONNER ON THE SEVEN SACRAMENTS.

I beg leave to make the two following Queries:--

1. In Bayle's very useful work, Scriptorum Illustrium Majoris Brytanniæ Catalogus, fol. Bas.
1559, among the writings ascribed to John Purvey, one of Wycliffe's followers, and (as Walden
styles him) Glossator, is mentioned Commentarius in Apocalypsin, beginning "Apocalypsis, quasi
diceret;" and Bayle adds:--

    "Prædictus in Apocalypsin Commentarius ex magistri Wielevi
    lectionibus publicis per Joannem Purvæum collectus, et nunc per
    Martinum Lutherum, Ante centum annos intitularus, anno Domini
    1528, sine authoris nomine, Witembergæ fuit excusus. Fuit et
    ipse Author in carcere, ac cathenis insuper chalybeis, cum ea
    Commentaria scripsit, ut ex decimo et undecimo ejus scripti
    capite apparet. Scripsit autem Purvæus hunc librum anno Domini
    1390, ut ex decimo tertio capite et principio vigesimi apparet."

This account of Bayle (who is mistaken, however, about the title of the work) is confirmed
by Panzer; who, in his Annales, vol. ix. p. 87. enters the volume thus, "Commentarius in Apolcalypsin
ante Centum Annos æditus, cum Præfatione Maritini Lutheri. Wittembergæ, 1528. 8vo." Can any
of your readers refer me to a copy of this book in a public library, or in private hands?

