Sparse.--As I am "less an antique Roman than a Dane," I wish to know what authority there is
for the use of this word, which is to be found in a leading article of The Times, January 8th,
1850?--"A sparse and hardy race of horsemen." I should like to see this among the Queries,
but I send it as a protest.

  "Hostis et Peregrinus unus et idem."

C. FORBES.

The word "Peruse."--I find the word Peruse employed as a substantive, and apparently as equivalent
to Examination, in the following part of a sentence in the martyr Fryth's works, Russell's
ed., p. 407.:--"He would have been full sore ashamed so to have overseen himself at Oxford,
at a peruse."

Can any of your correspondents cite a corresponding instance of its use, or say whether it
is still retained at Oxford as the name of any academic exercise?

H.W.

French Maxim.--Who is the author of the following French saying?--

    "L'hypocrisie est un hommage que le vice rend à la vertu."

R.V.

Ave Trici and Gheeze Ysenoudi.--If "S.W. SINGER" can give information as to what convent, English
or foreign, the sisters Ave Trici and Gheeze Ysenoudi, mentioned in his note on Otloh, state
themselves (or are assumed) to have belonged, he will much oblige, by doing so,

H.L.B.

A Latin Verse.--Everybody has seen the following quotation--

  "Tempora mutantur, nos et mutamur in illis,"

and everybody thinks he knows from whence it is taken. Which of your readers can verify it?

E.V.

Table-Book.--Can any of your readers refer me to a museum containing a specimen of an ancient
table-book? Douce had one, which was in Mr. Rodd's catalogue, but now sold; and Hone also possessed
one. These two, and another in the hands of a friend of mine, are the only specimens I have
heard of; but they are not quite as old or as genuine as one could wish.

J.O. HALLIWELL.

Origin of the name "Polly."--Will you allow me to ask how persons of my name came to be called
Polly?

MARY.

Tomlinson, of Southwingfield, Derbyshire.--The parochial register of the parish of Southwingfield,
in the county of Derby, contains, among its earliest entries (A.D. 1586), the name Tomlinson,
as then resident therein. The family, to the present time, continues to reside within the parish,
as respectable yeomen, and has thence extended itself to many of the neighbouring parishes,
as well as to more distinct localities. Blore's History of Southwingfield makes no mention
of such a family connected with the parish, as tenants or otherwise; nor does it appear that
there is at present any family of Tomlinson bearing arms that can have been derived from any
of the ancient lords of Wingfield. The wills at Lichfield, to whose registry Southwingfield
belongs, are in a very dilapidated and unsatisfactory state, at the time immediately preceding
the commencement of the Southwingfield parochial register. Probably some genealogist will be
enabled to offer a suggestion as to the means which are available for tracing the genealogy
of this fanily prior to the year 1586.

The Phrase "To have a Button in the Room," and "Sally."--I have again been reading that most
amusing book, The Lives of the Norths. At p. 88 of vol. i. (edit. 1826) there is a passage
which has always puzzled me. Speaking of some law proceedings in which the Lady Dacres was
concerned, Roger North says:--

    "And herein she served herself another way, for her adversary
    defamed her for swearing and unswearing, and it was not amiss to
    have a button in the room."

At p. 92. (post) there is another strange expression:-- {216}

    "The horse, when he found himself clear of pursuers, stopped his
    course by degrees, and went with his rider (fast asleep upon his
    back) into a pond to drink, and there sat his lordship upon the
    'sally.' (Qy. saddle?)"

P.C.S.S.

St. Philip and St. James.--"And near it was the house of the apostles Philip and James the
son of Alpheus."--Early Travels in Palestine (Mandeville), p. 175.; Bohn's Antiquarian Library.
This is the only place, except in the Church service, where I have seen the above-named apostles
coupled together, and have often wondered whether there was any old legend or tradition to
account for the Church joining them together in one commemorative festival.

A.H.E.

Sir William Hamilton.--On a tombstone in the burial-ground at St. Hilda's, South Shields, in
the county of Durham, is the following inscription:--

    "Here lieth interr'd ye body of Sir W. Hamilton Knt and Baronet
    sonne to ye Earle of Abercorne and late servant to Queen
    Henrietta Maria ye late Queene mother of our Soveraigne Lord
    King Charles that now is over England &c. who departed to ye
    mercy of God June 24th anno Domni 1681."

There is in the possession of an old lady living at Durham, in 1836, an original note in the
handwriting of King Charles the Second, of which the following is a copy:--

    "Whereas a debte of foure thousande one hundred and fifty pounds
    sterlinge apeares to be remayning dew by the king my father to
    Sir W. Hamilton brother to the Earle of Abercorne for the
    service done to the Queene my mother, I do hereby promis to pay
    ye sayde debte of 4150£. to ye sayde Sir William Hamilton his
    heires and assigns or to satisfie him or them to the valew
    thereof when it shall please God to restore me to the possession
    of my dominions.

    "Given at Brussells 28 Mar. 1630.

    "CHARLES REX."

Is any thing known of Sir William Hamilton, or of the services he rendered to Queen Henrietta
Maria?

A.H.E.

The Koran by Sterne.--Can you or any of your readers inform me if the work entitled The Koran,
printed in some editions of Sterne's writings, is a genuine composition of his, or not? If
not, who was its author, and what is its literary history? My reason for asking is, that I
have heard it asserted that it is not by Sterne.

E.L.N.

Devices on Standards of the Anglo-Saxons.--Can any of your readers inform me what devices were
borne on the standards of the several Anglo-Saxon kingdoms during the so-called Heptarchy?
The white horse is by many supposed to have been the standard of Wessex, and to have been borne
by Alfred; but was not this really the ensign of the Jutish kingdom of Kent, the county of
Kent to this day displaying the white horse in its armorial bearings? The standard of Wessex
is by others said to have been the white dragon; but Thierry supposes that this, like the contrasted
red dragon of Cymbri, was merely a poetical designation, and seems to infer that the flags
of these two contending people were without any device. Again, it has been thought that a lion
was the ensign of Northumbria; in which case we may, perhaps, conclude that the lions which
now grace the shield of the city of York have descended from Anglo-Saxon times. The memory
of the Danish standard of the Raven, described by Asser and other Anglo-Saxon chroniclers,
still remains; but whether, when Northumbria and East Anglia fell under Danish power, this
device supplanted previous Anglo-Saxon devices, is a curious question for antiquarian research.
The famous Norwegian standard--the Landeyda, or ravager of the world--under which Harold Hardrada
triumphed at Fulford, near York, but to fall a few days later at Stanford Bridge, is well known;
but who can inform us as to the device which it bore? These early traces of heraldic usage
appear to deserve more notice than I believe they have received. I incline to the opinion that
this practice has been limited to people of Indo-Germanic or Japetic race, and I shall be obliged
by any references in favour of or opposed to this view.

T.

Meaning of "Shipster."--Can any of your correspondents inform me what is the business or calling
or profession of a Shipster? The term occurs in a grant of an annuity of Oct. 19. 2 Henry VIII.,
1510, and made between "H.U., Gentilman, and Marie Fraunceys de Suthwerk, in com Surr Shipster."

JOHN R. FOX.

55. Welbeck Street, Jan. 22. 1850.

Why did Dr. Dee quit Manchester?--In the Penny Cyclopædia, art. DEE, JOHN, I find the following
statement:--

    "In 1595 the queen appointed Dee warden of Manchester College,
    he being then sixty-eight years of age. He resided there nine
    years; but from some cause not exactly known, he left it in
    1604, and returned to his house at Mortlake, where he spent the
    remainder of his days."

Can any of your correspondents assign the probable causes which led to Dr. Dee's resignation?

T.T.W.

Burnley, Lancashire, Jan. 21. 1850. {217}

Meaning of "Emerod," "Caredon."--In the Lansd. MS., British Museum, No. 70., there is a letter
from Mr. Richard Champernowne to Sir Robert Cecil, dated in 1592, referring to the discovery
of some articles pillaged from the Spanish carrack, which had then recently been captured and
taken into Dartmouth harbour. Amongst these articles is one thus described:--"An Emerod, made
in the form of a cross, three inches in length at the least, and of great breadth."

In the same volume of MSS. (art. 61.) there is the description of a dagger "with a hefte of
white Caredon."

From the size of the cross described, "Emerod" can scarcely be read "Emerald," as applied by
us to one of the precious stones.

Is "white Caredon" white cornelian?

Can any of your numerous correspondents give me a note in answer to the above queries?

D.

46. Parliament Street, Westminster, Jan. 25. 1850.

Microscope, and Treatise upon it.--I am about to commence the study of the microscope. I want
to know where I can purchase the most perfect instrument, and also the best Treatise upon it;
this information will indeed be valuable to me, as it would enable me to go at once to the
best sources without loss of time.

R.M. JONES.

Chelsea, Jan. 2. 1850.

Old Auster Tenements.--"W.P.P." wishes to know the meaning of the expression "Old Auster Tenements,"
by which certain lands in the parish of North Curry, Somerset, are described in Deeds and Court
Rolls.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES

THE FIELD OF FORTY FOOTSTEPS.

The fields behind Montague House were, from about the year 1680, until towards the end of the
last century, the scenes of robbery, murder, and every species of depravity and wickedness
of which the heart can think. They appear to have been originally called the Long Fields, and
afterwards (about Strype's time) the Southampton Fields. These fields remained waste and useless,
with the exception of some nursery grounds near the New Road to the north, and a piece of ground
enclosed for the Toxophilite Society, towards the northwest, near the back of Gower Street.
The remainder was the resort of depraved wretches, whose amusements consisted chiefly in fighting
pitched battles, and other disorderly sport, especially on the Sabbath day. Such was their
state in 1800.

Tradition had given to the superstitious at that period a legendary story of the period of
the Duke of Monmouth's Rebellion, of two brothers who fought in this field so ferociously as
to destroy each other; since which, their footsteps, formed from the vengeful struggle, were
said to remain, with the indentations produced by their advancing and receding; nor could any
grass or vegetable ever be produced where these forty footsteps were thus displayed. This extraordinary
arena was said to be at the extreme termination of the northeast end of Upper Montague Street;
and, profiting by the fiction, Miss Porter and her sister produced an ingenious romance thereon,
entitled, Coming Out, or the Forty Footsteps. The Messrs. Mayhew also, some twenty years back,
brought out, at the Tottenham Street Theatre, an excellent melodrama piece, founded upon the
same story, entitled The Field of Forty Footsteps.

In 1792, an ingenious and enterprising architect, James Burton, began to erect a number of
houses on the Foundling Hospital estate, partly in St. Giles's and Bloomsbury parishes, and
partly in that of St. Pancras. Baltimore House, built, towards the northeast of Bedford House,
by Lord Baltimore, in 1763, appears to have been the only erection since Strype's survey to
this period, with the exception of a chimney-sweeper's cottage still further north, and part
of which is still to be seen in Rhodes's Mews, Little Guildford Street. In 1800, Bedford House
was demolished entirely; which with its offices and gardens, had been the site where the noble
family of the Southamptons, and the illustrious Russells, had resided during more than 200
years, almost isolated. Hence commenced the formation of a fine uniform street, Bedford Place,
consisting of forty houses, on the spot; also, the north side of Bloomsbury Square, Montague
Street to the west, and one side of Southampton Row to the east. Towards the north, the extensive
piece of waste ground, denominated the Southampton Fields, was transformed into a magnificent
square, with streets diverging therefrom in various directions. Thus, as if by "touch of magic
wand," those scenes, which had been "hideous" for centuries, became transformed into receptacles
of civil life and polished society.

The latest account of these footsteps, previous to their being built over, with which I am
acquainted, is the following, extracted from one of Joseph Moser's Common-place Books in my
possession:--

    "June 16. 1800.--Went into the fields at the back of Montague
    House, and there saw, for the last time, the forty footsteps;
    the building materials are there ready to cover them from the
    sight of man. I counted more than forty, but they might be the
    foot-prints of the workmen."

This extract is valuable, as it establishes the period of the final demolition of the footsteps,
and also confirms the legend that forty was the original number.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       * {218}

QUERIES ANSWERED, NO. 4.--"POKERSHIP", BY BOLTON CORNEY.

A query made by so experienced a writer as the noble historian of Audley End, cannot admit
of an easy solution; and instead of professing to answer the two-fold query on pokership, it
might more become me to style this note an attempt to answer it.

In the Historical collections of the noble families of Cavendishe, etc. the passage which contains
the doubtful word is printed thus:--

    "He [Sir Robert Harley, of Bramton, Herefordshire] was in the
    next year [1604], on the 16th of July, made forester of
    Boringwood, alias Bringwood forest, in com. Hereford, with the
    office of pokership, and custody of the forest or chace of
    Prestwood, for life."

Are we to read parkership or pokership? If pokership, what is its meaning?

Skelton, the rhymer, has parker for park-keeper, so that parkership is an admissable word;
but I reject it on this occasion, as inapplicable to a forest or chace. I incline to believe
that pokership is the true lection. Poke denoted a purse; witness Chaucer:--

  "Gerveis answered; Certes, were it gold,
  Or in a poke nobles all untold,
  Thou shuldest it have."--C.T. v. 3777.

We do not find poker in Barret or Cotgrave; but if poke denoted a purse, poker might denote
a purse-bearer or treasurer, and pokership, the office of purse-bearer. So we have BURSA, [Glossarivm
manvale, 1772. I. 849.] bursar, bursarship, etc.

BOLTON CORNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

MERTENS, MARTINS, OR MARTINI, THE PRINTER.

A correspondent, "W.," in No. 12. p. 185., wishes to learn "the real surname of Theodoric Mertens,
Martins, or Martini, the printer of Louvain."

In Latin the name is written Theodoricus Martinus; in French, Thierri Martin; in Flemish, Diedrych
Meertens, and occasionally, but I think incorrectly, Dierix Martens.

In a side chapel of the chancel of the church at Alost, midway between Brussels and Ghent,
is the printer's tomb, and a double inscription, in Latin and in Flemish, commemorates his
celebrity and the dates of his birth and death; in the Latin inscription the name is Theodoricus
Martinus; in the Flemish, which is very old and nearly effaced, it is Diedrych Meertens.

The name of Meertens, as a surname, is as common in Brabant and Flanders as that of Martin with us.

A.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

I beg to say that, in Peignot's Dictionnaire raisonné de Bibliologie, the name of the printer
Mertens is given as "Martens, Mertens, ou Martin d'Alost (Thierry), en Latin Theodoricus Martinus."
The article is too long for insertion in your pages, but it contains an account of the title-page
of one of his editions, in 4to., in which the name is spelt Mertens:--"Theo. Mertens impressore."
Two other title-pages have "Apud Theod. Martinum." So it appears that the printer himself used
different modes of spelling his own name.

HERMES.

       *       *       *       *       *

ETYMOLOGY OF ARMAGH.

In reply to the inquiry of "D.S.Y." (p. 158. of your 10th number), I beg to say that the name
of Armagh is written, in Irish, Ardmacha, and signifies the Height (or high ground) of Macha.
It is supposed to have derived this name from Macha Mong-ruadh [i.e. Macha of the red hair],
who was queen of Ireland, according to the Chronology of O'Flaherty, A.M. 3603.

I.H.T.

Dublin, Jan. 5. 1850.

Sir,--There are the following authorities for different derivations of the word Armagh.

Camden, in his Britannia, says:--

    "Armach ab Amarchâ reginâ; sic dictum fabulantur Hibernici; at
    mihi eadem esse videtur quam Dearmach vocat Beda: et Roborum
    Campum ex lingua Scotica sive Hibernica interpretatur, ubi
    circa annum salutis DLX. monaterium extruxit celeberrimum
    Columbanus."

Dr. Keating's Hist. of Ireland has as follows:--

    "Macha the wife of Nemedius died before her son Ainnim ...
    from her Ardmagh received its name, because she was buried in
    that place."

Circles of Gomer (London, 1771), contains as follows:--

    "Ar, and Ararat.--The Earth, country, or upon and on the earth
    ... Armagh on the surrounding water confines."

M. Bullet, Mémoires de la Langue Celtique, writes thus:--

    "Armagh, Une des plus anciennes villes d'Irland. Ar, article.
    Mag, ville."--vol. i.

But the 2nd and 3rd vols. of these Mémoires, which contain the Celtic Dictionary, afford a
more probable interpretation:--

    "Ar or Ard signifies a height, mountain, hill, {219}
    elevation, the highest, noble, chief, &c. &c., and Ar in
    Hebrew, Chaldean, and Armenian, has the same meaning. Magh is
    a field, a plain, ground, &c., as well as a town, dwelling, &c."

Now, the topographical description of the county of Armarh is that it is hilly, and the hills
(not very high) are of granite rock. The town of Armagh again is described as situated on an
eminence. I suggest, therefore, the high field or ground, or the field of the Hill, or the
dwelling or town of the Hill, as very natural derivations.

If your correspondent prefers it, Ar bears also the signification of rock, and M. Bullet says:--

    "Ce terme nous a été conservé dans la Vie de Saint Colomb."

Who knows, therefore, whether in building the monastery alluded to by Camden, he may not have
given it the name of

  The dwelling of the Rock?

The Celtic language affords many other possibilities, but an accurate knowledge of the locality
is requisite in judging of their probablility.

HERMES.

The etymology of Armagh, in Ireland, is very simple. Ard, high, great, noble, a purely Celtic
root, found in many languages. Latin, Arduus, high, &c. Welsh, hardh, fair, handsome, &c. Magh,
a plain, a level tract of land, a field. Ardmugh, the great plain. Others derive it from Eamhuin-magh,
from the regal residence of the kings of Ulster, that stood in its vicinity; but the former
is considered by those best capable of judging as the most correct. The original name was Druim-sailech,
"the hill of sallows," which was changed to Ard-sailech, "the height of sallows," and then
again to Ardmagh. Although now spelt Armagh, it was formerly more correctly written Ardmagh,
which is undoubtedly the proper way.

HIBERNICUS

Jan. 8. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OFFICE OF THE MASTER OF THE REVELS.

Your esteemed correspondent, "J.G.N.," asks (p. 158.) for the meaning of the letters "C.K.M.R."
and "T.S." appended to the passage he quotes from the Common-place Book of Charles, Duke of
Dorset. I think I can tell him. "C.K.M.R." stands for Charles Killegrew, Master of the Revells;
and "T.S." means Thomas Skipwith, one of the patentees of Drury Lane Theatre, who died in 1710.
Sir Henry Herbert died in 1673; and his successor in the office was Thomas Killegrew. This
person had previously been Sir Henry's deputy; and I am in possession of a curious list of
MS. instructions, "the heads of what I gave to Mr. Thos. Killegrew the 29th of March, 1664,"
in the hand-writing of Sir Henry Herbert. Thomas Killegrew died in 1683, and was succeeded
by Charles Killegrew; the degree of the relationship between the two Killegrews I do not know;
and in the London Gazette, Dec. 7. 1685, there is a notice commanding all "rope-dancers, prize-players,
strollers and other persons showing motions and other sights, to have licenses from Charles
Killegrew, Esq., Master of the Revells."

Charles Killegrew was one of the managers of Drury Lane Theatre at the time of the union of
the King's and Duke of York's servants; and Drydaen calls him, in the Dedication to his translation
of Juvenal's Satires, his "ingenious friend."

Upon the death of the latter, in 1725, Charles Henry Lee succeeded to the vacant office; who,
dying in 1744, Solomon Dayrolle was appointed in his room. I do not know the date of the decease
of the last-named gentleman; but with him, I believe, died the office of the Master of the
Revells. The ancient jurisdiction of the Master of the Revells has been transferred, by 1737,
by legal authority, to a "licenser of the stage," who, in conjunction with a deputy licenser,
performed all the functions of the ancient office.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

The Red Maids of Bristol.--The answer to the query of "MR. A. GRIFFENHOOF" (No. 12. p. 184.),
why the "Red Maids" in Bristol are so called, is, because they are dressed in bright scarlet
gowns. They are the incumbents of a benevolent school, founded in 1627, by one of Bristol's
great benefactors, Alderman Whitson, of pious memory, for the maintenance and education of
40 girls, which number has now increased to 120. Your correspondent's curiousity respecting
their name might be fully satisfied, and his interest increased, if he should happen to be
in Bristol on some sunny afternoon in the later part of May, or the beginning of June, by a
sight of this bright "regiment of women"--the gay colour of their gowns subdued by the quaintness
of their fashion, and the clean whiteness of their aprons, collars, &c.--proceeding, in double
file, towards the downs, for air and recreation. An account of their foundation may be found
in Barret's Hist. of Bristol, p. 415. "Blue-Boys," so called for a similar reason, are a parallel
case of much more general occurance. Yours, &c.

RUFA.

