4. To use an outline or a brief which suggests the headings in logical order.

5. To speak without manuscript or notes.

Reading the Speech. The first of these methods--to read the speech from a prepared manuscript--really
changes the speech to a lecture or reading. True, it prevents the author from saying anything
he would not say in careful consideration of his topic. It assures him of getting in all he
wants to say. It gives the impression that all his utterances are the result of calm, collected
thinking. On the other hand, so few people can read from a manuscript convincingly that the
reproduction is likely to be a dull, lifeless proceeding in which almost anything might be
said, so little does the material impress the audience. This method can hardly be considered
speech-making at all.

Memorizing the Speech. The second method--of repeating memorized compositions--is better. It
at least seems alive. It has an appearance of direct address. It possesses the other advantages
of the first method--definite reasoning and careful construction. But its dangers are grave.
Few people can recite memorized passages with the personal appeal and direct significance that
effective spoken discourse should have. Emphasis is lacking. Variety is absent. The tone becomes
monotonous. The speech is so well committed that it flows too easily. If several speakers follow
various methods, almost any listener can unerringly pick the memorized efforts. Let the speaker
in delivery strive for variety, pauses, emphasis; let him be actor enough to simulate the feeling
of spontaneous composition as he talks, yet no matter how successful he may be in his attempts
there will still be slight inconsistencies, trifling incongruities, which will disturb a listener
even if he cannot describe his mental reaction. The secret lies in the fact that written and
spoken composition differ in certain details which are present in each form in spite of the
utmost care to weed them out.

Memorizing Parts. The third manner can be made effective if the speaker can make the gap just
described between written and spoken discourse extremely narrow. If not, his speech will appear
just what it is--an incongruous patchwork of carefully prepared, reconsidered writing, and
more or less spontaneously evolved speaking.

Speaking from Outline or Brief. The fourth method is by far the best for students training
themselves to become public speakers. After a time the brief or outline can be retained in
the mind, and the speaker passes from this method to the next. A brief for an important law
case in the United States Supreme Court is a long and elaborate instrument. But a student speaker's
brief or outline need not be long.

Directions, models, and exercises for constructing and using outlines will be given in a later
chapter.

The Best Method. The last method is unquestionably the best. Let a man so command all the aspects
of a subject that he fears no breakdown in his thoughts, let him be able to use language so
that he need never hesitate for the best expression, let him know the effect he wants to make
upon his audience, the time he has to do it in, and he will know by what approaches he can
best reach his important theme, what he may safely omit, what he must include, what he may
hurry over, what he must slowly unfold, what he may handle lightly, what he must treat seriously;
in short, he will make a great speech. This manner is the ideal towards which all students,
all speakers, should strive.

Attributes of the Speaker. Attributes of the speaker himself will aid or mar his speech. Among
those which help are sincerity, earnestness, simplicity, fairness, self-control, sense of humor,
sympathy. All great speakers have possessed these traits. Reports upon significant speakers
describing their manner emphasize them. John Bright, the famous English parliamentarian of
the middle of the last century, is described as follows:

    His style of speaking was exactly what a conventional
    demagogue's ought not to be. It was pure to austerity; it was
    stripped of all superfluous ornament. It never gushed or
    foamed. It never allowed itself to be mastered by passion.
    The first peculiarity that struck the listener was its superb
    self-restraint. The orator at his most powerful passages
    appeared as if he were rather keeping in his strength than
    taxing it with effort.

    JUSTIN MCCARTHY: History of Our Own Time

In American history the greatest speeches were made by Abraham Lincoln. In Cooper Union, New
York, he made in 1860 the most powerful speech against the slave power. The New York Tribune
the next day printed this description of his manner.

Mr. Lincoln is one of nature's orators, using his rare powers solely to elucidate and convince,
though their inevitable effect is to delight and electrify as well. We present herewith a very
full and accurate report of this speech; yet the tones, the gestures, the kindling eye, and
the mirth-provoking look defy the reporter's skill. The vast assemblage frequently rang with
cheers and shouts of applause, which were prolonged and intensified at the close. No man ever
before made such an impression on his first appeal to a New York audience.

Shakespeare's Advice. Some of the best advice for speakers was written by Shakespeare as long
ago as just after 1600, and although it was intended primarily for actors, its precepts are
just as applicable to almost any kind of delivered discourse. Every sentence of it is full
of significance for a student of speaking. Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, is airing his opinions
about the proper manner of speaking upon the stage. That's villainous, and shows a most pitiful
ambition in the fool that uses it. Go make you ready.

EXERCISES

1. 'Neath our feet broke the brittle bright stubble like chaff.

2. The first sip of love is pleasant; the second, perilous; the third, pestilent.

3. Our ardors are ordered by our enthusiasms.

4. She's positively sick of seeing her soiled, silk, Sunday dress.

5. The rough cough and hiccough plowed me through.

6. She stood at the gate welcoming him in.

7. Five miles meandering with a mazy motion.

8.

9. Theophilus Thistle, the thistle-sifter, sifted a sieve of unsifted thistles.

10. Alone, alone, all, all alone,
      Alone on a wide, wide sea!

11. The splendor falls on castle walls,
      And snowy summits old in story.

12.

13. The moan of doves in immemorial elms,
    And murmurings of innumerable bees.

14. The Ladies' Aid ladies were talking about a conversation they had overheard, before the
meeting, between a man and his wife.

"They must have been at the Zoo," said Mrs. A.; "because I heard her mention 'a trained deer.'"

"Goodness me!" laughed Mrs. B. "What queer hearing you must have! They were talking about going
away, and she said, 'Find out about the train, dear.'"

"Well, did anybody ever!" exclaimed Mrs. C. "I am sure they were talking about musicians, for
she said, 'a trained ear,' as distinctly as could be."

The discussion began to warm up, and in the midst of it the lady herself appeared. They carried
the case to her promptly, and asked for a settlement.

"Well, well, you do beat all!" she exclaimed, after hearing each one. "I'd been out in the
country overnight and was asking my husband if it rained here last night."

15. Learning condemns beyond the reach of hope
    The careless lips that speak of s[)o]ap for soap;
    Her edict exiles from her fair abode
    The clownish voice that utters r[)o]ad for road;
    Less stern to him who calls his coat a c[)o]at,
    And steers his boat believing it a b[)o]at.
    She pardoned one, our classic city's boast,
    Who said at Cambridge, m[)o]st instead of most,
    But knit her brows and stamped her angry foot
    To hear a Teacher call a root a r[)o]ot.

16.

17.

18.   Sister Susie's sewing shirts for soldiers,
    Such skill at sewing shirts our shy young
              Sister Susie shows.
        Some soldiers send epistles
        Say they'd rather sleep in thistles
    Than the saucy, soft, short shirts for soldiers
              Sister Susie sews.

CHAPTER III

WORDS AND SENTENCES

Vocabularies. The collection of words a person can command either in use or understanding is
a vocabulary. Every person has three distinct ones: his reading vocabulary, his writing vocabulary,
his speaking vocabulary. Of these, the reading vocabulary is the largest. There are thousands
of words he recognizes in reading and although he might not be able to construct a dictionary
definition for everyone, he has a sufficiently clear idea to grasp the meaning. In this rude
approximation to sense he is aided by the context, but for all practical purposes he understands
the word. If he were writing, carefully taking time to note exactly what he was expressing,
he might recall that word and so consciously put it into a sentence. He might use it in exactly
the same sense in which he had seen it in print. But never in the rush of ideas and words in
spoken discourse would he risk using a word he knew so slightly. If nothing more, he would
beware of mispronunciation.

Thus a person could easily deduce from his reading that a hangar is a building to house airplanes.
He might--to avoid repeating the word shed too frequently--use it in writing. But until he
was absolutely certain of its significance and its sound he would hardly venture to say it
to other men.

Spoken discourse is so alive, it moves so rapidly, that it is never so precise, so varied in
its choice of words, as written material. The phraseology of written discourse sounds slightly
or markedly stilted, bookish, if repeated by the tongue. This difference--though it may appear
almost trifling--is apparent to everyone. Its recognition can be partly illustrated by the
fact that after President Lowell and Senator Lodge had debated on the topic, the League of
Nations, in Boston and were shown the reports of their speeches, each made changes in certain
expressions. The version for print and reading is a little more formal than the delivered sentences.
The Senator said, "I want" but preferred to write "I wish"; then he changed "has got to be"
into "must," and "nothing to see" into "nothing visible."

One might say that all three vocabularies should correspond, but there is no real need of this.
So long as people read they will meet thousands of words for which they have no need in speaking.
Everybody must be able to understand the masterpieces of the past with their archaic (old-fashioned)
words like eftsoons or halidom, but no one need use such expressions now. So there is no discredit
in the fact that one's speaking vocabulary is more restricted than his reading vocabulary.

New Ideas, New Words. It is true, however, that an educated person should never rest content
with the size of his usable speaking vocabulary. The addition of every new word is likely to
indicate the grasp of a new idea. Likewise, every new idea is almost certain to require its
individual terms for expression. An enlarging vocabulary is the outward and visible sign of
an inward and intellectual growth. No man's vocabulary can equal the size of a dictionary,
the latest of which in English is estimated to contain some 450,000 words. Life may be maintained
upon a surprisingly meager group of words, as travelers in foreign lands can testify. Shakespeare's
vocabulary is said to have included as many as 15,000 words. Figures for that of the average
person vary considerably.

Increasing the Vocabulary. The method of increasing a vocabulary is a quite simple process.
Its procedure is a fascinating exercise. It covers four steps. When a new word is encountered
it should be noticed with keen attention. If heard, its pronunciation will be fixed upon the
ear. If seen, its spelling should be mastered at once. The next step is to consult a dictionary
for either spelling or pronunciation. Then all its meanings should be examined. Still the word
is not yours until you have used it exactly. This you should do at the first opportunity. If
the opportunity seems long in coming make it for yourself by discussing with some one the topic
with which it was used or frankly discuss the word itself. How many unfamiliar words have you
heard or seen recently? How many do you easily use now in your own remarks? You might find
it a good plan to take a linguistic inventory every night. A little practice in this will produce
amazingly interesting and profitable results in both use and understanding. A keenness for
words will be rapidly developed. Word-lists of all kinds will take on entirely new meanings.
A spontaneous receptivity will develop into permanent retention of words and phrases.

EXERCISES

1. Tell of some new word you have added to your vocabulary recently. Explain when you met it,
how it happened to impress you, what you learned of it.

2. In studying a foreign language how did you fix in your mind the words which permanently
stuck there?

3. Look over a page in a dictionary. Report to the class on some interesting material you find.

4. Make a list of ten slang or technical expressions. Explain them in exact, clear language.

5. Find and bring to class a short printed passage, which because of the words, you cannot
understand. Unusual books, women's fashion magazines, technical journals, books of rules for
games, financial reports, contain good examples.

6. How much do you know about any of the following words?

chassis      fuselage   orthodox    sable comptometer  germicide  plebescite  self-determination
covenant     layman     purloin     soviet ethiopian    morale     querulous   vers libre farce
nectar     renegade    zoom

7. Comment on the words in the following extracts:

    "Of enchanting crimson brocade is the slipover blouse which
    follows the lines of the French cuirasse. Charmingly simple,
    this blouse, quite devoid of trimming, achieves smartness by
    concealing the waistline with five graceful folds."

    "The shift bid consists in bidding a suit, of which you have
    little or nothing, with the ultimate object of transferring
    later to another declaration, which is perfectly sound. The
    idea is to keep your adversaries from leading this suit up
    to your hand, which they will likely avoid doing, thinking
    that you are strong in it."

    "While sentiment is radically bearish on corn there is so
    little pressure on the market other than from shorts that a
    majority of traders are inclined to go slow in pressing the
    selling side on breaks until the situation becomes more
    clearly defined. The weekly forecast for cool weather is
    regarded as favorable for husking and shelling, and while
    there was evening up on the part of the pit operators for the
    double holiday, some of the larger local professionals went
    home short expecting a lower opening Tuesday."

8. Make a list of ten new words you have learned recently.

Suffixes and Prefixes. Definite steps for continuous additions can be mapped out and covered.
Careful attention to prefixes and suffixes will enlarge the vocabulary.

PREFIXES

1. a = on, in, at, to; abed, aboard, afield, afire

2. ab (a, abs) = from, away; absent, abstract, abdicate

3. ad, etc. = to, in addition to; adapt, admit, adduce

4. ante = before, anteroom, antebellum

5. anti = against, opposite; anticlimax, antipodes, antipathy

6. bi= two; bicycle, biennial, biped, biplane

7. circum = around, about; circumnavigate, circumscribe, circumvent

8. con (col, com, co, cor, etc.) = with, together; consent, collect, coördinate, composite,
conspiracy

9. contra (counter) = against; contradict, counteract, countermand

10. de = down, from, away; depose, desist, decapitate, denatured

11. demi, hemi, semi = half; demi-tasse, hemisphere, semiannual, semitransparent

12. di (dis) = twice, double; dissyllable

13. dis (di, dif) = apart, away, not; distract, diverge, diversion, disparage

14. en (em) = in, on, into; engrave, embody, embrace

15. extra = beyond; extraordinary, extravagant

16. hyper = above; hypercritical

17. in (il, im, ir) = in, into, not; inclose, illustrate, irrigate, inform, illiterate, impious,
irregular

18. ex (e, ec, ef) = out of, from, beyond, thoroughly, formerly but not now; exclude, excel,
ex-senator.

19. inter = between, among; intercede, interchange, interfere, interurban, interlude

20. mis = wrongly, badly; miscalculate, misspell, misadventure

21. mono = one; monoplane

22. per = through, thoroughly, by; perchance, perfect, per-adventure

23. poly = many; polygon, polytheism

24. post = behind, after; postgraduate, post-mortem, postlude, postscript, post-meridian (P.M.)

25. pre = before (in time, place, or order); preëminent, predict, prefer, prefix, prejudge,
prejudice

26. preter = beyond; preternatural

27. pro = before, forth, forward; proceed, prosecute

28. pro = siding with; pro-ally

29. re = back, again; recover, renew, recall

30. sub, etc. = under; submerge, subscribe, subterranean, subterfuge

31. super (sur) = over, above; superintend, supercargo

32. trans (tra) = across; translate, transmit, transfer

33. vice (vis) = instead of; vice-president, vice-admiral

SUFFIXES

1. ee, er = one who; absentee, profiteer, mower

2. ard, art= term of disparagement; drunkard, braggart

3. esque = like; statuesque

4. ism = state of being; barbarism, atheism

5. et, let = little; brooklet, bracelet, eaglet

6. ling = little, young; duckling, gosling

7. kin = little; lambkin, Peterkin

8. stead = a place; bedstead, homestead, instead

9. wright = a workman; wheelwright

Thesaurus. Besides frequently consulting a good modern dictionary a student speaker should
familiarize himself with a Thesaurus of words and phrases. This is a peculiarly useful compilation
of expressions according to their meaning relations. A dictionary lists words, then gives their
meanings. A Thesaurus arranges meanings, then gives the words that express those ideas. The
value of such a book can be best illustrated by explaining its use.

Suppose a speaker is going to attack some principle, some act, some party. He knows that his
main theme will be denunciation of something. In the index of a Thesaurus he looks under denunciation,
finding two numbers of paragraphs. Turning to the first he has under his eye a group of words
all expressing shades of this idea. There are further references to other related terms. Let
us look at the first group, taken from Roget's Thesaurus.

MALEDICTON, curse, imprecation, denunciation, execration, anathema, ban, proscription, excommunication,
commination, fulmination.

Cursing, scolding, railing, Billingsgate language.

V. To curse, accurse, imprecate, scold, rail, execrate.

To denounce, proscribe, excommunicate, fulminate.

Adj. Cursing, &c, cursed, &c.

THREAT, menace, defiance, abuse, commination, intimidation.

V. To threaten, menace, defy, fulminate; to intimidate.

Adj. Threatening, menacing, minatory, abusive.

The second reference leads us farther. It presents the expressions dealing with the methods
and results of denunciation, providing hundreds of words and phrases to use in various ways.
It does even more, for in a parallel column it gives a list of opposites for the words indicating
condemnation. This more than doubles its value. Finally having reached the word punishment
it lists its cognates until the idea penalty is reached, where it balances that idea with reward
and its synonyms. A portion of this section follows.

LAWSUIT, suit, action, cause, trial, litigation.

Denunciation, citation, arraignment, persecution, indictment, impeachment, apprehension, arrest,
committal, imprisonment.

Pleadings, writ, summons, plea, bill, affidavit, &c.

Verdict, sentence, judgment, finding, decree, arbitrament, adjudication, award.

V. To go to law; to take the law of; to appeal to the law; to join issue; file a bill, file
a claim.

To denounce, cite, apprehend, arraign, sue, prosecute, bring to trial, indict, attach, distrain,
to commit, give in charge or custody; throw into prison.

To try, hear a cause, sit in judgment.

To pronounce, find, judge, sentence, give judgment; bring in a verdict; doom, to arbitrate,
adjudicate, award, report.

ACQUITTAL, absolution, see Pardon, 918, clearance, discharge, release, reprieve, respite.

Exemption from punishment; impunity.

V. To acquit, absolve, clear, discharge, release, reprieve, respite.

Adj. Acquitted, &c.

Uncondemned, unpunished, unchastised.

CONDEMNATION, conviction, proscription; death warrant.

Attainder, attainment.

V. To condemn, convict, cast, find guilty, proscribe.

Adj. Condemnatory, &c.

PUNISHMENT, chastisement, castigation, correction, chastening, discipline, infliction, etc.

An observer will see at once just how far these lists go and what must supplement them. They
do not define, they do not discriminate, they do not restrict. They are miscellaneous collections.
A person must consult the dictionary or refer to some other authority to prevent error or embarrassment
in use. For instance, under the entry newspaper occurs the attractive word ephemeris. But one
should be careful of how and where he uses that word.

Another exercise which will aid in fixing both words and meanings in the mind and also help
in the power of recalling them for instant use is to make some kind of word-list according
to some principle or scheme. One plan might be to collect all the words dealing with the idea
of book. Another might be to take some obvious word root and then follow it and other roots
added to it through all its forms, meanings, and uses. One might choose tel (distant) and graph
(record) and start with telegraph. Telephone will introduce phone, phonograph; they will lead
on to dictaphone, dictagraph; the first half links with dictation; that may lead as far away
as dictatorial. In fact there is no limit to the extent, the interest, and the value of these
various exercises. The single aim of all of them should be, of course, the enlargement of the
speaking vocabulary. Mere curiosities, current slang, far-fetched metaphors, passing foreign
phrases, archaisms, obsolete and obsolescent terms, too new coinages, atrocities, should be
avoided as a plague.

Consistent, persistent, insistent word-study is of inestimable value to a speaker. And since
all people speak, it follows that it would benefit everybody.

EXERCISES

1. Explain what is meant by each entry in the foregoing list.

2. List some verbal curiosities you have met recently. Examples: "Mr. Have-it-your-own-way
is the best husband." "He shows a great deal of stick-to-it-iveness."

3. What should be the only condition for using foreign expressions? Can you show how foreign
words become naturalized? Cite some foreign words used in speech.

4. Are archaic (old-fashioned), obsolete (discarded), and obsolescent (rapidly disappearing)
terms more common in speech or books? Explain and illustrate.

Synonyms. As has already been suggested, a copious vocabulary must not be idle in a person's
equipment. He must be able to use it. He must be able to discriminate as to meaning. This power
of choosing the exact word results from a study of synonyms. It is a fact that no two words
mean exactly the same thing. No matter how nearly alike the two meanings may appear to be,
closer consideration will unfailingly show at least a slight difference of dignity, if nothing
more--as red and crimson, pure and unspotted. Synonyms, then, are groups of words whose meanings
are almost the same. These are the words which give so much trouble to learners of our language.
A foreigner is told that stupid means dull, yet he is corrected if he says a stupid knife.
Many who learn English as a native tongue fail to comprehend the many delicate shades of differences
among synonyms.

In this matter, also, a dictionary goes so far as to list synonyms, and in some cases, actually
adds a discussion to define the various limits. For fuller, more careful discrimination a good
book of synonyms should be consulted. Except for some general consideration of words which
everyone is certain to use or misuse, it is better to consult a treatise on synonyms when need
arises than to study it consecutively. In consultation the material will be fixed by instant
use. In study it may fade before being employed; it may never be required.

The subjoined paragraphs show entries in two different volumes upon synonyms:

    Adjacent, adjoining, contiguous. Adjacent, in Latin,
    adjiciens, participle of adjicio, is compounded of ad
    and jacio, to lie near. Adjoining, as the word implies,
    signifies being joined together. Contiguous, in French
    contigu, Latin contiguus, comes from contingo, or
    con and tango, signifying to touch close.

    What is adjacent may be separated altogether by the
    intervention of some third object; what is adjoining must
    touch in some part; and what is contiguous must be fitted
    to touch entirely on one side. Lands are adjacent to a
    house or town; fields are adjoining to each other; and
    houses contiguous to each other.

    CRABBE: English Synonyms

    Victory: Synonyms: achievement, advantage, conquest, mastery,
    success, supremacy, triumph. Victory is the state resulting
    from the overcoming of an opponent or opponents in any
    contest, or from the overcoming of difficulties, obstacles,
    evils, etc., considered as opponents or enemies. In the
    latter sense any hard-won achievement, advantage, or
    success may be termed a victory. In conquest and
    mastery there is implied a permanence of state that is not
    implied in victory. Triumph, originally denoting the
    public rejoicing in honor of a victory, has come to signify
    also a peculiarly exultant, complete, and glorious victory.
    Compare conquer. Antonyms: defeat, destruction,
    disappointment, disaster, failure, frustration, miscarriage,
    overthrow, retreat, rout.

    FERNALD: English Synonyms, Antonyms and Prepositions

Antonyms. Notice that this second paragraph adds a new word-list--antonyms. To reinforce the
understanding of what a thing is, it is desirable to know what it is not, or what its opposite
is. This kind of explanation or description is especially valuable to a speaker. He can frequently
impress an audience more definitely by explaining the opposite of what he wants them to apprehend.
At times the term is not the extreme opposite; it is merely the negative of the other. Logically
the other side of white is not white, while the antonym is the extreme black. Trained speakers
use with great effect the principle underlying such groups of words. When Burke argued before
the House of Commons for a plan to secure harmony with the American colonies he described the
scheme he considered necessary by showing what it should not be. Describing the peace he hoped
would be secured he used this principle of opposites.

We are told by an investigator that one of the reasons for a Frenchman's keen insight into
the capabilities of his language is the early training received in schools covering differences
among words. This continual weighing of the meaning or the suitability of an expression is
bound to result in a delicate appreciation of its value as a means of effective communication.
In all mental action the sense of contrast is an especially lively one. In a later chapter
this principle, as applied to explanation and argument, will be discussed. Just here, the point
is that the constant study of contrasts will sharpen the language sense and rapidly enlarge
the vocabulary.

EXERCISES

1. Put down a group of five words having similar meanings. Explain the differences among them.

2. Choose any word. Give its exact opposite.

3. From any short paragraph copy all the nouns. In a parallel column put opposites or contrasts.

4. Do the same for the adjectives, verbs, and adverbs.

5. Write down all the common nouns which correspond to a man, a girl, a leader, a house, a
costume, a crime.

Composition of the English Language. Turning now from the means of improving the speaker's
language equipment let us pass to some remarks upon his use of words. The English language
is the largest, the most varied in the universe. Almost entirely free from difficulties of
inflection and conjugation, with a simplified grammar, and a great freedom of construction,
it suffers from only two signal drawbacks--its spelling and its pronunciation. While it has
preserved to a great degree its original Anglo-Saxon grammar, it has enriched its vocabulary
by borrowings from everywhere. Its words have no distinctive forms, so every foreign word can
usually be naturalized by a mere change of sound. No matter what their origin, all belong to
one family now; gnu is as much English as knew, japan as pogrom, fête as papoose, batik as
radii, ohm as marconigram, macadamized as zoomed. Most of the modern borrowings--as just illustrated--were
to serve for new things or ideas. But there was one time when a great reduplication of the
vocabulary occurred. After the French conquered England in 1066, English and Norman-French
were spoken side by side. The resultant tongue, composed of both, offered many doubles for
the same idea. In some instances the fashionable and aristocratic French word marked a difference
of meaning as is clearly indicated by such pairs as beef and ox, veal and calf, mutton and
sheep, pork and pig. In many other cases words of French and English origin are separated by
differences less distinct. Such are love and affection, worship and adoration. A speaker must
take thought of such groups, and consciously endeavor to use the more appropriate for his purpose.

Anglo-Saxon and Romance. It may help him to remember that the Anglo-Saxon words are the more
homely, the closer to our everyday feelings and experiences, the expression of our deepest
ideas and sentiments, the natural outspoken response to keen emotion. On the other hand, the
Romance words--as they are called, whether from the French or directly from the Latin--are
likely to be longer; they belong generally to the more complicated relationships of society
and government; they are more intellectual in the sense that they represent the operations
of the brain rather than the impulses of the heart. They deal with more highly trained wills,
with more abstruse problems; they reason, they argue, they consider; they are philosophical,
scientific, legal, historical. Listen to a soldier relate his war experiences. What will his
vocabulary be? Listen to a diplomat explaining the League of Nations. What will his vocabulary
be? Have you ever heard a speaker who gave you the impression that all his words ended in tion?
This was because his vocabulary was largely Romance.

The inferences from the foregoing are perfectly plain. Subject and audience will determine
to a large extent what kinds of words a speaker will choose. The well-equipped speaker will
be master of both kinds; he will draw from either as occasion offers. He will not insult one
audience by talking below their intelligence, nor will he bore another by speaking over their
heads.

General and Specific Terms. Effective speaking depends to a large extent upon the inclusion
of specific terms as contrasted with general terms. "Glittering generalities" never make people
listen. They mean nothing because they say too much. Study the following selections to see
how the concrete phraseology used makes the material more telling, how it enforces the meaning.
Pick out the best expressions and explain why they are better than more general terms. In the
first, note how the last sentence drives home the meaning of the first two. Listeners may understand
the first two, they remember the last.

    Civil and religious liberty in this country can be preserved
    only through the agency of our political institutions. But
    those institutions alone will not suffice. It is not the ship
    so much as the skilful sailing that assures the prosperous
    voyage.

    GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS: The Public Duty of Educated
    Men, 1877

Describe the significance of the best expressions in the following speech made in Parliament
by Thomas Babington Macaulay.

    All those fierce spirits whom you hallooed on to harass us
    now turn round and begin to worry you. The Orangeman raises
    his war-whoop; Exeter Hall sets up its bray; Mr. Macneill
    shudders to see more costly cheer than ever provided for the
    Priest of Baal at the table of the Queen; and the Protestant
    operatives of Dublin call for impeachments in exceedingly bad
    English. But what did you expect? Did you think when, to
    serve your turn, you called the devil up that it was as easy
    to lay him as to raise him? Did you think when you went on,
    session after session, thwarting and reviling those whom you
    knew to be in the right, and flattering all the worst
    passions of those whom you knew to be in the wrong, that the
    day of reckoning would never come? It has come. There you
    sit, doing penance for the disingenuousness of years.

Why was the style of the extract below especially good for the evident purpose and audience?
Why did the author use names for the candidates?

    When an American citizen is content with voting merely, he
    consents to accept what is often a doubtful alternative. His
    first duty is to help shape the alternative. This, which was
    formerly less necessary, is now indispensable. In a rural
    community such as this country was a hundred years-ago,
    whoever was nominated for office was known to his neighbors,
    and the consciousness of that knowledge was a conservative
    influence in determining nominations. But in the local
    elections of the great cities of today, elections that
    control taxation and expenditure, the mass of the voters vote
    in absolute ignorance of the candidates. The citizen who
    supposes that he does all his duty when he votes, places a
    premium upon political knavery. Thieves welcome him to the
    polls and offer him a choice, which he has done nothing to
    prevent, between Jeremy Diddler and Dick Turpin. The party
    cries for which he is responsible are: "Turpin and Honesty,"
    "Diddler and Reform." And within a few years, as a result of
    this indifference to the details of public duty, the most
    powerful politicians in the Empire State of the Union was
    Jonathan Wild, the Great, the captain of a band of
    plunderers. The final test of any diction is its
appropriateness. The man who talks of dignified things as he would of
a baseball game--unless he is doing it deliberately for humor,
caricature, or burlesque--is ruining his own cause. The man who
discusses trifles in the style of philosophy makes himself an
egregious bore.

Beware of the flowery expression; avoid metaphorical speech; flee from the lure of the overwrought
style. In the first place it is so old-fashioned that audiences suspect it at once. It fails
to move them. It may plunge its user into ridiculous failure. In the excitement of spontaneous
composition a man sometimes takes risks. He may--as Pitt is reported to have said he did--throw
himself into a sentence and trust to God Almighty to get him out. But a beginner had better
walk before he tries to soar. If he speaks surely rather than amazingly his results will be
better. The temptation to leave the ground is ever present in speaking.

A Parliamentary debater describing the Church of England wound up in a flowery conclusion thus:
"I see the Church of England rising in the land, with one foot firmly planted in the soil,
the other stretched toward Heaven!"

An American orator discussing the character of Washington discharged the following.

    The higher we rise in the scale of being--material,
    intellectual, and moral--the more certainly we quit the
    region of the brilliant eccentricities and dazzling contrasts
    which belong to a vulgar greatness. Order and proportion
    characterize the primordial constitution of the terrestrial
    system; ineffable harmony rules the heavens. All the great
    eternal forces act in solemn silence. The brawling torrent
    that dries up in summer deafens you with its roaring
    whirlpools in March; while the vast earth on which we dwell,
    with all its oceans and all its continents and its thousand
    millions of inhabitants, revolves unheard upon its soft axle
    at the rate of a thousand miles an hour, and rushes
    noiselessly on its orbit a million and a half miles a day.
    Two storm-clouds encamped upon opposite hills on a sultry
    summer's evening, at the expense of no more electricity,
    according to Mr. Faraday, than is evolved in the
    decomposition of a single drop of water, will shake the
    surrounding atmosphere with their thunders, which, loudly as
    they rattle on the spot, will yet not be heard at the
    distance of twenty miles; while those tremendous and
    unutterable forces which ever issue from the throne of God,
    and drag the chariot wheels of Uranus and Neptune along the
    uttermost path-ways of the solar system, pervade the
    illimitable universe in silence.

Of course, today, nobody talks like that. At least no one should.

Trite Expressions. Less easily guarded against is the delivery of trite expressions. These
are phrases and clauses which at first were so eloquent that once heard they stuck in people's
minds, who then in an endeavor themselves to be emphatic inserted continually into their speeches
these overworked, done-to-death expressions, which now having been used too frequently have
no real meaning. One of the most frequently abused is "of the people, by the people, for the
people." Others are words and phrases made popular by the war. Many are no more than jargon--meaningless
counterfeits instead of the legal tender of real speech. It is amazing to notice how persistently
some of them recur in the remarks of apparently well-trained men who should know better than
to insert them. The following were used by a prominent United States political leader in a
single speech. He could; easily have replaced them by living material or dispensed with them
entirely.

Jot or tittle; the plain unvarnished truth; God forbid; the jackal press; that memorable occasion;
tooth and nail; the God of our fathers; the awful horrors of Valley Forge; the blood-stained
heights of Yorktown; tell it not in Gath; proclaim it not in the streets of Askalon; peace
with honor; the Arabian Nights; Munchausen; the fathers; our globe-encircling domain; I am
a Democrat; the pirates of the Barbary Coast; Democratic gospel pure and undefiled; Janus-faced
double; Good Lord, good devil; all things to all men; God-fearing patriots; come what may;
all things are fair in love or war; the silken bowstring; the unwary voter; bait to catch gudgeons;
to live by or to die by; these obsequious courtiers; Guttenburg; rubber stamp; at all hazards;
the most unkindest cut of all.

With the artificiality, the stiltedness of the foregoing contrast the simplicity, the sincerity
of these two extracts from Abraham Lincoln.

    Farewell Address at Springfield, 1861

Kinds of Sentences. What kinds of sentences shall a speaker construct as he speaks? That there
is a difference between those a person composes when he writes and those the same person is
likely to evolve when he speaks is realized by everyone. We hear that a speaker is "booky,"
or conversational, that he is stilted or lively, that he is too formal, that his discourse
is dull and flat. To a great degree these criticisms are based upon the sentence structure.

The Simple Sentence. The simple sentence contains only one subject and one predicate. The complex
sentence contains one independent clause and at least one subordinate clause. The compound
sentence contains two or more independent clauses. It would be good advice to urge the employment
of the simple sentence were it not for the fact that a long succession of sentences constructed
exactly alike, making the same impression of form and sound and length, is likely to produce
a deadly monotony of emphasis and pause, an impression of immaturity on the part of the speaker
and of lack of skill in molding his phrases. Yet, in the main, the simple sentence is a valuable
kind to know how to deliver. Containing but a single thought it is likely to make a definite
impression upon a listener. It offers him not too much to grasp. It leads him a single step
along the way. It speaks clearly, concisely. Its advantages follow from its qualities. At the
beginning of addresses it is especially efficient in leading the audience at the same rate--slowly,
it should be--as the speaker. In intricate explanation, in close reasoning, in matters of paramount
importance, it should be employed.

Management of the short, simple sentence in written prose is difficult. In spoken discourse,
as well, it is so easy to fall into the First Primer style that while the advantages of the
use of the simple sentence are great, the ability to produce good sentences in succession must
be developed.

The Complex Sentence. The complex sentence offers a good form for introducing pertinent, minor
details, which are necessary, yet which do not merit inclusion in the general level of the
speech. Aided by proper pitch and inflection of the voice, they can be skilfully subordinated
to main ideas, yet introduced so adroitly that they at times relieve attention, at others briefly
explain, at others keep adding up in a series the effect of which is a large total. Frequently
such sentences indicate clearly the progress of the discussion. A topic introduced in a subordinate
clause may later be raised to more importance without abruptness, for hearers are already familiar
with it. A topic already treated may be recalled by citation in a later clause. So various
parts of a speech may be closely knit together to present a coherent, progressive, unified whole.

In easily grasped general, descriptive, narrative, explanatory material, complex sentences
will allow the covering of a wide field, or a long time, in short order by condensing facts
into the few words of subordinate clauses.

The Compound Sentence. Somewhat like the use of complex sentences for general material is the
use of compound ones for informal topics, familiar discourse, easy address, lighter material.
Valuable, too, is this form for the speaker who knows accurately the meaning of conjunctions,
who can avoid the stringing together of what should be simple sentences by a dozen senseless
ands. A good rule for the beginner is to allow no ands in his speeches except those so imbedded
in phrases--husband and wife, now and then, principal and interest--that he cannot avoid them.
Let him never speak such sentences as, "I came to this meeting and discovered only when I got
here that I was scheduled to speak." Let him be careful of beginning sentence's with and after
he has made a pause.

The Exclamatory Sentence. Many speakers yield to the temptation to strive for effect by delivering
exclamatory sentences--sometimes only clauses and phrases so enunciated. The disposition to
do this is born of the desire to be emphatic. Strong feeling makes one burst out in ejaculation.
Used sparingly this form may be extremely effective. Used too frequently it reduces a speech
to a mere series of ejaculations of little more value than a succession of grunts, groans,
and sobs. Exclamatory sentences seldom convey much meaning. They indicate emotion. But a speech,
to be worth listening to, must convey ideas.

The Interrogative Sentence. A second sentence which may be classed with the preceding is the
interrogative. There is a disposition on the part of speakers to ask direct questions of the
audience. Frequently the rhetorical question--which is one asked because the answer is the
quite apparent fact the speaker wants to impress upon his hearers--is an effective method of
making a seemingly personal appeal to sluggish intellects or lazy wills. The interrogative
form has the same disadvantage as the exclamatory. Except when its answer is perfectly plain
it transfers no meaning. It would be easily possible for a speaker with no ideas at all, no
knowledge of a topic, to engage time and attention by merely constructing a series of questions.
At the conclusion the audience would wonder why in the world he spoke, for he had so little to say.

Long and Short Sentences. So far as long and short sentences are concerned some general rules
have already been hinted at in dealing with other kinds. The advantages of the short sentence
are mainly those of clearness, directness, emphasis. Its dangers are monotony, bareness, over-compactness.
The advantages of the long--that is, quite long--sentence, are rather difficult to comprehend.
A wordy sentence is likely to defeat its own purpose. Instead of guiding it will lose its hearer.
Somewhat long sentences--as already said--will serve in general discussions, in rapidly moving
descriptive and narrative passages, in rather simple explanation and argument. No one can state
at just what number of words a short sentence becomes medium, and when the division of medium
becomes long. Yet there must be some limits. A sentence in Les Misérables includes nearly one
thousand words in both French original and English translation. John Milton produced some extraordinarily
long sentences. But these are in written discourse. Some modern speakers have come dangerously
near the limit. In one printed speech one sentence has four hundred ten words in it; a later
one goes to five hundred forty. This second would fill about half a column of the usual newspaper.
Surely these are much too long. A speaker can frequently make a long sentence acceptable by
breaking it up into shorter elements by sensible pauses. Yet the general direction must surely
be: avoid sentences which are too long.

Variety. The paramount rule of sentence structure in speech-making is certainly: secure variety.
Long, medium, short; declarative, exclamatory, interrogative; simple, loose, periodic; use
them all as material permits and economy of time and attention prescribes. With the marvelous
variety possible in English sentence structure, no person with ideas and language at command
need be a monotonous speaker.

EXERCISES

1. Criticize this selection for its diction and sentence structure. What excellences has it?
What can you find fault with? Does its date explain it?

    "The books in the library, the portraits, the table at which
    he wrote, the scientific culture of the land, the course of
    agricultural occupation, the coming-in of harvests, fruit of
    the seed his own hand had scattered, the animals and
    implements of husbandry, the trees planted by him in lines,
    in copses, in orchards by thousands, the seat under the noble
    elm on which he used to sit to feel the southwest wind at
    evening, or hear the breathings of the sea, or the not less
    audible music of the starry heavens, all seemed at first
    unchanged. The sun of a bright day from which, however,
    something of the fervors of midsummer were wanting, fell
    temperately on them all, filled the air on all sides with the
    utterances of life, and gleamed on the long line of ocean.
    Some of those whom on earth he loved best, still were there.
    The great mind still seemed to preside; the great presence to
    be with you; you might expect to hear again the rich and
    playful tones of the voice of the old hospitality. Yet a
    moment more, and all the scene took on the aspect of one
    great monument, inscribed with his name, and sacred to his
    memory. And such it shall be in all the future of America!
    The sensation of desolateness, and loneliness, and darkness,
    with which you see it now, will pass away; the sharp grief of
    love and friendship will become soothed; men will repair
    thither as they are wont to commemorate the great days of
    history; the same glance shall take in, and same emotions
    shall greet and bless, the Harbor of the Pilgrims and the
    Tomb of Webster."

    RUFUS CHOATE: A Discourse Commemorative of Daniel
    Webster, 1853

2. What is the effect of the questions in the following? Are the sentences varied? If the occasion
was momentous, what is the style?

    PATRICK HENRY: Speech in the Virginia Convention,
    1775

3. List the concrete details given below. What effect have they? What elements give the idea
of the extent of the Colonies' fisheries? Are the sentences long or short? Does their success
justify them?

    EDMUND BURKE: Conciliation with America, 1775

4. Is the following clear? What kind of sentence is it? What minor phrase? Is this phrase important?
Why? Why did Lincoln repeat this sentence, practically with no change, twelve times in a single
speech?

    ABRAHAM LINCOLN: Cooper Union Speech, 1860

5. Is the following well phrased? What makes it so? Is any expression too strong? Do you object
to any? How many of the words would you be likely not to use?

    EDMUND BURKE: Speech at Bristol, 1780

6. Describe the effects of the questions in the next. How is sentence variety secured? What
effects have the simple, declarative sentences?

    "And from what have these consequences sprung? We have been
    involved in no war. We have been at peace with all the world.
    We have been visited with no national calamity. Our people
    have been advancing in general intelligence, and, I will add,
    as great and alarming as has been the advance of political
    corruption among the mercenary corps who look to government
    for support, the morals and virtue of the community at large
    have been advancing in improvement. What, I again repeat, is
    the cause?"

    JOHN C. CALHOUN: Speech on the Force Bill, 1833

7. What quality predominates in the following? Does it lower the tone of the passage too much?
Is the interrogative form of the last sentence better than the declarative? Why? Has the last
observation any close connection with the preceding portion? Can it be justified?

    "Modesty is a lovely trait, which sets the last seal to a
    truly great character, as the blush of innocence adds the
    last charm to youthful beauty. When, on his return from one
    of his arduous campaigns in the Seven Years' War, the Speaker
    of the Virginia Assembly, by order of the House, addressed
    Colonel Washington in acknowledgment of his services, the
    youthful hero rose to reply; but humility checked his
    utterance, diffidence sealed his lips. 'Sit down, Colonel
    Washington,' said the Speaker; 'the House sees that your
    modesty is equal to your merit, and that exceeds my power of
    language to describe.' But who ever heard of a modest
    Alexander or a modest Caesar, or a modest hero or statesman
    of the present day?--much as some of them would be improved
    by a measure of that quality."

    EDWARD EVERETT: Character of Washington, 1858

8. Look up the meaning of every unfamiliar expression in this extract. Is the quotation at
the end in good taste? Give reasons for your answer. For what kinds of audiences would this
speech be fitting?

    "The remedy for the constant excess of party spirit lies, and
    lies alone, in the courageous independence of the individual
    citizen. The only way, for instance, to procure the party
    nomination of good men, is for every self-respecting voter to
    refuse to vote for bad men. In the medieval theology the
    devils feared nothing so much as the drop of holy water and
    the sign of the cross, by which they were exorcised. The evil
    spirits of party fear nothing so much as bolting and
    scratching. In hoc signo vinces. If a farmer would reap a
    good crop, he scratches the weeds out of his field. If we
    would have good men upon the ticket, we must scratch bad men
    off. If the scratching breaks down the party, let it break:
    for the success of the party, by such means would break down
    the country. The evil spirits must be taught by means that
    they can understand. 'Them fellers,' said the captain of a
    canal-boat of his men, 'Them fellers never think you mean a
    thing until you kick 'em. They feel that, and understand.'" Describe the quality of the next extract. What is its style? Are
repetitions allowable? What then of variety? Point out contrasts of
words and phrases.

    "What, then it is said, would you legislate in haste? Would
    you legislate in times of great excitement concerning matters
    of such deep concern? Yes, Sir, I would; and if any bad
    consequences should follow from the haste and excitement, let
    those be answerable who, when there was no need to haste,
    when there existed no excitement, refused to listen to any
    project of reform; nay, made it an argument against reform
    that the public mind was not excited.... I allow that hasty
    legislation is an evil. But reformers are compelled to
    legislate fast, just because bigots will not legislate early.
    Reformers are compelled to legislate in times of excitement,
    because bigots will not legislate in times of tranquillity."

    THOMAS BABINGTON MACAULAY: On the Reform Bill,
    1832

10. Describe the diction of the next extract. Describe the prevailing
kind of sentences. Do you approve of these in such an instance?
Explain your answer. Does it remind you--in tone--of any other passage
already quoted in this book? What is your opinion of the style? That is the question I
    am going to try to answer in order, if I may, to interpret
    the occasion.

    WOODROW WILSON: Inaugural, 1918

11. Consider sentence length in the following: Which words are significant? How is concreteness
secured?

    "Ours is a government of liberty by, through, and under the
    law. No man is above it and no man is below it. The crime of
    cunning, the crime of greed, the crime of violence, are all
    equally crimes, and against them all alike the law must set
    its face. This is not and never shall be a government either
    of plutocracy or of a mob. It is, it has been, and it will be
    a government of the people; including alike the people of
    great wealth, of moderate wealth, the people who employ
    others, the people who are employed, the wage worker, the
    lawyer, the mechanic, the banker, the farmer; including them
    all, protecting each and everyone if he acts decently and
    squarely, and discriminating against any one of them, no
    matter from what class he comes, if he does not act squarely
    and fairly, if he does not obey the law. While all people are
    foolish if they violate or rail against the law, wicked as
    well as foolish, but all foolish--yet the most foolish man in
    this Republic is the man of wealth who complains because the
    law is administered with impartial justice against or for
    him. His folly is greater than the folly of any other man who
    so complains; for he lives and moves and has his being
    because the law does in fact protect him and his property."

    THEODORE ROOSEVELT at Spokane, 1903

CHAPTER IV

BEGINNING THE SPEECH

Speech-making a Formal Matter. Every speech is more or less a formal affair. The speaker standing
is separated from the other persons present by his prominence. He is removed from them by standing
while they sit, by being further away from them than in ordinary conversation. The greater
the distance between him and his listeners the more formal the proceeding becomes. When a person
speaks "from the floor" as it is called, that is, by simply rising at his seat and speaking,
there is a marked difference in the manner of his delivery and also in the effect upon the
audience. In many gatherings, speeches and discussions "from the floor" are not allowed at
all, in others this practice is the regular method of conducting business. Even in the schoolroom
when the student speaks from his place he feels less responsibility than when he stands at
the front of the room before his classmates. As all formal exercises have their regular rules
of procedure it will be well to list the more usual formulas for beginnings of speeches.

The Salutation. In all cases where speeches are made there is some person who presides. This
person may be the Vice-President of the United States presiding over the Senate, the Speaker
of the House of Representatives, the Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court, the
president of a city board of aldermen, the judge of a court, the president of a corporation,
of a lodge, of a church society, of a club, the pastor of a church, the chancellor or provost
or dean of a college, the principal of a school, the chairman of a committee, the toastmaster
of a banquet, the teacher of a class. The first remark of a speaker must always be the recognition
of this presiding officer.

Then there are frequently present other persons who are distinct from the ordinary members
of the audience, to whom some courtesy should be shown in this salutation. Their right to recognition
depends upon their rank, their importance at the time, some special peculiar reason for separating
them from the rest of the audience. The speaker will have to decide for himself in most cases
as to how far he will classify his hearers. In some instances there is no difficulty. Debaters
must recognize the presiding officer, the judges if they be distinct from the regular audience,
the members of the audience itself. Lawyers in court must recognize only the judge and the
"gentlemen of the jury." In a debate on the first draft for the League of Nations presided
over by the Governor of Massachusetts, Senator Lodge's salutation was "Your Excellency, Ladies
and Gentlemen, My Fellow Americans." The last was added unquestionably because patriotic feeling
was so strong at the time that reference to our nationality was a decidedly fitting compliment,
and also perhaps, because the speaker realized that his audience might be slightly prejudiced
against the view he was going to advance in criticizing the League Covenant. At times a formal
salutation becomes quite long to include all to whom recognition is due. At a university commencement
a speaker might begin: "Mr. Chancellor, Members of the Board of Trustees, Gentlemen of the
Faculty, Candidates for Degrees, Ladies and Gentlemen."

Other salutations are Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Madame President, Madame Chairman,
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Stevenson, Sir, Mr. Toastmaster, Mr. Moderator, Honorable Judges, Ladies,
Gentlemen, Fellow Citizens, Classmates, Fellow Workers, Gentlemen of the Senate, Gentlemen
of the Congress, Plenipotentiaries of the German Empire, My Lord Mayor and Citizens of London;
Mr. Mayor, Mr. Secretary, Admiral Fletcher and Gentlemen of the Fleet; Mr. Grand Master, Governor
McMillan, Mr. Mayor, My Brothers, Men and Women of Tennessee.

The most important thing about the salutation is that it should never be omitted. To begin
to speak without having first recognized some presiding officer and the audience stamps one
immediately as thoughtless, unpractised, or worse still--discourteous.

Having observed the propriety of the salutation the speaker should make a short pause before
he proceeds to the introduction of his speech proper.

Length of the Introduction. There was a time when long elaborate introductions were the rule,
and textbooks explained in detail how to develop them. The main assumption seems to have been
that the farther away from his topic the speaker began, the longer and more indirect the route
by which he approached it, the more sudden and surprising the start with which it was disclosed
to the audience, the better the speech. Such views are no longer held. One of the criticisms
of the speeches of the English statesman, Burke, is that instead of coming at once to the important
matter under consideration--and all his speeches were upon paramount issues--he displayed his
rhetorical skill and literary ability before men impatient to finish discussion and provide
for action by casting their votes. If a student will read the beginning of Burke's famous Speech
on Conciliation he will readily understand the force of this remark, for instead of bringing
forward the all-important topic of arranging for colonial adjustment Burke uses hundreds of
words upon the "flight of a bill for ever," his own pretended superstitiousness and belief
in omens. So strong is the recognition of the opposite practice today that it is at times asserted
that speeches should dispense with introductions longer than a single sentence.

Purpose of the Introduction. So far as the material of the speech is concerned the introduction
has but one purpose--to bring the topic of the succeeding remarks clearly and arrestingly before
the audience. It should be clearly done, so that there shall be no misunderstanding from the
beginning. It should be arrestingly done, so that the attention shall be aroused and held from
this announcement even until the end. A man should not declare that he is going to explain
the manufacture of paper-cutters, and then later proceed to describe the making of those frames
into which rolls of wrapping paper are fitted underneath a long cutting blade, because to most
people the expression "paper-cutters" means dull-edged, ornamental knives for desks and library
tables. His introduction would not be clear. On the other hand if a minister were to state
plainly that he was going to speak on the truth that "it is more blessed to give than to receive"
his congregation might turn its attention to its own affairs at once because the topic promises
no novelty. But if he declares that he is going to make a defense of selfishness he would surely
startle his hearers into attention, so that he could go on to describe the personal satisfaction
and peace of mind which comes to the doers of good deeds. A speaker could arrest attention
by stating that he intended to prove the immorality of the principle that "honesty is the best
policy," if he proceeded to plead for that virtue not as a repaying policy but as an innate
guiding principle of right, no matter what the consequences. In humorous, half-jesting, ironical
material, of course, clearness may be justifiably sacrificed to preserving interest. The introduction
may state the exact opposite of the real topic.

When nothing else except the material of the introduction need be considered, it should be
short. Even in momentous matters this is true. Notice the brevity of the subjoined introduction
of a speech upon a deeply moving subject.

    WOODROW WILSON, 1917

The following, though much longer, aims to do the same thing--to announce the topic of the
speech clearly. Notice that in order to emphasize this endeavor to secure clearness the speaker
declares that he has repeatedly tried to state his position in plain English. He then makes
clear that he is not opposed to a League of Nations; he is merely opposed to the terms already
submitted for the one about to be formed. This position he makes quite clear in the last sentence
here quoted.

    Your Excellency, Ladies and Gentlemen, My Fellow Americans:

    I am largely indebted to President Lowell for this
    opportunity to address this great audience. He and I are
    friends of many years, both Republicans. He is the president
    of our great university, one of the most important and
    influential places in the United States. He is also an
    eminent student and historian of politics and government. He
    and I may differ as to methods in this great question now
    before the people, but I am sure that in regard to the
    security of the peace of the world and the welfare of the
    United States we do not differ in purposes.

    I am going to say a single word, if you will permit me, as to
    my own position. I have tried to state it over and over
    again. I thought I had stated it in plain English. But there
    are those who find in misrepresentation a convenient weapon
    for controversy, and there are others, most excellent people,
    who perhaps have not seen what I have said and who possibly
    have misunderstood me. It has been said that I am against
    any League of Nations. I am not; far from it. I am anxious to
    have the nations, the free nations of the world, united in a
    league, as we call it, a society, as the French call it, but
    united, to do all that can be done to secure the future peace
    of the world and to bring about a general disarmament.

    SENATOR HENRY CABOT LODGE in a debate in Boston,
    1919

The Introduction and the Audience. When we turn from the material of the introduction or the
speech we naturally consider the audience. Just as the salutations already listed in this chapter
indicate how careful speakers are in adapting their very first words to the special demands
of recognition for a single audience, so a study of introductions to speeches which have been
delivered will support the same principle. A speech is made to affect a single audience, therefore
it must be fitted as closely as possible to that audience in order to be effective. A city
official invited to a neighborhood gathering to instruct citizens in the method of securing
a children's playground in that district is not only wasting time but insulting the brains
and dispositions of his listeners if he drawls off a long introduction showing the value of
public playgrounds in a crowded city. His presence before that group of people proves that
they accept all he can tell them on that topic. He is guilty of making a bad introduction which
seriously impairs the value of anything he may say later concerning how this part of the city
can induce the municipal government to set aside enough money to provide the open space and
the apparatus. Yet this speech was made in a large American city by an expert on playgrounds.

People remembered more vividly his wrong kind of opening remarks than they did his advice concerning
a method of procedure.

Effect of the Introduction upon the Audience. Many centuries ago a
famous and successful Roman orator stipulated the purpose of an
introduction with respect to the audience. Cicero stated that an
introduction should render its hearers "benevolos, attentos,
dociles"; that is, kindly disposed towards the speaker himself,
attentive to his remarks, and willing to be instructed by his
explanations or arguments. Not everyone has a pleasing personality
but he can strive to acquire one. He can, perhaps, not add many
attributes to offset those nature has given him, but he can always
reduce, eradicate, or change those which interfere with his reception
by others. Education and training will work wonders for people who are
not blessed with that elusive quality, charm, or that winner of
consideration, impressiveness. Self-examination, self-restraint,
self-development, are prime elements in such a process. Great men have
not been beyond criticism for such qualities. Great men have
recognized their value and striven to rid themselves of hindrances and
replace them by helps. For if you would inform, a positive
    and dogmatical manner in advancing your sentiments may
    provoke contradiction and prevent a candid attention. If you
    wish information and improvement from the knowledge of
    others, and yet at the same time express yourself as firmly
    fixed in your present opinions, modest, sensible men who do
    not love disputation will probably leave you undisturbed in
    the possession of your error. And by such a manner you can
    seldom hope to recommend yourself in pleasing your hearers,
    or to persuade those whose concurrence you desire. Pope says,
    judiciously:

        "Men should be taught as if you taught them not,
         And things unknown propos'd as things forgot;"

    farther recommending to us

        "To speak, tho' sure, with seeming diffidence."

Of course an audience must be induced to listen. The obligation is always with the speaker.
He is appealing for consideration, he wants to affect the hearers, therefore he must have at
his command all the resources of securing their respectful attention. He must be able to employ
all the legitimate means of winning their attention. A good speaker will not stoop to use any
tricks or devices that are not legitimate. A trick, even when it is successful, is still nothing
but a trick, and though it secure the temporary attention of the lower orders of intellect
it can never hold the better minds of an audience. Surprises, false alarms, spectacular appeals,
may find their defenders. One widely reputed United States lawyer in speaking before audiences
of young people used to advance theatrically to the edge of the stage, and, then, pointing
an accusing finger at one part of the audience, declare in loud ringing tones, "You're a sneak!"
It is questionable whether any attempt at arousing interest could justify such a brusque approach.
Only in broadly comic or genuinely humorous addresses can it be said that the end justifies
the means.

When the audience has been induced to listen, the rest should be easy for the good speaker.
Then comes into action his skill at explanation, his ability to reason and convince, to persuade
and sway, which is the speaker's peculiar art. If they will listen to him, he should be able
to instruct them. The introduction must, so far as this last is concerned, clear the way for
the remainder of the speech. The methods by which such instruction, reasoning, and persuasion
are effected best will be treated later in this book.

Having covered the preceding explanation of the aims and forms of introductions, let us look
at a few which have been delivered by regularly practising speech-makers before groups of men
whose interest, concern, and business it was to listen. All men who speak frequently are extremely
uneven in their quality and just as irregular in their success. One of the best instances of
this unevenness and irregularity was Edmund Burke, whose career and practice are bound to afford
food for thought and discussion to every student of the power and value of the spoken word.
Some of Burke's speeches are models for imitation and study, others are warnings for avoidance.
At one time when he felt personally disturbed by the actions of the House of Commons, because
he as a member of the minority could not affect the voting, he began a speech exactly as no
man should under any circumstances. No man in a deliberative assembly can be excused for losing
control of himself. Yet Burke opened his remarks with these plain words.

    "Mr. Speaker! I rise under some embarrassment occasioned by a
    feeling of delicacy toward one-half of the House, and of
    sovereign contempt for the other half."

This is childish, of course. A man may not infrequently be forced by circumstances to speak
before an audience whose sentiments, opinions, prejudices, all place them in a position antagonistic
to his own. How shall he make them well-disposed, attentive, willing to be instructed? The
situation is not likely to surround a beginning speaker, but men in affairs, in business, in
courts, must be prepared for such circumstances. One of the most striking instances of a man
who attempted to speak before an antagonistic group and yet by sheer power of his art and language
ended by winning them to his own party is in Shakespeare's Julius Caesar when Mark Antony speaks
over his dead friend's body. Brutus allows it, but insists on speaking to the people first
that he may explain why he and his fellow conspirators assassinated the great leader. It was
a mistake to allow a person from the opposite party to have the last word before the populace,
but that is not the point just here. Brutus is able to explain why a group of noble Romans
felt that for the safety of the state and its inhabitants, they had to kill the rising favorite
who would soon as King rule them all. When he ceases speaking, the citizens approve the killing.
Mark Antony perceives that, so at the beginning of his speech he seems to agree with the people.
Caesar was his friend, yet Brutus says he was ambitious, and Brutus is an honorable man. Thus
the skilful orator makes the populace well-disposed towards him, then attentive.

Having secured those things he proceeds slowly and unobtrusively to instruct them. It takes
only a few lines until he has made them believe all he wants them to; before the end of his
oration he has them crying out upon the murderers of their beloved Caesar, for whose lives
they now thirst. Yet only ten minutes earlier they were loudly acclaiming them as deliverers
of their country. The entire scene should be analyzed carefully by the student. It is the second
scene of the third act of the play.

In actual life a man would hardly have to go so far as seemingly to agree with such opposite
sentiments as expressed in this situation from a stage tragedy. It is general knowledge that
during the early years of the American Civil War England sympathized with the southern states,
mainly because the effective blockade maintained by the North prevented raw cotton from reaching
the British mills. Henry Ward Beecher attempted to present the union cause to the English in
a series of addresses throughout the country. When he appeared upon the platform in Liverpool
the audience broke out into a riot of noise which effectively drowned all his words for minutes.
The speaker waited until he could get in a phrase. Finally he was allowed to deliver a few
sentences. By his patience, his appeal to their English sense of fair play, and to a large
degree by his tolerant sense of humor, he won their attention. His material, his power as a
speaker did all the rest.

    It is a matter of very little consequence to me, personally,
    whether I speak here tonight or not. [Laughter and cheers.]
    But one thing is very certain, if you do permit me to speak
    here tonight, you will hear very plain talking. [Applause
    and hisses.] You will not find me to be a man that dared to
    speak about Great Britain three thousand miles off, and then
    is afraid to speak to Great Britain when he stands on her
    shores. [Immense applause and hisses.] And if I do not
    mistake the tone and temper of Englishmen they had rather
    have a man who opposes them in a manly way [applause from
    all parts of the hall] than a sneak that agrees with them in
    an unmanly way. [Applause and "Bravo!"] Now, if I can carry
    you with me by sound convictions, I shall be immensely glad
    [applause]; but if I cannot carry you with me by facts and
    sound arguments, I do not wish you to go with me at all; and
    all that I ask is simply fair play. [Applause, and a voice:
    "You shall have it too.".]

    Those of you who are kind enough to wish to favor my
    speaking--and you will observe that my voice is slightly
    husky, from having spoken almost every night in succession
    for some time past--those who wish to hear me will do me the
    kindness simply to sit still and to keep still; and I and my
    friends the Secessionists will make the noise. [Laughter.]

    HENRY WARD BEECHER, in speech at Liverpool, 1863

The beginning of one of Daniel Webster's famous speeches was a triumph of the deliverer's recognition
of the mood of an audience. In the Senate in 1830 feeling had been running high over a resolution
concerning public lands. Innocent enough in its appearance, this resolution really covered
an attempt at the extension of the slavery territory. Both North and South watched the progress
of the debate upon this topic with almost held breath. Hayne of South Carolina had spoken upon
it during two days when Webster rose to reply to him. The Senate galleries were packed, the
members themselves were stirred up to the highest pitch of keen intensity. Nearly the entire
effect of Webster's statement and argument for the North depended upon the effect he could
make upon the Senators at the very opening of his speech.

Webster began in a low voice, with a calm manner, to speak very slowly. In a second he had
soothed the emotional tension, set all the hearers quite at ease, and by the time the Secretary
had read the resolution asked by Webster, he had them in complete control. His task was to
make them attentive, but more especially, ready to be instructed.

    DANIEL WEBSTER: Reply to Hayne, 1830

Linking the Introduction to Preceding Speeches. So many speeches are replies to preceding addresses
that many introductions adapt themselves to their audiences by touching upon such utterances.
In debates, in pleas in court, in deliberative assemblies, this is more usually the circumstance
than not. The following illustrates how courteously this may be done, even when it serves merely
to make all the clearer the present speaker's position. In moments of tensest feeling great
speakers skilfully move from any one position or attitude to another as Patrick Henry did.
While you are regarding these paragraphs as an example of introduction do not overlook their
vocabulary and sentences.

    PATRICK HENRY in the Virginia Convention, 1775

Difficulties of Introductions. People who are scheduled to make speeches are heard to declare
that they know exactly what they want to say but they do not know how to begin. Another way
they have of expressing this is that they do not know how to bring their material before their
hearers. Undoubtedly the most difficult parts of speeches are the beginnings and conclusions.
In Chapter II one of the methods of preparing for delivery recognized this difference by recording
that one way is to memorize the beginning and ending, the opening and closing sentences. Practised
speakers are more likely not to fix too rigidly in their minds any set way for starting to
speak. They realize that a too carefully prepared opening will smack of the study. The conditions
under which the speech is actually delivered may differ so widely from the anticipated surroundings
that a speaker should be able to readjust his ideas instantly, seize upon any detail of feeling,
remark, action, which will help him into closer communication with his audience. Many practised
speakers, therefore, have at their wits' ends a dozen different manners, so that their appearance
may fit in best with the circumstances, and their remarks have that air of easy spontaneity
which the best speaking should have. Thus, sometimes, the exactly opposite advice of the method
described above and in Chapter II is given. A speaker will prepare carefully his speech proper,
but leave to circumstances the suggestion of the beginning he will use. This does not mean
that he will not be prepared--it means that he will be all the more richly furnished with expedients.
A speaker should carefully think over all the possibilities under which his speech will be
brought forward, then prepare the best introduction to suit each set.

Spirit of the Introduction. The combination of circumstances and material will determine what
we shall call the spirit of the introduction. In what spirit is the introduction treated? There
are as many different treatments as there are human feelings and sentiments. The spirit may
be serious, informative, dignified, scoffing, argumentative, conversational, startling, humorous,
ironic. The student should lengthen this list by adding as many other adjectives as he can.

The serious treatment is always effective when it is suitable. There is a conviction of earnestness
and sincerity about the speech of a man who takes his subject seriously. Without arousing opposition
by too great a claim of importance for his topic he does impress its significance upon listeners.
This seriousness must be justified by the occasion. It must not be an attempt to bolster up
weakness of ideas or commonplaceness of expression. It must be straightforward, manly, womanly.
Notice the excellent effect of the following which illustrates this kind of treatment.

    MAY IT PLEASE YOUR HONOR: I was desired by one of
    the court to look into the books, and consider the question
    now before them concerning Writs of Assistance. I have
    accordingly considered it, and appear not only in obedience
    to your order, but likewise in behalf of the inhabitants of
    this town, who have presented another petition, and out of
    regard to the liberties of the subject.

    It appears to me the worst instrument of arbitrary power, the
    most destructive of English liberty and the fundamental
    principles of law, that ever was found in an English
    law-book.

    JAMES OTIs: On Writs of Assistance, 1761

Informative and argumentative introductions are quite usual. They abound in legislative bodies,
business organizations, and courts of law. Having definite purposes to attain they move forward
as directly and clearly as they can. In such appearances a speaker should know how to lead
to his topic quickly, clearly, convincingly. Introductions should be reduced to a minimum because
time is valuable. Ideas count; mere talk is worthless.

Attempts at humorous speeches are only too often the saddest exhibitions of life. The mere
recital of "funny stories" in succession is in no sense speech-making, although hundreds of
misguided individuals act as though they think so. Nor is a good introduction the one that
begins with a comic incident supposedly with a point pat to the occasion or topic, yet so often
miles wide of both. The funny story which misses its mark is a boomerang. Even the apparently
"sure-fire" one may deliver a disturbing kick to its perpetrator. The grave danger is the "o'er
done or come tardy off" of Hamlet's advice to the players. Humor must be distinctly marked
off from the merely comic or witty, and clearly recognized as a wonderful gift bestowed on
not too many mortals in this world. The scoffing, ironic introduction may depend upon wit and
cleverness born in the head; the humorous introduction depends upon a sympathetic instinct
treasured in the heart. Look back at the remarks made by Beecher to his turbulent disturbers
in Liverpool. Did he help his cause by his genial appreciation of their sentiments?

The student should study several introductions to speeches in the light of all the preceding
discussions so that he may be able to prepare his own and judge them intelligently. Printed
speeches will provide material for study, but better still are delivered remarks. If the student
can hear the speech, then see it in print, so much the better, for he can then recall the effect
in sound of the phrases.

Preparing and Delivering Introductions. Actual practice in preparation and delivery of introductions
should follow. These should be delivered before the class and should proceed no farther than
the adequate introduction to the hearers of the topic of the speech. They need not be so fragmentary
as to occupy only three seconds. By supposing them to be beginnings of speeches from six to
fifteen minutes long these remarks may easily last from one to two minutes.

Aside from the method of its delivery--pose, voice, speed, vocabulary, sentences--each introduction
should be judged as an actual introduction to a real speech. Each speaker should keep in mind
these questions to apply during his preparation. Each listener should apply them as he hears
the introduction delivered.

Is the topic introduced gracefully? Is it introduced clearly? Is the introduction too long?
Does it begin too far away from the topic? Is it interesting? Has it any defects of material?
Has it any faults of manner? Can any of it be omitted? Do you want to hear the entire speech?
Can you anticipate the material? Is it adapted to its audience? Is it above their heads? Is
it beneath their intelligences?

Topics for these exercises in delivering introductions should be furnished by the interests,
opinions, ideas, experiences, ambitions of the students themselves. Too many beginning speakers
cause endless worry for themselves, lower the quality of their speeches, bore their listeners,
by "hunting" for things to talk about, when near at hand in themselves and their activities
lie the very best things to discuss. The over-modest feeling some people have that they know
nothing to talk about is usually a false impression. In Elizabethan England a young poet, Sir
Phillip Sidney, decided to try to tell his sweetheart how much he loved her. So he "sought
fit words, studying inventions fine, turning others' leaves, to see if thence would flow, some
fresh and fruitful showers upon my sunburnt brain." But "words came halting forth" until he
bit his truant pen and almost beat himself for spite. Then said the Muse to him, "Fool, look
in thy heart and write." And without that first word, this is the advice that should be given
to all speakers. "Look in your heart, mind, life, experiences, ideas, ideals, interests, enthusiasms,
and from them draw the material of your speeches--yours because no one else could make that
speech, so essentially and peculiarly is it your own."

The following may serve as suggestions of the kind of topic to choose and the various methods
of approaching it. They are merely hints, for each student must adapt his own method and material.

EXERCISES

1. By a rapid historical survey introduce the discussion that women will be allowed to vote
in the United States.

2. By a historical survey introduce the topic that war will cease upon the earth.

3. Using the same method introduce the opposite.

4. Using some history introduce the topic that equality for all men is approaching.

5. Using the same method introduce the opposite.

6. Starting with the amount used introduce an explanation of the manufacture of cotton goods.
Any other manufactured article may be used.

7. Starting with an incident to illustrate its novelty, or speed, or convenience, or unusualness,
lead up to the description or explanation of some mechanical contrivance.

Dictaphone Adding machine Comptometer Wireless telegraph Knitting machine Moving picture camera
Moving picture machine Self-starter Egg boiler Newspaper printing press Power churn Bottle-making
machine Voting machine Storm in a play Pneumatic tube Periscope, etc.

8. Describe some finished product (as a cup of tea, a copper cent) as introduction to an explanation
of its various processes of development.

9. Start with the opinion that reading should produce pleasure to introduce a recommendation
of a book.

10. Start with the opinion that reading should impart information to introduce a recommendation
of a book.

11. Start with the money return a business or profession offers to introduce a discussion advising
a person to follow it or not.

12. Beginning with the recent war lead up to the topic that military training should be a part
of all regular education.

13. Beginning from the same point introduce the opposite.

14. Beginning with an item--or a fictitious item--from a newspaper recounting an accident lead
up to workmen's compensation laws, or preventive protective measures in factories, or some
similar topic.

15. Using a personal or known experience introduce some topic dealing with the survival of
superstitions.

16. Choosing your own material and treatment introduce some theme related to the government,
or betterment of your community.

17. Introduce a topic dealing with the future policy of your city, county, state, or nation.

18. Lead up to the statement of a change you would like to recommend strongly for your school.

19. In as interesting a manner as possible lead up to a statement of the business or profession
you would like to follow.

20. Introduce a speech in which you intend to condemn something, by dealing with your introductory
material ironically.

21. Imagine that you are presiding at a meeting of some club, society, or organization which
has been called to discuss a definite topic. Choose the topic for discussion and deliver the
speech bringing it before the session.

22. You have received a letter from a member of some organization who suggests that a society
to which you belong join with it in some kind of contest or undertaking. Present the suggestion
to your society.

23. You believe that soma memorial to the memory of some person should be established in your
school, lodge, church, club. Introduce the subject to a group of members so that they may discuss
it intelligently.

24. Introduce some topic to the class, but so phrase your material that the announcement of
the topic will be a complete surprise to the members. Try to lead them away from the topic,
yet so word your remarks that later they will realize that everything you said applies exactly
to the topic you introduce.

25. Lead up to the recital of some mystery, or ghostly adventure.

26. Lead up to these facts. "For each 10,000 American-born workmen in a steel plant in eight
years, 21 were killed; and for each non-English speaking foreign born, 26 were killed. Non-English
speaking show 65 permanently disabled as compared with 28 who spoke English. Of temporarily
disabled only 856 spoke English as compared with 2035 who did not."

27. Introduce the topic: Training in public speaking is valuable for all men and women.

28. In a genial manner suitable to the season's feelings introduce some statement concerning
New Year's resolutions.

29. Frame some statement concerning aviation. Introduce it.

30. Introduce topics or statements related to the following:

The eight-hour day. The principles of Socialism. Legitimate methods of conducting strikes.
Extending the Monroe Doctrine. Studying the classics, or modern languages. Private fortunes.
College education for girls. Direct presidential vote. A good magazine. Some great woman. Sensible
amusements. Fashions. Agriculture. Business practice. Minimum wages. Equal pay for men and women.

CHAPTER V

CONCLUDING THE SPEECH

Preparing the Conclusion. No architect would attempt to plan a building unless he knew the
purpose for which it was to be used. No writer of a story would start to put down words until
he knew exactly how his story was to end. He must plan to bring about a certain conclusion.
The hero and heroine must be united in marriage. The scheming villain must be brought to justice.
Or if he scorn the usual ending of the "lived happily ever after" kind of fiction, he can plan
to kill his hero and heroine, or both; or he can decide for once that his story shall be more
like real life than is usually the case, and have wickedness triumph over virtue. Whatever
he elects to do at the conclusion of his story, whether it be long or short, the principle
of his planning is the same--he must know what he is going to do and adequately prepare for
it during the course of, previous events.

One other thing every writer must secure. The ending of a book must be the most interesting
part of it. It must rise highest in interest. It must be surest of appeal. Otherwise the author
runs the risk of not having people read his book through to its conclusion, and as every book
is written in the hope and expectation that it will be read through, a book which fails to
hold the attention of its readers defeats its own purpose.

The foregoing statements are self-evident but they are set down because their underlying principles
can be transferred to a consideration of the preparation of conclusions for speeches.

Is a Conclusion Necessary? But before we use them let us ask whether all speeches require conclusions.

There are some people--thoughtless, if nothing worse--who habitually end letters by adding
some such expression as "Having nothing more to say, I shall now close." Is there any sense
in writing such a sentence? If the letter comes only so far and the signature follows, do not
those items indicate that the writer has nothing more to say and is actually closing? Why then,
when a speaker has said all he has to say, should he not simply stop and sit down? Will that
not indicate quite clearly that he has finished his speech? What effect would such an ending have?

In the first place the speaker runs the risk of appearing at least discourteous, if not actually
rude, to his audience. To fling his material at them, then to leave it so, would impress men
and women much as the brusque exit from a group of people in a room would or the slamming of
a door of an office.

In the second place the speaker runs the graver risk of not making clear and emphatic the purpose
of his speech. He may have been quite plain and effective during the course of his explanation
or argument but an audience hears a speech only once. Can he trust to their recollection of
what he has tried to impress upon them? Will they carry away exactly what he wants them to
retain? Has he made the main topics, the chief aim, stand out prominently enough? Can he merely
stop speaking? These are quite important aspects of a grave responsibility.

In the third place--though this may be considered less important than the preceding--the speaker
gives the impression that he has not actually "finished" his speech. No one cares for unfinished
articles, whether they be dishes of food, pieces of furniture, poems, or speeches. Without
unduly stressing the fact that a speech is a carefully organized and constructed product, it
may be stated that it is always a profitable effort to try to round off your remarks. A good
conclusion gives an impression of completeness, of an effective product. Audiences are delicately
susceptible to these impressions.

Twenty-two centuries ago Aristotle, in criticizing Greek oratory, declared that the first purpose
of the conclusion was to conciliate the audience in favor of the speaker. As human nature has
not changed much in the ages since, the statement still holds true.

Speakers, then, should provide conclusions for all their speeches.

Although the entire matter of planning the speech belongs to a later chapter some facts concerning
it as they relate to the conclusion must be set down here.

Relation of the Conclusion to the Speech. The conclusion should reflect the purpose of the
speech. It should enforce the reason for the delivery of the speech. As it emphasizes the purpose
of the speech it should be in the speaker's mind before he begins to plan the development of
his remarks. It should be kept constantly in his mind as he delivers his material. A train
from Chicago bound for New York is not allowed to turn off on all the switches it meets in
its journey. A speaker who wants to secure from a jury a verdict for damages from a traction
company does not discuss presidential candidates. He works towards his conclusion. A legislator
who wants votes to pass a bill makes his conclusion and his speech conform to that purpose.
In all likelihood, his conclusion plainly asks for the votes he has been proving that his fellow
legislators should cast. A school principal pleading with boys to stop gambling knows that
his conclusion is going to be a call for a showing of hands to pledge support of his recommendations.
A labor agitator knows that his conclusion is going to be an appeal to a sense of class prejudice,
so he speaks with that continually in mind. An efficiency expert in shop management knows that
his conclusion is going to enforce the saving in damages for injury by accident if a scheme
of safety devices be installed, so he speaks with that conclusion constantly in his mind. In
court the prosecuting attorney tells in his introduction exactly what he intends to prove.
His conclusion shows that he has proved what he announced.

One is tempted to say that the test of a good speech, a well-prepared speech, is its conclusion.
How many times one hears a speaker floundering along trying to do something, rambling about,
making no impression, not advancing a pace, and then later receives from the unfortunate the
confession, "I wanted to stop but I didn't know how to do it." No conclusion had been prepared
beforehand. It is quite as disturbing to hear a speaker pass beyond the place where he could
have made a good conclusion. If he realizes this he slips into the state of the first speaker
described in this paragraph. If he does not realize when he reaches a good conclusion he talks
too long and weakens the effect by stopping on a lower plane than he has already reached. This
fault corresponds to the story teller whose book drops in interest at the end. The son of a
minister was asked whether his father's sermon the previous Sunday had-not had some good points
in it. The boy replied, "Yes, three good points where he should have stopped."

Length of the Conclusion. It must not be inferred from anything here stated concerning the
importance of the conclusion that it need be long. A good rule for the length of the conclusion
is the same rule that applies to the length of the introduction. It should be just long enough
to do best what it is intended to do. As in the case of the introduction, so for the conclusion,
the shorter the better, if consistent with clearness and effect. If either introduction or
conclusion must deliberately be reduced the conclusion will stand the most compression. A conclusion
will frequently fail of its effect if it is so long that the audience anticipates its main
points. It fails if it is so long that it adds nothing of clearness or emphasis to the speech
itself. It will end by boring if it is too long for the importance of its material. It will
often produce a deeper, more lasting impression by its very conciseness. Brevity is the soul
of more than mere humor. A brief remark will cut deeper than a long involved sentence. The
speaker who had shown that the recent great war fails unless the reconstruction to be accomplished
is worthy needed no more involved conclusion than the statement, "It is what we do tomorrow
that will justify what we did yesterday."

Coupled with this matter of effect is the length of the speech itself. Short speeches are likely
to require only short conclusions. Long speeches more naturally require longer conclusions.

Consider the following conclusions. Comment upon them. It would be interesting to try to decide
the length of the speeches from which they are taken, then look at the originals, all of which
are easily procurable at libraries.

    That is in substance my theory of what our foreign policy
    should be. Let us not boast, not insult any one, but make up
    our minds coolly what it is necesary to say, say it, and then
    stand to it, whatever the consequences may be.

    THEODORE ROOSEVELT at Waukesha, 1903

The foregoing is quite matter-of-fact. It contains no emotional appeal at all. Yet even a strong
emotional feeling can be put into a short conclusion. From the date and the circumstances surrounding
the next the reader can easily picture for himself the intense emotion of the audience which
listened to these words from the leader of the free states against the South.

    ABRAHAM LINCOLN: Cooper Union Speech, 1860

While the student planning his own speech must determine exactly what he shall put into his
conclusion--depending always upon his material and his purpose--there are a few general hints
which will help him.

The Retrospective Conclusion. A conclusion may be entirely retrospective. This means merely
that it may refer back to the remarks which have been delivered in the body of the speech.
A speaker does this to emphasize something he has already discussed by pointing out to his
audience that he wants them to remember that from what he has said. Conclusions of this kind
usually have no emotional appeal. They are likely to be found in explanatory addresses, where
the clearness of the exposition should make hearers accept it as true. If a man has proven
a fact--as in a law court--he does not have to make an appeal to feeling to secure a verdict.
Juries are supposed to decide on the facts alone. This kind of conclusion emphasizes, repeats,
clarifies, enforces. The first of the following is a good illustration of one kind of conclusion
which refers to the remarks made in the speech proper. Notice that it enforces the speaker's
opinions by a calm explanation of his sincerity.

    I want you to think of what I have said, because it
    represents all of the sincerity and earnestness that I have,
    and I say to you here, from this platform, nothing that I
    have not already stated in effect, and nothing I would not
    say at a private table with any of the biggest corporation
    managers in the land.

    THEODORE ROOSEVELT at Fitchburg, 1902

The next, while it is exactly the same kind in material, adds some elements of stronger feeling.
Yet in the main it also enforces the speaker's opinion by a clear explanation of his action.
From this conclusion alone we know exactly the material and purpose of the entire speech.

    Sir, I will detain you no longer. There are some parts of
    this bill which I highly approve; there are others in which I
    should acquiesce; but those to which I have now stated my
    objections appear to me so destitute of all justice, so
    burdensome and so dangerous to that interest which has
    steadily enriched, gallantly defended, and proudly
    distinguished us, that nothing can prevail upon me to give it
    my support.

    DANIEL WEBSTER: The Tariff, 1824

The Anticipatory Conclusion. Just as a conclusion may be retrospective, so it may be anticipatory.
It may start from the position defined or explained or reached by the speech and look forward
to what may happen, what must be done, what should be instituted, what should be changed, what
votes should be cast, what punishment should be inflicted, what pardons granted. The student
should make a list of all possible things in the future which could be anticipated in the conclusions
of various speeches. If one will think of the purposes of most delivered speeches he will realize
that this kind of conclusion is much more frequent than the previous kind as so many speeches
anticipate future action or events. Dealing with entirely different topics the three following
extracts illustrate this kind of conclusion. Washington was arguing against the formation of
parties in the new nation, trying to avert the inevitable.

    GEORGE WASHINGTON: Farewell Address, 1796

With the dignity and the calmness of the preceding, contrast the Biblical fervor of the next--the
magnanimous program of the reuniter of a divided people. There is not a single hint in it of
the material of the speech which preceded it, it takes no glance backward, it looks forward
only. Its effectiveness comes from the element of leadership, that gesture of pointing the
way for loyal Americans to follow.

    No nation as great as ours can expect to escape the penalty
    of greatness, for greatness does not come without trouble and
    labor. There are problems ahead of us at home and problems
    abroad, because such problems are incident to the working out
    of a great national career. We do not shrink from them. Scant
    is our patience with those who preach the gospel of craven
    weakness. No nation under the sun ever yet played a part
    worth playing if it feared its fate overmuch--if it did not
    have the courage to be great. We of America, we, the sons of
    a nation yet in the pride of its lusty youth, spurn the
    teachings of distrust, spurn the creed of failure and
    despair. We know that the future is ours if we have in us the
    manhood to grasp it, and we enter the new century girding our
    loins for the contest before us, rejoicing in the struggle,
    and resolute so to bear ourselves that the nation's future
    shall even surpass her glorious past.

    THEODORE ROOSEVELT at Philadelphia, 1902

Grave times always make men look into the future. All acts are judged and justified after they
are performed. All progress depends upon this straining the vision into the darkness of the
yet-to-be. Upon the eve of great struggles anticipation is always uppermost in men's minds.
In the midst of the strife it is man's hope. In the next extract, only one sentence glances
backward.

     WOODROW WILSON: Flag Day Address, 1917

Retrospective and Anticipatory Conclusion. While it does not occur so frequently as the two
kinds just illustrated it is possible for a conclusion to be both retrospective and anticipatory--to
look both backward and forward. The conclusion may enforce what the speech has declared or
proved, then using this position as a safe starting point for a new departure, look forward
and indicate what may follow or what should be done. The only danger in such an attempt is
that the dual aspect may be difficult to make effective. Either one may neutralize the other.
Still, a careful thinker and master of clear language may be able to carry an audience with
him in such a treatment. The division in the conclusion between the backward glance and the
forward vision need not be equal. Here again the effect to be made upon the audience, the purpose
of the speech, must be the determining factor. Notice how the two are blended in the following
conclusion from a much read commemorative oration.

    And now, friends and fellow-citizens, it is time to bring
    this discourse to a close.

    We have indulged in gratifying recollections of the past, in
    the prosperity and pleasures of the present, and in high
    hopes for the future. But let us remember that we have
    duties and obligations to perform, corresponding to the
    blessings which we enjoy. Let us remember the trust, the
    sacred trust, attaching to the rich inheritance which we have
    received from our fathers. Let us feel our personal
    responsibility, to the full extent of our power and
    influence, for the preservation of the principles of civil
    and religious liberty. And let us remember that it is only
    religion, and morals, and knowledge, that can make men
    respectable, under any form of government....

    DANIEL WEBSTER: Completion of Bunker Hill
    Monument, 1843

Conclusions are classified in general under three headings: 1. Recapitulation; 2. Summary;
3. Peroration.

The Recapitulation. The first of these--recapitulation--is exactly defined by the etymology
of the word itself. Its root is Latin caput, head. So recapitulation means the repetition of
the heads or main topics of a preceding discussion. Coming at the end of an important speech
of some length, such a conclusion is invaluable. If the speaker has explained clearly or reasoned
convincingly his audience will have been enlightened or convinced. Then at the end, to assure
them they are justified in their knowledge or conviction, he repeats in easily remembered sequence
the heads which he has treated in his extended remarks. It is as though he chose from his large
assortment a small package which he does up neatly for his audience to carry away with them.
Frequently, too, the recapitulation corresponds exactly to the plan as announced in the introduction
and followed throughout the speech. This firmly impresses the main points upon the brains of
the hearers.

A lawyer in court starts by announcing that he will prove a certain number of facts. After
his plea is finished, in the conclusion of his speech, he recapitulates, showing that he has
proved these things. A minister, a political candidate, a business man, a social worker--in
fact, every speaker will find such a clear-cut listing an informative, convincing manner of
constructing a conclusion. This extract shows a clear, direct, simple recapitulation.

    To recapitulate what has been said, we maintain, first, that
    the Constitution, by its grants to Congress and its
    prohibitions on the states, has sought to establish one
    uniform standard of value, or medium of payment. Second,
    that, by like means, it has endeavored to provide for one
    uniform mode of discharging debts, when they are to be
    discharged without payment. Third, that these objects are
    connected, and that the first loses much of its importance,
    if the last, also, be not accomplished. Fourth, that, reading
    the grant to Congress and the prohibition on the States
    together, the inference is strong that the Constitution
    intended to confer an exclusive power to pass bankrupt laws
    on Congress. Fifth, that the prohibition in the tenth section
    reaches to all contracts, existing or future, in the same way
    that the other prohibition, in the same section, extends to
    all debts, existing or future. Sixth, that, upon any other
    construction, one great political object of the Constitution
    will fail of its accomplishment.

    DANIEL WEBSTER: Ogden vs. Saunders, 1827

The Summary. The second kind--a summary--does somewhat the same thing that the recapitulation
does, but it effects it in a different matter. Note that the recapitulation repeats the main
headings of the speech; it usually uses the same or similar phrasing.

The summary does not do this. The summary condenses the entire material of the speech, so that
it is presented to the audience in shortened, general statements, sufficient to recall to them
what the speaker has already presented, without actually repeating his previous statements.
This kind of conclusion is perhaps more usual than the preceding one. It is known by a variety
of terms--summing up, resume, epitome, review, precis, condensation.

In the first of the subjoined illustrations notice that the words "possible modes" contain
practically all the speech itself. So the four words at the end, "faction, corruption, anarchy,
and despotism," hold a great deal of the latter part of the speech. These expressions do not
repeat the heads of divisions; they condense long passages. The extract is a summary.

    I have thus presented all possible modes in which a
    government founded upon the will of an absolute majority will
    be modified; and have demonstrated that, in all its forms,
    whether in a majority of the people, as in a mere democracy,
    or in a majority of their representatives, without a
    constitution, to be interpreted as the will of the majority,
    the result will be the same: two hostile interests will
    inevitably be created by the action of the government, to be
    followed by hostile legislation, and that by faction,
    corruption, anarchy, and despotism.

    JOHN C. CALHOUN: Speech on the Force Bill, 1833

From the following pick out the expressions which summarize long passages of the preceding
speech. Amplify them to indicate what they might cover.

    I firmly believe in my countrymen, and therefore I believe
    that the chief thing necessary in order that they shall work
    together is that they shall know one another--that the
    Northerner shall know the Southerner, and the man of one
    occupation know the man of another occupation; the man who
    works in one walk of life know the man who works in another
    walk of life, so that we may realize that the things which
    divide us are superficial, are unimportant, and that we are,
    and must ever be, knit together into one indissoluble mass by
    our common American brotherhood.

    THEODORE ROOSEVELT at Chattanooga, 1902

The Peroration. A peroration is a conclusion which--whatever may be its material and treatment--has
an appeal to the feelings, to the emotions. It strives to move the audience to act, to arouse
them to an expression of their wills, to stir them to deeds. It usually comes at the end of
a speech of persuasion. It appeals to sentiments of right, justice, humanity, religion. It
seldom merely concludes a speech; it looks forward to some such definite action as casting
a vote, joining an organization or movement, contributing money, going out on strike, returning
to work, pledging support, signing a petition.

These purposes suggest its material. It is usually a direct appeal, personal and collective,
to all the hearers. Intense in feeling, tinged with emotion, it justifies itself by its sincerity
and honesty alone. Its apparent success is not the measure of its merit. Too frequently an
appeal to low prejudices, class sentiment and prejudice, base motives, mob instincts will carry
a group of people in a certain direction with as little sense and reason as a flock of sheep
display. Every student can cite a dozen instances of such unwarranted and unworthy responses
to skilful perverted perorations. Answering to its emotional tone the style of a peroration
is likely to rise above the usual, to become less simple, less direct. In this temptation for
the speaker lies a second danger quite as grave as the one just indicated. In an attempt to
wax eloquent he is likely to become grandiloquent, bombastic, ridiculous. Many an experienced
speaker makes an unworthy exhibition of himself under such circumstances. One specimen of such
nonsense will serve as a warning.

When the terms for the use of the Panama Canal were drawn up there arose a discussion as to
certain kinds of ships which might pass through the canal free of tolls. A treaty with Great
Britain prevented tolls-exemption for privately owned vessels. In a speech in Congress upon
this topic one member delivered the following inflated and inconsequential peroration. Can
any one with any sanity see any connection of the Revolutionary War, Jefferson, Valley Forge,
with a plain understanding of such a business matter as charging tolls for the use of a waterway?
To get the full effect of this piece of "stupendous folly"--to quote the speaker's own words--the
student should declaim it aloud with as much attempt at oratorical effect as its author expended
upon it.

    Now, may the God of our fathers, who nerved 3,000,000
    backwoods Americans to fling their gage of battle into the
    face of the mightiest monarch in the world, who guided the
    hand of Jefferson in writing the charter of liberty, who
    sustained Washington and his ragged and starving army amid
    the awful horrors of Valley Forge, and who gave them complete
    victory on the blood-stained heights of Yorktown, may He
    lead members to vote so as to prevent this stupendous
    folly--this unspeakable humiliation of the American republic.

When the circumstances are grave enough to justify impassioned language a good speaker need
not fear its effect. If it be suitable, honest, and sincere, a peroration may be as emotional
as human feelings dictate. So-called "flowery language" seldom is the medium of deep feeling.
The strongest emotions may be expressed in the simplest terms. Notice how, in the three extracts
here quoted, the feeling is more intense in each succeeding one. Analyze the style. Consider
the words, the phrases, the sentences in length and structure. Explain the close relation of
the circumstances and the speaker with the material and the style. What was the purpose of each?

    Sir, let it be to the honor of Congress that in these days of
    political strife and controversy, we have laid aside for once
    the sin that most easily besets us, and, with unanimity of
    counsel, and with singleness of heart and of purpose, have
    accomplished for our country one measure of unquestionable
    good.

    DANIEL WEBSTER: Uniform System of Bankruptcy, 1840

Lord Chatham addressed the House of Lords in protest against the inhumanities of some of the
early British efforts to suppress the American Revolution.

    I call upon that right reverend bench, those holy ministers
    of the Gospel, and pious pastors of our Church--I conjure
    them to join in the holy work, and vindicate the religion of
    their God.

At about the same time the same circumstances evoked several famous speeches, one of which
ended with this well-known peroration. Students cannot very well be asked to prepare and deliver
conclusions to speeches which do not yet exist, so there is no way of devising conclusions
until later. But students should report upon conclusions to speeches they have recently listened
to, and explain to the class their opinions concerning their material, methods, treatment,
delivery, effect. The following questions will help in judging and criticizing:

Was the conclusion too long? Was it so short as to seem abrupt? Did it impress the audience?
How could it have been improved? Was it recapitulation, summary, peroration? Was it retrospective,
anticipatory, or both? What was its relation to the main part of the speech? Did it refer to
the entire speech or only a portion? What was its relation to the introduction? Did the speech
end where it began? Did it end as it began? Was the conclusion in bad taste? What was its style?
What merits had it? What defects? What suggestions could you offer for its improvement? With
reference to the earlier parts of the speech, how was it delivered?

The following conclusions should be studied from all the angles suggested in this chapter and
previous ones. An air of reality will be secured if they are memorized and spoken before the class.

EXERCISES

1.  There are many qualities which we need alike in private
    citizen and in public man, but three above all--three for the
    lack of which no brilliancy and no genius can atone--and
    those three are courage, honesty, and common sense.

    THEODORE ROOSEVELT at Antietam, 1903

2.  Poor Sprat has perished despite his splendid tomb in the
    Abbey. Johnson has only a cracked stone and a worn-out
    inscription (for the Hercules in St. Paul's is
    unrecognizable) but he dwells where he would wish to
    dwell--in the loving memory of men.

    AUGUSTINE BIRRELL: Transmission of Dr. Johnson's
    Personality, 1884

3.

    WOODROW WILSON: Speech to the American Federation
    of Labor, 1917

4.  But if, Sir Henry, in gratitude for this beautiful tribute
    which I have just paid you, you should feel tempted to
    reciprocate by taking my horses from my carriage and dragging
    me in triumph through the streets, I beg that you will
    restrain yourself for two reasons. The first reason is--I
    have no horses; the second is--I have no carriage.

    SIMEON FORD: Me and Sir Henry (Irving), 1899

5.

    HENRY VAN DYKE: Books, Literature and the People,
    1900

6.

    EDMUND BURKE: Conciliation with America, 1775

7.  Now, Mr. Speaker, having fully answered all the arguments of
    my opponents, I will retire to the cloak-room for a few
    moments, to receive the congratulations of admiring mends.

    JOHN ALLEN in a speech in Congress

8.

    THOMAS JEFFERSON, First Inaugural, 1801

9.

    ABRAHAM LINCOLN at Philadelphia, 1861

10.

    WOODROW WILSON in a speech to Congress, 1917

11. This is what I have to say--ponder it; something you will
    agree with, something you will disagree with; but think about
    it, if I am wrong, the sooner the wrong is exposed the better
    for me--this is what I have to say: God is bringing the
    nations together. We must establish courts of reason for the
    settlement of controversies between civilized nations. We
    must maintain a force sufficient to preserve law and order
    among barbaric nations; and we have small need of an army
    for any other purpose. We must follow the maintenance of law
    and the establishment of order and the foundations of
    civilization with the vitalizing forces that make for
    civilization. And we must constantly direct our purpose and
    our policies to the time when the whole world shall have
    become civilized; when men, families, communities, will yield
    to reason and to conscience. And then we will draw our sword
    Excalibur from its sheath and fling it out into the sea,
    rejoicing that it is gone forever.

    LYMAN ABBOTT: International Brotherhood, 1899

12. I give you, gentlemen, in conclusion, this sentiment: "The
    Little Court-room at Geneva--where our royal mother England,
    and her proud though untitled daughter, alike bent their
    heads to the majesty of Law and accepted Justice as a greater
    and better arbiter than Power."

    WILLIAM M. EVARTS: International Arbitration, 1872

13. You recollect the old joke, I think it began with Preston of
    South Carolina, that Boston exported no articles of native
    growth but granite and ice. That was true then, but we have
    improved since, and to these exports we have added roses and
    cabbages. Mr. President, they are good roses, and good
    cabbages, and I assure you that the granite is excellent hard
    granite, and the ice is very cold ice.

    EDWARD EVERETT HALE: Boston, 1880

14. Long live the Republic of Washington! Respected by mankind,
    beloved of all its sons, long may it be the asylum of the
    poor and oppressed of all lands and religions--long may it be
    the citadel of that liberty which writes beneath the Eagle's
    folded wings, "We will sell to no man, we will deny to no
    man, Right and Justice."

    Long live the United States of America! Filled with the free,
    magnanimous spirit, crowned by the wisdom, blessed by the
    moderation, hovered over by the guardian angel of
    Washington's example; may they be ever worthy in all things
    to be defended by the blood of the brave who know the rights
    of man and shrink not from their assertion--may they be each
    a column, and altogether, under the Constitution, a perpetual
    Temple of Peace, unshadowed by a Caesar's palace, at whose
    altar may freely commune all who seek the union of Liberty
    and Brotherhood.

    Long live our Country! Oh, long through the undying ages may
    it stand, far removed in fact as in space from the Old
    World's feuds and follies, alone in its grandeur and its
    glory, itself the immortal monument of Him whom Providence
    commissioned to teach man the power of Truth, and to prove to
    the nations that their Redeemer liveth.

    JOHN W. DANIEL: Washington, 1885

15. When that great and generous soldier, U.S. Grant gave back to
    Lee, crushed, but ever glorious, the sword he had surrendered
    at Appomattox, that magnanimous deed said to the people of
    the South: "You are our brothers." But when the present ruler
    of our grand republic on awakening to the condition of war
    that confronted him, with his first commission placed the
    leader's sword in the hands of those gallant Confederate
    commanders, Joe Wheeler and Fitzhugh Lee, he wrote between
    the lines in living letters of everlasting light the words:
    "There is but one people of this Union, one flag alone for
    all."

    The South, Mr. Toastmaster, will feel that her sons have been
    well given, that her blood has been well spilled, if that
    sentiment is to be indeed the true inspiration of our
    nation's future. God grant it may be as I believe it will.

    CLARE HOWELL: Our Reunited Country, 1898

16. Two years ago last autumn, we walked on the sea beach
    together, and with a strange and prophetic kind of poetry, he
    likened the scene to his own failing health, the falling
    leaves, the withered sea-weed, the dying grass upon the
    shore, and the ebbing tide that was fast receding from us. He
    told me that he felt prepared to go, for he had forgiven his
    enemies, and could even rejoice in their happiness. Surely
    this was a grand condition in which to step from this world
    across the threshold to the next!

    JOSEPH JEFFERSON: In Memory of Edwin Booth, 1893

17. A public spirit so lofty is not confined to other lands. You
    are conscious of its stirrings in your soul. It calls you to
    courageous service, and I am here to bid you obey the call.
    Such patriotism may be yours. Let it be your parting vow that
    it shall be yours. Bolingbroke described a patriot king in
    England; I can imagine a patriot president in America. I can
    see him indeed the choice of a party, and called to
    administer the government when sectional jealousy is fiercest
    and party passion most inflamed. I can imagine him seeing
    clearly what justice and humanity, the national law and the
    national welfare require him to do, and resolved to do it. I
    can imagine him patiently enduring not only the mad cry of
    party hate, the taunt of "recreant" and "traitor," of
    "renegade" and "coward," but what is harder to bear, the
    amazement, the doubt, the grief, the denunciation, of those
    as sincerely devoted as he to the common welfare. I can
    imagine him pushing firmly on, trusting the heart, the
    intelligence, the conscience of his countrymen, healing angry
    wounds, correcting misunderstandings, planting justice on
    surer foundations, and, whether his party rise or fall,
    lifting his country heavenward to a more perfect union,
    prosperity, and peace. This is the spirit of a patriotism
    that girds the commonwealth with the resistless splendor of
    the moral law--the invulnerable panoply of states, the
    celestial secret of a great nation and a happy people. So far this book has dealt almost entirely
with the manner of speaking. Now it comes to the relatively more
important consideration of the material of speech. Necessary as it is
that a speaker shall know how to speak, it is much more valuable that
he shall know what to speak. We frequently hear it said of a speaker,
"It wasn't what he said, it was the way he said it," indicating
clearly that the striking aspect of the delivery was his manner; but
even when this remark is explained it develops frequently that there
was some value in the material, as well as some charm or surprise or
novelty in the method of expression. In the last and closest analysis
a speech is valuable for what it conveys to its hearers' minds, what
it induces them to do, not what temporary effects of charm and
entertainment it affords.

Persons of keen minds and cultivated understandings have come away from gatherings addressed
by men famous as good speech-makers and confessed to something like the following: "I was held
spellbound all the time he was talking, but for the life of me, I can't tell you one thing
he said or one idea he impressed upon me." A student should judge speeches he hears with such
things in mind, so that he can hold certain ones up as models, and discard others as "horrible
examples."

It should be the rule that before a man attempts to speak he should have something to say.
This is apparently not always the case. Many a man tries to say something when he simply has
nothing at all to say. Recall the description of Gratiano's talk, quoted earlier in this book.

A speaker then must have material. He must get material. The clergyman knows that he must deliver
about a hundred sermons a year. The lawyer knows he must go into court on certain days. The
lecturer must instruct his various audiences. The business man must address executive boards,
committees, conventions, customers. The student must address classes, societies. The beginner
in speech training must seize every opportunity to talk. Certainly the natural reserve stock
of ideas and illustrations will soon be exhausted, or it will grow so stale that it will be
delivered ineffectively, or it will be unsuitable to every occasion. A celebrated Frenchman,
called upon unexpectedly to speak, excused himself by declaring, "What is suitable to say I
do not know, and what I know is not suitable."

Getting Material. There are three ways of getting material. The first is by observation, the
second by interview, the third by reading.

Observation. The value of securing material by observation is apparent at first glance. That
which you have experienced you know. That which you have seen with your own eyes you can report
correctly. That which has happened to you you can relate with the aspect of absolute truth.
That which you have done you can teach others to do. That which has touched you you can explain
correctly. That which you know to be the fact is proof against all attack.

These are the apparent advantages of knowledge gained at first hand. The faculty of accurate
observation is one of the most satisfying that can enter into a person's mental equipment.
It can be trained, broadened, and made more and more accurate. In some trades and professions
it is an indispensable part of one's everyday ability. The faculty may be easily developed
by exercise and test for accuracy.

Everyone acknowledges the weight and significance of material gained by observation. In America
especially we accord attention and regard to the reports and accounts made by men who have
done things, the men who have experienced the adventures they relate. There is such a vividness,
a reality, a conviction about these personal utterances that we must listen respectfully and
applaud sincerely. Magazines and newspapers offer hundreds of such articles for avid readers.
Hundreds of books each year are based upon such material.

With all its many advantages the field of observation is limited. Not every person can experience
or see all he is interested in and wants to talk about. We must choose presidents but we cannot
observe the candidates themselves and their careers. We must have opinions about the League
of Nations, the Mexican situation, the radical labor movements, the changing taxes, but we
cannot observe all phases of these absorbing topics. If we restrict speeches to only what we
can observe we shall all be uttering merely trivial personalities based upon no general knowledge
and related to none of the really important things in the universe.

Nor is it always true that the person who does a thing can report it clearly and accurately.
Ask a woman or girl how she hemstitches a handkerchief, or a boy how he swims or throws a curve,
and note the involved and inaccurate accounts. If you doubt this, explain one of these to the
class. It is not easy to describe exactly what one has seen, mainly because people do not see
accurately. People usually see what they want to see, what they are predisposed to see. Witnesses
in court, testifying upon oath concerning an accident, usually produce as many different versions
as there are pairs of eyes. Books upon psychology report many enlightening and amusing cases
of this defect of accurate observation in people.[1]

The two negative aspects of material secured in this first manner--1, limited range of observation,
2, inaccuracy of observation--placed beside the advantages already listed will clearly indicate
in what subjects and circumstances this method should be relied upon for securing material
for speeches.

[Footnote 1: Good cases are related by Swift, E.J.: Psychology and the Day's Work.]

EXERCISES

1. Make a list of recent articles based upon observation which you have seen or read in newspapers
and magazines.

2. With what kind of material does each deal?

3. Which article is best? Why?

4. List four topics upon which your observation has given you material which could be used
in a speech.

5. What kind of speech? A speech for what purpose?

6. Consider and weigh the value of your material.

7. Why is it good?

8. What limits, or drawbacks has it?

9. What could be said against it from the other side?

Interview. If a person cannot himself experience or observe all he wants to use for material
his first impulse will be to interview people who have had experience themselves. In this circumstance
the speaker becomes the reporter of details of knowledge furnished by others. The value of
this is apparent at once. Next to first-hand knowledge, second-hand knowledge will serve admirably.

Every newspaper and magazine in the world uses this method because its readers' first query,
mental or expressed, of all its informative articles is "Is this true?" If the author is merely
repeating the experience of an acknowledged expert in the field under discussion, the value
of the interview cannot be questioned. In this case the resulting report is almost as good
as the original testimony or statement of the man who knows.

The first requisite, therefore, of material gathered in such a manner is that it be reproduced
exactly as first delivered. The man who told a woman that a critic had pronounced her singing
"heavenly" had good intentions but he was not entirely accurate in changing to that nattering
term the critic's actual adjective "unearthly." The frequency with which alleged statements
published in the daily press are contradicted by the supposed utterers indicates how usual
such misrepresentation is, though it may be honestly unintentional. The speaker before an audience
must be scrupulously correct in quoting. This accuracy is not assured unless a stenographic
transcript be taken at the time the information is given, or unless the person quoted reads
the sentiments and statements credited to him and expresses his approval.

Signed statements, personal letters, printed records, photographs, certified copies, and other
exhibits of all kinds are employed to substantiate material secured from interviews and offered
in speeches. If you notice newspaper accounts of lectures, political speeches, legislative
procedure, legal practice, you will soon become familiar with such usages as are described
by the expressions, filing as part of the record, taking of a deposition in one city for use
in a lawsuit in another, Exhibit A, photograph of an account book, statement made in the presence
of a third party, as recorded by a dictaphone, etc.

The first danger in securing material by the personal interview is the natural error of misunderstanding.
The second danger is the natural desire--not necessarily false, at that--to interpret to the
user's benefit, the material so secured, or to the discredit of all views other than his own.
It is so easy, so tempting, in making out a strong case for one's own opinions to omit the
slight concession which may grant ever so little shade of right to other beliefs. Judicious
manipulation of any material may degenerate into mere juggling for support. Quotations and
reports, like statistics, can be made to prove anything, and the general intellectual distrust
of mere numbers is cleverly summed up in the remark, "Figures can't lie, but liars can figure."

To have the material accepted as of any weight or value the person from whom it is secured
must be recognized as an authority. He must be of such eminence in the field for which his
statements are quoted as not only to be accepted by the speaker using his material but as unqualifiedly
recognized by all the opponents of the speaker. His remarks must have the definiteness of the
expert witness whose testimony in court carries so much weight. To secure due consideration,
the speaker must make perfectly clear to his audience the position of his authority, his fitness
to be quoted, his unquestioned knowledge, sincerity, and honesty.

Knowledge secured in this manner may be used with signal effect in a speech, either to supply
all the material or to cover certain portions. If you listen to many speeches (and you should),
notice how often a speaker introduces the result of his interviews--formal or merely conversational--with
persons whose statement he is certain will impress his audience.

EXERCISES

1. Make a list of five topics of which you know so little that you would have to secure information
by interviews.

2. Of these choose two, define your opinion or feeling in each, and tell to whom you could
apply for material.

3. Choose one dealing with some topic of current interest in your locality; define your own
opinion or feeling, and tell to whom you could apply for material.

4. Explain exactly why you name this person.

5. Prepare a set of questions to bring out material to support your position.

6. Prepare some questions to draw out material to dispose of other views.

7. Interview some person upon one of the foregoing topics or a different one, and in a speech
present this material before the class.

8. In general discussion comment on the authorities reported and the material presented.

Reading. The best way and the method most employed for gathering material is reading. Every
user of material in speeches must depend upon his reading for the greatest amount of his knowledge.
The old expression "reading law" shows how most legal students secured the information upon
which their later practice was based. Nearly all real study of any kind depends upon wide and
careful reading.

Reading, in the sense here used, differs widely from the entertaining perusal of current magazines,
or the superficial skimming through short stories or novels. Reading for material is done with
a more serious purpose than merely killing time, and is regulated according to certain methods
which have been shown to produce the best results for the effort and time expended.

The speaker reads for the single purpose of securing material to serve his need in delivered
remarks. He has a definite aim. He must know how to serve that end. Not everyone who can follow
words upon a printed page can read in this sense. He must be able to read, understand, select,
and retain. The direction is heard in some churches to "read, mark, learn, and inwardly digest."
This is a picturesque phrasing of the same principles.

You must know how to read. Have you often in your way through a book suddenly realized at the
bottom of a page that you haven't the slightest recollection of what your eye has been over?
You may have felt this same way after finishing a chapter. People often read poetry in this
manner. This is not really reading. The speaker who reads for material must concentrate. If
he reaches the bottom of a page without an idea, he must go back to get it. It is better not
to read too rapidly the first time, in order to save this repetition. The ability to read is
trained in exactly the same way as any other ability. Accuracy first, speed later. Perhaps
the most prevalent fault of students of all kinds is lack of concentration.

Understanding. After reading comes understanding. To illustrate this, poetry again might be
cited, for any one can read poetry, though many declare they cannot understand it. The simplest
looking prose may be obscure to the mind which is slow in comprehending. When we read we get
general ideas, cursory impressions; we catch the drift of the author's meaning. Reading for
material must be more thorough than that. It must not merely believe it understands; it must
preclude the slightest possibility of misunderstanding.

A reader who finds in a printed speech approval of a system of representation but a condemnation
of a system of representatives must grasp at once, or must work out for himself, the difference
between these two: the first meaning a relationship only, the second meaning men serving as
delegates. When he meets an unusual word like mandatory, he must not be content to guess at
its significance by linking it with command and mandate, for as used in international affairs
it means something quite definite. To secure this complete understanding of all his reading
he will consult consistently every book of reference. He should read with a good dictionary
at his elbow, and an atlas and an encyclopedia within easy reach. If he is able to talk over
with others what he reads, explaining to them what is not clear, he will have an excellent
method of testing his own understanding. The old-fashioned practice of "saying lessons over"
at home contributed to this growth of a pupil's understanding.

Selecting. Third, the reader for material must know how to select. As he usually reads to secure
information or arguments for a certain definite purpose, he will save time by knowing quickly
what not to read. All that engages his attention without directly contributing to his aim is
wasting time and energy. He must learn how to use books. If he cannot handle alphabetized collections
quickly he is wasting time. If he does not know how material is arranged he will waste both
time and energy. He must know books.

Every printed production worthy of being called a book should have an index. Is the index the
same as the table of contents? The table of contents is printed at the beginning of the volume.
It is a synopsis, by chapter headings or more detailed topics, of the plan of the book. It
gives a general outline of the contents of the book. You are interested in public speaking.
You wonder whether a book contains a chapter on debating. Does this one? You notice that a
speaker used a series of jerky gesticulations. You wonder whether this book contains a chapter
upon gestures. Does it?

The table of contents is valuable for the purposes just indicated. It appears always at the
beginning of a work. If the work fills more than one volume, the table of contents is sometimes
given for all of them in the first; sometimes it is divided among the volumes; sometimes both
arrangements are combined.

The table of contents is never so valuable as the index. This always comes at the end of the
book. If the work is in more than one volume the index comes at the end of the last volume.
What did you learn of the topic gestures in this book from your reference to the table of contents?
Now look at the index. What does the index do for a topic? If a topic is treated in various
parts of a long work the volumes are indicated by Roman numerals, the pages by ordinary numerals.

Interpret this entry taken from the index of A History of the United States by H.W. Elson.

    Slavery, introduced into Virginia, i, 93; in South Carolina,
    122; in Georgia, 133; in New England, 276; in the South, 276;
    during colonial period, iii, 69, 70; in Missouri, 72;
    attacked by the Abolitionists, 142-6; excluded from
    California, 184; character of, in the South, 208 seq.;
    population, iv, 82; abolished in District of Columbia, in new
    territories, 208; abolished by Thirteenth Amendment, 320,
    321.

Retaining Knowledge. The only valid test of the reader's real equipment is what he retains
and can use. How much of what you read do you remember? The answer depends upon education,
training in this particular exercise, and lapse of time. What method of remembering do you
find most effective in your own case? To answer this you should give some attention to your
own mind. What kind of mind have you? Do you retain most accurately what you see? Can you reproduce
either exactly or in correct substance what you read to yourself without any supporting aids
to stimulate your memory? If you have this kind of mind develop it along that line. Do not
weaken its power by letting it lean on any supports at all. If you find you can do without
them, do not get into the habit of taking notes. If you can remember to do everything you should
do during a trip downtown don't make a list of the items before you go. If you can retain from
a single reading the material you are gathering, don't make notes. Impress things upon your
memory faculty. Develop that ability in yourself.

Have you a different kind of mind, the kind which remember best what it tells, what it explains,
what it does? Do you fix things in your brain by performing them? Does information become rooted
in your memory because you have imparted it to others? If so you should secure the material
you gather from your reading by adapting some method related to the foregoing. You may talk
it over with some one else, you may tell it aloud to yourself, you may imagine you are before
an audience and practise impressing them with what you want to retain. Any device which successfully
fixes knowledge in your memory is legitimate. You should know enough about your own mental
processes to find for yourself the best and quickest way. It is often said of teachers that
they do not actually feel that they know a subject until they have tried to teach it to others.

Taking Notes. Another kind of mind recalls or remembers material it has read when some note
or hint suggests all of it. This kind of mind depends upon the inestimably valuable art of
note-taking, a method quite as worthy as the two just considered if its results justify its
employment. Note-taking does not mean a helter-skelter series of exclamatory jottings. It means
a well-planned, regularly organized series of entries so arranged that reference to any portion
recalls vividly and exactly the full material of the original. Books and speeches are well
planned. They follow a certain order. Notes based upon them should reproduce that plan and
show the relative value of parts.

When completed, such notes, arranged in outline form, should enable the maker to reproduce
the extended material from which they were made. If he cannot do that, his reading and his
note-taking were to little purpose. A speaker who has carefully written out his full speech
and delivers it form the manuscript can use that speech over and over again. But that does
not indicate that he really knows much about the topic he is discussing. He did know about
it once. But the man who from a series of notes can reconstruct material worked up long before
proves that he has retained his knowledge of it. Besides, this method gives him the chance
to adapt his presentation to the changing conditions and the new audience.

In using this method, when a particularly important bit of information is met, it should be
set down very carefully, usually verbatim, as it may be quoted exactly in the speech. This
copy may be made upon the paper where the regular notes are being entered so that it may be
found later embodied in the material it supports. Or it may later be cut from this sheet to
be shifted about and finally fixed when planning the speech, or preparing the outline (discussed
in the next two chapters). Many practised speech-makers copy such material upon the regularly
sized library catalog cards (3 by 5 inches), some distinguishing by the colors of cards the
various kinds of material, such as arguments supporting a position, opposite arguments, refutation,
statistics, court judgments, etc. The beginner will find for himself what methods he can use
best. Of course he must never let his discriminating system become so elaborate that he consumes
unjustifiable time and thought in following its intricate plan.

In all cases of quotations--either verbatim or in resume--the authority must be noted. Author,
official title or position, title of work, circumstances, date, volume, page, etc., should
be clearly set down. In law cases the date is especially important as so frequently the latest
decision reverses all the earlier ones. For convenience of filing and handling these items
are placed at the top of the card.

    Monroe Doctrine--Meaning

    W. Wilson--Hist. Amer. People, V, 245

    The U.S. had not undertaken to maintain an actual formal
    protectorate over the S. Amer. states, but it did frankly
    undertake to act as their nearest friend in the settlement of
    controversies with European nations, and no President,
    whether Rep. or Dem., had hesitated since this critical
    dispute concerning the boundaries of Brit. Guiana arose to
    urge its settlement upon terms favorable to Venezuela.

The following notes were made by a student in preparation for a speech upon the opposition
to the Covenant of the League of Nations. These excerpts are from the notes upon the newspaper
reports of the debate in Boston in 1919 between Senator Lodge and President Lowell of Harvard.
Notice how accurately they suggest the material of the original. The numbers represent the
paragraph numbers.

    [Sidenote: Monroe Doctrine.]

    35. Monroe Doctrine a fence that cannot be extended by taking
    it down.

    36. Monroe Doctrine a corollary of Washington's foreign
    policy.

    37. Geographical considerations on which Monroe Doctrine
    rested still obtain.

    38. Systems of morality and philosophy are not transient,
    because they rest on verities.

    39. Monroe Doctrine rests on law of self-preservation.

    40. Offers a larger reservation of Monroe Doctrine as third
    constructive criticism.

    SENATOR LODGE

    [Sidenote: What a League should provide.]

    3. Wants to consider what such a league must contain.

    4. Must have provision for obligatory arbitration.

    5. Obligation not to resort to war must be compulsory.

    6. Compulsion must be such that no nation will venture to
    incur it.

    7. Nation that does not submit to arbitration must be treated
    as outlaw.

    8. If decisions of arbitrations are clear and generally
    considered just, a nation desiring to wage war should be
    prevented.

    9. Points of contact are not points of friction except when
    made too infrequent.

    10. Travel, intercourse, frequent meetings help amicable
    adjustments.

    11. League should provide councils where men can meet and
    talk over differences.

    12. Penalty for violating agreements should be automatic.

    13. All should be obliged to make war on attacking nation.

    PRESIDENT LOWELL.

Using the Library. A reader must know how to use libraries. This means he must be able to find
books by means of the card catalogs. These are arranged by both authors and subjects. If he
knows the author of a book or its title he can easily find the cards and have the book handed
to him. Very often he will seek information upon topics entirely new to him. In this case he
must look under the entry of the topic for all the books bearing upon his. From the titles,
the brief descriptions, and (sometimes) the tables of contents upon the cards he can select
intelligently the books he needs. For instance, if he is searching for arguments to support
a new kind of city government he could discard at once several books cataloged as follows,
while he could pick unerringly the four which might furnish him the material he wants. These
books are listed under the general topic "Cities."

    The Spirit of Youth and the City Streets. Old English Towns.
    Municipal Administration. The Modern City and its Problems.
    Personality of American Cities. Historic Towns of the
    Southern States. Romantic Germany. Cities of Italy. American
    Municipal Progress.

Cross references are also valuable. In addition to books cataloged under the topic consulted,
others grouped under other subjects may contain related information. Here are three actual
cross references taken from a library catalog.

    Land: Ownership, rights, and rent. See also conservation,
    production, agriculture.

    Laboring classes: Morals and habits. See also ethics,
    amusements, Sunday.

    Church. See also church and state, persecutions.

The continual use of a library will familiarize a student with certain classes of books to
which he may turn for information. If he is permitted to handle the books themselves upon the
shelves he will soon become skilful in using books. Many a trained speaker can run his eye
over titles, along tables of contents, scan the pages, and unerringly pick the heart out of
a volume. Nearly all libraries now are arranged according to one general plan, so a visitor
who knows this scheme can easily find the class of books he wants in almost any library he
uses. This arrangement is based upon the following decimal numbering and grouping of subject
matter.

LIBRARY CLASSIFICATION

000 to 090, General works. Bibliography. Library economy. Cyclopedias. Collections. Periodicals.
Societies, museums. Journalism, newspapers. Special libraries, polygraphy. Book rarities.

100 to 190, Philosophy. Metaphysics. Special topics. Mind and body. Philosophic systems. Mental
faculties, psychology. Logic, dialectics. Ethics. Ancient philosophers. Modern.

200 to 290, Religion. Natural Theology. Bible. Doctrinal dogmatics, theology. Devotional, practical.
Homiletic, pastoral, parochial. Church, institutions, work. Religious history. Christian churches
and sects. Ethnic, non-christian.

300 to 390, Sociology. Statistics. Political science. Political economy. Law. Administration.
Associations, institutions. Education. Commerce, communication. Customs, costumes, folklore.

400 to 490, Philology. Comparative. English. German. French. Italian. Spanish. Latin. Greek.
Minor literatures.

500 to 590, Natural science. Mathematics, Astronomy. Physics. Chemistry. Geology. Paleontology.
Biology. Botany. Zoölogy.

600 to 690, Useful arts. Medicine. Engineering. Agriculture. Domestic economy. Communication,
commerce. Chemic technology. Manufactures. Mechanic trades. Building.

700 to 790, Fine arts. Landscape gardening. Architecture. Sculpture. Drawing, decoration, design.
Painting. Engraving. Photography. Music. Amusements.

800 to 890, Literature (same order as under Philology, 400).

900 to 990, History. Geography and travels. Biography. Ancient history. Modern Europe. Asia.
Africa. North America. South America. Oceanica and polar regions.

M. DEWEY: Decimal Classification

Using Periodicals. In the section on taking notes the direction was given that in citing legal
decisions the latest should be secured. Why? That same principle applies to citing any kind
of information in a speech. Science, history, politics, government, international questions,
change so rapidly in these times that the fact of yesterday is the fiction of today, and vice
versa. A speaker must be up to date in his knowledge. This he can be only by consulting current
periodicals. He cannot read them all so he must use the aids provided for him. The best of
these is the Reader's Guide to Periodical Literature issued every month and kept in the reference
room of all libraries. In it, arranged under both subject and author's name, are listed the
articles which have appeared in the various magazines. The December issue contains the entries
for the entire year. A group of topics from a recent monthly issue will show its value to the
speaker securing material.

    Eastern Question. British case in the East. H. Sidebotham,
    Asia 19:261-1263 Mr '19.--England and her eastern policy. H.
    Sidebotham. Asia, 19:158-161. F '19.--Khanates of the Middle
    East. Ikbal Ali Shah. Contemp. 115:183-187 F '19.--More
    secret treaties in the Near East. L. Stoddard. Maps. World's
    Work. 37: 589-591. Mr '19.--Part of the United States in the
    Near East. R of Rs 59:305-306 Mr '19.--Should America act as
    trustee of the Near East? Asia, 19:141-144 F'19.

By this time the student speaker will have that mental alertness referred to early in this
book. He will be reading regularly some magazine--not to pass the time pleasantly--but to keep
himself posted on current topics and questions of general interest, in which the articles will
direct him to other periodicals for fuller treatment of the material he is gathering. The nature
of some of these is suggested here.

    The Outlook, "An illustrated weekly journal of current
    events."

    Current Opinion, Monthly. Review of the World, Persons in
    the Foreground, Music and Drama, Science and Discovery,
    Religion and Social Ethics, Literature and Art, The
    Industrial World, Reconstruction.

    The Literary Digest, Weekly. Topics of the Day, Foreign
    Comment, Science and Invention, Letters and Art, Religion and
    Social Service, Current Poetry, Miscellaneous, Investments
    and Finance.

    The Independent, an illustrated weekly.

EXERCISES

1. Describe to the class the contents of a recent issue of a magazine. Concentrate upon important
departments, articles, or policies, so that you will not deliver a mere list.

2. Tell how an article in some periodical led you to read more widely to secure fuller information.

3. Explain why you read a certain periodical regularly.

4. Speak upon one of the following topics:

Freak magazines. My magazine. Policies of magazines. Great things magazines have done. Technical
magazines. Adventures at a magazine counter. Propaganda periodicals.

5. Explain exactly how you study.

6. How would you secure an interview with some person of prominence?

7. Is the "cramming" process of studying a good one?

8. Is it ever justifiable?

9. Explain how, why, and when it may be used by men in their profession.

10. Give the class an idea of the material of some book you have read recently.

11. Explain how reading a published review or hearing comments on a book induced you to read
a volume which proved of value to you.

12. Can you justify the reading of the last part only of a book? Consider non-fiction.

13. For preserving clippings, notes, etc., which method is better--cards filed in boxes or
drawers, scrap-books, or slips and clippings grouped in envelopes?

14. Report to the class some information upon one of the following. Tell exactly how and where
you secured your information.

Opium traffic in China. Morphine habit in the United States. Women in literature. A drafted
army as compared with a volunteer army. Orpheum as a theater name. Prominent business women.
War time influence of D'Annunzio. Increasing cost of living. Secretarial courses. The most
beautiful city of the American continent. Alfalfa. Women surgeons. The blimp. Democracy in
Great Britain compared with that of the United States. The root of the Mexican problem. San
Marino. Illiteracy in the United States. How women vote.

(NOTE.--The teacher should supply additions, substitutes, and modifications.)

CHAPTER VII

PLANNING THE SPEECH

Selecting Material. It can be assumed, by the time you have reached this point in the study
and practice of making speeches, that you have words to express your thoughts and some fair
skill of delivery, that you know something about preparing various kinds of introductions and
conclusions, that you know how your own mind operates in retaining new information, and that
you know how to secure material for various purposes. Either clearly assimilated in your brain
or accurately noted upon paper you have all the ideas that are to appear in your speech.

The Length of the Speech. Look over this material again. Consider it carefully in your thoughts,
mentally deciding how long a time or how many words you will devote to each topic or entry.
Can you from such a practical consideration determine how long in time your speech will be?
Are you limited by requirements to a short time as were the Four Minute Speakers? Have you
been allotted a half hour? Will you hold your audience longer?

These may appear simple things, but they cover the first essential of planning any speech.
It should be just the correct length--neither too long nor too short. Many beginners--timid,
hesitant, untrained--will frequently fill too short a time, so that they must drill themselves
into planning longer productions. On the other hand, it may be stated, as a general criticism,
that many speakers talk too long.

A United States Senator, in order to block the vote on a bill he was opposing, decided to speak
until Congress had to adjourn, so he deliberately planned to cover a long time. He spoke for
some twenty-two hours. Of course he did not say much, nor did he talk continuously; to get
rests, he requested the clerk to call the roll, and while the list was being marked, he ate
and drank enough to sustain him. Technically his speech was uninterrupted, for he still had
the floor. Though we may not approve of such methods of legislative procedure we must see that
for this speech the first element of its plan was its length.

Keep this consideration of time always in mind. Speakers always ask how long they are to speak,
or they stipulate how much time they require. Legislative bodies frequently have limiting rules.
Courts sometimes allow lawyers so much time. A minister must fit his sermon to the length of
the service. A business man must not waste his hearers' time. A lecturer must not tire his
audience. In Congress members must be given chances to eat. In Parliament, which meets in the
evening, men grow anxious for bed.

Making the Speech too Long. The rule is fundamental, yet it is violated continually. I have
known of instances when four men, asked to present material in a meeting announced months in
advance as lasting two hours, have totally disregarded this fact, and prepared enough material
to consume over an hour each. In such cases the presiding officer should state to each that
he will be allowed exactly thirty minutes and no more. He may tap on the table after twenty-five
have elapsed to warn the speaker to pass to his conclusion, and at the expiration of the time
make him bring his remarks to a close and give way to the next speaker. There is no unfairness
in this. The real offense is committed by the speaker who proves himself so inconsiderate,
so discourteous of the conditions that he places himself in such an embarrassing circumstance.
He deserves only justice tempered by no mercy. I have heard the first of two speakers who were
to fill an hour of a commemorative service in a church talk on for an hour and ten minutes,
boring the congregation to fidgety restlessness and completely preventing the second speaker--the
more important--from delivering a single word.

Mark Twain tells how he went to church one hot night to hear a city mission worker describe
his experiences among the poor people of the crowded districts who, though they needed help,
were too modest or proud to ask for it. The speaker told of the suffering and bravery he found.
Then he pointed out that the best gifts to charity are not the advertised bounties of the wealthy
but the small donations of the less fortunate. His appeals worked Mark Twain up to great enthusiasm
and generosity. He was ready to give all he had with him--four hundred dollars--and borrow
more. The entire congregation wanted to offer all it had. But the missionary kept on talking.
The audience began to notice the heat. It became hotter and hotter. They grew more and more
uncomfortable. Mark's generosity began to shrink. It dwindled to less and less as the speech
lengthened until when the plate did finally reach him, he stole ten cents from it. He adds
that this simply proves how a little thing like a long-winded speech can induce crime.

Plan your speech so that it will be the proper length.

Discarding Material. This first consideration very likely indicates to you that you have much
more material than you can use in the time allowed or assigned you. You must discard some.
Strange as it may seem, this is one of the must difficult directions to carry out. It seems
such a waste of time and material to select for actual presentation so small a part of all
you have carefully gathered. There is always the temptation to "get it all in somehow." Yet
the direction must remain inflexible. You can use only part of it. You must carefully select
what will serve your purpose. What is the purpose of your speech? What is the character of
your audience? These two things will determine to a large extent, what and how much you must
relinquish. Your finished speech will be all the better for the weeding-out process. Better
still, in all your preliminary steps for subsequent speeches you will become skilful in selecting
while you are gathering the material itself. Finally you will become so practised that you
will not burden yourself with waste, although you will always secure enough to supply you with
a reserve supply for assurance and emergency.

Relation of Material to the Purpose of the Speech. A few examples will show the wide application
of this principle. A boy who has explained to his father the scholarship rules of his school
concerning athletes will discard a great deal of that material when he addresses a student
gathering. A speaker on child labor in a state where women have voted for a long time will
discard much of the material presented in a neighboring state where general franchise has just
been granted. If in a series of remarks you want to emphasize the thrilling experience you
have had with a large fish which jerked you out of a boat, you would not include such material
as the trip on the train to the lake where you had your adventure. Why not?

These are humble instances, but the principle of selection is the same for all speeches.

A man who was asked to lecture on Mark Twain knew the contents of the thirty published volumes
written by him, all the biographies, practically every article written about him; he had conversed
with people who had known him; he had visited scenes of his life; yet when he planned to talk
for an hour he had to reject everything except two striking periods of his life with their
effects upon his writing.

Burke, in one great effort, declared he had no intention of dealing with the right of taxation;
he confined himself merely to the expediency of Great Britain's revenue laws for America. Other
great speakers have--in their finished speeches--just as clearly indicated the plans they have
decided to follow. Such definite announcements determine the material of many introductions.

    My task will be divided under three different heads: first,
    The Crime Against Kansas, in its origin and extent; secondly,
    The Apologies for the Crime; and, thirdly, The True Remedy.

    ABRAHAM LINCOLN: Cooper Union Speech, 1860

Indicating the Plan in the Speech. In some finished and long speeches parts of the plan are
distributed to mark the divisions in the progress of the development. The next quotation shows
such an insertion.

    DANIEL WEBSTER: The Constitution Not a Compact
    between Sovereign States, 1833

Such a statement to the audience is especially helpful when the speaker is dealing with technical
subjects, or material with which most people are not usually and widely conversant. Scientific
considerations always become clearer when such plans are simply constructed, clearly announced,
and plainly followed.

    THOMAS H. HUXLEY: Lectures on Evolution, 1876

EXERCISES

1. According to what methods are the foregoing plans arranged? Which division in Sumner's speech
was the most important? Was he trying to get his listeners to do anything? What do you think
that object was?

2. In Lincoln's speech do you think he planned the material chronologically? Historically?
What reasons have you for your answer?

3. Which of Webster's four parts is the most important? Give reasons for your answer.

4. Which hypothesis (what does the word mean?) did Huxley himself support? What induces you
to think thus? Is this plan in any respect like Sumner's? Explain your answer.

5. Make a list of the ways in which material of speeches may be arranged.

Arrangement. Importance. If you have several topics to cover in a single speech where would
you put the most important? First or last? Write upon a piece of paper the position you choose.
You have given this plan some thought so you doubtlessly put down the correct position. What
did you write? First? That is usually the answer of nine pupils out of every ten. Are you with
the majority? If you wrote that the most important topic should be treated first, you are wrong.
The speech would be badly planned. Think for a moment. Which should be the most important part
of a story or a play? The beginning or the ending? If it is the early part, why should any
one read on to the end or stay for the curtain to come down the last time? So in speeches the
importance of topics should always increase as the speech proceeds. This, then, is a principle
of planning. Arrange your topics in an ascending order of importance. Work up to what is called
the climax.

The list you made in response to direction 5 given above should now be presented to the class
and its contents discussed. What kind of material is likely to be arranged according to each
of your principles? You have put down the chronological order, or the order of time, or some
similar phrase. Just what do you mean by that? Do you mean, begin with the earliest material
and follow in chronological order down to the latest? Could the reverse order ever be used?
Can you cite some instance? Is contrast a good order to follow in planning? Cite material which
could be so arranged. Would an arrangement from cause to effect be somewhat like one based
on time? Explain your answer. Under what circumstances do you think the opposite might be used--from
effect to cause?

While there are almost countless methods of arrangements--for any one used in one part of a
speech may be combined with any other in some different portion--the plan should always be
determined by three fundamental matters; the material itself, the audience to which it is to
be presented, and the effect the speaker wants to produce.

Even during this preliminary planning of the speech the author must be careful that when his
arrangement is decided upon it possesses the three qualities necessary to every good composition.
These three are unity, coherence, and emphasis.

Unity. Unity explains itself. A speech must be about one single thing. A good speech produces
one result. It induces action upon one single point. It allows no turning aside from its main
theme. It does not stray from the straight and narrow road to pick flowers in the adjacent
fields, no matter how enticing the temptation to loiter may be. In plain terms it does not
admit as part of its material anything not closely and plainly connected with it. It does not
step aside for everything that crops into the speaker's mind. It advances steadily, even when
not rapidly. It does not "back water." It goes somewhere.

To preserve unity of impression a speaker must ruthlessly discard all material except that
which is closely associated with his central intention. He must use only that which contributes
to his purpose. The same temptation to keep unrelated material--if it be good in itself--will
be felt now as when the other unsuitable material was set aside.

This does not prevent variety and relief. Illustrative and interesting minor sections may be,
at times must be, introduced. But even by their vividness and attractiveness they must help
the speech, not hinder it. The decorations and ornaments must never be allowed to detract from
the utility of the composition.

Unity may be damaged by admitting parts not in the direct line of the theme. It may be violated
by letting minor portions become too long. The illustration may grow so large by the introduction
of needless details that it makes the listeners forget the point it was designed to enforce.
Or it may be so far-fetched as to bear no real relation to the thread of development. Here
lies the pitfall of the overworked "funny," story, introduced by "that reminds me." Too often
it is not humorous enough to justify repetition; or--what is worse--it does not fit into the
circumstances. Another fault of many speakers is over-elaboration of expression, not only for
non-essentials, but in the important passages as well. Involved language demands explanation.
The attempts to clear up what should have been simply said at first may lead a speaker to devote
too many words to a single point.

This matter of unity must not be misunderstood as prohibiting the inclusion of more than one
topic in a speech. A legislator in urging the repeal of a law might have several topics, such
as how the law was passed, its first operations, its increasing burdens upon people, the disappearance
of the necessity for it, better methods of securing the same or better results, etc., yet all
grouped about the motivating theme of securing the repeal of the law. To emphasize the greatness
of a man's career a speaker might introduce such topics as his obscure origin, his unmarked
youth, the spur that stimulated his ambition, his early reverses, provided that they contribute
to the impression intended, to make vivid his real achievements.

In early attempts at delivering speeches don't be afraid to pause at certain places to consider
whether what you are about to say really contributes to the unity or destroys it. Aside from
helping you to think upon your feet, this mental exercise will help your speech by making you
pause at times--a feature of speaking often entirely disregarded by many persons.

Coherence. The second quality a finished composition should have is coherence. If you know
what cohere and cohesion mean (perhaps you have met these words in science study) you have
the germ of the term's meaning. It means "stick-together-itive-ness." The parts of a speech
should be so interrelated that every part leads up to all that follows. Likewise every part
develops naturally from all that goes before, as well as what immediately precedes. There must
be a continuity running straight through the material from start to finish. Parts should be
placed where they fit best. Each portion should be so placed--at least, in thought--that all
before leads naturally and consistently up to it, and it carries on the thread to whatever
follows. This prevents rude breaks in the development of thought. Skilfully done, it aids the
hearer to remember, because so easily did the thought in the speech move from one point to
another, that he can carry the line of its progression with him long after. So the attainment
of coherence in a speech contributes directly to that desired end--a deep impression.

Incoherent speeches are so mainly because of absence of plan, whether they be short or long,
conversational or formal.

Emphasis. The third quality a speech should have is emphasis. Applied to a connected sequence
of words this means that what is of most importance shall stand out most forcefully; that what
is not so important shall show its subordinate relation by its position, its connection with
what goes before and after; that what is least important shall receive no emphasis beyond its
just due. Such manipulation requires planning and rearranging, careful weighing of the relative
importance of all portions. Recall what was said of the place of the most important part.

Throughout the speech there must also be variety of emphasis. It would not be fitting to have
everything with a forceful emphasis upon it. To secure variation in emphasis you must remember
that in speeches the best effects will be made upon audiences by offering them slight relief
from too close attention or too impressive effects. If you observe the plans finally followed
by good speakers you will be able to see that they have obeyed this suggestion. They have the
power to do what is described as "swaying the audience." In its simplest form this depends
upon varying the emphasis.

In making an appeal for funds for destitute portions of Europe a telling topic would surely
be the sufferings of the needy. Would it be wise to dwell upon such horrors only? Would a humorous
anecdote of the happy gratitude of a child for a cast-off toy be good to produce emphasis?
Which would make the most emphatic ending--the absolute destitution, the amount to be supplied,
the relief afforded, or the happiness to donors for sharing in such a worthy charity? You can
see how a mere mental planning, or a shuffling of notes, or a temporary numbering of topics
will help in clearing up this problem of how to secure proper and effective emphasis.

Making the First Plan. It would be a helpful thing at this point in the planning to make a
pencil list of the topics to be included. This is not a final outline but a mere series of
jottings to be changed, discarded, and replaced as the author considers his material and his
speech. It is hardly more than an informal list, a scrap of paper. In working with it, don't
be too careful of appearances. Erase, cross out, interline, write in margins, draw lines and
arrows to carry portions from one place to another, crowd in at one place, remove from another,
cut the paper sheets, paste in new parts, or pin slips together. Manipulate your material.
Mold it to suit your purposes. Make it follow your plan. By this you will secure a good plan.
If this seems a great deal to do, compare it with the time and energy required to learn how
to swim, how to play a musical instrument, how to "shoot" in basketball, how to act a part
in a play.

Knowing how to speak well is worth the effort. Every time you plan a speech these steps will
merge into a continuous process while you are gathering the material. In informal discussion
upon topics you are familiar with, you will become able to arrange a plan while you are rising
to your feet.

Transitions. As this preliminary plan takes its form under your careful consideration of the
material you will decide that there are places between topics or sections which will require
bridging over in order to attain coherence and emphasis. These places of division should be
filled by transitions. A transition is a passage which carries over the meaning from what precedes
to what follows. It serves as a connecting link. It prevents the material from falling apart.
It preserves the continuity of ideas. A transition may be as short as a single word, such as
however, consequently, nevertheless. It may be a sentence. It may grow into a paragraph.

The purpose of transitions--to link parts together--may induce beginners to consider them as
of little importance since they manifestly add no new ideas to the theme. This opinion is entirely
erroneous. Even in material for reading, transitions are necessary. In material to be received
through the ear they are the most valuable helps that can be supplied to have the listener
follow the development. They mark the divisions for him. They show that a certain section is
completed and a new one is about to begin. They show the relation in meaning of two portions.

The shorter forms of transitions--words and phrases--belong rather to the expression, the language,
of the speech than to this preliminary planning.

A speaker should never fail to use such phrases as on the other hand, continuing the same line
of reasoning, passing to the next point, from a different point of view, because they so clearly
indicate the relation of two succeeding passages of a speech.

In planning, the speaker frequently has to consider the insertion of
longer transitions--paragraphs or even more extended passages. Just
how such links appear in finished speeches the following extracts
show. In the first selection Washington when he planned his material
realized he had reached a place where he could conclude. He wanted to
add more. What reason should he offer his audience for violating the
principle discussed in the chapter on conclusions? How could he make
clear to them his desire to continue? We cannot assert that he
actually did this, but he might have jotted down upon the paper
bearing a first scheme of his remarks the phrase, "my solicitude for
the people." That, then, was the germ of his transition paragraph.
Notice how clearly the meaning is expressed. Could any hearer fail to
comprehend? The transition also announces plainly the topic of the
rest of the speech. Nor can I forget, as an encouragement to it, your
    indulgent reception of my sentiment on a former and not
    dissimilar occasion.

    GEORGE WASHINGTON: Farewell Address, 1796

The next selection answers to a part of the plan announced in a passage already quoted in this
chapter. Notice how this transition looks both backward and forward: it is both retrospective
and anticipatory. If you recall that repetition helps to emphasize facts, you will readily
understand why a transition is especially valuable if it adheres to the same language as the
first statement of the plan. In a written scheme this might have appeared under the entry,
"pass from 1 to 2; list 4 apologies for crime." This suggests fully the material of the passage.

    And with this exposure I take my leave of the Crime against
    Kansas. Emerging from all the blackness of this Crime, where
    we seem to have been lost, as in a savage wood, and turning
    our backs upon it, as upon desolation and death, from which,
    while others have suffered, we have escaped, I come now to
    the Apologies which the Crime has found....

    They are four in number, and fourfold in character. The first
    is the Apology tyrannical; the second, the Apology imbecile;
    the third, the Apology absurd; and the fourth, the Apology
    infamous. That is all. Tyranny, imbecility, absurdity, and
    infamy all unite to dance, like the weird sisters, about this
    Crime.

    The Apology tyrannical is founded on the mistaken act of
    Governor Reeder, in authenticating the Usurping Legislature,
    etc.

    CHARLES SUMNER: The Crime against Kansas, 1856

The beginning speaker should not hesitate to make his transitions perfectly clear to his audience.
When they add to the merely bridging use the additional value of serving as short summaries
of what has gone before and as sign posts of what is to follow, they are trebly serviceable.
The attempt to be clear will seldom be waste of time or effort. The obvious statements of the
preceding selections, the use of figures, are excellent models for speakers to imitate. With
practice will come skill in making transitions of different kinds, in which the same purposes
will be served in various other ways, in what may be considered more finished style. The next
extracts represent this kind of transition.

    Sir, like most questions of civil prudence, this is neither
    black nor white, but gray. The system of copyright has great
    advantages and great disadvantages; and it is our business to
    ascertain what these are, and then to make an arrangement
    under which the advantages may be as far as possible secured,
    and the disadvantages as far as possible excluded. The charge
    which I bring against my honorable and learned friend's bill
    is this, that it leaves the advantages nearly what they are
    at present, and increases the disadvantages at least
    fourfold.

    BOOKER T. WASHINGTON in a speech at the Atlanta
    Exposition, 1895

Thinking before You Speak. While students may feel that the steps outlined here demand a great
deal of preparation before the final speech is delivered, the explanation may be given that
after all, this careful preparation merely carries out the homely adage--think before you speak.
If there were more thinking there would be at once better speaking. Anybody can talk. The purpose
of studying is to make one a better speaker. The anticipation of some relief may be entertained,
for it is comforting to know that after one has followed the processes here explained, they
move more rapidly, so that after a time they may become almost simultaneous up to the completion
of the one just discussed--planning the speech. It is also worth knowing that none of this
preliminary work is actually lost. Nor is it unseen. It appears in the speech itself. The reward
for all its apparent slowness and exacting deliberation is in the clearness, the significance
of the speech, its reception by the audience, its effect upon them, and the knowledge by the
speaker himself that his efforts are producing results in his accomplishments.

All speakers plan carefully for speeches long in advance.

A famous alumnus of Yale was invited to attend a banquet of Harvard graduates. Warned that
he must "speak for his dinner" he prepared more than a dozen possible beginnings not knowing
of course, in what manner the toastmaster would call upon him. The remainder of his speech
was as carefully planned, although not with so many possible choices. Note that from each possible
opening to the body of the speech he had to evolve a graceful transition.

Edmund Burke, in his great speech on conciliation with the American colonies, related that
some time before, a friend had urged him to speak upon this matter, but he had hesitated. True,
he had gone so far as to throw "my thoughts into a sort of parliamentary form"--that is, he
made a plan or an outline, but the passage of a certain bill by the House of Commons seemed
to have taken away forever the chance of his using the material. The bill, however, was returned
from the House of Lords with an amendment and in the resulting debate he delivered the speech
he had already planned.

Daniel Webster said that his reply to Hayne had been lying in his desk for months already planned,
merely waiting the opportunity or need for its delivery.

Henry Ward Beecher, whose need for preliminary preparation was reduced to its lowest terms,
and who himself was almost an instantaneous extemporizer, recognized the need for careful planning
by young speakers and warned them against "the temptation to slovenliness in workmanship, to
careless and inaccurate statement, to repetition, to violation of good taste."

Slovenliness in planning is as bad as slovenliness in expression.

EXERCISES

Choose any topic suggested in this book. Make a short preliminary plan of a speech upon it.
Present it to the class. Consider it from the following requirements:

1. Does it show clearly its intention?

2. How long will the speech be?

3. Too long? Too short?

4. For what kind of audience is it intended?

5. Has it unity?

6. Has it coherence?

7. Where are transitions most clearly needed?

8. What suggestions would you make for rearranging any parts?

9. What reasons have you for these changes?

10. Is proper emphasis secured?

CHAPTER VIII

MAKING THE OUTLINE OR BRIEF

Orderly Arrangement. A speech should have an orderly arrangement. The effect upon an audience
will be more easily made, more deeply impressed, more clearly retained, if the successive steps
of the development are so well marked, so plainly related, that they may be carried away in
a hearer's understanding. It might be said that one test of a good speech is the vividness
with which its framework is discernible. Hearers can repeat outlines of certain speeches. Those
are the best. Of others they can give merely confused reports. These are the badly constructed
ones.

The way to secure in the delivered speech this delight of orderly arrangement is by making
an outline or brief. Most pupils hate to make outlines. The reason for this repugnance is easily
understood. A teacher directs a pupil to make an outline before he writes a composition or
delivers a speech. The pupil spends hours on the list of entries, then submits his finished
theme or address. He feels that the outline is disregarded entirely. Sometimes he is not even
required to hand it to the instructor. He considers the time he has spent upon the outline
as wasted. It is almost impossible to make him feel that his finished product is all the better
because of this effort spent upon the preliminary skeleton, so that in reality his outline
is not disregarded at all, but is judged and marked as embodied in the finished article. Most
students carry this mistaken feeling about outlines to such an extent that when required to
hand in both an outline and a finished composition they will write in haphazard fashion the
composition first, and then from it try to prepare the outline, instead of doing as they are
told, and making the outline first. It is easier--though not as educating or productive of
good results--to string words together than it is to do what outline-making demands--to think.

Professional Writers' Use of Outlines. Professional writers realize the helpfulness of outline-making
and the time it saves. Many a magazine article has been sold before a word of the finished
manuscript was written. The contributor submitted an outline from which the editor contracted
for the finished production. Many a play has been placed in the same form. Books are built
up in the same manner. The ubiquitous moving-picture scenario is seldom produced in any other
manner.

Macaulay advised a young friend who asked how to keep his brain active to read a couple of
solid books, making careful outlines of their material at the same time. One of these should
be--if possible--a work in a foreign tongue, so that the strangeness of the language would
necessitate slow, careful reading and close thinking. All good students know that the best
way to prepare for an examination is to make outlines of all the required reading and study.

It is just because the making of the outline demands such careful thinking that it is one of
the most important steps in the production of a speech.

The Outline in the Finished Speech. If the outline really shows in the finished speech, let
us see if we can pick the entries out from a portion of one. Edmund Burke in 1775 tried to
prevent Great Britain from using coercive measures against the restive American colonies. Many
Englishmen were already clamoring for war when Burke spoke in Parliament upon conciliating
the Colonies.

    EDMUND BURKE: Conciliation with America, 1775

Reconstructing the Outline. In the preliminary arrangement Burke knew that he was going to
give his reasons against the use of military force. In his first plan he may not have decided
just where he was going to place his four arguments. So they very likely appeared as four topic
entries:

Against use of force.
  1. temporary
  2. uncertain
  3. damages America
  4. no experience

Notice that these are jottings to suggest the germs of the arguments. When Burke revised this
section he may have changed the expression to indicate more certainty.

Force should not be used against the colonies, because:
  1. it is only temporary
  2. it is uncertain in its results
  3. it would damage the wealth of the colonies
  4. it is based on no experience of Great Britain with
     colonies

Of course, a practised statesman would not have to analyze farther, perhaps not so far, but
to illustrate for a student how he might build up his outline, let us analyze one degree farther.
Just what is meant by such terms as temporary, uncertain? Under each statement, then, might
be added a detailed explanation. The finished part of the outline would then appear somewhat
like this.

Force should not be used against the colonies, because:
  1. it is only temporary, for
    a. though it subdue for a time, it would have to
       be used again.

    2. it is uncertain in its results, for
       a. Great Britain might not subdue the colonies.

    3. it would damage the wealth of the colonies, for
       a. we would fight to retain a wealthy land, yet
         after the war we should have a ruined one.

    4. it is based on no experience of Great Britain with
       colonies, for
       a. Great Britain has always been indulgent
          rather than severely strict.

Speaking or writing from such a detailed outline as this, consider how much thinking has already
been done. With these entries under his eye the speaker need think only of the phrasing of
his remarks. He would feel perfectly certain that he would not wander from his theme. Notice
how the ideas can be emphasized. The suggestion of damage can be expressed in impair the object,
and in depreciated, sunk, wasted, consumed.

So far this outline--though it covers all its own material--does not indicate the place at
which it shall be used in the speech. It could be used near the conclusion where Burke planned
to answer all the supporters of plans other than his own. That would be a good place for it.
But Burke found a better one. He separated this from his other remarks against his opponents,
and brought it in much earlier, thereby linking it with what it most concerned, emphasizing
it, and disposing of it entirely so far as his speech was concerned. He had just enumerated
the wealth of the colonies as represented by their commerce. He knew that the war party would
argue, "If America is so wealthy, it is worth fighting for." That was the place, then, to refute
them. To introduce his material he had to make clear the transition from the colonial wealth
to his arguments. Notice how plainly the first paragraph quoted here does this. Having given
his four reasons against the use of force, notice that he must bring his audience back to the
theme he has been discussing. The last paragraph does this in a masterly manner. He has cited
two facts about the colonies. To make understanding doubly certain he repeats them--population
and commerce--and passes to the next, plainly numbering it as the third.

This recital of the process is not an account of what actually took place in Burke's preparation,
but it will give to the student the method by which great speakers may have proceeded; we do
know that many did follow such a scheme. No amateur who wants to make his speeches worth listening
to should omit this helpful step of outline or brief making. Whether he first writes out his
speeches in full, or composes them upon his feet, every speaker should prepare an outline or
brief of his material. This is a series of entries, so condensed and arranged as to show the
relative significance of all the parts of the speech in the proper order of development.

Outline, Brief, Legal Brief. An outline contains entries which are merely topics, not completed
statements or sentences.

A brief contains completed statements (sentences).

A legal brief is a formally prepared document (often printed) submitted to a certain court
before a case is tried, showing the material the lawyer intends to produce, citing all his
authorities, suggesting interpretations of laws and legal decisions to support his contentions,
and giving all his conclusions. It is prepared for the use of the court, to reduce the labor
in examining records, etc. Practice in the drawing up of such briefs is an important phase
of legal study.

The Outline. An outline may recall to a person's mind what he already has learned, but it is
seldom definite and informative enough to be as helpful as a brief. A good distinction of the
two--besides the one respecting the forms already given--is that the outline represents the
point of view of the speaker while the brief represents that of the hearer. Consider again
the analyses of Burke in this chapter. Notice that the first list does not give nearly so clear
an idea of what Burke actually said as the third. A person seeing only the first might guess
at what the speaker intended to declare. A person who looked at the third could not fail to
know exactly the opinions of the speaker and the arguments supporting them.

Pupils frequently make this kind of entry:

Introduction--Time
              Place
              Characters

The main objections to such an outline are that it tells nothing definite, and that it might
fit a thousand compositions. Even an outline should say more than such a list does.

In one edition of Burke's speech the page from which the following is quoted is headed "Brief."
Is it a brief?

Part II. How to deal with America.

  A. Introduction.
  B. First alternative and objections.
  C. Second alternative and objections.
  D. Third alternative.
  E. Introduction.
  F. Considerations.

      1. Question one of policy, not of abstract right.
      2. Trade laws.
      3. Constitutional precedents.
      4. Application of these.

The Brief. One of the shortest briefs on record was prepared by Abraham Lincoln for use in
a suit to recover $200 for the widow of a Revolutionary veteran from an agent who had retained
it out of $400 pension money belonging to her. It formed the basis of his speech in court.

    No contract.--Not professional services.--Unreasonable
    charge.--Money retained by Def't not given to
    Pl'ff.--Revolutionary War.--Describe Valley Forge
    privations.--Pl'ff's husband.--Soldier leaving for
    army.--Skin Def't.--Close.

The following will give some idea of the form and definiteness of briefs for debate.

CAPITAL PUNISHMENT

Resolved: That capital punishment should be abolished.[1]

Brief for the Affirmative

I. Capital punishment is inexpedient.
  (a) It is contrary to the tendency of civilization.
  (b) It fails to protect society.
      (1) It does not prevent murder.
      (2) New crimes follow hard on executions.
  (c) It makes punishment uncertain.
      (1) Many criminals are acquitted who would
          be convicted if the penalty were imprisonment.
  (d) It is not reformatory.

II. Capital punishment is immoral.
  (a) It rests on the old idea of retribution.
  (b) It tends to weaken the sacredness of human life.
  (c) It endangers the lives of innocent people.
  (d) Executions and the sensational newspaper
        accounts which follow have a corrupting influence.

III. Capital punishment is unjust.
  (a) Its mistakes are irremediable.
  (b) Many men are criminals from force of
        circumstances.
      (1) From heredity.
      (2) From environment.
  (c) Inequalities in administration are marked.
      (1) In some states men are hung, in others
        imprisoned for the same crime.

[Footnote 1: Taken from Brookings and Ringwalt: Briefs for Debate, Longmans, Green and Co.,
where specific references of material for many of the topics are given, as well as general
references for the entire subject.]

      (2) Many jurors have conscientious scruples
        against condemning a man to death.
      (3) Men of wealth and influence are rarely
        convicted.

IV. The abolition of capital punishment has been followed
    by satisfactory results,
  (a) In Europe.
      (1) Russia.
      (2) Switzerland.
      (3) Portugal.
      (4) Belgium.
      (5) Holland.
      (6) Finland.
  (b) In the United States.
      (1) Michigan.
      (2) Rhode Island.
      (3) Maine.
      (4) Wisconsin.

Brief for the Negative

I. Capital punishment is permissible.
  (a) It has the sanction of the Bible.
      (1) Genesis ix, 2-6.
  (b) It has the sanction of history.
      (1) It has been in vogue since the beginning
        of the world.
  (c) It has the sanction of reason.
      (1) The most fitting punishment is one equal
        and similar to the injury inflicted.

II. Capital punishment is expedient.
  (a) It is necessary to protect society from anarchy
      and private revenge.
      (1) Death is the strongest preventative of
        crime.
  (b) No sufficient substitute has been offered.
      (1) Life imprisonment is a failure.
      (2) Few serve the sentence.
  (c) Its abolition has not been successful.
      (1) In Rhode Island.
      (2) In Michigan.
III. The objections made to capital punishment are not
     sound.
  (a) Prisons are not reformatory.
  (b) The fact that crimes have decreased in some
      places where executions have stopped is
      not a valid argument.
      (1) All causes which increase the moral well-being
        of the race decrease crime.
  (c) The objection that the innocent suffer is not
      strong.
      (1) The number of innocent thus suffering is
        inconsiderable when compared with the
        great number of murders prevented.
  (d) The objection that the penalty is uncertain may
      be overcome by making it certain.

A few paragraphs back it was said that an outline or brief shows the relative significance
of all the parts of a speech. This is done by a systematic use of margins and symbols. From
the quoted forms in this chapter certain rules can easily be deduced.

Margins. The speech will naturally divide into a few main parts. These can be designated by
spaces and general titles such as introduction, body, development, main argument, answer to
opposing views, conclusion. Other captions will be suggested by various kinds of material.
Main topics next in importance are placed the farthest to the left, making the first margin.
A reader can run his eye down this line and pick out all the main topics of equal importance.
Entries just subordinate to these are put each on a separate line, starting slightly to the
right. This separation according to connection and value is continued as long as the maker
has any minor parts to represent in the brief. It should not be carried too far, however, for
the purpose of the entries is to mark clearness and accuracy. If the helping system becomes
too elaborate and complicated it destroys its own usefulness.

It is perfectly plain that such an outline might be made and be quite clear, without the addition
of any symbols at all, especially if it was short.

Discrimination in the use of words is secured by

The study of synonyms
             antonyms
             homonyms
and care in employing them.

Symbols. Some scheme of marking the entries is a great help. There is no fixed system. Every
student may choose from among the many used. If there are many main topics it might be a mistake
to use Roman numerals (I, XVIII) as few people can read them quickly enough to follow their
sequence. Capital letters may serve better to mark the sequences, but they do not indicate
the numerical position. For instance, most of us do not know our alphabets well enough to translate
a main topic marked N into the fourteenth point. By combinations of Roman numerals, capitals,
usual (Arabic) numerals, small letters, parentheses, enough variety to serve any student purpose
can easily be arranged.

The following are samples of systems used.

            Specimen 1

    Introduction
    Argument

I--------------------------------------------------
  A------------------------------------------------
    1----------------------------------------------
      a--------------------------------------------
      b--------------------------------------------
      c--------------------------------------------
        (1)----------------------------------------
        (2)----------------------------------------
        (3)----------------------------------------
    2----------------------------------------------
  B------------------------------------------------
    1----------------------------------------------
    2----------------------------------------------
II-------------------------------------------------
    Conclusion

            Specimen 2

A--------------------------------------------------
  I------------------------------------------------
    a----------------------------------------------
      1--------------------------------------------
      2--------------------------------------------
    b----------------------------------------------
  II-----------------------------------------------
    a----------------------------------------------
    b----------------------------------------------
    c----------------------------------------------
      1--------------------------------------------
      2--------------------------------------------
      3--------------------------------------------

            Specimen 3

1--------------------------------------------------
  1^1----------------------------------------------
  2^1----------------------------------------------
    a^1--------------------------------------------
    b^1--------------------------------------------
    c^1--------------------------------------------
2--------------------------------------------------
  1^2----------------------------------------------
  2^2----------------------------------------------
    a^2--------------------------------------------
    b^2--------------------------------------------
    c^2--------------------------------------------
3--------------------------------------------------
  1^3----------------------------------------------
  2^3----------------------------------------------

Tabulations. With unusual kinds of material and for special purposes there may be value in
evolving other forms of outlines. A technically trained person accustomed to reading tabulated
reports with hosts of figures to interpret might find a statistical statement at times better
suited to his needs. Such tabulations are not any easier to prepare than the regular brief.
In fact to most people they are infinitely more difficult to get into form and almost beyond
speedy comprehension afterwards. The following is a good illustration of a simple one well
adapted to the speaker's purpose--a report of the objections to the first published covenant
of the League of Nations. He knew the material of his introduction and conclusion so well that
he did not represent them in his carefully arranged sheet. The form was submitted as regular
work in a public speaking class and was spoken from during more than forty minutes.

CRITICISMS OF PROPOSED COVENANT OF LEAGUE OF NATIONS

1.--Draft indefinite and loosely written. Lg Lo Sp Tt Br Hu
2.--Should have clause-limiting powers
        to those specifically granted.       Lo
3.--Proportion of votes required for
        action of Council not generally
        stated--should be unanimous.      Lg    Sp Tt    Hu
4.--Should have clause reserving the
        Monroe Doctrine.                  Lg Lo Sp Tt Br Hu
5.--Should state that no nation can be
        required to become a mandatory
        without its consent.              Lg Lo       Br Hu
6.--Should have provision for
        withdrawals.                      Lg Lo Sp Tt    Hu
7.--Jurisdiction of League over internal
        affairs (immigration, tariffs,
        coastwise trade) should be
        expressly excluded.               Lg          Br Hu
8.--Terms of admission of other nations
        too strict.                                   Br
9.--Basis of representation not fair.                 Br
10.--Provision should be made for
        expansion of nations by peaceable
        means.                                        Br
11.--Each nation should have right to
        decide whether it will follow
        advice of Council as to use of
        force.                                        Br
12.--Each nation should have right to
        determine whether it will boycott
        delinquent nations.                           Br
     Note:--items 11 and 12 are apparently
        directed against Art.
        XVI containing the Ipso Facto
        clause and Art. X.
13.--Should not guarantee the integrity
        and independence of all members
        of the league.                    Lg             Hu

Above criticisms taken from published statements of

  Messrs. Lodge
          Lowell
          Spencer
          Taft
          Bryan
          Hughes
(denoted respectively Lg, Lo, Sp, Tt, Br and Hu).

Authorities in the Brief. Authorities for the statements made in the brief may be put into
parentheses, if they are to be included. Such further devices will suggest themselves to students.
In addition to such markings as here listed, some men who use many outlines emphasize upon
them details which they may have to find quickly by underlining the symbol or first word with
colored pencil. Such a device is especially valuable to a technical expert whose system could
be uniform through the outlines of all his reports, etc. Or a lecturer with so much time to
fill may mark upon the outline 1/4, 1/2, 3/4, to indicate to himself that his material is being
covered at a proper rate to correspond with the time. He might put in 15 min. or 30 min. or
45 min. if he was to speak for an hour. The first division is the better, for he might be required
to condense a twenty-minute speech to ten.

Selections for Briefing. Before the student makes many briefs of his own he should work in
the other direction by outlining material already in existence so that he can be assured he
knows main topics from minor ones, important issues from subordinate reasons, headings from
examples. If all the members of the class outline the same material the resulting discussion
will provide additional exercise in speaking in explanation or support of an interpretation.
After the teacher and class together have made one, the students should work independently.

EXERCISES

Besides the extracts quoted here others should be supplied. Editorials from a single issue
of a newspaper can easily be secured by the entire class for this work. A chapter from a book
may be assigned.

1.  INCIDENTS OF GOVERNMENT TRADING

    An expert before the President's street railway commission of
    inquiry testified that he disapproved of public ownership and
    operation theoretically, but approved it practically, because
    it was the quickest and surest way of making people sick of
    it. Otherwise he thought that education of the public out of
    its favor for high costs and low profits by public utilities
    would require a generation, and the present emergency calls
    for prompt relief.

    New York City has just resolved to build with its own funds a
    Coney Island bathhouse, and has on file an offer to build it
    with private money at a cost of $300,000, with a guarantee of
    15-cent baths. Accepting no responsibility for the merits of
    the private bidder's proposal, it does not appear likely that
    the city can supply cheaper baths or give more satisfaction
    to bathers than a management whose profits were related to
    its efforts to please patrons. On the other hand, it is sure
    that the city's financial embarrassment is due to supplying
    many privileges at the cost of the taxpayers, which might
    have been supplied both more cheaply and better by private
    enterprise with profit than by the city without profit, and
    with the use of ill-spared public funds.

    New York does not stand alone in these misadventures, which
    are warnings against trading by either local or national
    government. Take, for example, the manner in which the army
    is disposing of its surplus blankets, as reported from
    Boston. A Chicago firm which wished to bid was permitted to
    inspect three samples of varying grades, but a guarantee that
    the goods sold would correspond to the samples was refused.
    The bales could neither be opened nor allowed to be opened,
    nor would information be given whether the blankets in the
    bales were cotton, wool, or mixed, whether single or double,
    whether bed blankets or regulation army blankets. The
    likelihood that the Government will get the worth of its
    blankets is small. There may be unknown reasons for such
    uncommercial procedure, but what shall be said of the fact
    that at the same time that these blankets are being sold the
    Interior Department is asking for bids to supply 10,000
    blankets for the Indians? The reason for buying more when
    there is an embarrassing over-supply is that the
    specifications call for the words "Interior Department" to be
    woven into the blankets. To an outsider it would seem that
    the words might be indelibly stamped on the old blankets of
    similar description, and that the departure from custom would
    be better than the loss on the old blankets and the increased
    expenditure for the new blankets.

    The reason for mentioning such incidents is that there are so
    many more of which the public never hears. Their combined
    educative effect would be great, but it is wasted without
    publicity. Since the public is not unanimous against public
    ownership and operation, there must be a considerable number
    of persons who are proof against anything but a catastrophe
    greater than the prostration of the railway and utility
    industries. That is an expansive way of education, but
    perhaps Dr. Cooley, Dean of the University of Michigan, is
    right in his view that the method is necessary to prevent a
    greater calamity by persistence in the error.

    New York Times, July 21, 1919

