INFORMANTS

McClendon, Charlie McCloud, Lizzie McConico, Avalena McCoy, Ike McDaniel, Richard H. McIntosh,
Waters Mack, Cresa McKinney, Warren McMullen, Victoria Madden, Nannie P. Madden, Perry Mann,
Lewis Martin, Angeline Martin, Josie Mathis, Bess Matthews, Caroline Maxwell, Malindy Maxwell,
Nellie May, Ann Mayes, Joe Meeks, Rev. Jesse Metcalf, Jeff Miller, Hardy Miller, Henry Kirk
Miller, Matilda Miller, Nathan Miller, Sam Miller, W.D. Minser, Mose Minton, Gip Mitchell,
A.J. Mitchell, Gracie Mitchell, Hettie Mitchell, Mary Mitchell, Moses Moon, Ben Moore, Emma
Moore, Patsy Moorehead, Ada Mooreman, Mary Jane (Mattie) Morgan, Evelina Morgan, James Morgan,
Olivia Morgan, Tom Morris, Charity Morris, Emma Moss, Claiborne Moss, Frozie Moss, Mose Mullins,
S.O. Murdock, Alex Myers, Bessie Myhand, Mary Myrax, Griffin

Neal, Tom Wylie Nealy (Neely), Sally Nealy, Wylie Neland, Emaline Nelson, Henry Nelson, Iran
Nelson, James Henry Nelson, John Nelson, Lettie Nelson, Mattie Newborn, Dan Newsom, Sallie
Newton, Pete Norris, Charlie

Oats, Emma Odom, Helen Oliver, Jane Osborne, Ivory Osbrook, Jane

Page, Annie Parker, Fannie Parker, J.M. Parker, Judy Parker, R.F. Parks, Annie Parnell, Austin
Pen Parr, Ben Patterson, Frank A. Patterson, John Patterson, Sarah Jane Pattillo, Solomon P.
Patton, Carry Allen Payne, Harriett McFarlin Payne, John Payne, Larkin Perkins, Cella Perkins,
Marguerite (Maggie) Perkins, Rachel Perry, Dinah Peters, Alfred Peters, Mary Estes Peterson,
John Pettis, Louise Pettus, Henry C. Phillips, Dolly Piggy, Tony Pittman, Ella Pittman, Sarah
Poe, Mary Pollacks, W.L. Pope, John (Doc) Porter, William Potter, Bob Prayer, Louise

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Charlie McClendon
                    708 E. Fourth Avenue, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 77

"I don't know exactly how old I am. I was six or seven when the war ended. I member dis--my
mother said I was born on Christmas day. Old master was goin' to war and he told her to take
good care of that boy--he was goin' to make a fine little man.

"Did I live up to it? I reckon I was bout as smart a man as you could jump up. The work didn't
get too hard for me. I farmed and I sawmilled a lot. Most of my time was farmin'.

"I been in Jefferson County all my life. I went to school three or four sessions.

"About the war, I member dis--I member they carried us to Camden and I saw the guards. I'd
say, 'Give me a pistol.' They'd say, 'Come back tomorrow and we'll give you one.' They had
me runnin' back there every day and I never did get one. They was Yankee soldiers.

"Our folks' master was William E. Johnson. Oh Lord, they was just as good to us as could be
to be under slavery.

"After they got free my people stayed there a year or two and then our master broke up and
went back to South Carolina and the folks went in different directions. Oh Lord, my parents
sho was well treated. Yes ma'm. If he had a overseer, he wouldn't low him to whip the folks.
He'd say, 'Just leave em till I come home.' Then he'd give em a light breshin'.

"My father run off and stay in the woods one or two months. Old master say, 'Now, Jordan, why
you run off? Now I'm goin' to give you a light breshin' and don't you run off again.' But he'd
run off again after awhile.

"He had one man named Miles Johnson just stayed in the woods so he put him on the block and
sold him.

"I seed the Ku Klux. We colored folks had to make it here to Pine Bluff to the county band.
If the Rebels kotch you, you was dead.

"Oh Lord yes, I voted. I voted the Publican ticket, they called it. You know they had this
Australia ballot. You was sposed to go in the caboose and vote. They like to scared me to death
one time. I had a description of the man I wanted to vote for in my pocket and I was lookin'
at it so I'd be sure to vote for the right man and they caught me. They said, 'What you doin'
there? We're goin' to turn you over to the sheriff after election!' They had me scared to death.
I hid out for a long time till I seed they wasn't goin' to do nothin'.

"My wife's brother was one of the judges of the election. Some of the other colored folks was
constables and magistrates--some of em are now--down in the country.

"I knew a lot about things but I knew I was in the United States and had to bow to the law.
There was the compromise they give the colored folks--half of the offices and then they got
em out afterwards. John M. Clayton was runnin' for the senate and say he goin' to see the colored
people had equal rights, but they killed him as he was gwine through the country speakin'.

"The white people have treated me very well but they don't pay us enough for our work--just
enough to live on and hardly that. I can say with a clear conscience that if it hadn't been
for this relief, I don't know what I'd do--I'm not able to work. I'm proud that God Almighty
put the spirit in the man (Roosevelt) to help us."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Lizzie McCloud
                    1203 Short 13th Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 120?

"I was one of 'em bless your heart. Yes ma'm, Yes ma'm, I wouldn't tell you a lie 'bout that.
If I can't tell you the truth I'm not goin' tell you nothin'!

"Oh yes, I was a young lady in slavery times--bred and born in Tennessee. Miss Lizzie and Marse
John Williams--I belonged to them--sho did! I was scared to death of the white folks. Miss
Lizzie--she mean as the devil. She wouldn't step her foot on the ground, she so rich. No ma'm
wouldn't put her foot on the ground. Have her carriage drive up to the door and have that silk
carpet put down for her to walk on. Yes Lord. Wouldn't half feed us and they went and named
me after her.

"I know all about the stars fallin'. I was out in the field and just come in to get our dinner.
Got so dark and the stars begin to play aroun'. Mistress say, 'Lizzie, it's the judgment.'
She was just a hollerin'. Yes ma'm I was a young woman. I been here a long time, yes ma'm,
I been here a long time. Worked and whipped, too. I run off many a time. Run off to see my
mammy three or four miles from where I was.

"I never was sold but they took we young women and brought us down in the country to another
plantation where they raised corn, wheat, and hay. Overseer whipped us too. Marse John had
a brother named Marse Andrew and he was a good man. He'd say to the overseer, 'Now don't whip
these girls so much, they can't work.' Oh, he was a good man. Oh, white folks was the devil
in slavery tines. I was scared to death of 'em. They'd have these long cow hide whips. Honey,
I was treated bad. I seen a time in this world.

"Oh Lord, yes, that was long 'fore the war. I was right down on my master's place when it started.
They said it was to free the niggers. Oh Lord, we was right under it in Davidson County where
I come from. Oh Lord, yes, I knowed all about when the war started. I'se a young woman, a young
woman. We was treated just like dogs and hogs. We seed a hard time--I know what I'm talkin' about.

"Oh God, I seed the Yankees. I saw it all. We was so scared we run under the house and the
Yankees called 'Come out Dinah' (didn't call none of us anything but Dinah). They said 'Dinah,
we're fightin' to free you and get you out from under bondage.' I sure understood that but
I didn't have no better sense than to go back to mistress.

"Oh Lord, yes, I seed the Ku Klux. They didn't bother me cause I didn't stay where they could;
I was way under the house.

"Yankees burned up everything Marse John had. I looked up the pike and seed the Yankees a coming'.
They say 'We's a fightin' for you, Dinah!' Yankees walked in, chile, just walked right in on
us. I tell you I've seed a time. You talkin' 'bout war--you better wish no more war come. I
know when the war started. The Secessors on this side and the Yankees on that side. Yes, Miss,
I seen enough. My brother went and jined the Secessors and they killed him time he got in the war.

"No, Missy, I never went to no school. White folks never learned me nothin'. I believes in
tellin' white folks the truth.

"White folks didn't 'low us to marry so I never married till I come to Arkansas and that was
one year after surrender.

"First place I landed on was John Clayton's place. Mr. John Clayton was a Yankee and he was
good to us. We worked in the field and stayed there two years. I been all up and down the river
and oh Lord, I had a good time after I was free. I been treated right since I was free. My
color is good to me and the white folks, too. I ain't goin' to tell only the truth. Uncle Sam
goin' send me 'cross the water if I don't tell the truth. Better not fool with dat man!" I
been wonderin' 'bout you. Yes Lawd. You sure is lookin' fine.

"Yes, honey, I was bred and bawn in Davidson County, Tennessee. Come here one year after surrender.

"My daughter there was a baby jus' sittin' alone, now, sittin' alone when I come here to this
Arkansas. I know what I'm talkin' about.

"Lizzie Williams, my old missis, was rich as cream. Yes Lawd! I know all about it 'cause I
worked for 'em.

"I was a young missis when the War started. I was workin' for my owners then. I knowed when
they was free--when they said they was free.

"The Yankees wouldn't call any of the colored women anything but Dinah. I didn't know who they
was till they told us. Said, 'Dinah, we's comin' to free you.'

"The white folks didn't try to scare us 'bout the Yankees 'cause they was too scared theirselves.
Them Yankees wasn't playin'; they was fitin'. Yes, Jesus!

"Had to work hard--and whipped too. Wasn't played with. Mars Andrew come in the field a heap
a times and say, 'Don't whip them women so hard, they can't work.' I thought a heap of Mars Andrew.

"I used to see the Yankees ridin' hosses and them breastplates a shining'. Yes Lawd. I'd run
and they'd say, 'Dinah, we ain't gwine hurt you.' Lawd, them Yankees didn't care for nothin'.
Oh, they was fine.

"My husband was a soldier--a Yankee. Yes ma'am. They sends me thirty dollars every month, before
the fourth. Postman brings it right to me here at the house. They treats me nice.

"When I come here, I landed on John Clayton's place. He was a Yankee and he was a good white
man too.

"I'm the onliest one left now in my family."

Interviewer: Mrs. Irene Robertson
Person Interviewed: Avalena McConico
                    on the [TR: ---- ----] west of Brinkley, Arkansas
Age: 40[TR: ?]
[TR: Much of this interview smeared and difficult to decipher;
     illegible words indicated by "----", questionable words
     followed by "?".]

"Grandma was a slave woman. Her name was Emma Harper. She was born in Chesterville, Mississippi.
Her young master was Jim and Miss Corrie Burton. The old man was John Burton. I aimed[?] to
see them once. I seen both Miss Corrie and Mr. Jim. My grandparents was never sold. They left
out after freedom. They stayed there a long time but they left.

"The first of the War was like dis: Our related folks was having a dance. The Yankees come
in and was dancing. Some "fry boys" [---- ----] them. The next day they were all in the field
and heard something. They went to the house and told the white folks there was [----] a fire.
They heard it. [----] he [----] about. Master told them it was war. Miss Burton was crying.
They heard about [----] in [----] at Harrisburg where they could hear the shooting.

"They put the slaves to digging. They dug two weeks. They buried their meat and money and a
whole heap of things. They never found it. A little white,[?] Mollita[?], was out where they
were digging. She went in the house. She said, Mama, is the devil coming? They said he was."
Master had them come to him. He questioned them. They told him they got so tired [----] of
them said he [----] he [---- ----] the [----] Yankees come he'd tell them where all this was,
but he was just talking. But when the Yankees did come they was so scared they never got close
to a Yankee. They was scared to death. They never found the meat and money. They [----] and
cut the turkeys' heads off and the turkey fell off the rail fence, the head drop on one side
and the body on the other. They milked a cow and cut both hind quarters off and leave the rest
of the cow there and the cow not dead yet.

"Mr. South[?] Strange at Chesterville, Mississippi had a pony named Zane. The Yankees hemmed
him and four more men in at Malone Creek and killed the four men. Zane rared up on hind legs
and went up a steep cliff and ran three miles. Mr. Strange's coat was cut off from him. It
was a gray coat. Mr. Strange was a white man.

"Uncle Frank Jones was forty years old when they gathered him up out of the woods and put him
in the battle lines. All the runaway black folks in the woods was hunted out and put in the
Yankee lines. Uncle Frank lived in a cave up till about then. His master made him mean. He
got better as he got old. His master would sell him and tell him to run away and come back
to his cave. He'd feed him. He never worked and he went up for his provisions. He was sold
over and over and over. His master learnt him in books and to how to cuss. He learnt him how
to trick the dogs and tap trees like a coon. At the end of the trail the dogs would turn on
the huntsman. Uncle Frank was active when he was old. He was hired out to race other boys sometimes.
He never wore glasses. He could see well when he was old. He told me he was raised out from
England, Arkansas.

"When freedom was told 'em Uncle Frank said all them in the camps hollered and danced, and
marched and sung. They was so glad the War was done and so glad they been freed.

"Grandma was sold in South Carolina to Mississippi and sold again to Dr. Shelton. Now that
was my father's father and mother. She said they rode and walked all the way. They came on
ox wagons. She said on the way they passed some children. They was playing. A little white
boy was up in a persimmon tree settin' on a limb eating persimmons. He was so pretty and clean.
Grandma says, 'You think you is some pumpkin, don't you, honey child.' He says, 'Some pumpkin
and some 'simmon too.' Grandma was a house girl. She got to keep her baby and brought him.
He was my father. Uncle was born later. Then they was freed. Grandma lived to be ninety-five
years old. Mrs. Dolphy Wooly and Mrs. Shelton was her young mistresses. They kept her till
she died. They kept her well.

"Grandma told us about freedom. She was hired out to the Browns to make sausage and dry out
lard. Five girls was in the field burning brush. They was white girls--Mrs. Brown's girls.
They come to the house and said some Blue Coats come by and said, 'You free.' They told them
back, 'That's no news, we was born free.' Grandma said that night she melted pewter and made
dots on her best dress. It was shiny. She wore it home next day 'cause she was free, and she
never left from about her own white folks till she died and left them.

"Times seem very good on black folks till hard cold winter and spring come, then times is mighty,
mighty bad. It is so hard to keep warm fires and enough to eat. Times have been good. Black
folks in the young generation need more heart training and less book learning. Times is so
fast the young set is too greedy. They is wasteful too. Some is hard workers and tries to live
right.

"I wash and irons and keep a woman's little chile so she can work. I owns my home."

Interviewer: Mrs. Irene Robertson
Person Interviewed: Ike McCoy, Biscoe, Arkansas
Age: 65
[TR: Illegible words indicated by "----",
     questionable words followed by "?".]

"My parents named Harriett and Isaac McCoy. Far as I knew they was natives of North Kaline
(Carolina). He was a farmer. He raised corn and cabbage, a little corn and wheat. He had tasks
at night in winter I heard him say. She muster just done anything. She knit for us here in
the last few years. She died several years ago. Now my oldest sister was born in slavery. I
was next but I came way after slavery.

"In war time McCoys hid their horses in the woods. The Yankees found them and took all the
best ones and left their [----] (nags). Old boss man McCoy hid in the closet and locked himself
up. The Yankees found him, broke in on him and took him out and they nearly killed him  beating
him so bad. He told all of 'em on the place he was going off. They wore him out. He didn't
live long after that.

"Things got lax. I heard her say one man sold all his slaves. The War broke out. They run away
and went back to him. She'd see 'em pass going back home. They been sold and wouldn't stay.
Folks got to running off to war. They thought it look like a frolic. I heard some of them say
they wish they hadn't gone off to war 'fore it was done. Niggers didn't know that[TR: ?] war
no freedom was 'ceptin' the Yankees come tell them something and then they couldn't understand
how it all be. Black folks was mighty ignant then. They is now for that matter. They look to
white folks for right kind of doings[?].

"Ma said every now and then see somebody going back to that man tried to get rid of them. They
traveled by night and beg along from black folks. In daytime they would stay in the woods so
the pettyrollers wouldn't run up on them. The pettyrollers would whoop 'em if they catch 'em.

"Ma told about one day the Yankees come and made the white women came help the nigger women
cook up a big dinner. Ma was scared so bad she couldn't see nothing she wanted. She said there
was no talking. They was too scared to say a word. They sot the table and never a one of them
told 'em it was ready.

"She said biscuits so scarce after the War they took 'em 'round in their pockets to nibble
on they taste so good.

"I was eighteen years old when pa and ma took the notion to come out here. All of us come but
one sister had married, and pa and one brother had a little difference. Pa had children ma
didn't have. They went together way after slavery. We got transportation to Memphis by train
and took a steamboat to Pillowmount. That close to Forrest City. Later on I come to Biscoe.
They finally come too.

"I been pretty independent all my life till I getting so feeble. I work a sight now. I'm making
boards to kiver my house out at the lot now. I goiner get somebody to kiver it soon as I get
my boards made.

"We don't get no PWA aid 'ceptin' for two orphant babies we got. They are my wife's sister's
little boys.

"Well sir-ree, folks could do if the young ones would. Young folks don't have no consideration
for the old wore-out parents. They dance and drink it bodaciously out on Saturday ebening and
about till Sunday night. I may be wrong but I sees it thater way. Whan we get old we get helpless.
I'm getting feebler every year. I see that. Times goiner be hard ag'in this winter and next
spring. Money is scarce now for summer time and craps laid by. I feels that my own self now.
Every winter times get tough."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Richard H. McDaniel, Brinkley, Arkansas
Age: 73

"I was born in Newton County, Mississippi the first year of the surrender. I don't think my
mother was sold and I know my father was never sold. Jim McDaniel raised my father and one
sister after his mother died. One sister was married when she died. I heard him say when he
got mad he would quit work. He said old master wouldn't let the mistress whoop him and she
wouldn't let him whoop my father. My father was a black man but my mother was light. Her father
was a white man and her mother part Indian and white mixed, so what am I? My mother was owned
by people named Wash. Dick Wash was her young master. My parents' names was Willis and Elsie
McDaniel. When it was freedom I heard them say Moster McDaniel told them they was free. He
was broke. If they could do better go on, he didn't blame them, he couldn't promise them much
now. They moved off on another man's place to share crop. They had to work as hard and didn't
have no more than they had in slavery. That is what they told me. They could move around and
visit around without asking. They said it didn't lighten the work none but it lightened the
rations right smart. Moster McDaniel nor my father neither one went to war.

"From the way I always heard it, the Ku Klux was the law like night watchman. When I was a
boy there was a lot of stealing and bushwhacking. Folks meet you out and kill you, rob you,
whoop you. A few of the black men wouldn't work and wanted to steal. That Ku Klux was the law
watching around. Folks was scared of em. I did see them. I would run hide.

"I farmed up till 1929. Then I been doing jobs. I worked on relief till they turned me off,
said I was too old to work but they won't give me the pension. I been trying to figure out
what I am to do. Lady, could you tell me? Work at jobs when I can get them.

"I allus been voting till late years. If they let some folks vote in the first lection, they
would be putting in somebody got no business in the gover'ment. All the fault I see in white
folks running the gover'ment is we colored folks ain't got work we can do all the time to live
on. I thought all the white folks had jobs what wanted jobs. The conditions is hard for old
men like me. I pay $3 for a house every month. It is a cold house.

"This present generation is living a fast life. What all don't they do?"

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Waters McIntosh
                    1900 Howard Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 76

"I was born July 4, 1862 at 2:08 in the morning at Lynchburg, Sumter County, South Carolina.

Parents

"My mother was named Lucy Sanders. My father was named Sumter Durant. Our owner was Dr. J.M.
Sanders, the son of Mr. Bartlett Sanders. Sumter Durant was a white man. My mother was fourteen
years old when I was born I was her second child. Durant was in the Confederate army and was
killed during the War in the same year I was born, and before my birth.

Sold

"When I was a year old, my mother was sold for $1500 in gold, and I was sold for $500 in gold
to William Carter who lived about five miles south of Cartersville. The payment was made in
fine gold. I was sold because my folk realized that freedom was coming and they wanted to obtain
the cash value of their slaves.

Name

"My name is spelled 'Waters' but it is pronounced 'Waiters.' When I was born, I was thought
to be a very likely child and it was proposed that I should be a waiter. Therefore I was called
Waters (but it was pronounced Waiters). They did not spell it w-a-i-t-e-r-s, but they pronounced
it that way.

How Freedom Came

"My mother said that they had been waiting a long time to hear what had become of the War,
perhaps one or two weeks. One day when they were in the field moulding corn, going round the
corn hoeing it and putting a little hill around it, the conk sounded at about eleven o'clock,
and they knew that the long expected time had come. They dropped their hoes and went to the
big house. They went around to the back where the master always met the servants and he said
to them, 'You are all free, free as I am. You can go or come as you please. I want you to stay.
If you will stay, I will give you half the crop.' That was the beginning of the share cropping
system.

"My mother came at once to the quarters, and when she found me she pulled the end out of a
corn sack, stuck holes on the sides, put a cord through the top, pulled out the end, put it
on me, put on the only dress she had, and made it back to the old home (her first master's folk).

What the Slaves Expected

"When the slaves were freed, they got what they expected. They were glad to get it and get
away with it, and that was what mother and them did.

Slave Time Preaching

"One time when an old white man come along who wanted to preach, the white people gave him
a chance to preach to the niggers. The substance of his sermon was this:

"'Now when you servants are working for your masters, you must be honest. When you go to the
mill, don't carry along an extra sack and put some of the meal or the flour in for yourself.
And when you women are cooking in the big house, don't make a big pocket under your dress and
put a sack of coffee and a sack of sugar and other things you want in it."

"They took him out and hanged him for corrupting the morals of the slaves.

Conditions After the War

"Immediately after the War, there was a great scarcity of food. Neither Negroes nor white folk
had anything to eat. The few white people who did have something wouldn't let it be known.
My grandmother who was sixty-five years old and one of the old and respected inhabitants of
that time went out to find something for us to eat. A white woman named Mrs. Burton gave her
a sack of meal and told her not to tell anybody where she got it.

"My grandmother brought the meal home and cooked it in a large skillet in a big cake. When
it got done, she cut it into slices in the way you would cut up a pie and divided it among
us. That all we had to eat.

House

"The white people in those days built their houses back from the front. In South Carolina,
there were lots of farms that had four to twelve thousand acres. From what mother told me,
Master Bill's place set back from the road. Then there was a great square place they called
the yard. A fence divided the house and the yard adjoining it from that part of the grounds
which held the barn. The yard in front and back of the house held a grove.

The square around the house and the Negro quarters were all enclosed so that the little slaves
could not get out while parents were at work. The Negroes assembled on the porch when the gong
called them in the morning. The boss gave orders from the porch. There was an open space between
the quarters and the court (where the little slaves played). There was a gate between the court
and the big house.

"On the rear of the house, there was a porch from which the boss gave orders usually about
four o'clock in the morning and at which they would disband in the evening between nine and
ten--no certain time but more or less not earlier than nine and not often later than ten. Back
of the house and beyond it was a fence extending clear across the yard. In one corner of this
fence was a gate leading into the court. Leading out of the court was an opening surrounded
by a semi-circular fence which enclosed the Negro quarters.

"The cabins were usually built on the ground--no floors. The roofs were covered with clapboards.

"When I was a boy we used to sing, 'Rather be a nigger than a poor white man.' Even in slavery
they used to sing that. It was the poor white man who was freed by the War, not the Negroes.

Furniture

"There wasn't any furniture. Beds were built with one post out and the other three sides fastened
to the sides of the house.

Marrying Time

"I remember one night the people were gone to marry. That was when all the people in the community
married immediately after slavery.

Ghosts

"We had an open fireplace. That was at Bartlett Sanders' place. He had close on to three thousand
acres. Every grown person had gone to the marrying, and I was at home in the bed I just described.

"My grandfather's mother[HW: ?] had a chair and that was hers only. She was named Senia and
was about eighty years old. We burned nothing but pine knots in the hearth. You would put one
or two of those on the fire and they would burn for hours. We were all in bed and had been
for an hour or two. There were some others sleeping in the same room. There came a peculiar
knocking on grandmother's[HW: great grandmother?] chair. It's hard to describe it. It was something
like the distant beating of a drum. Grandmother was dead, of course. The boys got up and ran
out and brought in some of the hands. When they came in, a little thing about three and a half
feet high with legs about six or eight inches long ran out of the room.

Ku Klux Klan

"Whenever there was a man of influence, they terrorized him. They were at their height about
the time of Grant's election. Many a time my mother and I have watched them pass our door.
They wore gowns and some kind of helmet. They would be going to catch same leading Negro and
whip him. There was scarcely a night they couldn't take a leading Negro out and whip him if
they would catch him alone. On that account, the Negro men did not stay at home in Sumter County,
South Carolina at night. They left home and stayed together. The Ku Klux very seldom interfered
with a woman or a child.

"They often scared colored people by drinking large quantities of water. They had something
that held a lot of water, and when they would raise the bucket to their mouths to drink, they
would slip the water into it.

White Caps

"The white caps operated further to the northwest of where I lived. I never came in contact
with them. They were not the same thing as the Ku Klux.

Voting

"In South Carolina under the Reconstruction, we voted right along. In 1868 there were soldiers
at all of the election places to see that you did vote.

Career Since the War

"In 1881 I married. The year after that, in '83,[HW: ?] I merchandised a little. Then I got
converted. I got it in my head that it was wrong to take big profits from business, so I sold
out. Then I was asked to assist the keeper of the jail.

"In 1888 I went to school for the first time. I was then twenty-six years old. By the end of
the first term, I knew all that the teacher could teach, so he sent me to Claflin University.
I left there in the third year normal.

"When I returned home, I taught school, at first in a private school and later in a public
school for $15 a month.

"A man named Boyle told me that he had some ground to sell. I saved up $45, the price he asked
for it. When I offered it to him, he said that he had decided not to sell it. I went to town
and spent my $45. A few days later, he met me and offered me the place again. I told him I
had spent my money. He then offered it to me on time. There was plenty of timber on the place,
so I got some contracts with a man named Roland and delivered wood to him. When I went to collect
the money, he said he would not pay me in money.

"A man named Pennington offered me 20¢ a day for labor. I asked if he would pay in money.

"He replied, 'If you're looking for money, don't come.'

"I went home and said to my wife, 'I am going to leave here.'

"I came to Forrest City, Arkansas January 28, 1888. I farmed in Forrest City, making one crop,
and then I entered the ministry, and then I preached at Spring Park for two years.

"Then I entered Philander Smith College where I stayed from 1891-1897. I preached from the
time I left Philander until 1913.

"Then I studied law and completed the American Correspondence course in Law when I was fifty
years old. I am still practicing.

Wife and Family

"In 1897, when I graduated from Philander, my wife and six children were sitting on the front seat.

"I have eleven sons and daughters, of whom six are living. I had seven brothers and sisters.

"My wife and I have been married fifty-six years. I had to steal her away from her parents,
and she has never regretted coming to me nor I taking her."

Interviewer's Comment

"Brother Mack" as he is familiarly and affectionately known to his friends is a man keen and
vigorous, mentally and physically. He attends Sunday school, church both in the morning and
evening, and all departments of the Epworth League. He takes the Epworth Herald, the Southwestern
Christian Advocate, the Literary Digest, some poultry and farm magazines, the Arkansas Gazette,
and the St. Louis Democrat, and several other journals. He is on omnivorous reader and a clear
thinker. He raises chickens and goats and plants a garden as avocations. He has on invincible
reputation for honesty as well as for thrift and thought.

Nothing is pleasanter than to view the relationship between him and his wife. They have been
married fifty-six years and seem to have achieved a perfect understanding. She is an excellent
cook and is devoted to her home. She attends church regularly. Seems to be four or five years
younger than her husband. Like him, however, she seems to enjoy excellent health.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Cresa Mack
                    1417 Short Indiana St., Pine Bluff, Ark.
Age: 85

"I can tell you something about slavery days. I was born at South Bend, Arkansas on the old
Joe Clay place. I 'member they used to work 'em scandalous. They used me at the house and I
used to wait on old mistress' brother. He was a old man named Cal Fletcher.

"I 'member when they said the Yankees was comin' the boss man put us in wagons and runned us
to Texas. They put the women and chillun in the wagons but the men had to walk. I know I was
something over twelve years old.

"Old mistress, Miss Sarah Clay, took her chillun and went to Memphis.

"My white folks treated us very well. I never seed 'em whip my mother but once, but I seen
some whipped till they's speechless. Yes ma'm I have.

"I can 'member a lot 'bout the war. The Lord have mercy, I'se old. I 'member they used to sing

  'Run nigger run,
  The paddyrollers'll ketch you,
  Run nigger run.'

"Corse if they ketch you out without a pass they'd beat you nearly to death and tell you to
go home to your master.

"One time I was totin' water for the woman what did the washin'. I was goin' along the road
and seed somethin' up in a tree that look like a dog. I said 'Look at that dog.' The overseer
was comin' from the house and said 'That ain't no dog, that's a panther. You better not stop'
and he shot it out. Then I've seen bears out in the cane brakes. I thought they was big black
bulls. I was young then--yes mam, I was young.

"When the Yankees come through they sot the house afire and the gin and burned up 'bout a hundred
bales a cotton. They never bothered the niggers' quarters. That was the time the overseer carried
us to Texas to get rid of the Yankees.

"After the surrender the Yankees told the overseer to bring us all up in the front yard so
he could read us the ceremony and he said we was as free as any white man that walked the ground.
I didn't know what 'twas about much cause I was too busy playin'.

"I didn't know what school was 'fore freedom, but I went about a month after peace was declared.
Then papa died and mama took me out and put me in the field.

"I was grown, 'bout twenty-four or five, when I married. Now my chillun and grand chillun takes
care of me."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Warren McKinney, Hazen, Arkansas Age: 85

I was born in Edgefield County, South Carolina. I am eighty-five years old. I was born a slave
of George Strauter. I remembers hearing them say "Thank God Ize free as a jay bird." My ma
was a slave in the field. I was eleven years old when freedom was declared. When I was little,
Mr. Strauter whipped my ma. It hurt me bad as it did her. I hated him. She was crying. I chunked
him with rocks. He run after me, but he didn't catch me. There was twenty-five or thirty hands
that worked in the field. They raised wheat, corn, oats, barley, and cotton. All the children
that couldn't work stayed at one house. Aunt Mat kept the babies and small children that couldn't
go to the field. He had a gin and a shop. The shop was at the fork of the roads. When de war
come on my papa went to build forts. He quit ma and took another woman. When de war closed
ma took her four children, bundled em up and went to Augusta. The government give out rations
there. My ma washed and ironed. People died in piles. I don't know till yet what was de matter.
They said it was the change of living. I seen five or six wooden, painted coffins piled up
on wagons pass by our house. Loads passed every day lack you see cotton pass here. Some said
it was cholorea and some took consumption. Lots of de colored people nearly starved. Not much
to get to do and not much house room. Several families had to live in one house. Lots of the
colored folks went up north and froze to death. They couldn't stand the cold. They wrote back
about them dieing. No they never sent them back. I heard some sent for money to come back.
I heerd plenty bout the Ku Klux. They scared the folks to death. People left Augusta in droves.
About a thousand would all meet and walk going to hunt work and new homes. Some of them died.
I had a sister and brother lost that way. I had another sister come to Louisiana that way.
She wrote back.

I don't think the colored folks looked for a share of land. They never got nothing cause the
white folks didn't have nothing but barren hills left. About all the mules was wore out hauling
provisions in the army. Some folks say they ought to done more for de colored folks when dey
left, but dey say dey was broke. Freeing all de slaves left em broke.

That reconstruction was a mighty hard pull. Me and ma couldn't live. A man paid our ways to
Carlisle, Arkansas and we come. We started working for Mr. Emenson. He had a big store, teams,
and land. We liked it fine, and I been here fifty-six years now. There was so much wild game
living was not so hard. If a fellow could get a little bread and a place to stay he was all
right. After I come to dis state I voted some. I have farmed and worked at odd jobs. I farmed
mostly. Ma went back to her old master. He persuaded her to come back home. Me and her went
back and run a farm four or five years before she died. Then I come back here. I first had
300 acres at Carlisle. I sold it and bought 80 acres at Green Grove. I married in South Carolina.
We had a fine weddin, home weddin. Each of our families furnished the weddin supper. We had
24 waiters. That is all the wife I ever had. We lived together 57 years. It is hard for me
to keep up with my mind since she died. She been dead five years nearly now. I used to sing
but I forgot all the songs. We had song books. I joined the church when I was twelve years old.

I think the times are worse than they use to be. The people is living mighty fast I tell you.
I don't get no help from the government. They won't give me the pension. I can't work and I
can't pay taxes on my place. They just don't give me nothing but a little out of the store.
I can't get no pension.

Little Rock District FOLKLORE SUBJECTS Name of Interviewer: Irene Robertson Subject: Ex-Slave--History
Story:--Information

This Information given by: Warren McKinney Place of Residence: Hazen, Green Grove Settlement,
Arkansas Occupation: Farming Age: 84 [TR: Information moved from bottom of first page.]

Warren McKinney was born in Edgefield County, South Carolina. He was born a slave. His master
was George Strauter. He had a big plantation and worked twenty-five or thirty work hands. There
were twenty-five or thirty children too small to work in the field. They raised cotton, corn,
oats, and wheat. His mother washed and ironed and cooked. He was small but well remembers once
when his mother had been sick and had just gotten out. George Strauter whipped her with a switch
on her legs. Warren did not approve of it. Rocks were plentiful and he began throwing at him.
He said Mr. George took out after him but didn't catch or whip him.

George Strauter tried to teach them all how to be good farmers and be saving. Warren knew war
was going on but he didn't see any of it. His father came home several times. He was off building
forts. He said he remembered a big "hurly-burly" and he heard 'em saying, "Thank God I'ze free
as a jay bird." He didn't know why they were fighting so he didn't know then why they were
saying that.

George Strauter had a shop at the fork of the roads. He had his own gin. They sold cotton and
bought provisions at Augusta, Georgia. They made some of their meal and flour and raised all
their meat and made enough lard to do the year around.

He heard them talking about the "Yankees" burning up Augusta, but he saw where they had burned
Hamburg, South Carolina or North Augusta they call it.

After they were free he remembers his mother bundling up her things and her family and them
all going in an ox cart to Augusta to live. Warren's mother washed, cooked and ironed for a
living. Her husband went off and lived with another woman after freedom. Warren was about eleven
years old then. The Government furnished food for them too. One thing that distressed Warren
was the way people died for more than a year. He saw five or six coffins piled up on a wagon
being taken out to be buried. He thought it was changing houses and changing ways of living.
They didn't have shoes and warm clothes and weren't fed from white folks smoke house. Lots
of the slaves had Consumption and died right now. Stout men and women didn't live two years
after they were freed. Lots of them said they didn't like that freedom and wanted to go back
but the masters were broke and couldn't keep many of them if they went back.

When Warren was about fifteen years old, there was a white man or two, but colored leaders
mostly got about a thousand colored people to start for the West walking. Warren had sisters
and brothers who started on this trip. Warren had some fussy brothers, his mother was afraid
would get in jail. They kept her uneasy. They shipped their "stuff" by boat and train. He never
saw them any more but he heard from them in Louisiana. Louisiana had a bad name in those days.

When Warren was about fourteen and fifteen, his mother had them on a farm, farming near Hamburg.

When he was sixteen or seventeen, his mother and the other children came on the train to about
where Carlisle now is but it wasn't called by that name. There were very few houses of any
kind. Mr. Emerson had a big store and lots of land. He worked black and white. Mr. Emerson
let them have seven or eight mules and wagons and they farmed near there. He remembers pretty
soon there was a depot where the depot now stands, a bank, a post office, and two or three
more stores, all small buildings. He liked coming to Arkansas because he got to ride on the
train a long ways. It was easy to live here. There were lots of game and fish.

Warren never shot anything in his life. He was no hunter. Nats were awful. Warren made smoke
to run the nats from the cows. Four or five deer would come to the smoke. Cows were afraid
of them and would leave the smoke. When he would go the deer would leap four or five feet in
the air at the sight of him.

When Warren lived in Augusta, Georgia, they had schools a month at a time but Warren never
did get to go to any, so he can't read or write. But he learned to save his money. He joined
a church when he was twelve years old in South Carolina and belongs to the Baptist church at
Green Grove now.

The old master in South Carolina persuaded his mother to come back. They all went back four
or five years before his mother died. While Warren was there he married a woman on a joining farm.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Victoria McMullen
                    1416 E. Valmar, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 54
Occupation: Seamstress

"My mother was born March 16, 1865, and knew nothing of slavery.

"Both my grandmothers and both grandfathers were slaves. My father was born in the same year
as my mother and like my mother knew nothing of slavery although both of them might have been
born slaves.

"I knew my mother's mother and father and my father's mother, but I didn't know my father's father.

"He was from Texas and he always stayed there. He never did come out to Louisiana where I was
born. My mother was born in Louisiana, but my father was born in Texas. I don't know what county
or city my father was born in. I just heard my grandmother on his side say he was born in Texas.

"During the War (he was born in '65 when the War ceased), Grandmother Katy--that was her name,
Katy, Katy Elmore--she was in Louisiana at first--she was run out in Texas, I suppose, to be
hidden from the Yankees. My father was born there and my grandfather stayed there. He died
in Texas and then Grandma Katy come back to Louisiana with my father and settled in Ouachita
Parish.

"Grandma Katy was sold from South Carolina into Louisiana to Bob McClendon, and she kept the
name of Elmore who was her first owner in South Carolina. It was Bob McClendon who run her
out in Texas to hide her from the Yankees. My grandfather in Texas kept the name of Jamison.
That was the name of his master in Texas. But grandma kept the name of Elmore from South Carolina
because he was good to her. He was better than Bob McClendon. The eastern states sold their
slaves to the southern states and got all the money, then they freed the slaves and that left
the South without anything.

"Grandma Katy had Creek Indian blood in her. She was of medium size and height, copper colored,
high cheek bones, small squinchy eyes, black curly hair. Her hair was really pretty but she
didn't curl it. It was just naturally curly. She was a practical nurse as they call it, but
she did more of what some people call a midwife. They call it something else now. They got
a proper word for it.

"They got it in these government agencies. That is what she was even in slavery times. She
worked for colored people and white people both. That was after she was freed until she went
blind. She went blind three years before she died. She died at the age of exactly one hundred
years. She treated women and babies. They said she was a real good doctor in her day. That
is been fifty-four years ago. [I will be fifty-four years old tomorrow--September 18, 1938.]
In slavery times my grandma was almost as free as she was in freedom because of her work.

"She said that Bob McClendon was cruel to her. Sometimes he'd get angry and take the shovel
and throw hot ashes on the slaves. And then he'd see them with blisters on them and he would
take a handsaw or a flat plank and bust the blisters. Louisiana was a warm country and they
wouldn't have much clothes on. When the slaves were freed, he went completely broke. He had
scarcely a place to live.

"I seen him once. Be look like on old possum. He had a long beard down to his waist and he
had long side burns too. Just a little of his face showed. He was tall and stooping and he
wore his hair long and uncut down on his neck. You know about what he looked like. He had on
blue jeans pants and brogan shoes and a common shirt--a work shirt. He wore very common clothes.
When they freed the Negroes, it broke him up completely. He had been called a 'big-to-do' in
his life but he wasn't nothing then. He owned Grandma Katy.

"Grandma Katy had a sister named Maria and a brother named Peter. He owned all three of them.
I have seen all of them. Grandma Katy was the oldest. She and Uncle Peter stayed close together.
He didn't have no wife and she didn't have no husband. But Aunt Maria had a husband. She lived
off from them after freedom. It was about twelve miles away. My great-aunt and great-uncle--they
were Maria and Peter--that was what they were. Uncle Peter died first before I left Louisiana,
but Aunt Maria and Grandma Katy died after I came to Arkansas. Grandma Katy lived four years
after I came here.

"After they was free and my father had gotten large enough to work and didn't have no horse,
my grandma was going 'round waiting on women--that is all she did--all the rest of the people
had gotten large and left home. Papa made a crop with a hoe. He made three bales of cotton
and about twelve loads of corn with that hoe. He used to tell me, 'You don't know nothin' 'bout
work. You oughter see how I had to work.' After that he bought him a horse. Money was scarce
then and it took something to buy the place and the horse both. They were turned loose from
slavery without anything. Hardly had a surname--just Katy, Maria, and Peter.

"I knew more about the slave-time history of my mother's folks than I did about my father's
but I'll tell you that some other time. My grandmother on my mother's side was born in Richmond,
Virginia. She was owned by a doctor but I can't call his name. She gets her name from her husband's
owners. They came from Virginia. They didn't take the name of their owners in Louisiana. They
took the name of the owners in Virginia. She was a twin--her twin was a boy named June and
her name was Hetty. Her master kept her brother to be a driver for him. She was sent from Virginia
to Louisiana to people that were related to her Virginia people. She called her Louisiana mistress
'White Ma;' she never did call her 'missis.' The white folks and the colored folks too called
her Indian because she was mixed with Choctaw. That's the Indian that has brown spots on the
jaw. They're brownskin. It was an Indian from the Oklahoma reservation that said my mother
belonged to the Choctaws.

"She rode from Virginia to Louisiana on a boat at the age of twelve years. She was separated
from her mother and brothers and sisters and never did see them again. She was kept in the
house for a nurse. She was not a midwife. She nursed the white babies. That was what she was
sent to Louisiana for--to nurse the babies. The Louisiana man that owned her was named George
Dorkins. But I think this white woman came from Virginia. She married this Louisiana man, then
sent back to her father's house and got grandma; she got her for a nurse. She worked only a
year and a half in the field before peace was declared. After she got grown and married, my
grandfather--she had to stay with him and cook and keep house for him. That was during slavery
time but after George Dorkins died. Dorkins went and got hisself a barrel of whiskey--one of
these great big old barrels--and set it up in his house, and put a faucet in it and didn't
do nothin' but drink whiskey. He said he was goin' to drink hisself to death. And he did.

"He was young enough to go to war and he said he would drink hisself to death before he would
go, and he did. My grandma used to steal newspapers out of his house and take them down to
the quarters and leave them there where there were one or two slaves that could read and tell
how the War was goin' on. I never did learn how the slaves learned to read. But she was in
the house and she could steal the papers and send them down. Later she could slip off and they
would tell her the news, and then she could slip the papers back.

"Her master drank so much he couldn't walk without falling and she would have to help him out.
Her mistress was really good. She never allowed the overseer to whip her. She was only whipped
once in slave time while my father's mother was whipped more times than you could count.

"Her master often said, 'I'll drink myself to death before I'll go to war and be shot down
like a damn target.' She said in living with them in the house, she learned to cuss from him.
She said she was a cussin' soul until she became a Christian. She wasn't 'fraid of them because
she was kin to them in some way. There was another woman there who was some kin to them and
she looked enough like my grandma for them to be kin to each other. We talked it over several
times and said we believed we were related; but none of us know for sure.

"When the slaves wanted something said they would have my grandma say it because they knew
she wouldn't be whipped for it. 'White Ma' wouldn't let nobody whip her if she knew it. She
cussed the overseer out that time for whipping her.

"When grandma was fourteen or fifteen years old they locked her up in the seed house once or
twice for not going to church. You see they let the white folks go to the church in the morning
and the colored folks in the evening, and my grandma didn't always want to go. She would be
locked up in the seed bin and she would cuss the preacher out so he could hear her. She would
say, 'Master, let us out.' And he would say, 'You want to go to church?' And she would say,
'No, I don't want to hear that same old sermon: "Stay out of your missis' and master's hen
house. Don't steal your missis' and master's chickens. Stay out of your missis' and master's
smokehouse. Don't steal your missis' and master's hams." I don't steal nothing. Don't need
to tell me not to.'

"She was tellin' the truth too. She didn't steal because she didn't have to. She had plenty
without stealin'! She got plenty to eat in the house. But the other slaves didn't git nothin'
but fat meat and corn bread and molasses. And they got tired of that same old thing. They wanted
something else sometimes. They'd go to the hen house and get chickens. They would go to the
smokehouse and get hams and lard. And they would get flour and anything else they wanted and
they would eat something they wanted. There wasn't no way to keep them from it.

"The reason she got whipped that time, the overseer wanted her to help get a tree off the fence
that had been blown down by a storm. She told him that wasn't her work and she wasn't goin'
to do it. Old miss was away at that time. He hit her a few licks and she told old miss when
she came back. Old 'White Ma' told the overseer, 'Don't never put your hands on her no more
no matter what she does. That's more than I do. I don't hit her and you got no business to do it.'

"Her husband, my grandfather, was a blacksmith, and he never did work in the field. He made
wagons, plows, plowstocks, buzzard wings--they call them turning plows now. They used to make
and put them on the stocks. He made anything-handles, baskets. He could fill wagon wheels.
He could sharpen tools. Anything that come under the line of blacksmith, that is what he did.
He used to fix wagons all the time I knowed him. In harvest time in the fall he would drive
from Bienville where they were slaves to Monroe in Ouachita Parish. He kept all the plows and
was sharpening and fixing anything that got broke. He said he never did get no whipping.

"His name was Tom Eldridge. They called him 'Uncle Tom'. They was the mother and father of
twelve children. Six lived and six died. One boy and five girls lived. And one girl and five
boys died--half and half. He died at the age of seventy-five, June 6, 1908. She died January 1920.

"I came out here in January 1907. I lived in Pine Bluff. From Louisiana I came to Pine Bluff
in 1906. In 1907 I went to Kerr in Lonoke County and lived there eight years and then I came
to Little Rock. I farmed at Kerr and just worked 'round town those few months in Pine Bluff.
Excusing the time I was in Pine Bluff and Little Rock I farmed. I farmed in Ouachita Parish,
Louisiana."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Nannie P. Madden
                    West Memphis, Arkansas
Age: 69

"I am Martha Johnson's sister. I was born at Lake Village, Arkansas. I am 69 years old. I was
born on Mr. Ike Wethingtons place. Pa was renting. Mother died in 1876 on this farm. We called
it Red Leaf plantation. Father died at Martha Johnson's here in West Memphis when he was 88
years old.

"Mother was not counted a slave. Her master's Southern wife (white wife) disliked her very
much but kept her till her death. Mother had three white children by her master. After freedom
she married a black man and had four children by him. We are in the last set.

"We was born after slavery and all we know is from hearing our people talk. Father talked all
time about slavery. He was a soldier. I couldn't tell you straight. I can give you some books
on slavery:

  Booker T. Washington's Own Story of His Life and Work,
  64 page supplement, by Albon L. Holsey

    Authentic Edition--in office of Library of Congress,
    Washington, D.C., 1915, copywrighted by J.L. Nichols
    Co.

  The Master Mind of a Child of Slavery--Booker T. Washington,
  by Frederick E. Drinker, Washington, D.C.

I have read them both. Yes, they are my own books.

"I farmed and cooked all my life."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Perry Madden, Thirteenth Street, south side,
                    one block east of Boyle Park Road, Route 6,
                    Care L.G. Cotton, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: About 79

Birth and Age

"I have been here quite a few years. This life is short. A man ought to prepare for eternity.
I had an uncle who used to say that a person who went to torment stayed as long as there was
a grain of sand on the sea.

"I was a little boy when slavery broke. I used to go out with my brother. He watched gaps.
I did not have to do anything; I just went out with him to keep him company. I was scared of
the old master. I used to call him the 'Big Bear.' He was a great big old man.

"I was about six years old when the War ended, I guess. I don't know how old I am. The insurance
men put me down as seventy-three. I know I was here in slavery time, and I was just about six
years old when the War ended.

Schooling

"I got my first learning in Alabama. I didn't learn anything at all in slavery times. I went
to school. I would go to the house in slavery tine, and there wouldn't be nobody home, and
I would go to the bed and get under it because I was scared. When I would wake up it would
be way in the night and dark, and I would be in bed.

"I got my schooling way after the surrender. We would make crops. The third time we moved,
dad started me to school. I had colored teachers. I was in Talladega County. I made the fifth
grade before I stopped. My father died and then I had to stop and take care of my mother.

An "Aunt Caroline" Story

"I know that some people can tell things that are goin' to happen. Old man Julks lived at Pumpkin
Bend. He had a colt that disappeared. He went to 'Aunt Caroline'--that's Caroline Dye. She
told him just where the colt was and who had it and how he had to get it back. She described
the colt and told him that was what he come to find out about before he had a chance to ask
her anything. She told him that white people had it and told him where they lived and told
him he would have to have a white man go and git it for him. He was working for a good man
and he told him about it. He advertised for the colt and the next day, the man that stole it
came and told him that a colt had been found over on his place and for him to come over and
arrange to git it. But he said, 'No, I've placed that matter in the hands of my boss.' He told
his boss about it, but the fellow brought the horse and give it to the boss without any argument.

Family and Masters

"My old master's slaves were called free niggers. He and his wife never mistreated their slaves.
When any of Madden's slaves were out and the pateroles got after them, if they could make it
home, that ended it. Nobody beat Madden's niggers.

"My father's name was Allen Madden and my mother's name was Amy Madden. I knew my grandfather
and grandmother on my mother's side. My grandfather and grandmother never were 'round me though
that I can remember.

"When the old man died, the Negroes were divided out. This boy got so many and that one got
so many. The old man, Mabe Madden, had two sons, John and Little Mabe. My mother and father
went to John. They were in Talladega because John stayed there.

"My father's mother and father fell to Little Mabe Madden. They never did come to Alabama but
I have heard my father talk about them so much. My father's father was named Harry. His last
name must have been Madden.

"My grandfather on my mother's side was named Charlie Hall. He married into the Madden family.
He belonged to the Halls before he married. Old man Charlie, his master, had a plantation that
wasn't far from the Madden's plantation. In those days, if you met a girl and fell in love
with her, you could git a pass and go to see her if you wanted to. You didn't have to be on
the same plantation at all. And you could marry her and go to see her, and have children by
her even though you belonged to different masters. The Maddens never did buy Hall. Grandma
never would change her name to Hall. He stayed at my house after we married, stayed with me
sometimes, and stayed with his other son sometimes.

"My mother was born a Madden. She was born right at Madden's place. When grandma married Hall,
like it is now, she would have been called Hall. But she was born a Madden and stayed Madden
and never did change to her husband's name. So my mother was born a Madden although her father's
name was Hall.

"I don't know what sort of man Mabe was, and I only know what my parents said about John. They
said he was a good man and I have to say what they said. He didn't let nobody impose on his
niggers. Pateroles did git after them and bring them in with the hounds, but when they got
in, that settled it. Madden never would allow white people to beat on his niggers.

"They tried to git my daddy out so that they could whip him, but they couldn't catch him. They
shot him--the pateroles did--but he whipped them. My daddy was a coon. I mean he was a good man.

Early Life

"My brother was big enough to mind gaps. That was in slavery times. They had good fences around
the field. They didn't have gates like they do now. They had gaps. The fence would zigzag,
and the rails could be lifted down at one section, and that would leave a gap. If you left
a gap, the stock would go into the field. When there was a gap, my brother would stay in it
and keep the stock from passing. When the folks would come to dinner, he would go in and eat
dinner with them just as big as anybody. When they would leave, the gap would stay down till
night. It stayed down from morning till noon and from one o'clock till the men come in at night.
The gap was a place in the rails like I told you where they could take down the rails to pass.
It took time to lay the rails down and more time to place then back up again. They wouldn't
do it. They would leave them down till they come back during the work hours and a boy that
was too small to do anything else was put to mind them. My brother used to do that and I would
keep him company. When I heard old master coming there, I'd be gone, yes siree. I would see
him when he left the house and when he got to the gap, I would be home or at my grandfather's.

Occupational Experiences

"I have followed farming all my life. That is the sweetest life a man can lead. I have been
farming all my life principally. My occupation is farming. That is it was until I lost my health.
I ain't done nothin' for about four years now. I would follow public work in the fall of the
year and make a crop every year. Never failed till I got disabled. I used to make all I used
and all I needed to feed my stock. I even raised my own wheat before I left home in Alabama.
That is a wheat country. They don't raise it out here.[HW: ?]

"I came here--lemme see, about how many years ago did I come here. I guess I have been in Arkansas
about twenty-eight years since the first time I come here. I have gone in and out as I got
a chance to work somewheres. I have been living in this house about three years.

"I preached for about twenty or more years. I don't know that I call myself a preacher. I am
a pretty good talker sometimes. I have never pastored a church; somehow or 'nother the word
come to me to go and I go and talk. I ain't no pulpit chinch. I could have taken two or three
men's churches out from under them, but I didn't.

Freedom and Soldiers

"I can't remember just how my father got freed. Old folks then didn't let you stan' and listen
when they talked. If you did it once, you didn't do it again. They would talk while they were
together, but the children would have business outdoors. Yes siree, I never heard them say
much about how they got freedom.

"I was there when the Yankees come through. That was in slave time. They marched right through
old man Madden's grove. They were playing the fifes and beating the drums. And they were playing
the fiddle. Yes sir, they were playing the fiddle too. It must have been a fiddle; it sounded
just like one. The soldiers were all just a singin'. They didn't bother nobody at our house.
If they bothered anything, nothing was told me about it. I heard my uncle say they took a horse
from my old manager. I didn't see it. They took the best horse in the lot my uncle said. Pardon
me, they didn't take him. A peckerwood took him and let the Yankees get him. I have heard that
they bothered plenty of other places. Took the best mules, and left old broken down ones and
things like that. Broke things up. I have heard that about other places, but I didn't see any
of it.

Right after the War

"Right after the War, my father went to farming--renting land. I mean he sharecropped and done
around. Thing is come way up from then when the Negroes first started. They didn't have no
stock nor nothin' then. They made a crop just for the third of it. When they quit the third,
they started givin' them two-fifths. That's more than a third, ain't it? Then they moved up
from that, and give them half, and they are there yet. If you furnish, they give you two-thirds
and take one-third. Or they give you so much per acre or give him produce in rent.

Marriage

"I was married in 1883. My wife's name was Mary Elston. Her mother died when she was an infant.
Her grandmother was an Elston at first. Then she changed her name to Cunningham. But she always
went in the name of Elston, and was an Elston when she married me. My wife I mean. I married
on a Thursday in the Christmas week. This December I will be married fifty-five years. This
is the only wife I have ever had. We had three children and all of them are dead. All our birthed
children are dead. One of them was just three months old when he died. My baby girl had three
children and she lived to see all of them married.

Opinions

"Our own folks is about the worst enemies we have. They will come and sweet talk you and then
work against you. I had a fellow in here not long ago who came here for a dollar, and I never
did hear from him again after he got it. He couldn't get another favor from me. No man can
fool me more than one time. I have been beat out of lots of money and I have got hurt trying
to help people.

"The young folks now is just gone astray. I tell you the truth, I wouldn't give you forty cents
a dozen for these young folks. They are sassy and disrespectful. Don't respect themselves and
nobody else. When they get off from home, they'll respect somebody else better 'n they will
their own mothers.

"If they would do away with this stock law, they would do better everywhere. If you would say
fence up your place and raise what you want, I could get along. But you have to keep somebody
to watch your stock. If you don't, you'll have to pay something out. It's a bad old thing this
stock law. I remember when the war ceasted. I was a good-sized chap.

"Durin' the war my mother's master sent us to Texas; western Texas is whar they stopped me.
We stayed there two years and then they brought us back after surrender.

"I remember when the war ceasted and remember the soldiers refugeein' through the country.
I'm somewhar round eighty-one. I'm tellin' you the truf. I ain't just now come here.

"I was born right here in Arkansas. My mother's master was old B.D. Williams of Tennessee and
we worked for his son Mac H. Williams here in Arkansas. They was good to my mother. Always
had nurses for the colored childrun while the old folks was in the field.

"After the war I used to work in the house for my white folks--for Dr. Bob Williams way up
there in the country on the river. I stayed with his brother Mac Williams might near twenty-five
or thirty years. Worked around the house servin' and doin' arrands different places.

"I went to school a little bit a good piece after the war and learned to read and write.

"I've heard too much of the Ku Klux. I remember when they was Ku Kluxin' all round through here.

"Lord! I don't know how many times I ever voted. I used to vote every time they had an election.
I voted before I could read. The white man showed me how to vote and asked me who I wanted
to vote for. Oh Lord, I was might near grown when I learned to read.

"I been married just one time in my life and my wife's been dead thirteen years.

"I tell you, Miss, I don't know hardly what to think of things now. Everything so changeable
I can't bring nothin' to remembrance to hold it.

"I didn't do nothin' when I was young but just knock around with the white folks. Oh Lord,
when I was young I delighted in parties. Don't nothin' like that worry me now. Don't go to
no parades or nothin'. Don't have that on my brain like I did when I was young. I goes to church
all the place I does go.

"I ain't never had no accident. Don't get in the way to have no accident cause I know the age
I is if I injure these bones there ain't anything more to me.

"My mother had eight childrun and just my sister and me left. I can't do a whole day's work
to save my life. I own this place and my sister-in-law gives me a little somethin' to eat.
I used to be on the bureau but they took me off that."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Angeline Martin, Kansas City, Missouri
                    Visiting at 1105 Louisiana St., Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age 80

"Well, I was livin' then. I was born in Georgia. Honey, I don't know what year. I was born
before the war. I was about ten when freedom come. I don't remember when it started but I remember
when it ended. I think I'm in the 80's--that's the way I count it.

"My master was dead and my mistress was a widow--Miss Sarah Childs. She had a guardeen.

"When the war come, old mistress and her daughter refugeed to Mississippi. The guardeen wouldn't
let me go, said I was too young.

"My parents stayed on the plantation. My white folks' house was vacant and the Yankees come
and used it for headquarters. They never had put shoes on me and when the Yankees shot the
chickens I'd run and get em. They didn't burn up nothin', just kill the hogs and chickens and
give us plenty.

"I didn't know what the war was about. You know chillun in them days didn't have as much sense
as they got now.

"After freedom, my folks stayed on the place and worked on the shares. I want to school right
after the war. I went every year till we left there. We come to this country in seventy something.
We come here and stopped at the Cummins place. I worked in the field till I come to town bout
fifty years ago. Since then I cooked some and done laundry work.

"I married when I was seventeen. Had six children. I been livin' in Kansas City twenty-three
years. Followed my boy up there. I like it up there a lot better than I do here. Oh lord, yes,
there are a lot of colored people in Kansas City."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Josie Martin
                    R.F.D., Madison, Arkansas
Age:  86

"I was born up near Cotton Plant but took down near Helena to live. My parents named Sallie
and Bob Martin. They had seven children. I heard mother say she was sold on a block in Mississippi
when she was twelve years old. My father was a Creek Indian; he was dark. Mother was a Choctaw
Indian; she was bright. Mother died when I was but a girl and left a family on my hands. I
sent my baby brother and sister to school and I cooked on a boarding train. The railroad hands
working on the tracks roomed and et on the train. They are all dead now and I'm 'lone in the world.

"My greatest pleasure was independence--make my money, go and spend it as I see fit. I wasn't
popular with men. I never danced. I did sell herbs for diarrhea and piles and 'what ails you.'
I don't sell no more. Folks too close to drug stores now. I had long straight hair nearly to
my knees. It come out after a spell of typhoid fever. It never come in to do no good." (Baldheaded
like a man and she shaves. She is a hermaphrodite, reason for never marrying.) "I made and
saved up at one time twenty-three thousand dollars cooking and field work. I let it slip out
from me in dribs.

"I used to run from the Yankees. I've seen them go in droves along the road. They found old
colored couple, went out, took their hog and made them barbecue it. They drove up a stob, nailed
a piece to a tree stacked their guns. They rested around till everything was ready. They et
at one o'clock at night and after the feast drove on. They wasn't so good to Negroes. They
was good to their own feelings. They et up all that old couple had to eat in their house and
the pig they raised. I reckon their owners give them more to eat. They lived off alone and
the soldiers stopped there and worked the old man and woman nearly to death.

"Our master told us about freedom. His name was Master Martin. He come here from Mississippi.
I don't recollect his family.

"I get help from the Welfare. I had paralysis. I never got over my stroke. I ain't no 'count
to work."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Bess Mathis, Hazen, Arkansas Age: 82

"I was born in De Sota County, Mississippi. My parents' owners was Mars Hancock. Mama was a
cook and field hand. Papa milked and worked in the field. Mama had jes' one child, that me.
I had six childern. I got five livin'. They knowed they free. It went round from mouth to mouth.
Mama said Mars Hancock was good er slave holder as ever lived she recken. I heard her come
over that er good many times. But they wanted to be free. I jes' heard em talk bout the Ku
Klux. They said the Ku Klux made lot of em roamin' round go get a place to live and start workin'.
They tell how they would ride at night and how scarry lookin' they was. I heard em say if Mars
Hancock didn't want to give em meat they got tree a coon or possum. Cut the tree down or climb
it and then come home and cook it. They had no guns. They had dogs or could get one. Game helps
out lots.

"The women chewed for their children after they weaned em. They don't none of em do that way
now. Women wouldn't cut the baby's finger nails. They bite em off. They said if you cut its
nails off he would steal. They bite its toe nails off, too. And if they wanted the children
to have long pretty hair, they would trim the ends off on the new of the moon. That would cause
the hair to grow long. White folks and darkies both done them things.

"I been doin' whatever come to hand--farmin', cookin', washin', ironin'.

"I never expects to vote neither. I sure ain't voted.

"Conditions pretty bad sometimes. I don't know what cause it. You got beyond me now. I don't
know what going become of the young folks, and they ain't studyin' it. They ain't kind. Got
no raisin' I call it. I tried to raise em to work and behave. They work some. My son is takin'
care of me now." Now, the only thing I remember was some soldiers come along on some mules.
I remember my mother and father was sittin' on the gallery and they say, 'Look a there, them's
soldiers.'

"And I remember when my parents run off. I was with 'em and I cried for 'em to tote me.

"My mother's first owner was named Armstrong. She said she was about eleven years old when
he bought her. I heard her say they just changed around a lot.

"Freedom was comin' and her last owners had carried her to a state where it hadn't come yet.
That's right--it was Texas.

"Her first owners was good. She said they wouldn't 'low the overseer to 'buke the women at all.

"But her last owners was cruel. She said one day old missis was out in the yard and backed
up and fell into a pan of hot water and when her husband come she told him and he tried to
'buke my mother. You know if somebody tryin' to get the best of you and you can help yourself,
you gwine do it. So mama throwed up her arm and old master hit it with a stick and cut it bad.
So my parents run off. That was in Texas.

"She said we was a year comin' back and I know they stopped at the Dillard place and made a
crop. And they lost one child on the way--that was Kittie.

"I heard mama say they got back here to Arkansas and got to the bureau and they freed 'em.
I know the War wasn't over yet 'cause I know I heard mama say, 'Just listen to them guns at
Vicksburg.'

"When I was little, I was so sickly. I took down with the whoopin' cough and I was sick so
long. But mama say to the old woman what stayed with me, 'This gal gwine be here to see many
a winter 'cause she so stout in the jaws I can't give her no medicine.'

"When I commenced to remember anything, I heered 'em talkin' 'bout Grant and Colfax. Used to
wear buttons with Grant and Colfax.

"But I was livin' in Abraham Lincoln's time. Chillun them days didn't know nothin'. Why, woman,
I was twelve years old 'fore I knowed babies didn't come out a holler log. I used to go 'round
lookin' in logs for a baby.

"I had seven sisters and three brothers and they all dead but me. Had three younger than me.
They was what they called freeborn chillun.

"After freedom my parents worked for Major Ross. I know when mama fixed us up to go to Sunday-school
we'd go by Major Ross for him to see us. I know we'd go so early, sometimes he'd still be in
his drawers.

"I know one thing--when I was about sixteen years old things was good here. Ever'body had a
good living."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Malindy Maxwell, Madison, Arkansas Age:
Up in 80's

"I was born close to Como and Sardis, Mississippi. My master and mistress was Sam Shans and
Miss Cornelia Shans. I was born a slave. They owned mama and Master Rube Sanders owned pa.
Neither owner wouldn't sell but they agreed to let ma and pa marry. They had a white preacher
and they married out in the yard and had a big table full of weddin' supper, and the white
folks et in the house. They had a big supper too. Ma said they had a big crowd. The preacher
read the ceremony. Miss Cornelia give her a white dress and white shoes and Miss Cloe Wilburn
give her a veil. Miss Cloe was some connection of Rube Sanders.

"They had seven children. I'm the oldest--three of us living.

"After 'mancipation pa went to see about marrying ma over agen and they told him that marriage
would stand long as ever he lived.

"Mama was sold at twelve years old in Atlanta, Georgia. Ma and pa was always field hands. Grandma
got to be one of John Sanders' leading hands to work mong the women folks. They said John Sanders
was meanest man ever lived or died. According to pa's saying, Mars Ruben was a good sorter
man. Pa said John Sanders was too mean a man to have a wife. He was mean to Miss Sarah. They
said he beat her, his wife, like he beat a nigger woman.

"Miss Sarah say, 'Come get your rations early Saturday morning, clean up your house, wash and
iron, and we'll go to preaching tomorrow--Sunday. I want you to all come out clean Monday morning.'
They go ask Mars John Sanders if they could go to preaching. I recken from what they said they
walked. Mars John, when they git their best clothes on, make them turn round and go to the
field and work all day long. He was just that mean. Work all day long Sunday.

"Miss Sarah was a Primitive Baptist and that is what I am till this day. Some folks call us
Hardshell Baptist. The colored folks set in the back of the church. The women all set on one
side and the men on the other. If they had a middle row, there was a railing dividing mens'
seats from the womens' seats on the very same benches.

"Miss Cloe, Miss Cornelia, and Miss Sarah cook up a whole lot of good things to eat and go
to camp meeting. Sometimes they would stay a week and longer. They would take time bout letting
the colored folks go long. We had big times. My grandpa took a gingercake cutter with him and
sold gingercakes when they come out of the church. He could keep that money his own. I don't
know how he sold them. My sister has the cutter now I expect. My girl has seen it. It was a
foot long, this wide (5 inches), and fluted all around the edges, and had a handle like a biscuit
cutter. They was about an inch thick. He made good ones and he sold all he could ever make.
Grandpa took carpet sacks to carry his gingercakes in to sell them. I remember that mighty
well. (The shape of the cutter was like this: .) He purt nigh always got to go to all the camp
meetings. Folks got happy and shouted in them days. It would be when somebody got religion.
At some big meetings they didn't shout.

"When I was born they had a white mid-wife, Miss Martin. My mistress was in the cabin when
I was born. I was born foot foremost and had a veil on my face and down on my body a piece.
They call it a 'caul.' Sometimes I see forms and they vanish. I can see some out of one eye
now. But I've always seen things when my sight was good. It is like when you are dreaming at
night but I see them at times that plain in day.

"I don't know how old I am but I was a good size girl when 'mancipation come on. Miss Cornelia
had my age in her Bible. They done took me from the cabin and I was staying at the house. I
slept on a trundle bed under Miss Cornelia's bed. Her bed was a teaster--way high up, had a
big stool to step on to go up in there and she had it curtained off. I had a good cotton bed
and I slept good up under there. Her bed was corded with sea grass rope. It didn't have no
slats like beds do now.

"Colored folks slept on cotton beds and white folks--some of em at least--picked geese and
made feather beds and down pillows. They carded and washed sheep's wool and put in their quilts.
Some of them, they'd be light and warm. Colored folks' bed had one leg. Then it was holes hewed
in the wall on the other three sides and wooden slats across it. Now that wasn't no bad bed.
Some of them was big enough for three to sleep on good. When the children was small four could
sleep easy cross ways, and they slept that way.

"They had shelves and tables and chairs. They made chests and put things in there and set on
top of it too. White folks had fine chests to keep their bed clothes in. Some of them was made
of oak, and pine, and cypress. They would cook walnut hulls and bark and paint them dark with
the tea.

"I recollect a right smart of the Civil War. We was close nough to hear the roar and ramble
and the big cannons shake the things in the house. I don't know where they was fighting--a
long ways off I guess.

"I saw the soldiers scouting. They come most any time. They go in and take every drop of milk
out of the churn. They took anything they could find and went away with it. I seen the cavalry
come through. I thought they looked so pretty. Their canteens was shining in the sun. Miss
Cornelia told me to hide, the soldiers might take me on with them. I didn't want to go. I was
very well pleased there at Miss Cornelia's.

"I seen the cavalry come through that raised the 'white sheet.' I know now it must have been
a white flag but they called it a white sheet to quit fighting. It was raised a short time
after they passed and they said they was the ones raised it. I don't know where it was. I reckon
it was a big white flag they rared up. It was so they would stop fighting.

"Mars Sam Shan didn't go to no war; he hid out. He said it was a useless war, he wasn't going
to get shot up for no use a tall, and he never went a step. He hid out. I don't know where.
I know Charles would take the baskets off. Charles tended to the stock and the carriage. He
drove the wagon and carriage. He fetched water and wood. He was a black boy. Mars Sam Shan
said he wasn't goiner loose his life for nothing.

"Miss Cornelia would cook corn light bread and muffins and anything else they had to cook.
Rations got down mighty scarce before it was done wid. They put the big round basket nearly
big as a split cotton basket out on the back portico. Charles come and disappear with it.

"Chess and Charles was colored overseers. He didn't have white overseers. Miss Cornelia and
Miss Cloe would walk the floor and cry and I would walk between. I would cry feeling sorry
for them, but I didn't know why they cried so much. I know now it was squally times. War is
horrible.

"Mars Sam Shan come home, went down to the cabins--they was scattered over the fields--and
told them the War was over, they was free but that they could stay. Then come some runners,
white men. They was Yankee men. I know that now. They say you must get pay or go off. We stayed
that year. Another man went to pa and said he would give him half of what he made. He got us
all up and we went to Pleasant Hill. We done tolerable well.

"Then he tried to buy a house and five acres and got beat out of it. The minor heirs come and
took it. I never learnt in books till I went to school. Seem like things was in a confusion
after I got big nough for that. I'd sweep and rake and cook and wash the dishes, card, spin,
hoe, scour the floors and tables. I would knit at night heap of times. We'd sing some at night.

"Colored folks couldn't read so they couldn't sing at church lessen they learnt the songs by
hearing them at home. Colored folks would meet and sing and pray and preach at the cabins.

"My first teacher was a white man, Mr. Babe Willroy. I went to him several short sessions and
on rainy days and cold days I couldn't work in the field. I worked in the field all my life.
Cook out in the winter, back to the field in the spring till fall again.

"Well, I jes' had this one girl. I carried her along with me. She would play round and then
she was a heap of help. She is mighty good to me now.

"I never seen a Ku Klux in my life. Now, I couldn't tell you about them.

"My parents' names was Lou Sanders and Anthony Sanders. Ma's mother was a Rockmore and her
husband was a Cherokee Indian. I recollect them well. He was a free man and was fixing to buy
her freedom. Her young mistress married Mr. Joe Bues and she heired her. Mr. Joe Bues drunk
her up and they come and got her and took her off. They run her to Memphis before his wife
could write to her pa. He was Mars Rockmore.

"Grandma was put on a block and sold fore grandpa could cumerlate nough cash to buy her for
his wife. Grandma never seen her ma no more. Grandpa followed her and Mr. Sam Shans bought
her and took her to Mississippi with a lot more he bought.

"My pa's ma b'long to John Sanders and grandpa b'long to Rube Sanders. They was brothers. Rube
Sanders bought grandpa from Enoch Bobo down in Mississippi. The Bobo's had a heap of slaves
and land. Now, he was the one that sold gingercakes. He was a blacksmith too. Both my grandpas
was blacksmiths but my Indian grandpa could make wagons, trays, bowls, shoes, and things out
of wood too. Him being a free man made his living that way. But he never could cumolate enough
to buy grandma.

"My other grandma was blacker than I am and grandpa too. When grandpa died he was carried back
to the Bobo graveyard and buried on Enoch Bobo's place. It was his request all his slaves be
brought back and buried on his land. I went to the burying. I recollect that but ma and pa
had to ask could we go. We all got to go--all who wanted to go. It was a big crowd. It was
John Sanders let us go mean as he was.

"Miss Cornelia had the cistern cleaned out and they packed up their pretty china dishes and
silver in a big flat sorter box. Charles took them down a ladder to the bottom of the dark
cistern and put dirt over it all and then scattered some old rubbish round, took the ladder
out. The Yankees never much as peared to see that old open cistern. I don't know if they buried
money or not. They packed up a lot of nice things. It wasn't touched till after the War was over.

"I been farming and cooking all my life. I worked for Major Black, Mr. Ben Tolbert, Mr. Williams
at Pleasant Hill, Mississippi. I married and long time after come to Arkansas. They said you
could raise stock here--no fence law.

"I get $8 and commodities because I am blind. I live with my daughter here."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Nellie Maxwell, Biscoe, Arkansas Age: 63

"Mama was Harriett Baldwin. She was born in Virginia. Her owners was Mistress Mollie Fisher
and Master Coon Fisher. It was so cold one winter that they burned up their furniture keeping
a fire. Said seemed like they would freeze in spite of what all they could do.

"Grandpa was sold away from grandma and three children. He didn't want to be sold nary bit.
When they would be talking about selling him he go hide under the house. They go on off. He'd
come out. When he was sold he went under there. He come out and went on off when they found
him and told him he was sold to this man. Grandma said he was obedient. They never hit him.
He was her best husband. They never sold grandma and she couldn't 'count for him being let
go. Grandma had another husband after freedom and two more children. They left there in a crowd
and all come to Arkansas. Grandma was a cook for the field hands. She had charge of ringing
a big dinner-bell hung up in a tree. She was black as charcoal. Mama and grandma said Master
Coon and old Mistress Mollie was good to them. That the reason grandpa would go under the house.
He didn't want to be sold. He never was seen no more by them.

"Grandma said sometimes the meals was carried to the fields and they fed the children out of
troughs. They took all the children to the spring set them in a row. They had a tubful of water
and they washed them dried them and put on their clean clothes. They used homemade lye soap
and greased them with tallow and mutton suet. That made them shine. They kept them greased
so their knees and knuckles would ruff up and bleed.

"Grandma and mama stopped at Fourche Dam. They was so glad to be free and go about. Then it
scared them to hear talk of being sold. It divided them and some owners was mean.

"In my time if I done wrong most any grown person whoop me. Then mama find it out, she give
me another one. I got a double whooping.

"Times is powerful bad to raise up a family. Drinking and gambling, and it takes too much to
feed a family now. Times is so much harder that way then when I was growing."

Interviewer: Miss Sallie C. Miller Person interviewed: Ann May, Clarksville, Arkansas Age: 82

"I was born at Cabin Creek (Lamar now, but I still call it Cabin Creek. I can't call it anything
else). I was sold with my mother when I was a little girl and lived with our white folks until
after the war and was freed. We lived on a farm. My father belong to another family, a neighbor
of ours. We all lived with the white folks. My mother took care of all of them. They was always
as good as they could be to us and after the war we stayed on with the white folks who owned
my father and worked on the farm for him. His master gave us half of everything we made until
we could get started our selves, then our white folks told my father to homestead a place near
him, and he did. We lived there until after father died. We paid taxes and lived just like
the white folks. We did what the white folks told us to do and never lost a thing by doing
it. After I married my husband worked at the mill for your father and made a living for me
and I worked for the white folks. Now I am too old to cook but I have a few washin's for the
white folks and am getting my old age pension that helps me a lot.

"I don't know what I think about the young generation. I aim at my stopping place.

"The songs we sang were

  'Come ye that love the Lord and let your Joys be known'
  'When You and I Were Young, Maggie'
  'Juanita'
  'Just Before the Battle, Mother'
  'Darling Nellie Gray'
  'Carry Me Back to Old Virginia'
  'Old Black Joe'

Of course we sang 'Dixie.' We had to sing that, it was the leading song."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Joe Mayes, Madison, Arkansas Age: ?

"I was born a slave two years. I never will forget man come and told mother she was free. She
cooked. She never worked in the field till after freedom. In a few days another man come and
made them leave. They couldn't hold them in Kentucky. The owners give her provisions, meat,
lasses, etc. They give her her clothes. She had four children and I was her youngest. The two
oldest was girls. Father was dead. I don't remember him. Mother finally made arrangements to
go to Will Bennett's place.

"Another thing I remember: Frank Hayes sold mother to Isaac Tremble after she was free. She
didn't know she was free. Neither did Isaac Tremble. I don't know whether Frank Mayes was honest
or not. The part I remember was that us boys stood on the block and never was parted from her.
We had to leave our sisters. One was sold to Miss Margaret Moxley, the other to Miss Almyra
Winder. (He said "Miss" but they may have been widows. He didn't seem to know--ed.) Father
belong to a Master Mills. All our family got together after we found out we had been freed.

"The Ku Klux: I went to the well little after dark. It was a good piece from our house. I looked
up and saw a man with a robe and cap on. It scared me nearly to death. I nearly fell out. I
had heard about the 'booger man' and learned better then. But there he was. I had heard a lot
about Ku Klux.

"There was a big gourd hanging up by the well. We kept it there. There was a bucket full up.
He said, 'Give me water.' I handed over the gourd full. He done something with it. He kept
me handing him water. He said, 'Hold my crown and draw me up another bucket full.' I was so
scared I lit out hard as I could run. It was dark enough to hide me when I got a piece out
of his way.

"The owners was pretty good to mother to be slavery. She had clothes and enough to eat all
the time. I used to go back to see all our white folks in Kentucky. They are about all dead
now I expect. Mother was glad to be free but for a long time her life was harder.

"After we got up larger she got along better. I worked on a steamboat twelve or thirteen years.
I was a roustabout and freight picker. I was on passenger boats mostly but they carried freight.
I went to school some. I always had colored teachers. I farmed at Hughes and Madison ever since
excepting one year in Mississippi.

"I live alone. I get $8 and commodities from the Sociable Welfare.

"The young folks would do better, work better, if they could get work all time. It is hard
at times to get work right now. The times is all right. Better everything but work. I know
colored folks is bad managers. That has been bad on us always.

"I worked on boats from Evansville, St. Louis, Memphis to New Orleans mostly. It was hard work
but a fine living. I was stout then."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Jesse Meeks
                    707 Elm Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 76
Occupation: Minister

"I am seventy-six. 'Course I was young in slavery times, but I can remember some things. I
remember how they used to feed us. Put milk and bread or poke salad and corn-meal dumplin's
in a trough and give you a wooden spoon and all the children eat together.

"We stayed with our old master fourteen years. They were good folks and treated us right. My
old master's name was Sam Meeks--in Longview, Drew County, Arkansas, down here below Monticello.

"I got a letter here about a month ago from the daughter of my young mistress. I wrote to my
young mistress and she was dead, so her daughter got the letter. She answered it and sent me
a dollar and asked me was I on the Old Age Pension list.

"As far as I know, I am the onliest one of the old darkies living that belonged to Sam Meeks.

"I remember when the Ku Klux run in on my old master. That was after the War. He was at the
breakfast table with his wife. You know in them days they didn't have locks and keys. Had a
hole bored through a board and put a peg in it, and I know the Ku Klux come up and stuck a
gun through the auger hole and shot at old master but missed him. He run to the door and shot
at the Ku Klux. I know us children found one of 'em down at the spring bathin' his leg where
old master had shot him.

"Oh! they were good folks and treated us right." He said he could 'give you a hand.' If you
and your wife wasn't gettin' along very well and you wanted to get somebody else, he said he
could 'give you a hand' and that would enable you to get anybody you wanted. That's what he said.

"And I've heard 'em say they could make a ring around you and you couldn't get out.

"I don't believe in that though 'cause I'm in the ministerial work and it don't pay me to believe
in things like that. That is the work of the devil."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Jeff Metcalf
                    R.F.D., Brinkley, Arkansas
Age: 73

"My mother's name was Julia Metcalf and my father's name was Jim Metcalf. They belong to an
old bachelor named Bill Metcalf. I think I was born in Lee County, Mississippi. They did not
leave when the war was over. They stayed on the Bill Metcalf place till they died. I reckon
I do remember him.

"I can't tell you 'bout the war nor slavery. I don't know a thing 'bout it. I heard but I couldn't
tell you it been so long ago. They didn't expect nothing but freedom. They got along in the
Reconstruction days about like they had been getting along. Seemed like they didn't know much
about the war. They heard they was free. I don't remember the Ku Klux Klan. I heard old folks
talk 'bout it.

"I don't know if my father ever voted but I guess he did. I have voted but I don't vote now.
In part I 'proves of the women votin'. I think the men outer vote and support his family fur
as he can.

"I come here in 1914 from Mississippi. I got busted farmin'. I knowed a heap o' people said
they was doing so well I come too. I come on the train.

"I ain't got no home, no land. I got a hog. No garden. Two times in the year now is hard--winter
and simmer. In some ways times is better. In some ways they is worser. When a trade used to
be made to let you have provisions, you know you would not starve. Now if you can't get work
you 'bout starve and can't get no credit. Crops been good last few years and prices fair fur
it. But money won't buy nothin' now. Everything is so high. Meat is so high. Working man have
to eat meat. If he don't he get weak.

"The young folks do work. They can't save much farmin'. If they could do public work between
times it be better. I had a hard time in July and August. I got six children, they grown and
gone. My wife is 72 years old. She ain't no 'count for work no more. The Government give me
an' her $10 a month between us two. Her name is Hannah Metcalf.

"I wish I did know somethin' to tell you, lady, 'bout the Civil War and the slavery times.
I done forgot 'bout all I heard 'em talkin'. When you see Hannah she might know somethin'."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Hardy Miller
                    702-1/2 W. Second Avenue, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 85
Occupation: Yardman

"Mistress, I'll tell you what my mother said. She said she birthed me on Christmas morning
in 1852 in Sumpter County, Georgia. It was on her old master's place. Bright Herring was his
name. Old mistress' name was Miss Lizzie. My father belonged to a different owner.

"Mac McClendon and John Mourning was two nigger traders and they brought my mother and sister
Nancy and sister Liza and my sister Anna and Hardy Miller--that's me--out here on the train
from Americus, Georgia to Memphis and put us on a steamboat and brought us here to Pine Bluff
and sold me to Dr. Pope. He was a poor white man and he wanted a pair of niggers. He bought
me and Laura Beckwith. In them days a doctor examined you and if your heart was sound and your
lungs was sound and you didn't have no broken bones--have to pay one hundred dollars for every
year you was old. That was in 1862 and I was ten years old so they sold me for one thousand
dollars and one thousand dollars for Laura cause she was sound too. Carried us down to Monticello
and when I got free my mammy come after me.

"Fore I left Georgia, my daddy belonged to a man named Bill Ramsey. You see niggers used the
name of their masters.

"I can remember when I was a boy Bill Ramsey set my father free and give him a free pass and
anybody hire him have to pay just like they pay a nigger now. My daddy hired my mammy from
her master. My mammy was her master's daughter by a colored woman.

"My daddy had a hoss named Salem and had a cart and he would take me and my mammy and my sister
Liza and go to Americus and buy rations for the next week.

"I member when the war started in 1861 my mammy hired me out to Mrs. Brewer and she used to
git after me and say, 'You better do that good or I'll whip you. My husband gone to war now
on account of you niggers and it's a pity you niggers ever been cause he may get killed and
I'll never see him again.'

"I member seein' General Bragg's men and General Steele and General Marmaduke. Had a fight
down at Mark's Mill. We just lived six miles from there. Seen the Yankees comin' by along the
big public road. The Yankees whipped and fought em so strong they didn't have time to bury
the dead. We could see the buzzards and carrion crows. I used to hear old mistress say, 'There
goes the buzzards, done et all the meat off.' I used to go to mill and we could see the bones.
Used to got out and look at their teeth. No ma'm, I wasn't scared, the white boys was with me.

"Dr. Pope was good to me, better to me than he was to Master Walter and Master Billy and my
young Miss, Aurelia, cause me and Laura was scared of em and we tried to do everything they wanted.

"When the war ended in 1865 we was out in the field gettin' pumpkins. Old master come out and
said, 'Hardy, you and Laura is free now. You can stay or you can go and live with somebody
else.' We stayed till 1868 and then our mammies come after us. I was seventeen.

"After freedom my mammy sent me to school. Teacher's name was W.H. Young. Name was William
Young but he went under the head of W.H. Young.

"I went to school four years and then I got too old. I learned a whole lot. Learned to read
and spell and figger. I done pretty good. I learned how to add and multiply and how to cancel
and how to work square root.

"What I've been doin' all my life is farmin' down at Fairfield on the Murphy place.

"Vote? Good lord! I done more votin'. Voted for all the Presidents. Yankees wouldn't let us
vote Democrat, had to vote Republican. They'd be there agitatin'. Stand right there and tell
me the ones to vote for. I done quit votin'. I voted for Coolidge--we called him College--that's
the last votin' I did. One of my friends, Levi Hunter, he was a colored magistrate down at
Fairfield.

"Ku Klux? What you talkin' about? Ku Klux come to our house. My sister Ellen's husband went
to war on the Yankee side durin' the war--on the Republican side and fought the Democrats.

"After the war the Ku Klux came and got the colored folks what fought and killed em. I saw
em kill a nigger right off his mule. Fell off on his sack of corn and the old mule kep' on goin'.

"Ku Klux used to wear big old long robe with bunches of cotton sewed all over it. I member
one time we was havin' church and a Ku Klux was hid up in the scaffold. The preacher was readin'
the Bible and tellin' the folks there was a man sent from God and say an angel be here directly.
Just then the Ku Klux fell down and the niggers all thought 'twas the angel and they got up
and flew.

"Ku Klux used to come to the church well and ask for a drink and say, 'I ain't had a bit of
water since I fought the battle of Shiloh.'

"Might as well tell the truth--had just as good a time when I was a slave as when I was free.
Had all the hog meat and milk and everything else to eat.

"I member one time when old master wasn't at home the Yankees come and say to old mistress,
'Madam, we is foragin'.' Old mistress say, 'My husband ain't home; I can't let you.' Yankees
say, 'Well, we're goin' to anyway.' They say, 'Where you keep your milk and butter?' Old mistress
standin' up there, her face as red as blood and say, 'I haven't any milk or butter to spare.'
But the Yankees would hunt till they found it.

"After a battle when the dead soldiers was layin' around and didn't have on no uniform cause
some of the other soldiers took em, I've heard the old folk what knowed say you could tell
the Yankees from the Rebels cause the Yankees had blue veins on their bellies and the Rebels
didn't.

"Now you want me to tell you bout this young nigger generation? I never thought I'd live to
see this young generation come out and do as well as they is doin'. I'm goin' tell you the
truth. When I was young, boys and girls used to wear long white shirt come down to their ankles,
cause it would shrink, with a hole cut out for their head. I think they is doin' a whole lot
better. Got better clothes. Almost look as well as the white folks. I just say the niggers
dressin' better than the white folks used to.

"Then I see some niggers got automobiles. Just been free bout seventy-two years and some of
em actin' just like white folks now.

"Well, good-bye--if I don't see you again I'll meet you in Heaven."

Interviewer: Beulah Sherwood Hagg
Person interviewed: [HW: Henry Kirk] H.K. Miller
                    1513 State Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 86

"No ma'am, it will not bother me one bit if you want to have a long visit with me.... Yes,
I was a little busy, but it can wait. I was getting my dishes ready for a party tomorrow night.

"Yes ma'am, I was born during slavery. I was born at a little place called Fort Valley in Georgia,
July 25, 1851. Fort Valley is about 30 miles from Macon. I came to Little Rock in 1873. My
old mistress was a widow. As well as I can remember she did not have any slaves but my father
and mother and the six children. No ma'am, her name was not Miller, it was Wade.... Where did
I get my name, then? It came from my grandfather on my father's side.... Well, now, Miss, I
can't tell you where he got that name. From some white master, I reckon.

"We got free in Georgia June 15, 1865. I'll never forget that date. What I mean is, that was
the day the big freedom came. But we didn't know it and just worked on. My father was a shoemaker
for old mistress. Only one in town, far as I recollect. He made a lot of money for mistress.
Mother was houseworker for her. As fast as us children got big enough to hire out, she leased
us to anybody who would pay for our hire. I was put out with another widow woman who lived
about 20 miles. She worked me on her cotton plantation. Old mistress sold one of my sisters;
took cotton for pay. I remember hearing them tell about the big price she brought because cotton
was so high. Old mistress got 15 bales of cotton for sister, and it was only a few days till
freedom came and the man who had traded all them bales of cotton lost my sister, but old mistress
kept the cotton. She was smart, wasn't she? She knew freedom was right there. Sister came right
back to my parents.

"Just give me time, miss, and I'll tell you the whole story. This woman what had me hired tried
to run away and take all her slaves along. I don't remember just how many, but a dozen or more.
Lots of white folks tried to run away and hide their slaves until after the Yankee soldiers
had been through the town searching for them what had not been set free. She was trying to
get to the woods country. But she got nervous and scared and done the worst thing she could.
She run right into a Yankee camp. Course they asked where we all belonged and sent us where
we belonged. They had always taught us to be scared of the Yankees. I remember just as well
when I got back to where my mother was she asked me: "Boy, why you come here? Don't you know
old mistress got you rented out? You're goin' be whipped for sure." I told her, no, now we
got freedom. That was the first they had heard. So then she had to tell my father and mother.
She tole them how they have no place to go, no money,--nothing to start life on; they better
stay on with her. So my father and mother kept on with her; she let them have a part of what
they made; she took some for board, as was right. The white ladies what had me between them
fixed it up that I would serve out the time I was rented out for. It was about six months more.
My parents saved money and we all went to a farm. I stayed with them till I was 19 years old.
Of course they got all the money I made. I married when I was 20, still living in Georgia.
We tried to farm on shares. A man from Arkansas came there, getting up a colony of colored
to go to Arkansas to farm. Told big tales of fine land with nobody to work it. Not half as
many Negroes in Arkansas as in Georgia. Me and my wife joined up to go.

"Well, ma'am, I didn't get enough education to be what you call a educated man. My father paid
for a six months night course for me after peace. I learned to read and write and figure a
little. I have used my tablespoon full of brains ever since, always adding to that start. I
learned everything I could from the many white friends I have had. Any way, miss, I have known
enough to make a good living all these years.

"Now I'll get on with the story. First work I got in Arkansas was working on a farm; me and
her both; we always tried to stay together. We could not make anything on the Garner farm,
and it was mighty unhealthy down in Fourche bottoms. I carried her back to Little Rock and
I got work as house man in the Bunch home. From there I went to the home of Dudley E. Jones
and stayed there 28 years. That was the beginning of my catering. I just naturally took to
cooking and serving. White folks was still used to having colored wait on them and they liked
my style. Mr. Jones was so kind. He told his friends about how I could plan big dinners and
banquets; then cook and serve them. Right soon I was handling most of the big swell weddings
for the society folks. Child, if I could call off the names of the folks I have served, it
would be mighty near everybody of any consequence in Little Rock for more than 55 years. Yes
ma'am, I'm now being called on to serve the grandchildren of my first customers.

"During the 28 years I lived in Mr. Jones' family I was serving banquets, big public dinners,
all kinds of big affairs. I have had the spring and fall banquets for the Scottish Rite Masons
for more than 41 years. I have served nearly all the Governor's banquets, college graduation
and reunion parties; I took care of President Roosevelt--not this one, but Teddy----. Served
about 600 that day. Any big parties for colored people?... Yes ma'am! Don't you remember when
Booker T. Washington was here?... No ma'am. White folks didn't have a thing to do with it,
excepting the city let us have the new fire station. It was just finished but the fire engines
ain't moved in yet. I served about 600 that time. Yes ma'am, there was a lot of white folks
there. Then, I have been called to other places to do the catering. Lonoke, Benton, Malvern,
Conway--a heap of places like that.

"No miss, I didn't always have all the catering business; oh, no. There was Mr. Rossner. He
was a fine man. White gentleman. I used to help him a lot. But when he sold out to Bott, I
got a lot of what business Mr. Rossner had had, Mr. Bott was a Jew. All that time my wife was
my best helper. I took a young colored fellow named Freeling Alexander and taught him the business.
He never been able to make it go on his own, but does fine working on salary. He has a cafeteria
now.

"Well thank you miss, speaking about my home like that. Yes ma'am, I sure do own it. Fifty-two
years I been living right here. First I bought the lot; it took me two years to pay for it.
Next I build a little house. The big pin oak trees out front was only saplings when I set them
out. Come out in the back yard and see my pecan tree.... It is a giant, ain't it? Yes ma'am,
it was a tiny thing when I set it out fifty-two years ago. Our only child was born in this
house,--a dear daughter--and her three babies were born here too. After my wife and daughter
died, me and the children kept on trying to keep the home together. I have taught them the
catering business. Both granddaughters are high school graduates. The boy is in Mexico. Before
he went he signed his name to a check and said: "Here, grandpa. You ain't going to want for
a thing while I'm gone. If something happens to your catering business, or you get so you can't
work, fill this in for whatever you need." But thank the good Lord, I'm still going strong.
Nobody has ever had to take care of H.K. Miller. Now let me tell you something else about this
place. For more than ten years I have been paying $64.64 every year for my part of that asphalt
paving you see out in front. Yes ma'am, the lot is 50 foot front, and I am paying for only
half of it; from my curb line to the middle of the street. Maybe if I live long enough I'll
get it paid for sometime.

"I haven't tried to lay by much money. I don't suppose there is any other colored man--uneducated
like me--what has done more for his community. I have given as high as $80 and $100 at one
time to help out on the church debt or when they wanted to build. I always help in times of
floods and things like that. I've helped many white persons in my lifetime.

"Well, now, I'll tell you what I think about the voting system. I think this. Of course we
are still in subjection to the white people; they are in the majority and have most of the
government on their side. But I think that, er,--er,--well I'll tell you, while it is all right
for them to be at the head of things, they ought to do what is right. Being educated, they
ought to know right from wrong. I believe in the Bible, miss. Look here. This little book--Gospel
of St. John--has been carried in my pocket every day for years and years. And I never miss
a day reading it. I don't see how some people can be so unjust. I guess they never read their
Bible. The reason I been able to make my three-score years and ten is because I obeys what
the Good Book says.

"Now, let me see. I can remember that I been voting mighty near ever since I been here. I never
had any trouble voting. I have never been objected from voting that I remember of.

"Now you ask about what I think of the young people. Well, I tell you. I think really that
the young people of today had better begin to check up, a little. They are going too fast.
They don't seem to have enough consideration. When I see so many killed in automobile accidents,
and know that drinking is the cause of so many car accidents,--well, yes ma'am, drinking sure
does have a lot to do with it. I think they should more consider the way they going to make
a living. Make a rule to look before they act. Another thing--the education being given them--they
are not taking advantage of it. If they would profit by what they learn they could benefit
theirselves. A lot of them now spend heap of time trying to get to be doctors and lawyers and
like that. That is a mistake. There is not enough work among colored people to support them.
I know. Negroes do not have confidence in their race for this kind of business. No ma'am. Colored
will go for a white doctor and white lawyer 'cause they think they know more about that kind
of business. I would recommend as the best means of making a living for colored young people
is to select some kind of work that is absolutely necessary to be done and then do it honestly.
The trades, carpentering, paper hanging, painting, garage work. Some work that white people
need to have done, and they just as soon colored do it as white. White folks ain't never going
to have Negro doctors and lawyers, I reckon. That's the reason I took up catering--even that
long ago. Fifty-five years ago I knew to look around and find some work that white folks would
need done. There's where your living comes from.

"Yes, miss, my business is slack--falling off, as you say. Catering is not what it used to
be. You see, 30 or 40 years ago, people's homes were grand and big; big dining rooms, built
for parties and banquets. But for the big affairs with 500 or 600 guests, they went to the
hotels. Even the hotels had to rent my dishes, silver and linens.... Oh, lord, yes, miss. I
always had my own. It took me ten years to save enough money to start out with my first 500
of everything.... You want to see them?... Sure, I keep them here at home.... Look. Here's
my silver chests, all packed to go. I have them divided into different sizes. This one has
fifty of every kind of silver, so if fifty guests are to be provided for. I keep my linens,
plates of different sizes, glasses and everything the same way. A 200-guest outfit is packed
in those chests over there. No, ma'am, I don't have much trouble of losing silver, because
it all has my initials on; look: H.K.M. on every piece. Heap of dishes are broken every time
I have a big catering. I found one plate yesterday--the last of a full pattern I had fifteen
years ago. About every ten years is a complete turnover of china. Glassware goes faster, and
of course, the linen is the greatest overhead. Yes ma'am, as I was telling you, catering is
slack because of clubs. So many women take their parties to clubs now. Another thing, the style
of food has changed. In those old days, the table was loaded with three four meats, fish, half
dozen vegetable dishes, entrees, different kinds of wine, and an array of desserts. Now what
do they have? Liquid punch, frozen punch and cakes. In June I had a wedding party for 400,
and that's all they served. I had to have 30 punch bowls, but borrowed about half from my white
friends.

"You have got that wrong about me living with my grandchildren. No ma'am! They are living with
me. They make their home with me. I don't expect ever to marry again. I'm 86. In my will I
am leaving everything I have to my three grandchildren.

"Well, miss, you're looking young and blooming. Guess your husband is right proud of you? Say
you're a widow? Well, now, my goodness. Some of these days a fine man going to find you and
then, er--er, lady, let me cater for the wedding?"

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Henry Kirk Miller [HW: Same as H.K. Miller]
                    1513 State Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age 87 [HW: 86]

"I am eighty-six years old-eighty-six years and six months. I was born July 25, 1851. I was
a slave. Didn't get free till June 1865. I was a boy fifteen years old when I got free.

"I have been living in this house fifty years. I have been living in Arkansas ever since 1873.
That makes about sixty-five years.

"The engineer who got killed in that wreck the other day (a wreck which occurred February 7,
1938, Monday morning at three and in which the engineer and five other people were killed)
came right from my town, Fort Valley, Georgia. I came here from there in 1873. I don't know
anybody living in Fort Valley now unless it's my own folks. And I don't 'spect I'd know them
now. When I got married and left there, I was only twenty-one years old.

Parents and Relatives

"My mother and father were born in South Carolina. After their master and missis married they
came to Georgia. Back there I don't know. When I remember anything they were in Georgia. They
said they came from South Carolina to Georgia. I don't know how they came. Both of my parents
were Negroes. They came to Arkansas ahead of me. I have their pictures." (He carried me into
the parlor and showed me life-sized bust portraits of his mother and father.)

"There were eighteen of us: six boys and twelve girls. They are all dead now but myself and
one sister. She lives in Atlanta, Georgia. I am older than she is.

Occupation

"I am a caterer. I have been serving the Scottish Rite Masons in their annual reunion every
six months for forty-one years. We are going to the Seventh Street Entrance this Friday. One
of the orders will have a dinner and I am going down to serve it. I served the dinner for Teddy
Roosevelt there, thirty years ago. This Roosevelt is a cousin of his.

Masters

"My parents' master was named Wade. When he died, I was so little that they had to lift me
up to let me see into the coffin so I could look at him. I went to his daughter. My name is
after my father's father. My grandfather was named Miller. I took his name. He was a white man.

"Wade's daughter was named Riley, but I keep my grandfather's name. My mother and father were
then transferred to the Rileys too, and they took the name of Riley. It was after freedom that
I took the name Miller from my original people. Haven Riley's father was my brother." (Haven
Riley lives in Little Rock and was formerly an instructor at Philander Smith College. Now he
is a public stenographer and a private teacher.)

"Wade owned all of my brothers and sisters and parents and some of my kin--father's sister
and brother. There might have been some more I can't remember. Wade was a farmer.

"I remember once when my mother and father were going to the field to work, I went with them
as usual. That was before Wade died and his daughter drew us.

"My wife died six years ago. If she had lived till tomorrow, she would have been married to
me sixty years. She died on the tenth of February and we were married on the sixth. We just
lacked five years of being married sixty years when she died.

Food

"For food, I don't know anything more than bread and meat. Meal, meat, molasses were the only
rations I saw. In those times the white people had what was known as the white people's house
and then what was known as nigger quarters. The children that weren't big enough to work were
fed at the white people's house. We got milk and mush for breakfast. When they boiled cabbage
we got bread and pot-liquor. For supper we got milk and bread. They had cows and the children
were fed mostly on milk and mush or milk and bread. We used to bake a corn cake in the ashes,
ash cake, and put it in the milk.

"The chickens used to lay out in the barn. If we children would find the nests and bring the
eggs in our missis would give us a biscuit, and we always got biscuits for Christmas.

Houses in the Negro Quarters

"In the nigger quarters there were nothing but log houses. I don't remember any house other
than a log house. They'd just go out in the woods and get logs and put up a log house. Put
dirt and mud or clay in the cracks to seal it. Notch the logs in the end to hitch them at corners.
Nailed planks at the end of the logs to make a door frame.

"My people all ate and cooked and lived in the same room. Some of the slaves had dirt floors
and some of them had plank floors.

"Food was kept in the house in a sort of box or chest, built in the wall sometimes. Mostly
it was kept on the table.

"In cooking they had a round oven made like a pot only the bottom would be flat. It had an
iron top. The oven was a bought oven. It was shaped like a barrel. The top lifted up. Coal
was placed under the oven and a little on top.

Tables and Chairs

"Tables were just boards nailed together. Nothing but planks nailed together. I don't remember
nothing but homemade benches for chairs. They sometimes made platted or split-bottom chairs
out of white oak. Strips of oak were seven feet long. They put them in water so they would
bend easily and wove them while they were flexible and fresh. The whole chair bottom was made
out of one strip just like in caning. Those chairs were stouter than the chairs they make now."

(To be continued) [TR: No continuation found.]

Interviewer: Mrs. Annie L. LaCotts
Person interviewed: Matilda Miller
                    Humphrey, Ark.
Age: 79

The day of the interview Matilda, a nice clean-looking Negro woman, was in bed, suffering from
some kind of a pain in her head. She lives in a little two-room unpainted boxed house beside
the highway in Humphrey. Her house is almost in the shadow of the big tank which was put up
recently when the town acquired its water system.

When told that the visitor wanted to talk with her about her early life, Matilda said, "Well,
honey, I'll tell you all I can, but you see, I was just a little girl when the war was, but
I've heard my mother tell lots of things about then.

"I was born a slave; my mother and daddy both were owned by Judge Richard Gamble at Crockett's
Bluff. I was born at Boone Hill--about twelve miles north of DeWitt--and how come it named
Boone Hill, that farm was my young mistress's. Her papa give it to her, just like he give me
to her when I was little, and after she married Mr. Oliver Boone and lived there the farm always
went by the name of 'Boone Hill.' The house is right on top of a hill, you know, it shure was
a pretty place when Miss Georgia lived there, with great big Magnolia trees in the front yard.
I belonged to Miss Georgia, my young mistress, and when the niggers were freed my mamma staid
on with her. She was right there when both of his chillun were born, Mr. John Boone and Miss
Mary, too. I nursed both of them chillun. You know who Miss Mary is now, don't you? Yes'um,
she's Mr. Lester Black's wife and he's good, too.

"I was de oney child my mother had till twelve years after the surrender. You see, my papa
went off with Yankees and didn't come back till twelve years after we was free, and then I
had some brothers and sisters. Exactly nine months from the day my daddy come home, I had a
baby brother born. My mother said she knew my daddy had been married or took up with some other
woman, but she hadn't got a divorce and still counted him her husband. They lived for a long
time with our white folks, for they were good to us, but you know after the boys and girls
got grown and began to marry and live in different places, my parents wanted to be with them
and left the white folks.

"No mam, I didn't see any fighting, but we could hear the big guns booming away off in the
distance. I was married when I was 21 to Henry Miller and lived with him 51 years and ten months;
he died from old age and hard work. We had two chillun, both girls. One of them lives here
with me in that other room. Mamma said the Yankees told the Negroes when they got em freed
they'd give em a mule and a farm or maybe a part of the plantation they'd been working on for
their white folks. She thought they just told em that to make them dissatisfied and to get
more of them 'to join up with em' and they were dressed in pretty blue clothes and had nice
horses and that made lots of the Negro men go with them. None of em ever got anything but what
their white folks give em, and just lots and lots of em never come back after the war cause
the Yankees put them in front where the shooting was and they was killed. My husband Henry
Miller died four years ago. He followed public work and made plenty of money but he had lots
of friends and his money went easy too. I don't spect I'll live long for this hurtin' in my
head is awful bad sometime."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Nathan Miller, Madison, Arkansas Age:
Born in 1868

"Lady, I'll tell you what I know but it won't nigh fill your book.

"I was born in 1862 south of Lockesburg, Arkansas. My parents was Marther and Burl Miller.

"They told me their owners come here from North Carolina in 1820. They owned lots of slaves
and lots of land. Mother was medium light--about my color. See, I'm mixed. My hair is white.
I heard mother say she never worked in the field. Father was a blacksmith on the place. He
wasn't a slave. His grandfather willed him free at ten years of age. It was tried in the Supreme
Court. They set him free. Said they couldn't break the dead man's will.

"My father was a real bright colored man. It caused some disturbance. Father went back and
forth to Kansas. They tried to make him leave if he was a free man. They said I would have
to be a slave several years or leave the State. Freedom settled that for me.

"My great grandmother on my mother's side belong to Thomas Jefferson. He was good to her. She
used to tell me stories on her lap. She come from Virginia to Tennessee. They all cried to
go back to Virginia and their master got mad and sold them. He was a meaner man. Her name was
Sarah Jefferson. Mariah was her daughter and Marther was my mother. They was real dark folks
but mother was my color, or a shade darker.

"Grandmother said she picked cotton from the seed all day till her fingers nearly bled. That
was fore gin day. They said the more hills of tobacco you could cultivate was how much you
was worth.

"I don't remember the Ku Klux. They was in my little boy days but they never bothered me.

"All my life I been working hard--steamboat, railroad, farming. Wore clean out now.

"Times is awful hard. I am worn clean out. I am not sick. I'm ashamed to say I can't do a good
day's work but I couldn't. I am proud to own I get commodities and $8 from the Relief."

Interviewer: Thomas Elmore Lacy Person interviewed: Sam Miller, Morrilton, Arkansas Age: 98

"I is ninety-eight years old, suh. My name's Sam Miller, and I was born in Texas in 1840--don't
know de month nor de day. My parents died when I was jes' a little chap, and we come to Conway
County, Arkansas fifty years ago; been livin' here ever since. My wife's name was Annie Williamson.
We ain't got no chillun and never had none. I don't belong to no chu'ch, but my wife is a Baptis'.

"Can't see to git around much now. No, suh, I can't read or write, neither. My memory ain't
so good about things when I was little, away back yonder, but I sure members dem Ku Klux Klans
and de militia. They used to ketch people and take em out and whup em.

"Don't rickolleck any of de old songs but one or two--oh, yes, dey used to sing 'Old time religion's
good enough for me' and songs like dat.

"De young people! Lawzy, I jest dunno how to take em. Can't understand em at all. Dey too much
for me!"

NOTE: The old fellow chuckled and shook his head but said very little more. He could have told
much but for his faulty memory, no doubt. He was almost non-committal as to facts of slavery
days, the War between the States, and Reconstruction period. Has the sense of humor that seems
to be a characteristic of most of the old-time Negroes, but aside from a whimsical chuckle
shows little of the interest that is usually associated with the old generation of Negroes.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: W.D. Miller, West Memphis, Arkansas Age: 65?

"Grandpa was sold twice in Raleigh, North Carolina. He was sold twice to the same people, from
the Millers to the Robertsons (Robersons, Robinsons, etc.?). He said the Robertsons were not
so very good to him but the Millers were. Grandma was washing when a Yank come and told them
they had been sot free. They quit washing and went from house to house rejoicing. My parents'
names was Jesse and Mary Miller, and Grandma Agnes and Grandpa Peter Miller. The Robertsons
was hill wheat farmers. The Millers had a cloth factory. Dan Miller owned it and he raised
wheat. Mama was a puny woman and they worked her in the factory. She made cloth and yarn.

"I was born in Raleigh, North Carolina or close by there. My father's uncle John House brought
about one hundred families from North Carolina to Quittenden County, Mississippi. I was seven
years old. He said they rode mules to pick cotton, it growed up like trees. We come in car
boxes. I came to Heath and Helena eleven years ago. Papa stayed with his master Dan Miller
till my uncle tolled him away. He died with smallpox soon after we come to Mississippi.

"It is a very good country but they don't pick cotton riding on mules, at least I ain't seed
none that way." Cah run ovah mah haid an ah couldn' tawk fuh 30 days. So now ah aint no good
fuh nothin. Ah recollect one night ah dream a dream. De dream at ah dreamt, next morning dat
dream come true. Jes like ah dreamt hit. Yes hit did. Ah wuz heah in slavery time. Ah membuh
when dey freed us niggers. Se here, ah wuz a purty good size kid when dey free us. Ah kin membuh
our house. Sot dis way. An ole Marster called all his niggers up. Dey all come along roun in
a squad on de porch. Ah did not heah whut he said tuh em. But mah step-pa wuz dere an tole
us we wuz free. Ah atter dey freed mah step-pa ah recollect he went on home and fried some
aigs (eggs) in de ubben. Know we didn have no stove we cooked on de fiuhplace. As ah said cook
dem aigs, gimme some uv hit, an he lef' den. Went east and ah aint nevah seed dat man since.
Ah membuhs once ah got a whoopin bout goin tuh de chinquepin tree. Some uv um tole me ole master
wuz gwianter let us quit at dinnuh an so in place uv me goin ter dinnuh ah went on by de chinquepin
tree tuh git some chanks. Ah had a brothuh wid me. So ah come tuh fine out dat dey gin tuh
callin us. Dey hollered tuh come on dat we wuz gointer pick cotton. So in place uv us goin
on tuh de house we went on back tuh de fiel'. Our fiel wuz bout a mile fum de house. Ole Moster
waited down dere at de gate. He call me when ah got dere an wanted tuh know why ah didn come
and git mah dinnah sos ah could pick cotton. So he taken mah britches down dat day. Mah chinks
all run out on de groun' an he tole mah brothah tuh pick um up. Ah knocked mah brothuh ovah
fuh pickin um up an aftuh ah done dat ole moster taken his red pocket han'cher out and tied
hit ovah mah eyes tuh keep me fum seein mah brothuh pick um up.

So when he got through wid me and put mah britches back on me ah went on tuh de fiel and went
tuh pickin cotton. Dat evenin when us stop pickin cotton ah took mah brothah down and taken
mah chinquapins.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Gip Minton, Des Arc, Arkansas Age: 84

"I was born at Jackson, Alabama on the Tennessee River. It was sho a putty river. I never did
know my grandfolks. I think my father was a soldier. My master was a soldier, I think. He was
in de war. I do remember the Civil War. I remember the last battle at Scottsboro. There was
several but one big battle and they got to Belfontain. That is where it seemed they were trying
to go. I don't recollect who won the battle. I heard them fighting and saw the smoke and after
they went on saw the bodies dead and all that was left was like a cyclone had swept by. There
was a big regiment stationed at Scottsboro. It was just like any war fought with guns and they
lived in tents. They took everything they could find. Looked like starvation was upon de land.

"I had two sisters and one brother and my mother died when I was a baby. I come out here to
Arkansas with my mothers old master and mistress and never did see nor hear of none of them.
No I never did hear from none of them. I come out here when I was ten or twelve years old.
It was, it was right after the war. I recken I was freed, but I was raised by white folks and
I stayed right on wid em. Dat freedom ain't never bothered me.

"My master and mistress names was Master Alfred Minton. Dey call me Gip for him. Gip Minton
is what they always called me. My mistress was Miss Annie Minton. I stayed right wid em. They
raised me and I come on here wid em. I don't know nothin about that freedom.

"I recken they was good to me. I et in de kitchen when they got through or on a table out in
de back yard sometimes. I slept in an outhouse they fixed up mostly, when I got up big.

"We come on the train to Memphis and they come on thater way to Lonoke whar we settled. Don
Shirley was the man I come on horseback with from Memphis to Lonoke. He was a man what dealt
in horses. Sure he was a white man. He's where we got some horses. I don't remember if he lived
at Lonoke or not.

"I have voted, yes ma'am, a heap of times. I don't remember what kind er ticket I votes. I'm
a Democrat, I think so. I ain't voted fur sometime now. I don't know if I'll vote any more
times or not. I don't know what is right bout votin and what ain't right.

"When I was a boy I helped farm. We had what we made. I guess it was plenty. I had more to
eat and I didn't have as many changes of clothes as folks has to have nowdays bout all de difference.
They raised lots more. They bought things to do a year and didn't be allus goin to town. It
was hard to come to town. Yes mam it did take a long time, sometimes in a ox wagon. The oxen
pulled more over muddy roads. Took three days to come to town and git back. I farmed one-half-for-the-other
and on shear crop. Well one bout good as the other. Bout all anybody can make farmin is plenty
to eat and a little to wear long time ago and nows the same way. The most I reckon I ever did
make was on Surrounded Hill (Biscoe) when I farmed one-half-fur-de-udder for Sheriff Reinhardt.
The ground was new and rich and the seasons hit just fine. No maam I never owned no farm, no
livestock, no home. The only thing I owned was a horse one time. I worked 16 or 17 years for
Mr. Brown and for Mr. Plunkett and Son. I drayed all de time fur em. Hauled freight up from
the old depot (wharf) down on the river. Long time fore a railroad was thought of. I helped
load cotton and hides on the boats. We loaded all day and all night too heap o'nights. We worked
till we got through and let em take the ship on.

"The times is critical for old folks, wages low and everything is so high. The young folks
got heap better educations but seems like they can't use it. They don't know how to any avantage.
I know they don't have as good chances at farmin as de older folks had. I don't know why it
is. My son works up at the lumber yard. Yes he owns this house. That's all he owns. He make
nough to get by on, I recken. He works hard, yes maam. He helps me if he can. I get $4 a month
janitor at the Farmers and Merchants Bank (Des Arc). I works a little garden and cleans off
yards. No maam it hurts my rheumatism to run the yard mower. I works when I sho can't hardly
go. Nothin matter cept I'm bout wo out. I plied for the old folks penshun but I ain't got nuthin
yet. I signed up at the bank fur it agin not long ago. I has been allus self sportin. Didn't
pend on no livin soul but myself."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: A.J. Mitchell
                    419 E. 11th Avenue, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 78
Occupation: Garbage hauler

"I was 'bout seven when they surrendered. I can remember when my old master sold Aunt Susan.
She raised me. I seen old master when he was tryin' to whip old Aunt Susan. She was the cook.
She said, 'I ain't goin' let you whip me' and I heard my sister say next day he done sold Aunt
Susan. I ain't seed her since. I called her ma. My mother died when I was two years old. She
was full Injun. My father was black but his hair was straight. His face was so black it shined.
Looked like it was greased. My father said he was freeborn and I've seen stripes on his back
look like the veins on back of my hand where they whipped him tryin' to make him disown his
freedom.

"Old Jack Clifton was my master. Yes ma'm, that was his name.

"I 'member when they had those old looms--makin' cloth and old shuttle to put the thread on.
I can see 'em now.

"I can 'member when this used to be a Injun place. I've seen old Injun mounds. White folks
come and run 'em out and give 'em Injun Territory.

"I heered the guns in the war and seed the folks comin' home when the war broke. They said
they was fitin' 'bout freedom, tryin' to free the people. I 'member when they was fitin' at
Marks Mill. I know some of the people said that was where they was sot free.

"I don't know as I seed any Ku Klux when they was goin' round. Hearin' 'bout 'em scared me.
I have a good recollection. I can remember the first dream I ever had and the first time I
whistled. I can remember when I was two or three years old. Remember when they had a big old
conch shell. Old master would blow it at twelve o'clock for 'em to come in.

"Old master was good to us but I 'member he had a leather strap and if we chillun had done
anything he'd make us younguns put our head 'tween his legs and put that strap on us. My goodness!
He called me Pat and called his own son Bug--his own son Junie. We played together. Old master
had nicknames for everybody.

"My first mistress was named Miss Mary but she died. I 'member when old master married and
brought Miss Becky home.

"Marse John (he was old master's oldest son) he used to tote me about in his saddle bags. He
was the overseer.

"I 'member old master's ridin' hoss--a little old bay pony--called him Hardy. I never remember
nobody else bein' on it--that was his ridin' hoss.

"Old master had dogs. One was Gus and one named Brute (he was a red bone hound). And one little
dog they called Trigger. Old master's head as white as cotton.

"I do remember the day they said the people was free--after the war broke. My father come and
got me.

"Now I'm givin' you a true statement. I've been stayin' by myself twenty-three years. I been
here in Pine Bluff--well I jest had got here when the people was comin' back from that German war.

"My God, we had the finest time when we killed hogs--make sausage. We'd eat cracklin's--oh,
we thought they wasn't nothin' like cracklin's. The Lord have mercy, there was an old beech
tree set there in my master's yard. You could hear that old tree pop ever' day bout the same
time, bout twelve o'clock. We used to eat beech mass. Good? Yes ma'm! I think about it often
and wonder why it was right in old master's yard.

"I've cast a many a vote. Not a bit of trouble in the world. Hope elect most all the old officers
here in town. I had a brother was a constable under Squire Gaines. Well of course, Miss, I
don't think it's right when they disfranchised the colored people. I tell you, Miss, I read
the Bible and the Bible says every man has his rights--the poor and the free and the bound.
I got good sense from the time I leaped in this world. I 'member well I used to go and cast
my vote just that quick but they got so they wouldn't let you vote unless you could read.

"I've had 'em to offer me money to vote the Democrat ticket. I told him, no. I didn't think
that was principle. The colored man ain't got no representive now. Colored men used to be elected
to the legislature and they'd go and sell out. Some of 'em used to vote the Democrat ticket.
God wants every man to have his birthright.

"I tell you one thing they did. This here no fence law was one of the lowest things they ever
did. I don't know what the governor was studyin' 'bout. If they would let the old people raise
meat, they wouldn't have to get so much help from the government. God don't like that, God
wants the people to raise things. I could make a livin' but they won't let me.

"The first thing I remember bout studyin' was Junie, old master's son, studyin' his book and
I heard 'em spell the word 'baker'. That was when they used the old Blue Back Speller.

"I went to school. I'm goin' tell you as nearly as I can. That was, madam, let me see, that
was in sixty-nine as near as I can come at it. Miss, I don't know how long I went. My father
wouldn't let me. I didn't know nothin' but work. I weighed cotton ever since I was a little
boy. I always wanted to be weighin'. Looked like it was my gift--weighin' cotton.

"I'm a Missionary Baptist preacher. Got a license to preach. You go down and try to preach
without a license and they put you up.

"Madam, you asked me a question I think I can answer with knowledge and understanding. The
young people is goin' too fast. The people is growin' weaker and wiser. You take my folks--goin'
to school but not doin' anything. I don't think there's much to the younger generation. Don't
think they're doin' much good. I was brought up with what they called fireside teachin'." Date
and time of interview--November 1, 1938, 3:00 p.m.

3. Place of interview--117 Worthen Street

4. In an adjoining room were another bed, heating stove, two trunks, one straight chair, one
rocking chair. A third room the kitchen, contained cookstove and table and chairs.

Text of Interview

"They said I was born in Alabama. My mother's name was Sallie and my father was Andrew Wheeler.
I couldn't tell when I was born--my folks never did tell me that. Belonged to Dr. Moore and
when his daughter married he give my mother to her and she went to Mobile. They said I wasn't
weaned yet. My grandmother told me that. She is dead now. Don't know nothin' bout nary one
o' my white folks. I don't recollect nothin' bout a one of 'em 'cept my old boss. He took us
to Texas and stayed till the niggers was all free and then he went back. Good to me? No ma'm--no
good there. And if you didn't work he'd see what was the matter. Lived near Coffeyville in
Upshaw county. That's whar my husband found me. I was living with my aunt and uncle. They said
the reason I had such a good gift makin' quilts was cause my mother was a seamstress.

"I cooked 'fore I married and I could make my own dresses, piece quilts and quilt. That's mostly
what I done. No laundry work. I never did farm till I was married. After we went to Chicago
in 1922, I took care of other folks chillun, colored folks, while they was working in laundries
and factories. I sure has worked. I ain't nobody to what I was when I was first married. I
knowed how to turn, but I don't know whar to turn now--I ain't able.

"I use to could plow just as good as any man. I could put that dirt up against that cotton
and corn. I'd mold it up. Lay it by? Yes ma'm I'd lay it by, too.

"They didn't send me to school but they learned me how to work.

"I had a quilt book with a lot o' different patterns but I loaned it to a woman and she carried
it to Oklahoma. Mighty few people you can put confidence in nowdays.

"I don't go out much 'cept to church--folks is so critical.

  "You have to mind how you walk on the cross;
  If you don't, your foot will slip,
  And your soul will be lost."

"I was a motherless chile but the Lord made up for it by givin' me a good husband and I don't
want for anything."

Interviewer's Comment

According to her husband, Gracie spends every spare moment piecing quilts. He said they use
to go fishing and that Gracie always took her quilt pieces along and if the fish were not biting
she would sew. She showed me twenty-two finished quilt tops, each of a different design and
several of the same design, or about thirty quilts in all. Two were entirely of silk, two of
applique design which called "laid work". They were folded up in a trunk and as she took them
out and spread them on the bed for me to see she told me the name of the design. The following
are the names of the designs:

  1. Breakfast Dish
  2. Sawtooth (silk)
  3. Tulip design (Laid work)
  4. "Prickle" Pear
  5. Little Boy's Breeches
  6. Birds All Over the Elements
  7. Drunkard's Path
  8. Railroad Crossing
  9. Cocoanut Leaf ("That's Laid Work")
 10. Cotton Leaf
 11. Half an Orange
 12. Tree of Paradise
 13. Sunflower
 14. Ocean Wave (silk)
 15. Double Star
 16. Swan's Nest
 17. Log Cabin in the Lane
 18. Reel
 19. Lily in de Valley (Silk)
 20. Feathered Star
 21. Fish Tail
 22. Whirligig

Gracie showed me her winter coat bought in Chicago of fur fabric called moleskin, and with
fur collar and cuffs.

She sells the quilt tops whenever she can. Many are made of new material which they buy.

Personal History of Informant

1. Ancestry--Father, Andrew Wheeler; Sallie Wheeler, mother.

2. Place and date of birth--Alabama. No date known, about 80 years old.

3. Family--Husband and one grown son.

4. Places lived in, with dates--Alabama, Texas till 1897, Arkansas 1897-1922, Chicago, 1922
to 1930. Arkansas 1930 to date.

5. Education, with dates--No education.

6. Occupations and accomplishments, with dates--Cooked before marriage at 16; farmed after
marriage; home sewing.

7. Special skills and interests--Quilt making and knitting.

8. Community and religious activities--Assisted husband in ministry.

9. Description of informant--Hair divided into many pigtails and wrapped with rags. Skin, dark.
Medium height, slender, clothing soiled.

10. Other points gained in interview--Spends all her time piecing quilts, aside from housework.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: Hettie Mitchell (mulatto)
                    Brinkley, Arkansas
Age: 69

"I am sixty-nine years old. I was raised in Dyersburg, Tennessee. I can tell you a few things
mother told us. My own grandma on mother's side was in South Carolina. She was stole when a
child and brought to Tennessee in a covered wagon. Her mother died from the grief of it. She
was hired out to nurse for these people. The people that stole her was named Spence. She was
a house woman for them till freedom. She was never sold. Spences was not cruel people. Mother
was never sold. She was the mother of twelve and raised nine to a good age--more than grown.
The Spences seemed to always care for her children. When I go to Dyersburg they always want
us to come to see them and they treat us mighty well.

"Mother was light. She said she had Indian strain (blood) but father was very light and it
was white blood but he never discussed it before his children. So I can't tell you excepting
he said he was owned by the Brittians in South Carolina. He said his mother died soon after
he was sold. He was sold to a nigger trader and come in the gang to Memphis, Tennessee and
was put on the block and auctioned off to the highest bidder. He was a farm hand.

"Mother married father when she was nineteen years old. She was a house girl. She lived close
to her old mistress. She was very, very old before she died she nearly stayed at my mother's
house. Her mind wasn't right and mother understood how to take care of her and was kind to
her. The Spences heard about grandma. They wrote and visited years after when mother was a girl.

"The way that father found out about his kin folks was this: One day a creek was named and
he told the white man, 'I was born close to that creek and played there in the white sand and
water when I was a little boy.' The white man asked his name, said he knew the creek well too.
Father told him he never was named till he was sold and they named him Sam--Sam Barnett. He
was sold to Barnett in Memphis. But his dear own mother called him 'Candy.' The white man found
out about his people for him and they found out his own dear mother died that same year he
was taken from South Carolina from grief. He heard from some of his people from that time on
till he died.

"I worked on the farm in Tennessee till I married. I ironed, washed, and have kept my own house
and done the work that goes along with raising a small family. We own our home. We have saved
all we could along. I have never had a real hard time like some I know. I guess my time is
at hand now. I don't know which way to turn since my husband got down sick.

"I don't vote. Seem like it used to not be a nice place for women to go where voting was taking
place. Now they go mix up and vote. That is one big change. Time is changing and changing the
people. Maybe it is the people is changing up the world as time goes by. My parents had five
children. They were named William and Charlotte Wells. My father ran away and left my mother
with all the children to raise. By birth mother was a Mississippian. She had been a nurse and
my father was a timber man and farmer. My mother said she had her hardest time raising her
little children. She was taken from her parents when a small girl and put on a block and sold.
She never said if her owners was bad to her, but she said they was rough on Uncle Peter. He
would fight. She said they would tie Uncle Peter and whoop him with a strap. From what she
said there was a gang of slaves on Mr. Wade's place. He owned her. I never heard her mention
freedom but she said they had a big farm bell on a tall post in the back yard and they had
a horn to blow. It was a whistle made of a cow's horn.

"She said they was all afraid of the Ku Klux. They would ride across the field and they could
see that they was around, but they never come up close to them." Date and time of interview--November
1, 1938, 1:00 p.m.

3. I belonged to Thomas Mitchel and when they (Yankees) took Arkansas Post, our owners gathered
us up and my young master took us to Texas and he sold me to an Irishman named John McInish
in Marshall for $1500. $500 in gold and the rest in Confederate money. They called it the new
issue.

"I was twelve years old then and I stayed in Texas till I was forty-eight. I was at Tyler,
Texas when they freed us. When they took us to Texas they left my mother and baby sister here
in Arkansas, down here on Oak Log Bayou. I never saw her again and when I came back here to
Arkansas, they said she had been dead twenty-eight years. Never did hear of my father again.

"I'm supposed to be part Creek Indian. Don't know how much. We have one son, a farmer, lives
across the river. Married this wife in 1873.

"My wife and I left Texas forty-one years ago and came back here to Arkansas and stayed till
1922. Then we went to Chicago and stayed till 1930, and then came back here. I'd like to go
back up there, but I guess I'm gettin' too old. While I was there I preached and I worked all
the time. I worked on the streets and the driveways in Lincoln Park. I was in the brick and
block department. Then I went from there to the asphalt department. There's where I coined
the money. Made $6.60 in the brick and block and $7.20 a day in the asphalt. Down here they
don't know no more about asphalt than a pig does about a holiday. A man that's from the South
and never been nowhere, don't know nothin', a woman either.

"Yes ma'm, I'm a preacher. Just a local preacher, wasn't ordained. The reason for that was,
in Texas a man over forty-five couldn't join the traveling connection. I was licensed, but
of course I couldn't perform marriage ceremonies. I was just within one step of that.

"I went to school two days in my life. I was privileged to go to the first free school in Texas.
Had a teacher named Goldman. Don't know what year that was but they found out me and another
fellow was too old so they wouldn't let us go no more. But I caught my alphabet in them two
days. So I just caught what education I've got, here and there. I can read well--best on my
Bible and Testament and I read the newspapers. I can sorta scribble my name.

"I've been a farmer most of my life and a preacher for fifty-five years. I can repair shoes
and use to do common carpenter work. I can help build a house. I only preach occasionally now,
here and there. I belong to the Allen Temple in Hoboken (East Pine Bluff).

"I think the young generation is gone to naught. They're a different cut to what they was in
my comin' up."

Interviewer's Comment

This man and his wife live in the outskirts of West pine Bluff. They receive a small sum of
money and commodities from the County Welfare Department. He has a very pleasant personality,
a good memory and intelligence above the ordinary. Reads the Daily Graphic and Arkansas Gazette.
Age 89. He said, "Here's the idea, freedom is worth it all."

Personal History of Informant

1. Ancestry--Father, Lewis Mitchell; Mother, Rhoda Mitchell

2. Place and date of birth--Oak Log Bayou, White River, near Arkansas Post, Ark.

3. Family--Wife and one grown son.

4. Places lived in, with dates--Taken to Texas by his young master and sold in Marshall during
the war. Lived in Tyler, Texas until forty-eight years of age; came back to Arkansas in 1897
and stayed until 1922; went to Chicago and lived until 1930; back to Jefferson County, Arkansas.

5. Education, with dates--Two days after twenty-one years of age. No date.

6. Occupations and accomplishments, with dates--Farmer, preacher, common carpenter, cobbler,
public work on streets in Chicago, farmed and preached until he went to Chicago in 1922. The
he worked in the maintenance department of city streets of Chicago and of Lincoln Park, Chicago.

7. Special skills and interests--Asphalt worker

8. Community and religious activities--Licensed Methodist Preacher. No assignment now.

9. Description of informant--Five feet eight inches tall; weight, 165 pounds, nearly bald.
Very prominent cheek bones. Keen intelligence. Neatly dressed.

10. Other points gained in interview--Reads daily papers; knowledge of world affairs. My father
was a slave to Mr. Bob. I used to drive Miss Lelia (Eulalie) to the Catholic church here in
Pine Bluff. She used to let me go barefooted, and bare headed.

Miss Lelia was the daughter of Col. Creed Taylor. All during slavery time I drove her gins.
We had eight mules. Eight at a time hitched to each lever, they would weave in an out but they
was so hitched that they never got in any body's way. They just walked around and round like
they did in those days. We had herds of sheep, we sheared them and wove yarn for socks. We
raised wheat, when it was ripe we laid a canvas cloth on the ground and put wheat on it, then
men and women on horse back rode over it, and thrashed it that way. They called it treading
it. Then we took it to the mill and ground it and made it into flour. For breakfast, (we ate
awful soon in the morning), about 4 AM, then we packed lunch in tin buckets and eat again at
daylight. Fat meat, cornbread and molasses. Some would have turnip greens for breakfast.

Summertime, Miss Lelia would plant plenty of fruit, and we would have fried apples, stewed
peaches and things.

Sunday mornings we would have biscuit, butter, molasses, chicken, etc.

For our work they paid us seventy-five cents a day and when come cotton picking time old rule,
seventy five cents for pickin cotton. Christmas time, plenty of fireworks, plenty to eat, drink
and everything. We would dance all Christmas.

All kind of game was plentiful, plenty of coon, possum, used up everything that grew in the
woods. Plenty of corn, we took it to the grist mill every Saturday.

Ark. riv. boats passed the Walker place, and dey was a landing right at dere place, and one
at the Wright place, that is where the airport is now.

All de white folks had plenty of cattle den and in de winter time dey was all turned in on
the fields and with what us niggers had, that made a good many, and you know yorself dat was
good for de ground.

Mother was a slave on the Merriweather place, her marster was Mick[TR: name not clear] Merriweather.
My granma was Gusta Merriweather, my mother Lavina and lived on the Merriweather place in what
was then Dorsey county, near Edinburg, now Cleveland Co. My grandfather was Louis Barnett,
owned by Nick Barnett of Cleveland co., then Dorsey co. Fathers people was owned by Marse Bob
Walker. Miss Lelia (Eulalie) was mistis. Miss Maggie Benton was young mistis.

I dont believe in ghosts or spirits.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Emma Moore
                    3715 Short West Second, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 80
Occupation: Laundry work

"I'se born in slavery times. When my daddy come back from the War, he said I was gwine on seven
or eight.

"He stayed in the War three years and six months. I know that's what he always told us. He
went with his master, Joe Horton. Looks like I can see old Marse Joe now. Had long sandy whiskers.
The las' time I seed him he come to my uncle's house. We was all livin' in a row of houses.
Called em the quarters. I never will fergit it.

"I was born on Horton's Island here in Arkansas. That's what they told me.

"I know when my daddy went to war and when he come back, he put on his crudiments (accoutrements)
to let us see how he looked.

"I seed the soldiers gwine to war and comin' back. Look like to me I was glad to see em till
I seed too many of em.

"Yankees used to come down and take provisions. Yes, 'twas the Yankees!

"My granddaddy was the whippin' boss. Had a white boss too named Massa Fred.

"Massa Joe used to come down and play with us chillun. His name was Joe Horton. Ever'body can
tell you that was his name. Old missis named Miss Mary. She didn't play with us much.

"Yes ma'am, they sure did take us to Texas durin' of the War--in a ox wagon. Stayed down there
a long time.

"We didn't have plenty to eat but we had to eat what we did. I member they wouldn't give us
chillun no meat, jus' grease my mouf and make my mother think we had meat.

"Now my mother told me, at night some of the folks used to steal one of old massa's shoats
and cook it at night. I know when that pot was on the rack but you better not say nothin' bout it.

"All us chillun stayed in a big long log house. Dar is where us chillun stayed in the daytime,
right close to Miss Mary.

"I used to sit on the lever at the gin. You know that was glory to me to ride. I whipped the
old mule. Ever' now and then I'd give him a tap.

"When they pressed the cotton, they wet the press and I member one time they wet it too much.
I don't say they sont it back but I think they made em pay for it. And they used to put chunks
in the bale to make it weigh heavy. Right there on that lake where I was born.

"Used to work in the field. These white folks can tell you I loved to work. I used to get as
much as the men. My mammy was a worker and as the sayin' is, I was a chip off the old block.

"The first teacher I went to school to was named Mr. Cushman. Didn't go only on rainy days.
That was the first school and you might say the las' one cause I had to nuss them chillun.

"You know old massa used to keep all our ages and my daddy said I was nineteen when I married,
but I don't know what year 'twas--honest I don't.

"I been married three times.

"I member one time I was goin' to a buryin'. I was hurryin' to get dressed. I wanted to be
ready when they come by for me cause they say it's bad luck to stop a corpse. If you don't
know that I do--you know if they had done started from the house.

"My mama and daddy said they was born in Tennessee and was bought and brought here.

"I been goin' to one of these gov'ment schools and got my eyes so weak I can't hardly see to
thread a needle. I'se crazy bout it I'm tellin' you. I sit up here till God knows how long.
They give me a copy to practice and they'd brag on me and that turned me foolish. I jus' thought
I was the teacher herself almos'. That's the truf now.

"I can't read much. I don't fool with no newspaper. I wish I could, woman--I sure do.

"I keep tellin' these young folks they better learn somethin'. I tell em they better take this
chance. This young generation--I don't know much bout the whites--I'm tellin' you these colored
is a sight.

"Well, I'm gwine away from here d'rectly--ain't gwine be here much longer. If I don't see you
again I'll meet you in heaven."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Patsy Moore, Madison, Arkansas Age: 74

"My mother was sold in Jamestown, Virginia to Daphney Hull. Her white folks got in debt. My
papa was born in Georgia. Folks named Williams owned him. Ma never seen her ma no more but
William Hull went to Virginia and bought her two sisters.

"I was named Patsy after grandma in Virginia. She had twenty-one children to ma's knowing.
Ma was a light color. Pa was a Molly Glaspy man. That means he was Indian and African. Molly
Glaspy folks was nearly always free folks. Ma was named Mattie. If they would have no children
they got trafficked about.

"Daphney Hull was good but William Hull and his wife was both mean. They lived on the main
road to Holly Springs. Daphney Hull was a Methodist man, kind-hearted and good. He was a bachelor
I think. He kept a woman to cook and keep his house. Auntie said the Yankees was mean to Mr.
William Hull's wife. They took all their money and meat. They had their money hid and some
of the black folks let the Yankees find out where it was. They got it.

"Papa was a soldier. He sent for us. We come to Memphis, Tennessee in a wagon. We lived there
five or six years. Pa got a pension till he died. Both my parents was field hands in slavery.
Ma took in washing and ironing in Memphis.

"I was born in De Sota County, Mississippi. I remember Forrest's battle in Memphis. I didn't
have sense to be scared. I seen black and white dead in the streets and alleys. We went to
the magazine house for protection, and we played and stayed there. They tried to open the magazine
house but couldn't.

"When freedom come, folks left home, out in the streets, crying, praying, singing, shouting,
yelling, and knocking down everything. Some shot off big guns. Den come the calm. It was sad
then. So many folks done dead, things tore up and nowheres to go and nothing to eat, nothing
to do. It got squally. Folks got sick, so hungry. Some folks starved nearly to death. Times
got hard. We went to the washtub onliest way we all could live. Ma was a cripple woman. Pa
couldn't find work for so long when he mustered out.

"I do recollect the Civil War well.

"I live with my daughter. I have a cough since I had flu and now I have chills and fever. My
daughter helps me all I get. She lives with me.

"Some of the young folks is mighty good. I reckon some is too loose acting. Times is hard.
Harder in the winter than in summer time. We has our garden and chickens to help us out in summer."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Ada Moorehead
                    2300 E. Barraque, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 82?

"I was here in slavery times, honey, but I don't know exactly how old I am. I was born in Huntsville,
Alabama but you know in them days old folks didn't tell the young folks no thin' and I was
so small when they brought me here. I don't know what year I was born but I believe I'm about
eighty-two. You know when a person ain't able to work and dabble out his own clothes, you know
he's gone a long ways.

"My white folks was Ad White what owned me. Called him Marse Ad. Don't call folks marse much
now-days.

"My father was sold away from us in Alabama and we heard he was here in Pine Bluff so Aunt
Fanny brought us here. She just had a road full of us and brought us here to Arkansas. We walked.
We was a week on the road. I know we started here on Monday morning and we got here to the
courthouse on the next Monday round about noon. That was that old courthouse. I reckon that
ground is in the river now.

"When we got here I saw my father. He took me to his sister--that was my Aunt Savannah--and
dropped me down.

"Mrs. Reynolds raised me. She come to Aunt Savannah's house and hired me the very same day
I got here. I nursed Miss Katie. She was bout a month old. You know--a little long dress baby.
Don't wear then long dresses now--gettin' wiser.

"Mrs. Reynolds she was good to me. And since she's gone looks like I'm gone too--gone to the
dogs. Cause when Mrs. Reynolds got a dress for Miss Katie--got one for me too.

"My father was a soldier in the war. Last time I heard from him I know he was hauling salt
to the breastworks. Yes, I was here in the war. That was all right to me but I wished a many
a time I wasn't here.

"I went to school two or three days in a week for about a term. But I didn't learn to read
much. Had to hire out and help raise my brother and sister. I'm goin' to this here government
school now. I goes every afternoon.

"Since I got old I can think bout the old times. It comes to me. I didn't pay attention to
nothin' much when I was young.

"Oh Lord, I don't know what's goin' to become of us old folks. Wasn't for the Welfare, I don't
know what I'd do.

"I was sixteen when I married. I sure did marry young. I married young so I could see my chillun
grown. I never married but once and I stayed a married woman forty-nine years to the very day
my old man died. Lived with one man forty-nine years. I had my hand and heart full. I had a
home of my own. How many chillun? Me? I had nine of my own and I raised other folks' chillun.
Oh, I been over this world right smart--first one thing and then another. I know a lot of white
folks. They all been pretty good to me."

Interviewer: Mary D. Hudgins Person Interviewed: Mrs. Mary Jane (Mattie) Mooreman Home: with
son Age: 90

"Yes, ma'am. I've been in Hot Springs, been in Hot Springs 57 years. That's a long time. Lots
of changes have come--I've seen lots of changes here--changed from wooden sidewalks and little
wood buildings.

"Your name's Hudgins? I knew the Hudginses--knew Miss Nora well. What's that? Did I know Adeline?
Did I know Adeline! Do you mean to tell me she's still alive? Adeline! Why Miss Maud," (addressing
Mrs. Eisele, for whom she works--and who sat nearby to help in the interview) "Miss Maude,
I tell you Adeline's WHITE, she's white clean through!" (see interview with Adeline Blakeley,
who incidentally is as black as "the ace of spades"--in pigmentation.) "Miss Maude, you never
knew anybody like Adeline. She bossed those children and made them mind--just like they was
hers. She took good care of them." (Turning to the interviewer) "You know how the Hudgins always
was about their children. Adeline thought every one of 'em was made out of gold---made out
of pure GOLD.

"She made 'em mind. I remember once, she was down on Central Avenue with Ross and he did southing
or other that, wasn't nice. She walked over to the umbrella stand, you remember how they used
to have umbrellas for sale out in front of the stores. She grabbed an umbrella and she whipped
Ross with it--she didn't hurt him. Then she put it back in the stand and said to the man who
ran the store, 'If that umbrella's hurt, just charge it to Harve Hudgins.' That's the way Adeline
was. So she's still alive. Law how I'd like to see her. Bring me a picture of her. Oh Miss
Mary, I'd love to have it.

"Me? I was born on Green river near Hartford, Kentucky. Guess I was about a year and a half,
from what they told me when my mistress married. Don't know how she ever met my master. She
was raised in a convent and his folks lived a long way from hers. But anyhow she did. She was
just 13 when she married. The man she married was named Charles Mooreman M-O-O-R-E-M-A-N. They
had a son called Charles Wycliff Mooreman. He was named for his mother's people. I got a son
I called Charles Wycliff too. He works at the Arlington. He's a waiter. They say he looks just
like me. Mr. Charles Wycliff Mooreman--back in Kentucky. I still gets letters from him.

"Miss Mary I guess I had a pretty easy time in slavery days. They was good to us. Besides I
was a house niggah." (Those who have been "house niggahs" never quibble at the word slave or
negro. A subtle social distinction brewed in the black race to separate house servants from
field hands as far as wealthy planters from "poor white trash.".) "Once I heard a man say of
my mother, 'You could put on a white boiled shirt and lie flat down on the floor in her kitchen
and not get dirty.'"

"Cook? No, ma'am!" (with dignity and indignation) "I never cooked until after I was married,
and I never washed, never washed so much as a rag. All I washed was the babies and maybe my
mistress's feet. I was a lady's maid. I'd wait on my mistress and I'd knit sox for all the
folks. When they would sleep it was our duty--us maids--to fan 'em with feathers made out of
turkey feathers--feather fans. Part of it was to keep 'em cool. Then they didn't have screens
like we have today. So part of it was to keep the flies off. I remember how we couldn't stomp
our feet to keep the flies from biting for fear of waking 'em up.

"No, Miss Mary, we didn't get such, good food. Nobody had all the kinds of things we have today.
We had mostly buttermilk and cornbread and fat meat. Cake? 'Deed we didn't. I remember once
they baked a cake and Mr. Charles Wycliff--he was just a little boy--he got in and took a whole
fistful out of the cake. When Miss found out about it, she give us all doses of salts--enough
to make us all throw up. She gave it to all the niggahs and the children--the white children.
And what did she find out? It was her own child who had done it.

"Yes ma'am we learned to read and write. Oh, Miss Maude now--I don't want to recite. I don't
want to." (But she did "Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star" and "The Playful Kitten"--the latter
all of 40 lines.) "I think, I think they both come out of McGuffey's second Reader. Yes ma'am
I remember's McGuffey's and the Blueback speller too.

"No, Miss Mary, there wasn't so much of the war that was fought around us. I remember that
old Master used to go out in the front yard and stand by a locust tree and put his ear against
it. He said that way he could hear the cannon down to Bowling Green. No, I didn't never hear
any shooting from the war myself.

"Yes ma'am, the Confederates used to come through lots. I remember how we used to go to the
spring for water for 'em. Then we'd stand with the buckets on our heads while they drank--drank
out of a big gourd. When the buckets was empty we'd go back to the spring for more water.

"Once the Yankees come by the place. It was at night. They went out to the quarters and they
tried to get 'em to rise up. Told 'em to come on in the big house and take what they wanted.
Told 'em to take anything they wanted to take, take Master's silver spoons and Miss' silk dress.
'If they don't like it, we'll shoot their brains out,' they said. Next morning they told Master.
He got scared and moved. At that time we was living at Cloverport.

"It was near the end of the war and we was already free, only we didn't know it. He moved on
up to Stephensport. That's on the Ohio too. He took me and a brother of mine and another black
boy. While we was there I remember he took me to a circus. I remember how the lady--she was
dressed in pink come walking down a wire--straight on down to the ground. She was carrying
a long pole. I won't never forget that.

"Not long afterwards I was married. We was all free then. My husband asked my master if he
could marry me. He told him 'You're a good man. You can come and live on my farm and work for
me, but you can't have Mattie.' So we moved off to his Master's farm.

"A little while after that his Master bought a big farm in Arkansas. He wanted to hire as many
people as he could. So we went with him. He started out well, but the first summer he died.
So everything had to be sold. A man what come down to bid on some of the farm tools and stock--come
to the auction, he told us to come on up to Woodruff county and work for him. We was there
7 years and he worked the farm and I took care of myself and my babies. Then he went off and
left me.

"I went in to Cotton Plant and started working there. Finally he wrote me and tried to get
me to say we hadn't never been married. Said he wanted to marry another woman. The white folks
I worked for wouldn't let me. I'd been married right and they wouldn't let me disgrace myself
by writing such a letter.

"Finally I came on to Hot Springs. For a while I cooked and washed. Then I started working
for folks, regular. For 9 years, tho, I mostly washed and ironed.

"I came to Hot Springs on the 7th of February--I think it was 57 years ago. You remember Miss
Maud--it was just before that big hail storm. You was here, don't you remember--that hail storm
that took all the windows out of all the houses, tore off roofs and swept dishes and table-cloths
right off the tables. Can't nobody forget that who's seen it.

"Miss Mary, do you know Miss Julia Huggins? I worked for her a long time. Worked for her before
she went away and after she came back. Between times I cooked for Mrs. Button (Burton--but
called Button by everyone) Housley. When Miss Julia come back she marches right down to Mrs.
Housley's and tells me she wants me to work for her again. 'Can't get her now,' says Mrs. Housley,
'Mattie's done found out she's black.' But anyhow I went to see her, and I went back to work
for her, pretty foxy Miss Julia was.

"I been working for Mrs. Eisele pretty near twenty five years. Saw her children grow up and
the grand children. Lancing, he's my heart. Once when Mr. and Mrs. Eisele went to see Mrs.
Brown, Lancing's mother, they took me with them. All the way to Watertown, Wisconsin. There
wasn't any more niggas in the town and all the children thought I was somthing to look at.
They'd come to see me and they'd bring their friends with 'em. Once while we was there, a circus
come to town. The children wanted me to see it. Told me there was a negro boy in it. Guess
they thought it would be a treat to me to see another niggah. I told 'em, 'Law, don't you think
I see lots, lots more than I wants, everyday when I is at home?'

"It used to scare me. The folks would go off to a party or a show and leave me alone with the
baby. No, Miss Mary, I wasn't scared for myself. I thought somebody might come in and kidnap
that baby. No matter how late they was I'd sit on the top step of the stairs leading upstairs--just
outside the door where Lansing was asleep. No matter what time they come home they'd find me
there. 'Why don't you go on in your bedroom and lie down?' they'd ask me. 'No,' I'd tell 'em,
'somebody might come in, and they would have to get that baby over my dead body.'

"Jonnie, that's my daughter" (Mrs. D.G. Murphy, 338 Walnut Street, a large stucco house with
well cared for lawn) "she wants me to quit work. I told her, 'You put that over on Mrs. Murphy--you
made her quit work and took care of her. What happened to her? She died! You're not going to
make me old.'

"Twice she's got me to quit work. Once, she told me it was against the law. Told me there was
a law old folks couldn't work. I believed her and I quit. Then I come on down and I asked Mr.
Eisele" (an important business executive and prominent in civic affairs, [HW: aged 83]) "He
rared back and he said, 'I'd like to see anybody stop me from working.' So I come on back.

"Another time, it was when the old age pensions come in. They tried to stop me again. Told
me I had to take it. I asked Mr. Eisele if I could work just the same. 'No,' he says 'if you
take it, you'll have to quit work.' So I stamped my foot and I says, 'I won't take nobody's
pension.'

"The other day Jonnie called up here and she started to crying. Lots of folks write her notes
and say she's bad to let me work. Somebody told her that they had seen me going by to work
at 4 o'clock in the morning. It wasn't no such. I asked a man when I was on the way and it
was 25 minutes until 5. Besides, my clock had stopped and I couldn't tell what time it was.
Yes, Miss Mary, I does get here sort of early, but then I like it. I just sit in the kitchen
until the folks get up.

"You see that picture over there, it's Mr. Eisele when he was 17. I'd know that smiling face
anywhere. He's always good to me. When they go away to Florida I can go to the store and get
money whenever I need it. But it's always good to see them come back. Miss Maud says I'm sure
to go to Heaven, I'm such a good worker. No, Miss Mary, I'm not going to quit work. Not until
I get old."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Evelina Morgan
                    1317 W. Sixteenth Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: App. 81
[TR: Original first page moved to follow second page per
 HW: Insert this page before Par. 1, P. 3]

"I was born in Wedgeboro, North Carolina, on the plantation of--let me see what that man's
name was. He was an old lawyer. I done forgot that old white man's name. Old Tom Ash! Senator
Ash--that's his name. He was good to his slaves. He had so many niggers he didn't know them all.

"My father's name was Alphonso Dorgens and my mother's name was Lizzie Dorgens. Both of them
dead. I don't know what her name was before she married. My pa belonged to the Dorgens' and
he married my ma. That is how she come to be a Dorgen. Old Man Ash never did buy him. He just
visited my mother. They all was in the same neighborhood. Big plantations. Both of them had
masters that owned lots of land. I don't know how often he visited my mother after he married
her. He was over there all the time. They were right adjoining plantations.

"I was born in a frame house. I don't know nothin' about it no more than that. It was j'ined
to the kitchen. My mother had two rooms j'ined to the kitchen. She was the old mistress' cook.
She could come right out of the kitchen and go on in her room.

"My father worked on the farm. They fed the slaves meat and bread. That is all I remember--meat
and bread and potatoes. They made lots of potatoes. They gave 'em what they raised. You could
raise stuff for yourself if you wanted to.

"My mother took care of her children. We children was on the place there with her. She didn't
have nobody's children to take care of but us.

"I was six years old during of the War. My ma told me my age, but I forgot it; I never did
have it put down. The only way I gits a pension, I just tells 'em I was six years old during
of the War, and they figures out the age. Sorta like that. But I know I was six years old when
the Rebels and the Yankees was fighting.

"I seed the Yankees come through. I seed that. They come in the time old master was gone. He
run off--he run away. He didn't let 'em git him. I was a little child. They stayed there all
day breaking into things--breaking into the molasses and all like that. Old mistress stayed
upstairs hiding. The soldiers went down in the basement and throwed things around. Old master
was a senator; they wanted to git him. They sure did cuss him: 'The ----, ----, ----, old senator,'
they would say. He took his finest horses and all the gold and silver with him somewheres.
They couldn't git 'im. They was after senators and high-ups like that.

"The soldiers tickled me. They sung. The white people's yard was jus' full of them playing
'Yankee Doodle' and 'Hang Jeff Davis on a Sour Apple Tree.'

"All the white people gone! Funny how they run away like that. They had to save their selves.
I 'member they took one old boss man and hung him up in a tree across a drain of water, jus'
let his foot touch--and somebody cut him down after 'while. Those white folks had to run away.

Patrollers

"I used to hear them all talk about the patrollers. I used to hear my mother talking about
them. My ma said my master wouldn't let the patrollers come on his place. They could go on
anybody else's place but he never did let them come on his place. Some of the slaves were treated
very bad. But my ma said he didn't allow a patroller on the place and he didn't allow no other
white man to touch his niggers. He was a big white man--a senator. He didn't know all his Negroes
but he didn't allow nobody to impose on them. He didn't let no patroller and nobody else beat
up his niggers.

How Freedom Came

"I don't know how freedom came. I know the Yankees came through and they'd pat we little niggers
on the head and say, 'Nigger, you are just as free as I am.' And I would say, 'Yes'm.'

Right After Freedom

"Right after the War my mother and father moved off the place and went on another plantation
somewheres--I don't know where. They share cropped. I don't know how long. Old mistress didn't
want them to move at all. I never will forget that.

Present Occupation and Opinions

"I used to cook out all the time when I got grown. I couldn't tell you when I married. You
got enough junk down there now. So I ain't giving you no more. My husband's been dead about
seven years. I goes to the Methodist church on Ninth and Broadway. I ain't able to do no work
now. I gets a little pension, and the Lord takes care of me. I have a hard time sometime.

"I ain't bothered about these young folks. They is somethin' awful. It would be wonderful to
write a book from that. They ought to git a history of these young people. You could git a
wonderful book out of that.

"The colored folks have come a long way since freedom. And if the white folks didn't pin 'em
down they'd go further. Old Jeff Davis said when the niggers was turned loose, 'Dive up your
knives and forks with them.' But they didn't do it.

"Some niggers was sharp and got something. And they lost it just like they got it. Look at
Bush. I know two or three big niggers got a lot and ain't got nothin' left now. Well, I ain't
got no time for no more junk. You got enough down there. You take that and go on."

Interviewer's Comment

During the interview, a little "pickaninny" came in with his mother. His grandmother and a
forlorn little dog were also along. "Tell grandma what you want," his mother prompted. "Is
that your grandson?" I interrupted. "No," she said, "He ain't no kin to me, but he calls me
'ma' and acts as if I was his grandma." The little fellow hung back. He was just about twenty-two
months old, but large and mature for that age.

"Tell 'ma' what you want," his grandmother put in. Finally, he made up his mind and stood in
front of her and said, "Buh--er." His mother explained, "I've done made him some corn bread,
but he ain't got no butter to put on it and he wants you to give him some."

Sister Morgan sat silent awhile. Then she rose deliberately and went slowly to the ancient
ice-box, opened it and took out a tin of butter which she had evidently churned herself in
some manner and carefully cut out a small piece and wrapped it neatly and handed it to the
little one. After a few amenities, they passed out.

Even with her pitiful and meagre lot, the old lady evidently means to share her bare necessities
with others.

The manner of her calculation of her age is interesting. She was six years old when the War
was going on. She definitely remembers seeing Sherman's army and Wheeler's cavalry after she
was six. Since they were in her neighborhood in 1864, she is undoubtedly more than eighty.
Eighty-one is a fair estimate.

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: James Morgan
                    819 Rice Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 65

"During the slave time, the pateroles used to go from one plantation to the other hunting Negroes.
They would catch them at the door and throw hot ashes in their faces. You could go to another
plantation and steal or do anything you wanted if you could manage to get back to your old
master's place. But if you got caught away from your plantation, they would get you. Sometimes
a nigger didn't want to get caught and beat, so he would throw a shovel of hot ashes in the
pateroles' faces and beat it away.

"My daddy used to tell lots of stories about slavery times. He's been dead forty-three years
and my mother has been dead forty-one years--forty-one years this May. I was quite young and
lots of the things they told me, I remember, and some of them, I don't.

"I was born in 1873. That was eight years after the War ended. My father's name was Aaron and
my mother's name was Rosa. Both of them was in slavery.[TR: sentence lined out.] I got a brother
that was a baby in her lap when the Yankee soldiers got after a chicken. The chicken flew up
in her lap and they never got that one. The white folks lost it, but the Yankees didn't get
it. I have heard my mother tell all sorts of things. But they just come to me at times. The
soldiers would take chickens or anything they could get their hands on--those soldiers would.

"My mother married the first time in slavery. Her first husband was sold in slavery. That is
the onliest brother I'm got living now out of ten--that one that was settin' in her lap when
the soldiers come through. He's in Boydell, Arkansas now. It used to be called Morrell. It
is about one hundred twenty-one miles from here, because Dermott is one hundred nine and Boydell
is about twelve miles further on. It's in Nashville[HW:?] County. My brother was a great big
old baby in slavery times. He was my mother's child by her first husband. All the rest of them
is dead and he is the onliest one that is living.

"I was a section foreman for the Missouri Pacific for twenty-two years. I worked there altogether
for thirty-five years, but I was section foreman for twenty-two years. There's my card. Lots
of men stayed on the job till it wore them out. Lewis Holmes did that. It would take him two
hours to walk from here to his home--if he ever managed it at all.

"It's warm today and it will bring a lot of flies. Flies don't die in the winter. Lots of folks
think they do. They go up in cracks and little places like that under the weatherboard there--any
place where it is warm--and there they huddle up and stay till it gets warm. Then they come
out and get something to eat and go back again when it cools off. They live right on through
the winter in their hiding places.

"Both of my parents said they always did their work whatever the task might be. And my daddy
said he never got no whipping at all. You know they would put a task on you and if you didn't
do it, you would get a whipping. My daddy wouldn't stand to be whipped by a paterole, and he
didn't have to be whipped by nobody else, because he always did his work.

"He was one of the ones that the pateroles couldn't catch. When the pateroles would be trying
to break in some place where he was, and the other niggers would be standing 'round frightened
to death and wonderin' what to do, he would be gettin' up a shovelful of ashes. When the door
would be opened and they would be rushin' in, he would scatter the ashes in their faces and
rush out. If he couldn't find no ashes, he would always have a handful of pepper with him,
and he would throw that in their faces and beat it.

"He would fool dogs that my too. My daddy never did run away. He said he didn't have no need
to run away. They treated him all right. He did his work. He would get through with everything
and sometimes he would be home before six o'clock. My mother said that lots of times she would
pick cotton and give it to the others that couldn't keep up so that they wouldn't be punished.
She had a brother they used to whip all the time because he didn't keep up.

"My father told me that his old master told him he was free. He stayed with his master till
he retired and sold the place. He worked on shares with him. His old master sold the place
and went to Monticello and died. He stayed with him about fifteen or sixteen years after he
was freed, stayed on that place till the Government donated him one hundred sixty acres and
charged him only a dollar and sixty cents for it. He built a house on it and cleared it up.
That's what my daddy did. Some folks don't believe me when I tell 'em the Government gave him
a hundred and sixty acres of land and charged him only a dollar and sixty cents for it--a penny
a acre.

"I am retired now. Been retired since 1938. The Government took over the railroad pension and
it pays me now. That is under the Security Act. Each and every man on the railroad pays in
to the Government.

"I have been married right around thirty-nine years.

"I was born in Chicot County, Arkansas.[TR: sentence lined out.] My father was born in Georgia
and brought here by his master. He come here in a old covered ox wagon. I don't know how they
happened to decide to come here. My mother was born in South Carolina. She met my father here
in Arkansas. They sold her husband and she was brought here. After peace was declared she met
my daddy. Her first husband was sold in South Carolina and she never did know that became of
him. They put him up on the block and sold him and she never did know which way he went. He
left her with two boys right then. She had a sister that stayed in South Carolina. Somebody
bought her there and kept her and somebody bought my mother and brought her here. My father's
master was named McDermott. My mother's last master was named Belcher or something like that.

"I don't belong to any church. I have always lived decent and kept out of trouble."

Interviewer's Comment

When Morgan said "there is my record", he showed me a pass for the year 1938-39 for himself
and his wife between all stations on the Missouri Pacific lines signed by L.W. Baldwin, Chief
Executive Officer.

He is a good man even if he is not a Christian as to church membership.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person Interviewed: Olivia Morgan
                    Hazen, Ark.
Age: 62

"I am 62 years old. I was born in Lafayette County close to New Lewisville. I heard mama say
many a time she was named after her state--North Carolina. Her name was Carolina Alexandria.
They brought her a slave girl to this new country. She and papa must of met up toreckly after
freedom. She had some children and I'm one of my papa's oldest children.

"Papa come here long fore the war started. The old master in Atlanta, Georgia--Abe Smith--give
his son three boys and one girl. He emigrated to Arkansas.

"Mama said her first husband and the young master went off and he never come back as she knowed
of. Young master played with mama's second girl a whole heap. One day they was playing hiding
round. Just as she come running to the base from round the house, young master hit her on the
forehead with a rock. It killed her. Old master tried to school him but he worried so they
sent him off--thought it would do his health good to travel. I don't think they ever come back.

"After freedom mama married and went over to papa's master's. Papa stayed round there a long
time. They got news some way they was to get forty acres land and a mule to start out with
but they said they never got nothing.

"My papa said he knowed it to be a fact, the Ku Klux cut a colored woman's breast off. I don't
recollect why he said they got after her. The Jayhawkers was bad too. They all went wild; some
of em left men hanging up in trees. They needed a good master to protect em worse after the
war than they needed em before. They said they had a Yankee government then was reason of the
Ku Klux. They run the Jayhawkers out and made the Yankees go on home. Everybody had a hard
time. Bread was mighty scarce when I was a child. Times was hard. Men that had land had to
let it lay out. They had nothin' to feed the hands on, no money to pay, no seed, no stock to
work. The fences all went to rack and all the houses nearly down. When I was a child they was
havin' hard times.

"I'm a country woman. I farmed all my life. I been married two times; I married Holmes, then
Morgan. They dead. I washed, ironed, cooked, all at Mr. Jim Buchannan's sawmill close to Lewisville
two years and eight months; then I went back to farmin' up at Pine Bluff. My oldest sister
washed and ironed for Mrs. Buchannan till she moved from the sawmill to Texarkana. He lived
right at the sawmill ground.

"My papa voted a Republican ticket. I don't vote. My husbands have voted along. If the women
would let the men have the business I think times would be better. I don't believe in women
voting. The men ought to make the livings for the families, but the women doing too much. They
crowding the men out of work.

"Some folks is sorry in all colors. Seems like the young folks ain't got no use for quiet country
life. They buying too much. They say they have to buy everything. I ain't had no depression
yet. I been at work and we had crop failures but I made it through. Some folks good and some
ain't. Times is bout to run away with some of the folks. They all say times is better than
they been since 1928. I hope times is on the mend."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Tom Morgan, Madison, Arkansas Age: 71

"My mother was the mother of fourteen of us children. Their names was Sarah and Richard Morgan.

"My great-grandfather b'long to Bill Woods. They had b'long to the Morgans and when freedom
come they changed their names back. Some of them still owned by Morgans.

"Mother's owners was Auris and Lucella Harris. They had a boy named Harley Harris and a girl.
He had a small farm.

"Mother said her master wasn't bad, but my father said his owner was tough on him--tough on
all of them. They was all field hands. They had to git up and be doing. He said they fed by
torch morning and night and rested in the heat of the day two or three hours. Feed the oxen
and mules. In them days stock and folks all et three times a day. I does real well now to get
two meals a day, sometimes but one. They done some kind of work all the year 'round. He said
they had tasks. They better git the task done or they would get a beating.

"I haven't voted in so long a time. I voted Republican. I thought I did.

"I worked at the railroad till they put me off. They put me off on disability. Trying to git
my papers fixed up to work or get something one. Back on the railroad job. I farmed when I
was young." Mah mammy had lots uv chillun an she also mammied de white chillun, whut wuz lef'
mammyless. When ah wuz very small dey rented me out tuh some very po' white fokes. Dey wuzn
use tuh slaves so mah marster made him promise [HW: not] tuh beat me or knock me bout. Dey
promise dey wouldn. Dey cahried me home an ah clare dey wuz so mean tuh me till ah run off
an tried tuh fin' de way back tuh mah marster. Night caught me in de woods. Ah sho' wuz skeered.
Ah wuz skeered uv bears an panthers so ah crawled up in a ole bandoned crib an crouched down
gainst de loft. Ah went off tuh sleep but wuz woke by somethin scratchin on de wall below.
Ah stayed close as ah could tuh de wall an 'gin er prayin. Dat things scratched all night an
ah prayed all night. De nex' mawnin dese white fokes sent word tuh Marster dat ah had lef'
so Marster foun' me an took me home and let me stay dar too. Ah didn' work in de fiel' ah worked
in de house. We lived in uh log cabin. Evah Sunda mawnin Marster Louis would have all us slaves
tuh de house while he would sing an pray an read de Bible tuh us all.

De people dat owned de plantation near us had lots of slaves. Dey owned lots uv mah kin fokes.
Dey marster would beat dem at night when dey come fum de fiel' an lock em up. He'd whoop um
an sen' um tuh de fiel'. Dey couldn' visit no slaves an no slaves was 'lowed tuh visit em.
So mah cousin Sallie watched him hide de key so she moved dem a li'l further back so dat he
had tuh lean ovah tuh reach dem. Dat mawnin soon when he come tuh let em out she cracked him
in de haid wid de poker an made little Joe help put his haid in de fiuh place. Dat day in de
fiel' Little Joe made er song; "If yo don' bleave Aunt Sallie kilt Marse Jim de blood is on
huh under dress". He jes hollered hit. "Aunt Sallie kilt Marse Jim." Dey zamined Aunt Sallie's
under dress so dey put huh in jail till de baby come den dey tried huh an sentenced huh tuh
be hung an she wuz.

Our Marster use tuh tell us if we left de house de patarollers would catch us. One night de
patarollers run mah two brothers home, Joe an Henry.

When de ole haid died out dey chillun got de property. Yo see we slaves wuz de property. Den
we got separated. Some sent one way an some nother. Hit jes happent dat Marse Jim drawed me.

When de Wah broke out we could heah li'l things bein said. We couldn' make out. So we begin
tuh move erbout. Later we learnt we wuz runnin fum de wah. In runnin we run intuh a bunch uv
soldiers dat had got kilt. Oh dat wuz terrible. Aftuh mah brudders foun out dat dey wuz fightin
tuh free us dey stole hosses an run erway tuh keep fum bein set free. Aftuh we got tuh Morris
Creek hit wuz bloody an dar wuz one uv de hosses turnin roun an roun in de watuh wid his eyes
shot out. We nevah saw nuthin else uv Joe nor Henry nor de othuh horse from dat day tuh dis
one. But we went on an on till we come tuh a red house and dat red house represented free.
De white fokes wouldn go dat way cause dey hated tuh give us up. Dey turnt an went de othuh
way but hit wuz too late. De news come dat Mr. Lincoln had signed de papuhs dat made us all
free an dere wuz some 'joicing ah tells yo. Ah wuz a grown woman at dat time. Ole Moster Amos
brought us on as fur as Fo'dyce an turnt us a loose. Dat's wha' dey settled. Some uv de slaves
stayed wid em an some went tuh othuh places. Me an mah sistuh come tuh Camden an settled. Ah
mahried George Morris. We havn' seen our pa an ma since we wuz 'vided and since we wuz chillun.
When we got tuh Camden and settled down we went tuh work an sont back tuh de ole country aftuh
ma an pa. Enroute tuh dis country we come through Tennessee an ah membuh comin through Memphis
an Pine Bluff to Fordyce.

As we wuz comin we stopped at de Mississippi Rivuh. Ah wuz standin on de bank lookin at de
great roll uv watuh high in de air. Somebody snatched me back and de watuh took in de bank
wha ah wuz standin. Yo cound'n stand too close tuh de rivuh 'count uv de waves.

Der wuz a col' wintuh and at night we would gather roun a large camp fire an play sich games
as "Jack-in-de-bush cut him down" an "Ole gray mule-out ride him." Yaul know dem games ah know.
An in de summer times at night we played Julands. On our way tuh Arkansas we drove ox-teams,
jinnie teams, donkey teams, mule teams an horse teams. We sho had a good time.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Emma Morris, Forrest City, Arkansas Age: 71

"My parents was Jane and Sam McCaslin. They come from close to Atlanta, Georgia to Hernando,
Mississippi after slavery. Ma was heired and they bought pa before they left North Carolina.
They bought pa out of a nigger drove after he was grown. He raised tobacco and corn. Pa helped
farm and they raised hogs. He drove hogs to sell. He didn't say where they took the hogs, only
they would have to stay up all night driving the hogs, and they rode horses and walked too
and had shepherd dogs to keep them in a drove.

"Pa was a Böwick (B(our)ick) but I never heard him say nothing bout Master Bowick, so I don't
know his other name. He said they got in a tight [TR: missing word?] and had to sell some of
the slaves and he being young would bring more than one of the older men. He was real black.
Ma was lighter but not very light.

"McCaslin was a low heavy set man and he rented out hacks and horses in Atlanta and pa drove,
greased the harness and curried and sheared the horses. Master McCaslin brought them in town
and rented them out. He didn't have a livery stable. He just furnished conveyances. I heard
him tell about a good hitching post where he could more than apt rent out his rig and how he
always stopped and fed the horses when eating time come. He took a feed box all the time. Master
McCaslin would tell him to not drive too hard when he had to make long drives. He never would
let him take a whoop.

"He had some girls I heard him say. May and Alice was their names. He didn't say much about
the family. He took a basket of provision with him to eat Miss May and Miss Alice fixed up.
The basket was close wove and had a lid. The old man farmed. He drove too. He drove a hack.
Ma worked in the field. I heard her tell about the cockleburs. Well, she said they would stick
on your dress and stick your legs and you would have to pick them off and sometimes the beggar's-lice
would be thick on their clothes and they would pick them off.

"When they would clean out the fence corners (rail fence) they would leave every little wild
plum tree and leave a whole lot of briers so they would have wild plums and berries. They raised
cotton. Sometime during the War old Master McCaslin took all his slaves and stock way back
in the bottoms. The cane was big as ma's wrist she said. They put up some cabins to live in
and shelter the stock. Pa said some of em went in the army. He didn't want to go. They worked
a corn crop over in there.

"They left soon as they was freed. I don't know how they found it out. They walked to way over
in Alabama and pa made terms with a man, to come to Mississippi. Then they come in a wagon
and walked too. She had three little children. I was [HW: born] close to Montgomery, Alabama
in September but I don't know how long it was after the War. I was the first girl. There was
two more boys and three more girls after me. Ma had children born in three states.

"Ma died with the typhoid fever. Then two sisters and a brother died. Pa had it all summer
and he got well. Miss (Mrs.) Betty Chamlin took us children to a house and fed us away from
ma and the sick girls and boy. We was on her place. She had two families then. We got water
from a spring. It was a pretty spring under a big hill. We would wade where the spring run
off. She moved us out of that house.

"Miss Betty was a widow. She had several boys. They worked in the field all the time. We stayed
till the boys left and she sold her place. She went back to her folks. I never did see her
no more. We scattered out. Pa lived about wid us till he died. I got three girls living. I
got five children dead. I got one girl out here from town and one girl at Meridian and my oldest
girl in Memphis. I takes it time around wid em.

"I seen the Ku Klux but they never bothered us. I seen them in Alabama, I recken it was. I
was so small I jes' do remember seeing them. I was the onliest child born in Alabama. Pa made
one crop. I don't know how they got along the rest of the time there. We started share cropping
in Mississippi. Pa was always a good hand with stock. If they got sick they sent for him to
tell them what to do. He never owned no land, no home neither.

"I farmed all my life. I used to make a little money along during the year washing and ironing.
I don't get no help. I live with the girls. My girl in Memphis sends me a little change to
buy my snuff and little things I have to have. She cooks for a lawyer now. She did take care
of an lady. She died since I been here and she moved. I rather work in the field than do what
she done when that old lady lived. She was like a baby to tend to. She had to stay in that
house all the time.

"The young folks don't learn manners now like they used to. Times is better than I ever seen
em. Poor folks have a hard time any time. Some folks got a lot and some ain't got nothing everywhere."

Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
Person interviewed: Claiborne Moss
                    1812 Marshall Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
Age: 81

"I was born in Washington County, Georgia, on Archie Duggins' plantation, fifteen miles from
Sandersville, the county-seat, June 18, 1857.

"My mother's name was Ellen Moss. She was born in Georgia too, in Hancock County, near Sparta,
the county-seat. My father was Fluellen Moss. He, too, was born in Hancock County. Bill Moss
was his owner. Jesse Battle was my mother's owner before she married. My mother and father
had ten children, none of them living now but me, so far as I know. I was the fifth in line.
There were four older than I. The oldest was ten years older than I.

"Bill Moss' and Jesse Battle's plantations ware not far apart. I never heard my father say
how he first met my mother. I was only eight years old when he died. They were all right there
in the same neighborhood, and they would go visiting. Battle and Moss and Evans all had plantations
in the same neighborhood and they would go from one place to the other.

"When Bill Moss went to Texas, he gave my mother and father to Mrs. Beck. Mrs. Beck was Battle's
daughter and Mrs. Beck bought my father from Moss and that kept them together. He was that
good. Moss sold out and went to Texas and all his slaves went walking while he went on the
train. He had about a hundred of them. When he got there, he couldn't hear from them. He didn't
know where they was--they was walking and he had got on the train--so he killed hisself. When
they got there, just walking along, they found him dead.

"Moss' nephew, Whaley, got two parts of all he had. Another fellow--I can't call his name--got
one part. His sister, they sent her back five--three of my uncles and two of my aunties.

"Where I was raised, Duggins wasn't a mean man. His slaves didn't get out to work till after
sunup. His brother, who lived three miles out from us, made his folks get up before sunup.
But Duggins didn't do that. He seemed to think something of his folks. Every Saturday, he'd
give lard, flour, hog meat, syrup. That was all he had to give. That was extra. War was going
on and he couldn't get nothing else. On Wednesday night he'd give it to them again. Of course,
they would get corn-meal and other things from the kitchen. They didn't eat in the kitchen
or any place together. Everybody got what there was on the place and cooked it in his cabin.

"Before I was born, Beck sold my mother and father to Duggins. I don't know why he sold them.
They had an auction block in the town, but out in the country they didn't have no block. If
I had seen a nigger and wanted to buy him, I would just go up to the owner and do business
with him. That was the way it was with Beck and Duggins. Selling my mother and father was just
a private transaction between them.

Rations

"Twice a week, flour, syrup, meat, and lard were given to the slaves. you got other food from
the kitchen. Meat, vegetables, milk,--all the milk you wanted--bread.

A Mean Owner

"Beck, Moss, Battle, and Duggins, they was all good people. But Kenyon Morps, now talk about
a mean man, there was one. He lived on a hill a little off from the Duggins plantation. His
women never give birth to children in the house. He'd never let 'em quit work before the time.
He wanted them to work--work right up to the last minute. Children were all born in the field
and in fence corners. Then he had to let 'em stay in about a week. Last I seen him, he didn't
have nothin', and was ragged as a jay bird.

Houses

"Our house was a log house. It had a large room, and then it had another room as large as that
one or larger built on to it. Both of these rooms were for our use. My mother and father slept
in the log cabin and the kids slept back in the other room. My sister stayed with Joe Duggins.
Her missis was a school-teacher, and she loved sister. My master gave my sister to Joe Duggins.
Mrs. Duggins taught my sister, Fannie, to read and spell but not to write. If there was a slave
man that knowed how to write, they used to cut off his thumb so that he couldn't write.

"There was some white people wouldn't have the darkies eating butter; our white people let
us have butter, biscuits, and ham every day. They would put it up for me.

"I had more sense than any kid on the plantation. I would do anything they wanted done no matter
how hard it was. I walked five miles through the woods once on an errand. The old lady who
I went to said:

"'You walk way down here by yourself?'

"I told her, 'yes'.

"She said, 'Well, you ain't going back by yo'self because you're too little,' and she sent
her oldest son back with me. He was white.

"My boss was sick once, and he wanted to get his mail. The post office was five miles away.
He said to me:

"'Can't you get my mail if I let you ride on my horse?'

"I said, 'Yes sir.' I rode up to the platform on the horse. They run out and took me off the
horse and filled up the saddle bags. Then they put me back on and told me not to get off until
I reached my master. When I got back, everybody was standing out watching for me. When my boss
heard me coming, he jumped out the bed and ran out and took me off the horse and carried me
and the sacks and all back into the house.

Soldiers

"I saw all of Wheeler's cavalry. Sherman come through first. He came and stayed all night.
Thousands and thousands of soldiers passed through during the night. Cooper Cuck was with them.
He was a fellow that used to peddle around in all that country before the War. He went all
through the South and learned everything. Then he joined up with the Yankees. He come there.
Nobody seen him that night. He knowed everybody knowed him. He went and hid under something
somewhere. He was under the hill at daybreak, but nobody seen him. When the last of the soldiers
was going out in the morning, one fellow lagged behind and rounded a corner. Then he galloped
a little ways and motioned with his arms. Cooper Cuck come out from under the hill, and he
and Cooper Cuck both came back and stole everything that they could lay their hands on--all
the gold and silver that was in the house, and everything they could carry.

"Wheeler's cavalry was about three days behind Sherman. They caught up with Sherman, but it
would have been better if they hadn't, 'cause he whipped 'em and drove 'em back and went right
on. They didn't have much fighting in my country. They had a little scrimmage once--thirty-six
men was all they was in it. One of the Yankees got lost from his company. He come back and
inquired the way to Louisville. The old boss pointed the way with his left hand and while the
fellow was looking that way, he drug him off his horse and cut his throat and took his gun
off'n him and killed him.

"Sherman's men stayed one night and left. I mean, his officers stayed. We had to feed them.
They didn't pay nothing for what they was fed. The other men cooked and ate their own grub.
They took every horse and mule we had. I was sitting beside my old missis. She said:

"'Please don't let 'em take all our horses.'

"The fellows she was talking to never looked around. He just said: 'Every damn horse goes.'

"The Yankees took my Uncle Ben with them when they left. He didn't stay but a couple of days.
They got in a fight. They give Uncle Ben five horses, five sacks of silverware, and five saddles.
The goods was taken in the fight. Uncle Ben brought it back with him. The boss took all that
silver away from him. Uncle Ben didn't know what to do with it. The Yankees had taken all my
master's and he took Ben's. Ben give it to him. He come back 'cause he wanted to.

"When Wheeler's cavalry came through they didn't take nothing--nothing but what they et. I
heard a fellow say, 'Have you got anything to eat?'

"My mother said, 'I ain't got nothin' but some chitlins.'

"He said, 'Gimme some of those; I love chitlins.' "Mother gave 'em to me to carry to him. I
didn't get half way to him before the rest of the men grabbed me and took 'em away from me
and et 'em up. The man that asked for them didn't get a one.

Slave Money

"The slaves would sometimes have five or six dollars. Mostly, they would make charcoal and
sell it to get money.

Patrollers

"I seen patrollers. They come to our house. They didn't whip nobody. Our folks didn't care
nothin' about 'em. They come looking for keys and whiskey. They couldn't whip nobody on my
master's plantation. When they would come there, he would be sitting up with 'em. He would
sit there in his back door and look at 'em. Wouldn't let 'em hit nobody.

"Them colored women had more fun that enough--laughing at them patrollers. Fool 'em and then
laugh at 'em. Make out like they was trying to hide something and the patrollers would come
running up, grab 'em and try to see what it was. And the women would laugh and show they had
nothing. Couldn't do nothin' about it. Never whipped anybody 'round there. Couldn't whip nobody
on our place; couldn't whip nobody on Jessie Mills' place; couldn't whip nobody on Stephen
Mills' place; couldn't whip nobody on Betsy Geesley's place; couldn't whip nobody on Nancy
Mills' place; couldn't whip nobody on Potter Duggins' place. Potter Duggins was a cousin to
my master. Nobody run them peoples' plantations but theirselves.

Social Life

"When slaves wanted to, they would have dances. They would have dances from one plantation
to the other. The master didn't object. They had fiddles, banjo and quills. They made the quills
and blowed 'em to beat the band. Good music. They would make the quills out of reeds. Those
reeds would sound just like a piano. They didn't have no piano. They didn't serve nothing.
Nothing to eat and nothing to drink except them that brought whiskey. The white folks made
the whiskey, but the colored folks would get it.

"We had church twice a month. The Union Church was three miles away from us. My father and
I would go when they had a meeting. Bethlehem Church was five miles away. Everybody on the
plantation belonged to that church. Both the colored and the white belonged and went there.
They had the same pastor for Bethlehem, Union, and Dairy Ann. His name was Tom Adams. He was
a white man. Colored folks would go to Dairy Ann sometimes. They would go to Union too.

"Sometimes they would have meetings from house to house, the colored folks. The colored folks
had those house to house meetings any time they felt like it. The masters didn't care. They
didn't care how much they prayed.

"Sometimes they had corn shuckings. That was where they did the serving, and that was where
they had the big eatings. They'd lay out a big pile of corn. Everybody would get down and throw
the corn out as they shucked it. They would have a fellow there they would call the general.
He would walk from one person to another and from one end of the pile to the other and holler
and the boys would answer. His idea was to keep them working. If they didn't do something to
keep them working, they wouldn't get that corn shucked that night. Them people would be shucking
corn! There would be a prize to the one who got the most done or who would be the first to
get done. They would sing while they were shucking. They had one song they would sing when
they were getting close to the finish. Part of it went like this:

  'Red shirt, red shirt
  Nigger got a red shirt.'

After the shucking was over, they would have pies, beef, biscuits, corn bread, whiskey if you
wanted it. I believe that was the most they had. They didn't have any ice-cream. They didn't
use ice-cream much in those days. Didn't have no ice down there in the country. Not a bit of
ice there. If they had anything they wanted to save, they would let it down in the well with
a rope and keep it cool down there. They used to do that here until they stopped them from
having the wells.

"Ring plays too. Sometimes when they wanted to amuse themselves, they would play ring plays.
They all take hands and form a ring and there would be one in the center of the ring. Now he
is got to get out. He would come up and say, 'I am in this lady's garden, and I'll bet you
five dollars I can get out of here.' And d'reckly he would break somebody's hands apart and
get out.

How Freedom Came

"The old boss called 'em up to the house and told 'em, 'You are free as I am.' That was one
day in June. I went on in the house and got something to eat. My mother and father, he hired
them to stay and look after the crop. Next year, my mother and father went to Ben Hook's place
and farmed on shares. But my father died there about May. Then it wasn't nobody working but
me and my sister and mother.

What the Slaves Got

"The slaves never got nothing. Alexander Stephens, the Vice-President of the Confederacy, divided
his plantation up and gave it to his darkies when he died. I knew him and his brother too.
Alexander[HW: *] never did walk. He was deformed. Big headed rascal, but he had sense! His
brother was named Leonard[HW: *]. He was a lawyer. He really killed himself. He was one of
these die-hard Southerners. He did something and they arrested him. It made him so mad. He'd
bought him a horse. He got on that horse and fell off and broke his neck. That was right after
the War. They kept garrisons in all the counties right after the War.

"I was in Hancock County when I knew Vice-President Stephens. I don't know where he was born
but he had a plantation in Toliver [HW: Taliaferro] County. Most of the Stephenses was lawyers.
He was a lawyer too, and he would come to Sparta. That is where I was living then. There was
more politics and political doings in Sparta than there was in Crawfordville where he lived.
He lived between Montgomery and Richmond during the War, for the capital of the Confederacy
was at Montgomery one time and Richmond another.

"After the War, the Republicans nominated Alexander Stephens for governor. The Democrats knew
they couldn't beat him, so they turned 'round and nominated him too. He had a lot of sense.
He said, 'What we lost on the battle-field, we will get it back at the ballot box.' Seeb Reese,
United States Senator from Hancock County, said, 'If you let the nigger have four or five dollars
in his pocket he never will steal.'

Life Since Freedom

"After my father died, my mother stayed where she was till Christmas. Then she moved back to
the place she came from. We went to farming. My brother and my uncle went and farmed up in
Hancock County; so the next year we moved up there. We stayed there and farmed for a long while.
My mother married three years afterwards. We still farmed. After awhile, I got to be sixteen
years old and I wouldn't work with my stepfather, I told my mother to hire me out; if she didn't
I would be gone. She hired me out all right. But the old man used all my money. The next year
I made it plain to her that I wanted her to hire me out again but that nobody was to use a
dollar of my money. My mother could get as much of it as she wanted but he couldn't. The first
year I bought a buggy for them. The old man didn't want me to use it at all. I said, 'Well
then, he can't use my money no more.' But I didn't stop helping him and giving him things.
I would buy beef and give it to my mother. I knew they would all eat it. He asked me for some
wheat. I wouldn't steal it like he wanted me to but I asked the man I was working for for it.
He said, 'Take just as much as you want.' So I let him come up and get it. He would carry it
to the mill.

Ku Klux Klan

"The Ku Klux got after Uncle Will once. He was a brave man. He had a little mare that was a
race horse. Will rode right through the bunch before they ever realized that it was him. He
got on the other side of them. She was gone! They kept on after him. They went down to his
house one night. He wouldn't run for nothing. He shot two of them and they went away. Then
he was out of ammunition. People urged him to leave, for they knew he didn't have no more bullets;
but he wouldn't and they came back and killed him.

"They came down to Hancock County one night and the boys hid on both sides of the bridge. When
they got in the middle of the bridge, the boys commenced to fire on them from both sides, and
they jumped into the river. The darkies went on home when they got through shooting at them;
but there wasn't no more Ku Klux in Hancock County. The better thinking white folks got together
and stopped it.

"The Ku Klux kept the niggers scared. They cowed them down so that they wouldn't go to the
polls. I stood there one night when they were counting ballots. I belonged to the County Central
Committee. I went in and stood and looked. Our ballot was long; theirs was short. I stood and
seen Clait Turner calling their names from our ballots. I went out and got Rube Turner and
then we both went back. They couldn't call the votes that they had put down they had. Rube saw it.

"Then they said, 'Are you going to test this?'

"Rube said, 'Yes.' But he didn't because it would have cost too much money. Rube was chairman
of the committee.

"The Ku Klux did a whole lot to keep the niggers away from the polls in Washington and Baldwin
counties. They killed a many a nigger down there.

"They hanged a Ku Klux for killing his wife and he said he didn't mind being hung but he didn't
want a damn nigger to see him die.

"But they couldn't keep the niggers in Hancock County away from the polls. There was too many
of them.

Work in Little Rock

"I came to Little Rock, November 1, 1903. I came here with surveyors. They wanted to send me
to Miami but I wouldn't go. Then I went to the mortar box and made mortar. Then I went to the
school board. After that I ain't had no job. I was too old. I get a little help from the government.

Opinions of the Present

"I think that the young folks ought to make great men and women. But I don't see that they
are making that stride. Most of them is dropping below the mark. I think we ought to have some
powerful men and women but what I see they don't stand up like they should.

Own Family

"I have three daughters, no sons. These three daughters have twelve grandchildren."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Frozie Moss (dark mulatto), Brinkley,
Arkansas Age: 69

"When my grandma whut raised me got free she and grandpa come to Memphis and didn't stay there
long till they went to Crittenden County on a man's farm. My grandma was born in Alabama and
my grandpa in Virginia. I know he wasn't in the Nat Turner rebellion, for my mother had nine
children and all but me at Holly Grove, Mississippi. I was born up in Crittenden County. She
died. I remember very little about my father. I jes' remember father a little. He died too.
My grand parents lived at Holly Grove all during the war. They used to talk about how they
did. She said hardest time she ever lived through was at Memphis. Nothing to do, nothing to
eat and no places to stay. I don't know why they left and come on to Memphis. She said her
master's name was Pig'ge. He wasn't married. He and his sisters lived together. My grandmother
was a slave thirty years. She was a field hand. She said she would be right back in the field
when her baby was two weeks old. They didn't wont the slaves to die, they cost too much money,
but they give them mighty hard work to do sometimes. Grandma and grandpa was heap stronger
I am at my age. They didn't know how old they was. Her master told her how long he had her
when they left him and his father owned her before he died. I think they had a heap easier
time after they come to Arkansas from what she said. I can't answer yo questions because I'm
just tellin' you what I remembers and I was little when they used to talk so much.

"If the young generation would save anything for the time when they can't work I think they
would be all right. I don't hear about them saving. They buys too much. That their only trouble.
They don't know how to see ahead.

"I owns this house is all. I been sick a whole heap, spent a lot on my medicines and doctor
bill. I worked on the farm till after I come to Brinkley. We bought this place here and I cooks.
I cooked for Miss Molly Brinkkell, Mr. Adams and Mrs. Fowler. I washes and irons some when
I can get it. Washing and ironing 'bout gone out of fashion now. I don't get no moneys. I get
commodities from the Sociable Welfare. My son works and they don't give me no money."

Interviewer: Thomas Elmore Lucy Person interviewed: Mose Moss, Russellville, Arkansas Age: 65

"Mose Moss is my name, suh, and I was born in 1875 in Yell County. My father was born in old
Virginny in 1831 and died in Yell County, Arkansas, eight miles from Dardanelle, in 1916. Yes
suh, I've lived in Pope County a good many years. I recollects some things pretty well and
some not so good.

"Yes suh, my father used to talk a heap about the Ku Klux Klan, and a lot of the Negroes were
afraid of em and would run when they heard they was comin' around.

"My father's name was Henry Moss. He run away from the plantation in Virginia before the War
had been goin' on very long, and he j'ined the army in Tennessee--yes suh, the Confedrit army.
Ho suh, his name was never found on the records, so didn't never draw no pension.

"After he was freed he always voted the Republican ticket till he died.

"After the War he served as Justice of the Peace in his township in Yell County. Yes suh, that
was the time they called the Re-con-struc-tion.

"I vote the Republican ticket, but sometimes I don't vote at the reg'lar elections. No, I've
never had any trouble with my votin'.

"I works at first one thing and another but ain't doin' much now. Work is hard to get. Used
to work mostly at the mines. Not able to do much of late years.

"Oh, yes, I remember some of the old songs they used to sing when my parents was living: 'Old-Time
Religion' was one of em, and 'Swing Low, Sweet Chariot' was another one we liked to sing."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
Person interviewed: S.O. Mullins, Clarendon, Arkansas
                    Janitor for Masonic Hall
                    He wears a Masonic ring
Age: 80

"My master was B.F. Wallace--Benjamin Franklin Wallace and Katie Wallace. They had no children
to my recollection.

"I was born at Brittville, Alabama. My parents' names was George W. Mullins and Millie. They
had, to my recollection, one girl and three boys. Mr. Wallace moved to Arkansas before the
Civil War. They moved to Phillips County. My mother and father both farm hands and when my
grandmother was no longer able to do the cookin' my mother took her place. I was rally too
little to recollect but they always praised Wallace. They said he never whipped one of his
slaves in his life. His slaves was about free before freedom was declared. They said he was
a good man. Well when freedom was declared all the white folks knowed it first. He come down
to the cabins and told us. He said you can stay and finish the crops. I will feed and clothe
you and give you men $10 and you women $5 apiece Christmas. That was more money then than it
is now. We all stayed on and worked on shares the next year. We stayed around Poplar Grove
till he died. When I was nineteen I got a job, porter on the railroad. I brought my mother
to Clarendon to live with me. I was in the railroad service at least fifteen years. I was on
the passenger train. Then I went to a sawmill here and then I farmed, I been doing every little
thing I find to do since I been old. All I owns is a little house and six lots in the new addition.
I live with my wife. She is my second wife. Cause I am old they wouldn't let me work on the
levy. If I been young I could have got work. My age knocks me out of 'bout all the jobs. Some
of it I could do. I sure don't get no old age pension. I gets $4 every two months janitor of
the Masonic Hall.

"I have a garden. No place for hog nor cow.

"My boys in Chicago. They need 'bout all they can get. They don't help.

"The present conditions seem good. They can get cotton to pick and two sawmills run in the
winter (100 men each) where folks can get work if they hire them. The stay (stave) mill is
shut down and so is the button factory. That cuts out a lot of work here. The present generation
is beyond me. Seems like they are gone hog wild."

Interviewer's Note

The next afternoon he met me and told me the following story:----

"One night the servants quarters was overflowin' wid Yankee soldiers. I was scared nearly to
death. My mother left me and my little brother cause she didn't wanter sleep in the house where
the soldiers was. We slept on the floor and they used our beds. They left next mornin'. They
camped in our yard under the trees. Next morning they was ridin' out when old mistress saw
'em. She said they'd get it pretty soon. When they crossed the creek--Big Creek--half mile
from our cabins I heard the guns turn in on 'em. The neighbors all fell out wid my master.
They say he orter go fight too. He was sick all time. Course he wasn't sick. They come and
took off 25 mules and all the chickens and he never got up. They took two fine carriage horses
weighed 2,000 pounds apiece I speck. One named Lee and one Stone Wall. He never went out there.
He claimed he was sick all time. One of the carriage horses was a fine big white horse and
had a bay match. Folks didn't like him--said he was a coward. When I went over cross the creek
after the fightin' was over, men just lay like dis[A] piled on top each other." [A:  He used
his fingers to show me how the soldiers were crossed.]

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Alex Murdock, Edmondson, Arkansas Age: 65

"My owner or least my folks was owned by Dr. [HW: 'Murder'] (Murdock). He had a big farm. He
was a widower. He had no children as ever I knowed of. Dr. 'Murder' raised my father's mother.
He bought her at Tupelo, Mississippi. He raised mother too. She was bright color. I'm sure
they stayed on after freedom 'cause I stayed there till we come to Arkansas. Father was a teamster.
He followed that till he died. He owned a dray and died at Brinkley. He was well-known and
honorable.

"I worked in the oil mill at Brinkley-American Oil Company.

"Mother was learned durin' slavery but I couldn't say who done it. She taught school 'round
Buena Vista and Okolona, Mississippi. She learned me. I was born 1874--November 25, 1874. I
heard her say she worked in the field one year. They give her some land and ploughed it so
she could have a patch. It was all she could work. I don't know how much. It was her patch.
Our depot was Prairie Station, Mississippi. My parents was Monroe [HW: 'Murder'] Murdock[TR:
lined out] and Lucy Ann Murdock[TR: lined out] [HW: Murder]. It is spelled M-u-r-d-o-c-k.

"I farmed all my whole life. Oil milling was the surest, quickest living but I likes farmin'
all right.

"I never contacted the Ku Kluxes. They was 'bout gone when I come on.

"I voted off an' on. This is the white folks' country and they going to run their gov'mint.
The thing balls us up is, some tells us one way and some more tells us a different way to do.
And we don't know the best way. That balls us up. Times is better than ever I seen them, for
the man that wants to work.

"I get $8 a month. I work all I can."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Bessie Myers, Brassfield, Arkansas Age:
50? didn't know

"My mother was named Jennie Bell. She was born in North Ca'lina (Carolina). She worked about
the house. She said there was others at the house working all the time with her.

"She said they daresn't to cross the fence on other folks' land or go off up the road 'lessen
you had a writing to show. One woman could write. She got a pass and this woman made some more.
She said couldn't find nothing to make passes on. It happened they never got caught up. That
woman didn't live very close by. She talked like she was free but was one time a slave her
own self.

"Mother said she would run hide every time the Yankee men come. She said she felt safer in
the dark. They took so many young women to wait on them and mother was afraid every time they
would take her.

"She said she had been at the end of a corn row at daylight ready to start chopping it over,
or pull fodder, or pull ears either. She said they thought to lie in bed late made you weak.
Said the early fresh air what made children strong.

"On wash days they all met at a lake and washed. They had good times then. They put the clothes
about on the bushes and briers and rail fences. Some one or two had to stay about to keep the
clothes from a stray hog or goat till they dried. And they would forage about in the woods.
It was cool and pleasant. They had to gather up the clothes in hamper baskets and bring them
up to iron. Mother said they didn't mind work much. They got used to it.

"Mother told about men carried money in sacks. When they bought a slave, they open up a sack
and pull out gold and silver.

"The way she talked she didn't mind slavery much. Papa lived till a few years ago but he never
would talk about slavery at all. His name was Willis Bell."

Interviewer: Miss Sallie C. Miller Person interviewed: Mary Myhand, Clarksville, Arkansas Age: 85

"My mammie died when I was a little girl She had three children and our white folks took us
in their house and raised us. Two of us had fever and would have died if they hadn't got us
a good doctor. The doctor they had first was a quack and we were getting worse until they called
the other doctor, then we commence to get well. I don't know how old I am. Our birthdays was
down in the mistress' Bible and when the old war come up, the house was burned and lost everything
but I know I am at least 83 or 84 years old. Our white folks was so good to us. They never
whipped us, and we eat what they eat and when they eat. I was born in White County, Tennessee
and moved to Missouri but the folks did not like it there so we come to Benton County, Arkansas.
One side of the road was Benton County and the other side was Washington County but we always
had to go to Bentonville, the county seat, to tend to business. I was a little tod of a girl
when the war come up. One day word come that the 'Feds' were coming through and kill all of
the old men and take all the boys with them, so master took my brother and a grandson of his
and started South. I was so scared. I followed them about a half mile before they found me
and I begged so hard they took me with them. We went to Texas and was there about one year
when the Feds gave the women on our place orders to leave their home. Said they owned it now.
They had just got to Texas where we was when the South surrendered and we all come back home.

"We stayed with our white folks for about twenty years after the war. They shore was good to
me. I worked for them in the house but never worked in the field. I came across the mountain
to Clarksville with a Methodist preacher and his family and married here. My husband worked
in a livery stable until he died, then I worked for the white folks until I fell and hurt my
knee and got too old. I draws my old age pension.

"I do not know about the young generation. I am old and crippled and don't go out none."

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Griffin Myrax
                    913 Missouri Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age 77?

"I don't know my age exactly. You know in them days people didn't take care of their ages like
they do now. I couldn't give you any trace of the war, but I do remember when the Ku Klux was
runnin' around.

"Oh Lord, so much of the time I heard my mother talk about the slavery. I was born in Oklahoma
and my grandfather was a full-blooded Crete Indian. He was very much of a man and lived to
be one hundred thirty years old. All Crete Indians named after some herb--that's what the name
Myrax means.

"I heard my mother say that in slavery times the man worked all day with weights on their feet
so when night come they take them off and their feet feel so light they could outran the Ku
Klux. Now I heard her tell that.

"My parents moved from Oklahoma to Texas and I went to school in Marshall, Texas. All my schoolin'
was in Texas--my people was tied up there. My last schoolin' was in Buchanan, Texas. The professor
told my mother she would have to take me out of school for awhile, I studied too hard. I treasured
my books. When other children was out playin' I was studyin'.

"There was some folks in that country that didn't get along so well. I remember there was a
blind woman that the folks sent something to eat by another colored woman. But she eat it up
and cooked a toadfrog for the old blind woman. That didn't occur on our place but in the neighborhood.
When the people found it out they whipped her sufficient.

"When my grandfather died he didn't have a decayed tooth in his head. They was worn off like
a horse's teeth but he had all of them.

"I always followed sawmill work and after I left that I followed railroading. I liked railroading.
I more or less kept that in my view.

"About this slavery--I couldn't hardly pass my sentiments on it. The world is so far gone,
it would be the hardest thing to put the bridle on some of the people that's runnin' wild now."

Name of Interviewer: Irene Robertson Subject: Ex-slaves--Dreams--Herbs: Cures and Remedies Story:--

This information given by: Tom Wylie Neal Place of Residence: Hazen, Arkansas--Near Green Grove
Occupation: Farmer--Feeds cattle in the winter for a man in Hazen. Age: 85 [TR: Information
moved from bottom of first page.]

His father and mother belonged to Tom Neal at Calhoun, Georgia. He remembers the big battle
at Atlanta Ga. He was eight years old. He saw the lights, [saw the bullets in the air at night]
and heard the boom, boom of guns and cannons. They passed along with loaded wagons and in uniforms.
The horses were beautiful, and he saw lots of fine saddles and bridles. His mistress' name
was Mrs. Tom Neal. She had the property and married Tom Neal. She had been married before and
her first husband died but her first husband's name can't be recalled. She had two children--girls--by
her first husband. Her second husband just married her to protect them all he could. He didn't
do anything unless the old mistress told him to do it and how to do it. Wylie Neal was raised
up with the old mistress' children. He was born a slave and lived to thirteen years. "The family
had some better to eat and lots more to wear, but they gave me plenty and never did mistreat
me. They had a peafowl. That was good luck, to keep some of them about on the place." They
had guineas, chickens and turkeys. They never had a farm bell. He never saw one till he came
to Arkansas. They blew a big "Conch shell" instead. Mistress had cows and she would pour milk
or pot-liquor out in a big pewter bowl on a stump and the children would come up there from
the cabins and eat [till the field hands had time to cook a meal.][HW:?] Wylie's mother was
a field hand. They drank out of tin cans and gourds. The master mated his hands. Some times
he would ask his young man or woman if they knew anybody they would like to marry that he was
going to buy more help and if they knew anybody he would buy them if he could. The way they
met folks they would get asked to corn shuckings and log rollings and Mrs. Neal always took
some of her colored people to church to attend to the stock, tie the horses and hitch up, maybe
feed and to nurse her little girls at church. The colored folks sat on the back seats over
in a corner together. If they didn't behave or talked out they got a whipping or didn't go
no more. "They kept the colored people scared to be bad."

The colored folks believed in hoodoo and witches. Heard them talking lots about witches. They
said if they found anybody was a witch they would kill them. Witches took on other forms and
went out to do meaness. They said sometimes some of them got through latch holes. They used
buttons and door knobs whittled out of wood, and door latches with strings.

People married early in "Them days"--when Mistress' oldest girl married she gave her Sumanthy,
Wylie's oldest sister when they come home [they would let her come.] They sent their children
to school some but the colored folks didn't go because it was "pay school." Every year they
had "pertracted meeting." Looked like a thousand people come and stayed two or three weeks
along in August, in tents. "We had a big time then and some times we'd see a colored girl we'd
ask the master to buy. They'd preach to the colored folks some days. Tell them the law. How
to behave and serve the Lord." When Wylie was twelve years old the "Yanks" came and tore up
the farm. "It was just like these cyclones that is [TR: illegible word] around here in Arkansas,
exactly like that."

His mistress left and he never saw her again. General [HW: John Bell] Hood was the [TR: illegible
word] he thinks, but he was given to Captain Condennens to wait on him. They went to Marietta,
Ga., and Kingston, Ga. "Rumors came about that we were free and everybody was drifting around.
The U.S. Government gave us food then like they do now and we hunted work. Everybody nearly
froze and starved. We wore old uniforms and slept anywhere we could find, an old house or piece
of a house. In 1865-1869--the Ku Klux was miserable on the colored folks. Lots of folks died
out of consumption in the spring and pneumonia all winter.

"There wasn't any doctors seeing after colored folks for they had no money and they used herbs--only
medicine they could get."

Only herbs he remembers he used is: chew black snake roots to settle sick stomach. Flux weed
tea for disordered stomach. People eat so much "messed up food" lot of them got sick.

Wylie Neal wandered about and finally came to Chattanooga. They got old uniforms and victuals
from the "Yanks" about a year.

Colonel Stocker come and got up a lot of hands and paid their way to Memphis on the train.
From there they were put on the Molly Hamilton boat and went to Linden, Arkansas, on the St.
Francis River. "He fared fine" there. In 1906[TR: ?] he came to Hazen and since then he has
owned small farms at Biscoe and forty acres near Hazen. It was joining the old Joe Perry place.
Dr. ---- got a mortgage on it and took it. Wylie Neal lives with his niece and she is old too
so they get relief and a pension.

"He don't believe in dreams but some dreams like when you dream of the dead there's sho' goner
be falling weather." He "don't dream much" he says.

He has a birthmark on his leg. It looks like a bunch of berries. He never heard what caused
it. It has always been there.

Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
Person interviewed: Sally Nealy
                    105 Mulberry Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
Age: 91

"Yes mam, I was a slave! I was sixteen years old when the war begun. I was born in Texas.

"My old master was John Hall and my young master was Marse Dick. Marse John went to war the
5th day of May in 1861 and he was killed in June. They wasn't nothin' left to bring home but
his right leg and his left arm. They knowed it was him cause his name was tattooed on his leg.

"He was a mean rascal. He brought us up from the plantation and pat us on the head and give
us a little whisky and say 'Your name is Sally or Mary or Mose' just like we was dogs.

"My old mistress, Miss Caroline, was a mean one too. She was the mother of eight children--five
girls and three boys. When she combed her hair down low on her neck she was all right but when
she come down with it done up on the top of her head--look out.

"It was my job to scrub the big cedar churns with brick dust and Irish potato and polish the
knives and forks the same way. Then every other day I had to mold twelve dozen candles and
sweep the yard with a dogwood bresh broom.

"She didn't give us no biscuits or sugar 'cept on Christmas. Jest shorts and molasses for our
coffee. When the Yankee soldiers come through old mistress run and hide in the cellar but the
Yankees went down in the collar too and took all the hams and honey and brandied peaches she had.

"They didn't have no doctors for the niggers then. Old mistress just give us some blue mass
and castor oil and they didn't give you nothin' to take the taste out your mouth either.

"Oh lord, I know 'bout them Ku Klux. They wore false faces and went around whippin' people.

"After the surrender I went to stay with Miss Fulton. She was good to me and I stayed with
her eleven years. She wanted to know how old I was so my father went to Miss Caroline and she
say I 'bout twenty now.

"Some white folks was good to their slaves. I know one man, Alec Yates, when he killed hogs
he give the niggers five of 'em. Course he took the best but that was all right.

"After freedom the Yankees come and took the colored folks away to the marshal's yard and kept
them till they got jobs for 'em. They went to the white folks houses and took things to feed
the niggers.

"I ain't been married but once. I thought I was in love but I wasn't. Love is a itchin' 'round
the heart you can't get at to scratch.

"I 'member one song they sung durin' the war

  'The Yankees are comin' through
  By fall sez I
  We'll all drink stone blind
  Johnny fill up the bowl.'"

(2)
  "In eighteen hundred and sixty-two
  Football (?) sez I;
  In eighteen hundred and sixty-two
  That's the year we put 'em through
  We'll all drink stone blind,
  Johnny, come fill up the bowl.
  Johnny, come fill up the bowl.
  Johnny, come fill up the bowl.
  Johnny, came fill up the bowl."

Interviewer's Comment

The word "football" doesn't sound right in this song, but I was unable to find it in print,
and Sally seemed to think it was the right word.

Sally is a very wicked old woman and swears like a sailor, but she has a remarkable memory.

She was "bred and born" in Rusk County, Texas and says she came to Pine Bluff when it was "just
a little pig."

Says she was sixteen when the Civil War began.

I have previously reported an interview with her.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Wylie Nealy [HW: Biscoe Arkansas?] Age: 85

I was born in 1852. I am 85 years old. I was born in Gordon County. The closest town was Calhoun,
South Carolina. My sister died in '59. That's the first dead, person I ever saw. One of my
sisters was give away and another one was sold before the Civil War started. Sister Mariah
was give to the young mistress, Miss Ella Conley. I didn't see her sold. I never seed nobody
sold but I heard 'em talking about it. I had five sisters and one brother. My father was a
free man always. He was a Choctaw Indian. Mother was part Cherokee Indian. My mother's mistress
was Mrs. Martha Christian. He died and she married Tom Nealy, the one they call me fur, Wylie
Nealy.

Liberty and Freedom was all I ever heard any colored folks say dey expected to get out of de
war, and mighty proud of dot. Nobody knowed they was goin to have a war till it was done broke
out and they was fightin about it. Didn't nobody want land, they jess wanted freedom. I remembers
when Lincoln was made the President both times and when he was killed. I recollects all that
like yesterday.

The army had been through and swept out everything. There wasn't a chicken or hog nowhere to
be had, took the stock and cattle and all the provisions. So de slaves jess had to scatter
out and leave right now. And after de army come through. I was goin back down to the old place
and some soldiers passed riding along and one said "Boy where you goin? Said nothing up there."
I says, "I knows it." Then he say "Come on here, walk along back there" and I followed him.
I was twelve years old. He was Captain McClendenny. Then when I got to the camp wid him he
say "You help around here." I got sick and they let me go back home then to Resacca, Georgia
and my mother died. When I went back they sent me to Chattanooga with Captain Story. I was
in a colored regiment nine months, I saw my father several times while I was at Chattanooga.
We was in Shermans army till it went past Atlanta. They burned up the city. Two of my masters
come out of the war alive and two dead. I was mustered out in August 1865. I stayed in camp
till my sisters found a cabin to move in. Everybody got rations issued out. It was a hard time.
I got hungry lots times. No plantations was divided and the masters didn't have no more than
the slaves had when the war was done. After the Yankees come in and ripped them up old missus
left and Mr. Tom Nealy was a Home Guard. He had a class of old men. Never went back or seen
any more of them. Everybody left and a heap of the colored folks went where rations could be
issued to them and some followed on in the armies. After I was mustered out I stayed around
the camps and went to my sister's cabin till we left there. Made anything we could pick up.
Men come in there getting people to go work for them. Some folks went to Chicago. A heap of
the slaves went to the northern cities. Colonel Stocker, a officer in the Yankee army, got
us to come to a farm in Arkansas. We wanted to stay together is why we all went on the farm.
May 1866, when we come to Arkansas is the first farmin I had seen done since I left Tom Nealy's
place. Colonel Stocker is mighty well known in St. Francis County. He brought lots of families,
brought me and my brother, my two brothers and a nephew. We come on the train. It took four
or five days. When we got to Memphis we come to Linden on a boat "Molly Hamilton" they called
it. I heard it was sunk at Madison long time after that. Colonel Stocker promised to pay $6
a month and feed us. When Christmas come he said all I was due was $12.45. We made a good crop.
That wasn't it. Been there since May. Had to stay till got all the train and boat fare paid.
There wasn't no difference in that and slavery 'cept they couldn't sell us.

I heard a heap about the Ku Klux but I nebber seed them. Everybody was scared of them.

The first votin I ever heard of was in Grant's election. Both black and white voted. I voted
Republican for Grant. Lot of the southern soldiers was franchised and couldn't vote. Just the
private soldiers could vote at tall. I don't know why it was. I was a slave for thirteen years
from birth. Every slave could vote after freedom. Some colored folks held office. I knew several
magistrates and sheriffs. There was one at Helena (Arkansas) and one at Marianna. He was a
High Sheriff. I voted some after that but I never voted in the last Presidento election. I
heard 'em say it wasn't no use, this man would be elected anyhow. I sorter quit off long time ago.

In 1874 and 1875 I worked for halves and made nough to buy a farm in St. Francis County. It
cost $925. I bought it in 1887. Eighty acres to be cleared down in the bottoms. My family helped
and when my help got shallow, the children leaving me, I sold it for $2,000, in 1904. I was
married jess once and had eight children; five livin and three dead. Me and the old woman went
to Oklahoma. We went in January and come back to Biscoe (Arkansas) in September. It wasn't
no place for farming. I bought 40 acres from Mr. Aydelott and paid him $500. I sold it and
come to Mr. Joe Perry's place, paid $500 for 40 acres of timber land. We cleared it and I got
way in debt and lost it. Clear lost it! Ize been working anywhere I could make a little since
then. My wife died and I been doing little jobs and stays about with my children. The Welfare
gives me a little check and some supplies now and then.

No maam, I can't read much. I was not learnt. I could figure a little before my eyes got bad.
The white folks did send their children to pay schools but we colored children had to stay
around the house and about in the field to work. I never got no schoolin. I went with old missus
to camp meeting down in Georgia one time and got to go to white church sometimes. At the camp
meeting there was a big tent and all around it there was brush harbors and tents where people
stayed to attend the meetins. They had four meetins a day. Lots of folk got converted and shouted.
They had a lot of singings They had a lots to eat and a big time.

I don't think much about these young folks now. It seems lack everybody is having a hard time
to live among us colored folks. Some white folks has got a heap and fine cars to get about
in. I don't know what go in to become of 'em.

People did sing more than I hear them now but I never could sing. They sing a lot of foolish
songs and mostly religious songs.

I don't recollect of any slave uprising. I never heard of any. We didn't know they was going
to have a war till they was fighting. Yes maam, they heard Lincoln was going to set 'em free,
but they didn't know how he was going to do it. Everybody wanted freedom. Mr. Hammond (white)
ask me not long ago if I didn't think it best to bring us from Africa and be slaves than like
wild animals in Africa. He said we was taught about God and the Gospel over here if we was
slaves. I told him I thought dot freedom was de best anywhere.

