The granite rises up in sharp-pointed masses. Near Marseilles, marble is dug up from a submarine
quarry. There are also bituminous springs, and even springs of fresh water, that spout up from
the depths of the ocean; and in the Gulf of Spezia, a great spout or fountain of fresh water
is seen to rise like a liquid hill. Similar springs furnish the inhabitants of the town of
Aradus with their ordinary beverage.

On the southern coast of Cuba, to the southwest of the port of Batabano, in the bay of Xagua,
at two or three miles from the land, springs of fresh water gush up with such force in the
midst of the salt, that small boats cannot approach them with safety; the deeper you draw the
water, the fresher you find it. It has been observed, that in the neighbourhood of steep coasts,
the bottom of the sea also sinks down suddenly to a considerable depth; whilst near a low coast,
and one of gentle declivity, it is only gradually that the sea deepens. There are some places
in the sea where no bottom has yet been found. But we must not conclude that the sea is really
bottomless; an idea, which, if not absurd, is, at least, by no means conformable to the analogies
of natural science. The mountains of continents seem to correspond with what are called the
abysses of the sea; but now, the highest mountains do not rise to 20,000 feet. It is true that
they have wasted down and lessened by the action of the elements; it may, therefore, be reasonably
concluded, that the sea is not beyond 30,000 feet in depth; but it is impossible to find the
bottom even at one-third of this depth, with our little instruments. The greatest depth that
has been tried to be measured, is that found in the northern ocean by Lord Mulgrave; he heaved
a very heavy sounding lead, and gave out with it cable rope to the length of 4,680 feet, without
finding bottom.--Blake's Encyclopedia.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARACTER OF CROMWELL.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE "WHY AND BECAUSE" OF CHRISTMAS.

[We can vouch for the abridgement and collation of the following facts, connected with this
joyous season of old. Probably a few of the notes may have been discussed in the course of
our twenty-volume career; but to omit such notices on the present occasion, would be to drop
a link in the little chain:]

Why is the evening before Christmas-day celebrated?

Because Christmas-day, in the primitive Church, was always observed as the Sabbath-day, and,
like it, preceded by an eve, or vigil.--Brand.

It was once believed, that if we were to go into a cow-house, at twelve o'clock at night, all
the cattle would be found kneeling. Many also firmly believed that bees sung in their hives
on Christmas-eve, to welcome the approaching day.

Why is Christmas-day so called?

Because of its derivation from Christi Missa, the mass of Christ; and thence the Roman Catholic
Liturgy is termed their Missal, or Mass-book. About the year 500 the observation of this day
became general in the Catholic Church.

Why was the word Yule formerly used to signify Christmas?

Because of its derivation from the word ol, ale, which was much used in the festivities and
merry meetings of this period; and the I in Iol, icol. Cimb. as the ze and zi in zehol, zeol,
ziol, Sax. are premised only as intensives, to add a little to the signification, and make
it more emphatical. Ol, or Ale, did not only signify the liquor then made use of, but gave
denomination to the greatest festivals, as that of zehol, or Yule, at Midwinter; and as is
yet plainly to be discovered in that custom of the Whitsun ale at the other great festival.

Why are certain initials affixed to crucifixes?

Because of their signifying the titular tributes paid to the Saviour of the world. The initials
I.H.C., appended to other crosses, are said to imply, Jesus Humanitatis Consolator, Jesus the
Consoler of Mankind; and the I.H.S. imply Jesus Hominum Salvator, Jesus the Saviour of Men.
The first-mentioned initials are, however, found on the most ancient crosses.

Why is a certain song called a carol?

Because of its derivation from cantare, to sing, and rola, an interjection of joy.--Bourne.

Bishop Taylor observes that the "Gloria in excelsis," the well-known hymn sung by the angels
to the shepherds at our Lord's nativity, was the earliest Christmas carol. Bourne cites Durand
to prove that in the earlier ages of the churches, the bishops were accustomed, on Christmas-day,
to sing carols among their clergy. Fosbroke says--"It was usual, in ancient feasts, to single
out a person, and place him in the midst, to sing a song to God." And Mr. Davies Gilbert, late
President of the Royal Society, in a volume which he has edited on the subject, states, that
till lately, in the West of England, on Christmas-eve, about seven or eight o'clock in the
evening, festivities were commenced, and "the singing of carols begun, and continued late into
the night. On Christmas-day, these carols took the place of psalms in all the churches, especially
at afternoon service, the whole congregation joining; and at the end it was usual for the parish-clerk
to declare, in a loud voice, his wishes for a merry Christmas and a happy new year to all the
parishioners."

Mr. Hone observes, in his work on "Ancient Mysteries," that "the custom of singing carols at
Christmas prevails in Ireland to the present time. In Scotland, where no church fasts have
been kept since the days of John Knox, the custom is unknown. In Wales it is still preserved
to a greater extent, perhaps, than in England: at a former period, the Welsh had carols adapted
to most of the ecclesiastical festivals, and the four seasons of the year; but at this time
they are limited to that of Christmas. After the turn of midnight, on Christmas-eve, service
is performed in the churches, followed by singing carols to the harp. Whilst the Christmas
holidays continue, they are sung in like manner in the houses; and there are carols especially
adapted to be sung at the doors of the houses by visitors before they enter. Lffyr Carolan,
or the Book of Carols, contains sixty-six for Christmas, and five summer carols. Blodengerdd
Cymrii, or the Anthology of Wales, contains forty-eight Christmas carols, nine summer carols,
three May carols, one winter carol, one nightingale carol, and a carol to Cupid. On the Continent,
the custom of carolling at Christmas is almost universal. During the last days of Advent, Calabrian
minstrels enter Rome, and are to be seen in every street, saluting the shrines of the Virgin
mother with their wild music, under the traditional notion of charming her labour pains on
the approaching Christmas."

Why do the Christmas carols of the present day differ from the carols of earlier times?

Because the present carols were substituted, by those enemies of innocent mirth, the Puritans,
for the original carols, which were festal chansons for enlivening the merriment of the Christmas
celebrity; and not such religious songs as are current at this day, with the common people,
under the same title.

Dr. Johnson, in a note on Hamlet, tells us, that the pious chansons, a kind of Christmas carol,
containing some Scripture history, thrown into loose rhymes, were sung about the streets by
the common people, when they went at that season to beg alms.--Brand.

Why is laurel used with other evergreens to deck houses at Christmas?

Because of its use among the ancient Romans, as the emblem of peace, joy, and victory. In the
Christian sense, it may be applied to the victory gained over the powers of darkness by the
coming of Christ.--Bourne.

Why is the mistletoe so called?

Because its seeds are said to be dropped by the mistle-thrush, which feeds on its berries.

Why was the mistletoe held sacred by the Druids?

Because they had an extraordinary reverence for the number three, and not only the berries,
but the leaves of the mistletoe, grow in clusters of three united on one stalk. Its growing
upon the oak, their sacred tree, was doubtless another cause of its veneration.

We read of a celebrated oak at Norwood near London, which bore mistletoe, "which some people
cut for the gain of selling it to the apothecaries of London, leaving a branch of it to sprout
out; but they proved unfortunate after it, for one of them fell lame, and others lost an eye.
At length, in the year 1678, a certain man, notwithstanding he was warned against it, upon
the account of what the others had suffered, adventured to cut the tree down, and he soon after
broke his leg."--Camden.

Mr. Brand, however, thinks that mistletoe was never put up in churches but by mistake or ignorance
of the sextons: it being a heathenish and profane plant, and therefore assigned to the kitchen.
Mr. Brand made many diligent inquiries after the truth of this point. He learnt at Bath that
it never came into churches there. An old Sexton at Teddington told him that mistletoe was
once put up in the church there, but was by the clergyman immediately ordered to be taken away.

Why was the boar's head formerly a prime dish at Christmas?

Because fresh meats were then seldom eaten, and brawn was considered a great delicacy. Holinshed
says, that "in the year 1170, upon the day of the young prince's coronation, King Henry I.
served his sonne at table as server, bringing up the boar's head with trumpets before it, according
to the manner." For this ceremony there was a special carol. Dugdale also tells us, that "at
the inns of court, during Christmas, the usual dish at the first course at dinner was a large
bore's head, upon a silver platter, with minstralsaye." In one of the carols we read that the
boar's head is "the rarest dish in all the londe, and that it has been provided in honour of
the king of bliss."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE RIVER SCHELDT.

In all former times, and centuries before the labour of Napoleon had added so immensely to
its importance, the Scheldt had been the centre of the most important preparations for the
invasion of England, and the spot on which military genius always fixed from whence to prepare
a descent on this island. An immense expedition, rendered futile by the weakness and vacillation
of the French monarch, was assembled in it in the fourteenth century; and sixty thousand men
on the shore of the Scheldt awaited only the signal of Charles VI. to set sail for the shore
of Kent. The greatest naval victory ever gained by the English arms was that at Sluys, 1340,
when Philip of France lost 30,000 men and 230 ships of war in an engagement off the Flemish
coast with Edward III., a triumph greater, though less noticed in history, than either that
of Cressy or Poictiers. When the great Duke of Parma was commissioned by Philip II. of Spain
to take steps for the invasion of England, he assembled the forces of the Low Countries at
Antwerp; and the Spanish armada, had it proved successful, was to have wafted over that great
commander from the banks of the Scheldt to the opposite shore of Essex, at the head of the
veterans who had been trained in the Dutch war. In an evil hour, Charles II., bought by French
gold and seduced by French mistresses, entered into alliance with Louis XIV. for the coercion
of Holland; the Lillies and the Leopards, the navies of France and England, assembled together
at Spithead, and made sail for the French coast, while the armies of the Grande Monarque advanced
across the Rhine into the heart of the United Provinces; and the consequence was, such a prodigious
addition to the power of France, as it took all the blood and treasure expended in the war
of the Succession and all the victories of Marlborough, to reduce to a scale at all commensurate
with the independence of the other European states.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fleurus is a village in France, in the department of the Sombre and Meuse, where the Austrians
and the French fought a battle in the year 1794, in which the former were defeated. This victory
is ascribed to the information obtained in consequence of reconnoitering the army of the enemy
by the elevation of a balloon. The balloon employed on this occasion was called the Entreprenent;
and it was under the direction of M. Coutel, the captain of the aeronauts at Meudon, accompanied
by an adjutant and a general. He ascended twice in the same day, to the height of 220 fathoms,
for the purpose of observing the position and manoeuvres of the enemy. He continued each time
four hours in the air, and corresponded with General Jourdan, who commanded the French army,
by means of pre-concerted signals. The enterprise was discovered by the enemy; and a battery
opened its fire against the ascending aeronauts, but they soon gained an elevation which was
beyond the reach of their fire. This balloon was prepared under the direction of the Aerostatic
Institute, for the use of the army of the north; as were also another, called Céleste, for
the army of the Sombre and Meuse; and the Hercûle and Intrepide, for the army of the Rhine
and Moselle. Another, thirty feet in circumference, and weighing 160 lbs., was destined for
the army of Italy. A new machine, invented by M. Coutel, the director of the Aerostatic Institute,
was designed to aid the aeronauts in communicating intelligence, and denominated the Aerostatic
Telegraph.

P.T.W.

Muscular Strength.--It is asserted by travellers, that a Turkish porter will run along carrying
a weight of 600 lbs. Milo, of Crotona, is said to have lifted an ox, weighing upwards of 1,000
Ibs. Haller mentions that he saw an instance of a man, whose finger being caught in a chain
at the bottom of a mine, by keeping it forcibly bent, supported by that means the weight of
his whole body, 150 lbs., till he was drawn up to the surface, a height of 600 feet. Augustus
II., king of Poland, could with his fingers roll up a silver dish like a sheet of paper, and
twist the strongest horse-shoe asunder. An account is given in the Philosophical Transactions,
No. 310, of a lion who left the impression of his teeth upon a solid piece of iron. The most
prodigious power of the muscles is exhibited by fish:--A whale moves with a velocity through
the dense medium of water that would carry him, if he continued at the same rate, round the
world in little more than a fortnight; and a sword-fish has been known to strike his weapon
quite through the oak plank of a ship.

W.G.C.

Beauties of Chatsworth.--Marshal Tallard, who was entertained a few days at this place by the
Duke of Devonshire, on leaving, made this declaration--"When I return," said he, "into my own
country, and reckon up the days of my captivity, I shall leave out those which I spent at Chatsworth."
And Quin once said that he had nearly broken his neck in coming to it, and he should break
his heart on his return.

SWAINE.

Origin of the Discovery of Peru.--Balboa, the famous Spanish adventurer, in one of his expeditions,
met with a young cazique, who expressed his astonishment at the high value which was set upon
the gold, which the Spaniards were weighing and distributing. "Why do you quarrel," said he,
"about such a trifle? If you are so passionately fond of gold as to abandon your own country,
and to disturb the tranquillity of distant nations, for its sake, I will conduct you to a region
where the metal, which seems to be the chief object of your admiration and desire, is so common,
that the meanest utensils are formed of it." Transported with the intelligence, Balboa eagerly
inquired where this happy country lay, and how they might arrive at it. The cazique informed
them, that at the distance of six suns, or six days' journey to the south, they would discover
another ocean, near which this wealthy kingdom was situated; but if they intended to attack
it, they must assemble forces far superior in number and strength to those which now attended
them.--This was the first information which the Spaniards received concerning the great southern
continent, known afterwards by the name of Peru.

P.T.W.

Cholera Morbus.--Dr. James Johnson, in his interesting book entitled, Change of Air, or Pursuits
of Health, &c., says--"The cholera morbus ought to be denominated the high-police of scavengers.
It has cleared away more filth, in Europe and England, than all the municipal edicts that ever
issued from the constituted authorities. On this, and on some other accounts, it will save
more lives than it has destroyed."

Patriotism.--When the Chancellor d'Auguesseau, who constantly resisted the encroachments of
Louis XIV. on the liberties of the people, was sent for to Versailles by that monarch, he was
thus encouraged by his amiable wife: "Go," said she, "forget in the king's presence your wife
and your children,--sacrifice everything except your honour."

SWAINE.

His late Majesty, when Prince of Wales, was looking out of a window with Tom Sheridan, when
the "Dart," with four grey horses passed by. "Is not that a handsome coach, Tom?" observed
the Prince. "Yes, your highness," replied Tom, who was suffering under a headach from the champagne
of the previous night, and was rather in a sombre and meditative humour, "it certainly is;
but," continued he, pointing to a hearse going by at the same time, "that's the coach after all."

A Knowing Seaman.--A rough-hewn seaman being brought before a wise justice for some misdemeanour,
was by him ordered to be sent to prison, and was refractory after he heard his doom, insomuch
as he would not stir a foot from the place where he stood, saying it was better to stand where
he was than go to a worse place.--Bacon.

P.T.W.

Expensive Fishing.--In 1609, the Dutch were compelled to pay a tribute for fishing on our coast;
in 1683, they paid 30,000l. for liberty to fish. Welwood, in his answer to Grotius, says, "that
the Scots obliged the Dutch, by treaty, to keep eighty miles from shore in fishing, and to
pay a tribute at the port of Aberdeen, where a tower was erected for that and other purposes;
and the Dutch paid the tribute, even in the memory of our forefathers."

THOMAS GILL.