A sepoy of the Bengal native infantry was accused by one of his comrades of having stolen a
rupee and a pair of trousers. The sergeant-major before whom, in the first instance, the charge
was brought, was both unable and unwilling to give it credence. Besides the unusual circumstance
of a native soldier being guilty of so base an act, the accused sepoy had always been remarkably
conspicuous for his brave and upright conduct. His breast was literally covered with medals,
and he had long been accustomed to the voice of praise. Still, however, justice demanded that
the charge should not be dismissed without an impartial investigation. The whole affair was
brought to the notice of the commanding officer, who desired that the sepoy's residence should
be immediately and thoroughly examined. On opening his knapsack, to the utter astonishment
and regret of the whole regiment, the stolen property was discovered. None, however, looked
more thunderstruck than the sepoy himself. He clenched his teeth in bitter agony, but spoke
not a single word. The colonel told him, that though circumstances were fearfully against him,
he would not yet pronounce him guilty, as it was not impossible he might be the victim of some
malignant design. He therefore dismissed him from his presence until the result of further
inquiries should produce a full conviction of his guilt or innocence. In a few hours the sepoy
was observed to leave his little hut, and walk with hurried steps to a neighbouring field.
He was soon concealed from sight by a thick cluster of bamboos, beneath which he had often
sheltered himself from the noontide sun. Suspecting the purpose of his present visit to so
retired a spot, a comrade followed him, but was unfortunately too late to arrest the hand of
the determined suicide. The poor fellow lay stretched on the ground, with his head hanging
back, and the blood gushing from his open throat. He had effected his purpose with a sharp
knife, which he still grasped, as if with the intention of inflicting another wound. He was
carried to the hospital, and carefully attended, but the surgeon immediately pronounced his
recovery impossible. A pen and ink were brought to him, and he wrote with some difficulty on
a slip of paper, that he firmly hoped he had not failed in his attempt to destroy himself,
for life was of no value without honour. He stated, too, that though it might now be almost
useless to affirm his innocence, he hoped that a time might come when his memory should be
freed from its present stain. He lingered no less than fifteen days in this dreadful state,
and died, at last, apparently of mere starvation. It was my painful duty, as "officer of the
day," to visit the hospital very frequently, and he invariably made signs of a desire for food.
This it was, of course, impossible to give him, and any nourishment would merely have prolonged
his misery. Two days before he died, it was discovered that a Bengallee servant of low caste,
who had taken offence on some trivial occasion, had placed the stolen goods in the sepoy's
bundle, and then urged the owner to accuse him of the theft. The disclosure of this circumstance
appeared to give infinite satisfaction to the dying soldier.

London Weekly Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOUSE LAUNCHING.

The launching of the two brick houses in Garden-street was completely successful. They were
moved nearly ten feet, occupied at the time by their tenants, without having sustained any
injury. The preparations were the work of some time; the two buildings having been put upon
ways, or into a cradle, were easily screwed on a new foundation. The inventor of this simple
and cheap mode of moving tenanted brick buildings, is entitled to the thanks of the public.
In the course of time, it is likely that houses will be put up upon ways at brick or stone
quarries, and sold as ships are, to be delivered in any part of the city. --American Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the course of time we really do not know what is not to happen in America. Jonathan promises
to grow so big, and to do such wonders in a day or two, that no bounds can be placed to his
performances in the future tense. Everything will of course be on a scale of grandeur proportioned
to his country, which, as he observes in his Travels in England, is "bigger and more like a
world" than our boasted land; instead, therefore, of going about in confined, close carriages
as people do here, the Americans will rattle through the streets to their routs and parties
in their houses. One tenanted brick building will be driven up to the door of another. A further
improvement may here be suggested. Jonathan is fond of chairs with rockers, that is, chairs
with a cradle-bottom, on which he see-saws himself as he smokes his pipe and fuddles his sublime
faculties with liquor. Now by putting a house on rockers, this trouble and exertion of the
individual on a scale so small and unworthy of a great people would be spared, and every tenant
of a brick building would be rocked at the same time, and by one common piece of machinery.
The effect of a whole city nid-nid-nodding after dinner, will be extremely magnificent and
worthy of America. As for the feasibility of the thing, nothing can be more obvious. If houses
can be put upon cradles for launching, they can be put upon cradles for rocking; and if tenants
do not object to being conveyed from one part of the city to another in their mansions, they
will not surely take fright at an agreeable stationary see-saw in them.--London Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOOD NIGHT TO THE SEASON.

    Thus runs the world away.--HAMLET.

    Good-night to the Season! 'tis over!
      Gay dwellings no longer are gay;
    The courtier, the gambler, the lover,
      Are scatter'd, like swallows, away:
    There's nobody left to invite one,
      Except my good uncle and spouse;
    My mistress is bathing at Brighton,
      My patron is sailing at Cowes:
    For want of a better employment,
      Till Ponto and Don can get out,
    I'll cultivate rural enjoyment,
      And angle immensely for trout.

    Good-night to the Season!--the buildings
      Enough to make Inigo sick;
    The paintings, and plasterings, and gildings,
      Of stucco, and marble, and brick;
    The orders deliciously blended,
      From love of effect, into one;
    The club-houses only intended,
      The palaces only begun;
    The hell where the fiend, in his glory,
      Sits staring at putty and stones,
    And scrambles from story to story,
      To rattle at midnight his bones.

    Good-night to the Season!--the dances,
      The fillings of hot little rooms,
    The glancings of rapturous glances,
      The fancyings of fancy costumes;
    The pleasures which Fashion makes duties,
      The praisings of fiddles and flutes,
    The luxury of looking at beauties,
      The tedium of talking to mutes;
    The female diplomatists, planners
      Of matches for Laura and Jane,
    The ice of her Ladyship's manners,
      The ice of his Lordship's champagne.

    Good-night to the Season!--the rages
      Led off by the chiefs of the throng,
    The Lady Matilda's new pages,
      The Lady Eliza's new song;
    Miss Fennel's Macaw, which at Boodle's
      Is held to have something to say;
    Mrs. Splenetic's musical Poodles,
      Which bark "Batti, batti!" all day:
    The pony Sir Araby sported,
      As hot and as black as a coal,
    And the Lion his mother imported,
      In bearskins and grease, from the Pole.

    Good-night to the Season!--the Toso,
      So very majestic and tall;
    Miss Ayton, whose singing was so so,
      And Pasta, divinest of all;
    The labour in vain of the Ballet,
      So sadly deficient in stars;
    The foreigners thronging the Alley,
      Exhaling the breath of cigars;
    The "loge," where some heiress, how killing,
      Environ'd with Exquisites sits,
    The lovely one out of her drilling,
      The silly ones out of their wits.

    Good-night to the Season!--the splendour
      That beam'd in the Spanish Bazaar,
    Where I purchased--my heart was so tender--
      A card-case,--a pasteboard guitar,--
    A bottle of perfume,--a girdle,--
      A lithograph'd Riego full-grown,
    Whom Bigotry drew on a hurdle,
      That artists might draw him on stone,--
    A small panorama of Seville,--
      A trap for demolishing flies,--
    A caricature of the Devil,
      And a look from Miss Sheridan's eyes.

    Good-night to the Season!--the flowers
      Of the grand horticultural fête,
    When boudoirs were quitted for bowers,
      And the fashion was not to be late;
    When all who had money and leisure,
      Grow rural o'er ices and wines,
    All pleasantly toiling for pleasure,
      All hungrily pining for pines,
    And making of beautiful speeches,
      And marring of beautiful shows,
    And feeding on delicate peaches,
      And treading on delicate toes.

    Good night to the Season!--another
      Will come with its trifles and toys,
    And hurry away, like its brother,
      In sunshine, and odour, and noise.
    Will it come with a rose or a briar?
      Will it come with a blessing or curse?
    Will its bonnets be lower or higher?
      Will its morals be better or worse?
    Will it find me grown thinner or fatter,
      Or fonder of wrong or of right.
    Or married, or buried?--no matter,
      Good-night to the season, Good-night!

New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

TIGER TAMING.

A party of gentlemen from Bombay, one day visiting the stupendous cavern temple of Elephanta,
discovered a tiger's whelp in one of the obscure recesses of the edifice. Desirous of kidnapping
the cub, without encountering the fury of its dam, they took it up hastily and cautiously,
and retreated. Being left entirely at liberty, and extremely well fed, the tiger grew rapidly,
appeared tame and fondling as a dog, and in every respect entirely domesticated. At length,
when it had attained a vast size, and notwithstanding its apparent gentleness, began to inspire
terror by its tremendous powers of doing mischief, a piece of raw meat, dripping with blood,
fell in its way. It is to be observed, that, up to that moment, it had been studiously kept
from raw animal food. The instant, however, it had dipped its tongue in blood, something like
madness seemed to have seized upon the animal; a destructive principle, hitherto dormant, was
awakened--it darted fiercely, and with glaring eyes, upon its prey--tore it with fury to pieces--and,
growling and roaring in the most fearful manner, rushed off towards the jungles.--London Weekly
Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

RUNNING A MUCK.

The inhabitants of the Indian Archipelago, and particularly of the island of Java, are of a
very sullen and revengeful disposition. When they consider themselves grossly insulted, they
are observed to become suddenly thoughtful; they squat down upon the ground, and appear absorbed
in meditation. While in this position, they revolve in their breasts the most bloody and ferocious
projects of revenge, and, by a desperate effort, reconcile themselves with death. When their
terrible resolution is taken, their eyes appear to flash fire, their countenance assumes an
expression of preternatural fury; and springing suddenly on their feet, they unsheath their
daggers, plunge them into the heart of every one within their reach, and rushing out into the
streets, deal wounds and murder as they run, until the arrow or dagger of some bold individual
terminates their career. This is called running a muck.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR, AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE JEW'S HARP.

The memoirs of Madame de Genlis first made known the astonishing powers of a poor German soldier
on the Jew's harp. This musician was in the service of Frederick the Great, and finding himself
one night on duty under the windows of the King, playing the Jew's harp with so much skill,
that Frederick, who was a great amateur of music, thought he heard a distinct orchestra. Surprised
on learning that such an effect could be produced by a single man with two Jew's harps, he
ordered him into his presence; the soldier refused, alleging, that he could only be relieved
by his colonel; and that if he obeyed, the king would punish him the next day, for having failed
to do his duty. Being presented the following morning to Frederick, he was heard with admiration,
and received his discharge and fifty dollars. This artist, whose name Madame de Genlis does
not mention, is called Koch; he has not any knowledge of music, but owes his success entirely
to a natural taste. He has made his fortune by travelling about, and performing in public and
private, and is now living retired at Vienna, at the advanced age of more than eighty years.
He used two Jew's harps at once, in the same manner as the peasants of the Tyrol, and produced,
without doubt, the harmony of two notes struck at the same moment, which was considered by
the musically-curious as somewhat extraordinary, when the limited powers of the instrument
were remembered. It was Koch's custom to require that all the lights should be extinguished,
in order that the illusion produced by his playing might be increased.

It was reserved, however, for Mr. Eulenstein to acquire a musical reputation from the Jew's
harp. After ten years of close application and study, this young artist has attained a perfect
mastery over this untractable instrument. In giving some account of the Jew's harp, considered
as a medium for musical sounds, we shall only present the result of his discoveries. This little
instrument, taken singly, gives whatever grave sound you may wish to produce, as a third, a
fifth, or an octave. If the grave tonic is not heard in the bass Jew's harp, it must be attributed,
not to the defectiveness of the instrument, but to the player. In examining this result, you
cannot help remarking the order and unity established by nature in harmonical bodies, which
places music in the rank of exact sciences. The Jew's harp has three different tones; the bass
tones of the first octave bear some resemblance to those of the flute and clarionet; those
of the middle and high, to the vox humana of some organs; lastly, the harmonical sounds are
exactly like those of the harmonica. It is conceived, that this diversity of tones affords
already a great variety in the execution, which is always looked upon as being feeble and trifling,
on account of the smallness of the instrument. It was not thought possible to derive much pleasure
from any attempt which could be made to conquer the difficulties of so limited an instrument;
because, in the extent of these octaves, there were a number of spaces which could not be filled
up by the talent of the player; besides, the most simple modulation became impossible. Mr.
Eulenstein has remedied that inconvenience, by joining sixteen Jew's harps, which he tunes
by placing smaller or greater quantities of sealing-wax at the extremity of the tongue. Each
harp then sounds one of the notes of the gamut, diatonic or chromatic, and the performer can
fill all the intervals, and pass all the tones, by changing the harp. That these mutations
may not interrupt the measure, one harp must always be kept in advance, in the same manner
as a good reader advances the eye, not upon the word which he pronounces, but upon that which
follows.--Philosophy in Sport.

       *       *       *       *       *

FORM OF ANCIENT BOOKS, THEIR ILLUMINATIONS, &c.

The mode of compacting the sheets of their books remained the same among the Greeks during
a long course of time. The sheets were folded three or four together, and separately stitched:
these parcels were then connected nearly in the same mode as is at present practised. Books
were covered with linen, silk, or leather.

The page was sometimes undivided; sometimes it contained two, and in a few instances of very
ancient MSS., three columns. A peculiarity which attracts the eye in many Greek manuscripts,
consists in the occurrence of capitals on the margin, some way in advance of the line to which
they belong; and this capital sometimes happens to be the middle letter of a word. For when
a sentence finishes in the middle of a line, the initial of the next is not distinguished,
that honour being conferred upon the incipient letter of the next line; thus--

      THEGREEKSENTERING
      THEREGIONOFTHEMA
      CRONESFORMEDANAL
      LIANCEWITHTHEM.AS
    T HEPLEDGEOFTHEIR
      FAITHTHEBARBARIANS
      GAVEASPEAR.

The Greeks, especially in the earliest times, divided their compositions into verses, or such
short portions of sentences as we mark by a comma, each verse occupying a line; and the number
of these verses is often set down at the beginning or end of a book. The numbers of the verses
were sometimes placed in the margin.

Much intricacy and difficulty attends the subject of ancient punctuation; nor could any satisfactory
account of the rules and exceptions that have been gathered from existing MSS. be given, which
should subserve the intention of this work. Generally speaking, though with frequent exceptions,
the most ancient books have no separation of words, or punctuation of any kind; others have
a separation of words, but no punctuation; in some, every word is separated from the following
one by a point. In manuscripts of later date are found a regular punctuation, and marks of
accentuation. These circumstances enter into the estimate when the antiquity of a book is under
inquiry; but the rules to be observed in considering them cannot be otherwise than recondite
and intricate.

Few ancient books are altogether destitute of decorations; and many are splendidly adorned
with pictorial ornaments. These consist either of flowery initials, grotesque cyphers, portraits,
or even historical compositions. Sometimes diagrams, explanatory of the subjects mentioned
by the author, are placed on the margin. Books written for the use of royal persons, or dignified
ecclesiastics, usually contain the effigies of the proprietor, often attended by his family,
and by some allegorical or celestial minister; while the humble scribe, in monkish attire,
kneels and presents the book to his patron.

These illuminations, as they are called, almost always exhibit some costume of the times, or
some peculiarity, which serves to mark the age of the manuscript. Indeed a fund of antiquarian
information relative to the middle ages has been collected from this source. Many of these
pictured books exhibit a high degree of executive talent in the artist, yet labouring under
the restraints of a barbarous taste.--Taylor's History of the Transmission of Ancient Books
to Modern Times.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOUTHERN AFRICAN ELOQUENCE.

"It is clear that it is our best policy to march against the enemy before he advances. Let
not our towns be the seat of war; let not our houses be stained with bloodshed; let the blood
of the enemy be spilt at a distance from our wives and children. Yet some of you talk ignorantly;
your words are the words of children or of men confounded. I am left almost alone; my two brothers
have abandoned me; they have taken wives from another nation, and allow their wives to direct
them; their wives are their kings!" Then turning towards his younger brothers, he imprecated
a curse upon them if they should follow the example of their elder brethren. Again addressing
the people, he said, "you walk over my head while I sleep, but you now see that the wise Mocooas
respect me. Had they not been our friends, we must have fled ere now before the enemy." Turning
to Wleeloqua, the eighth speaker, he said, "I hear you, my father; I understand you, my father;
your words are true and good for the ear. It is good that we be instructed by the Macooas.
May evil overtake the disobedient! May they be broken in pieces! Be silent, ye women!" (addressing
them,) "ye who plague your husbands, who steal their goods, and give them to others, be silent;
and hinder not your husbands and children by your evil words. Be silent, ye kidney-eaters,[1]
(turning towards the old men,) ye who are fit for nothing but to prowl about whenever an ox
is killed. If our cattle are carried off, where will you get kidneys?"

    [1] The Bechnanas imagine that none who eat of the kidneys of
    the ox will have any offspring; on this account, no one, except
    the aged, will taste-them. Hence the contemptuous term of
    "kidney-eaters," synonymous with dotard.

Then addressing the warriors, he said, "there are many of you who do not deserve to eat out
of a broken pot; ye stubborn and stupid men! consider what you have heard, and obey without
murmuring. Hearken! I command you, ye chiefs of the Matclhapees, Matclhoroos, Myrees, Barolongs,
and Bamacootas, that ye proclaim through all your clans the proceedings of this day, and let
none be ignorant. And again I say, ye warriors, prepare for the day of battle; let your shields
be strong, your quivers full of arrows, and your battle-axes sharp as hunger." Turning a second
time towards the old men and women, he said, "prevent not the warrior from going forth to battle,
by your timid counsels. No! rouse up the warrior to glory, and he shall return to you with
honourable scars; fresh marks of valour shall cover his thigh;[2] and then we shall renew the
war-song and dance, and rehearse the story of our achievements."

    [2] The warriors receive a new scar on the thigh for every
    enemy they kill in battle.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHARACTER OF PITT.

By the late Right Hon. G. Canning.

The character of this illustrious statesman early passed its ordeal. Scarcely had he attained
the age at which reflection commences, than Europe with astonishment beheld him filling the
first place in the councils of his country, and manage the vast mass of its concerns with all
the vigour and steadiness of the most matured wisdom. Dignity, strength, discretion, these
were among the masterly qualities of his mind at its first dawn. He had been nurtured a statesman,
and his knowledge was of that kind which always lies ready for practical application. Not dealing
in the subtleties of abstract politics, but moving in the slow, steady procession of reason,
his conceptions were reflective, and his views correct. Habitually attentive to the concerns
of government, he spared no pains to acquaint himself with whatever was connected, however
minutely, with its prosperity. He was devoted to the state: its interests engrossed all his
study, and engaged all his care: it was the element alone in which he seemed to live and move.
He allowed himself but little recreation from his labours; his mind was always on its station,
and his activity was unremitted.

He did not hastily adopt a measure, nor hastily abandon it. The plan struck out by him for
the preservation of Europe was the result of prophetic wisdom and profound policy. But though
defeated in many respects by the selfish ambition and short-sighted imbecility of foreign powers,
whose rulers were too venal or too weak to follow the flight of that mind which would have
taught them to outwing the storm, the policy involved in it was still a secret operation on
the conduct of surrounding states. His plans were full of energy, and the principles which
inspired them looked beyond the consequences of the hour. In a period of change and convulsion,
the most perilous in the history of Great Britain, when sedition stalked abroad, and when the
emissaries of France and the abettors of her regicide factions formed a league powerful from
their number, and formidable by their talent, in that awful crisis the promptitude of his measures
saved his country.

He knew nothing of that timid and wavering cast of mind which dares not abide by its own decision.
He never suffered popular prejudice or party clamour to turn him aside from any measure which
his deliberate judgment had adopted; he had a proud reliance on himself, and it was justified.
Like the sturdy warrior leaning on his own battle, axe, conscious where his strength lay, he
did not readily look beyond it.

As a debater in the House of Commons, his speeches were logical and argumentative: if they
did not often abound in the graces of metaphor, or sparkle with the brilliancy of wit, they
were always animated, elegant, and classical. The strength of his oratory was intrinsic; it
presented the rich and abundant resource of a clear discernment and a correct taste. His speeches
are stampt with inimitable marks of originality. When replying to his opponents, his readiness
was not more conspicuous than his energy: he was always prompt and always dignified. He could
sometimes have recourse to the sportiveness of irony, but he did not often seek any other aid
than was to be derived from an arranged and extensive knowledge of his subject. This qualified
him fully to discuss the arguments of others, and forcibly to defend his own. Thus armed, it
was rarely in the power of his adversaries, mighty as they were, to beat him from the field.
His eloquence, occasionally rapid, electric, vehement, was always chaste, winning, and persuasive,
not awing into acquiescence, but arguing into conviction. His understanding was bold and comprehensive:
nothing seemed too remote for its reach, or too large for its grasp. Unallured by dissipation,
and unswayed by pleasure, he never sacrificed the national treasure to the one, or the national
interest to the other. To his unswerving integrity the most authentic of all testimony is to
be found in that unbounded public confidence which followed him throughout the whole of his
political career.

Absorbed as he was in the pursuits of public life, he did not neglect to prepare himself in
silence for that higher destination, which is at once the incentive and reward of human virtue.
His talents, superior and splendid as they were, never made him forgetful of that eternal wisdom
from which they emanated. The faith and fortitude of his last moments were affecting and exemplary.
In his forty-seventh year, and in the meridian of his fame, he died on the twenty-third of
January, one thousand eight hundred and six.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LECTURER

       *       *       *       *       *

VERTIGO, OR GIDDINESS.

Vertigo, or giddiness, though unattended with pain, is, in general, of a more dangerous nature
than the severest headach. Vertigo consists in a disturbance of the voluntary power, and in
some degree of sensation, especially of vision; and thus it shows itself to be an affection
of the brain itself; while mere pain in the head does not necessarily imply this, it being
for the most part an affection of the membranes only. In vertigo, objects that are fixed appear
to be in motion, or to turn round, as the name implies. The patient loses his balance, and
is inclined to fall down. It often is followed immediately by severe headach. Vertigo is apt
to recur, and thus often becomes frequent and habitual. After a time the mental powers become
impaired, and complete idiocy often follows; as was the case in the celebrated Dean Swift.
It frequently terminates in apoplexy or palsy, from the extension of disease in the brain.

Causes.--Vertigo is induced by whatever is capable of disturbing suddenly the circulation of
the brain, whether in the way of increase or diminution: thus the approach of syncope, whether
produced by loss of blood, or a feeling of nausea; blows on the head, occasioning a concussion
of the brain; stooping; swinging; whirling; or other unusual motions of the body, as in sailing,
are the ordinary exciting causes of the disease. Vertigo is exceedingly frequent at an advanced
period of life, and generally indicates the approach and formation of disease in the brain.
Accordingly, it is a frequent forerunner of apoplexy and palsy.

The immediate or proximate cause of giddiness, or vertigo, that is, the actual condition of
the brain at the moment, is probably some partial disturbance in the circulation there; which
all the occasional causes mentioned are obviously calculated to produce. It is more or less
dangerous, according to the cause inducing it, and the state of the brain itself, which may
be sound or otherwise. And as this cannot be certainly known, nor the extent of it when actually
present, the event is of course uncertain. At all times, your prognosis should be guarded;
because vertigo seldom occurs under favourable circumstances of age and general health; unless
when produced by so slight a cause as bloodletting, or a trifling blow upon the head. Whenever
vertigo recurs frequently, and at an advanced period of life; and more particularly when it
is accompanied with drowsiness; weakness of the voluntary muscles; impaired memory, or judgment;
or, in short, any other disturbance or imperfection in the state of the sensorial functions;
an unfavourable result is to be expected; because all these afford decisive evidence of a considerable
degree and extent of disease in the brain--Dr. Clutterbuck's Lectures on the Nervous System.

BATHING

In this season of the year, a few hints on the temperature of the body prior to cold immersion,
may not unaptly be furnished. It is commonly supposed, that if a person have made himself warm
with walking, or any other exercise, he must wait till he becomes cooled before he should plunge
into the cold water. Dr. Currie, however, has shown that this is an erroneous idea, and that
in the earlier stages of exercise, before profuse perspiration has dissipated the heat, and
fatigue debilitated the living power, nothing is more safe, according to his experience, than
the cold bath. This is so true, that the same author constantly directed infirm persons to
use such a degree of exercise before emersion, as might produce increased action of the vascular
system, with some increase of heat; and thus secure a force of re-action under the shock, which
otherwise might not always take place. The popular opinion, that it is safest to go perfectly
cool into the water, is founded on erroneous notions, and is sometimes productive of injurious
consequences. Thus, persons heated and beginning to perspire, often think it necessary to wait
on the edge of the bath until they are perfectly cooled.

       *       *       *       *       *

USEFUL DOMESTIC HINTS

       *       *       *       *       *

TAINTED MEAT

Meat tainted to an extreme degree may be speedily restored by washing it in cold water, and
afterwards in strong camomile tea; after which it may be sprinkled with salt, and used the
following day; or if steeped and well washed in beer, it will make pure and sweet soup even
after being fly-blown.

TO BREW THREE BARRELS OF PORTER.