Mr. Hammersley objected to an even bet; but said he would venture one to three she did not.
It was an age of bets.

"Done!" said the Major.

By this time Kate had risen, with Mr. Islip's assistance, and was now standing with her hand
upon the piebald's mane. She saw Rickards and Hammersley were whispering about her, and she
felt very uneasy: so she told Mr. Islip, timidly, she desired to explain her conduct to all
the gentlemen present, and avert false reports.

They were soon all about her, and she began, with the most engaging embarrassment, by making
excuses for her weakness. She said she had ridden all the way from home, fasting; that was
what had upset her. The gentlemen took the cue directly, and vowed eagerly and unanimously
it was enough to upset a porter.

"But, indeed," resumed Kate, blushing, "I did not come here to make a fuss, and be troublesome,
but to prevent mischief, and clear up the strangest misunderstanding between two worthy gentlemen,
that are, both of them, my good friends."

She paused, and there was a chilling silence: everybody felt she was getting on ticklish ground
now. She knew that well enough herself. But she had a good rudder to steer by, called Mother-Wit.

Says she, with inimitable coolness,--

"Mr. Gaunt is an old friend of mine, and a little too sensitive where I am concerned. Some
chatterbox has been and told him Mr. Neville should say I have changed horses with him; and
on that the gossips put their own construction. Mr. Gaunt hears all this, and applies insulting
terms to Mr. Neville. Nay, do not deny it, Mr. Gaunt, for I have it here in your own handwriting.

"As for Mr. Neville, he merely defends his honor, and is little to blame. But now I shall tell
the true story about these horses, and make you all ashamed of this sorry quarrel.

"Gentlemen, thus it is. A few days ago Mr. Gaunt bade me farewell, and started for foreign
parts. He had not been long gone, when word came from Bolton that Mr. Charlton was no more.
You know how sudden it was. Consider, Gentlemen: him dead, and his heir riding off to the Continent
in ignorance. So I thought, 'Oh, what shall I do?' Just then Mr. Neville visited me, and I
told him: on that he offered me his piebald horse to carry the news after Mr. Gaunt, because
my gray was too tired: it was the day we drew Yew-tree Brow, and crossed Harrowden Brook, you
know,"----

Griffith interrupted her.

"Stay a bit," said he: "this is news to me. You never told me he had lent you the piebald nag
to do me a good turn."

"Did I not?" said Kate, mighty innocently. "Well, but I tell you now. Ask him: he cannot deny
it. As for the rest, it was all done in a hurry: Mr. Neville had no horse now to ride home
with; he did me the justice to think I should be very ill pleased, were he to trudge home afoot
and suffer for his courtesy; so he borrowed my gray to keep him out of the mire; and, indeed,
the ways were fouler than usual, with the rains. Was there any ill in all this? HONI SOIT QUI
MAL Y PENSE! say I."

The gentlemen all sided loudly with her on this appeal,--except Neville, who held his tongue,
and smiled at her plausibility, and Griffith, who hung his head at her siding with Neville.

At last he spoke, and said, sorrowfully,--

"If you did exchange horses with him, of course I have only to ask his pardon--and go."

Catharine reflected a moment before she replied.

"Well," said she, "I did exchange, and I did not. Why quarrel about a word? Certainly he took
my horse, and I took his; but it was only for the nonce. Mr. Neville is foreign-bred, and an
example to us all: he knows his piebald is worth two of my gray, and so he was too fine a gentleman
to send me back my old hunter and ask for his young charger. He waited for me to do that; and
if anybody deserves to be shot, it must be Me. But, dear heart, I did not foresee all this
fuss; I said to myself, 'La, Mr. Neville will be sure to call on my father or me some day,
or else I shall be out on the piebald and meet him on the gray, and then we can each take our
own again.' Was I so far out in my reckoning? Is not that my Rosinante yonder? Here, Tom Leicester,
you put my side-saddle on that gray horse, and the man's saddle on the piebald there. And now,
Griffith Gaunt, it is your turn: you must withdraw your injurious terms, and end this superlative
folly."

Griffith hesitated.

"Come," said Kate, "consider: Mr. Neville is esteemed by all the county: you are the only gentleman
in it who has ever uttered a disparaging word against him. Are you sure you are more free from
passion and prejudice and wiser than all the county? Oblige me, and do what is right. Come,
Griffith Gaunt, let your reason unsay the barbarous words your passion hath uttered against
a worthy gentleman whom we all esteem."

Her habitual influence, and these last words, spoken with gentle and persuasive dignity, turned
the scale. Griffith turned to Neville, and said in a low voice that he began to fear he had
been hasty, and used harsher words than the occasion justified: he was going to stammer out
something more, but Neville interrupted him with a noble gesture.

"That is enough, Mr. Gaunt," said he. "I do not feel quite blameless in the matter, and have
no wish to mortify an honorable adversary unnecessarily."

"Very handsomely said," put in Major Rickards; "and now let me have a word. I say that both
gentlemen have conducted themselves like men--under fire; and that honor is satisfied, and
the misunderstanding at an end. As for my principal here, he has shown he can fight, and now
he has shown he can hear reason against himself, when the lips of beauty utter it. I approve
his conduct from first to last, and am ready to defend it in all companies, and in the field,
should it ever be impugned."

Kate colored with pleasure, and gave her hand eloquently to the Major. He bowed over it, and
kissed the tips of her fingers.

"Oh, Sir," she said, looking on him now as a friend, "I dreamed I saw Mr. Neville lying dead
upon the snow, with the blood trickling from his temple."

At this Neville's dark cheek glowed with pleasure. So! it was her anxiety on his account had
brought her here.

Griffith heard too, and sighed patiently.

Assured by Major Rickards that there neither could nor should be any more fighting, Kate made
her adieus, mounted her gray horse, and rode off, discreetly declining all attendance. She
beckoned Tom Leicester, however. But he pretended not to see the signal, and let her go alone.
His motive for lingering behind was characteristic, and will transpire shortly.

As soon as she was gone, Griffith Gaunt quietly reminded the surgeon that there was a bullet
in his arm all this time.

"Bless my soul!" said Mr. Islip, "I forgot that, I was so taken up with the lady."

Griffith's coat was now taken off, and the bullet searched for: it had entered the fleshy part
of his arm below the elbow, and, passing round the bone, projected just under the skin. The
surgeon made a slight incision, and then, pressing with his finger and thumb, out it rolled.
Griffith put it in his pocket.

Neville had remained out of civility, and now congratulated his late antagonist, and himself,
that it was no worse.

The last words that passed between the rivals, on this occasion, were worth recording, and
characteristic of the time.

Neville addressed Gaunt with elaborate courtesy, and to this effect:--

"I find myself in a difficulty, Sir. You did me the honor to invite me to Mr. Charlton's funeral,
and I accepted; but now I fear to intrude a guest, the sight of whom may be disagreeable to
you. And, on the other hand, my absence might be misconstrued as a mark of disrespect, or of
a petty hostility I am far from feeling. Be pleased, therefore, to dispose of me entirely in
this matter."

Griffith reflected.

"Sir," said he, "there is an old saying, 'Let every tub stand on its own bottom.' The deceased
wished you to follow him to the grave, and therefore I would on no account have you absent.
Besides, now I think of it, there will be less gossip about this unfortunate business, if our
neighbors see you under my roof, and treated with due consideration there, as you will be."

"I do not doubt that, Sir, from so manly an adversary; and I shall do myself the honor to come."

Such was Neville's reply. The rivals then saluted each other profoundly, and parted.

Hammersley and Rickards lingered behind their principals to settle their little bet about Kate's
affections: and, by the by, they were indiscreet enough to discuss this delicate matter within
a dozen yards of Tom Leicester: they forgot that "little pitchers have long ears."

       *       *       *       *       *

Catharine Peyton rode slowly home, and thought it all over as she went, and worried herself
finely. She was one that winced at notoriety; and she could not hope to escape it now. How
the gossips would talk about her! they would say the gentlemen had fought about her; and she
had parted them for love of one of them. And then the gentlemen themselves! The strict neutrality
she had endeavored to maintain on Scutchemsee Nob, in order to make peace, would it not keep
them both her suitors? She foresaw she should be pulled to pieces, and live in hot water, and
be "the talk of the county."

There were but two ways out: she must marry one of them, and petition the other not to shoot
him; or else she must take the veil, and so escape them both.

She preferred the latter alternative. She was more enthusiastic in religion than in any earthly
thing; and now the angry passions of men thrust her the same road that her own devout mind
had always drawn her.

As soon as she got home, she sent a message to Father Francis, who drove her conscience, and
begged him to come and advise her.

After that, she did the wisest thing, perhaps, she had done all day,--went to bed.

CHAPTER VII.

The sun was just setting when Catharine's maid came into her room and told her Father Francis
was below. She sent down to say she counted on his sleeping at Peyton Hall, and she would come
down to him in half an hour. She then ordered a refection to be prepared for him in her boudoir;
and made her toilet with all reasonable speed, not to keep him waiting. Her face beamed with
quiet complacency now, for the holy man's very presence in the house was a comfort to her.

Father Francis was a very stout, muscular man, with a ruddy countenance; he never wore gloves,
and you saw at once he was not a gentleman by birth. He had a fine voice: it was deep, mellow,
and, when he chose, sonorous. This, and his person, ample, but not obese, gave him great weight,
especially with his female pupils. If he was not quite so much reverenced by the men, yet he
was both respected and liked; in fact, he had qualities that make men welcome in every situation,--good
humor, good sense, and tact. A good son of his Church, and early trained to let no occasion
slip of advancing her interests.

I wish my readers could have seen the meeting between Catharine Peyton and this burly ecclesiastic.
She came into the drawing-room with that imperious air and carriage which had made her so unpopular
with her own sex; and at the bare sight of Father Francis, drooped and bent in a moment as
she walked; and her whole body indicated a submissiveness, graceful, but rather abject: it
was as if a young poplar should turn to a weeping willow in half a moment. Thus metamorphosed,
the Beauty of Cumberland glided up to Francis, and sank slowly on her knees before him, crossed
her hands on her bosom, lowered her lovely head, and awaited his benediction.

The father laid two big, coarse hands, with enormous fingers, on that thorough-bred head and
golden hair, and blessed her business-like.

    "The hand of less employment hath the daintier sense."--Shakspeare.

Father Francis blessed so many of these pretty creatures every week, that he had long outgrown
your fine, romantic way of blessing a body. (We manage these things better in the theatre.)
Then he lent her his hand to rise, and asked her in what she required his direction at present.

"In that which shall decide my whole life," said she.

Francis responded by a look of paternal interest.

"But first," murmured she, "let me confess to you, and obtain absolution, if I may. Ah, Father,
my sins have been many since last confession!"

"Be it so," said Father Francis, resignedly. "Confession is the best preface to Direction."
And he seated himself with a certain change of manner, an easy assumption of authority.

"Nay, Father," suggested the lady, "we shall be more private in my room."

"As you will, Mistress Catharine Peyton," said the priest, returning to his usual manner.

So then the fair penitent led her spiritual judge captive up another flight of stairs, and
into her little boudoir. A cheerful wood fire crackled and flamed up the chimney, and a cloth
had been laid on a side table: cold turkey and chine graced the board, and a huge glass magnum
of purple Burgundy glowed and shone in the rays of the cheery fire.

Father Francis felt cozy at the sight; and at once accepted Kate's invitation to take some
nourishment before entering on the labor of listening to the catalogue of her crimes. "I fasted
yesterday," he muttered; and the zeal with which he attacked the viands rendered the statement
highly credible.

He invited Kate to join him, but she declined.

He returned more than once to the succulent meats, and washed all down with a pint of the fine
old Burgundy, perfumed and purple. Meantime she of the laïty sat looking into the fire with
heavenly-minded eyes.

At last, with a gentle sigh of content, the ghostly father installed himself in an arm-chair
by the fire, and invited his penitent to begin.

She took a footstool and brought it to his side, so that, in confessing her blacker vices,
she might be able to whisper them in his very ear. She kneeled on her little footstool, put
her hands across her breast, and in this lowly attitude murmured softly after this fashion,
with a contrite voice:--

"I have to accuse myself of many vices. Alas! in one short fortnight I have accumulated the
wickedness of a life. I have committed the seven deadly sins. I have been guilty of Pride,
Wrath, Envy, Disobedience, Immodesty, Vanity, Concupiscence, Fibs,"----

"Gently, daughter," said the priest, quietly; "these terms are too general: give me instances.
Let us begin with Wrath: ah! we are all prone to that."

The fair penitent sighed, and said,--

"Especially me. Example: I was angry beyond reason with my maid, Ruth. (She does comb my hair
so uncouthly!) So, then, the other night, when I was in trouble, and most needed soothing by
being combed womanly, she gets thinking of Harry, that helps in the stable, and she tears away
at my hair. I started up and screamed out, 'Oh, you clumsy thing! go curry-comb my horse, and
send that oaf your head is running on to handle my hair.' And I told her my grandam would have
whipped her well for it, but nowadays mistresses were the only sufferers: we had lost the use
of our hands, we are grown so squeamish. And I stamped like a fury, and said, 'Get you gone
out of the room!' and 'I hated the sight of her!' And the poor girl went from me, crying, without
a word, being a better Christian than her mistress. Mea culpa! mea culpa!"

"Did you slap her?"

"Nay, Father, not so bad as that."

"Are you quite sure you did not slap her?" asked Francis, quietly.

