But the betting-lists are the attraction--these are the dice of the betting-man: a section
of one of the side-walls within the office is devoted to them. They consist of long strips
of paper--each race having its own slip--on which are stated the odds against the horses. Hasty
and anxious are the glances which the speculator casts at the betting-lists: he there sees
which are the favourites; whether those he has backed are advancing or retrograding; and he
endeavours to discover, by signs and testimonies, by all kinds of movements and dodges, the
knowing one's opinion. He will drop fishing words to other gazers, will try to overhear whispered
remarks, will sidle towards any jockey-legged or ecurial--costumed individual, and aim more
especially at getting into the good graces of the betting-office keeper, who, when his business
is slack, comes forth from behind the partition and from the duties of the pigeon-hole, to
stretch his legs and hold turf-converse. The betting-office keeper is the speculator's divinity.

The office itself is but the point where the ringing of the metal takes place, where the actual
business is more bindingly entered into; but on great, or, as they are technically termed,
grand days, there will occur--what will also apply, perhaps, occasionally to grand operas--very
heavy operations. Large numbers of the speculators will collect, forming themselves into knots
and groups on the pavement, and even in the roadway contiguous to the office. Here they appear
a motley congregation, a curious agglomeration of seediness. Seediness is the prominent feature
of the betting mass, as they are on such occasions collected--seediness of dress and of character.
Yet amongst the groups are some better-looking kine, some who seem to fatten, and who costume
themselves in fully-napped cloth, and boast of ostentatious pockets, and hats which advertise
the owner as knowing a thing or two. These may be touters to the office: some may be victims,
who have once won a stake. The latter now neglect their ordinary calling, and pass the whole
of their time in the purlieus of betting-shops. As for the touters--betting-offices are not
progressive without the aid of touters--they are gentlemen who have in their time worn many
kinds of character, who have always existed one way or another on the very outskirts of honesty,
till some fine morning a careless step brings them from that neutral ground into the domain
of the law, where they are laid hold of. They do not disdain their adopted calling; they are
not above assisting errand-boys to go in for large stakes; they tempt apothecaries' apprentices
by prospects of being able to come out. They know likewise the best horses, and which are sure
to win.

But there are numbers of willing, untutored betting-men, who go in of their own accord--'quite
promiscuous.' They belong to the class of petty tradesmen, and perhaps there are steady workmen
and comfortably incomed clerks among them; although it is the tradesmen who are most numerous,
and who give colour to the whole body. There is Macwait, the cheap baker, he contributes his
quota weekly to the betting-shop: he has a strong desire to touch a twenty-pound stake. Whetcoles,
the potato salesman, has given up a lucrative addition to his regular business--the purveying
of oysters--for the sake of having more time to attend the office. Nimblecut, the hairdresser,
has been endeavouring to raise his charge for shaving one half-penny per chin, to be enabled
to speculate more largely. Shavings, journeyman carpenter, calculates upon clearing considerably
more by 'Sister to Swindler' than a year's interest from the savings-bank. There are thousands
of similarly circumstanced speculators: they make a daily, if not more frequent promenade to
the betting-office; and on the days when the races come off, they may be observed in shoals,
nodding and winking knowingly as they pass one another. Some are seen with jocular countenances,
and pass for pleasant fellows: they are impressed with the idea that their horses are looking
up. In others, the jocular expression has passed away, and the philosophical observer sets
them down as melancholy individuals, given to castigating their wives, and verging dogwards.

Betting-men--those who take a pride in their profession--assume generally a looseness of style:
there may be an appropriateness in this, considering the mercurial contents of their pockets.
In walking, a freedom of gait, approaching the swagger, is generally adopted; cigar-smoking
at the office door is considered respectable; hands may be inserted ad libitum in pockets,
and a primary coloured 'kerchief worn mildly. The individual is usually seen by the observant
public making up his book. But the evidence of shrewdness consists in familiarity with the
technicalities of turf-lore; without this, costume is of no use. The better must be well up
to the jockeys' names, and those of the horses--of the races they have run--of Day's stable--of
Scott's ditto--must know when the cup or 2000-guinea stakes are run for. His vocabulary comprises
such words as outsiders, winners, two-year old, lame ducks, and bad books. He sometimes talks
loudly, although, for the most part, he delights in a close, earnest, confidential, suppressed
tone. There is nothing a better prides himself on more than being in the possession of some,
to the common herd, unattainable secret--something only to be obtained once in a lifetime,
and then only after severe losses--a secret brought out by some train of fortuitous and most
intricately-woven events. It comes through a line of ingenious, quickwitted, up-to-everything
communicators, and is made known proximately to the fortunate possessor by a diplomatic potman,
who waits in a room frequented by a groom, who pumped it out of a stable-boy, who----It is
not improbable that the information has somewhat deteriorated in its journeyings through mews
and along dung-heaps: it is possible, when it comes to be made use of, it may be found very
expensive in its application.

The turf speculator must possess a frank and willing imagination: he must calculate upon his
account at the betting-shop, as he would upon so much being to his credit at a banker's; he
must consider the office cheques with which his pocket-book is overflowing, as at par with
bank-notes; he need keep but little gold and silver, as it is far better to know that it is
producing a highly-profitable percentage. Should he be visited by any momentary fits of depression,
he may draw forth his portfolio, and gratify his eyes with the contemplation of certificates
for fives, and twenties, and fifties.

We must not pass over a class of speculators who bet, and yet who are not true betting-men:
they do not wish to be seen in betting-shops, yet cannot keep away. They are not loungers,
for they may be observed passing along the thoroughfare seemingly with all desirable intentness
upon their daily business; but they suddenly disappear as they arrive at the door of the betting-shop.
These are your respectable men; worthy, solid, family men. But it is not easy to enter a betting-shop,
and avoid rubbing against some clinging matter. Betting-men generally are not nice in their
sensibilities; and perhaps on a fine Sunday morning, proceeding with his family to the parish
church, our Pharisee may receive a tip from some unshaven, strong-countenanced sans culotte,
which may cause his nerves to tingle for the rest of the day.

But there is also a light, flimsy, fly-away-kind of speculator, a May-day betting-man--a youth
fresh, perhaps, from school and the country, with whom his friends have hardly yet made up
their minds what to do--who is at present seeing as much as he can see of town, upon what he
finds decidedly small means. He has an ambition to appear fast; has of course a great admiration
for fast people; but is at present young and fresh-coloured, and cannot, with all his endeavours,
make himself appear less innocent and good-natured than he is. He has strained his purse in
a bet, has betted on a winning horse, and has won five pounds. This would perhaps have fixed
him for life as a speculator; but the money burns in his pocket. Before he can make up his
mind to lay out his winnings on fresh bets, he must have a Hansom for the day. He decorates
himself in his light-coloured paletot, blue neck-tie, and last dickey--drives to Regent Street
to purchase cigars--to an oyster-shop redolent of saw-dust and lobsters--rigs a very light
pair of kids--drives to, and alarms by his fast appearance, a few of his friends, who forthwith
write off long woolly letters to relations in the country. He is accordingly cited to appear
at home, where he becomes a respected local junior clerk in a Welsh mining company.

There are various kinds of betting-offices. Some are speculative, May-fly offices, open to-day
and shut to-morrow--offices that will bet any way, and against anything--that will accommodate
themselves to any odds--receive any sum they can get, small or large; and should a misfortune
occur, such as the wrong horse winning, forget to open next day. These are but second-rate
offices. The money-making, prosperous betting-office is quite a different thing. It is not
advisable for concerns which intend making thousands in a few years, to pay the superintendents
liberally, and to keep well-clothed touters--to conduct themselves, in short, like speculative
offices. They must not depend entirely upon chance. Chance is very well for betting-men, but
will not do for the respectable betting-office keepers, who are the stakeholders.

The plan adopted is a very simple one, but ingenious in its simplicity. The betting-office
takes a great dislike in its own mind to a particular horse, the favourite of the betting-men.
It makes bets against that horse, which amount in the aggregate to a fortune; and then it buys
the object of its frantic dislike. This being effected, the horse of course loses, and the
office wins. How could it be otherwise? Would you have a horse win against its owner's interest?
The thing being settled, the office, in order to ascertain the amount of its winnings, has
only to deduct the price of the horse from its aggregate bets, and arrange the remainder in
a line of perhaps five figures. Whereupon the betting-men grow seedier and more seedy; some
of the more mercurial go off in a fit of apoplectic amazement; some betake themselves to Waterloo
Stairs on a moonless night; some proceed to the Diggings, some to St Luke's, and some to the
dogs; some become so unsteady, that they sign the wrong name to a draft, or enter the wrong
house at night, or are detected in a crowd with their hand in the wrong man's pocket. But by
degrees everything comes right again. The insane are shut up--the desperate transported--the
dead buried--the deserted families carted to the workhouse; and the betting-office goes on
as before.

A MAY FLOWER-SHOW AT CHISWICK.

It is one o'clock P. M.; I am at Hyde-Park Corner; I hail the nearest 'Hansom,' and am quickly
dashing away for Chiswick. The road leading thither is always a scene of great bustle: on a
Chiswick fête-day, this is very much augmented. But I am early, and the increase of vehicles
is not yet great. A few carriages and cabs, mostly filled with ladies, who, like myself, are
early on the road, and eager to be at the scene of action, are occasionally passed; for my
horse is a good one, and the driver seems to desire to do the journey in good style. The majority
of passengers and conveyances are chiefly of the everyday character, and such as are always
met with on this great thoroughfare. Omnibuses, with loads of dusty passengers; carts and wagons,
filled with manure, and each with a man or boy dozing upon the top; teams baiting at the roadside
inns; troops of dirty children at the ends of narrow streets; with carriers' carts, and travel-stained
pedestrians, make up the aggregate of the objects on the road. But in another hour the scene
will change; the aristocratic 'turn-out,' with its brilliant appointments and spruce footmen--the
cab, the brougham, and the open chariot, all filled with gaily-dressed company, will crowd
the way; for a Chiswick fête is one of the events of a London season. People go there as they
do to the Opera--to see and to be seen. As I journey onward, I catch glimpses of blooming fruit-trees,
and green hedges, speaking of the approach of summer. The little patches of garden by the wayside
are gay with flowers, but sadly disfigured with dust. Even they, however, look quite refreshing
in contrast with the close and crowded streets I have left behind. The spire of the church
on Chiswick green is peeping above the houses in the distance; and by the time I have noticed
the increase of bustle on the road, and about the inn-doors, the cab has stopped at one of
the garden entrances. Early as I am, many others are before me, and are waiting for the hour
of admission--two o'clock. The carriages of those already arrived are drawn up in rank upon
the green; policemen are everywhere to preserve order; ostlers are numerous, with buckets of
water and bundles of hay; groups of loungers are looking on, carriages are every minute arriving,
and the bustle is becoming great. As it yet wants ten minutes to two o'clock, I shall occupy
the time by giving the reader a little introduction to what we are presently to see.

There are three of these fêtes every year--one in May, another in June, and a third in July.
When the weather is fine, there is always a brilliant gathering of rank, and beauty, and fashion;
but the June show is usually the best attended. English gardening is always well represented
here. The plants and fruit brought for exhibition astonish even those who are best acquainted
with what English gardeners can do. For several seasons past, it was thought that cultivation
had reached its highest point; yet each succeeding year outvied the past, and report tells
me, that the plants exhibited to-day are in advance of anything previously seen. They are sent
here from widely distant parts of the country--many of them are brought one or two hundred
miles; but most of the large collections are from gardens at a comparatively short distance
from Chiswick. The principal prize is contended for by collections of thirty stove and greenhouse
plants; and their large size will be apparent, when it is stated that one such collection makes
eight or ten van-loads. There are never more than three or four competitors for this prize.
Their productions are generally brought into the garden on the evening previous to the day
of exhibition. At about daylight on the morning of the fête, the great bustle of preparation
begins. Everything has to be arranged, and ready for the judges by ten o'clock A. M., at which
hour all exhibitors, and others interested in the awards, are obliged to leave the gardens;
and they are not readmitted until the gates are thrown open to those who may have tickets of
admission, at two o'clock.

At last they are open. (How expectation clogs the wheels of time!) I join the throng; and in
a few minutes I am among the flowers, which are arranged in long tents, on stages covered with
green baize, as a background to set off in bold relief their beautiful forms and tints. There
are three military bands stationed in different parts of the grounds, to keep up a succession
of enlivening strains until six o'clock, the hour when the proceedings, so far as the public
are concerned, are supposed to terminate. One of them is already 'discoursing most eloquent
music.' Company rapidly arrives; well-dressed persons are strolling through the tents, sitting
beneath the trees, or on the benches, listening to the music. The scene is a gay one. The richness
and beauty of the masses of flower, rivalled only by the gay dresses and bright eyes of hundreds
of fair admirers; the delicate green of the trees clothed with their young foliage, and the
carpet-like lawns, all lit up by a bright May sun, and enlivened by the best music, combine
to form a whole, the impression of which is not easily forgotten.

But I am forgetting the flowers. Suppose we enter the nearest tent, and note the more prominent
objects on our way. Here is a somewhat miscellaneous assortment; geraniums are conspicuous.
The plants are remarkably fine, averaging nearly a yard across, and presenting masses of flower
in the highest perfection. One is conspicuous for the richness of its colouring; its name is
magnet (Hoyle.) There is a collection of ferns, too; their graceful foliage, agitated by every
breeze, adds much to the interest of this tent. Among the most remarkable are the maidenhair-ferns
(adiantum), and a huge plant of the elk's horn fern, from New South Wales. It derives its name
from the shape of its large fronds. Before us is a quantity of Chinese hydrangeas, remarkable
in this case for the small size of the plants, and disproportionately large heads of pink blossoms.
Cape pelargoniums, too, are well represented: they are curious plants, indigenous to the Cape
of Good Hope; specimens of them are very often sent to this country, with boxes of bulbs, for
which the Cape is famous. When they arrive, they look like pieces of deadwood; but when properly
cared for, they rapidly make roots and branches, and produce their interesting flowers in abundance.

Passing to the next tent, we enter that part devoted to the fruit. A delicate aroma pervades
the place. Directly before us is a large plant of the Chinese loquah, loaded with fruit. This
is yellow, and about the size of a small plum. The plant is a great novelty; for although hardy
enough to be grown out of doors in this country, it produces its fruit only in a hothouse.
Associated with it are some large vines in pots, with a profusion of fine bunches of grapes.
Then there are dishes of strawberries (British Queens), numerous pine-apples, cherries, peaches,
bananas (grown in this country), melons, &c.; besides some very fine winter apples and pears,
which have been admirably preserved. Of the former, the winter-queen, old green nonpareil,
and golden harvey are conspicuous; of the latter, the warden and Uvedale's St Germain are fine.

