In 1814, Dr Dickson visited Scotland, and was received as a beloved and honoured guest at the
table where, long ago, he had waited as a servant, and where had sat the stranger gentleman
in regimentals, who clapped him on the shoulder, and spoke to him words of encouragement which
perhaps had sunk deeper into his mind than he was conscious of himself. His native politeness
had always been remarkable, and now his general information and agreeable manners made his
society a true acquisition. After a few months' visit, he left Scotland never to return. Again
he went abroad, and finally settled at Tripoli, the African port on the Mediterranean, under
the Turkish dominion. Here the sultan's viceroy, the pacha, soon appointed Dr Dickson to be
his chief physician--a post which he held for thirty years under various successive pachas,
although the rival claimants for vice-regal authority sometimes fought so fiercely, that the
English residents were glad to seek shelter in Malta, until it was decided who should reign.
Still, Dr Dickson never lost his office, which has now descended to his son; an extraordinary
instance of permanent favour under so arbitrary a government. Dr Dickson had married a Scottish
lady, and being now settled in every way, his life, so far as we know, affords no farther incidents
necessary to record. It was a career, however, of continued usefulness and benevolence, and,
surrounded by a promising family, who revered their father, we believe he enjoyed as much happiness
as usually falls to the lot of humanity.

One only drawback there was to the favour in which he stood with the pacha: the doctor was
obliged, when attending the high ladies of the court, to drink in their presence one-half of
every drug he prescribed--a custom it might not be amiss to introduce into England, although
not with the view, as in Tripoli, of guarding against poison! Dr Dickson also acted as consul
for Portugal, although for many years he received no salary: at last, on paying a flying visit
to London, two years before his death, he was recommended to go home by Lisbon to seek redress.
He found, however, that amid the clash of political factions, justice was difficult to be found,
and so he gave up both the search and the post.

The estimation in which Dr Dickson was held at Tripoli, both by the English residents and native
population, cannot be better described than by quoting entire a paragraph from a London newspaper,
which inserted a notice of his death in the year 1847: 'Letters from Tripoli, just received,
announce the death, on the 27th February, after only four days' illness, of Dr John Dickson,
a half-pay surgeon of the British navy, who had been upwards of thirty years a resident at
Tripoli, and where, such was the extent of his gratuitous attendance on the indigent, that
the mournful event cannot but be looked upon as a great public calamity; and happening as it
did, at the very instant the first gun announced the anniversary of the birth of the Prophet,
not a few of the Mohammedans regarded the event with a superstitious awe. On the 1st of March,
the remains of the lamented deceased were interred in the Protestant cemetery, which is distant
about two miles from the town, escorted by a military guard of honour, sent by order of his
Excellency the Pacha, and followed not only by every foreign consul, but by all the European
residents of every class, and by several thousands of Jews and Mohammedans; and so anxious
were many whom he had attended professionally to pay this last tribute of respect to his memory,
that they actually rose from their beds of sickness and joined the mournful procession. Whilst
it passed along the crowded streets, the shrieks and cries of the natives bewailing his death
were audible, issuing from the miserable hovels which he had been wont to enter, to prescribe
for suffering humanity.'

After this, it is needless to add anything in the way of exhortation. The little history here
given is full of encouragement. It is that of a man who raised himself from humble life, not,
it is true, to any dazzling eminence, but to a respectable and respected position in society;
and this not by means of rare talent, but simply by industry, perseverance, and general propriety
of conduct. The interest of the piece, we believe, would have been much lessened, had we, through
false delicacy, withheld the real name of the individual. It is happily not the fashion in
our day for self-educated and self-raised men to blush for their origin; and we are quite sure
that every word of this narrative will be read both with pride and pleasure by the flourishing
and widely-scattered family of Dr John Dickson.

A DAY AT THE BATHS OF LUCCA.

The baths of Lucca, ever since the opening of the continent, have been graced annually by the
presence of from four to five hundred English, who shew their good taste in selecting this
miniature Switzerland for their residence during the summer months. It is, in truth, a lovely
valley, with its thickly-wooded hills, and shady lanes, and murmuring river; while the irregularity
of the villages, or clusters of houses where travellers are generally lodged, give variety
and interest to the landscape.

The first of these groups of buildings is the Ponte a Serraglio. Here are the principal hotels;
the post-office; the English reading-room and club; the Casino; a few small shops dignified
by such names as 'Magazine of Novelties,' and 'The Real Bazaar;' and a caffè; where congregate
all the idlers of the community.

About a mile further on, attainable by a pretty road, winding at the foot of a mountain bordered
by acacia trees, and overhanging the river Serchio, is situated the Villa--another range of
tenements, the inhabitants of which arrogate to themselves greater staidness of demeanour than
their brethren at the Ponte, thinking, perhaps, that the vicinity of the English chapel--a
handsome structure, in the style of an ancient Venetian palace--may vindicate this assumption
of decorum. There is but one hotel at the Villa--calm, dignified, and frigid; the remainder
of a long rambling street of which the place is composed, consists entirely of lodging-houses,
having gardens attached to each, where little children may be seen playing at the doors, and
English nurse-maids pursuing their laborious avocations. This preponderance of small children
at the Villa, is as much its characteristic distinction, as whatever relates to gaiety, or
novelty, or scandal, may be considered the peculiar attribute of the Ponte.

A distinct race inhabit the Bagni alla Villa--a group of houses inaccessible to carriages,
rising on a hill behind the palace belonging to the ex-duke of Lucca. A fourth division of
dwellings is the Bagni Caldi, the highest point of all, the occupants whereof have to descend
as if from an eyrie, to gain any of the other localities. They are a set of whom little seems
to be known--quaint and unsocial personages, venturing out at dusk like bats and owls, and
looking grimly on all but their immediate neighbours: the gentlemen, mostly gouty, or otherwise
disabled; the fairer sex, isolated and ancient, with a marked predilection for close straw-bonnets,
large brown parasols, and blue veils.

Thus much for the first outline of the place and its frequenters. We must now take a glance
at their pursuits and enjoyments.

The general tenor of a day at the baths is easily described. Till about five in the afternoon
but few people venture out, although early in the morning it is said that some, more active
than the rest, sally forth on their mountain rambles; but this deponent vouches not for their
number or degree, never himself having had ocular demonstration of their movements. During
the heat of the day, the greater part remain at home, excepting, indeed, the population of
the Ponte, who, exulting in all the advantages their position unites, circulate from the post-office
to the caffè, from the caffè to the club, and condole with such of the hapless denizens of
the Villa and Bagni Caldi as a thirst for news and devouring ennui have driven to brave a hot
summer walk to their more favoured region.

There is always, even at noon, a buzz of animation in the little piazza of the Ponte--always
a knot of worthies in loose brown holland coats and straw-hats, talking over every passing
occurrence. The banker's office, too, is situated here, and that is a lounge in itself--a sort
of private committee-room for the discussing of any fresh piece of gossip, ere it is submitted
for dissection to the public at large. The English banker has now become an important feature
in all continental circles. The unsophisticated beings who, perchance, imagine his duties simply
limited to cashing travellers' bills, and discounting circular-notes, have now an opportunity
of learning over how wide a field of action his arduous avocations must be spread. The English
banker should be imperturbably good-tempered, active, and obliging; allowing no difficulties
to dismay, no ungraciousness to offend him. His clients' happiness, interest, comfort, and
amusement are his engrossing thought; and if, after experiencing an infinity of trouble, rudeness,
and vexation, his only return should be the half-percentage on a L.50 draft, he is expected
to smile, be contented, and with undaunted resolution, pursue the same train of kindness and
civility towards the next new-comer. The banker's wife has also her line of tactics to pursue.
She must call on all the influential families who bring letters of recommendation to her husband;
listen with interest to all the detailed miseries of travelling with young children; and be
sympathisingly anxious about little hopeful's eyeteeth. She must be an adept at writing notes,
and be possessed of an immense store of local information to supply the incessant inquiries
with which she is assailed. She must also give tea-parties and dances, get partners for all
the disengaged young ladies, and stand up herself, if necessary, to complete the quadrille.
Finally, she must be above feeling any affront or mortification, and learn to consider herself
in the light in which she is commonly regarded--a sort of machine pertaining to the bank: just
as much a part of the establishment, in fact, as the iron money-chest which stands in the office,
and created solely for the advantage and convenience of her travelling country-people.

When the continental banker happens to have no wife, in his own person must be united the attributes
I have described; and with a beaming face, and frank shake of the hand, must he advance from
his desk to greet every visitor who breaks in upon his hours of business. Let us take a peep,
for instance, one July morning, into the bank.

Two or three old habitués are reading the newspapers; before them is a table on which are army
and navy lists; notices of the arrivals and departures of the French and Peninsular Steam-Navigation
Company's packets from Leghorn; itineraries of the baths; cards of professors of various languages,
&c. The banker is writing. Enter a lady; a boy, with turn-down collar and very red ears; a
little girl in a nice hat; a Swiss bonne; and a baby, with a blue sash and feather.

Banker. (Advancing cordially.) Ah, Mrs Worryemwell, how do you do? (Pats the boy on the head.)
And how are you, my fine fellow? (Gives the baby an amicable poke in the ribs, whereat it laughs
and crows uproariously.) Take a seat on the sofa, will you, Mrs Worryemwell; and now, tell
me, when did you leave Florence?

Mrs Worryemwell. The day before yesterday. We should have been here sooner, but we missed the
train for Lucca, because one of the trunks was left behind at the Pisa station, and I would
not move till it was found.

Banker. (Anxiously.) But you recovered it, I trust?

Mrs W. Yes; but we are in sad trouble now: a canister of arrow-root must have remained on the
Lucca Railway, and baby will get ill without it. We had a good many small packages, and this
one was overlooked in the confusion; but--

Banker. (Promptly.) I'll write to the clerk in charge at the station about it at once.

Mrs W. Oh! thank you. I was going to ask you to do so. A brown, japanned canister, fastened
down with some strong twine.

Banker. Very good, very good. How do you like your house at the Villa? I gave orders that the
beds should be aired, and charcoal and oil provided before your arrival, just as you directed.

Mrs W. Thank you; pretty well; but, as usual with all Italians, the owners are most disobliging.
I wanted a cot put in for baby, but they say they have none, and that it was not stipulated
for in the agreement. Now, surely (impressively), surely a person of your experience would
never take a house for a lady and young children without such an indispensable thing as a cot?

Banker. You did not mention it in your letter, my good lady, and having four other friends'
lodgings to fix that same day, it has, I fear, escaped me. (Good-humouredly.) But we'll try
and arrange matters. I'll come down and talk to the Padrone di Casa--

Mrs W. (Taking a memorandum out of her reticule.) Let me see. Ah, yes! butter, milk, eggs.
Could you favour me with the exact prices of all these necessaries? for I am certain the people
of the house have cheated in what they have procured for us.

Banker. Certainly. One of my clerks shall procure you every information.

Mrs W. Ah, yes! and if you will come this afternoon to the Villa, you can also insist on their
white-washing my English servant's room. It overlooks the garden, and a scorpion was found
on the window this morning. Now, white-washing the walls is the only safeguard; it would really
annoy me if he were stung.

Banker. I will see about that too. Ahem! I must write at once about the arrow-root, or the
post will have left. Can I supply you with any money?

Mrs W. You are very kind. I must think--(putting her hand to her head)--a few more things I
wished to ask. Do you remember them, Freddy dear?

Boy. (Huskily, and blushing.) Club, church, pony.

Mrs W. Very right, love. What is the subscription to the club and reading-room?

Banker. Three napoleons for the season.

Mrs W. Will you enter my name? They give parties there sometimes, I believe. Ah, then the church!
how much is that?

Banker. Three sittings for you and your two children will not amount to quite so much as the club.

Mrs W. Of course not. But even so it is a bad system. The church ought not to be made a medium
of traffic--paying for church-seats always gives me a headache. I think, do you know, two sittings
will be sufficient; yes, put me down for two. I will take Freddy in the morning, and his sister
in the afternoon. That is all, I believe.

Boy. (In an agitated manner, whispers) Pony!

Mrs W. Ah, true, dear! Can you recommend me where to hire a pony for my boy?

Banker. To be sure I can. (Giving a card.) Here are the address and terms of a man who lets
them out either by the day or month. Ahem!--would you like the money in gold or dollars?

Mrs W. I am much obliged. On one other subject perhaps you could assist me. There really seems
no one worth knowing here at present, except a family who always reside at the baths, and often
receive, and have written a book, and are quite celebrated. I should like--

Banker. (Hurriedly.) Really, that I fear I cannot manage for you. The arrow-root--

Mrs W. (Rising.) Oh, very well. It is late, I am afraid. I need not trouble you to-day for
money, I believe. I brought sufficient from Florence for the present; we will wait till the
exchange is more favourable.

Banker. (Heartily.) No matter; you can have it whenever you please. I shall come this afternoon
and put all in order for you.

Mrs W. Thank you. Good-morning. (Shakes hands, and exit.)

In this manner, and through similar interruptions, much of the banker's time is taken up, till
near three o'clock, which is the general dinner-hour at the baths. Many people are supplied
with this renovating meal from the Europa Hotel at the Ponte, which is presided over by one
of the most honest, obliging, indefatigable, and enterprising landlords in existence. Not only
has he the direction of three hotels at the Ponte, two of them off-shoots from the parent Europa,
but he undertakes the herculean task of daily sending forth thirty-six dinners to different
families; the whole requiring a combination of artistic resource and fertility of intellect
that fully justifies his right to the appellation bestowed on him by the ex-duke--that of 'the
Napoleon of inn-keepers.' These repasts are conveyed in large tin boxes, containing warm embers,
on which are placed the various dishes of which the dinner is composed; and they are carried
to their destinations on the heads of divers active, nimble-footed marmitons. As the hour of
three approaches, numbers of these emissaries are seen gliding swiftly along the roads; and
I never yet encountered one without comparing him to the slave who appeared at the bidding
of the Genius of the Lamp, and bore a sumptuous banquet to the presence of Aladin.

After thus recruiting the inward man, the whole population of the baths seem suddenly to kindle
into activity; and soon after five every one is astir. Some ride, some drive, some walk. You
see every variety of conveyance, from the last London-built carriage, and livery servants,
to an unpretending one-horse timonella; and in the same manner amongst the equestrians, the
most ill-favoured little pony, its rider equipped in a straw-bonnet, with a shawl pinned across
the saddle, will unblushingly thrust itself into companionship with a handsome English horse,
whose owner is graced by the most unexceptionable habit and other appliances. Even the very
donkeys walk along with dignified resolution, as if determined to ruffle it with the best,
and not yield an inch of their prerogative. In fact, they evidently know their own value, and
remember that not one of the hills around--not the giant tree on the heights of Lugliano, nor
the tempting strawberry-gardens on the mountain of Benabbio--could be attained without their
help. A few veteran ponies, it is true, now claim equal sureness of foot, but the popular feeling
still leans towards the long-eared auxiliaries, who always lead the way on such excursions,
displaying an accuracy of judgment which would not discredit their far-famed relations in the
frightful passes of the Andes.

Thus the evening wears on; gradually the children and babies disappear from the scene; then
follow the invalids, who had ventured out to sun themselves in the genial afternoon; and soon
parties of riders are seen returning, their laughter and cheerful voices sounding pleasantly
on the ear, leading one to fancy there may be some happy people after all! It is amusing, too,
to watch some of those on foot, who stop in their homeward way, and peer wistfully over a range
of green palisades, that border the road in the vicinity of the Villa, and through a screen
of spreading foliage, catch tempting glimpses of a winding path and veranda-like portico, where
there are birds, and flowers, and vases, and which leads the way to a perfect Tusculum within.
This dwelling is an object of interest to all the visitors at the baths; and if, like the banker's
client, they have been unsuccessful in their overtures to procure access to its circle, they
sometimes, nevertheless, hover curiously in the neighbourhood, and are disposed to be indignant
at not having an 'open sesame' to its doors.

But as night begins to close, even these dissatisfied pedestrians must hasten their steps,
for it is near tea-time, and almost every one at the baths has some one else to spend the evening
with him. There is always a vast demolition of cold chickens, and cakes, and preserves, and
then a little music, and a little conversation, and an immense deal of gossip. The general
complaint is, that the place is rather dull; and, indeed, it must be owned, that formerly there
were more facilities for spending a gay season than at present.

Some years ago, when the ex-duke came with his little court, weekly balls were given at his
residence, as well as at the Casino. But all these scenes of pleasure have now passed away.
The Grand-duke of Tuscany, the present possessor of Lucca, has at this moment weightier cares
to occupy his attention than the summer amusements of a watering-place; the Casino, so long
the opprobrium of the baths, is now closed--it is to be hoped for ever; and the English Club,
or Cercle de Réunion, though at present in every respect flourishing, has had too much experience
of the ungracious office of giving evening parties, to be inclined to resume the attempt.

The diversions of Lucca during the last summer were judicially limited to rides and quiet tea-parties,
and it may be said, that before eleven o'clock every social réunion breaks up. About ten o'clock,
in fact, the shawling processes commence; and servants are seen escorting home their padroni,
holding lanterns carefully near the ground, to guard against the contingency of their stepping
on the toads, which disport themselves in all the lanes at night, and are of the size of respectable
tortoises.

Then gradually the lights in every window disappear, fewer and fewer voices are borne upon
the breeze, and ere the midnight bell has tolled, all is darkness and repose.

TWENTY-FOUR HOURS OF A SAILOR'S LIFE AT SEA.

One of the visions of youth is, that the life of a sailor is all fun, frolic, and happiness.
Can there be anything more delightful, they think, than sailing about on the wide ocean, visiting
far-distant regions of the earth, and seeing the strange manners of different countries? Little
are they aware of the constant toil to which the poor mariner is exposed--the perils he encounters,
the thankless life he is generally doomed to lead. He is, in fact, compelled to endure pretty
much the lot of a slave; for, as is well known, government on shipboard is a species of despotism,
often a cruel tyranny. Remonstrance in nearly every circumstance is in vain--it is mutiny.
No matter how roughly orders are issued; they must be implicitly obeyed. 'D'ye murmur? Hold
your tongue, you rascal, or I'll put you in irons!' Such is not a particularly uncommon form
of address to the sailor, who so far forgets his position as to even hint a difference of opinion.
Possibly, it is quite right, for the sake of discipline, and the safety of all concerned, that
severity should be employed. We merely note the circumstance.

In the very best conducted ships, however, there must necessarily be toils and trials of temper.
The most tormenting thing in a sailor's profession, is the want of that regular alternation
of work through the day, and repose through the night, which is enjoyed by ordinary mortals.
This is a matter on which so little is known, that we are induced to expatiate upon it. Dear
landsmen! would you like to know how idly and jovially a foremast Jack gets through his twenty-four
hours at sea? Listen; and when we have 'said our say,' envy poor Jack his romantic calling,
and begrudge him his L.2, 10s. or L.3 per month, as much as you can find in your hearts.

We are in the chief mate's watch (the larboard), and come on deck for the middle watch--that
is, at 12 P.M.--having had our spell below of four hours during the first night-watch (8 P.M.
to 12 P.M.) It is a cold, dark, squally night, with frequent heavy showers of rain--in fact,
what seamen emphatically call 'dirty' weather, and our pea-jackets and sou'-westers are necessary
enough. Hardly have we got on deck, ere the mate, who is a bit of a 'driver,' begins to order
this brace to be pulled, that yard to be squared, this sheet to be belayed, that sail to be
clewed up, and t'other set. The wind howls, the rain beats, the ship staggers, the salt spray
flies over us from time to time. During the space of three bells, we have our hands pretty
full, and then the mate bawls: 'For'ard there! In with jib; lay out, men!' The vessel is buried
to her bight-heads every plunge she takes, and sometimes the solid sea pours over her bowsprit
as far as the but-end of the flying jib-boom. But to hear is of course to obey; and while some
of our messmates spring to the downhaul of the jib, and rattle it down the stay, we and another
man get out along the bowsprit, and with our feet resting on the slippery, knotted footrope
to windward, we clutch hold of the jib, which is hanging down and lashing over to leeward.
Pitch, pitch--splash, dash, go the bows; at one moment we are tossed high in the air, and the
next we sink so low that the water reaches up to our knees as the ship settles down again,
only to rise for a plunge heavier than before. We have just got the jib half-stowed, 'after
a fashion,' when our messmate sings out: 'Hold hard, Jack!' and we cling for dear life. The
next instant, a wave rolls a fathom high over our head, and we emerge, spluttering and gasping
from a genuine cold salt-water bath, such as the hydropathists have no idea of. Before our
nice little job is completed, we get two or three more comfortable duckings, and finally crawl
on board half-drowned, and thankful that we were not altogether washed away, as many better
fellows have been, at that same blessed task of jib-furling on a stormy night.

We have just given ourselves a good shake, like a Newfoundland dog, when four bells (2 A.M.)
strike, and the man at the wheel is of course relieved, his time being up. It happens to be
our turn, or 'trick,' at the wheel, and we must at once take to it, all dripping and exhausted
as we are. The ship steers wildly, and we have continually to ease her when she pitches; yet,
do what we can, the grumbling mate has many a complimentary word for us, flatteringly intimating
his opinion, that we 'know no more about steering than our grandmother; but he'll work our
old iron up to some tune, before he's done with us!' Ere our trick is out, our arms feel as
stiff as iron bars, from the violent and unremitting strain on their muscles. The mate has
steaming hot coffee brought him; but there's not a drop for poor Jack, if it would save his
life. Oh, how we long to hear eight bells strike! At length they do strike, and the watch below
are bid to 'tumble up, Beauties, and have a look at the lovely scenery!' We are then relieved
at the wheel, and go below with our watch, hoping to enjoy four hours of blessed oblivion.

We swing ourself into our hammock (or berth, as it may happen), and are fast asleep in a minute.
But we have not been an hour in the Land of Nod, ere three heavy blows from a handspike are
struck on the forecastle hatch, which is then slid back, and a hoarse voice bawls: 'All ha-ands
a-ho-oy! tumble up to reef tops'ls!' Out we bundle, and grope for our clothes (the forecastle
being as dark as a dog's mouth), get them on somehow, and hurry-scurry on deck. We find the
weather and sea altered much for the worse, and the Old Man (captain) himself on the quarter-deck,
giving orders to the mates, who are tearing about, bawling and swearing like demons; while
the 'idlers'--that is to say, the carpenter, steward, cook, and boys, who keep no regular watch--have
all been roused up, to bear a hand, and 'pull their pound.' Halliards are let go, reef-tackles
hauled chock-a-block, and we lay aloft helter-skelter, best man up first, and bend over the
yard, till the weather-earing is secured; and then comes the welcome cry: 'Haul to leeward!'
It is done, and then we all 'knot-away' with the reef-points. The reef having been taken (or
two, perchance), we shin down again to mast-head the topsails, and get all in sailing trim.
A grog is now served out, and we go below, to sleep out the rest of our four hours, one of
which we have been deprived of by this reefing job. Sometimes it happens, however, that we
lose three, or all four, when there is absolute necessity for all hands on deck.

Here, we pause a moment, to say a word on the serving of grog--a composition of rum and water.
The use of this stuff is of old date in the navy, and would seem to be considered essential
to navigation. In what are called temperance ships, no grog is served, neither after reefing
topsails, nor at any other time; but what is very shameful, in many instances no substitute
is allowed. If sailors might have coffee instead of rum, they would thankfully accept the substitute,
for coffee is incomparably a better stimulant. The invigoration from rum is only momentary,
and afterwards is perhaps rather pernicious; but the wholesome effect of coffee is felt for
an hour. So they very excusably observe, 'Better grog than nothing!'

To resume the tenor of our narrative: at eight bells (8 A.M.) we are summoned on duty again,
and find that the squall has passed over, and that it is now a fine sunshiny morning, with
all available sail set, and only a heavy swell of the sea to tell what the night has been.
We now get our breakfast (half an hour allowed for that), and the other watch, which has been
eight hours up to our four, gets a forenoon watch below (8 A.M. to 12 A.M.) Alterations of
sails and rigging, and no end of small jobs, keep us hard at work till eight bells (noon) once
more strike, and we then get our luxurious dinner of a pound and a half of salt junk, with
biscuits. But junk is capital stuff for sheathing material, when it is good: unfortunately,
however, it too frequently is 'old horse;' and whatever its quality happens to be, all the
nice juicy pieces are invariably picked out for the cabin table. Anything will do for poor
Jack. His biscuits, too, are sometimes quite alive with weevils, especially on a long voyage
in hot latitudes.

After dinner, all hands are on deck, and kept there till dark. In very large merchantmen, and
all warships, this rule is departed from, and the watch is not so torturing--so true is it
that the servants in small establishments, whether on sea or land, are always the worst treated.
However, we suppose that the hands are on deck. The breeze has now almost died away, and the
sea runs in long, low, slow swells; the ship gently rocking, and the sails occasionally collapsing
with a crash against the creaking masts. Surely, thinks the landsman, there is now nothing
for Jack to do but turn his quid, crack his joke, smoke his pipe, or overhaul his chest, and
put the things to rights in the forecastle, after the 'hurrah's nest' created by the squall
in the past night? Ah, friend, it is very evident that you don't 'know the ropes!' When on
deck, a sailor is never idle in the day-time; even if rain is pouring, something is found for
him to do; and in fine weather, like the day we are describing, there is a superabundance of
work. The carpenter has his bench out--for 'a ship is like a lady's watch, always out of repair;'
the steward is polishing the brass-work of the quarter-deck; the cook is scouring his pots
and pans; the sailmaker is stitching away in the waist; and the crew are, one and all, engaged
in picking oakum, spinning yarns (not such yarns as those amiable gentlemen, the naval novelists,
talk so much about, but rope-yarns, by the aid of spinning-winches), platting sinnet, preparing
chafing-gear, bowsing slack rigging taut, painting boats and bulwarks, scraping yards and masts,
fitting new running-rigging, overhauling the spare sails, and fifty other things--doing, in
fact, everything but idling. And, mind, no conversation is allowed among the men--not a word
more than necessary for the performance of their several duties. If they chat at all when on
deck, it is 'on the sly,' and out of sight and hearing of the vigilant officers, who have eyes
like the lynx, and ears as sharp as needles.

At 4 P.M. commences the dog-watch--that is, the ordinary watch of four hours divided into two
watches of half that length; and the use of them is to shift the rotation of the night-watches.
About 6 P.M. we get supper, and all hands are on deck till eight bells (8 P.M.), when the starboard-watch
go below, and we, the larboard-watch, have the first night-watch--just as they had it last
night, and will the next after. There is very probably plenty of work to do in shifting and
trimming sails and rigging till eight bells again strike (12 P.M.), and then we summon the
other watch with: 'Starbowlings, ahoy!' and go below in turn; and so ends our day.

We have given a fair enough specimen of the twenty-four hours of a sailor's life at sea; but
of course he sometimes has an easier, and sometimes a much harder life of it--depending on
the kind of ship, the nature of the voyage, the state of the weather, and the character of
the captain. Some sea-captains are excellent, kind-hearted men, and make the unavoidably hard
duties of their crew as easy as it is possible; but others--and very many we fear--are terrible
salt-water tyrants. A captain is the absolute master of all on board--his government, as we
have said, is a despotism; and this ever-present sense of his will being law while afloat,
too often hardens and brutalises an originally kind heart.

Landsmen! do you now envy and begrudge a living to the poor blue-jackets, who risk limb and
life to carry on your commerce with the uttermost ends of the earth, and who man the wooden
walls that alone render Britain the invincible mistress of the world? Ladies! dear, tender-hearted
ladies! do you feel indifferent to the hard lot of the gallant fellows who sail the trackless
ocean to supply you with silks and diamonds, with sugar and tea, and every conceivable luxury
of dress and food? Be kind, we implore you, to Poor Jack, wherever you meet him, for he would
shed the last drop of blood in his veins to defend you! Make every Christian allowance for
his follies and his sins when ashore. Do all you can--and we think you might do much if you
would--to ameliorate his physical condition, and you will improve his moral one at the same
time. For ourselves, we can only say that we ever shall own Poor Jack as a messmate and a brother,
and while we have a shot in the locker, he shall freely share it, God help him!

INFLUENCE OF EXAMPLE.

In a certain village in Switzerland, some years ago, there were heavy complaints among all
who possessed trees, that no fruit was safe; that the children plundered it perpetually before
it came to maturity; and not only that, but that the green saplings had no security against
them. Another serious complaint was the barbarity of the children towards all living creatures
in their power. The clergyman, teacher, and elders, often laid their heads together, to find
some remedy for this inhuman spirit, by which every child in the place was more or less affected.
They could not conceive why such a spirit should prevail so specially in this village; but
they could find neither cause nor remedy: all exhortations, all punishments, were in vain.
The clergyman of the village was changed; and the new minister was a great friend to schools.
His first walk was to the school-house. The vice of the scholars had been made known to him,
and the failure of all preventive measures hitherto applied. But, determining within himself
to watch the whole course of proceedings in school, he soon perceived that the teacher had
a habit, and had acquired a singular dexterity in it, of knocking down and killing flies with
his cane, to the end of which he had fastened a piece of leather. The windows were all on one
side, and being exposed to the morning sun of summer, they were continually full of flies.
The teacher's path lay along them, in front of his scholars; and while talking to the latter,
he struck down the flies as they shewed themselves at the window. This manoeuvre amused the
children infinitely more than his instruction did, and they followed his example. They were
incessantly on the watch for flies that buzzed through the room, caught them in their hands,
and shewed as great dexterity in this kind of chase as their teacher in his. But their amusement
did not end here: they had learned to play with their captives, treat them with detestable
cruelty, and seemed to find a wicked delight in observing the shivering of their victims.

On observing these curious and far from pleasing peculiarities of the school, the intelligent
and humane clergyman easily accounted for the spirit of destructiveness among the children;
and his first step was to induce the teacher to take his leather from the end of the cane;
and next, to turn the desks so that the boys sat with their backs to the windows, and the teacher's
path lay on the other side of the room. Then the minister went frequently into the school,
and examined so severely, that both teacher and pupils had more to do than to give their attention
to the flies. As this was not yet entirely satisfactory in its results, the minister took advantage
of the hot summer weather, to have instruction given only in the afternoon, when the school
was not so full of flies, and thus he gradually banished the insects from the thoughts of teacher
and children. But he knew that it was of little avail solely to pull the weeds out of the young
mind. He obtained an unoccupied piece of land fit for planting, and, not far from the school,
laid out a school-garden. This pleased the teacher, and the children willingly took part in
the task, for they had soon learned to like their new minister, who came and worked amongst
them. The garden was surrounded by a hedge planted with trees and shrubs, and each child had
a tree or shrub given him to take care of. A nursery was soon laid out, and provision made
for plenty of larger gardens and orchards in the village. And, behold! the spirit of destructiveness
among the children soon passed away; and every man's fruit and garden became safe, the youths
even begging of their parents that trees might be planted in the fields for them to take care
of. The new spirit was communicated from children to parents, till it spread throughout the
entire village; every family had its pretty little garden; an emulation in cultivating flowers
sprang into existence; idle and bad habits disappeared; and gradually the whole place was a
scene of moral as well as of physical beauty.

