From time to time, serious accidents have taken place, and the progress of work stopped, by
the sudden snapping of driving belts in machinery, and, as a general rule, it is found that
the collapse is attributable either to faulty leather or insecure joining. A great improvement
of the leather intended for belts has been brought about during the last few years, by the
introduction of improved processes for currying and the subsequent treatment. Paterson has
worked successfully a patent for rendering belt leather more pliable, and lessening the tendency
to stretch. Under this treatment the leather is either curried or rough dried, and then soaked
in a solution of wood, resin, and gum thus, or frankincense, first melted together, and then
dissolved, by the application of heat, in boiled or linseed oil. The leather, after this process,
is soaked in petroleum or carbon bisulphide containing a little India-rubber solution, and
is finally washed with petroleum benzoline. Should the mixture be found to be too thick, it
is thinned down with benzoline spirit until it is about the consistency of molasses at the
ordinary temperature. The leather so prepared is not liable to stretch, and can be joined in
the usual way by copper riveting, or the ends can be sewn. A good material for smaller belts,
and for strings and bands for connecting larger ones, is that recently patented by Vornberger,
in which the gut of cattle is the basis. After careful cleansing, the gut is split up into
strands, and treated with a bath of pearlash water for several days. The strands are then twisted
together, and after being dipped in a solution of Condy's fluid, are dried. They are then sulphured
in a wooden box for twenty-four hours, after which the twisting can be completed. They are
by this process rendered pliable, and can be used in this state for stitching the leather ends
of larger belts, or can be stiffened by plunging them into a bath of isinglass and white wine
vinegar. After drying they are susceptible of a fine polish, emery cloth being usually employed,
and the final "finish" is given to the material with gum arabic and oil.

Canvas and woven fabrics, coated with India-rubber, are also now being used for driving belts
and for covering machine rollers. As this material can be made in one piece, without the necessity
of a joint, it is uniform in strength, and is recommended as a substitute for leather belts
requiring joints. A patented material of this description is due to Zingler, who boils the
canvas or similar woven fabric under pressure in a solution of tungstate of soda for three
hours. It is then transferred to a bath of acetate of lead solution, and drained, dried, and
stretched. When in this condition it is coated, by means of a spreading machine, with repeated
layers of a composition consisting of India-rubber, antimony sulphide, peroxide of iron, sulphur,
lime, asbestos, chalk, sulphate of zinc, and carbonate of magnesia. When a sufficient thickness
of this composition has been applied, it is vulcanized under pressure at a temperature of 250°
F., or a little higher. The material produced in this manner is said to have the strength and
durability of the best leather belts. Attempts have recently been made to obtain a glue suitable
for joining the ends of driving belts, without the use of metal fastenings or sewing, and Messrs.
David Kirkaldy & Son have reported favorably on such a belt glue, which is being introduced
by Mr. W.V. Van Wyk, of 30 and 31 Newgate street, E.C. In the test applied by them, a joint
of this "Hercules glue," as it is called, in a 4 in. single belt was stronger than the solid
leather. When a tensile stress of 2,174 lb., equivalent to 2,860 lb. per square inch of section,
was applied, the leather gave way, leaving the joint intact. Belts fastened by a scarf joint
with this glue are said to be of absolutely the same thickness and pliability at the joint
as in the main portion of the belt, and thus insure freedom from noise and perfect steadiness.
The instructions for use are simple, and it requires only fifteen minutes for the joint to
set before being ready for use. From a rough chemical analysis of the sample submitted to us,
we find that it consists of gelatine, with small amounts of mineral ingredients. Josef Horadam,
some few years ago, patented in Germany a process for preserving glues from decomposition,
by the addition of from 8 to 10 per cent. of magnesium or calcium chlorides. The addition of
these salts does not impair in any way the strength of the glue, but prevents it from decomposing,
and it may be that the "Hercules glue" is preserved in a similar manner.

A cement of this nature, if thoroughly to be relied on, must be of great value, although the
great variation in the quality of leather, apart from the difficulty hitherto experienced of
securely connecting the ends together, opens a wide field for a material of uniform composition,
and capable of being made in one piece in suitable lengths for driving belts and other machine
gear.--Industries.

       *       *       *       *       *

INAUGURATION OF THE STATUE OF DENIS PAPIN.

A large crowd was present recently at the inauguration of the statue of Denis Papin, which
took place in the court of the Conservatoire des Arts et Metiers, under the presidency of Mr.
Lockroy, Minister of Commerce and the Industries.

In the large hall in which the addresses were made there were several municipal counselors,
the representatives of the Minister of War, Captains Driant and Frocard, several members of
the Institute, and others. A delegation from the Syndical Chamber of Conductors, Enginemen,
and Stokers, which contributed through a subscription toward the erection of the statue, was
present at the ceremony with its banner. Mr. Lanssedat, superintendent of the Conservatoire,
received the guests, assisted by all the professors. Mr. Lanssedat opened the proceedings by
an address in which he paid homage to the scientists who were persecuted while living, to Denis
Papin, who did for mechanics what Nicolas le Blanc did for chemistry, and to those men whose
entire life was devoted to the triumph of the cause of science.

After this, an address was delivered by Mr. Lockroy, who expatiated upon the great services
rendered by the master of all the sciences known at that epoch, who was in turn physician,
physicist, mechanician, and mathematician, and who, in discovering the properties of steam,
laid the foundation of modern society, which, so to speak, arose from this incomparable discovery.

Speeches were afterward made by Mr. Feray d'Essonnes, president of the Syndical Chamber of
Conductors, Enginemen, and Stokers, and by Prof. Comberousse, of the Central School, who broadly
outlined the life of Papin.

Along about four o'clock, the Minister of Commerce and the Industries, followed by all the
invited guests, repaired to the court, and the veil that hid the statue was then lifted amid
acclamation.

Papin is represented as standing and performing an experiment.

Upon the pedestal is the following inscription:

    DENIS PAPIN
    BORN IN 1647, DIED ABOUT 1714,
    INVENTED THE STEAM ENGINE
    IN 1690

    NATIONAL SUBSCRIPTION, 1886.

The inauguration is due to the initiative of Mr. Lanssedat, for it was he who in 1885 suggested
the national subscription, which was quickly raised.

Denis Papin was born at Blois on the 22d of August, 1647. He was the son of a physician. After
the example of his father and of several of his relatives, he studied medicine and took his
degree; but his taste for mathematics, and especially for experimental physics, soon led him
to abandon medicine.

It was in 1690 that he published in the Actes of Leipsic the memoir which will forever and
irrevocably assign to him the priority in the invention of steam engines and steamboats, and
the title of which was: "New method of cheaply obtaining the greatest motive powers."

In 1704, Papin, poor and obliged to do everything for himself, finished his first steamboat;
but for want of money he was unable to make a trial of it until August 15, 1707. The trial
was made upon the Fulda and Wera, affluents of the Weser.

The operation succeeded wonderfully, and, shortly afterward, Papin, being desirous of rendering
the experiment complete, put his boat on the Weser; but the stupid boatmen of this river drew
his craft ashore and broke it and its engine in pieces.

This catastrophe ruined Papin, and annihilated all his hopes. The great man, falling into shocking
destitution, broken down and conquered by adversity, returned to England in 1712 to seek aid
and an asylum.

Everywhere repulsed, he returned to Cassel about 1714, sad and discouraged; and the man to
whom we owe that prodigy, the steam engine, that instrument of universal welfare and riches,
disappeared without leaving any trace of his death.--Le Monde Illustre.

       *       *       *       *       *

DECORATION.

THE STUDY OF ORNAMENTS.

[Footnote: Authorities consulted in preparing this paper: "Analysis of Ornament," Wornum; "Truth,
Beauty, and Power," Dresser; "Lectures on Art." F.W. Moody; "Hopes and Fears for Art," Wm.
Morris; "Ornamental Art," Hulme; "Manuals of Art Education," Prang.]

By MISS MARIE R. GARESCHE, St. Louis High School.

Decoration is the science and art of beautifying objects and rendering them more pleasing to
the eye. As an art, individual taste and skill have much to do with the perfection of the results;
as a science, it is subject to certain invariable laws and principles which cannot be violated,
and a study of which, added to familiarity with some of the best examples, will enable any
one to appreciate and understand it, even if lacking the skill and power to create original
and beautiful designs.

The study of decoration offers many advantages. It cultivates the imagination and the taste;
it develops our capacity for recognizing and enjoying the beautiful in both nature and art;
it adds to the pleasure and refinement of life. Practically, its importance can hardly be overestimated,
as it enters into almost all the industrial pursuits. We can think of but few classes of objects,
even the most simple, in which some attempt at ornamentation is not made.

Ornament is one of the principal means of enhancing the value of the raw material. A piece
of carved wood, or an artistically decorated porcelain vase, worth perhaps many hundred dollars,
if reduced to the commercial value of the material of which they are composed would be valued
at but a few dollars or cents. The higher the ornamentation ranks, from an artistic point of
view, the greater becomes the value of the article to which it is applied. Knowledge of good
designs is thus evidently important, to the purchaser of the object ornamented as well as to
the designer who planned it. This can only be attained by cultivation.

To know and appreciate the best ornament should be an aim set forth in any scheme of general
education. This knowledge and appreciation can be obtained by studying the application of the
laws and principles of ornamental art as exemplified in the works of masters, and also by endeavoring
to apply these principles in designs of our own creation.

PRINCIPLES OF ORNAMENT.

We can only arrive at a knowledge of these principles by a consideration of the object. In
other words, nature and history must be studied. First, nature, for she is the primary source
and origin of all good ornament, whether ancient or modern; and if, as in everything else,
we would not become servile imitators and weak copyists, we must go to the fountain head. Second,
history, for by the study of the ornament of past ages we will not only become acquainted with
the highest developments of which ornamental art is capable, but will moreover broaden our
views as to its object and scope, and will stimulate our own imagination and invention, by
leading us to the contemplation of the myriad beautiful and protean forms it has assumed, when
surrounding conditions, such as religion, climate, temperament, nationality, etc., have been
different. Knowledge of historic ornament will also prevent the imposition on the public, so
common in our day, of weak and unworthy productions which claim to be based on classic originals,
and which constitute a great stumbling block to the progress and appreciation of good art.
The result is somewhat analogous to that produced upon conscientious but ill-informed minds,
who make every effort to appreciate and enjoy the spurious productions of a great author, not
knowing that they are not genuine.

POSITION AND SCOPE OF ORNAMENTAL OR DECORATIVE ART.

I. Object of Ornamental Art.--The object or purpose of ornament, as in the other fine arts,
is to please. In music and poetry this enjoyment is conveyed to the mind through the ear; in
the decorative and pictorial arts, through the eye. Generally, the meaning that we find in
such productions, the appeal that they make to the understanding or feelings, is as great a
source of interest to us as their intrinsic beauty. Poetry and vocal music are greatly dependent
for their effect upon the meaning they convey in words; painting and sculpture, upon the ideas
or sentiments they suggest. In all four, however, and most decidedly in music unaccompanied
by words, the appeal is frequently made almost exclusively to the æsthetic sense, the mind
or intellect remaining almost dormant under the impression. Gems of rhythmical verse, such
as Poe's "Bells," "The Raven," Whistler's "Symphonies in Color," nameless forms in statuary,
expressionless save in the mere beauty of their proportions and curves, and, as has been stated,
nearly the entire field of instrumental music, are cases in point. In the ornamental and decorative
arts, as well as in architecture (from which they are indeed inseparable), beauty alone, in
like manner, should be the principal aim and purpose. In the former, of course, it is indispensable
that such should be the case, as they are entirely subordinate and accessory in their nature,
their only raison d'etre being to beautify or render more agreeable objects already created
for some purpose.

It must not be imagined that such artistic impressions--viz., where the appeal is made almost
solely to the æsthetic sense, regardless of the reason, judgment, or feelings--are necessarily
of a lower order. Their effect is almost analogous to that which nature herself produces upon
us--the starry heavens, the mighty ocean, the tender flower. The impression, whether the object
belongs to the domain of nature or art, may be a merely sensuous one; and if it stops there,
as it certainly does for the majority of people, it ranks without doubt far below productions
where the æsthetic element is only used to stimulate and heighten the appeal to the mind or
the feelings. But if it extend beyond, and makes the sensuous impression but the parting link
to the contemplation of ideal, abstract beauty, without the intermediate aid of the heart or
the reason, it is the shortest and quickest road toward the realization of the infinite, and
makes us indeed feel that it is but a short step "from nature up to nature's God." Thus architecture,
which embodies, more than any other of the space arts, principles of abstract beauty, has been
with reason called the noblest of them all.

However, ornamental and architectural forms frequently do convey a meaning, which we term symbolism
in art. If this symbolism does not detract from the first object of ornament--viz., to beautify--it
is perfectly legitimate and proper. It is impossible to fully appreciate many phases of art,
as, for instance, the Egyptian and the early Christian, if we leave out of sight the symbolism
which pervades them.

While beauty, or capacity for pleasing the eye, may be very definitely said to be the aim of
ornamental art, it is difficult to arrive at a universal standard as to what constitutes beauty.
What pleases one person will not always please another. The child loves glittering objects
and gaudy combinations, which the mature taste of the man declares extravagant and unharmonious.
Savages decorate their weapons, utensils, and their own persons with ornaments that appear
uncouth and barbarous to civilized people.

Besides these differences in taste, which are due to different degrees of mental development,
and which can consequently be easily disposed of, we find among highly civilized and cultured
nations, at different periods, a great diversity of tastes. These varying and sometimes apparently
conflicting products of ornamental art we designate as styles, viz., Egyptian style, Greek
style, Gothic style, etc. So marked are the differences between them that we can sometimes
tell at a glance to what period and to what style a small fragment of decoration belongs.

Notwithstanding these differences, which at first may appear very great, a careful study of
the best styles--those that achieved the greatest and most lasting popularity--will reveal
the fact that they are all based upon certain fundamental laws and principles, and that all
are good, bad, or indifferent according as they conform to or violate these principles. These
essentials having been preserved, the opportunities for the exercise of individual or national
taste are almost boundless.

II. Position of Ornament.--The position that ornament occupies is necessarily a secondary one,
as it cannot exist independently, but is always applied to objects created for some purpose
entirely independent of their capacity for pleasing. This gives us one of the great underlying
principles that should characterize all ornament, viz., it must be subordinate to the object
which it adorns, and must not detract from its use. We often see this rule violated in personal,
household, and architectural decoration--windows so overloaded with projecting cornices and
lattice work as to almost exclude light and air; knife handles carved so elaborately that it
is impossible to grasp them firmly; styles of dress in form or color that impede the motions
of the wearer, and make the clothes, rather than the personality of the wearer, the most noticeable
feature. From this principle there is but a step to another: All ornament should be modest
and moderate. It must not obtrude itself, and a great profusion and ostentation in its application
is always a sign of degeneracy and bad taste. Of course some objects, from their nature, position,
and use, will admit of greater and more elaborate ornament than others.

Ornament, being entirely subordinate, should not conceal the construction of the object. In
architecture it should follow the leading lines of the building, and should emphasize, or at
least suggest, the construction. If architectural in character, it should so enter into the
construction of the building that it could not be taken away without injuring it.

We must feel that a column, no matter how beautiful, is supporting something. A floor, always
a plane surface, must not be tiled or decorated in any way to express relief. This would apparently
destroy the essential constructive quality of a floor, viz., flatness. For the same reason,
all shams, such as painted arches, pillars, etc., are not legitimate. As long as they do not
actually exist, they are evidently not necessary to the construction, and have no purpose save
an imaginary decorative one, and in the words of Owen Jones, construction must be decorated--not
decoration constructed.

III. Scope of Ornament.--The scope of ornamental art is almost boundless. It is applied to
objects large and small, adapted to the most various uses, constructed of the most different
materials. As the ornamentation is always to be subordinate to the object, considerations regarding
size, use, position, material, etc., must govern it. An ornament that would be admirable applied
to one object, might be detestable if applied to another. A design cannot be made without reference
to its future application.

First: The material must be considered. Heavy and hard materials, such as wood and stone, will
not admit of as delicate curves and lines as textile fabrics, such as cotton and woolen goods,
laces, etc.

Second: The manner in which the article is to be made, whether by weaving, cutting, carving,
casting, etc.

Third: The position the object is to occupy. If elevated or otherwise remote from the eye,
elaborate finish and minute detail are useless. Ornamental art, from time immemorial, has attained
its greatest excellence and exercised its greatest influence in connection with architecture.

In fact, the study of ornament is inseparable from that of architecture. It is upon architectural
forms that the greatest artists have in all ages expended their greatest efforts and skill,
and in a treatise on historic ornament they are decidedly the most interesting and important
object of study.

IV. Material of Ornament.--The two great sources of ornament are geometry and nature. The latter
includes the former; for not only must natural forms, in order to be available as material
for ornament, be first conventionalized, or reduced to regular, symmetrical, geometric outlines,
but any and all designs, whether the unit of repetition be geometric or conventional, must
be founded upon geometric construction. This refers to the regularity, repetition, and distribution
of parts; so that every good design, if reduced to its principal lines of construction, would
exhibit but a few geometric lines and inclosing spaces. Many designs are not only geometric
in their basis or plan, but make use of geometric figures as the units or materials of design.
Such designs, however, rank lower than those in which natural forms conventionalized are taken
as the subjects of repetition; and as the ornament rises in the scale toward perfection, even
the geometric basis becomes less and less apparent, and sinks into a decidedly subordinate
position; so that in many of the most perfect specimens it can be traced only in a few leading
lines of the composition. Its presence, however, is necessary, and is the foundation, if not
the most important element, of beauty in the design.

RELATION BETWEEN NATURE AND ORNAMENTAL ART.

