I have been racketing lately, having dined twice with Rogers, and once with Grant. Lady Holland
is in a most extraordinary state. She came to Rogers's, with Allen, in so bad a humour that
we were all forced to rally, and make common cause against her. There was not a person at table
to whom she was not rude; and none of us were inclined to submit. Rogers sneered; Sydney made
merciless sport of her; Tom Moore looked excessively impertinent; Bobus put her down with simple
straightforward rudeness; and I treated her with what I meant to be the coldest civility. Allen
flew into a rage with us all, and especially with Sydney, whose guffaws, as the Scotch say,
were indeed tremendous. When she and all the rest were gone, Rogers made Tom Moore and me sit
down with him for half an hour, and we coshered over the events of the evening. Rogers said
that he thought Allen's firing up in defence of his patroness the best thing that he has seen
in him. No sooner had Tom and I got into the street than he broke forth: "That such an old
stager as Rogers should talk such nonsense, and give Allen credit for attachment to anything
but his dinner! Allen was bursting with envy to see us so free, while he was conscious of his
own slavery."

Her Ladyship has been the better for this discipline. She has overwhelmed me ever since with
attentions and invitations. I have at last found out the cause of her ill-humour, or at least
of that portion of it of which I was the object. She is in a rage at my article on Walpole,
but at what part of it I cannot tell. I know that she is very intimate with the Waldegraves,
to whom the manuscripts belong, and for whose benefit the letters were published. But my review
was surely not calculated to injure the sale of the book. Lord Holland told me, in an aside,
that he quite agreed with me, but that we had better not discuss the subject.

A note; and, by my life, from my Lady Holland: "Dear Mr. Macaulay, pray wrap yourself very
warm, and come to us on Wednesday." No, my good Lady. I am engaged on Wednesday to dine at
the Albion Tavern with the Directors of the East India Company; now my servants; next week,
I hope, to be my masters.

Ever yours,

T. B. M.

FOOTNOTES:

[122] Indeed it exemplifies Defoe's favourite proverb about "What is bred in the bone," etc.--as
for instance when, while admitting Chesterfield's high position in some ways, he calls the
Letters "for the most part trash." It is scarcely too much to call such criticism itself "trashy."

THOMAS LOVELL BEDDOES (1803-1849)

     Beddoes belongs to the small but remarkable company of
     authors who, making little mark in their own time and none
     at all for some time afterwards, before very long come into
     something like their due, though they never can be exactly
     popular. He was certainly very eccentric and possibly quite
     mad: the circumstances of his suicide do more than justify
     the hopes of charity and the convention of coroners' juries,
     as to the latter conclusion. But he was an extremely
     poetical poet and a letter-writer of remarkable
     individuality and zest. Little notice seems to have been
     taken, by any save a very few elect, of the first collected
     publication of his work just after his death: though a
     single piece, The Bride's Tragedy, not by any means his
     best, had obtained praise in 1822--a time between the great
     poetical outburst of the early nineteenth century and the
     revival of its middle period. But Mr. Gosse's reissue in
     completer form of the Poems in 1890 and the Letters four
     years later, lodged him at once in the affection of all
     competent critics.