

"Charity," said Jack, meekly.

"Your wife was here this morning to get me to go and see some of her friends in Hester Street."

"You went?"

"Not today. It's awfully interesting, but I've been."

"Edith seems to be devoted to that sort of thing," remarked Miss Tavish.

"Yes," said Jack, slowly, "she's got the idea that sympathy is better than money; she says
she wants to try to understand other people's lives."

"Goodness knows, I'd like to understand my own."

"And were you trying, Mr. Delancy, to persuade Miss Tavish into that sort of charity?"

"Oh dear, no," said Jack; "I was trying to interest the East End in something, for the benefit
of Miss Tavish."

"You'll find that's one of the most expensive remarks you ever made," retorted Miss Tavish,
rising to go.

"I wish Lily Tavish would marry," said Mrs. Trafton, watching the girl's slender figure as
it passed through the portiere; "she doesn't know what to do with herself."

Jack shrugged his shoulders. "Yes, she'd be a lovely wife for somebody;" and then he added,
as if reminiscently, "if he could afford it. Good-by."

"That's just a fashion of talking. I never knew a time when so many people afforded to do what
they wanted to do. But you men are all alike. Good-by."

When Jack reached home it was only a little after six o'clock, and as they were not to go out
to dine till eight, he had a good hour to rest from the fatigues of the day, and run over the
evening papers and dip into the foreign periodicals to catch a topic or two for the dinner-table.

"Yes, sir," said the maid, "Mrs. Delancy came in an hour ago."

IV

Edith's day had been as busy as Jack's, notwithstanding she had put aside several things that
demanded her attention. She denied herself the morning attendance on the Literature Class that
was raking over the eighteenth century. This week Swift was to be arraigned. The last time
when Edith was present it was Steele. The judgment, on the whole, had been favorable, and there
had been a little stir of tenderness among the bonnets over Thackeray's comments on the Christian
soldier. It seemed to bring him near to them. "Poor Dick Steele!" said the essayist. Edith
declared afterwards that the large woman who sat next to her, Mrs. Jerry Hollowell, whispered
to her that she always thought his name was Bessemer; but this was, no doubt, a pleasantry.
It was a beautiful essay, and so stimulating! And then there was bouillon, and time to look
about at the toilets. Poor Steele, it would have cheered his life to know that a century after
his death so many beautiful women, so exquisitely dressed, would have been concerning themselves
about him. The function lasted two hours. Edith made a little calculation. In five minutes
she could have got from the encyclopaedia all the facts in the essay, and while her maid was
doing her hair she could have read five times as much of Steele as the essayist read. And,
somehow, she was not stimulated, for the impression seemed to prevail that now Steele was disposed
of. And she had her doubts whether literature would, after all, prove to be a permanent social
distraction. But Edith may have been too severe in her judgment. There was probably not a woman
in the class that day who did not go away with the knowledge that Steele was an author, and
that he lived in the eighteenth century. The hope for the country is in the diffusion of knowledge.

Leaving the class to take care of Swift, Edith went to the managers' meeting at the Women's
Hospital, where there was much to do of very practical work, pitiful cases of women and children
suffering through no fault of their own, and money more difficult to raise than sympathy. The
meeting took time and thought. Dismissing her carriage, and relying on elevated and surface
cars, Edith then took a turn on the East Side, in company with a dispensary physician whose
daily duty called her into the worst parts of the town. She had a habit of these tours before
her marriage, and, though they were discouragingly small in direct results, she gained a knowledge
of city life that was of immense service in her general charity work. Jack had suggested the
danger of these excursions, but she had told him that a woman was less liable to insult in
the East Side than in Fifth Avenue, especially at twilight, not because the East Side was a
nice quarter of the city, but because it was accustomed to see women who minded their own business
go about unattended, and the prowlers had not the habit of going there. She could even relate
cases of chivalrous protection of "ladies" in some of the worst streets.

What Edith saw this day, open to be seen, was not so much sin as ignorance of how to live,
squalor, filthy surroundings acquiesced in as the natural order, wonderful patience in suffering
and deprivation, incapacity, ill-paid labor, the kindest spirit of sympathy and helpfulness
of the poor for each other. Perhaps that which made the deepest impression on her was the fact
that such conditions of living could seem natural to those in them, and that they could get
so much enjoyment of life in situations that would have been simple misery to her.

The visitors were in a foreign city. The shop signs were in foreign tongues; in some streets
all Hebrew. On chance news-stands were displayed newspapers in Russian, Bohemian, Arabic, Italian,
Hebrew, Polish, German-none in English. The theatre bills were in Hebrew or other unreadable
type. The sidewalks and the streets swarmed with noisy dealers in every sort of second-hand
merchandise--vegetables that had seen a better day, fish in shoals. It was not easy to make
one's way through the stands and push-carts and the noisy dickering buyers and sellers, who
haggled over trifles and chaffed good-naturedly and were strictly intent on their own affairs.
No part of the town is more crowded or more industrious. If youth is the hope of the country,
the sight was encouraging, for children were in the gutters, on the house steps, at all the
windows. The houses seemed bursting with humanity, and in nearly every room of the packed tenements,
whether the inmates were sick or hungry, some sort of industry was carried on. In the damp
basements were junk-dealers, rag-pickers, goose-pickers. In one noisome cellar, off an alley,
among those sorting rags, was an old woman of eighty-two, who could reply to questions only
in a jargon, too proud to beg, clinging to life, earning a few cents a day in this foul occupation.
But life is sweet even with poverty and rheumatism and eighty years. Did her dull eyes, turning
inward, see the Carpathian Hills, a free girlhood in village drudgery and village sports, then
a romance of love, children, hard work, discontent, emigration to a New World of promise? And
now a cellar by day, the occupation of cutting rags for carpets, and at night a corner in a
close and crowded room on a flock bed not fit for a dog. And this was a woman's life.

Picturesque foreign women going about with shawls over their heads and usually a bit of bright
color somewhere, children at their games, hawkers loudly crying their stale wares, the click
of sewing-machines heard through a broken window, everywhere animation, life, exchange of rough
or kindly banter. Was it altogether so melancholy as it might seem? Not everybody was hopelessly
poor, for here were lawyers' signs and doctors' signs--doctors in whom the inhabitants had
confidence because they charged all they could get for their services--and thriving pawnbrokers'
shops. There were parish schools also--perhaps others; and off some dark alley, in a room on
the ground-floor, could be heard the strident noise of education going on in high-voiced study
and recitation. Nor were amusements lacking--notices of balls, dancing this evening, and ten-cent
shows in palaces of legerdemain and deformity.

It was a relenting day in March; patches of blue sky overhead, and the sun had some quality
in its shining. The children and the caged birds at the open windows felt it-and there were
notes of music here and there above the traffic and the clamor. Turning down a narrow alley,
with a gutter in the centre, attracted by festive sounds, the visitors came into a small stone-paved
court with a hydrant in the centre surrounded by tall tenement-houses, in the windows of which
were stuffed the garments that would no longer hold together to adorn the person. Here an Italian
girl and boy, with a guitar and violin, were recalling la bella Napoli, and a couple of pretty
girls from the court were footing it as merrily as if it were the grape harvest. A woman opened
a lower room door and sharply called to one of the dancing girls to come in, when Edith and
the doctor appeared at the bottom of the alley, but her tone changed when she recognized the
doctor, and she said, by way of apology, that she didn't like her daughter to dance before
strangers. So the music and the dance went on, even little dots of girls and boys shuffling
about in a stiff-legged fashion, with applause from all the windows, and at last a largesse
of pennies--as many as five altogether--for the musicians. And the sun fell lovingly upon the
pretty scene.

But then there were the sweaters' dens, and the private rooms where half a dozen pale-faced
tailors stitched and pressed fourteen and sometimes sixteen hours a day, stifling rooms, smelling
of the hot goose and steaming cloth, rooms where they worked, where the cooking was done, where
they ate, and late at night, when overpowered with weariness, lay down to sleep. Struggle for
life everywhere, and perhaps no more discontent and heart-burning and certainly less ennui
than in the palaces on the avenues.

The residence of Karl Mulhaus, one of the doctor's patients, was typical of the homes of the
better class of poor. The apartment fronted on a small and not too cleanly court, and was in
the third story. As Edith mounted the narrow and dark stairways she saw the plan of the house.
Four apartments opened upon each landing, in which was the common hydrant and sink. The Mulhaus
apartment consisted of a room large enough to contain a bed, a cook-stove, a bureau, a rocking-chair,
and two other chairs, and it had two small windows, which would have more freely admitted the
southern sun if they had been washed, and a room adjoining, dark, and nearly filled by a big
bed. On the walls of the living room were hung highly colored advertising chromos of steamships
and palaces of industry, and on the bureau Edith noticed two illustrated newspapers of the
last year, a patent-medicine almanac, and a volume of Schiller. The bureau also held Mr. Mulhaus's
bottles of medicine, a comb which needed a dentist, and a broken hair-brush. What gave the
room, however, a cheerful aspect were some pots of plants on the window-ledges, and half a
dozen canary-bird cages hung wherever there was room for them.

None of the family happened to be at home except Mr. Mulhaus, who occupied the rocking-chair,
and two children, a girl of four years and a boy of eight, who were on the floor playing "store"
with some blocks of wood, a few tacks, some lumps of coal, some scraps of paper, and a tangle
of twine. In their prattle they spoke, the English they had learned from their brother who
was in a store.

"I feel some better today," said Mr. Mulhaus, brightening up as the visitors entered, "but
the cough hangs on. It's three months since this weather that I haven't been out, but the birds
are a good deal of company." He spoke in German, and with effort. He was very thin and sallow,
and his large feverish eyes added to the pitiful look of his refined face. The doctor explained
to Edith that he had been getting fair wages in a type-foundry until he had become too weak
to go any longer to the shop.

It was rather hard to have to sit there all day, he explained to the doctor, but they were
getting along. Mrs. Mulhaus had got a job of cleaning that day; that would be fifty cents.
Ally--she was twelve--was learning to sew. That was her afternoon to go to the College Settlement.
Jimmy, fourteen, had got a place in a store, and earned two dollars a week.

"And Vicky?" asked the doctor.

"Oh, Vicky," piped up the eight-year-old boy. "Vicky's up to the 'stution"--the hospital was
probably the institution referred to--"ever so long now. I seen her there, me and Jim did.
Such a bootifer place! 'Nd chicken!" he added. "Sis got hurt by a cart."

Vicky was seventeen, and had been in a fancy store.

"Yes," said Mulhaus, in reply to a question, "it pays pretty well raising canaries, when they
turn out singers. I made fifteen dollars last year. I hain't sold much lately. Seems 's if
people stopped wanting 'em such weather. I guess it 'll be better in the spring."

"No doubt it will be better for the poor fellow himself before spring," said the doctor as
they made their way down the dirty stairways. "Now I'll show you one of my favorites."

They turned into a broader street, one of the busy avenues, and passing under an archway between
two tall buildings, entered a court of back buildings. In the third story back lived Aunt Margaret.
The room was scarcely as big as a ship's cabin, and its one window gave little light, for it
opened upon a narrow well of high brick walls. In the only chair Aunt Margaret was seated close
to the window. In front of her was a small work-table, with a kerosene lamp on it, but the
side of the room towards which she looked was quite occupied by a narrow couch--ridiculously
narrow, for Aunt Margaret was very stout. There was a thin chest of drawers on the other side,
and the small coal stove that stood in the centre so nearly filled the remaining space that
the two visitors were one too many.

"Oh, come in, come in," said the old lady, cheerfully, when the door opened. "I'm glad to see you."

"And how goes it?" asked the doctor.

"First rate. I'm coming on, doctor. Work's been pretty slack for two weeks now, but yesterday
I got work for two days. I guess it will be better now."

The work was finishing pantaloons. It used to be a good business before there was so much cutting
in.

"I used to get fifteen cents a pair, then ten; now they don't pay but five. Yes, the shop furnishes
the thread."

"And how many pairs can you finish in a day?" asked Edith.

"Three--three pairs, to do 'em nice--and they are very particular--if I work from six in the
morning till twelve at night. I could do more, but my sight ain't what it used to be, and I've
broken my specs."

"So you earn fifteen cents a day?"

"When I've the luck to get work, my lady. Sometimes there isn't any. And things cost so much.
The rent is the worst."

It appeared that the rent was two dollars and a half a month. That must be paid, at any rate.
Edith made a little calculation that on a flush average of ninety cents a week earned, and
allowing so many cents for coal and so many cents for oil, the margin for bread and tea must
be small for the month. She usually bought three cents' worth of tea at a time.

"It is kinder close," said the old lady, with a smile. "The worst is, my feet hurt me so I
can't stir out. But the neighbors is real kind. The little boy next room goes over to the shop
and fetches my pantaloons and takes 'em back. I can get along if it don't come slack again."

Sitting all day by that dim window, half the night stitching by a kerosene lamp; lying for
six hours on that narrow couch! How to account for this old soul's Christian resignation and
cheerfulness! "For," said the doctor, "she has seen better days; she has moved in high society;
her husband, who died twenty years ago, was a policeman. What the old lady is doing is fighting
for her independence. She has only one fear--the almshouse."

It was with such scenes as these in her eyes that Edith went to her dressing-room to make her
toilet for the Henderson dinner.

V

It was the first time they had dined with the Hendersons. It was Jack's doings. "Certainly,
if you wish it," Edith had said when the invitation came. The unmentioned fact was that Jack
had taken a little flier in Oshkosh, and a hint from Henderson one evening at the Union, when
the venture looked squally, had let him out of a heavy loss into a small profit, and Jack felt
grateful.

"I wonder how Henderson came to do it?" Jack was querying, as he and old Fairfax sipped their
five-o'clock "Manhattan."

"Oh, Henderson likes to do a good-natured thing still, now and then. Do you know his wife?"

"No. Who was she?"

"Why, old Eschelle's daughter, Carmen; of course you wouldn't know; that was ten years ago.
There was a good deal of talk about it at the time."

"How?"

"Some said they'd been good friends before Mrs. Henderson's death."

"Then Carmen, as you call her, wasn't the first?"

"No, but she was an easy second. She's a social climber; bound to get there from the start."

"Is she pretty?"

"Devilish. She's a little thing. I saw her once at Homburg, on the promenade with her mother.

"The kind of sweet blonde, I said to myself, that would mix a man up in a duel before he knew
where he was."

"She must be interesting."

"She was always clever, and she knows enough to play a straight game and when to propitiate.
I'll bet a five she tells Henderson whom to be good to when the chance offers."

"Then her influence on him is good?"

"My dear sir, she gets what she wants, and Henderson is going to the... well, look at the lines
in his face. I've known Henderson since he came fresh into the Street. He'd rarely knife a
friend when his first wife was living. Now, when you see the old frank smile on his face, it's
put on."

It was half-past eight when Mr. Henderson with Mrs. Delancy on his arm led the way to the diningroom.
The procession was closed by Mrs. Henderson and Mr. Delancy. The Van Dams were there, and Mrs.
Chesney and the Chesney girls, and Miss Tavish, who sat on Jack's right, but the rest of the
guests were unknown to Jack, except by name. There was a strong dash of the Street in the mixture,
and although the Street was tabooed in the talk, there was such an emanation of aggressive
prosperity at the table that Jack said afterwards that he felt as if he had been at a meeting
of the board.

