Astronomers have given good proof of activity during the present year, by the discovery of
four new planets and one new comet--two of them by Mr Hind, who has now the merit of having
discovered half a dozen of these minor members of our planetary system. Fifty years ago, such
an achievement would have made an exalted reputation; but in these days of keen enterprise
in science, as well as in commerce, we do not think much of finding such little worlds as those
in question. If nothing short of the marvellous is to satisfy us, who shall say that even this
will not present itself to the far-piercing ken of the new monster telescope--refracting, not
reflecting--established on Wandsworth Common, at the cost of an amateur astronomer, for the
promotion of the celestial science? Lord Rosse has now a competitor; and with a tube of eighty
feet in length, and the power of looking direct at the distant object, may we not hope to hear
of great discoveries by means of the new instrument? Photographers will be able to obtain what
has long been a desideratum--a large image of the moon; and the sun will doubtless have to
reveal a few more secrets concerning his physical constitution, to say nothing of the remote
and mysterious nebulæ. Apropos of the sun, Father Secchi, of the observatory at Rome, has been
questioning the great luminary with philosophical apparatus, to ascertain whether any difference
could be detected in the heat from different parts of its surface, and the proportion lost
in its passage through the atmosphere. He finds that the equatorial region is the hottest;
and that, as on our earth, the temperature diminishes towards the poles: it is in the central
region that spots most frequently appear. The result of the investigations is that, after allowing
for absorption, the heat which comes to the earth corresponds in amount to that inferred from
photometric experiments, whereby the experiments made at Paris and at Rome confirm each other.

Now that Mr Fox Talbot has so praiseworthily given up his patent right to Talbotypes, except
in the matter of portraits, the art of photography will find itself stimulated to yet further
developments; and with free practice, many new applications of it will be discovered. Magic-lantern
slides, for instance, obtained from the negative image, are already lowered in price, while
their style and finish are singularly beautiful. The architect of the bridge now being built
over the Neva, at St Petersburg, is turning it to account in a very practical manner. Being
an Englishman, he has had to endure much jealousy and misrepresentation, and attempts have
been made to prejudice the authorities against him. To counteract these designs, he takes every
week photographs of the work, which distinctly shew its progress, and these he sends to the
emperor, who looks at them in a stereoscope of the largest size, and can thus satisfy himself
of the actual condition of the bridge by means which malice or envy would not easily falsify.
If the photograph shews finished arches, of what use will it be to deny their existence? People
out of Russia may perhaps find it worth while to try the same experiment; and before long,
a new order of 'detectives' on elevated stations, will be taking photographs of all that passes
in the streets, and pickpockets in delicto will find their offence and their likeness imprinted
by one and the same process. With such a means of detection, and all the police stations connected
by telegraphic wires, what are the thieves to do?

Manchester shews itself earnest in the cause of education, by having established a Free Library
of 16,000 volumes for reference, and 5000 for lending, and paid for it by voluntary subscription--L.800
of which was contributed by 20,000 of the working-classes. To their honour be it recorded!
But the inhabitants have done yet more; they have made over the library to the town-council,
that it may become one of their public institutions, and have agreed to pay a half-penny rate
to provide the necessary funds for its perpetual maintenance. May they have their reward!

Considering that educational reform or renovation may erelong be looked for at Oxford, in accordance
with the recommendations of the University Commission, it behoves other parts of the kingdom
to be fully awake to the importance of the subject. 'There is a spreading conviction, that
man was made for a higher purpose than to be a beast of burden, or a creature of sense;' and
it will not do to stifle this conviction. Comprehensive endeavours must be made to educate
and enlighten; to touch the heart as well as to train the intellect. And it must not be forgotten,
that education involves very much besides mere book-learning--the mechanical duties, namely,
of everyday life. Something of the latter is to be tried in the City Hospice and Soup-kitchen
just opened near the foot of Holborn Hill. Though fitted up in an old house, it is a training
institute of a new kind, where individuals of both sexes will acquire useful knowledge in a
practical way, best explained by a passage from the report of the opening:

'In one portion of the educational department is an ironing-table, provided with the necessary
utensils, for the purpose of instructing the women and girls in that necessary portion of domestic
science, from the finest description of work down to the very coarsest. Adjoining this is a
table laid out en famille; this also being considered, and justly so, no unimportant branch
of knowledge. In another portion is a table prepared for a large party: every variety of glass
likely to be required being properly placed, and every napkin being differently folded, so
as to enable the ambitious neophyte to suit the taste of all mistresses. Beyond this is a small
closet, with a window resembling those of an ordinary-sized house; and this the men and women
are both taught to clean, while the closet itself serves as a cover for the simple operation
of polishing boots and shoes. To this succeeds a table, upon which are placed the utensils
for cleaning plate, and on another table the instruments for cleaning lamps.' Such an establishment
ought to prosper; and perhaps this one will, if the giving away of soup for nothing, which
is another part of its functions, does not kill it. There seems something incongruous in encouraging
industry and self-reliance with one hand, and helplessness with the other.

On the whole, it must be admitted that we are making progress, and those who think so, may
very properly talk about it. Among a large number, the Crystal Palace becomes daily a greater
subject of importance. Soon the last portions of the famous structure will be removed from
Hyde Park, to rise in renewed beauty on the hill-slope at Sydenham; where the restored edifice
is to become a permanent object of interest, far transcending all previous achievements in
the way of exhibitions.

Of foreign matters which have attracted attention, there is the remarkable fall of grain, not
rain, in Belgium, a few weeks since, of a kind altogether unknown in that country. Some of
it has been sown, with a view to judge of it by the plant; meanwhile, the learned are speculating
as to its origin. The Dutch, pursuing their steady course of reclamation, have just added some
hundreds of acres to their territory on the borders of the Scheldt; and it is said that the
grand enterprise of draining the Haarlemmer-Meer is at last completed, there being nothing
now left but a small running stream across the lowest part of the basin. The quantity pumped
away in the last eight months of 1851, averaged a little over three inches per month, a small
amount, apparently; but when it is known, that lowering the lake one inch only took away four
million tons of water, we may form a fair idea of the importance of the work, and of the quantity
lifted in the eight months. The depth at the beginning of this year was three feet eight inches,
and this is now discharged. To have carried such a work to a successful issue, may be ranked
among the greatest of engineering triumphs.

To turn to another part of the world: there is something interesting from the Sandwich Islands.
The king wishes to assimilate his government to that of England, to guard against the casualty
of a coup d'état, and a small military force has been organised for defence. The Report of
the Minister of the Interior states, that 130 persons had taken the oath of allegiance within
the year, of whom 66 were citizens of the United States; 31 British; 15 Chinese; and 18 of
other countries. The foreign letters received and sent numbered 24,787--more than half to the
United States; besides which 31,050 domestic letters were transmitted among the group of islands.
There are 535 free-schools, of which 431 are Protestant, with 12,976 scholars, and 104 Roman
Catholic, with 2056 scholars. There were 1171 marriages; and the population returns shew that
the number of natives is still slowly on the decrease, the births among them having been 2424,
while the deaths were 5792.

ADVENTURES OF A YORKSHIRE GROOM.

