  Labour, you would be free to fix your wages;
    Capital, you'd be free to pick your men:
  Love of free Union the one's tongue engages,
    Love of free "Knobsticks" fires the other's pen;
  But love of Freedom for her own fair self,--
  How much of it moves Poverty or Pelf?

  Eight hours in the dark coal-seam, good friend Labour,
    Humanity admits more than enough.
  But fix it so, whilst neighbour wars' with neighbour,
    And mine with mine about it? Task too tough,
  Too desperate dilemma, for a Statesman,
  Why you can't settle it with your own mates, man!

  Capital, does your passion for Toil's Freedom
    Mean much more than desire to smash Toil's Union?
  He sells his birthright for the mess of Edom,
    The "Blackleg" ESAU selling Work's communion
  Into the bonds of Wealth, well knit and strong,
  His comrades say. Are they entirely wrong?

  Thus Individual Freedom suffers scath
    On all sides. Can you plead Necessity's fiat?
  For me you boast your love, proclaim your faith,
    But, battered by the missiles you let fly at
  Each other, I with ROLAND, cry in shame,
  What tyrannous things are done in Freedom's name!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FALBULOUS!

DR. FALB, of Vienna, knows when earthquakes and eruptions are going to occur. Mr. MORLEY said,
the other day, in the House of Commons, that the best way of treating a prophet was not to
believe him; but this is rather difficult when the prophet happens to be right, as Dr. FALB
generally is. For example, he predicted the last terrible earthquake at Zante, which only came
one day before it was due. Dr. FALB has been interviewed about how he does it,--or perhaps
it would be more appropriate to say, that he has been subjected to some mild "Heckling"--and
he appears to hold that it is the action of the Moon on the tides which is responsible. In
support of his theory it has been noticed that it is quite a custom of the people at Zante,
after their houses have fallen in on their heads, to observe--"That was a tidy shock!" These
predictions should help them to tide over the periods of danger.

       *       *       *       *       *

COURT OUT!

What is an "Original Farcical Romance"? The immediate reply is that The Amazons, by Mr. PINERO,
is a specimen of the genus. To see The Amazons ought to supply the terms of the required definition.
I have seen it, and yet the definition does not satisfy me. "Original"! Well--more or less;
but to use old materials in a novel manner is quite enough for originality. The girl brought
up as a boy is not absolutely new or original, vide Tom Noddy's Secret, and multiply the heroine
of that farce by three. The three men hunting after the three girls and obtaining access to
them at school--substituting, in this case, home for school, and a mother for a school-mistress--is
not absolutely new or original; but, again, what matters this to anyone, so long as the new
shape given to the old material is genuinely amusing? So "farcical" goes with "original." But
now, as to its being a "Romance?" Would not the term "burlesque" be a better term than "Farcical
Romance?" The characters of the three adventurous lovers are not less burlesque than were those
of the three Knights in ALBERT SMITH'S romantic Extravaganza, The Alhambra, played then by
ALFRED WIGAN, and Mr. and Mrs. KEELEY. So if I may take it that "Farcical Romance" is only
a way out of describing the piece as "burlesque," then I know how to class it, and what to
expect. Now I must own that my puzzlement is due to my own fault, for it so chanced that I
did not look at the author's description of his play until after leaving the theatre. I thought
I was seeing something that was intended to be as broad a farce as Bébé, alias Betsy, but I
soon found that, whatever it might be, it wasn't this. It is capitally acted by all, but especially,
on "the Spear Side," by Mr. WEEDON GROSSMITH and F. KERR, the former as an effeminate Earl,
and the latter as a manly Viscount. But, even from a burlesque point of view, Mr. ELLIOT overdoes
the Frenchman, a part which belongs to a stage-family of Frenchmen, of which, in former times,
ALFRED WIGAN was the best representative; and, later, Mons. MARIUS, who, as the French sporting
nobleman, in Family Ties, in love with an English "Mees," and so proud of his English slang,
was simply the character to the life, without any more exaggeration than was artistically necessary.
On "the Spindle Side," Miss LILY HANBURY looks handsome, and is generally fairly well-suited;
Miss PATTIE BROWNE has the most difficult part of the three, and it is not to be wondered at
if she a bit out-tommies Tommy. Miss ELLALINE TERRIS looks, acts, and sings charmingly as Lady
Wilhelmina, and Miss CALDWELL gives a good touch of low comedy to "the Sergeant."

The places where the fun comes in, as it does occasionally, and is therefore the more precious,
are chiefly with WEEDON GROSSMITH, and in the scenes between Mr. F. KERR and Miss HANBURY.
The piece is not up to the former "screamers," such as Dandy Dick, The Magistrate, and My Aunt,
or whatever was the title of the farce in which Mr. WEEDON GROSSMITH played the part of Mrs.
JOHN WOOD'S solicitor. The scenery by Mr. HALL is Hall good, specially the woodland scene in
Overcote Park.

       *       *       *       *       *

"MUCH ADO ABOUT NIL."--Were the Temporal Power in existence, the LORD MAYOR, in proposing the
toast of the POPE before that of the QUEEN, would have been guilty of a blunder, and we all
know, on TALLEYRAND'S authority, how far worse is a blunder than a crime. But the POPE, being
no longer "two single gentlemen rolled into one," but simply, as it might be set down in a
Play-bill of Dramatis Personæ, "First Bishop," and also by his own style and title, "Servus
Servorum," the health of His Holiness (which is uncommonly good) might, in British Dominions,
be introduced after that of the QUEEN and Royal Family, and could be fitted into Church and
State as neatly as possible, that is, where such a toast is a necessity of the entertainment.
But the stupidity of the incident has been surpassed by the idiocy of the notice taken of it,
and, for the sake of the common sense of the Common Council, it is to be hoped that a large
majority will be on the side of Alderman and Sheriff RENALS, and refuse to toast the LORD MAYOR
on the Gridiron of LAWRENCE.

       *       *       *       *       *

DRURY LANE OPERA RECORD.--Bohemian Girl going strong, Cavalleria Rusticana still the attraction.
"Happy Thought" (vide DRURIOLANUS'S Diary)--"Revive La Juive." Done it! and done it well. GIANNINI,
as Eleazaro, excellent. Rachele not up to RACHEL in acting (for those who may remember that
tragédienne), but Mlle. GHERLSEN, representing the Jew's daughter, does what the great RACHEL
could not do, that is, sing. La Juive will be given during the Covent Garden season; so these
performances may be considered as very superior rehearsals. Carmen on Thursday, instead of
Il Trovatore.--the Trovatore being Il, couldn't appear. With all due sympathy and respect for
Trovatore, Carmen was gratefully received. Signor PIGNALOSA, as the Toréador, very good, and
obtained his encore; so this Toréador was "contento." Mlle. GUERCIA was a fascinating Carmen,
and what is any Carmen if not fascinating?

       *       *       *       *       *

TAKEN IN, BUT NOT DONE FOR.

(Overflow Letters, probably originally intended for a Contemporary.)

SIR,--No doubt you have seen in the papers recently a number of letters, giving accounts of
the stoppage of cabs by well-dressed young men, who, after heartily greeting the occupants,
have asked for the loan of a sovereign. The other day something of the same sort occurred to
me. I got into an omnibus, when a man, purporting to be a Conductor, asked me for my fare.
I replied that I would pay him later on. He then proceeded to mount to the roof, apparently
to collect other money, when I quickly descended. I firmly believe that, had I not acted promptly,
I should have been defrauded of three-pence. Believe me, yours, &c.,

VIGILANT.

SIR,--I think you should know the last dodge. I was walking home from a rather heavy dinner
the other evening, when I came across a man exactly like myself. He might have been my twin
brother. He didn't say anything, but put out his hand towards me as if asking for alms. Of
course I refused, as I could see that the man was drunk. A little later I was escorted home
by a policeman. The next morning, when I got to the spot where I had been accosted by this
silently-begging stranger, I found a looking-glass. The police say they have the matter in
hand, but they do not see much prospect of finding the original.--T. O'BACCUS.

SIR,--As a warning to the less wary, I beg to send you the following particulars:--A short
time ago I met at a Charity Banquet an Alderman who was apparently a most excellent gentleman;
and I lay a stress upon this fact to show how deceptive are appearances. After the speeches,
my City friend said he would like to subscribe to the benefaction. He asked me if I had change
for a five-pound note. I replied I had only four pounds. He said that that would do, and that
I could forward him the additional sovereign at my leisure. I then handed over the quartette
of golden coins in exchange for his bank-note. Immediately afterwards I quitted the apartment
to ascertain if the note was genuine. I have not seen the Alderman since. I may add that although
I believe the draft a forgery, I have received its full alleged value from the Bank of England.

CAUTION.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TWO HENRIES.--Congratulations to Sir HENRY ISAACS. The other Sir HENRY, which his name
is HAWKINS, the Judge, observed that he had "a conviction that the case against Sir H. ISAACS
ought not to go to a jury." Accompanied by a score of his merry Councilmen, arrayed in scarlet
cloaks trimmed with costly furs. Made ordinary Members in black coats feel very small. T. D.
SULLIVAN, the Bard of Erin, long known at Westminster, is also Member of Dublin Corporation.
Brought over his scarlet robes; took his seat within the Bar; other Members of Corporation,
of course, kept outside sacred precincts. Some little disturbance at door when LORD MAYOR arrived
in procession, preceded by Mace, and accompanied by Sword-Bearer. These wanted to enter House,
and support his Lordship as he stood at Bar in alien assembly.

"You enter only across my body," said the Serjeant-at-Arms, lightly, but firmly, touching the
hilt of his terrible brand.

A moment's awful pause. The sword brought over from Ireland would, in weight and cubic capacity,
have made ten of the rapier to which ERSKINE of Cardross had significantly called attention.
When, later, it peacefully rested behind doorkeeper's chair, its mighty hilt rose above topmost
height like the cross on a cathedral spire. Sword-Bearer looked at LORD MAYOR; Mace-Bearer
grasped with both hands shaft of his ponderous weapon. Both warriors accustomed to public meetings
in Dublin; knew what was expected of them by way of argument. LORD MAYOR happily in placable
mood. Readjusting around his neck the collar of gold (the very one "MALACHI won from the proud
Invader"), he bowed his head; Mace and Sword were deposited behind doorkeeper's chair, and
his Lordship strode in, escorted by the crimson-gowned, fur-betrimmed City Fathers.

LORD MAYOR, supported on either side by a stately Alderman, stood at Bar holding what at first
sight looked like a shillelagh.

"What have you there, my LORD MAYOR OF DUBLIN?" asked the SPEAKER, in tones so stern they made
the sword rattle in the scabbard on the other side of the closed door.

Nothing escapes SPEAKER'S Eye when he pleases to bring it to bear on a particular focus. Had
seen the implement in LORD MAYOR'S hand; insisted upon knowing all about it before proceedings
went further. Turned out to be nothing more dangerous than petition from Corporation of Dublin
in favour of Home-Rule Bill. SPEAKER, instantly mollified, allowed it to be read; after which
LORD MAYOR, bowing, retired; Mace and Sword found all right, and possession resumed. As the
thin red streak filed out of doorway, T. D. S. still lingering in seat by Cross Benches, said,
as he looked admiringly upon the befurred crimson robes. "Reminds me, TOBY, of a line from
GOLDSMITH. You remember it in The Deserted Village?

    'With blossom'd furze, unprofitably gay.'"

Business done.--Eighth Night Debate on Home-Rule Bill.

Tuesday.--Found VICARY GIBBS (well-known firm, SONS AND ANTONY GIBBS, of the City and the Universe)
rather in dumps to-night. Been a burglar at family mansion in Regent's Park; the Firm at dinner;
SONS standing a little meal for ANTONY; burglar took opportunity of entering by bedroom window,
first observing precaution of screwing up doors, and other entrances and exits, so that he
might pursue his vocation with that certainty of non-disturbance upon which all well-bred burglars
insist. Loot considerable, Providence blessing the burglar with tea-pots and spoons to extent
that would have excited envy in heart of HANS BREITMANN.

"Well, cheer up," I said to young VICARY; "awkward, of course, to lose this property; some
of it, probably, heirlooms; at least, there was no bloodshed. You should be thankful for that."

"Not at all," said VICARY, the light of Ulster battle ditches flaming in his eyes. "I should
like to have shed some myself. But it isn't that, nor is it the material jewels whose disappearance
I lament. They are things that are bought and sold; they may be replaced. Fact is, old friend"
(hate to see a strong young man sobbing), "there was more than that."

"I didn't see anything else mentioned in the papers," I remarked.

"No; we resolved to bear our burden among ourselves. I don't mind telling you, that beside
the brooches, bracelets, chains, rings, and other things of that sort, the fellows stole the
notes I had made for speech on Home-Rule Bill. Been here night after night since debate opened,
sitting patiently waiting to catch SPEAKER'S eye. Have given up my dinner and other evening
delights; night after night SPEAKER has passed me over. I waited on; everything has its compensation;
the enforced delay proved invaluable, as supplying opportunity for improving original draft
of speech. As I sat and listened, great thoughts surged through my mind; happy illustrations
flashed upon me; irresistible arguments were slowly moulded. Jotted 'em all down. Notes getting,
perhaps, a little long; couldn't have managed to work them off in less than two hours; but
House would, I know, have suffered gladly for that time, or even longer. An audience that has
survived two hours of ASMEAD BARTLETT (Knight) is not disposed to mince matters. Last night
resolved to get it over: told PRINCE ARTHUR to tell AKERS-DOUGLAS to arrange with SPEAKER to
call me as near ten o'clock as possible. Went home for slight repast; placed notes of speech
on dressing-table; thought with passing pleasure of the policeman we have kept these thirty
years perambulating St. Dunstan's in view of possible burglar, and went to dinner. When I tripped
upstairs, meaning to go down to House, found notes gone, and, incidentally, £2000 worth of
jewellery. I won't disguise from you, TOBY old man, my private conviction that the whole thing
was a plant. Mr. GLADSTONE'S at the bottom of it!"

Business done.--Ninth Night Debate on Home-Rule Bill.

Thursday.--SEXTON made five speeches to-night, each sufficient of itself to lay foundation
of parliamentary reputation. Had he spread them over the Session, or even distributed them
throughout a month, would have scored great success. Unhappily worked them all off at single
sitting, without other interval than succession of long pauses, arbitrarily introduced. Fancy
he felt he must do something to maintain ancient reputation. GRANDOLPH and JOHN MORLEY spoke
for two hours each, whilst few, having caught SPEAKER'S eye, let go under ninety minutes. SEXTON
must needs beat record; did it, talking for two hours and half by Westminster clock! Had an
hour and a half served, speech would have been worthy to rank with those of ASQUITH, JOHN REDMOND,
and DAVITT. As it is, case one of oratorial suicide. CARSON followed; quite moderate in comparison.
Spoke for little over an hour. When he sat down, it was after eight o'clock; more that one-half
of possible length of sitting exhausted; only two Members taken part in Debate.

"Debate d'ye call it," said LORD MORRIS, looking on from the Peer's Gallery. "It's preaching
rather--pragmatical prosing, the death of useful Parliamentary discussion."

House left in almost comatose state. Someone faintly moved Count; MARJORIEBANKS, who had not
suffered the four hours' talk, and who, by comparison with rest, seemed supernaturally active,
managed to bring in what was left of forty Members, and conversation drowsily proceeded to
appointed hour of closing. Business done.--Eleventh Night.

Scheherazade. "And so, my Lord, he drew his scimitar, and was about to---- But excuse me, Sultan,
I observe, through the oriel window, something that looks remarkably like the streak of dawn,
and, if you don't mind, I'll continue the story to-morrow night."

Schahriah, Sultan of Persia. "Thank you, no my dear, I have some dim recollection that, in
a former state, this sort of thing went on for a Thousand and One Nights, ending in the most
agreeable manner to the principal personages concerned. But that, you will admit, was in other
circumstances. The world, and we, were younger then. Eleven nights of this is enough for me,
and, if you would be so good as to step into the next room, I will give instructions for your
being--excuse this yawn--bowstrung."

(Extracted from "The Newest Arabian Nights.")

Saturday, 1.15 A.M.--Members streaming back from Division Lobby; Mr. G. down on stroke of One
o'clock: splendid speech--a mental and physical miracle; for little over an hour he entranced
an audience still suffering from two hours of HENRY JAMES, throughout which the eminent jurist
sank below lowest level hitherto known of his Parliamentary capacity. PRINCE ARTHUR at his
best; in brisk fighting mood, hitting out right and left; stirring TIM HEALY'S soul with surging
desire to get up and reply. No opportunity so TIM snapped at him across Gangway, PRINCE ARTHUR
cutting back with ever-smiling face. When, just now Mr. G. walked in from Division Lobby, Liberals
and Irish Members leaped to their feet, welcoming him with waving hats, and strident cheers.
A moving scene, introducing announcement that, in House of 651 Members, every absentee accounted
for, Ministerial majority ran up to 43. Business done.--Home-Rule Bill read Second Time.