British justice, however, has held at all times the question of human liberty to be superior
to considerations of mere expediency. If the question be, who gains or loses most, there never
can be a doubt that the man whose freedom has been reft from him has the greatest of all claims
for indulgence. Accordingly, Lord Mansfield, the presiding judge, looking in the face all the
threatened evils to property, held that nothing but absolute law could trench on personal freedom.
He used on the occasion a Latin expression, to the effect that justice must be done at whatever
cost; it has found its way into use as a classical expression, and as no one has been able
to find it in any Latin author, it is supposed to have been of Lord Mansfield's own coining.
'Mr Stewart,' he said, 'advances no claims on contract; he rests his whole demand on a right
to the negro as slave, and mentions the purpose of detainure of him to be the sending him over
to be sold in Jamaica. The right claimed in this case, however, was not of so offensive a nature.
The master did not claim the power of seizing the negro as his property. He maintained, however,
that their mutual position gave him a right to claim the negro's services, as if he had engaged
himself as a servant for life. Mr Wedderburn had bought in Jamaica a negro named Knight, about
twelve years old. He came to Scotland as Mr Wedderburn's personal servant, married in the country,
and for some years seemed contented with his position. Probably at the suggestion of some one
who wished to try the question, as it had been tried in England, Knight went off, avowing his
intention of being free. Mr Wedderburn applied to a justice of peace, who at once issued a
warrant for the negro's apprehension. The matter, however, came before the sheriff, a professional
judge, who decided that the colonial laws of slavery do not extend to Scotland, and that personal
service for life is just another term for slavery. After a tedious litigation, this view was
affirmed by the Court of Session, and the negro was declared free. The case acquired notice
from the interest taken in it by Dr Johnson, and the frequent mention of it in Boswell's well-known
work.

THE OLD HOUSEKEEPER'S TALE.

After my good and excellent mistress, Mrs Dacre, departed this life for a better, it seemed
as if nothing ever prospered in the family, whom I had the honour of serving in the capacity
of confidential housekeeper. Mr Dacre became morose and careless of his affairs; his sons were
a source of great misery to him, pursuing a course of reckless extravagance and heartless dissipation;
while the five young ladies--the youngest of whom, however, had attained the age of twenty-four--cared
for little else than dress, and visiting, and empty show. These five young ladies had not amiable
dispositions or gentle manners; but they were first-rate horsewomen, laughed and talked very
loud, and were pronounced fine dashing women. There was another member of the family, an orphan
niece of my master's, who had greatly profited by my lamented lady's teaching and companionship.
Miss Marion had devoted herself to the sick-room with even more than a daughter's love; and
for two years she had watched beside the patient sufferer, when her more volatile and thoughtless
cousins refused to credit the approach of death. Miss Marion had just entered her twentieth
year; life had not been all summer with her; for she remembered scenes of privation and distress,
ere the decease of her parents left her, their only child, to the care of affluent relatives.
She was a serious and meek, but affectionate creature; of a most goodly countenance and graceful
carriage; and I used sometimes to think that the Misses Dacre were jealous of the admiration
she excited, and kept her in the background as much as possible. It was not difficult to do
this, for Miss Marion sought and loved retirement. After Mrs Dacre's decease, she had expressed
an urgent wish to earn her bread by filling the situation of a governess. But the pride of
the Dacres revolted at this; besides, Miss Marion was a comfort to her uncle, when his daughters
were absent or occupied. So the dear young lady gave up her own wishes, and strove to do all
she could for her generous benefactor, as she was wont to call my master.

Circumstances, which it were needless to detail, except to say that, although I had served
one mistress satisfactorily, I found it impossible to serve five, determined me to resign the
situation I had creditably filled for so many years. I deeply grieved to leave my beloved Miss
Marion; and she, sweet, humble soul, on her part, yearned towards me, and wept a farewell on
my bosom. I betook myself, in the first instance, to my brother Thomas Wesley and his wife--a
worthy couple without children, renting a small farm nearly a hundred miles off. A very pleasant,
small farm it was, situated in a picturesque valley, through which tumbled and foamed a limpid
hill-stream, washing the roots of fine old trees, and playing all sorts of antics. This valley
was a resort of quiet anglers, and also of artists during the summer season; and Thomas and
Martha Wesley often let a neat parlour and adjoining bedroom to such respectable, steady people
as did not object to observe the primitive hours and customs enforced at Fairdown Farm. Here
I enjoyed the privilege of writing to, and hearing from, my dear Miss Marion; and though she
never complained, or suffered a murmur to escape her, yet from the tenor of her letters I had
great cause to fear things were all going very wrong at Mr Dacre's, and that her own health,
always delicate, was giving way beneath the pressure of anxiety and unkindness.

In less than six months after I had quitted the family, a climax, which I had long anticipated
with dread, actually arrived. Mr Dacre, suddenly called to his account, was found to have left
his temporal affairs involved in inextricable and hopeless ruin; and amid the general crash
and desolation, who was to shield or befriend the poor dependent, the orphan niece, Miss Marion?
She was rudely cast adrift on the cold world; her proffered sympathy and services tauntingly
rejected by those who had now a hard battle to fight on their own account. Broken down in health
and spirits, the poor young lady flew to me, her humble, early friend, gratefully and eagerly
availing herself of Thomas Wesley's cordial invitation, to make his house her home for the present.

My brother was a kind-hearted, just man; he had once been to see me when I lived at Mr Dacre's;
and that gentleman, in his palmy days, was truly hospitable and generous to all comers. Thomas
never forgot his reception, and now he was a proud and happy man to be enabled thus to offer
'a slight return,' as he modestly said, to one of the family. With much concern we all viewed
Miss Marion's wan and careworn looks, so touching in the young; 'But her dim blue een will
get bright again, and she'll fill out--never fear,' said Martha Wesley to me, by way of comfort
and encouragement, 'now we've got her amongst us, poor dear. I doubt those proud Misses Dacre
were not over-tender with such a one as sweet Miss Marion'----

'Dame, dame, don't let that tongue of thine wag so fast,' interrupted Thomas, for he never
liked to hear people ill spoken of behind their backs, though he would speak out plainly enough
to everybody's face.

