#5. The Second Fleet.#--The prospects of the colony at Sydney had grown very black, when a
store-ship suddenly appeared off the Heads. Great was the rejoicing at first; but when a storm
arose and drove the vessel northward among the reefs of Broken Bay, their exultation was changed
to a painful suspense. For some hours her fate was doubtful; but, to the intense relief of
the expectant people on shore, she managed to make the port and land her supplies. Shortly
after, two other store-ships arrived, and the community was never again so badly in want of
provisions. Matters were growing cheerful, when a fresh gloom was caused by the arrival of
a fleet filled to overflowing with sick and dying convicts. Seventeen hundred had been embarked,
but of these two hundred had died on the way, and their bodies had been thrown overboard. Several
hundreds were in the last stages of emaciation and exhaustion; scarcely one of the whole fifteen
hundred who landed was fit for a day's work. This brought fresh misery and trouble, and the
deaths were of appalling frequency.

#6. Escape of Prisoners.#--Many of the convicts sought to escape from their sufferings by running
away; some seized the boats in the harbour and tried to sail for the Dutch colony in Java;
others hid themselves in the woods, and either perished or else returned, after weeks of starvation,
to give themselves up to the authorities. In 1791 a band of between forty and fifty set out
to walk to China, and penetrated a few miles into the bush, where their bleached and whitened
skeletons some years after told their fate.

#7. Departure of Governor Phillip.#--Amid these cares and trials the health of Governor Phillip
fairly broke down, and, in 1792, forced him to resign. He was a man of energy and decision;
prompt and skilful, yet humane and just in his character; his face, though pinched and pale
with ill-health, had a sweet and benevolent expression; no better man could have been selected
to fill the difficult position he held with so much credit to himself. He received a handsome
pension from the British Government, and retired to spend his life in English society. Major
Grose and Captain Patterson took charge of the colony for the next three years; but in 1795
Captain Hunter, who, after the loss of his ship, the Sirius, had returned to England, arrived
in Sydney to occupy the position of Governor.

#8. Governor Hunter.#--By this time affairs had passed their crisis, and were beginning to
be favourable. About sixty convicts, whose sentences had expired, had received grants of land,
and, now that they were working for themselves, had become successful farmers. Governor Hunter
brought out a number of free settlers, to whom he gave land near the Hawkesbury; and, after
a time, more than six thousand acres were covered with crops of wheat and maize. There was
now no fear of famine, and the settlement grew to be comfortable in most respects. Unfortunately,
the more recent attempts to import cattle with which to stock the farms had proved more or
less unsuccessful; so that the discovery of a fine herd of sixty wandering through the meadows
of the Hawkesbury was hailed with great delight. These were the descendants of the cattle which
had been lost from Governor Phillip's herd some years before.

#9. State of the Settlement.#--Twelve years after the foundation of the colony, its population
amounted to between six and seven thousand persons. These were all settled near Sydney, which
was a straggling town with one main street 200 feet wide, running up the valley from Sydney
Cove, while on the slopes at either side the huts of the convicts were stationed far apart
and each in a fenced-in plot of ground. On the little hills overlooking the cove, a number
of big, bare, stone buildings were the Government quarters and barracks for the soldiers.

Attempts had been made to penetrate to the west, though without success. The rugged chain of
the Blue Mountains was an impassable barrier. Seventy miles north of Sydney a fine river--the
Hunter--had been discovered by Lieutenant Shortland while in pursuit of some runaway convicts
who had stolen a boat. Signs of coal having been seen near its mouth, convicts were sent up
to open mines, and, these proving successful, the town of Newcastle rapidly formed. In 1800
Governor Hunter returned to England on business, intending to come out again; but he was appointed
to the command of a war-ship, and Lieutenant King was sent out to take his place.

CHAPTER III.

THE DISCOVERIES OF BASS AND FLINDERS.

#1.# No community has ever been more completely isolated than the first inhabitants of Sydney.
They were three thousand miles away from the nearest white men; before them lay a great ocean,
visited only at rare intervals, and, for the greater part, unexplored; behind them was an unknown
continent, a vast, untrodden waste, in which they formed but a speck. They were almost completely
shut out from intercourse with the civilised world, and few of them could have any hope of
returning to their native land. This made the colony all the more suitable as a place of punishment;
for people shrank with horror at the idea of being banished to what seemed like a tomb for
living men and women. But, for all that, it was not desirable that Australia should remain
always as unknown and unexplored as it then was; and, seven years after the first settlement
was made, two men arrived who were determined not to suffer it so to remain.

When Governor Hunter came in 1795, he brought with him, on board his ship the Reliance, a young
surgeon, George Bass, and a midshipman called Matthew Flinders. They were young men of the
most admirable character, modest and amiable, filled with a generous and manly affection for
one another, and fired by a lofty enthusiasm which rejoiced in the wide field for discovery
and fame that spread all around them. Within a month after their arrival they purchased a small
boat about eight feet in length, which they christened the Tom Thumb. Its crew consisted of
themselves and a boy to assist--truly a poor equipment with which to face a great and stormy
ocean like the Pacific. They sailed out, and after tossing for some time like a toy on the
huge waves, they succeeded in entering Botany Bay, which they thoroughly explored, making a
chart of its shores and rivers. On their return, Governor Hunter was so highly pleased with
their work, that, shortly after, he gave them a holiday, which they spent in making a longer
expedition to the south. It was said that a very large river fell into the sea south of Botany
Bay, and they went out to search for its mouth.

#2. Boat Excursion.#--In this trip they met with some adventures which will serve to illustrate
the dangers of such a voyage. On one occasion, when their boat had been upset on the shore,
and their powder was wetted by the sea-water, about fifty natives gathered round them, evidently
with no friendly intention. Bass spread the powder out on the rocks to dry, and procured a
supply of fresh water from a neighbouring pond. But they were in expectation every moment of
being attacked and speared, and there was no hope of defending themselves till the powder was
ready. Flinders, knowing the fondness of the natives for the luxury of a shave, persuaded them
to sit down one after another on a rock, and amused them by clipping their beards with a pair
of scissors. As soon as the powder was dry the explorers loaded their muskets and cautiously
retreated to their boat, which they set right, and pushed off without mishap.

Once more on the Pacific, new dangers awaited them. They had been carried far to the south
by the strong currents, and the wind was unfavourable. There was therefore no course open to
them but to row as far as they could during the day, and at night throw out the stone which
served as an anchor, and lie as sheltered as they could, in order to snatch a little sleep.
On one of these nights, while they lay thus asleep, the wind suddenly rose to a gale, and they
were roughly wakened by the splashing of the waves over their boat. They pulled up their stone
anchor and ran before the tempest--Bass holding the sail and Flinders steering with an oar.
The night was perfectly dark, and we knew of no place of shelter, and the only direction by
which we could steer was the roar of the waves upon the neighbouring cliff's." After an hour
spent in this manner, they found themselves running straight for the breakers. They pulled
down their mast and got out the oars, though without much hope of escape. They rowed desperately,
however, and had the satisfaction of rounding the long line of boiling surf. Three minutes
after they were in smooth water, under the lee of the rocks, and soon they discovered a well-sheltered
cove, where they anchored for the rest of the night.

It was not till two days later that they found the place they were seeking. It turned out not
to be a river at all, but only the little bay of Port Hacking, which they examined and minutely
described. When they reached Sydney they gave information which enabled accurate maps to be
constructed of between thirty and forty miles of coast.

#3. Clarke.#--On arriving at Port Jackson, they found that an accident had indirectly assisted
in exploring that very coast on which they had landed. A vessel called the Sydney Cove, on
its way to Port Jackson, had been wrecked on Furneaux Island, to the north of Van Diemen's
Land. A large party, headed by Mr. Clarke, the supercargo, had started in boats, intending
to sail along the coasts and obtain help from Sydney. They were thrown ashore by a storm at
Cape Howe, and had to begin a dreary walk of three hundred miles through dense and unknown
country. Their small store of provisions was soon used, and they could find no food and little
fresh water on their path. Many dropped down, exhausted by hunger and fatigue, and had to be
abandoned to their fate. Of those who contrived to approach within thirty miles of Sydney,
the greater part were murdered by the same tribe of blacks from whom Bass and Flinders had
apprehended danger. Clarke and one or two others reached Port Jackson; their clothes in tatters,
their bodies wasted almost to the bones, and in such a state that, when a boat was brought
to carry them over the bay to Sydney, they had to be lifted on board like infants. Mr. Clarke,
on his recovery, was able to give a very useful account of a great tract of land not previously
explored. The crew of the Sydney Cove were meanwhile living on one of the Furneaux Group, and
several small ships were sent down from Sydney to rescue the crew and cargo; these also served
to make the coast better known. Flinders was very anxious to go in one of them, in order to
make a chart of the places he might pass; but his ship, the Reliance, sailed for Norfolk Island,
and he had to be a long time absent.

#4. Discovery of Bass Straits.#--His friend Bass was more fortunate; for Governor Hunter gave
him an open whaleboat, together with provisions for six weeks, and six men to manage the boat.
With these he discovered the harbour and river of Shoalhaven; entered and mapped out Jervis
Bay; discovered Twofold Bay, then rounded Cape Howe, and discovered the country now called
Victoria. After sailing along the Ninety-mile Beach, he saw high land to the south-west; and,
standing out towards it, discovered the bold headland which was afterwards named Wilson's Promontory.
Bad weather drove him to seek for shelter, and this led to the discovery of Western Port, where
he remained thirteen days. But as his provisions were running short, he was forced, with a
heavy heart, to turn homeward. He had again to seek shelter, however, from strong head winds,
and in doing so discovered what is called Corner Inlet. In all he prolonged his voyage to eleven
weeks, before he again reached Sydney: during that time he had explored six hundred miles of
coast, and had discovered four important bays, as well as what is perhaps the most important
cape in Australia. His greatest service, however, was the proof that Van Diemen's Land is not
joined to Australia, but is divided from it by the wide strait to which Bass's name is now
so justly given. All this, effected in an open whaleboat on a great ocean, may well fill us
with admiration for the courage and skill of the young surgeon.

#5. Flinders.#--When Flinders returned from Norfolk Island, he obtained leave to join the next
vessel that should start for the wreck of the Sydney Cove. Having arrived at Furneaux Island,
during the time that the wreckage and remaining cargo were being gathered, he obtained the
loan of a small boat for five days, and in it made careful surveys of the islands and straits
to the north of Van Diemen's Land. It was in this trip that he made the first discovery of
that peculiar Australian animal, the wombat.

#6. Circumnavigation of Van Diemen's Land.#--Next year (1798) Governor Hunter gave to the two
ardent young men a small sloop--the Norfolk--in which to prosecute their discoveries. They
received three months' leave of absence, in which time they proposed to sail round Van Diemen's
Land. This they did, and discovered during their voyage the river Tamar and its estuary, Port
Dalrymple. It was not in discovery alone that they were successful. Flinders made the most
beautiful and exact charts of all the coasts; he sometimes spent whole days in careful and
laborious observations and measurements, in order to have the latitude and longitude of a single
place correctly marked.

#7. Fate of Bass.#--On their return to Sydney Bass met some friends, who persuaded him to join
them in making their fortune by carrying contraband goods into South America, in spite of the
Spaniards. What became of Bass is not known, but it is supposed that he was captured by the
Spaniards and sent to the silver mines, where he was completely lost from sight. He who entered
those dreary mines was lost for ever to human knowledge; and Bass may have perished there after
years of wearisome and unknown labour. After all his hardships and adventures, his enthusiasm
and his self-devotion, he passed away from men's eyes, and no one was curious to know whither
he had gone; but Australians of these days have learnt to honour the memory of the man who
first, in company with his friend, laid the foundation of so much of their geography.

#8. The Publication of Flinders' Charts.#--Flinders remained in His Majesty's service, and
in the following year was raised to the rank of lieutenant. With his little ship, the Norfolk,
he examined the coasts of New South Wales, from Sydney northward as far as Hervey Bay. Next
year (1800) he went to London, where his charts were published, containing the first exact
accounts of the geography of Australia. They were greatly praised, and the English Government
resolved to send out an expedition to survey all the coasts of Australia in like manner. Flinders
was placed at the head of it; a vessel was given to him, which he called the Investigator;
a passport was obtained for him from the French Government, so that, though England and France
were then at war, he might not be obstructed by French war-ships. Sailing to the south coast
of Australia, he discovered Kangaroo Island and Spencer's Gulf, and then entered Port Phillip
under the impression that he was the discoverer of that inlet, but afterwards learnt that Lieutenant
Murray, in his ship the Lady Nelson, had discovered it ten weeks before.

#9. Baudin.#--As Flinders sailed down towards Bass Strait he met with a French expedition,
under M. Baudin, who had been sent out by Napoleon to make discoveries in Australia. He had
loitered so long on the coast of Tasmania that Flinders had been able to complete the examination
of the southern coast before he even approached it. Yet Baudin sailed into the very bays which
had already been mapped out, gave them French names, and took to himself the honour of their
discovery. Some months later the two expeditions met one another again in Port Jackson. Flinders
showed his charts, and the French officers allowed that he had carried off the honours of nearly
all the discoveries on the south coast; but, in spite of that, a report was published in France
in which Flinders' claims were quite ignored, and Baudin represented as the hero of Australian
discovery. The colonists at Port Jackson, however, treated the French sailors with much kindness.
Many of them were suffering from scurvy, and these were carried to the Sydney hospital and
carefully tended; and though the colonists had themselves eaten only salt meat for months before,
in order to preserve their cattle, yet they killed these very cattle to provide fresh meat
for the sick sailors. Baudin and his officers were feasted, and everything was done both by
Flinders and the people of Sydney to make their stay agreeable.

#10. Imprisonment of Flinders.#--Flinders continued his voyage northwards, rounded Cape York,
and examined the northern coasts, making an excellent chart of Torres Strait; but his vessel
becoming too rotten to be longer used, he was forced to return to Sydney. Desiring to carry
his charts and journals to England, he took his passage in an old store-ship, but she had not
sailed far before she struck on a coral reef; the crew with difficulty reached a small sandbank,
from which they were not released till two months after. Flinders saved his papers, and brought
them back to Sydney. A small schooner, the Cumberland, was given him in which to sail for England;
but she was too leaky, and too small a vessel to carry food for so long a voyage; so that he
was forced to put into the Mauritius, which then belonged to France. He fancied that his passport
from Napoleon would be his protection; but the Governor, De Caen, a low and ignorant fellow,
seized him, took his papers from him, and cast him into prison.

Baudin soon after called at the Mauritius, and would probably have procured the release of
his brother-mariner had he not died immediately after his arrival. The charts of Flinders,
however, were all sent to France, where they were published with altered names, as if they
were the work of Frenchmen. Meanwhile, Flinders was spending the weary months in close confinement
at the Mauritius.

#11. Death of Flinders.#--Nearly six years passed away before the approach of an English fleet
compelled the French to release him; and when he went to England he found that people knew
all about those very places of which he thought he was bringing the first tidings. He commenced,
however, to write his great book, and worked with the utmost pains to make all his maps scrupulously
accurate. After about four years of incessant labour, the three volumes were ready for the
press; but he was doomed never to see them. So many years of toil, so many nights passed in
open boats or on the wet sands, so many shipwrecks and weeks of semi-starvation, together with
his long and unjust imprisonment, had utterly destroyed his constitution; and on the very day
when his book was being published, the wife and daughter of Flinders were tending his last
painful hours. He was, perhaps, our greatest maritime discoverer: a man who worked because
his heart was in his work; who sought no reward, and obtained none; who lived laboriously,
and did honourable service to mankind; yet died, like his friend Bass, almost unknown to those
of his own day, but leaving a name which the world is every year more and more disposed to honour.

CHAPTER IV.

NEW SOUTH WALES, 1800-1808.

#1. Governor King.#--Governor Hunter, who left Sydney in the year 1800, was succeeded by Captain
King, the young officer who has been already mentioned as the founder of the settlement at
Norfolk Island. He was a man of much ability, and was both active and industrious; yet so overwhelming
at this time were the difficulties of Governorship in New South Wales, that his term of office
was little more than a distressing failure. The colony consisted chiefly of convicts, who were--many
of them--the most depraved and hardened villains to be met with in the history of crime. To
keep these in check, and to maintain order, was no easy task; but to make them work, to convert
them into industrious and well-behaved members of the community, was far beyond any Governor's
power. King made an effort, and did his very best; but after a time he grew disheartened, and,
in his disappointment, complained of the folly which expected him to make farmers out of pickpockets.
His chances of success would have been much increased had he been properly seconded by his
subordinates. But, unfortunately, circumstances had arisen which caused the officers and soldiers
not only to render him no assistance whatever, but even to thwart and frustrate his most careful
plans.

#2. The New South Wales Corps.#--In 1790 a special corps had been organised in the British
army for service in the colony; it was called the New South Wales Corps, and was intended to
be permanently settled in Sydney. Very few high-class officers cared to enter this service,
so far from home and in the midst of the lowest criminals. Those who joined it generally came
out with the idea of quickly gathering a small fortune, then resigning their commissions and
returning to England. The favourite method of making money was to import goods into the settlement
and sell them at high rates of profit; and, in their haste to become rich, many resorted to
unscrupulous devices for obtaining profits. A trade in which those who commanded were the sellers,
whilst the convicts and settlers under their charge were the purchasers, could hardly fail
to ruin discipline and introduce grave evils, more especially when ardent spirits began to
be the chief article of traffic. It was found that nothing sold so well among the convicts
as rum, their favourite liquor; and, rather than not make money, the officers began to import
large quantities of that spirit, thus deliberately assisting to demoralise still further the
degraded population which they had been sent to reform. So enormous were the profits made in
this debasing trade that very few of the officers could refrain from joining it. Soon the New
South Wales Corps became like one great firm of spirit merchants, engaged in the importing
and retailing of rum. The most enterprising went so far as to introduce stills and commence
the manufacture of spirits in the colony. By an order of the Governor in Council this was forbidden,
but many continued to work their stills in secret. This system of traffic, demoralising to
every one engaged in it, was shared even by the highest officials in the colony. In the year
1800 the chief constable was a publican, and the head gaoler sold rum and brandy opposite the
prison gates.

#3. State of the Colony.#--Under these circumstances, drunkenness became fearfully prevalent;
the freed convicts gave themselves up to unrestrained riot, and, when intoxicated, committed
the most brutal atrocities; the soldiers also sank into the wildest dissipation; and many of
the officers themselves led lives of open and shameless debauchery. This was the community
Governor King had to rule. He made an effort to effect some change, but failed; and we can
hardly wonder at the feeling of intense disgust which he entertained and freely expressed.

#4. Mutiny of Convicts.#--Most of the convicts, on their arrival in the colony, were "assigned"--that
is, sent to work as shepherds or farm-labourers for the free settlers in the country; but prisoners
of the worst class were chained in gangs and employed on the roads, or on the Government farms.
One of these gangs, consisting of three or four hundred convicts, was stationed at Castlehill,
a few miles north of Parramatta. The prisoners, emboldened by their numbers and inflamed by
the oratory of a number of political exiles, broke out into open insurrection. They flung away
their hoes and spades, removed their irons, seized about two hundred and fifty muskets, and
marched towards the Hawkesbury, expecting to be there reinforced by so many additional convicts
that they would be able to overpower the military. Major Johnstone, with twenty-four soldiers
of the New South Wales Corps, pursued them; they halted and turned round to fight, but he charged
with so much determination into their midst that they were quickly routed, and fled in all
directions, leaving several of their number dead on the spot. Three or four of the ringleaders
were caught and hanged; the remainder returned quickly to their duty.

#5. Origin of Wool-growing.#--During Governor King's term of office a beginning was made in
what is now an industry of momentous importance to Australia. In the New South Wales Corps
there had been an officer named Macarthur, who had become so disgusted with the service that,
shortly after his arrival in Sydney, he resigned his commission, and, having obtained a grant
of land, became a settler in the country. He quickly perceived that wool-growing, if properly
carried on, would be a source of much wealth, and obtained a number of sheep from the Dutch
colony at the Cape of Good Hope, with which to make a commencement. These were of a kind which
did not suit the climate, and his first attempt failed; but in 1803, when he was in England
on a visit, he spoke so highly of New South Wales as a country adapted for wool-growing, that
King George III. was interested in the proposal, and offered his assistance. Now, the sheep
most suitable for Macarthur's purpose were the merino sheep of Spain; but these were not to
be obtained, as the Spaniards, desirous of keeping the lucrative trade of wool-growing to themselves,
had made it a capital crime to export sheep of this kind from Spain. But it so happened that,
as a special favour, a few had been given to King George, who was an enthusiastic farmer; and
when he heard of Macarthur's idea, he sent him one or two from his own flock to be carried
out to New South Wales. They were safely landed at Sydney, Governor King made a grant of ten
thousand acres to Mr. Macarthur, at Camden, and the experiment was begun. It was not long before
the most marked success crowned the effort, and in the course of a few years the meadows at
Camden were covered with great flocks of sheep, whose wool yielded annually a handsome fortune
to their enterprising owner.

#6. Governor Bligh.#--In 1806 Governor King was succeeded by Captain Bligh, whose previous
adventures have made his name so well known. In his ship, the Bounty, he had been sent by the
British Government to the South Sea Islands for a cargo of bread-fruit trees. But his conduct
to his sailors was so tyrannical that they mutinied, put him, along with eighteen others, into
an open boat, then sailed away, and left him in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. Bligh was
a skilful sailor, and the voyage he thereupon undertook is one of the most remarkable on record.
In an open boat he carried his little party over 3,500 miles of unknown ocean to the island
of Timor, where they found a vessel that took them home.

In appointing Captain Bligh to rule the colony, the English Government spoiled an excellent
seaman to make a very inefficient Governor. It was true that New South Wales contained a large
convict population, who required to be ruled with despotic rigour; yet there were many free
settlers who declined to be treated like slaves and felons, and who soon came to have a thorough
dislike to the new Governor. Not that he was without kindly feeling; his generous treatment
of the Hawkesbury farmers, who were ruined by a flood in 1806, showed him to have been warm-hearted
in his way; he exerted himself to the utmost, both with time and money, to alleviate their
distress, and received the special thanks of the English Government for his humanity. And yet
his arbitrary and unamiable manners completely obscured all these better qualities. He caused
the convicts to be flogged without mercy for faults which existed only in his own imagination;
he bullied his officers, and, throughout the colony, repeated the same mistakes which had led
to the mutiny of the Bounty. At the same time, he was anxious to do what he conceived to be
his duty to his superiors in England. He had been ordered to put a stop to the traffic in spirits,
and, in spite of the most unscrupulous opposition on the part of those whose greed was interested,
he set himself to effect this reform by prompt and summary measures, and with a contemptuous
disregard of the hatred he was causing; but, in the end, the officers were too strong for him,
and in the quarrel that ensued the Governor was completely defeated.

#7. Expulsion of Bligh.#--Month after month Bligh became more and more unpopular; those whom
he did not alienate in the course of his duty he offended by his rudeness, until, at last,
there was scarcely any one in the colony who was his friend. Many were inflamed by so bitter
a hatred that they were ready to do anything for revenge, and affairs seemed to be in that
critical state in which a trifling incident may bring about serious results.

This determining cause was supplied by a quarrel which took place between Mr. Macarthur and
Mr. Atkin, the new judge-advocate of the colony. Mr. Macarthur was condemned to pay a heavy
fine for neglect, in having permitted a convict to escape in a vessel of which he was partly
the owner. He refused to pay, and was summoned before the court, of which Atkin was the president.
He declined to appear, on the ground that Atkin was his personal enemy. Thereupon Atkin caused
him to be seized and put in gaol. Bligh appointed a special court to try him, consisting of
six officers, together with Atkin himself. Macarthur was brought before it, but protested against
being judged by his enemy, stating his willingness, however, to abide by the decision of the
six officers. The officers supported his protest, and the trial was discontinued. Bligh was
exceedingly angry, and, by declaring he would put the six officers in gaol, brought matters
to a crisis. The officers of the New South Wales Corps all took part with their comrades; they
assisted Mr. Macarthur to get up a petition, asking Major Johnstone, the military commander,
to depose Governor Bligh, and himself take charge of the colony. Major Johnstone was only too
glad of the opportunity. He held a council of officers, at which Mr. Macarthur and several
others were present. Their course of action was decided upon, and next morning the soldiers
marched, with colours flying and drums beating, to the gate of the Governor's house. Here they
were met by Bligh's daughter, who endeavoured to persuade them to retire; but they made her
stand aside and marched up the avenue. Meantime the Governor had hidden himself in the house;
the soldiers entered and searched everywhere for him, till at length they discovered him behind
a bed, where he was seeking to hide important papers. He was arrested, and sentinels were posted
to prevent his escape. Major Johnstone assumed the Governor's position, and appointed his friends
to the most important offices in the Government service. He continued to direct affairs for
some time, until Colonel Foveaux superseded him. Foveaux, in his turn, was superseded by Colonel
Patterson, who came over from Tasmania to take charge of the colony until a new Governor should
be sent out from home. Patterson offered Bligh his liberty if he would promise to go straight
to England, and not seek to raise a disturbance in the colony. This promise was given by Bligh,
and yet no sooner was he free than he began to stir up the Hawkesbury settlers in his behalf.
They declined to assist him, however, and Bligh went over to Tasmania, where the settlement
to be described in the next chapter had been formed. Here he was received with great good-will,
until the news arrived from Sydney that, according to the solemn promise he had given, he ought
at that time to have been on his way to England. An attempt was made to capture him, but he
escaped to England, where his adventures in New South Wales were soon forgotten, and he rose
to be an admiral in the English navy. When the news of the rebellion reached the authorities
in England, Major Johnstone was dismissed from the service, and Major-General Lachlan Macquarie
was sent out to be Governor of the colony. Major Johnstone retired to a farm in New South Wales,
where he lived and prospered till his death in 1817.

CHAPTER V.

TASMANIA, 1803-1836.

#1. First Settlement.#--After the departure of Baudin from Sydney it was discovered that there
was an inclination on the part of the French to settle in some part of Australia. It was known
that the inlet called Storm Bay, in the island then known as Van Diemen's Land, had especially
attracted their notice, its shores having been so green and leafy. It was now known that Van
Diemen's Land was severed by a broad strait from the mainland, and the Governor at Sydney thought
that if the French proposed to make a settlement anywhere they would be certain to appropriate
this island, and deny that the English had any claim to it. He, therefore, prepared an expedition
to proceed to Storm Bay and take possession of its shores. For that purpose he chose Lieutenant
John Bowen, who had recently arrived as an officer of a ship of war, and appointed him commandant
of the proposed settlement. The colonial ship called the Lady Nelson was chosen as the means
of conveying him and eight soldiers, while a whaling ship called the Albion was chartered for
the purpose of carrying twenty-four convicts and six free persons, who were to found the new
colony. This was a very small number with which to occupy a large country; but Governor King
thought that in the meantime they would be sufficient to assert a prior claim, and that the
authorities in England could subsequently decide whether the settlement should be increased
or withdrawn.

Governor King saw also another object in founding this new colony. He had some most unruly
convicts in Sydney, who were only a source of trouble and annoyance to all the rest. It seemed
to him an advantage to be able to send these off to a place by themselves, under specially
severe discipline. In September, 1803, the two ships sailed up Storm Bay and into the mouth
of the river Derwent. Lieutenant Bowen caused them to anchor on the right side of the estuary,
in a little bay called Risdon Cove. The people were soon on shore, and pitched their tents
on a grassy hill a little back from the water. Bowen went out to survey the country, while
the convicts set to work to build huts for themselves; a little village soon appeared, and
in the long grass that surrounded it a few sheep and goats were pastured for the use of the
rising colony. The place was named Hobart Town, after Lord Hobart, who was then Secretary of
State for the Colonies. A month later Governor King sent forty-two convicts and fifteen soldiers
to increase the strength of the settlement; and the little village was beginning to look populous,
when, unexpectedly, there came a great accession from another source.

#2. Collins.#--During this same year, 1803, the British Government, moved by fears of a French
occupation, had resolved to form a settlement on the shores of Port Phillip. Accordingly David
Collins, who had been judge-advocate at Sydney, but had taken a trip to England, was chosen
to be Lieutenant-Governor of the new colony, and was despatched with 307 convicts, 24 wives
of convicts, 51 soldiers, and 13 free settlers, on board two ships, the Calcutta and the Ocean.
Collins had made an effort to form a settlement at Port Phillip, on a sandy shore, near the
site of Sorrento, but had grown disgusted with the place; and early in 1804 he carried off
all the people, and resolved to abandon Port Phillip in favour of the Derwent. He landed at
Risdon on the 15th February, and, after a short examination, came to the conclusion that the
situation was unsuitable. Next day he went in search of a better place, and chose a little
bay on the opposite side, some six miles nearer the mouth of the estuary, and thither the whole
settlement was soon after removed. There, at the very foot of the lofty Mount Wellington, Hobart
Town began to grow in its new situation. Houses were rapidly erected; most of them consisted
of posts stuck in the ground, interwoven with twigs of wattle trees, and then daubed over with
mud. The chimneys were built of stones and turf, and the roofs were thatched with grass. Whilst
the new town was growing, a party of convicts and soldiers was still busy on the little farms
at Risdon, and early in May they had a most unfortunate affray with the natives. A party of
two or three hundred blacks, who were travelling southward, came suddenly in sight of the white
men and their habitations. These were the first Europeans whom they had seen, and they became
much excited at the strange spectacle. While they were shouting and gesticulating, the Englishmen
thought they were preparing for an attack and fired upon them. The blacks fled and the white
men pursued them, killing about thirty of the unfortunate natives. Thus was begun a long warfare,
which ended only with the complete extinction of the native races.

#3. Patterson.#--Next year, 1804, the Sydney Government sent another party of convicts, under
Colonel Patterson, to found a colony in the north of Tasmania. The position selected was near
the entrance to Port Dalrymple; and here, for eight years, a small settlement continued to
exist in an independent state, until, in 1812, it was placed under the charge of the Governor
at Hobart Town.

#4. Death Of Collins.#--The colony at the latter place was meanwhile slowly establishing itself;
and in 1808, when Bligh visited it after his expulsion from Sydney, he found the little township
with quite a settled and comfortable appearance. In 1810 it lost its amiable and warm-hearted
Governor. While calmly and cheerfully conversing with a friend, Mr. Collins fell back dead
in his chair. He was a man of a good and kindly nature, a little vain and self-important, but
earnest and upright, and possessed of very fair abilities. The distinguished part he played
in the early colonisation of Australia will always render him a prominent person in our history.

#5. Governor Davey.#--It took some time for the news of the Governor's death to reach England,
and during the three years that elapsed before his successor could be sent out, the place was
filled in turn by three gentlemen, named Lord, Murray, and Geils, till, in 1813, the new Governor,
Davey, arrived. He had been a colonel of marines, and had shown himself a good soldier, but
he had few of the qualities of a Governor. He was rough and excessively coarse in his manners,
and utterly regardless of all decorum. He showed his defiance of all conventional rules by
the manner of his entry. The day being warm, he took off his coat and waistcoat, and marched
into the town in a costume more easy than dignified; he listened to the address of welcome
with careless indifference, and throughout showed little respect either for himself or for
the people he had come to govern. Yet, under his rule, the colony made progress. In his first
year he opened the port to ordinary merchant ships; for, previously, as the town was a convict
settlement of the most severe type, no free person was allowed to land without special permission.
From this time commerce began to spring up; free settlers spread over the country, and cultivated
it with such success that, in 1816, besides supplying all the necessities of their own community,
they were able to export grain to Sydney.

#6. New Norfolk.#--In 1807 the settlement of Norfolk Island had been abandoned by the British
Government, on account of its expense, and the convicts, of whom many had there grown to be
decent, orderly farmers, were brought to Tasmania. They formed a new settlement on the Derwent,
about fifteen miles above Hobart Town, at a place which they called "New Norfolk," in affectionate
memory of their former island home.

#7. Bushranging.#--About this time the colony began to be greatly annoyed by bushrangers. From
twenty to forty convicts generally escaped every year and betook themselves to the wild country
around the central lakes of Tasmania. There, among the fastnesses of the western mountains,
they led a desperate and daring life, sometimes living with the natives, whom they quickly
taught all the wickedness they themselves knew. Their ordinary lives were wretchedly debased;
and, in search of booty, or in revenge for fancied injuries, they often committed the most
savage crimes. They treated their native companions like beasts, to be used for a while, and
then shot or mangled when no longer wanted; and it is not surprising that the blacks soon became
filled with intense hatred of all the white invaders of their land. Frequently the aboriginal
tribes united to attack the lonely farm-house and murder all its inhabitants. Hence, every
settler in the country districts was well supplied with arms, and taught all his household
to use them; the walls were pierced here and there with holes, through which a musket might
be directed in safety against an advancing enemy. The fear of bushrangers who might attack
them for the sake of plunder, and of natives who might massacre them in revenge, kept the scattered
settlers in constant terror and trouble.

#8. Governor Sorell.#--But in 1817, when Governor Davey grew tired of his position and resigned
it, choosing rather to live an easy-going life on his estate near Hobart Town, than be troubled
with the cares of office, Colonel Sorell, the new Governor, set himself with vigour to suppress
these ruthless marauders. He was to some extent successful, and the young colony enjoyed an
interval of peace. Farming was profitable, and the exports of wheat began to assume large dimensions.
The best breeds of sheep were brought into the island, and Van Diemen's Land wool, which at
first had been despised in England, and used only for stuffing mattresses, grew into favour,
and was bought by the manufacturers at high prices. Thus many of the settlers became wealthy,
and the estates from which their wealth was derived began to have a correspondingly high value,
so as to give the colony an assured prosperity which was certainly remarkable in the sixteenth
year from its foundation. Another industry was added, which indirectly contributed to the wealth
of Tasmania. The captain of a merchant vessel, on his way to Sydney, had seen a great shoal
of whales off the south coast of Tasmania, and, along with the Governor of New South Wales,
secretly formed a scheme to fit out a whaling expedition. But his crew also had seen the whales,
and soon made the fact widely known; so that, by the time the captain's party was ready to
sail, there were several other whaling vessels on the point of starting. They were all successful,
and very soon a large number of ships was engaged in whale fishing. Now, as Hobart Town was
the nearest port, the whalers found that it saved time to go thither with their oil, and to
buy their provisions and refit their ships there; so that the trade and importance of the little
city received a very material impetus in this way.

Much of the progress was due to the sensible management of Governor Sorell, who spared no effort
to reform the convicts, as well as to elevate and refine the free settlers. Hence it was with
great regret that the colonists saw his term of office expire in 1824. They petitioned the
English Government to allow him to stay for another six years; and when the reply was given
that this could not be done, as Colonel Sorell was required elsewhere, they presented him with
a handsome testimonial, and settled on him an income of £500 a year from their own revenues.

#9. Governor Arthur.#--After Colonel Sorell had left, bushranging became as troublesome as
ever. Governor Arthur arrived in 1824, and found the colony fast relapsing into its former
unsettled state. He learnt that, shortly before, some thirteen or fourteen convicts had succeeded
in escaping from the penal settlement in an open boat, and had landed on a lonely part of the
coast. They were joined by a great crowd of concealed convicts, and, under the leadership of
Crawford and Brady, formed a dangerous horde of robbers, who, for years, kept the whole colony
in terror. For a while they plundered without hindrance, till a party of about a dozen attacked
the house of an old gentleman named Taylor, who had the courage to fight and defeat them. With
his three sons, his carpenter, and his servant, he fired upon the advancing ruffians, whilst
his daughters rapidly reloaded the muskets. The robbers retreated, leaving their leader--Crawford--and
two or three others, who had been wounded, to be captured by Mr. Taylor and sent to Hobart
Town, where they were executed. Brady then became chief leader of the band, and though his
encounter with Mr. Taylor had taken away all his ardour for fighting, he contrived to plunder
and annoy for a long time. Deep in the woods, along the silent banks of the Shannon, the outlaws
lived securely; for, even when the soldiers ventured to penetrate into these lonely regions,
the outlaws could easily escape to the rugged mountain sides, where they could hide or defend
themselves. Governor Arthur's task was not an easy one, for Brady could command a powerful
force, and his was not the only one of the kind; the result was that, for a long time, the
country was unsettled and trade was paralysed. Seeing no other course open, Governor Arthur
offered a pardon and a free passage home to those who surrendered. So many were thus induced
to submit peaceably that, at length, Brady was almost alone; and whilst he wandered in a secluded
valley, without followers, he was surprised by John Batman, who, several years after, assisted
in the settlement of Victoria. Brady surrendered and was executed; the bushrangers, by degrees,
disappeared, and the colonists once more breathed freely.

#10. Separation.#--Hitherto Tasmania had only been a dependency of New South Wales, but in
1825 it was made a separate colony, with a Supreme Court of its own. In 1829 it received its
first legislative body, fifteen gentlemen being appointed to consult with the Governor and
make laws for the colony. For some years after, the history of Tasmania is simply an account
of quiet industry and steady progress. Hobart Town, by degrees, grew to be a fine city, with
handsome buildings and well kept streets. The country districts were fenced in and well tilled,
good roads and bridges were made, and everything looked smiling and prosperous. The only serious
difficulty was the want of coin for the ordinary purposes of trade. So great was the scarcity
of gold and silver money that pieces of paper, with promises to pay a certain sum--perhaps
a sixpence or a shilling--were largely used in the colony, in place of the money itself. At
the request of Governor Arthur, coins to the value of a hundred thousand pounds were sent out
from England for the use of the colonists.

Governor Arthur's period of office expired in 1836, and he left the colony, greatly to the
regret of the colonists, who subscribed £1,500 to present him with a testimonial. He was succeeded
by Sir John Franklin, the famous voyager, whose history will be related in a subsequent chapter.

CHAPTER VI.

NEW SOUTH WALES, 1808-1837.

#1. Governor Macquarie.#--In 1808 the English Government held an inquiry as to the circumstances
which had caused the expulsion of Governor Bligh; and though they cashiered Major Johnstone,
and indeed ordered the whole of the New South Wales Corps to be disbanded, yet, as it was clear
that Bligh had been himself very much to blame, they yielded to the wishes of the settlers
in so far as to appoint a new Governor in his place, and therefore despatched Major-General
Macquarie to take the position. He was directed to reinstate Bligh for a period of twenty-four
hours, in order to indicate that the authorities in England would not suffer the colonists
to dictate to them in these matters; but that they reserved completely to themselves the right
to appoint and dismiss the Governors. However, as Bligh had by this time gone to Tasmania,
Macquarie was forced to content himself, on his arrival, with merely proclaiming what had been
his instructions.

In the early days of the colonies their destinies were, to a great extent, moulded by the Governors
who had charge of them. Whether for good or for evil, the influence of the Governor was decisive;
and it was, therefore, a matter of great good fortune to Sydney that, during the long administration
of Governor Lachlan Macquarie, this influence was almost wholly on the side of good. Not that
Macquarie had no faults. He was a man full of vanity and self-conceit; a man who, instead of
sober despatches to his superiors in England, wrote flowery accounts of himself and his wonderful
doings; a man who, in his egoism, affixed the names of himself and of his family to nearly
every place discovered in the colony during his term of office. Yet, apart from this weakness,
Macquarie may be characterised as an exemplary man and an admirable Governor. He devoted himself
heartily to his work; his chief thought for twelve years was how to improve the state of the
little colony, and how to raise the degraded men who had been sent thither. An ardent feeling
of philanthropy gave a kindly tone to his restless activity. Once every year he made a complete
tour of the settled portions of the colony, to observe their condition and discover what improvements
were needed. He taught the farmers to build for themselves neat houses, in place of the rude
huts they had previously been content with; he encouraged them to improve their system of farming,
sometimes with advice, sometimes with money, but more often with loans from the Government
stores. He built churches and schools; he took the warmest interest in the progress of religion
and of education; and neglected nothing that could serve to elevate the moral tone of the little
community. Certainly, no community has ever been in greater need of elevation. The fact that
the British Government thought it necessary to send out 1,100 soldiers to keep order among
a population of only 10,000 indicates very plainly what was the character of these people,
and almost justifies the sweeping assertion of Macquarie, that the colony consisted of those
"who had been transported, and those who ought to have been". Yet Macquarie uniformly showed
a kindly disposition towards the convicts; he settled great numbers of them as free men on
little farms of their own; and if they did not succeed as well as they might have done, it
was not for want of advice and assistance from the Governor.

#2. Road over the Blue Mountains.# The most important result of Macquarie's activity was the
opening up of new country. He had quite a passion for road-making; and though, on his arrival
in the colony, he found only forty-five miles of what were little better than bush tracks,
yet, when he left, there were over three hundred miles of excellent and substantial roads spreading
in all directions from Sydney. He marked out towns--such as Windsor, Richmond, and Castlereagh--in
suitable places; then, by making roads to them, he encouraged the freed convicts to leave Sydney
and form little communities inland. But his greatest achievement in the way of road-making
was the highway across the Blue Mountains. This range had for years presented an insurmountable
barrier. Many persons--including the intrepid Bass--had attempted to cross it, but in vain;
the only one who succeeded even in penetrating far into that wild and rugged country was a
gentleman called Caley, who stopped at the edge of an enormous precipice, where he could see
no way of descending. But in 1813 three gentlemen--named Wentworth, Lawson, and Blaxland--succeeded
in crossing. After laboriously piercing through the dense timber which covers some of the ranges,
they traversed a wild and desolate country, sometimes crawling along naked precipices, sometimes
fighting their way through wild ravines, but at length emerging on the beautiful plains to
the west. On their return they found that by keeping constantly on the crest of a long spur,
the road could be made much easier, and Governor Macquarie, stimulated by their report, sent
Surveyor Evans to examine the pass. His opinion was favourable, and Macquarie lost no time
in commencing to construct a road over the mountains. The difficulties in his way were immense;
for fifty miles the course lay through the most rugged country, where yawning chasms had to
be bridged, and oftentimes the solid rock had to be cut away. Yet, in less than fifteen months,
a good carriage highway stretched from Sydney across the mountains; and the Governor was able
to take Mrs. Macquarie on a trip to the fine pasture lands beyond, where he founded a town
and named it Bathurst, after Lord Bathurst, the Secretary of State. This was a measure of great
importance to the colony, for the country between the mountains and the sea was too limited
and too much subject to droughts to maintain the two hundred and fifty thousand sheep which
the prosperous colony now possessed. Many squatters took their flocks along the road to Bathurst,
and settled down in the spacious pasture lands of the Macquarie and Lachlan Rivers.

#3. Governor Brisbane.#--In 1821 Governor Macquarie left for England, much regretted by the
colonists. The only serious mistake of his policy had been that he had quietly discouraged
the introduction of free settlers, "because," as he said, "the colony is intended for convicts,
and free settlers have no business here". His successor--Sir Thomas Brisbane--and, afterwards,
Sir Ralph Darling--adopted a more liberal policy, and offered every inducement to free immigrants
to make their homes in the colony. It was never found possible, however, to obtain many of
that class which has been so successful in America, consisting of men who, having with difficulty
gathered sufficient money for their passages, landed in their adopted country without means
and with no resources beyond the cheerful labour of themselves and of their families, yet settled
down in the deep, untrodden forests, and there made for themselves happy and prosperous homes.
This was not the class of immigrants who arrived in New South Wales during the times of Brisbane
and Darling. For in 1818 free passages to Australia had been abolished, and the voyage was
so long and so expensive that a poor man could scarcely hope to accomplish it. Hence, those
who arrived in Sydney were generally young men of good education, who brought with them a few
hundred pounds, and not only were willing to labour themselves, but were able to employ the
labour of others. In America, the "squatter" was a man who farmed a small piece of land. In
Australia, he was one who bought a flock of sheep and carried them out to the pasture lands,
where, as they increased from year to year, he grew rich with the annual produce of their wool.
Sir Thomas Brisbane was pleased with the advent of men of this class: he gave them grants of
land and assigned to them as many convicts as they were able to employ. Very speedily the fine
lands of the colony were covered with flocks and herds; and the applications for convicts became
so numerous that, at one time, two thousand more were demanded than could be supplied. Hence
began an important change in the colony. The costly Government farms were, one after another,
broken up, and the convicts assigned to the squatters. Then the unremunerative public works
were abandoned; for many of these had been begun only for the purpose of occupying the prisoners.
All this tended for good; as the convicts, when thus scattered, were much more manageable,
and much more likely to reform, than when gathered in large and corrupting crowds. In Macquarie's
time, not one convict in ten could be usefully employed; seven or eight years after, there
was not a convict in the colony whose services would not be eagerly sought for at a good price
by the squatters.

This important change took place under Governors Brisbane and Darling, and was in a great measure
due to those Governors; yet, strange to say, neither of them was ever popular. Brisbane, who
entered upon office in 1821, was a fine old soldier, a thorough gentleman, honourable and upright
in all his ways. Yet it could not be doubted that he was out of his proper sphere when conducting
the affairs of a young colony, and in 1825 the British Government found it necessary to recall him.

#4. Governor Darling.#--He was succeeded by Sir Ralph Darling, who was also a soldier, but
was, at the same time, a man well adapted for business. Yet he, too, failed to give satisfaction.
He was precise and methodical, and his habits were painfully careful, exhibiting that sort
of diligence which takes infinite trouble and anxiety over details, to the neglect of larger
and more important matters. His administration lasted six years, from 1825 to 1831. During
this period an association was formed in England, consisting of merchants and members of Parliament,
who subscribed a capital of one million pounds, and received from Government a grant of one
million acres in New South Wales. They called themselves the Australian Agricultural Company,
and proposed to improve and cultivate the waste lands of Australia, to import sheep and cattle
for squatting purposes, to open up mines for coal and metals, and, in general, to avail themselves
of the vast resources of the colony. Sir Edward Parry, the famous Polar navigator, was sent
out as manager. The servants and employés of the association formed quite a flourishing colony
on the Liverpool Plains, at the head of the Darling River; and though, at first, it caused
some confusion in the financial state of New South Wales, yet, in the end, it proved of great
benefit to the whole colony.

#5. The Legislative Council.#--In 1824 a small Executive Council had been formed to consult
with Governor Brisbane on colonial matters. In 1829 this was enlarged and became the Legislative
Council, consisting of fifteen members, who had power to make laws for the colony. But as their
proceedings were strictly secret, and could be completely reversed by the Governor whenever
he chose, they formed but a very imperfect substitute for a truly legislative body. Yet this
Council was of some service to the colony: one of its first acts was to introduce the English
jury system, in place of arbitrary trials by Government officials.

#6. The Newspaper War.#--Governor Darling was never popular. During the greater part of his
period of office intrigues were continually on foot to obtain his recall; and from this state
of feeling there arose what has been called the newspaper war, which lasted for four years
with great violence. The first Australian newspaper had been established in 1803 by a convict
named Howe. It was in a great measure supported by the patronage of the Government, and the
Governors always exercised the right of forbidding the insertion of what they disliked. Hence
this paper, the Sydney Gazette, was considered to be the Government organ, and, accordingly,
its opinions of the Governors and their acts were greatly distrusted. But, during the time
of Brisbane, an independent newspaper, the Australian, was established by Mr. Wentworth and
Dr. Wardell. A second of the same kind soon followed, and was called the Monitor. These papers
found it to their advantage, during the unpopularity of Darling, to criticise severely the
acts of that Governor, who was defended by the Gazette with intemperate zeal. This altercation
had lasted for some time, when, in the third year of Darling's administration, a very small
event was sufficient to set the whole colony in an uproar.

A dissipated soldier named Sudds persuaded his companion, Thompson, that their prospects were
not hopeful so long as they remained soldiers; but that, if they became convicts, they had
a fair chance of growing rich and prosperous. Accordingly, they entered a shop and stole a
piece of cloth. They were tried, convicted, and sentenced to be transported to Tasmania for
seven years. This was what they wished; but Governor Darling, having heard of the scheme they
were so successfully carrying out, took it upon himself to alter the course of the law, and
directed them to be chained together with heavy spiked collars of iron about their necks, and
to be set to labour on the roads. Sudds was suffering from liver disease; he sank beneath the
severity of his punishment, and in a few days he died--while Thompson, about the same time,
became insane. This was an excellent opportunity for the opposition papers, which immediately
attacked the Governor for what they called his illegal interference and his brutality. The
Gazette filled its columns with the most fulsome flattery in his defence, and Darling himself
was so imprudent as to mingle in the dispute, and to do what he could to annoy the editors
of the two hostile papers. Very soon the whole colony was divided into two great classes--the
one needlessly extolling the Governor, the other denouncing him as the most cowardly and brutal
of men. For four years this abusive warfare lasted, till at length the opponents of Darling
won the day; and in 1831 he was recalled by the English Government.

#7. Governor Bourke.#--Sir Richard Bourke, who succeeded him, was the most able and the most
popular of all the Sydney Governors. He had the talent and energy of Macquarie; but he had,
in addition, a frank and hearty manner, which insensibly won the hearts of the colonists, who,
for years after his departure, used to talk affectionately of him as the "good old Governor
Bourke". During his term of office the colony continued in a sober way to make steady progress.
In 1833 its population numbered 60,000, of whom 36,000 were free persons. Every year there
arrived three thousand fresh convicts; but as an equal number of free immigrants also arrived,
the colony was benefited by its annual increase of population.

#8. The Land Question.#--Governor Bourke, on his landing, found that much discontent existed
with reference to what was called the Land Question. It was understood that any one who applied
for land to the Government, and showed that he would make a good use of it, would receive a
suitable area as a free grant. But many abuses crept in under this system. In theory, all men
had an equal right to obtain the land they required; but, in practice, it was seldom possible
for one who had no friends among the officials at Sydney to obtain a grant. An immigrant had
often to wait for months, and see his application unheeded; while, meantime, a few favoured
individuals were calling day by day at the Land Office, and receiving grant after grant of
the choicest parts of the colony. Governor Bourke, under instructions from the English Parliament,
made a new arrangement. There were to be no more free grants. In the settled districts all
land was to be put up for auction; if less than five shillings an acre was offered, it was
not to be sold; when the offers rose above that price, it was to be given to the highest bidder.
This was regarded as a very fair arrangement; and, as a large sum of money was annually received
from the sale of land, the Government was able to resume the practice, discontinued in 1818,
of assisting poor people to emigrate from Europe to the colony.

#9. The Squatters.#--Beyond the surveyed districts the land was occupied by squatters, who
settled down where they pleased, but had no legal right to their "runs," as they were called.
With regard to these lands new regulations were urgently required; for the squatters, who were
liable to be turned off at a moment's notice, felt themselves in a very precarious position.
Besides, as their sheep increased rapidly, and the flocks of neighbouring squatters interfered
with one another, violent feuds sprang up, and were carried on with much bitterness. To put
an end to these evils Governor Bourke ordered the squatters to apply for the land they required.
He promised to have boundaries marked out; but gave notice that he would, in future, charge
a rent in proportion to the number of sheep the land could support. In return, he would secure
to each squatter the peaceable occupation of his run until the time came when it should be
required for sale. This regulation did much to secure the stability of squatting interests
in New South Wales.

After ruling well and wisely for six years, Governor Bourke retired in the year 1837, amid
the sincere regrets of the whole colony.

CHAPTER VII.

DISCOVERIES IN THE INTERIOR, 1817-1836.

#1. Oxley.#--After the passage over the Blue Mountains had been discovered--in 1813--and the
beautiful pasture land round Bathurst had been opened up to the enterprise of the squatters,
it was natural that the colonists should desire to know something of the nature and capabilities
of the land which stretched away to the west. In 1817 they sent Mr. Oxley, the Surveyor-General,
to explore the country towards the interior, directing him to follow the course of the Lachlan
and discover the ultimate "fate," as they called it, of its waters. Taking with him a small
party, he set out from the settled districts on the Macquarie, and for many days walked along
the banks of the Lachlan, through undulating districts of woodland and rich meadow. But, after
a time, the explorers could perceive that they were gradually entering upon a region of totally
different aspect; the ground was growing less and less hilly; the tall mountain trees were
giving place to stunted shrubs; and the fresh green of the grassy slopes was disappearing.
At length they emerged on a great plain, filled with dreary swamps, which stretched as far
as the eye could reach, like one vast dismal sea of waving reeds. Into this forbidding region
they penetrated, forcing their way through the tangled reeds and over weary miles of oozy mud,
into which they sank almost to the knees at every step. Ere long they had to abandon this effort
to follow the Lachlan throughout its course; they therefore retraced their steps, and, striking
to the south, succeeded in going round the great swamp which had opposed their progress. Again
they followed the course of the river for some distance, entering, as they journeyed, into
regions of still greater desolation; but again they were forced to desist by a second swamp
of the same kind. The Lachlan here seemed to lose itself in interminable marshes, and as no
trace could be found of its further course, Oxley concluded that they had reached the end of
the river. As he looked around on the dreary expanse, he pronounced the country to be "for
ever uninhabitable"; and, on his return to Bathurst, he reported that, in this direction at
least, there was no opening for enterprise. The Lachlan, he said, flows into an extensive region
of swamps, which are perhaps only the margin of a great inland sea.

Oxley was afterwards sent to explore the course of the Macquarie River, but was as little successful
in this as in his former effort. The river flowed into a wide marsh, some thirty or forty miles
long, and he was forced to abandon his purpose; he started for the eastern coast, crossed the
New England Range, and descended the long woodland slopes to the sea, discovering on his way
the river Hastings.

#2. Allan Cunningham.#--Several important discoveries were effected by an enthusiastic botanist
named Allan Cunningham, who, in his search for new plants, succeeded in opening up country
which had been previously unknown. In 1825 he found a passage over the Liverpool Range, through
a wild and picturesque gap, which he called the Pandora Pass; and on the other side of the
mountains he discovered the fine pastoral lands of the Liverpool Plains and the Darling Downs,
which are watered by three branches of the Upper Darling--the Peel, the Gwydir, and the Dumaresq.
The squatters were quick to take advantage of these discoveries; and, after a year or two,
this district was covered with great flocks of sheep. It was here that the Australian Agricultural
Company formed their great stations already referred to.

#3. Hume and Hovell.#--The southern coasts of the district now called Victoria had been carefully
explored by Flinders and other sailors, but the country which lay behind these coasts was quite
unknown. In 1824 Governor Brisbane suggested a novel plan of exploration; he proposed to land
a party of convicts at Wilson's Promontory, with instructions to work their way through the
interior to Sydney, where they would receive their freedom. The charge of the party was offered
to Hamilton Hume, a young native of the colony, and a most expert and intrepid bushman. He
was of an energetic and determined, though somewhat domineering disposition, and was anxious
to distinguish himself in the work of exploration. He declined to undertake the expedition
in the manner proposed by Governor Brisbane, but offered to conduct a party of convicts from
Sydney to the southern coasts. A sea-captain named Hovell asked permission to accompany him.
With these two as leaders, and six convict servants to make up the party, they set out from
Lake George, carrying their provisions in two carts, drawn by teams of oxen. As soon as they
met the Murrumbidgee their troubles commenced; the river was so broad and swift that it was
difficult to see how they could carry their goods across. Hume covered the carts with tarpaulin,
so as to make them serve as punts. Then he swam across the river, carrying the end of a rope
between his teeth; and with this he pulled over the loaded punts. The men and oxen then swam
across, and once more pushed forward. But the country through which they had now to pass was
so rough and woody that they were obliged to abandon their carts and load the oxen with their
provisions. They journeyed on, through hilly country, beneath the shades of deep and far-spreading
forests; to their left they sometimes caught a glimpse of the snow-capped peaks of the Australian
Alps, and at length they reached the banks of a clear and rapid stream, which they called the
Hume, but which is now known as the Murray. Their carts being no longer available, they had
to construct boats of wicker-work and cover them with tarpaulin. Having crossed the river,
they entered the lightly timbered slopes to the north of Victoria, and holding their course
south-west, they discovered first the river Ovens, and then a splendid stream which they called
the Hovell, now known as the Goulburn. Their great object, however, was to reach the ocean,
and every morning when they left their camping-place they were sustained by the hope of coming,
before evening, in view of the open sea. But day after day passed, without any prospect of
a termination to their journey. Hume and Hovell, seeing a high peak at some little distance,
left the rest of the party to themselves for a few days, and with incredible labour ascended
the mountain, in the expectation of beholding from its summit the great Southern Ocean in the
distance. Nothing was to be seen, however, but the waving tops of gum trees rising ridge after
ridge away to the south. Wearily they retraced their steps to the place where the others were
encamped. They called this peak Mount Disappointment. Having altered the direction of their
course a little, in a few days they were rejoiced by the sight of a great expanse of water.
Passing through country which they declared to resemble, in its freshness and beauty, the well-kept
park of an English nobleman, they reached a bay, which the natives called Geelong. Here a dispute
took place between the leaders, Hovell asserting that the sheet of water before them was Western
Port, Hume that it was Port Phillip. Hume expressed the utmost contempt for Hovell's ignorance;
Hovell retorted with sarcasms on Hume's dogmatism and conceit; and the rest of the journey
was embittered by so great an amount of ill-feeling that the two explorers were never again
on friendly terms. Hume's careful and sagacious observations of the route by which they had
come enabled him to lead the party rapidly and safely back to Sydney, where the leaders were
rewarded with grants of land and the convicts with tickets-of-leave.

#4. Captain Sturt.#--The long drought which occurred between 1826 and 1828 suggested to Governor
Darling the idea that, as the swamps which had impeded Oxley's progress would be then dried
up, the exploration of the river Macquarie would not present the same difficulties as formerly.
The charge of organising an expedition was given to Captain Sturt, who was to be accompanied
by Hume, with a party of two soldiers and eight convicts. They carried with them portable boats;
but when they reached the Macquarie they found its waters so low as to be incapable of floating
them properly. Trudging on foot along the banks of the river they reached the place where Oxley
had turned back. It was no longer a marsh; but, with the intense heat, the clay beneath their
feet was baked and hard; there was the same dreary stretch of reeds, now withered and yellow
under the glare of the sun. Sturt endeavoured to penetrate this solitude, but the physical
exertion of pushing their way through the reeds was too great for them. If they paused to rest,
they were almost suffocated in the hot and pestilent air; the only sound they could hear was
the distant booming of the bittern, and a feeling of the most lonely wretchedness pervaded
the scene. At length they were glad to leave this dismal region and strike to the west through
a flat and monotonous district where the shells and claws of crayfish told of frequent inundations.
Through this plain there flowed a river, which Sturt called the Darling, in honour of the Governor.
They followed this river for about ninety miles, and then took their way back to Sydney, Sturt
being now able to prove that the belief in the existence of a great inland sea was erroneous.

#5. The Murray.#--In 1829, along with a naturalist named Macleay, Sturt was again sent out
to explore the interior, and on this occasion carried his portable boats to the Murrumbidgee,
on which he embarked his party of eight convicts. They rowed with a will, and soon took the
boat down the river beyond its junction with the Lachlan. The stream then became narrow, a
thick growth of overhanging trees shut out the light from above, while, beneath, the rushing
waters bore them swiftly over dangerous snags and through whirling rapids, until they were
suddenly shot out into the broad surface of a noble stream which flowed gently over its smooth
bed of sand and pebbles. This river they called the Murray; but it was afterwards found to
be only the lower portion of the stream which had been crossed by Hume and Hovell several years
before.

Sturt's manner of journeying was to row from sunrise to sunset, then land on the banks of the
river and encamp for the night. This exposed the party to some dangers from the suspicious
natives, who often mustered in crowds of several hundreds; but Sturt's kindly manner and pleasant
smile always converted them into friends, so that the worst mishap he had to record was the
loss of his frying-pan and other utensils, together with some provisions, which were stolen
by the blacks in the dead of night. After twilight the little encampment was often swarming
with dark figures; but Sturt joined in their sports, and Macleay especially became a great
favourite with them by singing comic songs, at which the dusky crowds roared with laughter.
The natives are generally good-humoured, if properly managed; and throughout Sturt's trip the
white men and the blacks contrived to spend a very friendly and sociable time together.

After following the Murray for about two hundred miles below the Lachlan they reached a place
where a large river flowed from the north into the Murray. This was the mouth of the river
Darling, which Sturt himself had previously discovered and named. He now turned his boat into
it, in order to examine it for a short distance; but after they had rowed a mile or two they
came to a fence of stakes, which the natives had stretched across the river for the purpose
of catching fish. Rather than break the fence, and so destroy the labours of the blacks, Sturt
turned to sail back. The natives had been concealed on the shore to watch the motions of the
white men, and seeing their considerate conduct, they came forth upon the bank and gave a loud
shout of satisfaction. The party in the boat unfurled the British flag, and answered with three
hearty cheers, as they slowly drifted down with the current. This humane disposition was characteristic
of Captain Sturt, who, in after life, was able to say that he had never--either directly or
indirectly--caused the death of a black fellow.

When they again entered on the Murray they were carried gently by the current--first to the
west, then to the south; and, as they went onward, they found the river grow deeper and wider,
until it spread into a broad sheet of water, which they called Lake Alexandrina, after the
name of our present Queen, who was then the Princess Alexandrina Victoria. On crossing this
lake they found the passage to the ocean blocked up by a great bar of sand, and were forced
to turn their boat round and face the current, with the prospect of a toilsome journey of a
thousand miles before they could reach home. They had to work hard at their oars, Sturt taking
his turn like the rest. At length they entered the Murrumbidgee; but their food was now failing,
and the labour of pulling against the stream was proving too great for the men, whose limbs
began to grow feeble and emaciated. Day by day they struggled on, swinging more and more wearily
at their oars, their eyes glassy and sunken with hunger and toil, and their minds beginning
to wander as the intense heat of the midsummer sun struck on their heads. One man became insane;
the others frequently lay down, declaring that they could not row another stroke, and were
quite willing to die. Sturt animated them, and, with enormous exertions, he succeeded in bringing
the party to the settled districts, where they were safe. They had made known the greatest
river of Australia and traversed one thousand miles of unknown country, so that this expedition
was by far the most important that had yet been made into the interior; and Sturt, by land,
with Flinders, by sea, stands first on the roll of Australian discoverers.

#6. Mitchell.#--The next traveller who sought to fill up the blank map of Australia was Major
Mitchell. Having offered, in 1831, to conduct an expedition to the north-west, he set out with
fifteen convicts and reached the Upper Darling; but two of his men, who had been left behind
to bring up provisions, were speared by the blacks, and the stores plundered. This disaster
forced the company soon after to return. In 1835, when the major renewed his search, he was
again unfortunate. The botanist of the party, Richard Cunningham, brother of the Allan Cunningham
already mentioned, was treacherously killed by the natives; and, finally, the determined hostility
of the blacks brought the expedition to an ignominious close.

In 1836 Major Mitchell undertook an expedition to the south, and in this he was much more successful.
Taking with him a party of twenty-five convicts, he followed the Lachlan to its junction with
the Murrumbidgee. Here he stayed for a short time to explore the neighbouring country; but
the party was attacked by hordes of natives, some of whom were shot. The major then crossed
the Murray; and, from a mountain top in the Lodden district, he looked forth on a land which
he declared to be like the Garden of Eden. On all sides rich expanses of woodland and grassy
plains stretched away to the horizon, watered by abundant streams. They then passed along the
slopes of the Grampians and discovered the river Glenelg, on which they embarked in the boats
which they had carried with them. The scenery along this stream was magnificent; luxurious
festoons of creepers hung from the banks, trailing downwards in the eddying current, and partly
concealing the most lovely grottos which the current had wrought out of the pure white banks
of limestone. The river wound round abrupt hills and through verdant valleys, which made the
latter part of their journey to the sea most agreeable and refreshing. Being stopped by the
bar at the mouth of the Glenelg, they followed the shore for a short distance eastward, and
then turned towards home. Portland Bay now lay on their right, and Mitchell made an excursion
to explore it. What was his surprise to see a neat cottage on the shore, with a small schooner
in front of it at anchor in the bay. This was the lonely dwelling of the brothers Henty, who
had crossed from Tasmania and founded a whaling station at Portland Bay. On Mitchell's return
he had a glorious view from the summit of Mount Macedon, and what he saw induced him, on his
return to Sydney, to give to the country the name "Australia Felix". As a reward for his important
services he received a vote of one thousand pounds from the Council at Sydney, and he was shortly
afterwards knighted; so that he is now known as Sir Thomas Mitchell.

CHAPTER VIII.

PORT PHILLIP, 1800-1840.

#1. Discovery of Port Phillip.#--The discovery of Bass Strait in 1798 had rendered it possible
for the captains of ships bound for Sydney to shorten somewhat their voyage thither; and as
this was recognised by the English Government to be a great advantage, a small vessel, the
Lady Nelson, was sent out under the command of Lieutenant Grant, in order to make a thorough
exploration of the passage. She reached the Australian coast at the boundary between the two
present colonies of Victoria and South Australia. Grant called the cape he first met with Cape
Northumberland. He saw and named Cape Nelson, Portland Bay, Cape Schanck, and other features
of the coast. When he arrived in Sydney he called the attention of Governor King to a small
inlet which he had not been able to examine, although it seemed to him of importance. In 1802
the Governor sent back the Lady Nelson, now under the command of Lieutenant Murray, to explore
this inlet. Lieutenant Murray entered it, and found that a narrow passage led to a broad sheet
of water, thoroughly landlocked, though of very considerable extent. He reported favourably
of the beauty and fertility of its shores, and desired to name it Port King, in honour of the
Governor; but Governor King requested that this tribute should be paid to the memory of his
old commander, the first Australian Governor, and thus the bay received its present name, Port
Phillip. Only sixty days later Flinders also entered the bay; but when he arrived, some time
afterwards, in Sydney, he was surprised to find he was not the first discoverer.

It was at this time that the Governor in Sydney was afraid of the intrusion of the French upon
Australian soil, and when he heard how favourable the appearance of this port was for settlement
he resolved to have it more carefully explored. Accordingly he sent a small schooner, the Cumberland,
under the charge of Mr. Robbins, to make the examination. The vessel carried Charles Grimes,
the Surveyor-General of New South Wales, and his assistant, Meehan; also a surgeon named M'Callum,
and a liberated convict named Flemming, who was to report on the agricultural capabilities
of the district.

On arriving at Port Phillip they commenced a systematic survey, Robbins sounding the bay, and
making a careful chart, while the other four were every morning landed on the shore to examine
the country. They walked ten or fifteen miles each day, and in the evening were again taken
on board the schooner. Thus they walked from the site of Sorrento round by Brighton till they
reached the river Yarra, which they described as a large fresh-water stream, but without naming
it. Then they went round the bay as far as Geelong. They carried a good chart and several long
reports to the Governor at Sydney, who would probably have sent a party down to settle by the
Yarra, had it not been that an expedition had already set sail from England for the purpose
of occupying the shores of Port Phillip.

#2. Governor Collins.#--This was the expedition of David Collins, already mentioned. He brought
out nearly 400 persons, of whom over 300 were convicts. There is good reason to believe that
Collins from the first would have preferred to settle at the Derwent, in Tasmania, but at any
rate he carried out his work at Port Phillip in a very half-hearted manner. Tuckey chose for
the settlement a sandy shore at Sorrento, where scarcely a drop of fresh water was to be had,
and where the blazing sun of midsummer must have been unusually trying to a crowd of people
fresh from colder climates.

It soon became apparent that the site selected would never prove suitable, and Collins sent
Lieutenant Tuckey in search of a better place. That officer seems to have made a very inefficient
search. He found no river, and no stream better than the little one on which the town of Frankston
now stands. Here he was attacked by a great crowd of blacks, and had a conflict with them sufficiently
severe to prevent his landing again. He was thus debarred from exploration by land, and the
stormy weather prevented him from remaining long in the open bay. Tuckey therefore returned
with a very gloomy report, and increased the despondency of the little community. Every one
was dull and dispirited, except the two or three children who had been allowed to accompany
their convict parents. Among these, the leader of all their childish sports, was a little lad
named John Pascoe Fawkner, who was destined to be afterwards of note in the history of Port
Phillip. Everybody grew dispirited under the heat, the want of fresh water, and the general
wretchedness of the situation; and very soon all voices were unanimous in urging the Governor
to remove. Collins then sent a boat, with letters, to Sydney, and Governor King gave him permission
to cross over to Tasmania. He lost not a moment in doing so, and founded the settlement at
the Derwent, to which reference has already been made.

Before he left, there were four convicts who took advantage of the confusion to escape into
the bush, hoping to make their way to Sydney. One returned, footsore and weary, just in time
to be taken on board; the other three were not again seen. Two are believed to have perished
of hunger, and thirty-two years passed away before the fate of the third was discovered.

#3. Western Port.#--When Hume and Hovell returned to Sydney after their exploring expedition,
Hovell insisted that the fine harbour he had seen was Western Port. He had really been at Geelong
Harbour, but was all that distance astray in his reckoning. Induced by his report, the Government
sent an expedition under Captain Wright to form a settlement at Western Port. Hovell went with
him to give the benefit of his experience. They landed on Phillip Island; but the want of a
stream of permanent water was a disadvantage, and soon after they crossed to the mainland on
the eastern shore, where they founded a settlement, building wooden huts and one or two brick
cottages. Hovell had now to confess that the place he had formerly seen was not Western Port,
and he went off in search of the fine country he had previously seen, but came back disappointed.
The settlement struggled onward for about a year, and was then withdrawn.

It is not easy to explain in a few words why they abandoned their dwellings and the land they
had begun to cultivate. It seems to have been due to a general discontent. However, there were
private settlers in Tasmania who would have carried out the undertaking with much more energy.
For in Tasmania the sheep had been multiplying at a great rate, while the amount of clear and
grassy land in that island was very limited. One of the residents in Tasmania, named John Batman,
who has been already mentioned, conceived the idea of forming an association among the Tasmanian
sheep-owners, for the purpose of crossing Bass Strait and occupying with their flocks the splendid
grassy lands which explorers had seen there.

#4. Batman.#--John Batman was a native of Parramatta, but when he was about twenty-one years
of age he had left his home to seek his fortune in Tasmania. There he had taken up land and
had settled down to the life of a sheep-farmer in the country around Ben Lomond. But he was
fond of a life of adventure, and found enough of excitement for a time in the troubled state
of the colony. It was he who captured Brady, the leader of the bushrangers, and he became well
known during the struggle with the natives on account of his success in dealing with them and
in inducing them to surrender peaceably. But when all these troubles were over, and he had
to settle down to the monotonous work of drafting and driving sheep, he found his land too
rocky to support his flocks. Knowing that others in Tasmania were in the same difficulty, he
and his friend Gellibrand, a lawyer in Hobart, in the year 1827 asked permission to occupy
the grassy lands supposed to be round Western Port, but the Governor in Sydney refused. In
1834 some of them resolved to go without permission, and an association of thirteen members
resolved to send sheep over to Port Phillip, which was now known to be the more suitable harbour.

Before they sent the sheep, they resolved to send some one to explore and report. John Batman
naturally volunteered, and the association chartered for him a little vessel, the Rebecca,
in which, after nineteen days of sea-sickness and miserable tossing in the strait, he succeeded
in entering Port Phillip on the 29th of May, 1835. Next morning he landed near Geelong and
walked to the top of the Barrabool Hills, wading most of the way through grass knee-deep. On
the following day he went in search of the aboriginals, and met a party of about twenty women,
together with a number of children. With these he soon contrived to be on friendly terms; and
after he had distributed among them looking-glasses, blankets, handkerchiefs, apples and sugar,
he left them very well satisfied.

#5. The Yarra.# A day or two later the Rebecca anchored in Hobson's Bay, in front of the ti-tree
scrub and the lonely shores where now the streets of Williamstown extend in all directions.
Batman again started on foot to explore that river whose mouth lay there in front of him. With
fourteen men, all well armed, he passed up the river banks; but, being on the left side, he
naturally turned up that branch which is called the Saltwater, instead of the main stream.
After two days of walking through open grassy lands, admirably suited for sheep, they reached
the site of Sunbury. From a hill at that place they could see fires about twenty miles to the
south-east; and, as they were anxious to meet the natives, they bent their steps in that direction
till they overtook a native man, with his wife and three children. To his great satisfaction,
he learnt that these people knew of his friendly meeting with the women in the Geelong district.
They guided him to the banks of the Merri Creek, to the place where their whole tribe was encamped.
He stayed with them all night, sleeping in a pretty grassy hollow beside the stream. In the
morning he offered to buy a portion of their land, and gave them a large quantity of goods,
consisting of scissors, knives, blankets, looking-glasses, and articles of this description.
In return, they granted him all the land stretching from the Merri Creek to Geelong. Batman
had the documents drawn up, and on the Northcote Hill, overlooking the grass-covered flats
of Collingwood and the sombre forests of Carlton and Fitzroy, the natives affixed their marks
to the deeds, by which Batman fancied he was legally put in possession of 600,000 acres. Trees
were cut with notches, in order to fix the boundaries, and in the afternoon Batman took leave
of his black friends. He had not gone far before he was stopped by a large swamp, and so slept
for the night under the great gum trees which then spread their shade over the ground now covered
by the populous streets of West Melbourne. In the morning he found his way round the swamp,
and in trying to reach the Saltwater came upon a noble stream, which was afterwards called
the Yarra. In the evening he reached his vessel in the bay. Next day he ascended the Yarra
in a boat; and when he came to the Yarra Falls, he wrote in his diary, "This will be the place
for a village," unconscious that he was gazing upon the site of a great and busy city. Returning
to Indented Head, near the heads of Port Phillip, he left three white men and his Sydney natives
to cultivate the soil and retain possession of the land he supposed himself to have purchased.
Then he set sail for Tasmania, where he and his associates began to prepare for transporting
their households, their sheep and their cattle, to the new country.

#6. The Henty Brothers.#--But even earlier than this period a quiet settlement had been made
in the western parts of Victoria. There, as early as 1828, sealers had dwelt at Portland Bay,
had built their little cottages and formed their little gardens. But they were unauthorised,
and could only be regarded by the British Government as intruders, having no legal right to
the land they occupied. In 1834, however, there came settlers of another class--Edward, Stephen,
and Frank Henty. Their father--a man of some wealth--had in 1828 emigrated with all his family
to Western Australia, carrying with him large quantities of fine stock. But the settlement
at Swan River proving a failure, he had removed to Tasmania, where his six sons all settled.
Very soon they found the pastoral lands of Tasmania too limited, and as Edward Henty had in
one of his coasting voyages seen the sealers at Portland Bay and noticed how numerous the whales
were in that bay, and how fine the grassy lands that lay within, he chartered a vessel, the
Thistle, and crossed in her to settle at Portland Bay with servants, sheep, cattle, and horses.

The land was all that had been anticipated, and soon Frank, and then Stephen, arrived, with
more stock and more men to tend them. Houses and stores were put up, and fields were ploughed.
Ere long other settlers followed, and in the course of five or six years all the district lying
inland from Portland Bay was well settled and covered with sheep, while at Portland Bay itself
so many whales were caught that there were not tanks enough to hold the oil, and much of it
was wasted. The English Government after some delay agreed to sell land to the settlers, and
before 1840 a thriving little town stood on the shores of Portland Bay.

#7. Fawkner.#--John Pascoe Fawkner, who, as a boy, had landed at Sorrento in 1803, had grown
up to manhood in Tasmania through stormy times, and had at length settled down as an innkeeper
in Launceston; with that business, however, combining the editing and publishing of a small
newspaper. For he was always a busy and active-minded worker, and had done a great deal to
make up for the defective education of his earlier years. When Batman arrived in Launceston
with the news of the fine pastoral country across the water, Fawkner became quite excited at
the prospects that seemed possible over there. He accordingly began to agitate for the formation
of another association, and five members joined him. At his expense, the schooner Enterprise
was chartered and loaded with all things necessary for a small settlement. On the 27th July,
1835, he set sail from Launceston; but the weather was so rough that, after three days and
two nights of inexpressible sickness, Fawkner found himself still in sight of the Tasmanian
coast. He therefore asked to be put ashore, and left Captain Lancey to manage the trip as he
thought best. The captain took the vessel over to Western Port, as had been originally arranged;
but the land there was not nearly so good as they understood it to be in the Port Phillip district.
So they sailed round and safely anchored in Hobson's Bay, bringing with them horses and ploughs,
grain, fruit trees, materials for a house, boats, provisions, and, indeed, everything that
a small settlement could want. Getting out their boat, they entered upon the stream which they
saw before them; but, unfortunately, they turned up the wrong arm, and, after rowing many miles,
were forced to turn back, the water all the way being salt and unfit for drinking. For this
reason they called this stream the Saltwater; but next morning they started again and tried
the other branch. After pulling for about an hour and a half they reached a basin in the river
whose beauty filled them with exultation and delight. A rocky ledge over which the river flowed
kept the water above it fresh; the soil was rich, and covered with splendid grass, and they
instantly came to the conclusion to settle in this favoured spot. Next day they towed the vessel
up, and landed where the Custom House now is. At night they slept beside the falls, where the
air was fragrant with the sweet scent of the wattle trees just bursting into bloom.

They had not been on the river many days before Mr. Wedge--one of Batman's party--in crossing
the country from Indented Head to the Yarra, was astonished to see the masts of a vessel rising
amid the gum trees. On reaching the river bank, what was his surprise to find, in that lonely
spot, a vessel almost embedded in the woods, and the rocks and glades echoing to the sound
of hammer and saw and the encouraging shouts of the ploughmen! Wedge informed Fawkner's party
that they were trespassers on land belonging to John Batman and Company. Captain Lancey, having
heard the story of the purchase, declared that such a transaction could have no value. When
Wedge was gone, the settlers laid their axes to the roots of the trees, and began to clear
the land for extensive cultivation. A fortnight later Wedge brought round all his party from
Indented Head in order to occupy what Batman had marked as the site for a village, and the
two rival parties were encamped side by side where the western part of Collins Street now stands.
A little later Fawkner arrived with further settlers and with a wooden house, which he soon
erected by the banks of the Yarra, the first regularly built house of Melbourne. He placed
it by the side of the densely wooded stream, which was afterwards turned into Elizabeth Street.
Great crowds of black and white cockatoos raised their incessant clamour at the first strokes
of the axe; but soon the hillside was clear, and man had taken permanent possession of the spot.

#8. William Buckley.#--Meanwhile a circumstance had happened which favoured Batman's party
in no small degree. The men left at Indented Head were surprised one morning to see an extremely
tall figure advancing towards them. His hair was thickly matted; his skin was brown, but not
black, like that of the natives; he was almost naked, and he carried the ordinary arms of the
aborigines. This was William Buckley, the only survivor of the three convicts who had escaped
from Governor Collins's expedition. He had dwelt for thirty-two years among the natives. During
this long time he had experienced many strange adventures, but had not exercised the smallest
influence for good upon the natives. He was content to sink at once to their level, and to
lead the purely animal life they led. But when he heard that there was a party of whites on
Indented Head, whom the Geelong tribes proposed to murder, he crossed to warn them of their
danger. Batman's party clothed him and treated him well, and for a time he acted as interpreter,
smoothing over many of the difficulties that arose with the natives, and rendering the formation
of the settlement much less difficult than it might have been.

#9. Excitement in Tasmania.#--The news taken over by Batman caused a commotion in Tasmania.
Many settlers crossed in search of the new country, and, before a year had passed, nearly two
hundred persons, with more than 15,000 sheep, had landed on the shores of Port Phillip. But
they soon spread over a great extent of country--from Geelong to Sunbury. They were in the
midst of numerous black tribes, who now, too late, began to perceive the nature of Batman's
visit, and commenced to seek revenge. Frequent attacks were made, in one of which a squatter
and his servant were killed beside the Werribee. Their bodies lie buried in the Flagstaff Gardens.

#10. Governor Bourke.#--These were not the only troubles of the settlers; for the Sydney Government
declared that all purchases of land from ignorant natives were invalid, and Governor Bourke
issued a proclamation, warning the people at Port Phillip against fixing their homes there,
as the land did not legally belong to them.

Still new settlers flocked over, and a township began to be formed on the banks of the Yarra.
Batman's association found that their claims to the land granted them by the natives would
not be allowed; and, after some correspondence on the subject with the Home Government, they
had to be content with 28,000 acres, as compensation for the money they had expended.

#11. Lonsdale.#--Towards the close of 1836 Governor Bourke found himself compelled to recognise
the new settlement, and sent Captain Lonsdale to act as a magistrate; thirty soldiers accompanied
him to maintain order and protect the settlers. Next year (1837) the Governor himself arrived
at Port Phillip, where he found the settlers now numbering 500. He planned out the little town,
giving names to its streets, and finally settling that it should be called Melbourne, after
Lord Melbourne, who was then the Prime Minister of England.

#12. Latrobe.#--in 1838 Geelong began to grow into a township, and the settlers spread west
as far as Colac. Next year Mr. Latrobe was sent to take charge of the whole district of Port
Phillip, under the title of Superintendent, but with almost all the powers of a Governor. The
settlers held a public meeting, in an auction-room at Market Square, for the purpose of according
a hearty welcome to their new Governor, whose kindliness and upright conduct soon made him
a great favourite.

A wattle-and-daub building was put up as a police-office, on the site of the Western Markets,
where it did duty for some time, until one night it fell; some say because it was undermined
by a party of imprisoned natives; but others, because a bull belonging to Mr. Batman had rushed
against it. A court-house was erected, and four policemen appointed. A post-office next followed,
and, one by one, the various institutions of a civilised community arose in miniature form.
Numerous ships began to enter the bay, and a lucrative trade sprang up with Tasmania. In 1838
the first newspaper appeared. It was due to the enterprise of Fawkner. Every Monday morning
sheets containing four pages of writing were distributed to the subscribers, under the title
of the Advertiser. After nine issues of this kind had been published, a parcel of old refuse
type was sent over from Tasmania; and a young man being found in the town who had, in his boyhood,
spent a few months in a printing office, he was pressed into the service, and thenceforward
the Advertiser appeared in a printed form--the pioneer of the press of Victoria. Mr. Batman
had fixed his residence not far from the place now occupied by the Spencer Street Railway Station.
Here, in the year 1839, he was seized with a violent cold; and, after being carefully nursed
by one of his daughters, died without seeing more than the beginning of that settlement he
had laboured so hard to found. Mr. Fawkner lived to an advanced age, and saw the city--whose
first house he had built--become a vast metropolis.

The year 1839 brought further increase to the population; and before the beginning of 1840
there were 3,000 persons, with 500 houses and 70 shops, in Melbourne. In 1841, within five
years of its foundation, it contained 11,000 persons and 1,500 houses.

CHAPTER IX.

SOUTH AUSTRALIA, 1836-1841.

#1. Edward Gibbon Wakefield.#--In 1829 a small book was published in London which attracted
a great deal of attention, not only by reason of its charming style and the liveliness of its
manner, but also on account of the complete originality of the ideas it contained. It purported
to be a letter written from Sydney, and described the annoyances to be endured by a man of
taste and fortune if he emigrated to Australia. He could have no intellectual society; he could
not enjoy the pleasures of his library or of his picture gallery; he could hope for none of
the delights of easy retirement, seeing that he had to go forth on his land, and with his own
hands labour for his daily food. For, said Mr. Wakefield, the author of this little book, you
cannot long have free servants in this country; if a free man arrives in the colony, though
he may for a short time work for you as a servant, yet he is sure to save a little money, and
as land is here so excessively cheap, he soon becomes a landed proprietor. He settles down
on his farm, and, though he may have a year or two of heavy toil, yet he is almost certain
to become both happy and prosperous. Thus, the colony is an excellent place for a poor man,
but it is a wretched abode for a man of means and of culture. Wakefield therefore proposed
to found in Australia another colony, which should be better adapted to those who had fortunes
sufficient to maintain them and yet desired to emigrate to a new country. His scheme for effecting
this purpose was to charge a high price for the land, and so to prevent the poorer people from
purchasing it; the money received from the sale of land he proposed to employ in bringing out
young men and women, as servants and farm labourers, for the service of the wealthier colonists.
Now, said Wakefield, on account of the immense natural resources of these colonies, their splendid
soil, their magnificent pasture lands, their vast wealth in minerals, and their widespread
forests of valuable timber, which stand ready for the axe, a gentleman possessed of only £20,000
will obtain as large an income from it as could be procured from £100,000 in England; yet he
will be able to enjoy his learned and cultured leisure, just as he does at home, because all
the work will be done for him by the servants he employs. For three or four years this agreeable
fallacy made quite a stir in England: famous authors, distinguished soldiers, learned bishops
were deceived by it; noblemen, members of Parliament, bankers and merchants, all combined to
applaud this novel and excellent idea of Mr. Wakefield.

#2. South Australian Association.#--in 1831 the first effort was made to give a practical turn
to these theories, and the southern shores of Australia were selected as a suitable locality
for the proposed colony. A company was formed; but when it applied to the British Government
for a charter, which would have conceded the complete sovereignty of the whole southern region
of Australia, Lord Goderich, the Secretary of State, replied that it was asking a great deal
too much, and abruptly closed the negotiation. Two years later the South Australian Association
was formed, and as this company asked for nothing beyond the power to sell waste lands and
apply the proceeds to assist immigration, the British Government gave its consent, and an Act
was passed by the Imperial Parliament to give the association full power to found a colony.
This Act directed that commissioners should be appointed to frame laws for the colony, to establish
courts, and to nominate its officers; land was to be thrown open for sale at not less than
twelve shillings an acre, and even this comparatively high price was to be raised, after a
short time, to £1 per acre, in order to keep the land in the hands of the wealthy. It was expressly
stated that no convict would be allowed to land in the new settlement, which, it was hoped,
would become in every respect a model community. The British Government declined to incur any
expense in establishing or in maintaining the colony, which was to be purely self-supporting.
Eleven commissioners were appointed, of whom Colonel Torrens was chairman in England, and Mr.
Fisher the representative in Australia, where he was to take charge of the sale of lands and
supervise the affairs of the colony. At the same time, Captain Hindmarsh was appointed Governor,
and Colonel Light was sent out to survey the waste lands preparatory to their being offered
for sale.

In May, 1835, during the very month in which Batman was wandering for the first time on the
banks of the Yarra, these appointments for the foundation of a fourth Australian colony were
being published in the English Government Gazette. Thus Victoria and South Australia took their
widely different origins at almost the same time; but while the first actual settlers landed
at Port Phillip towards the end of 1835, the pioneers of South Australia did not reach that
colony until the middle of 1836.

#3. Adelaide.#--The first emigrants to South Australia landed on Kangaroo Island, of which
Flinders had given a most attractive account; but though the place was beautifully wooded,
and of the most picturesque aspect, it was found to be in many respects unsuitable for the
foundation of a city; and when Colonel Light shortly afterwards arrived with his staff of surveyors,
he at once decided to remove the settlement to St. Vincent's Gulf. Here, about six miles from
the shores of the gulf, he selected a broad plain between the sea and the pleasant hills of
the Mount Lofty Range; and on the bank of a small stream, which he called the Torrens, he marked
out the lines of the infant city. Queen Adelaide was the wife of the reigning King of England,
and, as she was exceedingly popular, the colonists, with enthusiasm, adopted her name for their
capital. A harbour was found seven miles distant from the city, and on it a town was established,
to which the name Port Adelaide was given.

#4. Governor Hindmarsh.#--In December, 1836, Governor Hindmarsh landed, and beneath a spreading
gum tree near the beach he read his commission to a small audience of emigrants and officials;
but when he proceeded to examine what had been done, he was filled with disgust and indignation.
The only landing-place for vessels was in the midst of a mangrove swamp at the mouth of a muddy
little creek; and all goods would have to be carried six or seven miles inland to the city.
To a sailor's eye, it seemed the most reckless folly to make so unusual a choice, and he at
once determined to remove the settlement to Encounter Bay; but neither Colonel Light nor Mr.
Fisher would permit any change to be made, and a violent quarrel took place. As resident commissioner,
Mr. Fisher had powers equal to those of the Governor, and was thus enabled to prolong the contest.
Of the settlers, some sided with the Governor; others gave their support to the commissioner,
and the colony was quickly divided into two noisy factions. After fourteen months of constant
wrangling, the English Government interfered. Mr. Fisher was dismissed and Governor Hindmarsh
recalled, while the offices of both were conferred on Colonel Gawler, who arrived in the colony
during the year 1838.

#5. Early Failures.#--The Wakefield system could not possibly realise the hopeful anticipations
which had been formed of it; for the foundation of a new colony and the reclaiming of the lonely
forest wilds are not to be accomplished by merely looking on at the exertions of hired servants.
Ladies and gentlemen who had, in England, paid for land they had never seen, were, on their
arrival, greatly disgusted at the sight of the toils before them. They had to pull their luggage
through the dismal swamp, for there were neither porters nor cabs in waiting; they had to settle
down in canvas tents, on a grassy plain, which was called a city, but where a few painted boards
here and there, fastened to the trunks of gum trees, were the only indications of streets.
Then, when they went out to see their estates, and beheld great stretches of rude and unpromising
wilderness--when they considered how many years must pass away before there could possibly
arise the terraces and gardens, the orchards and grassy lawns, which make an English country-house
delightful--their courage failed them, and, instead of going forth upon the land, they clustered
together in Adelaide. Every one wished to settle down in the city, and as it was expected that,
with the growth of population, the value of town allotments would rapidly increase, the idea
became prevalent that to buy land in the city and keep it for sale in future years would be
a profitable investment. But there were so many who entertained the same astute design that,
when they all came to put it in practice, there was little gain to any one; and the only result
was that Adelaide was turned into a scene of reckless speculation and gambling in land.

#6. Governor Gawler.#--Meantime poorer emigrants were arriving in expectation of obtaining
employment from their wealthier predecessors, who had been able to pay the high price demanded
for land. They found that those whom they expected to be their employers had abandoned the
idea of going out into the country to cultivate the soil. There was, therefore, nothing for
them to do; they had no money with which to speculate in town allotments, they had no land
on which to commence farming for themselves, and they were in a wretched plight. Provisions
had rapidly increased in price, so that flour rose from £20 to £80 per ton; no food was being
produced from the land, and nothing whatever was being done to develop the resources of the
colony, whilst the money which the settlers had brought with them was rapidly being spent in
importing shiploads of provisions from other countries.

In order to give employment to those of the settlers who were really destitute, Governor Gawler
commenced a series of Government works. He constructed a good road between Adelaide and its
port. He formed wharves, and reclaimed the unwholesome swamp; he built a Custom House, with
warehouses and many other costly buildings, the Government House alone costing £20,000. Now,
these were all in themselves very desirable things; but it was difficult to see how they were
to be paid for. Colonel Gawler spent nearly the whole of his own private fortune in paying
the wages of the unfortunate persons he employed, but that could not long support so great
a concourse of people. He persuaded merchants in England to send out provisions and clothing
for the famished people; but the only means he had of paying for these goods was by drafts
on the British Treasury, which were accepted at first as equivalent to money, for it was believed
that, whenever they were presented in London, payment would immediately be made by the British
Government. But this was a serious mistake: though the first series of drafts were paid readily
enough, yet when the authorities in England found that others, for larger and larger amounts,
continued to pour in, they refused to pay, and reminded the colony that, by the terms of its
charter, it was to be entirely self-supporting. A series of drafts, to the amount of £69,000,
were therefore dishonoured; and the merchants, finding the drafts to be worth no more than
so much paper, demanded their money from the Governor; but he had nothing with which to pay,
and the colony had to be declared insolvent, having debts to the amount of about £400,000 which
it could not meet.

#7. The Collapse.#--Matters were now in a very gloomy condition. Most of the colonists became
anxious to return to England, and therefore sought to sell their land. But when nearly all
wished to sell, and scarcely any wished to buy, the price went down to a trifle, and men who
had invested fortunes in town allotments, realised no more than enough to pay their passage
home. In the meantime the English merchants declined to send out any further supplies, and
those who had not the means of leaving Adelaide seemed in great danger of starving. But as
land could now be bought very cheaply, many industrious people of the poorer class settled
down to clear the country for farming. This was what should have been done at the very beginning;
for no colony can be prosperous, or look for anything but bankruptcy, until it commences to
produce grain, or wool, or minerals, or some other commodity with which it can purchase from
other lands the goods which they produce. The lands of South Australia are admirably adapted
for the growth of wheat; and, after a time, success attended the efforts of the farmers, who
thus laid the foundations of future prosperity.

Another industry was also added about this time. The young squatters of New South Wales, attracted
by the high prices given for sheep in the early days of Adelaide, had been daring enough, in
spite of the blacks and of the toilsome journey, to drive their flocks overland; and the new-comers
soon gave quite a wool-growing tone to the community. These "overlanders," as they were called,
affected a bandit style of dress; in their scarlet shirts and broad-brimmed hats, their belts
filled with pistols, and their horses gaily caparisoned, they caused a sensation in the streets
in Adelaide, which rang all evening with their merriment and dissipation. But as they brought
about fifty thousand sheep into the colony during the course of only a year or so, they were
of essential benefit to it. Many of them settled down and taught the new arrivals how to manage
flocks and prepare the wool, and thus they assisted in raising Adelaide from the state of despondency
and distress into which it had sunk.

#8. Recall of Governor Gawler.#--The British Government eventually decided to lend the colony
a sufficient sum of money to pay its debts; but it was resolved to make certain changes. The
eleven commissioners were abolished, Captain George Grey, a young officer, was appointed Governor;
and one day in May, 1841, he walked into the Government House at Adelaide, presented his commission
to Governor Gawler, and at once took the control of affairs into his own hands. This summary
mode of dismissing Governor Gawler must now be regarded as somewhat harsh; for he had laboured
hard and spent his money freely in trying to benefit the colony, and the mistakes which were
made during his administration were not so much due to his incapacity as to the impracticable
nature of the theory on which the colony had been founded. In 1841 he sailed for England, deeply
regretted by many who had experienced his kindness and generosity in their time of trouble.

CHAPTER X.

NEW SOUTH WALES, 1838-1850.

#1. Gipps.#--In 1838, when Governor Bourke left Australia to spend the remainder of his life
in the retirement of his native county in Ireland, he was succeeded in the government of New
South Wales by Sir George Gipps, an officer who had recently gained distinction by his services
in settling the affairs of Canada. The new Governor was a man of great ability, generous and
well meaning, but of a somewhat arbitrary nature. No Governor has ever laboured more assiduously
for the welfare of his people, and yet none has ever been more unpopular than Gipps. During
his term of office the colonists were constantly suffering from troubles, due, in most instances,
to themselves, but always attributed to others, and, as a rule, to the Governor. It is true
that the English Government, though actuated by a sincere desire to benefit and assist the
rising community, often aggravated these troubles by its crude and ill-informed efforts to
alleviate them. And as Sir George Gipps considered it his chief duty to obey literally and
exactly all the orders sent out by his superiors in England, however much he privately disapproved
of them, it was natural that he should receive much of the odium and derision attendant on
these injudicious attempts; but, on the whole, the troubles of the colony were due, not so
much to any fault of the Governor or to any error of the English Government, as to the imprudence
of the colonists themselves.

#2. Monetary Crisis.#--During twelve years of unalloyed prosperity, so many fortunes had been
made that the road to wealth seemed securely opened to all who landed in the colony. Thus it
became common for new arrivals to regard themselves, on their first landing, as already men
of fortune, and, presuming on their anticipated wealth, they often lived in an expensive and
extravagant style, very different from the prudent and abstemious life which can alone secure
to the young colonist the success he hopes for. In Sydney the most profuse habits prevailed,
and in Melbourne it seemed as if prosperity had turned the heads of the inhabitants. The most
expensive liquors were the ordinary beverages of waggoners and shepherds; and, on his visit
to Port Phillip in 1843, Governor Gipps found the suburbs of Melbourne thickly strewed with
champagne bottles, which seemed to him to tell a tale of extravagance and dissipation.

#3. Land Laws.#--Whilst many of the younger merchants were thus on their way to ruin, and the
great bulk of the community were kept impoverished by their habits, the English Government
brought matters to a crisis by its injudicious interference with the land laws. The early years
of South Australia, and its period of trouble, have been already described. In 1840 South Australia
was on the verge of bankruptcy, and the Wakefield policy of maintaining the land at a high
price had not produced the results anticipated. Now, many of the greatest men in England were
in favour of the Wakefield theory; and, in particular, the Secretary of State for the Colonies--that
is, the member of the British Government whose duty it is to attend to colonial affairs was
a warm supporter of the views of Wakefield; so that when the people of South Australia complained
that their scheme could not be successful so long as the other colonies charged so low a price
for their land, he sympathised with them in their trouble. "Who," they asked, "will pay one
pound an acre for land in South Australia, when, by crossing to Port Phillip, he can obtain
land equally good at five shillings an acre?" To prevent the total destruction of South Australia,
the Secretary of State ordered the other colonies to charge a higher price for land. New South
Wales was to be divided into three districts. (1) The Middle District, round Port Jackson,
where land was never to be sold for less than twelve shillings an acre. (2) The Northern District,
round Moreton Bay, where the same price was to be charged. (3) The Southern District, round
Port Phillip, where the land was of superior quality, and was never to be sold for less than
one pound an acre.

A great amount of discontent was caused throughout New South Wales by this order; but South
Australia was saved from absolute ruin, and the Secretary of State declined to recall the edict.
In vain it was urged that a great part of the land was not worth more than two or three shillings
an acre; the answer was that land was worth whatever people were willing to pay for it. For
a time it seemed as if this view had been sound, and land was eagerly purchased, even at the
advanced prices; in 1840 the amounts received from land sales were three times as great as
those received in 1838. But this was mostly the result of speculation, and disastrous effects
soon followed; for the prices paid by the purchasers were far above the real value of the land.
If a man brought a thousand pounds into the colony and paid it to the Government for a thousand
acres of land, he reckoned himself to be still worth a thousand pounds, and the banks would
be willing to lend him nearly a thousand pounds on the security of his purchase. But if he
endeavoured, after a year or two, to resell it, he would then discover its true value, and
find he was in reality possessed of only two or three hundred pounds: every purchaser had found
the land to be of less value than he had expected; every one was anxious to sell; and, there
being few buyers, most of it was sold at a ruinous price. Men who had borrowed money were unable
to pay their debts, and became insolvent. The banks, who had lent them money, were brought
to the verge of ruin; and one of the oldest--the Bank of Australia--became bankrupt in 1843,
and increased the confusion in monetary affairs. In order to pay their debts, the squatters
were now forced to sell their sheep and cattle; but there was scarcely any one willing to buy,
and the market being glutted, the prices went down to such an extent that sheep, which two
years before had been bought for thirty shillings, were gladly sold for eighteenpence. Indeed,
a large flock was sold in Sydney at sixpence per head. Fortunately, it was discovered by Mr.
O'Brien, a squatter living at Yass, that about six shillings worth of tallow could be obtained
from each sheep by boiling it down; and, if this operation had not been extensively begun by
many of the sheep-owners, they would, without doubt, have been completely ruined. So great
was the distress that, in 1843, the Governor issued provisions at less than cost price, in
order to prevent the starvation of large numbers of the people.

Yet, the Secretary of State in England knew nothing of all this, and in 1843 he raised the
price of land still higher, ordering that, throughout all Australia, no land should be sold
for less than one pound an acre.

#4. Immigration.#--It is not to be imagined, however, that the English Government ever took
to itself any of this land revenue. Every penny was used for the purpose of bringing immigrants
into the colony. Agents in Europe were appointed to select suitable persons, who received what
were called bounty orders. Any one who possessed an order of this kind received a free passage
to Sydney, all expenses being paid by the Colonial Government with the money received from
the sale of land. The Governor had the power of giving these orders to persons in New South
Wales, who sent them home to their friends or relatives, or to servants and labourers, whom
they wished to bring to the colonies. Now, Governor Gipps imagined that the land would continue
to bring in as much revenue every year as it did in 1840, and, in the course of that year and
the next, gave bounty orders to the extent of nearly one million pounds. But in 1841 the land
revenue fell to about one-twentieth of what it had been in 1840; so that the colony must have
become bankrupt had it not been that more than half of those who received bounty orders, hearing
of the unsettled state of the colony, never made use of the permission granted. Governor Gipps
was blamed by the colonists, and received from the Secretary of State a letter of sharp rebuke.

As for the immigrants who did arrive in New South Wales, their prospects were not bright. For
a long time many of them found it impossible to obtain employment. Great numbers landed friendless
and penniless in Sydney, and in a few weeks found themselves obliged to sleep in the parks,
or in the streets, and, but for the friendly exertions of a benevolent lady, Mrs. Chisholm,
who obtained employment at different times for about two thousand of them, their position would,
indeed, have been wretched.

Mrs. Chisholm founded a home for defenceless and friendless girls, of whom nearly six hundred
were at one time living in Sydney in destitution, having been sent out from home with bounty
orders, under the impression that employment was certain whenever they might land at Port Jackson.

Gradually the return of the colonists to habits of prudence and thrift removed the financial
distress which had been the primary cause of all these troubles. Land ceased to be bought at
the ruinously high rates, and goods returned to their former prices.

#5. Separation.#--But these were not the only cares which pressed upon the mind of Sir George
Gipps. He was entrusted with the management of the eastern half of Australia, a region stretching
from Cape York to Wilson's Promontory. There were, it is true, but 150,000 inhabitants in the
whole territory. But the people were widely scattered, and there were in reality two distinct
settlements--one consisting of 120,000 people round Sydney, the other of 30,000 round Port
Phillip. The latter, though small, was vigorous, and inclined to be discontented; it was six
hundred miles distant from the capital, and the delays and inconveniences due to this fact
caused it no little annoyance.

There was, indeed, a Superintendent in Melbourne, and to him the control of the southern district
was chiefly entrusted. But Mr. Latrobe was undecided and feeble. Though personally a most worthy
man, yet, as a ruler, he was much too timid and irresolute. He seldom ventured to take any
step on his own responsibility; no matter how urgent the matter was, he always waited for instructions
from his superior, the Governor.

Under these circumstances, it was natural that the people of Melbourne should wish for an independent
Governor, who would have full power to settle promptly all local affairs. In 1840 they held
a meeting in a room at the top of the hill in Bourke Street, to petition for separation from
New South Wales. But, next year, the Sydney people held a meeting in the theatre to protest
against it. Here, then, was another source of trouble to Gipps; for, from this time, the colony
was divided into two parties, eagerly and bitterly disputing on the separation question. Governor
Gipps and Mr. Latrobe were not in favour of separation, and, by their opposition, they incurred
the deep dislike of the people of Port Phillip. The authorities at home, however, were somewhat
inclined to favour the idea, and as Gipps was necessarily the medium of announcing their views
to the colonists, and carrying them into force, he became unpopular with the Sydney colonists
also. No man has ever occupied a more trying position; and a somewhat overbearing temperament
was not at all suited for smoothing away its difficulties.

#6. Representative Government.#--In 1842 a meeting was held in Sydney to petition for representative
government. The British Parliament saw its way clear to concede this privilege; and in July,
1843, the first representatives elected by the people assembled in Sydney. The new Council
consisted of thirty-six members, of whom twelve were either officials or persons nominated
by the Governor, and the other twenty-four were elective. It was the duty of this body to consult
with the Governor, and to see that the legitimate wishes of the people were attended to. Six
gentlemen were elected for Port Phillip; but residents of Melbourne found it impossible to
leave their business and go to live in Sydney. The people of Port Phillip were therefore forced
to elect Sydney gentlemen to take charge of their interests. However, these did their duty
excellently. Dr. Lang was especially active in the interests of his constituents, and in the
second session of the Council, during the year 1844, he moved that a petition should be presented
to the Queen, praying that the Port Phillip district should be separated from New South Wales,
and formed into an independent colony. The Port Phillip representatives, together with the
now famous Robert Lowe, gave their support to the motion; but there were nineteen votes against
it, and this effort was supposed to have been completely baffled. But Dr. Lang drew up a petition
of his own, which was signed by all the Port Phillip members and sent to England. Nothing further
was heard on the subject for some time, until Sir George Gipps received a letter from Lord
Stanley, the Secretary of State, directing him to lay the matter before the Executive Council
in Sydney; and stating that, in the opinion of the English Government, the request of Port
Phillip was very fair and reasonable. An inquiry was held, the Sydney Council sent to England
a report on the subject, and received a reply to the effect that steps would at once be taken
to obtain from the Imperial Parliament the required Act.

The people of Port Phillip were overjoyed, and in 1846 gave a grand banquet to Dr. Lang to
celebrate the occasion. But they were not destined to quite so speedy a consummation of their
desires. The English Government which had given so favourable an ear to their petition was
defeated and succeeded by another Government, to whom the whole question was new. Year after
year passed away, and the people of Port Phillip began to grow impatient, and to complain loudly
of their grievances. First of all, they complained that, although it was a well-recognised
principle that the money received by Government for the waste lands of any district should
be employed in bringing out emigrants to that district, yet the Sydney Government used much
of the money obtained from the sale of land in Port Phillip for the purpose of bringing out
new colonists--not to Melbourne or Geelong, but to Sydney itself. And thus, it was said, the
people of Sydney were using the money of the Port Phillip district for their own advantage.
And, again, the people of Melbourne complained that, although they were allowed to elect six
members of the Legislative Council, yet this was merely a mockery, because none of the Port
Phillip residents could afford to live in Sydney for five months every year and to neglect
their own private business. The former of these accusations seems, so far as we can now determine,
to have been unfounded; the latter was undoubtedly a practical grievance, though more or less
unavoidable in every system of representation.

#7. Earl Grey.#--For a year or two the English Government forgot all about the separation question;
and, in 1848, the wearied colonists at Port Phillip determined to call attention to their discontent.
Accordingly, when the elections for that year approached, they determined not to elect any
member, so that the English Government might see of how little use to them their supposed privilege
really was. It was agreed that no one should come forward for election, and it seemed likely
that there would be no election whatever, when a gentleman named Foster offered himself as
a candidate. This placed the non-election party in a dilemma; for if they declined to vote
at all, and if Mr. Foster could persuade only two or three of his friends to vote for him,
then, since there was no other candidate, he would be legally elected.

Now, at this time, Earl Grey was Secretary of State for the Colonies; and when some one proposed
to nominate him for election, in opposition to Mr. Foster, the idea was hailed as a happy one.
The non-election party could then vote for Earl Grey, and he would be returned by a large majority.
But Earl Grey, being an English nobleman and a member of the British Government, would certainly
never go to Sydney to attend a small Colonial Council; so that there would be, in reality,
no member elected. But the attention of the Secretary of State would be drawn to the desires
of the district. Earl Grey was triumphantly elected, and when the news went home it caused
some merriment. He was jokingly asked in the House of Lords when he would sail for Sydney.
And for several weeks he underwent so much banter on the subject that his attention was fully
aroused to the long-neglected question. He weighed the matter carefully, and, resolving to
do the people of Port Phillip full justice, sent out word that he would at once prepare a Bill
for the Imperial Parliament, in order to obtain the necessary powers. At the same time he intimated
that Queen Victoria would be pleased if the new colony should adopt her name. Nothing could
give the colonists more satisfaction, and they waited with patience until affairs should be
properly arranged in England.

#8. Sir Charles Fitzroy.#--All this agitation, however, had not taken place without much irritation
and contention between the people at Port Phillip and their Governor at Sydney, from whose
authority they wished to free themselves. Sir George Gipps had much to harass him, and in 1846
he was glad to retire from his troublesome position. He was succeeded by Sir Charles Fitzroy,
a gentleman in every respect his opposite. By no means clever, yet good-tempered and amiable,
he troubled himself very little with the affairs of the colony. The Sydney Council managed
everything just as it pleased; Sir Charles was glad to be rid of the trouble, and the colonists
were delighted to have their own way. As for the separation question, he cared very little
whether Port Phillip was erected into a colony or not.

In 1850 the news arrived that Port Phillip was to be separated from New South Wales, and in
the middle of the next year its independence was declared. Its Superintendent, Latrobe, was
raised to the dignity of Governor, and the new colony received its Constitution, conferring
on it all the legislative and other powers which had previously been possessed only by New
South Wales.

#9. Abolition of Transportation.#--It was during this period that the English Government resolved
on sending no more convicts to Australia. A committee of the Imperial Parliament held an inquiry
into the effects of transportation, and reported that it would be unwise to continue the system.
From 1842, therefore, there was practically a cessation of transportation, although the majority
of the squatters were averse to the change. They found that the convicts, when assigned to
them, made good shepherds and stockmen, and that at cheap rates. They subsequently petitioned
for a revival of transportation; but, after some hesitation, the British Government resolved
to adhere to their resolution to send no more convicts to Sydney. Van Diemen's Land was still
unfortunate; it was to receive, indeed, the full stream of convicts, but from 1842 Australia
itself ceased to be the receptacle for the criminals of Great Britain.

CHAPTER XI.

SOUTH AUSTRALIA, 1841-1850.

#1. Governor Grey.#--The colonists of South Australia had, in 1841, received a sharp but salutary
lesson, and we have seen that they profited by it. They had discovered that the land was their
only source of wealth, and many, who had sufficient means to purchase farms or stations, went
out into the country, determined to endure a year or two of hardship in hopes of prosperity
to come. Nor had they very long to wait; in 1844 they were able to export corn to the extent
of £40,000, and in that year the colony possessed 355,000 sheep and 22,000 cattle.

The new Governor, Captain George Grey, took every care to assist the colonists in returning
to more prudent courses. Many changes were needed; for in 1840, while the colony had a revenue
of only £30,000, it had spent at the rate of £171,000 per annum. Such imprudence could lead
to nothing but ruin, and the first task of the Governor was to reduce all expenses as far as
possible. In the first year the expenditure was cut down to £90,000; in the next, to £68,000;
and in 1843, to £34,000.

Instead of employing the poorer labourers on costly and unnecessary public works, he persuaded
them to take employment in the country with the farmers and squatters, who were rapidly opening
up the interior parts of the colony. He settled many on small farms or stations of their own,
but in this he was greatly impeded by the high price of land; for Wakefield's friends in England
were not yet convinced that their favourite scheme was defective--they attributed every mishap
to the incompetence of Governors Hindmarsh and Gawler. "To lower the price," said they, "will
be to ruin the colony;" and lest such a thing should happen, they raised the price of all lands,
whether good or bad, to one pound per acre. But many of those who had bought land in the first
days of the settlement had been so anxious to part with it during the crisis that they had
sold it for much less than it cost them; and thus a great number of the poorer people became
possessed of land at very moderate prices. In 1839 there were but 440 acres under cultivation;
three years afterwards there were 23,000 acres bearing wheat, and 5,000 acres of other crops.
So rich and fertile was the soil that, in 1845, the colonists not only raised enough of corn
to supply their own wants, but were able to export about 200,000 bushels at cheap rates to
the neighbouring colonies, and even then were left with 150,000 bushels, which they could neither
sell nor use. So rapid a development of resources and so sudden an accession of prosperity
have probably never occurred in the history of any other country.

#2. Mineral Wealth.#--Such was the success attendant upon careful industry, exercised with
prudence, and under favourable circumstances; but the colony was to owe yet more to accidental
good fortune. During the year 1841, a carrier, while driving his team of bullocks over the
Mount Lofty Range, had been obliged, by the steepness of the road, to fasten a log to the back
of his waggon in order to steady the load and prevent its descending too quickly. As the log
dragged roughly behind on the road, it tore great furrows in the soil, and in one of these
the carrier noticed a stone which glanced and glittered like a metal. On looking more closely,
he saw that there were large quantities of the same substance lying near the surface of the
earth in all directions. Having taken some specimens with him, he made inquiries in Adelaide,
and learned that the substance he had discovered was galena, a mineral in which sulphur is
combined with lead and small quantities of silver. The land on which this valuable ore had
been found was soon purchased, and mines opened upon it. At first there was a large profit
obtained from the enterprise; and though, in after years, the mines became exhausted, yet they
served to call the attention of the colonists to the possibility of discovering more permanent
and lucrative sources of mineral wealth.

#3. Copper.#--At the Kapunda Station, about forty miles north-west of Adelaide, there lived
a squatter named Captain Bagot. One day, during the year 1842, he sent his overseer--Mr. Dutton--to
search for a number of sheep which had strayed into the bush. After spending some time in fruitless
efforts, Mr. Dutton ascended a small hill in order to have a more extensive view of the country,
but still he saw nothing of the lost sheep. On turning to descend, his attention was attracted
by a bright green rock jutting from the earth. It seemed to him peculiar, so he broke a small
piece off and carried it down to Captain Bagot's house, where he and the captain examined the
specimen, and came to the conclusion that it consisted of the mineral malachite, containing
copper in combination with water and carbonic dioxide. They let no one know of the discovery,
but proceeded to apply for the land in the usual manner, without breathing a word as to their
purpose. The section of eighty acres was advertised for a month, and then put up to auction;
but as no one was anxious for this barren piece of ground, they had no competitors, and the
land fell to them for the price of eighty pounds. As soon as they became possessed of it, they
threw off all appearance of mystery, and commenced operations. During the first year the mines
yielded £4,000; during the next, £10,000; and for several years they continued to enrich the
two proprietors, until each had realised a handsome fortune, when the land was bought by an
English company.

#4. The Burra Mines.#--The discovery of copper at Kapunda caused much excitement in the colony.
Every one who possessed land examined it carefully for the trace of any minerals it might contain;
and soon it was rumoured that, at a place about one hundred miles north of Adelaide, a shepherd
had found exceedingly rich specimens of copper ore. The land on which these were discovered
had not yet been sold by the Government, and in great haste a company was formed to purchase
it. This company consisted of the merchants, professional men, and officials of Adelaide; but
a rival company was immediately started, consisting of shopkeepers and tradesmen, together
with the farmers of the country districts. The former always maintained a haughty air, and
soon came to be known throughout the colony as the "nobs"; while they, in their turn, fixed
on their rivals the nickname of the "snobs". For a week or two the jealousies of the companies
ran high, but they were soon forced to make a temporary union; for, according to the land laws
of the colony, if any one wished to buy a piece of land, he had to apply for it and have it
advertised for a month; it was then put up for auction, and he who offered the highest price
became the purchaser. But a month was a long time to wait, and it was rumoured that a number
of speculators were on their way from Sydney to offer a large sum for the land, as soon as
it should be put up to auction. It was, therefore, necessary to take immediate action. There
was another regulation in the land laws, according to which, if a person applied for 20,000
acres, and paid down £20,000 in cash, he became at once the proprietor of the land. The "nobs"
determined to avail themselves of this arrangement; but when they put their money together,
they found they had not enough to pay so large a sum. They therefore asked the "snobs" to join
them, on the understanding that, after the land had been purchased, the two companies would
make a fair division. By uniting their funds they raised the required amount, and proceeded
with great exultation to lodge the money. But part of it was in the form of bills on the Adelaide
banks; and as the Governor refused to accept anything but cash, the companies were almost in
despair, until a few active members hunted up their friends in Adelaide, and succeeded in borrowing
the number of sovereigns required to make up the deficiency. The money was paid into the Treasury,
the two companies were the possessors of the land, and the Sydney speculators arrived a few
days too late.

Now came the division of the 20,000 acres. A line was drawn across the middle; a coin was tossed
up to decide which of the two should have the first choice, and fortune favoured the "snobs,"
who selected the northern half, called by the natives Burra Burra. To the southern part the
"nobs" gave the name of "Princess Royal". The companies soon began operations; but though the
two districts appeared on the surface to be of almost equal promise, yet, on being laid open,
the Princess Royal was soon found to be in reality poor, while the Burra Burra mines provided
fortunes for each of the fortunate "snobs". During the three years after their discovery they
yielded copper to the value of £700,000. Miners were brought from England, and a town of about
5,000 inhabitants rapidly sprang into existence. The houses of the Cornish miners were of a
peculiar kind. A creek runs through the district, with high precipitous banks of solid rock;
into the face of these cliffs the miners cut large chambers to serve for dwellings; holes bored
through the rock, and emerging upon the surface of the ground above, formed the chimneys, which
were capped by small beer barrels instead of chimney-pots. The fronts of the houses were of
weatherboard, in which doors were left; and for two miles along each side of the stream these
primitive dwellings looked out upon the almost dry bed of the creek, which formed the main
street of the village. Here the miners dwelt for years, until the waters rose one night into
a foaming flood, which destroyed the houses and swept away several of their inhabitants.

In 1845 Burra Burra was a lonely moor; in 1850 it was bustling with men, and noisy with the
sounds of engines, pumps and forges. Acres of land were covered with the company's warehouses
and offices, and the handsome residences of its officers; behind these there rose great mounds
of blue, green, and dark-red ores of copper, worth enormous sums of money. Along the roads
eight hundred teams, each consisting of eight bullocks, passed constantly to and fro, whilst
scores of ships were employed in conveying the ore to England. From this great activity the
whole community could not but derive the utmost benefit, and for a time South Australia had
every prospect of taking the foremost place among the colonies.

#5. Governor Robe.#--In 1841 Governor Grey had been of the greatest service to the colony in
changing the state of its prospects, but he was not permitted to see more than the commencement
of its great prosperity; for, in 1845, he was sent to govern New Zealand, where troubles had
arisen similar to those which he had helped to cure in South Australia. His place was filled
by Colonel Robe, a military gentleman, of what is called the old school, honourable and upright,
but inclined to think that everything ought always to be as it has been. He disliked all innovation,
and did what he could to prevent it, much to the discontent of the young and thriving colony,
which was of necessity the scene of constant and rapid changes. He passed a very troublous
time for three years, and in 1848 was heartily glad to be recalled.

#6. Governor Young.#--The colony was then placed under the care of Sir Henry Young, whose policy
was completely the reverse. He sought by every means in his power to encourage the ceaseless
activity of the people. His failing was, perhaps, an injudicious zeal for progress. For instance,
in his desire to open up the river Murray to navigation, he wasted large sums of money in schemes
that proved altogether useless. He made an effort to remove the bar at the mouth of the river,
but fresh deposits of sand were constantly being brought down by the current, and lashed up
into a new bar by the waves that rolled ceaselessly in from the Southern Ocean. He spent about
£20,000 in trying to construct a harbour called Port Elliot, near the entrance to the Murray;
but there are now only a few surf-beaten stones to indicate the scene of his fruitless attempt.
He offered a bonus of £4,000 to the first person who should ascend the Murray in an iron steamer
as far as the river Darling. A gentleman called Cadell made the effort, and succeeded; he obtained
the reward, but it was not enough to pay his heavy expenses, and when he endeavoured afterwards
to carry on a trade, by transporting wool to the sea in flat-bottomed steamers, he found that
the traffic on the river was not sufficiently great to repay his heavy outlay, and in a short
time he was almost ruined. The attempt was premature; and though, in our time, the navigation
of the Murray is successfully carried on, and is, undoubtedly, of immense advantage not only
to South Australia, but also to New South Wales and Victoria, yet, at the time when the first
efforts were made, it led to nothing but loss, if not ruin to the pioneers.

CHAPTER XII.

THE DISCOVERY OF GOLD.

#1. Importance of the Year 1851.#--The year 1851 was in many ways an eventful one to Australia.
In that year the colonies received from the Imperial Parliament the amended Constitutions they
had so long expected. Tasmania, South Australia, Port Phillip, and Western Australia were now
no longer under the absolute control of Governors sent out by the colonial authorities in England;
they could henceforth boast the dignity of being self-governed communities, for, in 1851, they
were invested with political powers which had previously been possessed by New South Wales
alone. They now had the privilege of electing two-thirds of the members of a Legislative Council
which not only had the power of making laws each for its own colony, but also of framing any
new constitution for itself according to its own taste and requirements. Each colony kept its
Legislative Council for only a year or two until it could discuss and establish a regular system
of parliamentary government with two Houses and a Cabinet of responsible Ministers. Again,
it was on the 1st of July in the same year that Port Phillip gained its independence; from
that date onward its prosperous career must be related under its new title--Victoria.

But the event which made the year 1851 especially memorable in the annals of Australia was
the discovery, near Bathurst, of the first of those rich goldfields which, for so long a time,
changed the prospects of the colonies. For several years after the date of this occurrence
the history of Australia is little more than the story of the feverish search for gold, with
its hopes, its labour, its turmoil, and its madness; its scenes of exultation and splendid
triumph, and its still more frequent scenes of bitter and gloomy disappointment.

#2. Early Rumours of Gold.#--For many years there had been rumours that the Blue Mountains
were auriferous. It was said that gold had been seen by convicts in the days of Macquarie,
and, indeed, still earlier; but to the stories of prisoners, who claimed rewards for alleged
discoveries, the authorities in Sydney always listened with extreme suspicion, more especially
as no pretended discoverer could ever find more than his first small specimens.

In 1840 a Polish nobleman named Strzelecki, who had been travelling among the ranges round
Mount Kosciusko, stated that, from indications he had observed, he was firmly persuaded of
the existence of gold in these mountains; but the Governor asked him, as a favour, to make
no mention of a theory which might, perhaps, unsettle the colony, and fill the easily excited
convicts with hopes which, he feared, would prove delusive. Strzelecki agreed not to publish
his belief; but there was another man of science who was not so easily to be silenced. The
Rev. W. B. Clarke, a clergyman devoted to geology, exhibited specimens in Sydney, on which
he based an opinion that the Blue Mountains would, eventually, be found to possess goldfields
of great extent and value. Some of these were taken to London by Strzelecki; and in 1844 a
great English scientist, Sir Roderick Murchison, read a paper before the Royal Geographical
Society in which he expressed a theory similar to that of Mr. Clarke. In 1846 he again called
attention to this subject, and showed that, from the great similarity which existed between
the rocks of the Blue Mountains and those of the Urals, there was every probability that the
one would be found as rich as the other was known to be in the precious metals. So far as theory
could go, the matter had been well discussed before the year 1851, but no one had ventured
to spend his time and money in making a practical effort to settle the question.

#3. Edward Hargraves.#--About that, time, however, the rich mines of California attracted a
Bathurst settler, named Edward Hargraves, to seek his fortune on the banks of the Sacramento;
and though, among the great crowds of struggling and jostling diggers, he met with but little
success, yet he learned the methods by which gold is discovered and secured, and laid the foundation
for adventures in Australia which were afterwards to bring him both wealth and renown. Whilst
he toiled with increasing disappointment on one of these famous goldfields, the scenery around
him, and the appearance of the rocks, recalled to his memory a certain secluded valley beyond
the Blue Mountains, which he had visited thirteen years before; the notion floated vaguely
through his mind that, perhaps, in that silent spot, there might lie great treasures, such
as he saw his more fortunate companions from time to time draw forth from the rocks and soil
around him. Day after day the image of that winding creek among the hills near Bathurst recurred
with increasing vividness to stimulate his imagination and awaken his hopes. At length this
feeling impelled him to seek once more the shores of Australia in order to examine the spot
which had so often been present to his day-dreams. He lost no time in sailing, and scarcely
had he arrived in Sydney ere he set out on horseback to cross the Blue Mountains. On the 11th
of February, 1851, he spent the night at a little inn a few miles from the object of his journey,
and shortly after dawn he sallied forth on his ride through the forest, carrying with him a
spade and a trowel and a little tin dish. In the cool air of the morning the scent of the spreading
gum trees braced up his frame as he plunged deeper and deeper among those lonely hollows and
wood-clad hills. In an hour or two he reached the well-remembered spot--the dry course of a
mountain torrent which, in rainy seasons, finds its way into the Summerhill Creek. He lost
no time in placing a little of the grey-coloured soil into his tin dish, and at once carried
it to the nearest pool, where he dipped the whole beneath the water. By moving the dish rapidly,
as he had learned to do in California, he washed away the sand and earth; but the particles
of gold, which are more than seven and a half times heavier than sand, were not so easily to
be carried off. They sank to the corner of the dish, where they lay secure--a few small specks,
themselves of little value, yet telling of hidden treasures that lay scattered in all the soil
around.

A few days were spent in a careful examination of the neighbouring valleys, and when he was
absolutely certain that the hopes he had so warmly indulged would not prove empty, he set out
for Sydney, taking care, however, to breathe no word of what he thought or of what he had proved.
On the 3rd of April he wrote a letter to the Colonial Secretary, in which he stated that, if
the Government were willing to give him £500, he would point out localities in New South Wales
where gold was abundantly to be found. In reply, the Colonial Secretary announced that no preliminary
reward could be given; but that, if he chose first of all to point out the localities, he would
afterwards be recompensed in proportion to the results. He accepted these conditions; and Mr.
Stutchbury, the Colonial Geologist, was sent to accompany him to the Summerhill Creek. On the
8th of May they set to work, and soon obtained several ounces of grain gold; on the 13th, they
discovered a single piece worth £30, and next day Mr. Stutchbury reported to the Government
that he had seen enough to convince him that the district was rich in the precious metal. Five
days afterwards, the little valley of the Summerhill contained four hundred persons, all stooping
over the creek in a row about a mile long, each with a dish in his hand, scarcely ever raising
his head, but busily engaged in washing the sand for gold. Lumps were frequently found of value
varying from £5 to £200. A week later, there were a thousand persons at work on the creek near
the formerly lonely gully.

#4. Rush to the Goldfield.#--The excitement throughout the colony now became intense: workmen
quitted their employment, shepherds deserted their flocks, shopkeepers closed their stores,
and a great tide of fortune-seekers pressed onward, day by day, to the west. Most of these
had sold everything they possessed, in order to make up a little bundle of necessary articles.
Yet there were very many but ill-provided for a lengthened stay; they hurried along the road
with the fallacious idea that gold was simply to be shovelled into bags and carted to Sydney.
But when they came upon the scene, and saw that in the case of most of them it would only be
after weeks and months of severe and constant toil that they could be rich, they grew faint-hearted,
lounged for a week or two on the diggings, and then started for home again; so that, for some
time, there was a counter-current of grumbling and discontented men passing back to Sydney
by the road. These men thought themselves befooled by Hargraves, and it might, perhaps, have
cost him his life had he fallen into their hands. On his trip to Sydney he was careful to disguise
himself, to avoid their threatened revenge. He received from Government, however, his preliminary
reward of £500, and, in after years, New South Wales voted him the sum of £10,000, which was
supplemented by a present of £2,381 from Victoria. Other profits also accrued to Hargraves;
so that he was, in the end, recompensed for his toil and trouble with a handsome competency.

The gloomy reports of returning diggers checked for a time the flow of people to the west;
but in the month of July an aboriginal shepherd on a station near Bathurst burst in upon his
master while seated at dinner, his eyes glistening with excitement. He was only able to stammer
out: "Oh, massa, white man find little fellow, me find big fellow". When his master drove him
in a buggy through the forest, the shepherd pointed to where a hundredweight of gold was sticking
out from a rock. It was so heavy that they had to chop it in two with their axes before they
could lift it into the buggy. It was afterwards sold for £4,000. So splendid a prize, obtained
in so easy a manner, was a temptation too dazzling to be resisted; and the stream of people
along the Bathurst road was now tenfold denser than before.

#5. Government Regulations.#--When the population on the goldfields began to grow numerous,
the Government found it necessary to make arrangements for the preservation of law and order.
A commissioner was appointed, who was to act as a magistrate; he was to be assisted by a small
body of police, and was to take charge of the gold escorts. As the lands on which the gold
was being found were the public property of the colony, it was thought to be but just that
the community, as a whole, should participate, to some small extent, in the wealth raised from
them; and the order was, therefore, issued that diggers should in all cases take out licences
before seeking for gold, and should pay for them at the rate of thirty shillings per month.

New diggings were, from time to time, opened up, and fresh crowds of eager men constantly pressed
towards them, leaving the towns deserted and the neighbouring colonies greatly reduced in population.
For some months the Turon River was the favourite; at one time it had no less than ten thousand
men upon its banks. At Ophir, and Braidwood, and Maroo the most industrious and sagacious miners
were generally rewarded by the discovery of fine pieces of gold, for which the Californian
name of "nuggets" now began to be extensively used.

#6. Gold in Victoria.#--When Latrobe was sworn in to fill the office of Governor of Victoria
on the 16th July, 1851, it appeared probable that he would soon have but a small community
to rule over. So great were the numbers of those who were daily packing up their effects and
setting off for the goldfields of New South Wales that Victoria seemed likely to sink into
a very insignificant place on the list of Australian colonies. In alarm at this prospect, a
number of the leading citizens of Melbourne on the 9th of June united to form what was called
the Gold Discovery Committee, and offered a reward of £200 to the person who should give the
first intimation of a paying goldfield within two hundred miles of Melbourne. Many persons
set out, each in hopes of being the fortunate discoverer; and a report having been circulated
that signs of gold had been seen on the Plenty Ranges, there were soon no less than two hundred
persons scouring those hills, though for a long time without success. The first useful discovery
in Victoria seems to have been made on 1st July, by a Californian digger named Esmond, who,
like Hargraves, had entered on the search with a practical knowledge of the work. His experience
had taught him the general characteristics of a country in which gold is likely to be found,
and he selected Clunes as a favourable spot. He found the quartz rock of the district richly
sprinkled with gold; and his discovery having been made known, several hundred people were
quickly on the scene. Almost on the same day, gold was discovered by a party of six men, at
Anderson's Creek, only a few miles up the Yarra from Melbourne. It is thus difficult to determine
with certainty whether or not Esmond was in reality the first discoverer; but, at any rate,
he received honours and emoluments as such; and in after years the Victorian Parliament presented
him with £1,000 for his services.

#7. Ballarat.#--On the 10th of August the Geelong newspapers announced that deposits of auriferous
earth had been discovered at Buninyong, and very soon the sunny slopes of that peaceful and
pastoral district were swarming with prospecting parties; the quietly browsing sheep were startled
from their favourite solitudes by crowds of men, who hastened with pick and spade to break
up the soil in every direction, each eager to out-strip the other in the race for wealth. This
region, however, did not realise the expectations that had been formed of it, and many of the
diggers began to move northwards, in the direction of Clunes. But at Clunes, also, there had
been disappointment, for the gold was mostly embedded in quartz rock, and these early miners
were not prepared to extract it; parties from Clunes were therefore moving southwards to Buninyong,
and the two currents met on the slopes of the Yarrowee, a streamlet whose banks were afterwards
famous as the Ballarat diggings. The first comers began to work at a bend in the creek, which
they called Golden Point. Here, for a time, each man could easily earn from £20 to £40 a day,
and crowds of people hurried to the scene. Every one selected a piece of ground, which he called
his claim, and set to work to dig a hole in it; but when the bottom of the sandy layer was
reached, and there seemed to be nothing but pipe-clay below, the claim was supposed to be worked
out, and was straightway abandoned. However, a miner named Cavanagh determined to try an experiment,
and, having entered one of these deserted claims, he dug through the layer of pipe-clay, when
he had the good fortune to come suddenly upon several large deposits of grain gold. He had
reached what had been in long past ages the bed of the creek, where, in every little hollow,
for century after century, the flowing waters had gently deposited the gold which they had
washed out of the rocks in the mountains. In many cases these "pockets," as they were called,
were found to contain gold to the value of thousands of pounds, so that very soon all the claims
were carried down a few feet further, and with such success that, before a month had passed,
Ballarat took rank as the richest goldfield in the world. In October there were ten thousand
men at work on the Yarrowee; acre after acre was covered with circular heaps of red and yellow
sand, each with its shaft in the middle, in which men were toiling beneath the ground to excavate
the soil and pass it to their companions above, who quickly hurried with it to the banks of
the creek, where twelve hundred "cradles," rocked by brawny arms, were washing the sand from
the gold.

#8. Mount Alexander.#--In the month of September a party, who had gone about forty miles north-east
of Clunes to Mount Alexander, discovered near the present site of Castlemaine a valuable seam
of gold-bearing earth. The fame of this place soon spread through all the colony; many left
Ballarat to seek it, and crowds of people hastened from Melbourne and Geelong to share in the
glittering prizes. In October, eight thousand men had gathered in the district; in November,
there were not less than twenty-five thousand diggers at work, and three tons of gold were
waiting in the tent of the commissioner to be carried to Melbourne. The road to Mount Alexander
was crowded with men of all ranks and conditions, pressing eagerly onward to be in time.

#9. Sandhurst.#--A few weeks later the glories both of Ballarat and of Mount Alexander were
dimmed for a time by the discovery of gold on the Bendigo Creek, which seemed at first to be
the richest of all the goldfields. In the course of a few months nearly forty thousand persons
were scattered along the banks of the streamlet where the handsome streets of Bendigo now stand.

In the month of May, 1852, there must have been close upon seventy thousand men in the country
between Buninyong and Bendigo, all engaged in the same occupation. Melbourne and Geelong were
silent and deserted; for all classes were alike infected with the same excitement--lawyers,
doctors, clerks, merchants, labourers, mechanics, all were to be found struggling through the
miry ruts that served for a highway to Bendigo. The sailors left the ships in the bay with
scarcely a man to take care of them; even the very policemen deserted, and the warders in the
gaols resigned in a body. The price of labour now became excessive, for no man was willing
to stay away from the diggings unless tempted by the offer of four or five times the ordinary wage.

#10. Immigration.#--Meanwhile the news of these great discoveries had travelled to Europe,
so that, after the middle of 1852, ships began to arrive freighted with thousands of men of
all nations, who no sooner landed in Melbourne than they started for the diggings. During this
year nearly one hundred thousand persons were thus brought into the country, and the population
was doubled at a bound. Next year ninety-two thousand fresh arrivals landed, and Victoria thus
became the most populous of the colonies. During the two following years it received a further
accession of a hundred and fifty thousand; so that, in 1856, it contained four hundred thousand
inhabitants, or about five times the number it possessed in 1850. The staple industry was,
of course, the mining for gold, of which, in 1852, one hundred and seventy-four tons were raised,
valued at £14,000,000. During the next ten years £100,000,000 worth of gold was exported from
Victoria.

Some of the nuggets that were found are of historic note. The "Sarah Sands," discovered in
1853, was worth about £6,500. In 1857 the "Blanche Barkly," worth £7,000, was discovered; and
the following year produced the "Welcome Nugget," which was sold for £10,500, and was the greatest
on record, until, in 1869, the "Welcome Stranger" was dug out, which proved to be slightly larger.

CHAPTER XIII.

VICTORIA, 1851-1855.

#1. Effects of Gold Excitement.#--For the first few months after the discovery of gold in Victoria,
many shrewd persons believed that the colony would be ruined by its seeming good fortune. None
of the ordinary industries could be carried on whilst workmen were so scarce and wages so high.
But, happily, these expectations proved fallacious; for, in 1852, when the great stream of
people from Europe began to flow into the colony, every profession and every trade sprang into
new and vigorous life. The vast crowds on the goldfields required to be fed, so the farmers
found ample market for their corn, and the squatters for their beef and mutton. The miners
required to be clothed, and the tailor and shoemaker must be had, whatever might be the prices
they charged. Mechanics and artisans of every class found their labours in demand, and handsomely
paid for. The merchants, also, found trade both brisk and lucrative; while the imports in 1850
were worth only three-quarters of a million, those of three years later were worth about twenty
times that amount. After this enormous increase in population and business, it was found that
there was quite as great an opportunity of gaining riches by remaining quietly engaged in one's
own occupation as by joining the restless throng upon the goldfields. The public revenue of
the colony was in 1852 six times, and in 1853 twelve times as great as it had been before the
discovery of gold; so that, both as individuals and as a nation, the people of Victoria had
reason to be satisfied with the change.

#2. Convicts Prevention Act.#--There existed, however, one drawback; for the attractions of
the goldfields had drawn from the neighbouring colonies, and more especially from Tasmania,
great numbers of that class of convicts who, having served a part of their time, had been liberated
on condition of good behaviour. They crossed over by hundreds, and soon gave rise to a serious
difficulty; for, in the confused and unsettled state of the colony, they found only too great
an opportunity for the display of their criminal propensities and perverted talents. Being
by no means charmed with the toilsome life of the gold-miner, many of them became bushrangers.
There were, in 1852, several bands of these lawless ruffians sweeping the country and robbing
in all directions. As the gold was being conveyed from the diggings, escorted by bands of armed
troopers, the bushrangers lurked upon the road, treacherously shot the troopers, and rifled
the chests. On one occasion, their daring rose to such a height that a band of them boarded
the ship Nelson whilst it lay at anchor in Hobson's Bay, overpowered the crew, and removed
gold to the value of £24,000--remarking, as they handed the boxes over the side of the vessel,
that this was the best goldfield they had ever seen.

To prevent any further introduction of these undesirable immigrants, the Legislature, in 1852,
passed what was called the "Convicts Prevention Act," declaring that no person who had been
convicted, and had not received an absolutely free pardon, should be allowed to enter the colony;
and that all persons who came from Tasmania should be required to prove that they were free,
before being allowed to land. Any ship captain who brought a convict into the colony was to
be fined £100 for the offence.

#3. Aspect of Goldfields.#--Meanwhile the goldfields were growing apace. The discovery of the
Eureka, Gravel Pits, and Canadian Leads made Ballarat once more the favourite; and in 1853
there were about forty thousand diggers at work on the Yarrowee. Hotels began to be built,
theatres were erected, and here and there a little church rose among the long line of tents
which occupied the slopes above the creek.

#4. Scene on the Goldfields.#--Below, on the flats, the scene was a busy one. Thousands upon
thousands of holes covered the earth, where men emerged and disappeared like ants, each bearing
a bag of sand which he either threw on a wheelbarrow or slung over his shoulder, and then carried
forward, running nimbly along the thin paths among a multitude of holes, till he reached the
little creek where he delivered the sand to one of the men who stood shoulder to shoulder,
in long rows, for miles on either bank, all washing the sand and clay into the shallow current,
whose waters were turned to a tint of dirty yellow. Such is the scene which presents itself
by day; but at sunset a gun is fired from the commissioner's tent and all cease work: then,
against the evening sky, ten thousand fires send up their wreaths of thin blue smoke, and the
diggers prepare their evening meals. Everything is hushed for a time, except that a dull murmur
rises from the little crowds chatting over their pannikins of tea. But, as the darkness draws
closer around, the noises begin to assume a merrier tone, and, mingling pleasantly in the evening
air, there rise the loud notes of a sailor's song, the merry jingle of a French political chant,
or the rich strains of a German chorus.

In some tents the miners sit round boxes or stools, while, by the light of flaming oil-cans,
they gamble for match boxes filled with gold-dust; in others they gather to drink the liquors
illicitly sold by the "sly grog shops". Many of the diggers betake themselves to the brilliantly-lighted
theatres, and make the fragile walls tremble with their rough and hearty roars of applause:
everywhere are heard the sounds of laughter and good humour. Then, at midnight, all to bed,
except those foolish revellers who have stayed too late at the "grog shop".

At dawn, again, they are all astir; for the day's supply of water must be drawn from the stream
ere its limpid current begins to assume the appearance of a clay-stained gutter. Making the
allowances proper to the occasion, the community is both orderly and law-abiding, and the digger,
in the midst of all his toil, enjoys a very agreeable existence.

#5. The Licence Fee.#--He had but one grievance to trouble his life, and that was the monthly
payment of the licence fee. This tax had been imposed under the erroneous impression that every
one who went upon the goldfields must of necessity earn a fortune. For a long time this mistake
prevailed, because only the most successful diggers were much heard of. But there was an indistinguishable
throng of those who earned much less than a labourer's wage.

The average monthly earnings throughout the colony were not more than eight pounds for each
man; and of this sum he had to pay thirty shillings every month for the mere permission to
dig. To those who were fortunate this seemed but a trifle; but for those who earned little
or nothing there was no resource but to evade payment, and many were the tricks adopted in
order to "dodge the commissioners". As there were more than one-fifth of the total number of
diggers who systematically paid no fees, it was customary for the police to stop any man they
met and demand to see his licence; if he had none, he was at once marched off to the place
that served for a gaol, and there chained to a tree.

The police were in the habit of devoting two days a week to what was called "digger hunting";
and as they often experienced much trouble and vexation in doing what was unfortunately their
duty, they were sometimes rough and summary in their proceedings. Hence arose a feeling of
hostility among the diggers, not only to the police, but to all the officials on the goldfields.
The first serious ebullition of the prevailing discontent took place on the Ovens, where a
commissioner who had been unnecessarily rough to unlicensed diggers was assaulted and severely
injured. But as violence was deprecated by the great body of miners, they held large meetings,
in order to agitate in a more constitutional manner for the abolition of the fee. At first
they sent a petition to Governor Latrobe, who declined to make any change. It was then hinted
that, possibly, they might be driven to use force; and the Governor replied that, if they did,
he was determined to do his duty. But in August, 1853, when the agitation was increasing, Latrobe
hurriedly reduced the fee to twenty shillings per month. This appeased the miners for a time;
but the precipitancy with which the Governor had changed his intention showed too plainly the
weakness of the Government, for there was at that time scarcely a soldier in Victoria to repress
an insurrection, if one should break out. Among the confused crowds on the goldfields there
were numbers of troublesome spirits, many of them foreigners, who were only too happy to foment
dissension. Thousands of miners had been disappointed in their hopes of wealth, and, being
in a discontented frame of mind, they blamed the Governor for their misfortunes.

In spite of the concession that had been made to them, a spirit of dissatisfaction prevailed
throughout all the goldfields; mutterings were heard as of a coming storm, and Latrobe, in
alarm, sent to all the neighbouring colonies to ask for troops. As the Ninety-ninth Regiment
was lying idle in Hobart Town, it was at once despatched to Melbourne.

#6. Governor Hotham.#--While matters were in this state, Governor Latrobe retired from office;
and in June, 1854, Sir Charles Hotham arrived to fill the position. On his first arrival, he
showed that his sympathies were, to a great extent, with the diggers. But he could scarcely
be expected to make any important change until he had been a few months in the colony, and
had learnt exactly the state of affairs, and, meanwhile, the discontent on the goldfields was
daily increasing. The months of September and October, in 1854, were exceedingly dry; the creeks
were greatly shrunk in volume, and in many places the diggers could find no water either for
drinking or for gold-washing; and their irritation was not at all soothed by the manners of
the commissioners and police. Besides this, the Government had thought it necessary to form
a camp on the goldfields, so that a large body of soldiers dwelt constantly in the midst of
the miners. The soldiers and officers, of course, supported the commissioners, and, like them,
soon came to be regarded with the greatest disfavour.

The goldfield population was in this irritable state when a trifling incident kindled revolt.

#7. Riot at Ballarat.#--A digger named Scobie, late one evening, knocked at the door of Bentley's
Hotel, at Ballarat. Finding the place closed for the night, he tried to force an entrance,
and continued his clamour so long that Bentley became angry, and sallied forth to chastise
him. A crowd gathered to see the fight, and, in the darkness, Scobie's head was split open
with a spade. Whose hand it was that aimed the blow no one could tell; but the diggers universally
believed that Bentley was himself the murderer. He was therefore arrested and tried, but acquitted
by Mr. Dewes, the magistrate, who was said by the diggers to be secretly his partner in business.
A great crowd assembled round the hotel, and a digger, named Kennedy, addressed the multitude,
in vigorous Scottish accents, pointing out the spot where their companion's blood had been
shed, and asserting that his spirit hovered above and called for revenge. The authorities sent
a few police to protect the place, but they were only a handful of men in the midst of a great
and seething crowd of over eight thousand powerful diggers. For an hour or two the mob, though
indulging in occasional banter, remained harmless. But a mischievous boy having thrown a stone,
and broken the lamp in front of the hotel, the police made a movement as if they were about
to seize the offender. This roused the diggers to anger, and in less than a minute every pane
of glass was broken; the police were roughly jostled and cut by showers of stones; and the
doors were broken open. The crowd burst tumultuously into the hotel, and the rooms were soon
swarming with men drinking the liquors and searching for Bentley, who, however, had already
escaped on a swift horse to the camp. As the noise and disorder increased, a man placed a handful
of paper and rags against the wooden walls of the bowling alley, deliberately struck a match,
and set fire to the place. The diggers now deserted the hotel and retired to a safe distance,
in order to watch the conflagration. Meanwhile a company of soldiers had set out from the camp
for the scene of the riot, and on their approach the crowd quietly dispersed; but by this time
the hotel was reduced to a heap of smouldering ruins.

#8. Conviction of Rioters.#--For this outrage three men were apprehended and taken to Melbourne,
where they were tried and sentenced to imprisonment. But Bentley was also re-arrested and tried,
and as his friend Dewes could on this occasion be of no assistance to him, he was sentenced
to three years of hard labour on the roads. Dewes was dismissed from the magistracy, and Sir
Charles Hotham did everything in his power to conciliate the diggers. They were not to be thus
satisfied, however, and held a stormy meeting at Ballarat, in which they appointed a deputation,
consisting of Kennedy, Humffray, and Black, to demand from the Governor the release of the
three men condemned for burning Bentley's Hotel. Hotham received them kindly, but declined
to accept their message, because, he said, the word "demand" was not a suitable term to use
in addressing the representative of Her Majesty. As the diggers were haughty, and refused to
alter the phrase, the Governor intimated that, under these circumstances, no reply could be
given. The delegates having returned to Ballarat, a great meeting was held, and Kennedy, Humffray,
Black, Lalor, and Vern made inflammatory speeches, in which they persuaded the diggers to pass
a resolution, declaring they would all burn their licences and pay no more fees.

#9. Insurrection at Ballarat.#--Skirmishes between the soldiers and diggers now became frequent;
and, on the 30th of November, when the last "digger hunt" took place, the police and soldiers
were roughly beaten off. The diggers, among their tents, set up a flagstaff, and hoisted a
banner of blue, with four silver stars in the corner. Then the leaders knelt beneath it, and,
having sworn to defend one another to the death, proceeded to enrol the miners and form them
into squads ready for drilling. Meantime the military camp was being rapidly fortified with
trusses of hay, bags of corn, and loads of firewood. The soldiers were in hourly expectation
of an attack, and for four successive nights they slept fully accoutred, and with their loaded
muskets beside them. All night long lights were seen to move busily backwards and forwards
among the diggers' tents, and the solid tread of great bodies of men could be heard amid the
darkness. Lalor was marshalling his forces on the slopes of Ballarat, and drilling them to
use such arms as they possessed--whether rifles, or pistols, or merely spikes fastened at the
ends of poles.

#10. The Eureka Stockade.#--Sir Charles Hotham now sent up the remaining eight hundred soldiers
of the Ninety-ninth Regiment, under Sir Robert Nickle, and to these he added all the marines
from the men-of-war and nearly all the police of the colony. They were several days on the
march, and only arrived when the disturbance was over. The diggers had formed an entrenchment,
called the Eureka Stockade, and had enclosed about an acre of ground with a high slab fence.
In the midst of this stronghold they proclaimed the "Republic of Victoria"; and here they were
able to carry on their drilling unmolested, under the command of the two leaders--Vern, a German,
and Peter Lalor, the son of an Irish gentleman. They sent out parties in every direction to
gather all the arms and ammunition they could obtain, and made extensive preparations for an
assault; but, imagining that the soldiers would never dream of attacking them until the arrival
of Sir Robert Nickle, they kept guard but carelessly. Captain Thomas--who commanded the troops
in the camp--determined to finish the affair by a sudden attack; and, on Saturday night, whilst
the diggers were amusing themselves in fancied security, he was carefully making his preparations.
On Sunday morning, just after daybreak, when the stockade contained only two hundred men, Captain
Thomas led his troops quietly forth, and succeeded in approaching within three hundred yards
of the stockade without being observed. The alarm was then given within; the insurgents rushed
to their posts, and poured a heavy volley upon the advancing soldiers, of whom about twelve
fell. The attacking party wavered a moment, but again became steady, and fired with so calm
and correct an aim, that, whenever a digger showed himself, even for a moment, he was shot.
Peter Lalor rose on a sand heap within the stockade to direct his men, but immediately fell,
pierced in the shoulder by a musket ball. After the firing had lasted for twenty minutes there
was a lull; and the insurgents could hear the order "Charge!" ring out clearly. Then there
was an ominous rushing sound--the soldiers were for a moment seen above the palisades, and
immediately the conflict became hand-to-hand. The diggers took refuge in the empty claims,
where some were bayoneted and others captured, whilst the victors set fire to the tents, and
soon afterwards retired with 125 prisoners. A number of half-burnt palisades, which had fallen
on Lalor, concealed him from view; and, after the departure of the soldiers, he crawled forth,
and escaped to the ranges, where a doctor was found, who amputated his arm. The Government
subsequently offered a reward of £500 for his capture; but his friends proved true, and preserved
him till the trouble was all past.

The number of those who had been wounded was never exactly known, but it was found that twenty-six
of the insurgents had died during the fight, or shortly afterwards; and in the evening the
soldiers returned and buried such of the dead bodies as were still lying within the stockade.
On the following day, four soldiers who had been killed in the engagement were buried with
military honours. Many of the wounded died during the course of the following month, and in
particular the colony had to lament the loss of Captain Wise, of the Fortieth Regiment, who
had received his death wound in the conflict.

#11. Trial of the Rioters.#--When the news of the struggle and its issue was brought to Melbourne,
the sympathies of the people were powerfully roused in favour of the diggers. A meeting, attended
by about five thousand persons, was held near Prince's Bridge, and a motion, proposed by Mr.
David Blair, in favour of the diggers, was carried almost unanimously. Similar meetings were
held at Geelong and Sandhurst, so that there could be no doubt as to the general feeling against
the Government; and when, at the beginning of 1855, thirteen of the prisoners were brought
up for trial in Melbourne, and each in his turn was acquitted, crowds of people, both within
and without the courts, greeted them, one after another, with hearty cheers as they stepped
out into the open air, once more free men.

#12. Improvements on the Goldfields.#--The commission appointed by Sir Charles Hotham commenced
its labours shortly after the conclusion of the riot, and in its report the fact was clearly
demonstrated that the miners had suffered certain grievances. Acting upon the advice of this
commission, the Legislative Council abolished the monthly fee, and authorised the issue of
"Miners' Rights," giving to the holders, on payment of one pound each per annum, permission
to dig for gold in any part of the colony. New members were to be elected to the Council, in
order to watch over the interests of the miners, two to represent Sandhurst, two for Ballarat,
two for Castlemaine, and one each for the Ovens and the Avoca Diggings. Any man who held a
"Miner's Right" was thereby qualified to vote in the elections for the Council.

These were very just and desirable reforms, and the Government added to the general satisfaction
by appointing the most prominent of the diggers to be justices of the peace on the goldfields.
Thus the colony very rapidly returned to its former state of peaceful progress, and the goldfields
were soon distinguished for their orderly and industrious appearance.

CHAPTER XIV.

NEW SOUTH WALES, 1851-1860.

#1. Effects of Gold Discovery.#--For some years after 1851 the colony of New South Wales passed
through a severe ordeal. The separation of Port Phillip had reduced her population by one-fourth
and decreased her wealth by fully a third; the discoveries of gold at Ballarat and Bendigo
had deprived her of many of her most desirable colonists. But the resources of the colony were
too vast to allow of more than a merely temporary check, and, after a year or two, her progress
was steady and marked. The gloomy anticipations with which the gold discoveries had been regarded
by the squatters and employers of labour were by no means realised; for though men were for
a time scarce, and wages exceedingly high, yet, when the real nature of a gold-digger's life
and the meagreness of the average earnings became apparent, the great majority of the miners
returned to their ordinary employments and the colony resumed its former career of steady progress,
though with this difference, that the population was greater, and business consequently brisker
than it had ever been before.

Fortune, however, had given to Victoria so great an impetus in 1851, that the firm prosperity
of New South Wales was completely lost sight of in the brilliant success of its younger neighbour.
The yield of gold in New South Wales was never great as compared with that of Victoria; for,
with the exception of 1852, no year produced more than two million pounds worth. But the older
colony learnt more and more to utilise its immense area in the growth of wool, an industry
which yielded greater and more permanent wealth than has ever been gained from gold mining.

#2. Governor Denison.#--Governor Fitzroy, who had been appointed in 1847, remained eight years
in office, and thus was present during the events which made so great a change in the prospects
of the colonies. In 1855 he returned to England, and his place was taken by Sir William Denison,
who had previously been Governor of Tasmania. In 1854 great excitement had been caused in Sydney
by the outbreak of the Crimean War, and the people, in their fear lest they might suddenly
receive an unwelcome visit from Russian cruisers, hastened to complete a system of fortifications
for the harbour. The new Governor, who had in youth been trained as an officer of the Royal
Engineers in England, took a warm interest in the operations. He built a small fortress on
an islet in the middle of the harbour, and placed batteries of guns at suitable spots along
the shores. The advance of the science of warfare in recent times has left these little fortifications
but sorry defences against modern ironclads; but they have since been replaced by some of those
improvements in defence which have accompanied the invention of new methods of attack.

#3. Constitutional Changes.#--The Constitutions which had been framed for the colonies by the
Imperial Parliament in 1850 were not expected to be more than temporary. The British Government
had wisely determined to allow each of the colonies to frame for itself the Constitution which
it deemed most suitable to its requirements, and had instructed the Legislative Councils which
were elected in 1851 to report as to the wishes of their respective colonies. In Sydney the
Council entrusted the framing of the new Constitution to a committee, which decided to adopt
the English system of government by two Houses--the one to represent the people as a whole,
the other to watch over the interests of those who, by their superior wealth, might be supposed
to have more than an ordinary stake in the welfare of the country. It was very quickly arranged
that the popular House should consist of not less than fifty-four members, to be elected by
men who paid a small rental, or possessed property of a certain annual value. But with regard
to the nature of the Upper House, it was much more difficult to come to a decision. Wentworth
proposed that the Queen should establish a colonial peerage to form a small House of Lords,
holding their seats by hereditary right; but this idea raised so great an outcry that he made
haste to abandon it. Several of the committee were in favour of the scheme, afterwards adopted
in Victoria, of making the Upper House elective, while limiting the choice of members to those
who possessed at least £5,000 worth of real property. After much discussion, however, it was
decided to give to the Governor the power of nominating the members of this chamber, which
was to consist of not less than twenty-one persons.

The Legislative Council adopted this scheme, and sent it to England for the assent of the Queen;
they also requested that their Constitution might be still further assimilated to that of Great
Britain by the introduction of responsible government, so that the Ministers who controlled
the affairs of the colony should be no longer officials appointed or dismissed by the Governor
and Secretary of State, but should, in future, be chosen by the Parliament to advise the Governor
on all matters of public interest, and should be liable to dismissal from office so soon as
the Parliament lost confidence in their ability or prudence. The British Government at once
gave its assent to this Constitution, which was accordingly inaugurated in 1856; and from that
date the political management of New South Wales has been an imitation of that of the British
Empire. In 1858 two small modifications were introduced: the Lower House was increased in numbers
to sixty-eight members, and the privilege of voting for it was extended to every male person
over twenty-one years of age who had dwelt not less than six months in the colony.

#4. Floods and Droughts.#--From the very commencement of its existence, New South Wales has
been subject to the two extremes of heavy floods and dreary periods of drought. The mountains
are so near to the coast that the rivers have but short courses, and the descent is so steep
that, during rainy seasons, the rush of waters deluges the plains near the sea, causing floods
of fatal suddenness. At the same time, the waters are carried off so rapidly that there are
no supplies of moisture left to serve for those seasons in which but little rain falls. The
districts along the banks of the Hunter, Hawkesbury, and Shoalhaven Rivers have been especially
liable to destructive inundations; and, from time to time, the people of Sydney have been obliged
to send up lifeboats for the purpose of releasing the unfortunate settlers from the roofs and
chimneys of their houses, where they have been forced to seek refuge from the rising waters.
The Murrumbidgee also used occasionally to spread out into a great sea, carrying off houses
and crops, cattle, and, oftentimes, the people themselves. In 1852 a flood of this description
completely destroyed the town of Gundagai, and no less than eighty persons perished, either
from drowning or from being exposed to the storm as they clung to the branches of trees.

#5. The Dunbar.#--A great gloom was cast over the colony in 1857 by the loss of a fine ship
within seven miles of the centre of Sydney. The Dunbar sailed from Plymouth in that year with
about a hundred and twenty people on board, many of them well-known colonists who had visited
England, and were now on their way homewards. As the vessel approached the coast, a heavy gale
came down from the north-east, and, ere they could reach the entrance to Port Jackson, night
had closed around them. In the deep and stormy gloom they beat to and fro for some time, but
at length the captain thought it safer to make for Sydney Heads than to toss about on so wild
a sea. He brought the vessel close in to the shore in order to search for the entrance, and
when against the stormy sky he perceived a break in the black cliff's he steered for the opening.
This, however, was not the entrance, but only a hollow in the cliffs, called by the Sydney
people the "Gap". The vessel was standing straight in for the rocks, when a mass of boiling
surf was observed in the place where they thought the opening was, and ere she could be put
about she crashed violently upon the foot of a cliff that frowned ninety feet above; there
was a shriek, and then the surf rolled back the fragments and the drowning men. At daybreak
the word was given that a ship had been wrecked at the Gap, and during the day thousands of
people poured forth from Sydney to view the scene of the disaster. On the following morning
it was discovered that there was a solitary survivor, who, having been washed into a hollow
in the face of the rock, lay concealed in his place of refuge throughout that dreadful night
and all the succeeding day. A young man was found who volunteered to let himself down by a
rope and rescue the half-dead seaman.

To prevent the repetition of so sad an occurrence, lighthouses were erected for the guidance
of ship captains entering the harbour.

In 1852 the people of Sydney had the satisfaction of inaugurating the first Australian University--a
structure whose noble front, magnificent halls, and splendid appointments for the furtherance
of science will always do credit to the liberality and high aspirations of the colony. In 1857
the "Australian Museum" was opened, and formed the nucleus of the present excellent collection
of specimens. During this period several newspapers sprang into existence, railways began to
stretch out from the metropolis, and lines of telegraph united Sydney with the leading cities
of the other colonies. In August, 1853, the first mail steamer from England, named the Chusan,
arrived in Port Jackson, and helped to make the settlers of Australia feel less exiled, as
they now could have regular news of their friends and of European events little more than two
months old.

CHAPTER XV.

WEST AUSTRALIA, 1829-1890.

#1. King George's Sound.#--In 1825, when Sir Ralph Darling was appointed Governor of New South
Wales, his commission was supposed to extend over all that part of Australia which lies between
the 139th meridian and the eastern coast. Not that the whole of this country, or even the twentieth
part of it, was occupied by settlers--the region was merely claimed as British territory. But
the remainder of Australia, comprising about two-thirds of the continent, had not, as yet,
been annexed by any European nation; and when, in 1826, a rumour prevailed that the French
were about to occupy that region, the Sydney people were alarmed lest so great a territory
should thus be lost for ever to the British Empire; they, therefore, in that year, sent a detachment
of soldiers to take formal possession of the country and to found a settlement at King George's
Sound. From this early effort, however, no practical result ensued; and, during the few years
of its existence, the place continued to be nothing more than a small military station.

#2. Swan River.#--But, in 1827, an English captain, named Stirling, after having sailed along
the western coast, gave a most favourable account of a large river he had seen on his voyage.
He was not the first discoverer of this river, which, as early as 1697, had been visited by
a Dutch navigator, named Vlaming, who was sailing in quest of a man-of-war supposed to have
been wrecked on these shores. Vlaming had seen this stream, and, astonished by the wonderful
sight of thousands of jet black swans on its surface, had given to it the name of Swan River.
But it had remained unthought of till Captain Stirling, by his report, awakened a warm and
hopeful interest in this district.

Shortly afterwards the British Government resolved to found a colony on the banks of this river,
and Captain Fremantle arrived as the pioneer of the intended settlement. When he landed on
the shore, he found that a nearer view of the country was far from realising the expectations
formed by those who had viewed it merely from the open sea. He began to have forebodings, but
it was now too late--the ships, containing eight hundred of the first settlers, were already
close at hand; and, in the course of a week or two, after narrowly escaping shipwreck on the
reefs along the shore, they landed Captain Stirling, the first Governor, with his little band,
on the wilderness of Garden Island. Here, in this temporary abode, the colonists remained for
several months--sheltering themselves in fragile tents, or in brushwood huts, from the rough
blasts and the rains that beat in from the winter storms of the Indian Ocean. Exploring parties
set out from time to time to examine the adjoining mainland; but, however fair it seemed from
a distance, they found it to be merely a sandy region, covered with dense and scrubby thickets.
The only port was at a place called Fremantle, where there was but little shelter from the
storms of the open ocean; and the only place suitable for a town was several miles up the Swan
River, where the waters expand into broad but shallow lagoons. Here the colonists determined
to build their city, to which they gave the name of Perth. But the site was not favourable
to enterprise; an impassable bar stretched across the mouth of the river, which was, therefore,
inaccessible to vessels. The goods of the colonists had to be landed on an exposed beach at
Fremantle, and then carried overland through miles of sand and scrub.

In 1830 about a thousand new immigrants arrived; and towards the end of this year the colonists
succeeded in settling down in their new homes at Perth.

#3. Land Grants.#--Most of these immigrants were attracted to Western Australia by the prospect
of obtaining large estates; they knew how valuable land was in the well-settled countries of
Europe, and, when they heard of square miles in Australia to be had for a few pounds, they
were captivated by the notion of so easily becoming great landed proprietors. But the value
of land depends upon surrounding circumstances, and ten acres in England may be worth more
than a whole wilderness in West Australia. At that time foolish notions were in every quarter
prevalent as to what could be done by means of land. The British Government thought it possible
to make the colony self-supporting by paying for everything with grants which cost it nothing,
but which would be readily accepted by others as payment. Thus the Governor, instead of his
yearly salary, was to receive a hundred thousand acres, and all the officials were to be paid
in the same manner. The land was distributed in great quantities to people who had no intention
of using it, but who expected that, by the progress of colonisation, it would increase enormously
in value, and might then be sold for splendid prices.

To induce immigrants to bring with them useful property, the Government offered a bonus of
twenty acres for every three pounds worth of goods imported; and the colonists--quite unconscious
of the future that lay before them--carried out great numbers of costly, though often unsuitable,
articles, by means of which the desired grants were obtained. It was found difficult to convey
this property to the town, and much of it was left to rot on the shore, where carriages, pianos,
and articles of rich furniture lay half-buried in sand and exposed to the alternations of sun
and rain.

Splendid horses and cattle of the finest breed had been brought out, but they wandered useless
in the bush. For, till the country was surveyed, nothing could be done in the way of agriculture;
and, even after the surveys were completed, owing to a regulation that those whose grants exceeded
a square mile should be allowed the first choice, all the sections nearest to the town were
obtained by officials and wealthy speculators, who had no intention of using them. Many of
these persons held a district almost as large as an English county, and, therefore, the lands
remaining for selection by farmers and small purchasers were generally far in the interior.
The sections were pointed out on the maps, but the places themselves had never been trodden
by a white man's foot, and were held by tribes of hostile savages. Some, indeed, tried to settle
upon these distant regions, but they were lonely and isolated, and many of them perished, either
from disease and hunger, or by the spears of the natives. Yet there were very few who made
any attempt at agriculture, and the costly ploughs and implements that had been imported lay
rusting on the beach. The horses and cattle died off, the sheep that had been introduced at
great expense were almost all killed through feeding on a poisonous plant, which grew in patches
over the country; and the men themselves were forced to loiter at Perth, consuming their provisions
and chafing at their ruinous inaction.

#4. Mr. Peel.#--There was one gentleman who had spent fifty thousand pounds in bringing with
him to the colony everything that could be required for farming and sheep-breeding on a magnificent
scale. He brought with him three hundred labourers; but the land was by no means so fertile
as he had imagined, and he had scarcely commenced his farming operations when he found that
his only escape from ruin was to enter, single-handed, on the self-dependent life of the ordinary
settler.

#5. Gloomy Prospects.#--Matters grew worse and worse, and those of the disappointed colonists
who had sufficient prudence to start before their means were all exhausted either returned
to Europe or sought the other colonies, where several achieved success--notably the brothers
Henty, who settled at Launceston and established at Portland Bay the whaling station already
mentioned. The gloomy reports of those who reached England prevented any further accession
of immigrants, and in 1835 it was rumoured, though erroneously, that the British Government
intended to abandon the place.

In the following year (1836) the colony of South Australia was founded; and a great extent
of territory previously marked as belonging to West Australia was assigned to the new settlement.
These two colonies, during their early years, experienced trials and difficulties of the same
kind; but while South Australia, in a short time, emerged to a career of brilliant prosperity
through sturdy determination to make the land productive, West Australia for forty years never
enjoyed more than a transitory gleam of success.

#6. Introduction of Convicts.#--This little improvement consisted of a message received from
Earl Grey in 1848 asking the settlers if they were willing to accept convicts in their midst.
The other colonies had refused them, but it was thought not unlikely that West Australia might
be glad to get them. Opinions were divided as to the reply which ought to be given: while some
were averse to the idea, others believed that the money sent out by the British Government
to maintain the convicts and soldiers would originate a trade which might give to the colony
new life and fresh prospects. These arguments prevailed, and in 1849 the first shipload of
convicts arrived. From time to time new gangs were received, and the place began to be much
more populous than before. The shopkeepers in Perth became rich, and the farmer squatters of
the surrounding districts found a ready market for their produce. Yet this success was only
partial; and there was nothing which might be said to constitute general prosperity. In the
little town of Fremantle, the few and scattered houses had still a rural aspect, and the streets
echoed to the sound of no commercial bustle. In Perth the main street was still a grassy walk,
shaded by avenues of trees, and even in the business quarter the houses stood each in the midst
of its spacious garden.

#7. Evils of Convictism.#--West Australia had now to suffer the consequences of having become
a penal settlement. Many of the convicts, on being liberated, took up their abode in the colony;
but their dispositions were seldom either amiable or virtuous, and from the vices of these
men the whole population began to lose character in the eyes of other countries. A large number
of the prisoners were no sooner liberated than they set off for the goldfields in the eastern
colonies, which thus began to share in the evils of convictism. These colonies were not inclined
to suffer long in this manner; and, to defend themselves, they refused admission to any person
who came from West Australia, unless he could show that he had never been a convict. Thus the
colony at Swan River was branded, and held to be contaminated; no free immigrants sought its
shores, and many of its best inhabitants departed.

This stigma continued to rest on West Australia until the year 1868, when the transportation
of criminals from Great Britain altogether ceased, and the colony no longer received its periodical
supply of convicts. Since that time it has, in a great measure, retrieved its character; it
is now doing what it can to attract free immigrants, and offers large tracts of pastoral land
at low rentals, while the farming classes are attracted by free selection at only ten shillings
an acre, with ten years in which to pay it. It has joined Perth to Albany by a good railway,
and several branch railways have been constructed, as well as a large number of telegraph lines;
and at Albany, the town on King George's Sound, it has established a coaling depôt for the
mail steamers on their way to Adelaide, Melbourne, and Sydney. But West Australia is still
what it was called twenty years ago, "the giant skeleton of a colony," consisting of about
forty thousand people, scattered over a hundred thousand square miles of territory, behind
which stretches a vast region of unexplored wilderness. There is every indication, however,
that its progress in the near future will be rapid. Up to 1870 it formed what was called a
Crown colony: the people had no voice in their own government; their affairs were managed for
them by the officers of the English Government. At that date, however, when transportation
was abolished, the colony was promoted to the partial management of its own affairs, and the
people began periodically to elect a Legislative Council. In 1890 it was still further promoted,
being raised to the full dignity of an independent colony, having, like the other colonies
of Australia, a Parliament of two Houses, with power to make and unmake its own laws as it
pleases. Perth is now rapidly increasing, and the colony is on the eve of its palmy days.

CHAPTER XVI.

QUEENSLAND, 1823-1890.

#1. Moreton Bay.#--When Captain Cook, in 1770, sailed into the wide opening of Moreton Bay,
several of his friends on board observed the sea to be paler than usual, and formed the opinion
that, if a careful search were made along the shores, it would be found that a large river
fell into the sea somewhere in the neighbourhood. Cook attached so little weight to this idea
that he did not stay to make any examination; and when, about twenty years later, Captain Flinders
surveyed the same bay, he saw no trace of a river, though he made special search for one.

But the reports of both these travellers were subsequently found to be erroneous; for, in 1823,
when Governor Brisbane sent the discoverer Oxley, in the Mermaid, to select a place for a new
convict station in the northern district of New South Wales, Moreton Bay was found to receive
the waters of a large and important river. His success was, at least in part, due to accident.
Among the blacks, on the shores of the bay, was a naked man, who was seen to be white. This
man was taken on board. He had sailed in an open boat from Sydney, with three others, about
a year before, but had been driven by gales out to sea and far to the north. They had landed
and had been well received by the blacks. The rest had started to walk along the shore to Sydney,
but one man, named Pamphlett, had remained with the natives; and it was he who now was rescued
by Oxley, to whom he gave the information that, when roving inland with the tribe among whom
he was living, he had seen a fine river of fresh water. Under the guidance of Pamphlett, Oxley
left his little vessel in the bay, and with a boat entered upon the broad current of the stream.
Before sunset he had ascended about twenty miles, and had been delighted by the richness of
the scenery and the magnificence of the timber. On the following day he proceeded thirty miles
farther up, and throughout the whole distance found the stream to be broad and of sufficient
depth to be navigable for vessels of considerable size. Oxley was justly proud of his discovery,
and wished to penetrate still farther into the forests that lay beyond; but his boat's crew
had been so exhausted by their long row under a burning sun that he could go no farther, and
found it necessary to turn and glide with the current down to his vessel, which he reached
late on the fourth night. To the stream he had thus discovered he gave the name of the Brisbane
River.

#2. Convict Station.#--On his return he recommended this district as a suitable position for
the new convict station, and during the following year (1824) he was sent to form the settlement.
With a small party, consisting of convicts and their guards, he landed at Redcliff, now known
as Humpy Bong, a peninsula which juts out into Moreton Bay a few miles above the mouth of the
Brisbane. Here the settlement remained for a few months, but afterwards it was moved twenty
miles up the river to that pleasant bend which is now occupied by the city of Brisbane. Here,
under Captain Logan, the first permanent commandant of the settlement, large stone barracks
for the soldiers were erected, and lines of gaols and other buildings for the convicts. And
in these for twelve or fourteen years the lonely community dwelt--about a thousand twice-convicted
prisoners, and a party of soldiers and officials to keep them in order. No free person was
allowed to approach within fifty miles of the settlement, unless with special permission, which
was very sparingly granted. The place was a convict settlement of the harshest type; and stern
were the measures of that relentless commandant, Captain Logan, who flogged and hanged the
unfortunate people under his charge until he became hated with a deadly hatred. He was an active
explorer, and did much to open up the interior country, till at length, on a trip in which
he was accompanied only by some convicts, they glutted their vengeance by spearing him and
battering his head with a native tomahawk.

#3. The Squatters.#--For thirteen years the settlement was not affected by anything that went
on in that outside world from which it was so completely excluded. But in 1840 the onward progress
of squatting enterprise brought free men with sheep and cattle close to Moreton Bay. That fine
district, discovered by Allan Cunningham in 1827, and called by him the Liverpool Plains, had
almost immediately attracted squatters, who by degrees filled up the whole of the available
land, and those who were either new-comers, or who found their flocks increasing too fast for
the size of their runs, were forced to move outward, and, as a rule, northward. It was about
the year 1840 that the pioneers entered that fine tableland district called by Allan Cunningham,
in 1829, the Darling Downs, and when the year 1844 was ended there were at least forty squatters
over the Queensland borders, with nearly 200,000 sheep and 60,000 cattle, and with many hundreds
of shepherds and stockmen to attend them.

#4. A Free Settlement.#--Whilst the squatters were gathering all round, a change took place
at Brisbane itself. We have seen that about 1840 the English Government had resolved to discontinue
transportation, except to Van Diemen's Land. The word, therefore, went forth that Brisbane
was no longer to be a place of exile for criminals. It was to be the home of free men and the
capital of a new district. In 1841 Governor Sir George Gipps arrived from Sydney, and laid
out the plan of what is now a handsome city. Blocks of land were offered for sale to free settlers,
and eagerly bought. The Governor also laid out a little town, now called Ipswich, farther inland.
Meanwhile the township of Drayton, and that which is now much larger, Toowoomba, began to gather
round two wayside inns established for the convenience of travellers. Captain Wickham was sent
up to assume the position of Superintendent of Moreton Bay, which thus became practically a
new colony, just as Port Phillip was in the south, though both were then regarded as only districts
of New South Wales.

#5. The Natives.#--In these early years the squatters of the district were scattered, at wide
intervals, throughout a great extent of country, and, being in the midst of native tribes who
were not only numerous but of a peculiarly hostile disposition, they often found themselves
in a very precarious situation. The blacks swarmed on the runs, killing the sheep, and stealing
the property of the squatters, who had many annoyances to suffer and injuries to guard against.
But their retaliation oftentimes exhibited a ferocity and inhumanity almost incredible in civilised
men.

The Government troopers showed little compunction in destroying scores of natives, and, strange
to say, the most inhuman atrocities were committed by blacks, who were employed to act as troopers.
On one occasion, after the murder of a white man by two blacks, a band of troopers, in the
dead of night, stealthily surrounded the tribe to which the murderers belonged, whilst it was
holding a corrobboree, and, at a given signal, fired a volley into the midst of the dancing
crowd--a blind and ruthless revenge, from which, however, the two murderers escaped. On another
occasion the shepherds and hutkeepers out on a lonely plain had begun to grow afraid of the
troublesome tribes in the neighbourhood, and cunningly made them a present of flour, in which
white arsenic had been mixed. Half a tribe might then have been seen writhing and howling in
the agony of this frightful poison till death relieved them. On such occasions the black tribes
took a terrible revenge when they could, and so the hatred of black for white and white for
black became stronger and deadlier.

#6. Separation.#--In less than five years after the removal of convicts the district began
to agitate for separation from New South Wales; and, in 1851, a petition was sent to the Queen,
urging the right of Moreton Bay to receive the same concession as had, in that year, been made
to Port Phillip. On this occasion their request was not granted, but, on being renewed about
three years later, it met with a very favourable reception; and, in the following year, an
Act was passed by the Imperial Parliament giving to the British Government power to constitute
the new colony. Again, as in the case of Port Phillip, delays occurred; and, in 1856, a change
of Ministry caused the matter to be almost forgotten. It was not until the year 1859 that the
territory to the north of the twenty-ninth parallel of latitude was proclaimed a separate colony,
under the title of QUEENSLAND.

In the December of that year Sir George F. Bowen, the first Governor, arrived; and the little
town of Brisbane, with its 7,000 inhabitants, was raised to the dignity of being a capital,
the seat of government of a territory containing more than 670,000 square miles, though inhabited
by only 25,000 persons. A few months later Queensland received its Constitution, which differed
but little from that of New South Wales. There were established two Houses of Legislature,
one consisting of members nominated by the Governor, and the other elected by the people.

#7. Gold.#--In 1858 it was reported that gold had been discovered far to the north, on the
banks of the Fitzroy River, and in a short time many vessels arrived in Keppel Bay, their holds
and decks crowded with men, who eagerly landed and hastened to Canoona, a place about sixty
or seventy miles up the river. Ere long there were about fifteen thousand diggers on the scene;
but it was soon discovered that the gold was confined to a very small area, and by no means
plentiful; and those who had spent all their money in getting to the place were in a wretched
plight. A large population had been hurriedly gathered in an isolated region, without provisions,
or the possibility of obtaining them; their expectations of the goldfield had been disappointed,
and for some time the Fitzroy River was one great scene of misery and starvation till the Governments
of New South Wales and Victoria sent vessels to convey the unfortunate diggers away from the
place. Some, however, in the extremity of the famine, had selected portions of the fertile
land on the banks of the river, and had begun to cultivate them as farms. They were pleased
with the district, and, having settled down on their land, founded what is now the thriving
city of Rockhampton.

A great amount of success, however, attended a subsequent effort in 1867. The Government of
Queensland offered rewards, varying from two hundred to a thousand pounds, for the discovery
of paying goldfields. The result was that during the course of the next two or three years
many districts were opened up to the miner. Towards the end of 1867 a man named Nash, who had
been wandering in an idle way over the country, found an auriferous region of great extent
at Gympie, about 130 miles from Brisbane. He concealed his discovery for a time, and set to
work to collect as much of the gold as possible, before attracting others to the spot. In the
course of a day or two he gathered several hundred pounds worth of gold, being, however, often
disturbed in his operations by the approach of travellers on the adjacent road, when he had
to crouch among the bushes, until the footsteps died away and he could again pursue his solitary
task. After some time it seemed impossible to avoid discovery; and lest any one should forestall
him in making known the district, he entered Maryborough, not far away, announced his discovery,
and received the reward. A rush took place to the Gympie, which was found to be exceedingly
rich, and it was not long before a nugget worth about four thousand pounds was met with close
to the surface.

Far to the north, on the Palmer River, a tributary of the Mitchell, there have been discovered
rich goldfields, where, in spite of the great heat and dangers from the blacks, there are crowds
of diggers at work. Many thousands of Chinamen have settled down in the district, and to these
the natives seem to have a special antipathy, as they spear them on every possible occasion.

But all the stories which Australia offers of gold-digging romance are eclipsed by that of
the Mount Morgan Mine. Near Rockhampton, and in the midst of that very district to which the
diggers had rushed in 1858, but in which they had starved through being unable to find gold,
a young squatter bought from the Government of Queensland a selection of 640 acres. It was
on a rocky hill, so barren that he considered it useless, and was glad to sell it for £640
to three brothers of the name of Morgan. These gentlemen were lucky enough to find out that
the dirty grey rocks of which the hill was composed were very richly mixed with gold, so that
twenty or thirty pounds worth of gold could be got by crushing and washing every cart-load
of rock. They immediately set to work, and before long showed that they were the possessors
of the richest gold mine in the world. A year or two later the hill was sold at a price equivalent
to eight millions of pounds, and it is now reckoned that it contains gold to the value of at
least double that sum. What a strange adventure for the man who owned it and reckoned it worth
almost nothing!

#8. Cotton.#--Throughout most of the colony the climate is either tropical or semi-tropical,
and it is therefore, in its more fertile parts, well suited to the growth of cotton and sugar.
About the year 1861 the cultivation of the cotton plant was commenced on a small scale; but,
although the plantations were found to thrive, yet the high rate of wages which prevailed in
Queensland, and the low price of cotton in Europe, caused the first attempts to be very unprofitable.

Matters were changed, however, in 1863, for then a great civil war was raging in America; and
as the people of the Southern States were prevented, by the long chain of blockading vessels
stationed by the Northern States along their coasts, from sending their cotton to Europe, there
was a great scarcity of cotton in England, and its price rose to be exceedingly high. This
was a favourable opportunity for Queensland. The plantations were, of course, still as expensive
as ever, but the handsome prices obtained for the cotton not only covered this great expense,
but also left considerable profits. The cultivation of the sugar cane was introduced in 1865,
and, after a few years had passed away, great fields of waving cane were to be seen in various
parts of the country, growing ripe and juicy beneath the tropical sun.

#9. Polynesian Labour.#--The prices of cotton and sugar remained high for some years; but when
the American Civil War was over they fell to their former rates, and the planters of Queensland
found it necessary to obtain some cheaper substitute for their white labourers. At first it
was proposed to bring over Hindoos from India, but nothing came of this idea; and afterwards,
when Chinese were introduced, they were not found to give the satisfaction expected. But it
happened that one of the planters, named Robert Towns, was the owner of a number of ships which
traded to the South Sea Islands, and having persuaded a few of the islanders to cross to Queensland,
he employed them on his sugar plantation. He took some little trouble in teaching them the
work he wished them to do, and found that they soon became expert at it. As the remuneration
they required was very small, they served admirably to supply the necessary cheap labour.

The practice of employing these South Sea Islanders, or "Kanakas," as they were called, soon
became general, and parts of Queensland had all the appearance of the American plantations,
where crowds of dusky figures, decked in the brightest of colours, plied their labours with
laughter and with song, among the tall cane brakes or the bursting pods of cotton. The "Kanakas"
generally worked for a year or two in the colony, then, having received a bundle of goods--consisting
of cloth, knives, hatchets, beads, and so forth, to the value of about £10--they were again
conveyed to their palm-clad islands. A system of this kind was apt to give rise to abuses,
and it was found that a few of the more unscrupulous planters, not content with the ordinary
profits, stooped to the shameful meanness of cheating the poor islander out of his hard-earned
reward. They hurried him on board a vessel, and sent after him a parcel containing a few shillings
worth of property; then, when he reached his home, he found that all his toil and his years
of absence from his friends had procured him only so much trash.

Happily, this was not of very frequent occurrence; but there was another abuse both common
and glaring. As the plantations in Queensland increased, they required more labourers than
were willing to leave their homes in the South Sea Islands; and, as the captains of vessels
were paid by the planters a certain sum of money for every "Kanaka" they brought over, there
was a strong temptation to carry off the natives by force, when, by other means, a sufficient
number could not be obtained. There were frequent conflicts between the crews of labour vessels
and the inhabitants of the islands. The white men burnt the native villages, and carried off
crowds of men and women; while, in revenge, the islanders often surprised a vessel and massacred
its crew; and in such cases the innocent suffered for the guilty. The sailors often had the
baseness to disguise themselves as missionaries, in order the more easily to effect their purpose;
and when the true missionaries, suspecting nothing, approached the natives on their errand
of good will, they were speared or clubbed to death by the unfortunate islanders. But, as a
rule, the "Kanakas" were themselves the sufferers; the English vessels pursued their frail
canoes, ran them down, and sank them; then, while struggling in the sea, the men were seized
and thrust into the hold, and the hatches were fastened down. When in this dastardly manner
a sufficient number had been gathered together, and the dark interior of the ship was filled
with a steaming mass of human beings densely huddled together, the captains set sail for Queensland,
where they landed those of their living cargoes who had escaped the deadly pestilence which
filth and confinement always engendered in such cases.

#10. Polynesian Labourers' Act.#--These were the deeds of a few ruthless and disreputable seamen;
but the people of Queensland, as a whole, had no sympathy with such barbarities, and in 1868
a law was passed to regulate the labour traffic. It enacted that no South Sea Islanders were
to be brought into the colony unless the captain of the vessel could show a document, signed
by a missionary or British consul, stating that they had left the islands of their own free
will; Government agents were to accompany every vessel, in order to see that the "Kanakas"
were well treated on the voyage; and, on leaving the colony, no labourer was to receive less
than six pounds worth of goods for every year he had worked.

These regulations were of great use, but they were often evaded; for, by giving a present to
the king of an island, the sailors could bribe him to force his people to express their willingness
before the missionary. The trembling men were brought forward, and, under the fear of their
chief's revenge, declared their perfect readiness to sail. Sometimes the Government agents
on board the vessels were bribed not to report the misdeeds of the sailors; and in the case
of the Jason, on which the agent was too honest to be so bribed, he was chained below by the
captain, on the pretence that he was mad. When the ship arrived in Queensland, the unfortunate
man was found in a most miserable state of filth and starvation. For this offence the captain
was arrested, tried, and imprisoned. Whatever regulations may be made, a traffic of this sort
will occasionally have its dark and ugly features, yet it may be truly enough said that while
the "Kanakas" have been of great service to Queensland, the colony has also been of service
to them. The islanders are generally glad to be taken; they have better food and easier lives
on the plantations than they have in their homes; they gather a trunkful of property such as
passes for great wealth in the islands, and when they are sent home, after two years' absence,
to their palms and coral shores, it is in full costume, generally in excellent spirits, and
always more or less civilised. Sometimes, poor fellows, they are stripped and plundered by
their naked relatives, but at any rate they help, by what they have learnt, to improve the
style of life in those native groves, so sunny but so full of superstition and barbarous rites.

#11. Present State of the Colony.#--In 1868 Sir George Bowen was sent to govern New Zealand,
and Governor Blackall took charge of affairs in Queensland. He was a man of fine talents, and
amiable character, and was greatly respected by the colonists; but he died not long after his
arrival, and was succeeded by the Marquis of Normanby, who, in his turn, was succeeded, in
1874, by Mr. Cairns. Sir Arthur Kennedy, in 1877, Sir Anthony Musgrave, in 1883, Sir Arthur
Hunter Palmer, in 1888, and General Sir H. Wylie Norman bring the list of Governors to the
present year (1894).

Queensland possesses magnificent resources, which have only recently been made known, and are
now in process of development. Her exports of gold exceed two million pounds a year; she produces
large quantities of tin, copper, silver, and other minerals. The wool clipped from her sheep
exceeds one million four hundred thousand pounds in annual value; and her total exports, including
cotton, sugar, and other tropical productions, amount to about six million pounds per annum.
The population is now about half a million, and immigrants continue to arrive at the rate of
about sixteen thousand a year. Though the youngest of the Australian colonies, Queensland now
ranks fourth on the list, and appears to have a most promising future before her. Her cotton
industry has almost vanished, and her sugar plantations have passed through troublous times,
but there seem to be good hopes for them in the future. However, it will be in the raising
of sheep and of cattle, as well as in gold-mining, that the colony will have to look for her
most permanent resources. She has now nearly twenty million sheep and six million cattle, and
sends wool, tallow, hides, and frozen meat to England, while she supplies prime bullocks for
the Melbourne Market.

#12. The Aborigines.#--Australian history practically begins with the arrival of the white
man, for before that time, though tribe fought with tribe and there were many doings of savage
men, there is nothing that could be told as a general story. Each tribe of from twenty to a
couple of hundred dusky forms wandered over the land, seeking animals to hunt and fresh water
to drink. They were very thinly spread, not more than one person to ten square miles, yet every
little tribe was at deadly feud with its neighbour.

The tribe wandered over the grassy and park-like lands, the men stalking ahead with spears
and boomerang in hand; the women trudging behind loaded with babies, and utensils. At evening
they camp and the men put up frail break-winds, consisting of a few branches and leafy tufts;
behind this on the sheltered side a few leaves made a bed. Meantime the fire was lit close
by, and soon a dozen little columns of blue smoke curl up among the trees. The opossum, or
duck, or wallaby is soon cooked or half-cooked; the men devour as much as they want and pass
on the remains to the women and children. A frog or two and a lizard, or a few grubs taken
out of decayed timber, or perhaps a few roots that have been dug up on the march by the women,
form a sort of dessert. After dusk there is the sound of chatter round the fires; then all
retire to rest, with the glowing embers of the fires to give them warmth. At daybreak all are
awake. If there is food at hand they may stay in the same camp for weeks together, but if not
they journey on.

Each man had as many wives as he could obtain. He did not support them, but they supported
him, and when children became too numerous he lessened his family by killing off a few. More
than half the children were thus destroyed. Their enjoyments consisted of games with a kind
of ball, and mock-fights, but especially in a wild dance they called the corrobboree. They
were in general good-humoured when things went pleasantly; but a man would spear his wife through
the leg or dash his child's brains out readily enough when things were not to his taste, and
nobody would think any the worse of him for it.

CHAPTER XVII.

EXPLORATIONS IN THE INTERIOR, 1840-1860.

#1. Progress of Exploration.#--The coasts of Australia had all been examined before the year
1815. From that date those who wished to make fresh discoveries were obliged to penetrate into
the interior; and we have already seen that, previous to the year 1836, explorers were busy
in opening up the south-east portion of the continent. Oxley had made known the northern districts
of New South Wales, and Allan Cunningham the southern part of what is now the colony of Queensland.
Hume and Hovell, Sturt and Mitchell, had traversed the southern districts of New South Wales
and the territory now occupied by Victoria. Following closely in the footsteps of these intrepid
discoverers, the squatters had entered all these districts, and, wherever the land was suitable,
had settled down with their flocks; so that, ere long, all that corner of Australia which would
be cut off by drawing a straight line from Brisbane to Adelaide was fully surveyed. But there
still remained to be explored about seven-eighths of the continent; and from this date onward
there was an unbroken succession of adventurous travellers, who entered the vast central territory
for the purpose of making known its nature and capacities. But the manner of conducting an
expedition was now very different from what it had been. Previous explorers had been provided
with parties of convicts, and had traversed lands for the greater part grassy and well watered.
These expeditions had their dangers, arising chiefly from the hostility of the blacks; and
Allan Cunningham, his brother Richard, with many others, sacrificed their lives in their ardour
for discovery. But subsequent travellers had to encounter, in addition, the pangs of hunger
and thirst in that dry and desolate country which occupies so great a portion of Central Australia.

#2. Eyre.#--The first on this roll of gallant discoverers was Edward John Eyre, who, in 1840,
offered to conduct an expedition to the interior. He himself provided about half the money
required, the South Australian Government--which was then in difficulties--gave a hundred pounds,
and a number of Eyre's personal friends made up the remainder. With five Europeans, three natives,
and thirteen horses, and with forty sheep to serve as food on the way, he set out from Adelaide
and travelled to the head of Spencer's Gulf, where a small vessel lay waiting to supply them
with provisions sufficient for three months. Having traversed forty or fifty miles of desert
land, he turned to the west, and came in sight of what he called Lake Torrens. It was now dried
up, so that in place of a sheet of water twenty miles broad, he saw only a dreary region covered
with glittering salt. When he entered upon it the thin crust of salt broke, and a thick black
mud oozed up. The party plunged onward for about six miles, the mud becoming always deeper
and deeper, till at length it half covered the saddles of their horses. He was then forced
to turn back, and to seek a passage round this lake of mud; but, having followed its shores
for many miles, there seemed to be so little prospect of reaching the end of the obstacle,
that he turned his course again, from west to north. After travelling about two hundred miles
through a very desolate country, he was once more arrested by coming upon a similar sheet of
salt-encrusted mud, which he called Lake Eyre. Again there appeared no hope of either crossing
the lake or going round it; no water was to be found, and his supplies were fast failing, so
that he was forced to hasten back a long distance to the nearest stream. Setting out once more,
he twice attempted to penetrate westward into the interior, but, on each occasion, the salt
lakes barred his progress, and as a last effort he urged his failing party towards the north-east.
Here the country was the most barren and desolate that can be imagined. It was not always so,
but after a period of drought, when the grass is burnt to the roots and not a drop of fresh
water to be seen in a hundred miles, it has all the appearance of a desert. His supplies of
water ran short, and frequently the explorers were on the point of perishing. When they approached
the Frome River--a creek which flows northwards into Lake Eyre--they were inexpressibly delighted
to view from afar the winding current; but its waters were found to be as salt as the ocean.
After a long and dreary journey, Eyre ascended a hill, in order to see if there was any hope
of finding better country; but the view was only a great and barren level, stretching far away
to the horizon on every side. He had now no water, and his only course was to turn back; so,
leaving this place--which he called Mount Hopeless--he retraced his steps to the head of Spencer's
Gulf.

#3. Australian Bight.#--Here he changed the object of his journey, and made efforts to go along
the shores of the Great Australian Bight, in order to reach West Australia. Three times he
rounded Streaky Bay; but in that bare and desert land the want of water was an insuperable
obstacle, and each time he was forced to retreat to less desolate country. Governor Gawler
now sent word to him to return to Adelaide, as it seemed madness to make further efforts; but
Eyre replied that to go back without having accomplished anything would be a disgrace he could
never endure. Seeing that his only chance of reaching West Australia was to push rapidly forward
with a simple and light equipment, he sent back the whole of his party except Mr. Baxter, his
black servant Wylie, and the other two natives; and taking with him a few horses, carrying
a supply of water and provisions for several weeks, he set out to follow the coast along the
Great Australian Bight. His party had to scramble along the tops of rough cliffs which everywhere
frowned from three hundred to six hundred feet above the sea; and if they left the coast to
travel inland they had to traverse great stretches of moving sands, which filled their eyes
and ears, covered them when asleep, and, when they sat at meals, made their food unpleasant.
But they suffered most from want of water; for often they were obliged to walk day after day
beneath a broiling sun when all their water was gone, and not a drop to be seen on the burning
soil beneath them. On one occasion, after they had thus travelled 110 miles, the horses fell
down from exhaustion, and could not be induced to move. Eyre and a native hastened forward;
but, though they wandered for more than eighteen miles, they saw no sign of water, and when
darkness came on they lay down, with lips parched and burning, and tossed in feverish slumber
till morning. At early dawn they perceived a ridge of sand-hills not far away, and making for
them they found a number of little wells--places where the natives had dug into the sand for
six or eight feet, and so had reached fresh water. Here Eyre and his black companion drank
a delicious draught, and hastened back with the precious beverage to revive the horses. The
whole party was then able to go forward; and there, around these little waterholes, Eyre halted
for a week to refresh his men and animals before attempting another stretch of similar country.
They saw some natives, who told them that there was plenty of water farther on, and when Eyre
set out again he carried very little with him, so as not to overburden the horses. But after
sixty miles of the desert had been traversed without meeting any place in which water was to
be found, he became alarmed, and sent back Mr. Baxter with the horses to bring up a better
supply, whilst he himself remained to take charge of the baggage. When Baxter returned they
all set forward again, and reached a sandy beach, where they had great difficulty in preventing
the horses from drinking the sea-water, which would certainly have made them mad. As it was,
two of them lay down to die, and part of the provisions had to be abandoned. Baxter now grew
despondent, and wished to return; but Eyre was determined not yet to give up. Onward they toiled
through the dreary wilderness, and two more horses fell exhausted; 126 miles from the last
halting-place, and still no signs of water. Still onward, and the horses continued to drop
by the way, Baxter constantly entreating Eyre to return. It was only after a journey of 160
miles that they came to a place where, by digging, they could obtain fresh water in very small
quantities. They were now forced to eke out their failing provisions by eating horseflesh.
Baxter was altogether disheartened; and, if to return had not been as dangerous as to go forward,
Eyre would himself have abandoned the attempt. The three natives, however, were still as light-hearted
and merry as ever; whilst the food lasted they were always full of frolic and laughter.

#4. Death of Baxter.#--Each evening Eyre formed a little camp, loaded the muskets, and laid
them down ready for use in case of an attack by the blacks; the horses were hobbled, and set
free to gather the little vegetation they could find. But this forced Eyre and Baxter to keep
watch by turns, lest they should stray so far as to be lost. One evening when Eyre had taken
the first watch, the horses, in their search for grass, had wandered about a quarter of a mile
from the camp. He had followed them, and was sitting on a stone beneath the moonlight, musing
on his gloomy prospects, when he was startled by a flash and a report. Hastening to the camp,
he was met by Wylie, who was speechless with terror, and could only wring his hands and cry:
"Oh, massa". When he entered, he saw Baxter lying on his face, whilst the baggage was broken
open, and scattered in all directions. He raised the wounded man in his arms, but only in time
to support him as his head fell back in death. Then placing the body on the ground, and looking
around him, he perceived that two of his natives had plundered the provisions, shot Mr. Baxter
as he rose to remonstrate with them, and had then escaped. The moon became obscured, and in
the deep gloom, beside the dead body of his friend, Eyre passed a fearful night, peering into
the darkness lest the miscreants might be lurking near to shoot him also. The slowly-spreading
dawn revealed the bleeding corpse, the plundered bags, and the crouching form of Wylie, who
was still faithful. The ground at this place consisted of a great hard sheet of rock, and there
was no chance of digging a grave; so Eyre could only wrap the body in a blanket, leave it lying
on the surface, and thus take farewell of his friend's remains.

#5. Arrival at King George's Sound.#--Then he and Wylie set out together on their mournful
journey. They had very little water, and seven days elapsed before they reached a place where
more was to be obtained. At intervals they could see the murderers stealthily following their
footsteps, and Eyre was afraid to lie down lest his sleep should prove to have no awaking;
and thus, with parching thirst by day, and hours of watchfulness by night, he slowly made his
way towards King George's Sound. After a time the country became better; he saw and shot two
kangaroos, and once more approached the coast. His surprise was great on seeing two boats some
distance out at sea. He shouted and fired his rifle, without attracting the attention of the
crews. But, on rounding a small cape, he found the vessel to which these boats belonged. It
was a French whaling ship; and the two men, having been taken on board, were hospitably entertained
for eleven days. Captain Rossiter gave them new clothes and abundance of food; and when they
were thoroughly refreshed, they landed to pursue their journey. The country was not now so
inhospitable; and three weeks afterwards they stood on the brow of a hill overlooking the little
town of Albany, at King George's Sound. Here they sat down to rest; but the people, hearing
who they were, came out to escort them triumphantly into the town, where they were received
with the utmost kindness. They remained for eleven days, and then set sail for Adelaide, which
they reached after an absence of one year and twenty-six days.

This expedition was, unfortunately, through so barren a country that it had but little practical
effect beyond the additions it made to our geography; but the perseverance and skill with which
it was conducted are worthy of all honour, and Eyre is to be remembered as the first explorer
who braved the dangers of the Australian desert.

#6. Sturt.#--Two years after the return of Eyre, Captain Sturt, the famous discoverer of the
Darling and Murray, wrote to Lord Stanley offering to conduct an expedition into the heart
of Australia. His offer was accepted; and in May, 1844, a well-equipped party of sixteen persons
was ready to start from the banks of the Darling River. Places which Sturt had explored sixteen
years before, when they were a deep and unknown solitude, were now covered with flocks and
cattle; and he could use, as the starting-place of this expedition, the farthest point he had
reached in that of 1828. Mr. Poole went with him as surveyor, Mr. Browne as surgeon, and the
draughtsman was Mr. J. M'Douall Stuart, who, in this expedition, received a splendid training
for his own great discoveries of subsequent years. Following the Darling, they reached Laidley's
Ponds, passed near Lake Cawndilla, and then struck northward for the interior. The country
was very bare--one dead level of cheerless desert; and when they reached a few hills which
they called Stanley Range, now better known as Barrier Range, Sturt, who ascended to one of
the summits, could see nothing hopeful in the prospect. How little did he dream that the hills
beneath him were full of silver, and that one day a populous city of miners should occupy the
waterless plain in front of him! In this region he had to be very careful how he advanced,
for he had with him eleven horses, thirty bullocks, and two hundred sheep, and water for so
great a multitude could with difficulty be procured. He had always to ride forward and find
a creek or pond of sufficient size, as the next place of encampment, before allowing the expedition
to move on; and, as water was often very difficult to find, his progress was but slow. Fortunately
for the party, it was the winter season, and a few of the little creeks had a moderate supply
of water. But after they had reached a chain of hills, which Sturt called the Grey Range, the
warm season was already upon them. The summer of 1844 was one of the most intense on record;
and in these vast interior plains of sand, under the fiery glare of the sun, the earth seemed
to burn like plates of metal: it split the hoofs of the horses; it scorched the shoes and the
feet of the men; it dried up the water from the creeks and pools, and left all the country
parched and full of cracks. Sturt spent a time of great anxiety, for the streams around were
rapidly disappearing; and, when all the water had been dried up, the prospects of his party
would, indeed, be gloomy. His relief was therefore great when Mr. Poole found a creek in a
rocky basin, whose waters seemed to have a perennial flow. Sturt moved forward, and formed
his depôt beside the stream; and here he was forced to remain for six weeks. For it appeared
as though he had entered a trap; the country before him was absolutely without water, so that
he could not advance; while the creeks behind him were now only dry courses, and it was hopeless
to think of returning. He made many attempts to escape, and struck out into the country in
all directions. In one of his efforts, if he had gone only thirty miles farther, he would have
found the fine stream of Cooper's Creek, in which there was sufficient water for the party;
but hunger and thirst forced him to return to the depôt. He followed down the creek on which
they were encamped, but found that, after a course of twenty-nine miles, it lost itself in
the sand.

Meantime the travellers passed a summer such as few men have ever experienced. The heat was
sometimes as high as 130 deg. in the shade, and in the sun it was altogether intolerable. They
were unable to write, as the ink dried at once on their pens; their combs split; their nails
became brittle and readily broke, and if they touched a piece of metal it blistered their fingers.
In their extremity they dug an underground room, deep enough to be beyond the dreadful furnace-glow
above. Here they spent many a long day, as month after month passed without a shower of rain.
Sometimes they watched the clouds gather, and they could hear the distant roll of thunder,
but there fell not a drop to refresh the dry and dusty desert. The party began to grow thin
and weak; Mr. Poole became ill with scurvy, and from day to day he sank rapidly. At length,
when winter was again approaching, a gentle shower moistened the plain; and, as the only chance
of saving the life of Poole, half of the party was sent to carry him quickly back to the Darling.
They had been gone only a few hours when a messenger rode back with the news that he was already
dead. The mournful cavalcade returned, bearing his remains, and a grave was dug in the wilderness.
A tree close by, on which his initials were cut, formed the only memorial of the hapless explorer.

#7. Journey to the Centre.#--Shortly afterwards there came a succession of wet days, and, as
there was now an abundance of water, the whole party once more set off; having travelled north-west
for sixty-one miles farther, they formed a new depôt, and made excursions to explore the country
in the neighbourhood. M'Douall Stuart crossed over to Lake Torrens; while Sturt, with Dr. Browne
and three men, pushing to the north, discovered the Strzelecki Creek, a stream which flows
through very agreeable country. But as they proceeded farther to the north their troubles began
again; they came upon a region covered with hill after hill of fiery red sand, amid which lay
lagoons of salt and bitter water. They toiled over this weary country in hopes that a change
for the better might soon appear; but when they reached the last hill, they had the mortification
to see a great plain, barren, monotonous and dreary, stretching with a purple glare as far
as the eye could reach on every side. This plain was called by Sturt the "Stony Desert," for,
on descending, he found it covered with innumerable pieces of quartz and sandstone, among which
the horses wearily stumbled. Sturt wished to penetrate as far as the tropic of Capricorn; but
summer was again at hand, their water was failing, and they could find neither stream nor pool.
When the madness of any farther advance became apparent, Sturt, with his head buried in his
hands, sat for an hour in bitter disappointment. After toiling so far, and reaching within
150 miles of his destination, to be turned back for the want of a little water was a misfortune
very hard to bear, and, but for his companions, he would have still gone forward and perished.
As they hastened back their water was exhausted, and they were often in danger of being buried
by moving hills of sand; but at length they reached the depôt, having traversed 800 miles during
the eight weeks of their absence.

It was not long before Sturt started again, taking with him M'Douall Stuart as his companion.
On this trip he suffered the same hardships, but had the satisfaction of discovering a magnificent
stream, which he called Cooper's Creek. On crossing this creek he again entered the Stony Desert,
and was once more compelled reluctantly to retrace his steps. When he reached the depôt he
was utterly worn out. He lay in bed for a long time, tenderly nursed by his companions; and,
when the whole party set out on its return to the settled districts, he had to be lifted in
and out of the dray in which he was carried. As they neared their homes his sight began to
fail. The glare of the burning sands had destroyed his eyes, and he passed the remainder of
his days in darkness. His reports of the arid country gave rise to the opinion that the whole
interior of Australia was a desert; but this was afterwards found to be far from correct.

#8. Leichardt.#--Allan Cunningham's discoveries extended over the northern parts of New South
Wales and the southern districts of Queensland. But all the north-eastern parts of the continent
were left unexplored until 1844, when an intrepid young German botanist, named Ludwig Leichardt,
made known this rich and fertile country. With five men he started from Sydney, and, passing
through splendid forests and magnificent pasture lands, he made his way to the Gulf of Carpentaria,
discovering and following up many large rivers--the Fitzroy, with its tributaries--the Dawson,
the Isaacs and the Mackenzie; the Burdekin, with several of its branches; then the Mitchell;
and, lastly, the Gilbert. He also crossed the Flinders and Albert, without knowing that, a
short time previously, these rivers had been discovered and named by Captain Stokes, who was
exploring the coasts in a British war-ship. Having rounded the gulf, he discovered the Roper,
and followed the Alligator River down to Van Diemen's Gulf, where a vessel was waiting to receive
his party. On his return to Sydney the utmost enthusiasm prevailed; for Leichardt had made
known a wide stretch of most valuable country. The people of Sydney raised a subscription of
£1,500, and the Government rewarded his services with £1,000. Leichardt was of too ardent a
nature to remain content with what he had already done; and, in 1847, he again set out to make
further explorations in the north of Queensland. On this occasion, however, he was not so successful.
He had taken with him great flocks of sheep and goats, and they impeded his progress so much
that, after wandering over the Fitzroy Downs for about seven months, he was forced to return.
In 1848 he organised a third expedition, to cross the whole country from east to west. He proposed
to start from Moreton Bay, and to take two years in traversing the centre of the continent,
so as to reach the Swan River settlement. He set out with a large party, and soon reached the
Cogoon River, a tributary of the Condamine. From this point he sent to a friend in Sydney a
letter, in which he described himself as in good spirits, and full of hope that the expedition
would be a success. He then started into the wilderness, and was lost for ever from men's view.
For many years parties were, from time to time, sent out to rescue the missing explorers, if
perchance they might still be wandering with the blacks in the interior; but no traces of the
lost company have ever been brought to light.

#9. Mitchell.#--Whilst Leichardt was absent on his first journey, Sir Thomas Mitchell--the
discoverer of the Glenelg--had prepared an expedition for the exploration of Queensland. Having
waited till the return of Leichardt, in order not to go over the same ground, he set out towards
the north, and, after discovering the Culgoa and Warrego--two important tributaries of the
Darling--he turned to the west. He travelled over a great extent of level country, and then
came upon a river which somewhat puzzled him. He followed the current for 150 miles, and it
seemed to flow steadily towards the heart of the continent. He thought that its waters must
eventually find their way to the sea, and would, therefore, after a time, flow north to the
Indian Ocean. If that were the case, the river--which the natives called the Barcoo--must be
the largest stream on the northern coast, and he concluded that it was identical with the Victoria,
whose mouth had been discovered about nine years before by Captain Stokes. He, therefore, provisionally
gave it the name of the Victoria River.

#10. Kennedy.#--On the return of Mitchell, the further prosecution of exploration in these
districts was left to his assistant-surveyor--Edmund Kennedy--who, having been sent to trace
the course of the supposed Victoria River, followed its banks for 150 miles below the place
where Mitchell had left it. He was then forced to return through want of provisions; but he
had gone far enough, however, to show that this stream was only the higher part of Cooper's
Creek, discovered not long before by Captain Sturt. This river has a course of about 1,200
miles; and it is, therefore, the largest of Central Australia. But its waters spread out into
the broad marshes of Lake Eyre, and are there lost by evaporation.

In 1848 Kennedy was sent to explore Cape York Peninsula. He was landed with a party of twelve
men at Rockingham Bay, and, striking inland to the north-west, travelled towards Cape York,
where a small schooner was to wait for him. The difficulties met by the explorers were immense;
for, in these tropical regions, dense jungles of prickly shrubs impeded their course and lacerated
their flesh, while vast swamps often made their journey tedious and unexpectedly long. Thinking
there was no necessity for all to endure these hardships, he left eight of his companions at
Weymouth Bay, intending to call for them on his way back in the schooner. He was courageously
pushing through the jungle towards the north with three men and his black servant Jackey, when
one of the party accidentally received a severe gunshot wound, which made it impossible for
him to proceed. Kennedy was now only a few miles distant from Cape York; and, leaving the wounded
man under the care of the two remaining whites, he started--accompanied by Jackey--to reach
the cape and obtain assistance from the schooner. They had not gone far, and were on the banks
of the Escape River, when they perceived that their steps were being closely followed by a
tribe of natives, whose swarthy bodies, from time to time, appeared among the trees. Kennedy
now proceeded warily, keeping watch all around; but a spear, urged by an unseen hand from among
the leaves, suddenly pierced his body from behind, and he fell. The blacks rushed forward,
but Jackey fired, and at the report they hastily fled. Jackey held up his master's head for
a short time, weeping bitterly. Kennedy knew he was dying, and he gave his faithful servant
instructions as to the papers he was to carry, and the course he must follow. Not long after
this he breathed his last, and Jackey, with his tomahawk, dug a shallow grave for him in the
forest. He spread his coat and shirt in the hollow, laid the body tenderly upon them, and covered
it with leaves and branches. Then, packing up the journals, he plunged into the creek, along
which he walked, with only his head above the surface, until he neared the shore. Hastily making
for the north, he reached the cape, where he was taken on board the schooner. This expedition
was one of the most disastrous of the inland explorations. The wounded man, and the two who
had been left with him, were never afterwards heard of--in all probability they were slaughtered
by the natives; whilst the party of eight, who had been left at Weymouth Bay, after constant
struggles with the natives, had been reduced, by starvation and disease, to only two ere the
expected relief arrived.

#11. Gregory.#--In 1856 A. C. Gregory went in search of Leichardt, and, thinking he might possibly
have reached the north-west coast, took a small party to Cambridge Gulf. Travelling along the
banks of the Victoria River, he crossed a low range of hills and discovered a stream, to which
he gave the name of "Sturt Creek". By following this, he was led into a region covered with
long ridges of glaring red sand, resembling those which had baffled Captain Sturt, except that
in this desert there grew the scattered blades of the spinifex grass, which cut like daggers
into the hoofs of the horses. The creek was lost in marshes and salt lakes, and Gregory was
forced to retrace his steps till he reached the great bend in the Victoria River; then, striking
to the east, he skirted the Gulf of Carpentaria about fifty miles from the shore; and, after
a long journey, arrived at Moreton Bay, but without any news regarding Leichardt and his party.
His expedition, however, had explored a great extent of country, and had mapped out the courses
of two large rivers--the Victoria and the Roper.

CHAPTER XVIII.

DISCOVERIES IN THE INTERIOR, 1860-1886.

