McTavish cracked his whip over the dogs' backs, and, leaping on the sledge as it passed, shot
down the river to the big lake. But there, after a swift trip of an hour and a half, he found
the same conditions. Voudrin's cabin, however, showed signs of more recent occupancy than had
Whiskey Bill's. A pair of snowshoes bound high against the wall, an old pair of fur gloves,
and a few pots and pans, indicated that the Frenchman would probably return. But, in the meantime,
McTavish had these questions to answer: Where had the men gone? And why?

The swift darkness was coming on, and, in the absence of information regarding Seguis, Donald
decided to spend the night in Voudrin's cabin, in the hope that the man might return by daylight.
It was possible the Frenchman had a three-day line of traps, and was out making the rounds,
camping in the forest trails, wherever darkness overtook him.

Though chafing at the delay and the tricks of circumstance, Donald knew that he could do no
better than follow this plan, and so set about unpacking for the night and preparing food for
both himself and his dogs. Soon there was a roaring fire in the stone fireplace at the end
of the one-room shanty, and the odor of frying meat pervaded the atmosphere. Presently, he
went outside to cut fresh spruce boughs for the rough bunk.

In the woods he heard a noise. He looked up and found himself face to face with two silent
Indians, who stood looking at him gravely. Although he was not sure, he thought he recognized
them as a couple of the early risers that had waved him good-by the day he started from Fort
Severn. The impression was only a passing one, however.

"Well, what do you want?" demanded the Scotchman, crisply.

For reply, one of the men reached inside his hunting-coat, and fumbled a moment. Then he drew
forth a scrap of very dirty, wrinkled paper, which he extended without a word.

Amazed, Donald took it and tried to read the hastily scribbled contents. The handwriting alone
made his heart leap with surprise and hope. It must have been five minutes before he finished
struggling in the dim light. Then, with his face puckered in a scowl of perplexity, he turned
to address the bearers of the message.

They were gone. So intense had been his concentration that they had shuffled away in the darkness
unnoticed.

Still scowling, Donald thrust the note into a pocket, gathered up a double armful of spruce
boughs, and went inside the shanty. There, he sat down on an upturned box, and pulled forth
the note again. He read:

   If you wish to do the company a great service drop your pursuit
   of Charley Seguis and head for Sturgeon Lake. You will find
   there something of great importance, but what it is I have no
   idea, as my informants could not say. There is a gathering there,
   but I know nothing more than that. In sending this to you by
   bearers (they ought to reach Fort Dickey almost as you leave in
   search of Seguis), I am acting on my own responsibility. What
   you said the other day about my being old enough to think for
   myself has taken root, you see. If you profit by this suggestion
   I shall be happy.

   Sincerely,

   JEAN FITZPATRICK.

In a sort of stupefaction induced by many emotions clamoring for recognition at once, Donald
sat staring at the fire while the meat burned black. In love though he was, first and foremost
into his mind leaped consideration of the Company. He had been sent to hunt down a murderer.
By the unwritten code, he must hang to the trail like a bulldog, even if the chase required
six months and led him through the Selkirks to the Pacific. Charley Seguis must answer before
a tribunal for his crime.

