The rough schooling of French hostility was necessary for the development of those qualities
among the British colonists which enabled them finally to break the bonds of pupilage and stand
alone. Some degree of united action had been effected among the several and widely-different
states; the local governments had learned how to raise and support armies, and to consider
military movements. On many occasions the provincial militia had borne themselves with distinguished
bravery in the field; several of their officers had gained honorable repute; already the name
of WASHINGTON called a flush of pride upon each American cheek. The stirring events of the
contest with Canada had brought men of ability and patriotism into the strong light of active
life, and the eyes of their countrymen sought their guidance in trusting confidence. Through
the instrumentality of such men as these the American Revolution was shaped into the dignity
of a national movement, and preserved from the threatening evils of an insane democracy.

The consequences of the Canadian war furnished the cause of the quarrel which led to the separation
of the great colonies from the mother country. England had incurred enormous debt in the contest;
her people groaned under taxation, and the wealthy Americans had contributed in but a very
small proportion to the cost of victories by which they were the principal gainers. The British
Parliament devised an unhappy expedient to remedy this evil: it assumed the right of taxing
the unrepresented colonies, and taxed them accordingly. Vain was the prophetic eloquence of
Lord Chatham; vain were the just and earnest remonstrances of the best and wisest among the
colonists: the time was come. Then followed years of stubborn and unyielding strife; the blood
of the same race gave sterner determination to the quarrel. The balance of success hung equally.
Once again France appeared upon the stage in the Western world, and La Fayette revenged the
fall of Montcalm.

However we may regret the cause and conduct of the Revolutionary war, we can hardly regret
its result. The catastrophe was inevitable: the folly or wisdom of British statesmen could
only have accelerated or deferred it. The child had outlived the years of pupilage; the interests
of the old and the young required a separate household. But we must ever mourn the mode of
separation: a bitterness was left that three quarters of a century has hardly yet removed;
and a dark page remains in our annals, that tells of a contest begun in injustice, conducted
with mingled weakness and severity, and ended in defeat. The cause of human freedom, perhaps
for ages, depended upon the issue of the quarrel. Even the patriot minister merged the apparent
interests of England in the interests of mankind. By the light of Lord Chatham's wisdom we
may read the disastrous history of that fatal war, with a resigned and tempered sorrow for
the glorious inheritance rent away from us forever.

The reaction of the New World upon the Old may be distinctly traced through the past and the
present, but human wisdom may not estimate its influence on the future. The lessons of freedom
learned by the French army while aiding the revolted colonies against England were not forgotten.
On their return to their native country, they spread abroad tidings that the new people of
America had gained a treasure richer a thousand-fold than those which had gilded the triumphs
of Cortes or Pizarro--the inestimable prize of liberty. Then the down-trampled millions of
France arose, and with avaricious haste strove for a like treasure. They won a specious imitation,
so soiled and stained, however, that many of the wisest among them could not at once detect
its nature. They played with the coarse bawble for a time, then lost it in a sea of blood.

Doubtless the tempest that broke upon France had long been gathering. The rays that emanated
from such false suns as Voltaire and Rousseau had already drawn up a moral miasma from the
swamps of sensual ignorance: under the shade of a worthless government these noxious mists
collected into the clouds from whence the desolating storm of the Revolution burst. It was,
however, the example of popular success in the New World, and the republican training of a
portion of the French army during the American contest, that finally accelerated the course
of events. A generation before the "Declaration of Independence" the struggle between the rival
systems of Canada and New England had been watched by thinking men in Europe with deep interest,
and the importance to mankind of its issue was fully felt. While France mourned the defeat
of her armies and the loss of her magnificent colony, the keen-sighted philosopher of Ferney
gave a banquet to celebrate the British triumph at Quebec, not as the triumph of England over
France, but as that of freedom over despotism.[1]

The overthrow of French by British power in America was not the effect of mere military superiority.
The balance of general success and glory in the field is no more than shared with the conquered
people. The morbid national vanity, which finds no delight but in the triumphs of the sword,
will shrink from the study of this checkered story. The narrative of disastrous defeat and
doubtful advantage must be endured before we arrive at that of the brilliant victory which
crowned our arms with final success. We read with painful surprise of the rout and ruin of
regular British regiments by a crowd of Indian savages, and of the bloody repulse of the most
numerous army that had yet assembled round our standards in America before a few weak French
battalions and an unfinished parapet.

For the first few years our prosecution of the Canadian war was marked by a weakness little
short of imbecility. The conduct of the troops was indifferent, the tactics of the generals
bad, and the schemes of the minister worse. The coarse but powerful wit of Smollett and Fielding,
and the keen sarcasms of "Chrysal," convey to us no very exalted idea of the composition of
the British army in those days. The service had sunk into contempt. The withering influence
of a corrupt patronage had demoralized the officers; successive defeats, incurred through the
inefficiency of courtly generals, had depressed the spirit of the soldiery, and, were it not
for the proof shown upon the bloody fields of La Feldt and Fontenoy, we might almost suppose
that English manhood had become an empty name.

Many of the battalions shipped off to take part in the American contest were hasty levies without
organization or discipline: the colonel, a man of influence, with or without other qualifications,
as the case might be; the officers, his neighbors and dependents. These armed mobs found themselves
suddenly landed in a country, the natural difficulty of which would of itself have proved a
formidable obstacle, even though unenhanced by the presence of an active and vigilant enemy.
At the same time, there devolved upon them the duties and the responsibilities of regular troops.
A due consideration of these circumstances tends to diminish the surprise which a comparison
of their achievements with those recorded in our later military annals might create.

Very different were the ranks of the American army from the magnificent regiments whose banners
now bear the crowded records of Peninsular and Indian victory; who, within the recollection
of living men, have stood as conquerors upon every hostile land, yet never once permitted a
stranger to tread on England's sacred soil but as a prisoner, fugitive, or friend. In Cairo
and Copenhagen; in Lisbon, Madrid, and Paris; in the ancient metropolis of China; in the capital
of the young American republic, the British flag has been hailed as the symbol of a triumphant
power or of a generous deliverance. Well may we cherish an honest pride in the prowess and
military virtue of our soldiers, loyal alike to the crown and to the people; facing in battle,
with unshaken courage, the deadly shot and sweeping charge, and, with a still loftier valor,
enduring, in times of domestic troubles, the gibes and injuries of their misguided countrymen.

In the stirring interest excited by the progress and rivalry of our kindred races in America,
the sad and solemn subject of the Indian people is almost forgotten. The mysterious decree
of Providence which has swept them away may not be judged by human wisdom. Their existence
will soon be of the past. They have left no permanent impression on the constitution of the
great nation which now spreads over their country. No trace of their blood, language, or manners
may be found among their haughty successors. As certainly as their magnificent forests fell
before the advancing tide of civilization, they fell also. Neither the kindness nor the cruelty
of the white man arrested or hastened their inevitable fate. They withered alike under the
Upas-shade of European protection and before the deadly storm of European hostility. As the
snow in spring they melted away, stained, tainted, trampled down.

The closing scene of French dominion in Canada was marked by circumstances of deep and peculiar
interest. The pages of romance can furnish no more striking episode than the battle of Quebec.
The skill and daring of the plan which brought on the combat, and the success and fortune of
its execution, are unparalleled. There a broad, open plain, offering no advantages to either
party, was the field of fight. The contending armies were nearly equal in military strength,
if not in numbers. The chiefs of each were men already of honorable fame. France trusted firmly
in the wise and chivalrous Montcalm; England trusted hopefully in the young and heroic Wolfe.
The magnificent stronghold which was staked upon the issue of the strife stood close at hand.
For miles and miles around, the prospect extended over as fair a land as ever rejoiced the
sight of man; mountain and valley, forest and waters, city and solitude, grouped together in
forms of almost ideal beauty.

The strife was brief, but deadly. The September sun rose upon two gallant armies arrayed in
unbroken pride, and noon of the same day saw the ground where they had stood strewn with the
dying and the dead. Hundreds of the veterans of France had fallen in the ranks, from which
they disdained to fly; the scene of his ruin faded fast from Montcalm's darkening sight, but
the proud consciousness of having done his duty deprived defeat and death of their severest
sting. Not more than a musket-shot away lay Wolfe; the heart that but an hour before had throbbed
with great and generous impulse, now still forever. On the face of the dead there rested a
triumphant smile, which the last agony had not overcast; a light of unfailing hope, that the
shadows of the grave could not darken.

The portion of history here recorded is no fragment. Within a period comparatively brief, we
see the birth, the growth, and the catastrophe of a nation. The flag of France is erected at
Quebec by a handful of hardy adventurers; a century and a half has passed, and that flag is
lowered to a foreign foe before the sorrowing eyes of a Canadian people. This example is complete
as that presented in the life of an individual: we see the natural sequence of events; the
education and the character, the motive and the action, the error and the punishment. Through
the following records may be clearly traced combinations of causes, remote, and even apparently
opposed, uniting in one result, and also the surprising fertility of one great cause in producing
many different results.

Were we to read the records of history by the light of the understanding instead of by the
fire of the passions, the study could be productive only of unmixed good; their examples and
warnings would afford us constant guidance in the paths of public and private virtue. The narrow
and unreasonable notion of exclusive national merit can not survive a fair glance over the
vast map of time and space which history lays before us. We may not avert our eyes from those
dark spots upon the annals of our beloved land where acts of violence and injustice stand recorded
against her, nor may we suffer the blaze of military renown to dazzle our judgment. Victory
may bring glory to the arms, while it brings shame to the councils of a people; for the triumphs
of war are those of the general and the soldier; increase of honor, wisdom, and prosperity
are the triumphs of the nation.

The citizens of Rome placed the images of their ancestors in the vestibule, to recall the virtues
of the dead, and to stimulate the emulation of the living. We also should fix our thoughts
upon the examples which history presents, not in a vain spirit of selfish nationality, but
in earnest reverence for the great and good of all countries, and a contempt for the false,
and mean, and cruel even of our own.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: See Appendix, No. I. (see Vol II)]

THE CONQUEST OF CANADA.

CHAPTER I.

The philosophers of remote antiquity acquired the important knowledge of the earth's spherical
form; to their bold genius we are indebted for the outline of the geographical system now universally
adopted. With a vigorous conception, but imperfect execution, they traced out the scheme of
denoting localities by longitude and latitude: according to their teaching, the imaginary equatorial
line, encompassing the earth, was divided into hours and degrees.

Even at that distant period hardy adventurers had penetrated far away into the land of the
rising sun, and many a wondrous tale was told of that mysterious empire, where one third of
our fellow-men still stand apart from the brotherhood of nations. Among the various and astounding
exaggerations induced by the vanity of the narrators, and the ignorance of their audience,
none was more ready than that of distance. The journey, the labor of a life; each league of
travel a new scene; the day crowded with incident, the night a dream of terror or admiration.
Then, as the fickle will of the wanderer suggested, as the difficulties or encouragement of
nature, and the hostility or aid of man impelled, the devious course bent to the north or south,
was hastened, hindered, or retraced.

By such vague and shadowy measurement as the speculations of these wanderers supplied, the
sages of the past traced out the ideal limits of the dry land which, at the word of God, appeared
from out the gathering together of the waters.[2]

The most eminent geographer before the time of Ptolemy places the confines of Seres--the China
of to-day--at nearly two thirds of the distance round the world, from the first meridian.[3]
Ptolemy reduces the proportion to one half. Allowing for the supposed vast extent of this unknown
country to the eastward, it was evident that its remotest shores approached our Western World.
But, beyond the Pillars of Hercules, the dark and stormy waters of the Atlantic[5] forbade
adventure. The giant minds of those days saw, even through the mists of ignorance and error,
that the readiest course to reach this distant land must lie toward the setting sun, across
the western ocean.[6] From over this vast watery solitude no traveler had ever brought back
the story of his wanderings. The dim light of traditionary memory gave no guiding ray, the
faint voice of rumor breathed not its mysterious secrets. Then poetic imagination filled the
void; vast islands were conjured up out of the deep, covered with unheard-of luxuriance of
vegetation, rich in mines of incalculable value, populous with a race of conquering warriors.
But this magnificent vision was only created to be destroyed; a violent earthquake rent asunder
in a day and a night the foundations of Atlantis, and the waters of the Western Ocean swept
over the ruins of this once mighty empire.[7] In after ages we are told, that some Phoenician
vessels, impelled by a strong east wind, were driven for thirty days across the Atlantic: there
they found a part of the sea where the surface was covered with rushes and sea-weed, somewhat
resembling a vast inundated meadow.[8] The voyagers ascribed these strange appearances to some
cause connected with the submerged Atlantis, and even in later years they were held by many
as confirmation of Plato's marvelous story.[9]

In the Carthaginian annals is found the mention of a fertile and beautiful island of the distant
Atlantic. Many adventurous men of that maritime people were attracted thither by the delightful
climate and the riches of the soil; it was deemed of such value and importance that they proposed
to transfer the seat of their republic to its shores in case of any irreparable disaster at
home. But at length the Senate, fearing the evils of a divided state, denounced the distant
colony, and decreed the punishment of death to those who sought it for a home. If there be
any truth in this ancient tale, it is probable that one of the Canary Islands was its subject.[10]

Although the New World in the West was unknown to the ancients, there is no doubt that they
entertained a suspicion of its existence;[11] the romance of Plato--the prophecy of Seneca,
were but the offsprings of this vague idea. Many writers tell us it was conjectured that, by
sailing from the coast of Spain, the eastern shores of India might be reached;[13] the length
of the voyage, or the wonders that might lie in its course, imagination alone could measure
or describe. Whatever might have been the suspicion or belief[14] of ancient time, we may feel
assured that none then ventured to seek these distant lands, nor have we reason to suppose
that any of the civilized European races gave inhabitants to the New World before the close
of the fifteenth century.

To the barbarous hordes of Northeastern Asia America must have long been known as the land
where many of their wanderers found a home. It is not surprising that from them no information
was obtained; but it is strange that the bold and adventurous Northmen should have visited
it nearly five hundred years before the great Genoese, and have suffered their wonderful discovery
to remain hidden from the world, and to become almost forgotten among themselves.[15]

In the year 1001 the Icelanders touched upon the American coast, and for nearly two centuries
subsequent visits were repeatedly made by them and the Norwegians, for the purpose of commerce
or for the gratification of curiosity. Biorn Heriolson, an Icelander, was the first discoverer:
steering for Greenland, he was driven to the south by tempestuous and unfavorable winds, and
saw different parts of America, without, however, touching at any of them. Attracted by the
report of this voyage, Leif, son of Eric, the discoverer of Greenland, fitted out a vessel
to pursue the same adventure. He passed the coast visited by Biorn, and steered southwest till
he reached a strait between a large island and the main land. Finding the country fertile and
pleasant, he passed the winter near this place, and gave it the name of Vinland,[16] from the
wild vine which grew there in great abundance.[17] The winter days were longer in this new
country than in Greenland, and the weather was more temperate.

Leif returned to Greenland in the spring; his brother Thorvald succeeded him, and remained
two winters in Vinland exploring much of the coast and country.[19] In the course of the third
summer the natives, now called Esquimaux, were first seen; on account of their diminutive stature
the adventurers gave them the name of Skrælingar.[20] These poor savages, irritated by an act
of barbarous cruelty, attacked the Northmen with darts and arrows, and Thorvald fell a victim
to their vengeance. A wealthy Icelander, named Thorfinn, established a regular colony in Vinland
soon after this event; the settlers increased rapidly in numbers, and traded with the natives
for furs and skins to great advantage. After three years the adventurers returned to Iceland
enriched by the expedition, and reported favorably upon the new country. Little is known of
this settlement after Thorfinn's departure till early in the twelfth century, when a bishop
of Greenland[21] went there to promulgate the Christian faith among the colonists; beyond that
time scarcely a notice of its existence occurs, and the name and situation of the ancient Vinland
soon passed away from the knowledge of man. Whether the adventurous colonists ever returned,
or became blended with the natives,[22] or perished by their hands, no record remains to tell.[23]

Discoveries such as these by the ancient Scandinavians--fruitless to the world and almost buried
in oblivion--can not dim the glory of that transcendant genius to whom we owe the knowledge
of a New World.

The claim of the Welsh to the first discovery of America seems to rest upon no better original
authority than that of Meridith-ap-Rees, a bard who died in the year 1477. His verses only
relate that Prince Madoc, wearied with dissensions at home, searched the ocean for a new kingdom.
The tale of this adventurer's voyages and colonization was written one hundred years subsequent
to the early Spanish discoveries, and seems to be merely a fanciful completion of his history:
he probably perished in the unknown seas. It is certain that neither the ancient principality
nor the world reaped any benefit from these alleged discoveries.[24]

In the middle of the thirteenth and the beginning of the fourteenth centuries, the Venetian
Marco Polo[25] and the Englishman Mandeville[26] awakened the curiosity of Europe with respect
to the remote parts of the earth. Wise and discerning men selected the more valuable portions
of their observations; ideas were enlarged, and a desire for more perfect information excited
a thirst for discovery. While this spirit was gaining strength in Europe, the wonderful powers
of the magnet were revealed to the Western World.[27] The invention of the mariner's compass
aided and extended navigation more than all the experience and adventure of preceding ages:
the light of the stars, the guidance of the sea-coast, were no longer necessary; trusting to
the mysterious powers of his new friend, the sailor steered out fearlessly into the ocean,
through the bewildering mists or the darkness of night.

The Spaniards were the first to profit by the bolder spirit and improved science of navigation.
About the beginning of the fourteenth century, they were led to the accidental discovery of
the Canary Islands,[28] and made repeated voyages thither, plundering the wretched inhabitants,
and carrying them off as slaves.[29] Pope Clement VI. conferred these countries as a kingdom
upon Louis de la Cerda, of the royal race of Castile; he, however, was powerless to avail himself
of the gift, and it passed to the stronger hand of John de Bethancourt, a Norman baron.[30]
The countrymen of this bold adventurer explored the seas far to the south of the Canary Islands,
and acquired some knowledge of the coast of Africa.

The glory of leading the career of systematic exploration belongs to the Portuguese:[31] their
attempts were not only attended with considerable success, but gave encouragement and energy
to those efforts that were crowned by the discovery of a world: among them the great Genoese
was trained, and their steps in advance matured the idea, and aided the execution of his design.
The nations of Europe had now begun to cast aside the errors and prejudices of their ancestors.
The works of the ancient Greeks and Romans were eagerly searched for information, and former
discoveries brought to light.[32] The science of the Arabians was introduced and cultivated
by the Moors and Jews, and geometry, astronomy, and geography were studied as essential to
the art of navigation.

In the year 1412, the Portuguese doubled Cape Non, the limit of ancient enterprise. For upward
of seventy years afterward they pursued their explorations, with more or less of vigor and
success, along the African coast, and among the adjacent islands. By intercourse with the people
of these countries they gradually acquired some knowledge of lands yet unvisited. Experience
proved that the torrid zone was not closed to the enterprise of man.[33] They found that the
form of the continent contracted as it stretched southward, and that it tended toward the east.
Then they brought to mind the accounts of the ancient Phoenician voyagers round Africa,[34]
long deemed fabulous, and the hope arose that they might pursue the same career, and win for
themselves the magnificent prize of Indian commerce. In the year 1486 the adventurous Bartholomew
Diaz[35] first reached the Cape of Good Hope; soon afterward the information gained by Pedro
de Covilham, in his overland journey, confirmed the consequent sanguine expectations of success.
The attention of Europe was now fully aroused, and the progress of the Portuguese was watched
with admiration and suspense. But during this interval, while all eyes were turned with anxious
interest toward the East, a little bark, leaky and tempest-tossed, sought shelter in the Tagus.[36]
It had come from the Far West--over that stormy sea where, from the creation until then, had
brooded an impenetrable mystery. It bore the richest freight[37] that ever lay upon the bosom
of the deep--the tidings of a New World.[38]

It would be but tedious to repeat here all the well-known story of Christopher Columbus;[39]
his early dangers and adventures, his numerous voyages, his industry, acquirements, and speculations,
and how at length the great idea arose in his mind, and matured itself into a conviction; then
how conviction led to action, checked and interrupted, but not weakened, by the doubts of pedantic
ignorance,[40] and the treachery,[41] coolness, or contempt of courts. On Friday,[42] the 3d
of August, 1492, a squadron of three small, crazy ships, bearing ninety men, sailed from the
port of Palos, in Andalusia. Columbus, the commander and pilot, was deeply impressed with sentiments
of religion; and, as the spread of Christianity was one great object of the expedition, he
and his followers before their departure had implored the blessing of Heaven[43] upon the voyage,
from which they might never return.

