LETTER TO A YOUNG CONTRIBUTOR.

My dear young gentleman or young lady,--for many are the Cecil Dreemes of literature who superscribe
their offered manuscripts with very masculine names in very feminine handwriting,--it seems
wrong not to meet your accumulated and urgent epistles with one comprehensive reply, thus condensing
many private letters into a printed one. And so large a proportion of "Atlantic" readers either
might, would, could, or should be "Atlantic" contributors also, that this epistle will be sure
of perusal, though Mrs. Stowe remain uncut and the Autocrat go for an hour without readers.

Far from me be the wild expectation that every author will not habitually measure the merits
of a periodical by its appreciation of his or her last manuscript. I should as soon ask a young
lady not to estimate the management of a ball by her own private luck in respect to partners.
But it is worth while at least to point out that in the treatment of every contribution the
real interests of editor and writer are absolutely the same, and any antagonism is merely traditional,
like the supposed hostility between France and England, or between England and Slavery. No
editor can ever afford the rejection of a good thing, and no author the publication of a bad
one. The only difficulty lies in drawing the line. Were all offered manuscripts unequivocally
good or bad, there would be no great trouble; it is the vast range of mediocrity which perplexes:
the majority are too bad for blessing and too good for banning; so that no conceivable reason
can be given for either fate, save that upon the destiny of any single one may hang that of
a hundred others just like it. But whatever be the standard fixed, it is equally for the interest
of all concerned that it be enforced without flinching.

Nor is there the slightest foundation for the supposed editorial prejudice against new or obscure
contributors. On the contrary, every editor is always hungering and thirsting after novelties.
To take the lead in bringing forward a new genius is as fascinating a privilege as that of
the physician who boasted to Sir Henry Halford of having been the first man to discover the
Asiatic cholera and to communicate it to the public. It is only stern necessity which compels
the magazine to fall back so constantly on the regular old staff of contributors, whose average
product has been gauged already; just as every country-lyceum attempts annually to arrange
an entirely new list of lecturers, and ends with no bolder experiment than to substitute Chapin
and Beecher in place of last year's Beecher and Chapin.

Of course no editor is infallible, and the best magazine contains an occasional poor article.
Do not blame the unfortunate conductor. He knows it as well as you do,--after the deed is done.
The newspapers kindly pass it over, still preparing their accustomed opiate of sweet praises,
so much for each contributor, so much for the magazine collectively,--like a hostess with her
tea-making, a spoonful for each person and one for the pot. But I can tell you that there is
an official person who meditates and groans, meanwhile, in the night-watches, to think that
in some atrocious moment of good-nature or sleepiness he left the door open and let that ungainly
intruder in. Do you expect him to acknowledge the blunder, when you tax him with it? Never,--he
feels it too keenly. He rather stands up stoutly for the surpassing merits of the misshapen
thing, as a mother for her deformed child; and as the mother is nevertheless inwardly imploring
that there may never be such another born to her, so be sure that it is not by reminding the
editor of this calamity that you can allure him into risking a repetition of it.

An editor thus shows himself to be but human; and it is well enough to remember this fact,
when you approach him. He is not a gloomy despot, no Nemesis or Rhadamanthus, but a bland and
virtuous man, exceedingly anxious to secure plenty of good subscribers and contributors, and
very ready to perform any acts of kindness not inconsistent with this grand design. Draw near
him, therefore, with soft approaches and mild persuasions. Do not treat him like an enemy,
and insist on reading your whole manuscript aloud to him, with appropriate gestures. His time
has some value, if yours has not; and he has therefore educated his eye till it has become
microscopic, like a naturalist's, and can classify nine out of ten specimens by one glance
at a scale or a feather. Fancy an ambitious echinoderm claiming a private interview with Agassiz,
to demonstrate by verbal arguments that he is a mollusk! Besides, do you expect to administer
the thing orally to each of the two hundred thousand, more or less, who turn the leaves of
the "Atlantic"? You are writing for the average eye, and must submit to its verdict. "Do not
trouble yourself about the light on your statue; it is the light of the public square which
must test its value."

Do not despise any honest propitiation, however small, in dealing with your editor. Look to
the physical aspect of your manuscript, and prepare your page so neatly that it shall allure
instead of repelling. Use good pens, black ink, nice white paper and plenty of it. Do not emulate
"paper-sparing Pope," whose chaotic manuscript of the "Iliad," written chiefly on the backs
of old letters, still remains in the British Museum. If your document be slovenly, the presumption
is that its literary execution is the same, Pope to the contrary notwithstanding. An editor's
eye becomes carnal, and is easily attracted by a comely outside. If you really wish to obtain
his good-will for your production, do not first tax his time for deciphering it, any more than
in visiting a millionnaire to solicit a loan you would begin by asking him to pay for the hire
of the carriage which takes you to his door.

On the same principle, send your composition in such a shape that it shall not need the slightest
literary revision before printing. Many a bright production dies discarded which might have
been made thoroughly presentable by a single day's labor of a competent scholar, in shaping,
smoothing, dovetailing, and retrenching. The revision seems so slight an affair that the aspirant
cannot conceive why there should be so much fuss about it.

  "The piece, you think, is incorrect; why, take it;
  I'm all submission; what you'd have it, make it."

But to discharge that friendly office no universal genius is salaried; and for intellect in
the rough there is no market.

Rules for style, as for manners, must be chiefly negative: a positively good style indicates
certain natural powers in the individual, but an unexceptionable style is merely a matter of
culture and good models. Dr. Channing established in New England a standard of style which
really attained almost the perfection of the pure and the colorless, and the disciplinary value
of such a literary influence, in a raw and crude nation, has been very great; but the defect
of this standard is that it ends in utterly renouncing all the great traditions of literature,
and ignoring the magnificent mystery of words. Human language may be polite and powerless in
itself, uplifted with difficulty into expression by the high thoughts it utters, or it may
in itself become so saturated with warm life and delicious association that every sentence
shall palpitate and thrill with the mere fascination of the syllables. The statue is not more
surely included in the block of marble than is all conceivable splendor of utterance in "Worcester's
Unabridged." And as Ruskin says of painting that it is in the perfection and precision of the
instantaneous line that the claim to immortality is made, so it is easy to see that a phrase
may outweigh a library. Keats heads the catalogue of things real with "sun, moon, and passages
of Shakspeare"; and Keats himself has left behind him winged wonders of expression which are
not surpassed by Shakspeare, or by any one else who ever dared touch the English tongue. There
may be phrases which shall be palaces to dwell in, treasure-houses to explore; a single word
may be a window from which one may perceive all the kingdoms of the earth and the glory of
them. Oftentimes a word shall speak what accumulated volumes have labored in vain to utter:
there may be years of crowded passion in a word, and half a life in a sentence.

Such being the majesty of the art you seek to practise, you can at least take time and deliberation
before dishonoring it. Disabuse yourself especially of the belief that any grace or flow of
style can come from writing rapidly. Haste can make you slipshod, but it can never make you
graceful. With what dismay one reads of the wonderful fellows in fashionable novels, who can
easily dash off a brilliant essay in a single night! When I think how slowly my poor thoughts
come in, how tardily they connect themselves, what a delicious prolonged perplexity it is to
cut and contrive a decent clothing of words for them, as a little girl does for her doll,--nay,
how many new outfits a single sentence sometimes costs before it is presentable, till it seems
at last, like our army on the Potomac, as if it never could be thoroughly clothed,--I certainly
should never dare to venture into print, but for the confirmed suspicion that the greatest
writers have done even so. I can hardly believe that there is any autograph in the world so
precious or instructive as that scrap of paper, still preserved at Ferrara, on which Ariosto
wrote in sixteen different revisions one of his most famous stanzas. Do you know, my dear neophyte,
how Balzac used to compose? As a specimen of the labor that sometimes goes to make an effective
style, the process is worth recording. When Balzac had a new work in view, he first spent weeks
in studying from real life for it, haunting the streets of Paris by day and night, note-book
in hand. His materials gained, he shut himself up till the book was written, perhaps two months,
absolutely excluding everybody but his publisher. He emerged pale and thin, with the complete
manuscript in his hand,--not only written, but almost rewritten, so thoroughly was the original
copy altered, interlined, and rearranged. This strange production, almost illegible, was sent
to the unfortunate printers; with infinite difficulty a proof-sheet was obtained, which, being
sent to the author, was presently returned in almost as hopeless a chaos of corrections as
the manuscript first submitted. Whole sentences were erased, others transposed, everything
modified. A second and a third followed, alike torn to pieces by the ravenous pen of Balzac.
The despairing printers labored by turns, only the picked men of the office being equal to
the task, and they relieving each other at hourly intervals, as beyond that time no one could
endure the fatigue. At last, by the fourth proof-sheet, the author too was wearied out, though
not contented. "I work ten hours out of the twenty-four," said he, "over the elaboration of
my unhappy style, and I am never satisfied, myself, when all is done."

Do not complain that this scrupulousness is probably wasted, after all, and that nobody knows.
The public knows. People criticize higher than they attain. When the Athenian audience hissed
a public speaker for a mispronunciation, it did not follow that any one of the malcontents
could pronounce as well as the orator. In our own lyceum-audiences there may not be a man who
does not yield to his own private eccentricities of dialect, but see if they do not appreciate
elegant English from Phillips or Everett! Men talk of writing down to the public taste who
have never yet written up to that standard. "There never yet was a good tongue," said old Fuller,
"that wanted ears to hear it." If one were expecting to be judged by a few scholars only, one
might hope somehow to cajole them; but it is this vast, unimpassioned, unconscious tribunal,
this average judgment of intelligent minds, which is truly formidable,--something more undying
than senates and more omnipotent than courts, something which rapidly cancels all transitory
reputations, and at last becomes the organ of eternal justice and infallibly awards posthumous
fame.

The first demand made by the public upon every composition is, of course, that it should be
attractive. In addressing a miscellaneous audience, whether through eye or ear, it is certain
that no man living has a right to be tedious. Every editor is therefore compelled to insist
that his contributors should make themselves agreeable, whatever else they may do. To be agreeable,
it is not necessary to be amusing; an essay may be thoroughly delightful without a single witticism,
while a monotone of jokes soon grows tedious. Charge your style with life, and the public will
not ask for conundrums. But the profounder your discourse, the greater must necessarily be
the effort to refresh and diversify. I have observed, in addressing audiences of children in
schools and elsewhere, that there is no fact so grave, no thought so abstract, but you can
make it very interesting to the small people, if you will only put in plenty of detail and
illustration; and I have not observed that in this respect grown men are so very different.
If, therefore, in writing, you find it your mission to be abstruse, fight to render your statement
clear and attractive, as if your life depended on it: your literary life does depend on it,
and, if you fail, relapses into a dead language, and becomes, like that of Coleridge, only
a Biographia Literaria. Labor, therefore, not in thought alone, but in utterance; clothe and
reclothe your grand conception twenty times, until you find some phrase that with its grandeur
shall be lucid also. It is this unwearied literary patience that has enabled Emerson not merely
to introduce, but even to popularize, thoughts of such a quality as never reached the popular
mind before. And when such a writer, thus laborious to do his utmost for his disciples, becomes
after all incomprehensible, we can try to believe that it is only that inevitable obscurity
of vast thought which Coleridge said was a compliment to the reader.

In learning to write availably, a newspaper-office is a capital preparatory school. Nothing
is so good to teach the use of materials, and to compel to pungency of style. Being always
at close quarters with his readers, a journalist must shorten and sharpen his sentences, or
he is doomed. Yet this mental alertness is bought at a severe price; such living from hand
to mouth cheapens the whole mode of intellectual existence, and it would seem that no successful
journalist could ever get the newspaper out of his blood, or achieve any high literary success.

