On September 16 the restored tyrants of Rimini, Pesaro, Castello, Perugia, Camerino, Urbino,
and Sinigaglia entered into and signed at Perugia a league, whose chiefs were Bartolomeo d'Alviano
and Gianpaolo Baglioni, for their common protection.

Florence was invited to join the allies. Intimidated, however, by France, not only did the
Signory refuse to be included, but--in her usual manner--actually went so far as to advise
Cesare Borgia of that refusal and to offer him her services and help.

On the same date the Sacred College assembled in Rome, at the Mass of the Holy Spirit, to beseech
the grace of inspiration in the election of the new Pontiff. The part usually played by the
divine afflatus in these matters was so fully understood and appreciated that the Venetian
ambassador received instructions from the Republic(1) to order the Venetian cardinals to vote
for Giuliano della Rovere, whilst the King of France sent a letter--in his own hand--to the
Sacred College desiring it to elect his friend the Cardinal d'Amboise, and Spain, at the same
time, sought to influence the election of Carvajal.

  1  See Sanuto's Diarrii.

The chances of the last-named do not appear ever to have amounted to very much. The three best
supported candidates were della Rovere, d'Amboise, and Ascanio Sforza--who made his reappearance
in Rome, released from his French prison at last, in time to attend this Conclave.

None of these three factions was strong enough to ensure the election of its own candidate,
but any two were strong enough to prevent the election of the candidate of the third. Wherefore
it happened that, as a result of so much jealousy and competition, recourse was had to temporizing
by electing the oldest and feeblest cardinal in the College. Thus there should presently be
another election, and meantime the candidates would improve the time by making their arrangements
and canvassing their supporters so as to control the votes of the College at that future Conclave.
Therefore Francesco Piccolomini, Cardinal of Siena (nephew of Pius II), a feeble octogenarian,
tormented by an ulcer, which, in conjunction with an incompetent physician, was to cut his
life even shorter than they hoped, was placed upon the throne of St. Peter, and assumed with
the Pontificate the name of Pius III.

The new Pope was entirely favourable to Cesare Borgia, and confirmed him in all his offices,
signifying his displeasure to Venice at her attempt upon the Romagna, and issuing briefs to
the allied tyrants commanding them to desist from their opposition to the will of the Holy See.

Cesare returned to Rome, still weak on his legs and ghastly to behold, and on October 6 he
received in St. Peter's his confirmation as Captain-General and Gonfalonier of the Church.

The Venetians had meanwhile been checked by a letter from Louis from lending further assistance
to the allies. The latter, however, continued their hostilities in spite of that. They had
captured Sinigaglia, and now they made an attempt on Fano and Fermo, but were repulsed in both
places by Cesare's loyal subjects. At the same time the Ordelaffi--who in the old days had
been deposed from the Tyranny of Forli to make room for the Riarii--deemed the opportunity
a good one to attempt to regain their lordship; but their attempt, too, was frustrated.

Cesare sat impotent in Rome, no doubt vexed by his own inaction. He cannot have lacked the
will to go to the Romagna to support the subjects who showed him such loyalty; but he lacked
the means. Owing to the French and Spanish dispute in Naples, his army had practically melted
away. The terms of his treaty with Louis compelled him to send the bulk of it to the camp at
Garigliano to support the French, who were in trouble. The force that Remolino had quartered
at Orvieto to await the duke's orders he had been unable to retain there. Growing uneasy at
their position, and finding it impossible either to advance or to retreat, being threatened
on the one side by the Baglioni and on the other by the Orsini, these troops had steadily deserted;
whilst most of Cesare's Spanish captains and their followers had gone to the aid of their compatriots
under Gonzalo de Cordoba in response to that captain's summons of every Spaniard in the peninsula.

Thus did it come about that Cesare had no force to afford his Romagna subjects. His commissioners
in the north did what was possible to repair the damage effected by the allies, and they sent
Dionigio di Naldo with six hundred of his foot, and, further, a condotta of two hundred horse,
against Rimini. This was captured by them in one day and almost without resistance, Pandolfaccio
flying for his life to Pesaro.

Next the allies, by attempting to avenge the rout they had suffered at Cesena, afforded the
ducal troops an opportunity of scoring another victory. They prepared a second attack against
Cesare's capital, and with an army of considerable strength they advanced to the very walls
of the stronghold, laying the aqueduct in ruins and dismantling what other buildings they found
in their way. But in Cesena the gallant Pedro Ramires lay in wait for them. Issuing to meet
them, he not only put them to flight and drove them for shelter into the fortress of Montebello,
but laid siege to them there and broke them utterly, with a loss, as was reputed, of some three
hundred men in slain alone.

The news of this came to cheer Valentinois, who, moreover, had now the Pope and France to depend
upon. Further, and in view of that same protection, the Orsini were already treating with him
for a reconciliation, despite the fact that the Orsini blood was scarce dry upon his hands.
But he had a resolute, sly, and desperate enemy in Venice, and on October 10 there arrived
in Rome Bartolomeo d'Alviano and Gianpaolo Baglioni, who repaired to the Venetian ambassador
and informed him that they were come in quest of the person of Valentinois, intending his death.

To achieve their ends they united themselves to the Orsini, who were now in arms in Rome, their
attempted reconciliation with Cesare having aborted. Valentinois's peril became imminent, and
from the Vatican he withdrew for shelter to the Castle of Sant' Angelo, going by way of the
underground passage built by his father.

Thence he summoned Michele da Corella, who was at Rocca Soriana with his foot, and Taddeo della
Volpe (a valiant captain and a great fighter, who had already lost an eye in Cesare's service)
and Baldassare Scipione, who were in the Neapolitan territory with their men-at-arms. He was
gathering his sinews for a spring, when suddenly the entire face of affairs was altered and
all plans were checked by the death of Pius III on October 18, after a reign of twenty-six days.

Once more there was an end to Cesare's credit. No man might say what the future held in store.
Giustiniani, indeed, wrote to his Government that Cesare was about to withdraw to France, and
that he had besought a safe-conduct of the Orsini--which report is as true as many another
communication from the same Venetian pen, ever ready to write what it hoped might be true;
and it is flatly contradicted by the better-informed Macchiavelli, who was writing at the same
time:

"The duke is in Sant' Angelo, and is more hopeful than ever of accomplishing great things,
presupposing a Pope according to the wishes of his friends."

But the Romagna was stirred once more to the turbulence from which it had scarcely settled.
Forli and Rimini were lost almost at once, the Ordelaffi succeeding in capturing the former
in this their second attempt, whilst Pandolfaccio once more sat in his palace at Rimini, having
cut his way to it through a sturdy resistance. Against Imola Bentivogli dispatched a force
of two thousand foot; but this was beaten off.

The authority of France appeared to have lost its weight, and in vain did Cardinal d'Amboise
thunder threats in the name of his friend King Louis, and send envoys to Florence, Venice,
Bologna, and Urbino, to complain of the injuries that were being done to the Duke of Valentinois.

CHAPTER III. JULIUS II

Giuliano della Rovere, Cardinal of S. Pietro in Vincoli, had much in his character that was
reminiscent of his terrible uncle, Sixtus IV. Like that uncle of his, he had many failings
highly unbecoming any Christian--laic or ecclesiastic--which no one has attempted to screen;
and, incidentally, he cultivated morality in his private life and observed his priestly vows
of chastity as little as did any other churchman of his day. For you may see him, through the
eyes of Paride de Grassi,(1) unable one Good Friday to remove his shoes for the adoration of
the cross in consequence of his foot's affliction--ex morbo gallico. But with one great and
splendid virtue was he endowed in the eyes of the enemies of the House of Borgia--contemporary,
and subsequent down to our times--a most profound, unchristian, and mordacious hatred of all
Borgias.

  1 Burchard's successor in the office of Master of Ceremonies.

Roderigo Borgia had defeated him in the Conclave of 1492, and for twelve years had kept him
out of the coveted pontificate. You have seen how he found expression for his furious jealousy
at his rival's success. You have seen him endeavouring to his utmost to accomplish the deposition
of the Borgia Pope, wielding to that end the lever of simony and seeking a fulcrum for it,
first in the King of France and later in Ferdinand and Isabella; but failing hopelessly in
both instances. You have seen him, when he realized the failure of an attempt which had made
Rome too dangerous for him and compelled him to remain in exile, suddenly veering round to
fawn and flatter and win the friendship of one whom his enmity could not touch.

This man who, as Julius II, was presently to succeed Pius III, has been accounted a shining
light of virtue amid the dark turpitude of the Church in the Renaissance. An ignis fatuus,
perhaps; a Jack-o'-lanthorn begotten of putrescence. Surely no more than that.

Dr. Jacob Burckhardt, in that able work of his to which reference already has been made, follows
the well-worn path of unrestrained invective against the Borgias, giving to the usual empty
assertions the place which should be assigned to evidence and argument. Like his predecessors
along that path, he causes Giuliano della Rovere to shine heroically by contrast--a foil to
throw into greater relief the blackness of Alexander.

Other writers in plenty have suggested this, but none has quite so plainly and resoundingly
thrown down the gauntlet, which we will make bold to lift.

That Dr. Burckhardt wrote in other than good faith is not to be imputed. It must therefore
follow that an entry in the Diarium of the Caerimoniarius under date of October 29, 1503, escaped
him utterly in the course of his researches. For the Diarium informs us that on that day, in
the Apostolic Palace, Giuliano della Rovere, Cardinal of S. Pietro in Vincoli, concluded the
terms of an agreement with the Duke of Valentinois and the latter's following of Spanish cardinals,
by which he undertook that, in consideration of his receiving the votes of these Spanish cardinals
and being elected Pope, he would confirm Cesare in his office of Gonfalonier and Captain-General,
and would preserve him in the dominion of the Romagna. And, in consideration of that undertaking,
the Spanish cardinals, on their side, promised to give him their suffrages.

Here are the precise words in which Burchard records the transaction:

