NOTE from AEWarren: I am not able to reproduce the themes ("Motivs" or "Motive")

BLUEBEARD

A Musical Fantasy

by Kate Douglas Wiggin

Dedication: To my friend Walter Damrosch Master of the art form so irreverently treated in
these pages. Kate Douglas Wiggin

PREFACE

More than a dozen years ago musical scholars and critics began to illuminate the musical darkness
of New York with lecture-recitals explanatory of the more abstruse German operas. Previous
to this era no one had ever thought, for instance, of unfolding the story, or the "Leit motive"
(if there happened to be any!), in "The Bohemian Girl," "Maritana," or "Martha." These and
many other delightful but thoroughly third-class works unfolded themselves as they went along,
to the entire satisfaction of a public so unbelievably care-free, happy, thoughtless, childlike,
uninstructed, that it hardly seems as if they could have been our ancestors.

Wagner changed all this at a single blow. One could no longer leave one's brains with one's
hat in the coat-room when the "Nibelungen Ring"appeared! Learned critics, pitifully comprehending
the fathomless ignorance of the people, began to give lectures on the "Ring" to large audiences,
mostly of ladies, through whom in course of time a certain amount of information percolated
and reached the husbands--the somewhat circuitous, but only possible method by which aesthetic
knowledge can be conveyed to the American male. Women are hopeless idealists! It is not enough
for them that their brothers or husbands should pay for the seats at the opera and accompany
them there, clad in irreproachable evening dress. Not at all! They wish them to sit erect,
keep awake, and look intelligent, and it is but just to say that many of them succeed in doing
so. The art-form known as the lecture-recital, then, has succeeded in forcibly educating so
large a section of the public that immense audiences gather at the Metropolitan Opera House,
one-half of them at least, in a state of such chastened susceptibility and erudition that the
Tetralogy of Wagner has no terrors for them.

The next move was in behalf of the more cryptic, symbolic, hectic, toxic works of the ultra-modern
French school, which have been so brilliantly illuminated by their protagonists that thousands
of women in the larger cities recognize a master's voice whenever one of his themes is played
upon the Victrola.

I shall offer my practically priceless manuscript of "Bluebeard" for production in French at
the Metropolitan, and in English at the Century Opera House; meantime Mr. Hammerstein is so
impressed with its originality, audacity, and tragic power that he is laying the corner-stone
for a magnificent new building and will open and close it with "Bluebeard" in German, if no
unforeseen legal complications should prevent.

It is in preparation for all this activity that I issue this brief but epoch-making little work.

      KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN.  NEW YORK, February, 1914.

CAST OF CHARACTERS

Bluebeard (baritone). Man of enormous wealth but dubious morals. Pioneer of the trial-marriage
idea.

Fatima (singingactress). Innocent, romantic, frivolous blonde type, rich in personal charm,
weak in logic and a poor judge of men.

Sister Anne (soprano). Impulsive, magnetic, ambitious, highly marriageable brunette.

The Mother (contralto). Impecunious, mercenary widow, determined to settle her daughters in
life without any regard to eugenic principles.

Mustapha (robusttenor). Elder brother; the one who has the fat acting part since he rescues
Fatima and slays Bluebeard.

Other Brothers (falsettos). Of no account save to show the size of the family  to which Fatima
belongs and her mother's sound convictions on the subject of race suicide. The other brothers
have nothing to do except to slay sheep (by accident) when attempting to destroy Bluebeard's
tiger and elephant.

The  Tiger (throatybaritone). Comic character.

The  Elephant & The Dragon (basses). Introduced simply as corroborative
   detail.

Chorus of Bluebeard's Vassals (baritonesandbasses).

Chorus of Headless Wives (sopranosandcontraltos).

Chorus of Sheep (tenors).

Bluebeard

(Lecture-Recital)

WE are proceeding on the supposition that this music-drama of "Bluebeard" is a posthumous work
of Richard Wagner. It is said (our authority being a late number of the musical and Court Journal,
DieFliegendeBla'tter) that a housemaid, while tidying one of the rooms in a villa formerly
occupied by the Wagner family in summer, perceived an enormous halo shining persistently over
a certain bedstead standing against the wall, the said halo absolutely refusing to remove itself
when attacked with a feather- duster. The housemaid thought at first that it was simply an
effect of the sunlight, but observed subsequently that the halo was just as large, fine yellow,
opaque, and circular on dark days as on bright ones; consequently, on a certain morning when
it was so huge and glaring as to be positively offensive to the eye, inasmuch as it did not
hang over a Holy Family, but over an ordinary and somewhat uncomfortable article of furniture,
she adopted the courageous feminine expedient of looking underneath the bed, where she found
this priceless legacy of the master reposing in a hat-box in which it had lain for nearly half
a century, unsuspected, undisturbed.

If this incident is true it is exquisitely pretty and touching; if not, it is highly absurd
and ridiculous, but the same may be said of many hypothetical historical incidents. At all
events, the financial arrangements which followed upon the discovery of the MS. and the price
demanded for it by the Wagnerian housemaid convinces me absolutely of its authenticity.

To me it is not strange that Wagner should choose to immortalize the story of Bluebeard, for
the interesting and inspiring myth has been used in all ages and in all countries. It differs
slightly in the various versions. In some, the shade of the villain's beard is robin's-egg
and in others indigo; in some the fatal key is blood-stained instead of broken; while in the
matter of wives the myth varies according to the customs of the locality where it appears:
In monogamous countries the number of ladies slain is generally six, but in bigamous and polygamous
countries the interesting victims mount (they were always hung high, you remember) to the number
of one hundred and seventeen.

I ought, perhaps, to confess to you that there are critics who still deny the authenticity
of this work, although they concede that it is full of Wagner's spirit and influence and may
have been produced by some ardent follower or pupil; one steeped to the eyebrows in mythologic
lore and capable of hurling titanic tonal eccentricities against the uncomprehending ear-drum
of the dull and ignorant herd. There are those, too, who think that some disciple of Richard
II.,--Strauss, not Wagner,--had a hand in the orchestration, simply because his "Sinfonia Domestica"
occupies itself with the same sweet history of the inglenook which is the basis of the Bluebeard
libretto. Strauss's symphony is worked out along more tranquil lines, to be sure, but it is
only the history of a single day of married life and a day arbitrarily chosen by the composer.
It is conceivable that there may have been other days!

The incredulous ones urge that Wagner would never have been drawn to the Bluebeard myth as
a foundation for a libretto; but for myself I regard its selection as a probable reaction,
violent, no doubt, from the composition of Parsifal. In Parsifal the central themes and the
unavoidable conclusion are derived from outgrown beliefs that have long since ceased to influence
the heart of mankind. Parsifal is medieval, mystic, rapt, devout. Its ideals are those of celibacy
and asceticism, the products of an age whose theories and practices as regards sex-relationships
can have no echo in modern civilization. What more natural than that Wagner should fling himself,
for mental and emotional relief, into a story throbbing with human love and marriage? Neither
would some calm domestic drama serve, some story of the nursery or hearth-stone, dealing with
the relations of one fond husband and father, one doting mother and child. As a contrast to
the asceticism and celibacy of Parsifal we have in Bluebeard rampant and tropical polygamy;
fervent, untiring connubialism. The ardent and susceptible Solomon might have been a more dignified
hero, one would think; but, although he could furnish wives enough to properly fill the stage,
his domestic life was not nearly as varied, as thrilling, and as upset as Bluebeard's, whose
story makes a well-nigh invincible appeal to manager, artists, and subscribers alike; and,
for that matter, is as likely to be popular with box-holders as with the gallery-gods.

This master work enunciates the world law that Woman (symbolized by Fatima, Seventh Wife, singing
actress) is determined to marry once at any cost; and that Man (symbolized by Bluebeard, baritone)
is determined, if he marries at all, to marry as thoroughly and as often as possible. It holds
up to scorn the marriage of ambition and convenience on the one hand, but on the other, pursues
with wrath and vengeance the law-breaker, the indiscriminate love-winner, the wife-collector
and wife-slayer; and, although women still have a strange and persistent fancy for marriage,
they might sometimes avoid it if they realized that a violent death were the price.

We must first study the musical construction of the overture with which the music-drama opens,
as it is well known that Wagner in his Preludes prepares the spectator's mind for the impressions
that are to follow. Several of the leading motives appear in this Vorspiel and must be appreciated
to be understood. First we have the "Blaubartmotiv" (Bluebeard Motive). This is a theme whose
giant march gives us in rhythmic thunders the terrible power of the hero.

["Blaubartmotiv"]

The "Blaubartmotiv" should be constantly kept in mind, as it is a clue to much of the later
action, being introduced whenever Bluebeard budges an inch from his doorstep. We do not hear
in it the majestic grandeur of the Wotan or Walsungen motifs, and why? Simply because it was
not intended to illustrate godlike power, but bruteforce.

Now if this were all, we had no more to say; but listen!

[Immer-wieder-heirathen Motiv]

What does this portend--this entrance of another theme, written for the treble clef, played
with the right hand, but mysteriously interwoven with the bass? What but that Bluebeard is
not to be the sole personage in this music-drama; and we judge the stranger to be a female
on account of the overwhelming circumstantial evidence just given.

Bluebeard, when first introduced--you remember the movement, one of somber grandeur leading
upward to vague desire was alone and lonely. Certainly the first, probably the second. If his
mood were that of settled despair, typical of a widower determined never to marry again no
matter what the provocation, the last note of the phrase would have been projected downward;
but, as you must have perceived, the melody terminates in a tone of something like hope. There
is no assurance in it--do not misunderstand me; there is no particular lady projected in the
musical text--that would have been indelicate, for we do not know at the moment precisely the
date when Bluebeard hung up his last wife; but there is a groping discontent. At the opening
of the drama we have not been informed whether Bluebeard has ever been married at all or only
a few times, but we feel that he craves companionship, and we know when we hear this "Immer-wieder-heirathenMotiv"
(Always About to Marry Again Motive) that he secures it. The sex created expressly to furnish
companionship will go on doing so, even if it has to be hung up in the process.

Look again at the second theme, the "Immer-wieder-heirathenMotiv" (Always About to Marry Again
Motive). Do you note a mysterious reflection of the first theme in it? Certainly; it would
be evident even to a chattering opera-party of the highest social circles. But why is this,
asks the sordid American business man, who goes to the music-drama absolutely unfitted in mind
and body to solve its great psychological questions. Not because Wagner could not have evolved
a dozen Leit-Motive for every measure, but for a more exquisitely refined and subtle reason.
The wife is often found to be more or less a reflection of her husband, especially in Germany,
therefore an entirely new and original motive would have been out of place. It is this extraordinary
insight into the human mind which brings us to the feet of the master in reverential awe; and
it detracts nothing from his fame that his themes descriptive of average femininity would have
been quite different had he written them for the women of this epoch. The world moves rapidly.
This motive slips with a series of imperceptible musical glides into the "Siebente-FrauMotiv"
(Seventh Wife Motive): Bluebeard enters well in advance; Fatima, contrapuntally obedient, coming
in a little behind.

[Siebente-Frau Motiv]

This Fatima, or Seventh Wife Motive seems to be written in a curiously low key if we conceive
it to be the index to the character of a soprano heroine; but let us look further. What are
the two principal personages in the music-drama to be to each other?

If enemies, the phrase would have been written thus: [separation of 5 octaves]

If acquaintances, thus: [separation of 3 octaves]

If friends, thus: [separation of 1 octave]

If lovers, thus: [separation of less than one octave]

the ardent and tropical treble note leaving its own proper sphere and nestling cozily down
in the bass staff. But the hero and heroine of the music-drama were husband and wife; therefore
the phrases are intertwined sufficiently for propriety, but not too closely for pleasure. We
might also say, considering Fatima's probable fate, that we cannot wonder that she sings in
a low key; and the exceedingly involved contrapuntal complications in which the motive terminates
hint perhaps at Wagner's opinion on the momentous question,"Is marriage a failure?"

Next we have the "BruderHochzuRossMotiv" (Brothers on a High Horse Motive), announced by sparkling
Tetrazzini chromatics, always at sixes and sevens, darting and dashing, centaur-like, in semi-demi-quavers,
like horses' manes and tails mounting skyward, whinnyingly. Fatima's brothers have come to
make a wedding visit to their beloved sister, whom they believe happily united to a nobleman
of high degree. They have also come because in a music-drama action is demanded and choruses
are desirable; being noisy, impressive, popular, comparatively cheap, and the participants
less temperamental in character than soloists, therefore more easily managed.

[Bruder Hoch zu Ross Motiv] (with devil-may-care speed.)

If you miss some of the wonderful sinuosity, some of the musical curvatures of the similar
"Horses in a Hurry Motive" in "Die Walku're," I can only suggest that the Brothers' mounts
were not as the fleet steeds of the gods. Fatima's people were living in genteel poverty, and
the family horses were doubtless some-what emaciated; therefore the musical realist could not
in honesty depict them other than in an angular rather than curved movement.

The overture next takes up the arrival of the Brothers, who, as the music plainly assures us,
dismount, feed their steeds, perform a simple toilette at the stable-yard pump, and then come
suddenly upon Bluebeard, whose frenzy for disposing of fresh wives is as sudden and as all-absorbing
as his desire to annex them. At the moment of the Brothers' opportune arrival Bluebeard is
on the point of severing Fatima's relations with the world. The Brothers advance. A cloud of
dust envelops them; they rush forward, dealing telling blows, and the frantic bleating of fleeing
sheep is heard in a wild double-tonguing of the united brass instruments, very effective, especially
in the open air, though a little trying to nervous ladies in the front rows of an opera-house.
This is the celebrated "KilkennischeKatzenMotiv" (Motive of Mortal Combat). It is a syncopated
movement, and when given at the piano, is to be played furiously, first with one hand and then
with the other, till the performer is quite weary.

[Kilkennische Katzen Motiv] (ad infinitum, until one is deceased)

We find all through these measures most peculiar phrases, introduced by half-formed musical
rhythms, which are a presentiment of the mental unrest and nervous prostration of Fatima, who
does not know whether Bluebeard will kill the Brothers or the Brothers will kill Bluebeard.
She has never been an opera-goer and does not realize that there are inexorable laws in these
matters and that the villain always dies; that he agrees in his contract to die, no matter
how healthy he may be, no matter how much he dislikes it nor how slight the provocation. However,
this scene is made notable by the famous "Suspense Motive," one hundred and seven-teen bars
of doubt given by the big brasses and contra-bassoons.

There is much in this sort of programme music that is not easily intelligible to a young man
who, having purchased an admission ticket, is wandering from back to back of one opera-box
after another; but when fully comprehended, these special phrases are replete with emotion
and insight. Several motives are so dexterously woven into one gush of melody that they cannot
be disentangled by any ordinary method, and have to be wrenched apart by the enthusiast, who
employs, when milder means fail, a sort of intellectual dynamite to extricate the meaning from
the score. With the aid of this lecture, which is better than an ear-trumpet and a magnifying-glass,
we can, however, trace a "SchwertMotiv" (Sword Motive), showing the weapons used in the combat;
the "Glu'ckseligkeit Motiv" (Felicity Motive), well named, for we must remember that Fatima
is witnessing the duel from the castle window, her heart beating high at the prospect of widowhood;
and, toward the end, the famous "AusgespieltMotiv" (Motive of Spent Strength and Spilled Blood).

[Glu'ckseligkeit Motiv]

[Ausgespielt Motiv]

The "AusgespieltMotiv" is written in four flats, but as a matter of fact only one person is
flat, viz.: Blue-beard, who has just been slain by Mustapha. The other three flats must refer
to the sheep accidentally hit by the younger brothers, who aim for Bluebeard, but miss him,
being indifferent marksmen.

Why does the union of these motive, "BruderHochzuRoss" (Brothers on a High Horse), "KilkennischeKatzen"
(Mortal Combat), "Schwert" (Sword), "Glu'ckseligkeit" (Felicity of Fatima), and "Ausgespielt"
(Spent Strength and Spilled Blood), when blended in one majestically discordant whole, produce
upon us a feeling of profound grief mingled with hysterical mirth?

[Ensemble Motiv Blaubart-Schwert-Glu'ckseligkeit-Leichen]

And why do the measures grow more and more sad as they melt into the touching "BlutaufdemMondMotiv"
(Blood-on-the-Moon Motive)?

[Blut auf dem Mond Motiv] (slowly and with infinite pathos)

Simply because in a mortal combat somebody is invariably wounded and sometimes killed. Wagner
sang of human life as it is, not as it might, could, would, or should be. From the "BlutaufdemMondMotiv"
(Blood-on-the-Moon Motive) we glide at once into a dirge, the "Leichen," or Corpse, Motive,
one of those superb funeral marches with which we are familiar in the other music-dramas of
Wagner; for the master, though not an Irishman, is never so happy as on these funeral occasions.

[Leichen Motiv]

If any brainless and bigoted box-holder should ask why the "Blaubart Motiv" is repeated in
this funeral march, I ask him in return how he expects otherwise to know who is killed? Will
he take the trouble to reflect that these are the motives of the Vorspiel, and that the curtain
has not yet risen on the music-drama?

But why, he asks, do we hear an undercurrent of mirth pulsating joyously through the prevailing
sadness of this "LeichenMotiv," or funeral march? Simply because we cannot be expected to feel
the same unmixed grief at the death of a wife-murderer as at the death of a wife-preserver!
Ah, where shall we find again so subtle a reading of the throbbing heart of humanity!

The "SchwertMotiv" mingles again with the haunting strains of the half-sad, half-glad "LeichenMotiv,"
until the Vorspiel ends abruptly with a single note of ineffable meaning, thus:

[Tod und Ho'lle Motiv] (off the keyboard to the left)

This is very interesting to the student, and means much, if it means any-thing. The sword of
the elder brother, Mustapha, has gone through Bluebeard, if not the swords of the other Brothers.
This, you say, might not have been necessarily fatal, since those hardy ruffians of a bygone
age were proof against many a stab; but in this case the sword of the heroic Mustapha was accompanied
by the killing "Schwert Motiv," consequently the villain is dead.

But what has become of him? We have the one clue only, which will be known by all students
in future as the "TodundHo'lle Motiv," just given above: Bluebeard has gone where we will not
follow him unless we are obliged. Is this asserting too much? Alas, it is only too evident.
If it had been Wagner's intention to refer to the glorious immortality of a godlike hero, we
should have had the exquisite strains of a heavenly harp, thus: 

[rising arpeggios]

or the whir of angels' wings, thus:

[trills off the right-hand end of the keyboard]

And a final significant note, thus:

[a good 1 « inches above the treble staff] (Stretch the keyboard a little if necessary and
play a half, if there is not room for a whole note.)

whose piercing sweetness and dizzy altitude would have symbolized Heaven, or at least Walhalla.

Alas, it is all too plain. We have this:

[1 inch below the bass staff]

enough in itself to show his whereabouts; and as if that were not enough, this:

[VerdammungsMotiv] (Allegro frantico.) [2 dissonances, « and 1 inches below the bass staff]

to show that he is uncomfortable!

It will be interesting for the student to note the difference between the "VerdammungsMotiv"
of "Bluebeard" and the" Damnation Motive" of Wagner's earlier opera, "Tannha'user."

[Damnation Motive]

Both are strong, tragic, and powerful, but the sins of Bluebeard are gross and those of Tannha'user
subtle; consequently the peril of each is foreshadowed in its own way, it being very clear
that Bluebeard's fate is final, while Tannha'user, as we know, is saved by the spiritual influence
of Elizabeth, a very different lady indeed from the frivolous and mercenary Fatima.

The plot of this music-drama itself is made beautifully clear by this Vorspiel and lecture-recital,
so that even a mother and child at a matine'e can follow the tone-pictures without difficulty;
but the libretto, which is a remarkable specimen of Wagner's alliterative verse, only helps
the more to rivet attention and compel admiration. I have given you an idea of the brief overture,
and the opera itself opens with a somber recitative, descriptive or symbolic of the Dark Ages
of Juvenile Literature.

RECITATIVE

