The path to occult knowledge will be found, at the fitting moment, by every human being who
discerns in what is visible the presence of something invisible, or who even but dimly surmises
or divines it, and who, from his consciousness that powers of cognition are capable of development,
is driven to the feeling that what is hidden may be unveiled to him. One who is drawn to occult
science by such experiences of the soul will find opening up before him, not only the prospect
of finding the answers to certain questions which press upon him, but the further prospect
of overcoming everything which hampers and enfeebles his life. And in a certain higher sense
it implies a weakening of life, in fact a death of the soul, when a person is compelled to
turn away from, or to deny, the unseen. Indeed, under certain circumstances despair is the
result of a man’s losing all hope of having the invisible revealed to him. This death and despair,
in their manifold forms, are at the same time inner spiritual foes of occult science. They
make their appearance when a person’s inner force is dwindling away. In that case, if he is
to possess any vital force it must be supplied to him from without. He perceives the things,
beings, and events which approach his organs of sense, and analyzes them with his intellect.
They afford him pleasure and pain, and impel him to the actions of which he is capable. For
a while he may go on in this way: but at length he must reach a point at which he inwardly
dies. For that which may thus be extracted for man from the outer world, becomes exhausted.
This is not a statement arising from the personal experience of one individual, but something
resulting from an impartial survey of the whole of human life. That which secures life from
exhaustion lies in the unseen world, deep at the roots of things. If a person loses the power
of descending into those depths so that he cannot be perpetually drawing fresh vitality from
them, then in the end the outer world of things also ceases to yield him anything of a vivifying
nature.

It is by no means the case that only the individual and his personal weal and woe are concerned.
Through occult science man gains the conviction that from a higher standpoint the weal and
woe of the individual are intimately bound up with the weal and woe of the whole world. This
is a means by which man comes to see that he is inflicting an injury on the entire world and
every being within it, if he does not develop his own powers in the right way. If a man makes
his life desolate by losing touch with the unseen, he not only destroys in his inner self something,
the decay of which may eventually drive him to despair, but through his weakness he constitutes
a hindrance to the evolution of the whole world in which he lives.

Now man may delude himself. He may yield to the belief that there is nothing invisible, and
that that which is manifest to his senses and intellect contains everything which can possibly
exist. But such an illusion is only possible on the surface of consciousness and not in its
depths. Feeling and desire do not yield to this delusive belief. They will be perpetually craving,
in one way or another, for that which is invisible. And if this is withheld, they drive man
to doubt, to uncertainty about life, or even to despair. Occult science, by making manifest
what is unseen, is calculated to overcome all hopelessness, uncertainty, and despair,—everything,
in short, which weakens life and makes it unfit for its necessary service in the universe.

The beneficent effect of occult science is that it not only satisfies thirst for knowledge
but gives strength and stability to life. The source whence the occult scientist draws his
power for work and his confidence in life is inexhaustible. Any one who has once had recourse
to that fount will always, on revisiting it, go forth with renewed vigour.

There are people who will not hear anything about occult science, because they think they discern
something unhealthy in what has just been said. These people are quite right as regards the
surface and outer aspect of life. They do not desire that to be stunted, which life, in its
so-called reality, offers. They see weakness in man’s turning away from reality and seeking
his welfare in an unseen world which to them is synonymous with what is chimerical and visionary.
If as occult scientists we do not desire to fall into morbid dreaming and weakness, we must
admit that such objections are partially justified. For they are founded upon sound judgment,
which leads to a half truth instead of a whole truth merely because it does not penetrate to
the roots of things, but remains on the surface. If occult science were calculated to weaken
life and estrange man from true reality, such objections would certainly be strong enough to
cut the ground from under the feet of those who follow this spiritual line of life. But even
in regard to such opinions as these, occult science would not be taking the right course in
defending itself in the ordinary sense of the word. Even in this case it can only speak by
means of what it gives to those who really penetrate into its meaning, that is, by the real
force and vitality which it bestows. It does not weaken life, but strengthens it, because it
equips man not only with the forces of the manifest world but with those of the invisible world
of which the manifest is the effect. Thus it does not imply an impoverishment, but an enrichment,
of life. The true occult scientist does not stand aloof from the world, but is a lover of reality,
because he does not desire to enjoy the unseen in a remote dream-world, but finds his happiness
in bringing to the world ever fresh supplies of force from the invisible sources from whence
this very world is derived, and from which it must be continually fructified.

Some people find many obstacles when they enter upon the path of occult science. One of these
is expressed in the fact, that a person, attempting to take the first steps, is sometimes discouraged
because at the outset he is introduced to the details of the supersensible world, in order
that he may, with entire patience and devotion, become acquainted with them. A series of communications
is made to him concerning the invisible nature of man, about certain definite occurrences in
the kingdom of which death opens the portals, and regarding the evolutions of man, the earth,
and the entire solar system. What he expected was to enter the supersensible world easily,
at a bound. Now he is heard to say: “Everything which I am told to study is food for my mind,
but leaves my soul cold. I am seeking the deepening of my soul-life. I want to find myself
within. I am seeking something that will lift my soul into the sphere of the divine, leading
it to its true home; I do not want information about the human being and world-processes.”
People who talk in this way have no idea that by such feelings they are barring the door to
what they are really seeking. For it is just when, and only when, with a free and open mind,
in self-surrender and patience, they assimilate what they call “merely” food for the intellect,
that they will find that for which their souls are athirst. That road leads the soul to union
with the divine, which brings to the soul knowledge of the works of the divine. The uplifting
of the heart is the result of learning to know about the creations of the spirit.

On this account occult science must begin by imparting the information which throws light on
the realms of the spiritual world. So too, in this book, we shall begin with what can be unveiled
concerning unseen worlds through the methods of occult research. That which is mortal in man,
and that which is immortal, will be described in their connection with the world, of which
he is a member.

Then will follow a description of the methods by which man is able to develop those powers
of cognition latent within him, which will lead him into that world. As much will be said about
the methods as is at present possible in a work of this kind. It seems natural to think that
these methods should be dealt with first. For it seems as though the main point would be to
acquaint man with what may bring him, by means of his own powers, to the desired view of the
higher world. Many may say, “Of what use is it for me that others tell me what they know about
higher worlds? I wish to see them for myself.”

The fact of the matter is that for really fruitful experience of the mysteries of the unseen
world, previous knowledge of certain facts belonging to that world is absolutely necessary.
Why this is so, will be sufficiently brought out from what follows.

It is a mistake to think that the truths of occult science which are imparted by those qualified
to communicate them, before mention is made of the means of penetrating into the spiritual
world itself, can be understood and grasped only by means of the higher vision which results
from developing certain powers latent in man. This is not the case. For investigating and discovering
the mysteries of a supersensible world, that higher sight is essential. No one is able to discover
the facts of the unseen world without the clairvoyance which is synonymous with that higher
vision. When however, the facts have been discovered and imparted, every one who applies to
them the full range of his ordinary intellect and unprejudiced powers of judgment, will be
able to understand them and to rise to a high degree of conviction concerning them. One who
maintains that the mysteries are incomprehensible to him, does not do so because he is not
yet clairvoyant, but because he has not yet succeeded in bringing into activity those powers
of cognition which may be possessed by every one, even without clairvoyance.

A new method of putting forward these matters consists in so describing them, after they have
been clairvoyantly investigated, that they are quite accessible to the faculty of judgment.
If only people do not shut themselves off by prejudice, there is no obstacle to arriving at
a conviction, even without higher vision. It is true that many will find that the new method
of presentment, as given in this book, is far from corresponding to their customary ways of
forming an opinion. But any objection due to this will soon disappear if one takes the trouble
to follow out these customary methods to their final consequences.

When, by an extended application of ordinary thought, a certain number of the higher mysteries
have been assimilated and found intelligible by any one, then the right moment has come for
the methods of occult research to be applied to his individual personality:—these will give
him access to the unseen world.

Nor will any genuine scientist be able to find contradiction, in spirit and in truth, between
his science, which is built upon the facts of the sense-world, and the way in which occult
science carries on its researches. The scientist uses certain instruments and methods. He constructs
his instruments by working upon what “nature” gives him. Occult science also uses an instrument,
but in this case the instrument is man himself. And that instrument too must first be prepared
for that higher research. The faculties and powers given to man by nature at the outset without
his co-operation, must be transformed into higher ones. In this way man is able to make himself
into an instrument for the investigation of the unseen world.

CHAPTER II. THE NATURE OF MAN

