The antithesis between the two aspects of the character of these ancient deities is most pronounced
in the case of the other member of this most primitive Trinity, the Great Mother. She was the
great beneficent giver of life, but also the controller of life, which implies that she was
the death-dealer. But this evil aspect of her character developed only under the stress of
a peculiar dilemma in which she was placed. On a famous occasion in the very remote past the
great Giver of Life was summoned to rejuvenate the ageing king. The only elixir of life that
was known to the pharmacopœia of the times was human blood: but to obtain this life-blood the
Giver of Life was compelled to slaughter mankind. She thus became the destroyer of mankind
in her lioness avatar as Sekhet.

The earliest known pictorial representation of the dragon (Fig. 1) consists of the forepart
of the sun-god's falcon or eagle united with the hindpart of the mother-goddess's lioness.
The student of modern heraldry would not regard this as a dragon at all, but merely a gryphon
or griffin. A recent writer on heraldry has complained that, "in spite of frequent corrections,
this creature is persistently confused in the popular mind with the dragon, which is even more
purely imaginary."[176] But the investigator of the early history of these wonder-beasts is
compelled, even at the risk of incurring the herald's censure, to regard the gryphon as one
of the earliest known tentative efforts at dragon-making. But though the fish, the falcon or
eagle, and the composite eagle-lion monster are early known pictorial representations of the
dragon, good or bad, the serpent is probably more ancient still (Fig. 2).

The earliest form assumed by the power of evil was the serpent: but it is important to remember
that, as each of the primary deities can be a power of either good or evil, any of the animals
representing them can symbolize either aspect. Though Hathor in her cow manifestation is usually
benevolent and as a lioness a power of destruction, the cow may become a demon in certain cases
and the lioness a kindly creature. The falcon of Horus (or its representatives, eagle, hawk,
woodpecker, dove, redbreast, etc) may be either good or bad: so also the gazelle (antelope
or deer), the crocodile, the fish, or any of the menagerie of creatures that enter into the
composition of good or bad demons.

"The Nâgas are semi-divine serpents which very often assume human shapes and whose kings live
with their retinues in the utmost luxury in their magnificent abodes at the bottom of the sea
or in rivers or lakes. When leaving the Nâga world they are in constant danger of being grasped
and killed by the gigantic semi-divine birds, the Garudas, which also change themselves into
men" (de Visser, p. 7).

"The Nâgas are depicted in three forms: common snakes, guarding jewels; human beings with four
snakes in their necks; and winged sea-dragons, the upper part of the body human, but with a
horned, ox-like head, the lower part of the body that of a coiling-dragon. Here we find a link
between the snake of ancient India and the four-legged Chinese dragon" (p. 6), hidden in the
clouds, which the dragon himself emitted, like a modern battleship, for the purpose of rendering
himself invisible. In other words, the rain clouds were the dragon's breath. The fertilizing
rain was thus in fact the vital essence of the dragon, being both water and the breath of life.

"We find the Nâga king not only in the possession of numberless jewels and beautiful girls,
but also of mighty charms, bestowing supernatural vision and hearing. The palaces of the Nâga
kings are always described as extremely splendid, abounding with gold and silver and precious
stones, and the Nâga women, when appearing in human shape, were beautiful beyond description"
(p. 9).

De Visser records the story of an evil Nâga protecting a big tree that grew in a pond, who
failed to emit clouds and thunder when the tree was cut down, because he was neither despised
nor wounded: for his body became the support of the stūpa and the tree became a beam of the
stūpa (p. 16). This aspect of the Nâga as a tree-demon is rare in India, but common in China
and Japan. It seems to be identical with the Mediterranean conception of the pillar of wood
or stone, which is both a representative of the Great Mother and the chief support of a temple.[177]

In the magnificent city that king Yaçaḥketu saw, when he dived into the sea, "wishing trees
that granted every desire" were among the objects that met his vision. There were also palaces
of precious stones and gardens and tanks, and, of course, beautiful maidens (de Visser, p. 20).

In the Far Eastern stories it is interesting to note the antagonism of the dragon to the tiger,
when we recall that the lioness-form of Hathor was the prototype of the earliest malevolent dragon.

There are five sorts of dragons: serpent-dragons; lizard-dragons; fish-dragons; elephant-dragons;
and toad-dragons (de Visser, p. 23).

"According to de Groot, the blue colour is chosen in China because this is the colour of the
East, from where the rain must come; this quarter is represented by the Azure Dragon, the highest
in rank among all the dragons. We have seen, however, that the original sūtra already prescribed
to use the blue colour and to face the East.... Indra, the rain-god, is the patron of the East,
and Indra-colour is nila, dark blue or rather blue-black, the regular epithet of the rain clouds.
If the priest had not to face the East but the West, this would agree with the fact that the
Nâgas were said to live in the western quarter and that in India the West corresponds with
the blue colour. Facing the East, however, seems to point to an old rain ceremony in which
Indra was invoked to raise the blue-black clouds" (de Visser, pp. 30 and 31).

[175: Breasted, op. cit., p. 11.]

[176: G. W. Eve, "Decorative Heraldry," 1897, p. 35.]

[177: Arthur J. Evans, "Mycenæan Tree and Pillar Cult," pp. 88 et seq.]

The Dragon Myth.

The most important and fundamental legend in the whole history of mythology is the story of
the "Destruction of Mankind". "It was discovered, translated, and commented upon by Naville
("La Destruction des hommes par les Dieux," in the Transactions of the Society of Biblical
Archæology, vol. iv., pp. 1-19, reproducing Hay's copies made at the beginning of [the nineteenth]
century; and "L'Inscription de la Destruction des hommes dans le tombeau de Ramsés III," in
the Transactions, vol. viii., pp. 412-20); afterwards published anew by Herr von Bergmann (Hieroglyphische
Inscriften, pls. lxxv.-lxxxii., and pp. 55, 56); completely translated by Brugsch (Die neue
Weltordnung nach Vernichtung des sündigen Menschengeschlechts nach einer Altägyptischen Ueberlieferung,
1881); and partly translated by Lauth (Aus Ægyptens Vorzeit, pp. 70-81) and by Lefèbure ("Une
chapitre de la chronique solaire," in the Zeitschrift für Ægyptische Sprache, 1883, pp 32,
33)".[178]

Important commentaries upon this story have been published also by Brugsch and Gauthier.[179]

As the really important features of the story consist of the incoherent and contradictory details,
and it would take up too much space to reproduce the whole legend here, I must refer the reader
to Maspero's account of it (op. cit.), or to the versions given by Erman in his "Life in Ancient
Egypt" (p. 267, from which I quote) or Budge in "The Gods of the Egyptians," vol. i., p. 388.

Although the story as we know it was not written down until the time of Seti I (circa 1300
B.C.), it is very old and had been circulating as a popular legend for more than twenty centuries
before that time. The narrative itself tells its own story because it is composed of many contradictory
interpretations of the same incidents flung together in a highly confused and incoherent form.

The other legends to which I shall have constantly to refer are "The Saga of the Winged Disk,"
"The Feud between Horus and Set," "The Stealing of Re's Name by Isis," and a series of later
variants and confusions of these stories.[180]

The Egyptian legends cannot be fully appreciated unless they are in conjunction with those
of Babylonia and Assyria,[181] the mythology of Greece,[182] Persia,[183] India,[184] China,[185]
Indonesia,[186] and America.[187]

For it will be found that essentially the same stream of legends was flowing in all these countries,
and that the scribes and painters have caught and preserved certain definite phases of this
verbal currency. The legends which have thus been preserved are not to be regarded as having
been directly derived the one from the other but as collateral phases of a variety of waves
of story spreading out from one centre. Thus the comparison of the whole range of homologous
legends is peculiarly instructive and useful; because the gaps in the Egyptian series, for
example, can be filled in by necessary phases which are missing in Egypt itself, but are preserved
in Babylonia or Greece, Persia or India, China or Britain, or even Oceania and America.

The incidents in the Destruction of Mankind may be briefly summarized:

As Re grows old "the men who were begotten of his eye"[188] show signs of rebellion. Re calls
a council of the gods and they advise him to "shoot forth his Eye[189] that it may slay the
evil conspirators.... Let the goddess Hathor descend [from heaven] and slay the men on the
mountains [to which they had fled in fear]." As the goddess complied she remarked: "it will
be good for me when I subject mankind," and Re replied, "I shall subject them and slay them".
Hence the goddess received the additional name of Sekhmet from the word "to subject". The destructive
Sekhmet[190] avatar of Hathor is represented as a fierce lion-headed goddess of war wading
in blood. For the goddess set to work slaughtering mankind and the land was flooded with blood[191].
Re became alarmed and determined to save at least some remnant of mankind. For this purpose
he sent messengers to Elephantine to obtain a substance called d'd' in the Egyptian text, which
he gave to the god Sektet of Heliopolis to grind up in a mortar. When the slaves had crushed
barley to make beer the powdered d'd' was mixed with it so as to make it red like human blood.
Enough of this blood-coloured beer was made to fill 7000 jars. At nighttime this was poured
out upon the fields, so that when the goddess came to resume her task of destruction in the
morning she found the fields inundated and her face was mirrored in the fluid. She drank of
the fluid and became intoxicated so that she no longer recognized mankind.[192]

Thus Re saved a remnant of mankind from the bloodthirsty, terrible Hathor. But the god was
weary of life on earth and withdrew to heaven upon the back of the Divine Cow.

There can be no doubt as to the meaning of this legend, highly confused as it is. The king
who was responsible for introducing irrigation came to be himself identified with the life-giving
power of water. He was the river: his own vitality was the source of all fertility and prosperity.
Hence when he showed signs that his vital powers were failing it became a logical necessity
that he should be killed to safeguard the welfare of his country and people.[193]

The time came when a king, rich in power and the enjoyment of life, refused to comply with
this custom. When he realized that his virility was failing he consulted the Great Mother,
as the source and giver of life, to obtain an elixir which would rejuvenate him and obviate
the necessity of being killed. The only medicine in the pharmacopœia of those times that was
believed to be useful in minimizing danger to life was human blood. Wounds that gave rise to
severe hæmorrhage were known to produce unconsciousness and death. If the escape of the blood
of life could produce these results it was not altogether illogical to assume that the exhibition
of human blood could also add to the vitality of living men and so "turn back the years from
their old age," as the Pyramid Texts express it.

Thus the Great Mother, the giver of life to all mankind, was faced with the dilemma that, to
provide the king with the elixir to restore his youth, she had to slay mankind, to take the
life she herself had given to her own children. Thus she acquired an evil reputation which
was to stick to her throughout her career. She was not only the beneficent creator of all things
and the bestower of all blessings: but she was also a demon of destruction who did not hesitate
to slaughter even her own children.

In course of time the practice of human sacrifice was abandoned and substitutes were adopted
in place of the blood of mankind. Either the blood of cattle,[194] who by means of appropriate
ceremonies could be transformed into human beings (for the Great Mother herself was the Divine
Cow and her offspring cattle), was employed in its stead; or red ochre was used to colour a
liquid which was used ritually to replace the blood of sacrifice. When this phase of culture
was reached the goddess provided for the king an elixir of life consisting of beer stained
red by means of red ochre, so as to simulate human blood.

But such a mixture was doubly potent, for the barley from which the beer was made and the drink
itself was supposed to be imbued with the life-giving powers of Osiris, and the blood-colour
reinforced its therapeutic usefulness. The legend now begins to become involved and confused.
For the goddess is making the rejuvenator for the king, who in the meantime has died and become
deified as Osiris; and the beer, which is the vehicle of the life-giving powers of Osiris,
is now being used to rejuvenate his son and successor, the living king Horus, who in the version
that has come down to us is replaced by the sun-god Re.

It is Re who is king and is growing old: he asks Hathor, the Great Mother, to provide him with
the elixir of life. But comparison with some of the legends of other countries suggests that
Re has usurped the place previously occupied by Horus and originally by Osiris, who as the
real personification of the life-giving power of water is obviously the appropriate person
to be slain when his virility begins to fail. Dr. C. G. Seligman's account of the Dinka rain-maker
Lerpiu, which I have already quoted (p. 113) from Sir James Frazer's "Dying God," suggests
that the slain king or god was originally Osiris.

The introduction of Re into the story marks the beginning of the belief in the sky-world or
heaven. Hathor was originally nothing more than an amulet to enhance fertility and vitality.
Then she was personified as a woman and identified with a cow. But when the view developed
that the moon controlled the powers of life-giving in women and exercised a direct influence
upon their life-blood, the Great Mother was identified with the moon. But how was such a conception
to be brought into harmony with the view that she was also a cow? The human mind displays an
irresistible tendency to unify its experience and to bridge the gaps that necessarily exist
in its broken series of scraps of knowledge and ideas. No break is too great to be bridged
by this instinctive impulse to rationalize the products of diverse experience. Hence, early
man, having identified the Great Mother both with a cow and the moon, had no compunction in
making "the cow jump over the moon" to become the sky. The moon then became the "Eye" of the
sky and the sun necessarily became its other "Eye". But, as the sun was clearly the more important
"Eye," seeing that it determined the day and gave warmth and light for man's daily work, it
was the more important deity. Therefore Re, at first the Brother-Eye of Hathor, and afterwards
her husband, became the supreme sky-deity, and Hathor merely one of his Eyes.

When this stage of theological evolution was reached, the story of the "Destruction of Mankind"
was re-edited, and Hathor was called the "Eye of Re". In the earlier versions she was called
into consultation solely as the giver of life and, to obtain the life-blood, she cut men's
throats with a knife.

But as the Eye of Re she was identified with the fire-spitting uræus-serpent which the king
or god wore on his forehead. She was both the moon and the fiery bolt which shot down from
the sky to slay the enemies of Re. For the men who were originally slaughtered to provide the
blood for an elixir now became the enemies of Re. The reason for this was that, human sacrifice
having been abandoned and substitutes provided to replace the human blood, the story-teller
was at a loss to know why the goddess killed mankind. A reason had to be found--and the rationalization
adopted was that men had rebelled against the gods and had to be killed. This interpretation
was probably the result of a confusion with the old legend of the fight between Horus and Set,
the rulers of the two kingdoms of Egypt. The possibility also suggests itself that a pun made
by some priestly jester may have been the real factor that led to this mingling of two originally
separate stories. In the "Destruction of Mankind" the story runs, according to Budge,[195]
that Re, referring to his enemies, said: mā-ten set uār er set, "Behold ye them (set) fleeing
into the mountain (set)". The enemies were thus identified with the mountain or stone and with
Set, the enemy of the gods.[196]

In Egyptian hieroglyphics the symbol for stone is used as the determinative for Set. When the
"Eye of Re" destroyed mankind and the rebels were thus identified with the followers of Set,
they were regarded as creatures of "stone". In other words the Medusa-eye petrified the enemies.
From this feeble pun on the part of some ancient Egyptian scribe has arisen the world-wide
stories of the influence of the "Evil Eye" and the petrification of the enemies of the gods.[197]
As the name for Isis in Egyptian is "Set" it is possible that the confusion of the Power of
Evil with the Great Mother may also have been facilitated by an extension of the same pun.

It is important to recognize that the legend of Hathor descending from the moon or the sky
in the form of destroying fire had nothing whatever to do, in the first instance, with the
phenomena of lightning and meteorites. It was the result of verbal quibbling after the destructive
goddess came to be identified with the moon, the sky and the "Eye of Re". But once the evolution
of the story on these lines prepared the way, it was inevitable that in later times the powers
of destruction exerted by the fire from the sky should have been identified with the lightning
and meteorites.

When the destructive force of the heavens was attributed to the "Eye of Re" and the god's enemies
were identified with the followers of Set, it was natural that the traditional enemy of Set
who was also the more potent other "Eye of Re" should assume his mother's rôle of punishing
rebellious mankind. That Horus did in fact take the place at first occupied by Hathor in the
story is revealed by the series of trivial episodes from the "Destruction of Mankind" that
reappear in the "Saga of the Winged Disk". The king of Lower Egypt (Horus) was identified with
a falcon, as Hathor was with the vulture (Mut): like her, he entered the sun-god's boat[198]
and sailed up the river with him: he then mounted up to heaven as a winged disk, i.e. the sun
of Re equipped with his own falcon's wings. The destructive force displayed by Hathor as the
Eye of Re was symbolized by her identification with Tefnut, the fire-spitting uræus-snake.
When Horus assumed the form of the winged disk he added to his insignia two fire-spitting serpents
to destroy Re's enemies. The winged disk was at once the instrument of destruction and the
god himself. It swooped (or flew) down from heaven like a bolt of destroying fire and killed
the enemies of Re. By a confusion with Horus's other fight against the followers of Set, the
enemies of Re become identified with Set's army and they are transformed into crocodiles, hippopotami
and all the other kinds of creatures whose shapes the enemies of Osiris assume.

In the course of the development of these legends a multitude of other factors played a part
and gave rise to transformations of the meaning of the incidents.

The goddess originally slaughtered mankind, or perhaps it would be truer to say, made a human
sacrifice, to obtain blood to rejuvenate the king. But, as we have seen already, when the sacrifice
was no longer a necessary part of the programme, the incident of the slaughter was not dropped
out of the story, but a new explanation of it was framed. Instead of simply making a human
sacrifice, mankind as a whole was destroyed for rebelling against the gods, the act of rebellion
being murmuring about the king's old age and loss of virility. The elixir soon became something
more than a rejuvenator: it was transformed into the food of the gods, the ambrosia that gave
them their immortality, and distinguished them from mere mortals. Now when the development
of the story led to the replacement of the single victim by the whole of mankind, the blood
produced by the wholesale slaughter was so abundant that the fields were flooded by the life-giving
elixir. By the sacrifice of men the soil was renewed and refertilized. When the blood-coloured
beer was substituted for the actual blood the conception was brought into still closer harmony
with Egyptian ideas, because the beer was animated with the life-giving powers of Osiris. But
Osiris was the Nile. The blood-coloured fertilizing fluid was then identified with the annual
inundation of the red-coloured waters of the Nile. Now the Nile waters were supposed to come
from the First Cataract at Elephantine. Hence by a familiar psychological process the previous
phase of the legend was recast, and by confusion the red ochre (which was used to colour the
beer red) was said to have come from Elephantine.[199]

Thus we have arrived at the stage where, by a distortion of a series of phases, the new incident
emerges that by means of a human sacrifice the Nile flood can be produced. By a further confusion
the goddess, who originally did the slaughter, becomes the victim. Hence the story assumed
the form that by means of the sacrifice of a beautiful and attractive maiden the annual inundation
can be produced. As the most potent symbol of life-giving it is essential that the victim should
be sexually attractive, i.e. that she should be a virgin and the most beautiful and desirable
in the land. When the practice of human sacrifice was abandoned a figure or an animal was substituted
for the maiden in ritual practice, and in legends the hero rescued the maiden, as Andromeda
was saved from the dragon.[200] The dragon is the personification of the monsters that dwell
in the waters as well as the destructive forces of the flood itself. But the monsters were
no other than the followers of Set; they were the victims of the slaughter who became identified
with the god's other traditional enemies, the followers of Set. Thus the monster from whom
Andromeda is rescued is merely another representative of herself!

But the destructive forces of the flood now enter into the programme. In the phases we have
so far discussed it was the slaughter of mankind which caused the inundation: but in the next
phase it is the flood itself which causes the destruction, as in the later Egyptian and the
borrowed Sumerian, Babylonian, Hebrew--and in fact the world-wide--versions. Re's boat becomes
the ark; the winged disk which was despatched by Re from the boat becomes the dove and the
other birds sent out to spy the land, as the winged Horus spied the enemies of Re.

Thus the new weapon of the gods--we have already noted Hathor's knife and Horus's winged disk,
which is the fire from heaven, the lightning and the thunderbolt--is the flood. Like the others
it can be either a beneficent giver of life or a force of destruction.

But the flood also becomes a weapon of another kind. One of the earlier incidents of the story
represents Hathor in opposition to Re. The goddess becomes so maddened with the zest of killing
that the god becomes alarmed and asks her to desist and spare some representatives of the race.
But she is deaf to entreaties. Hence the god is said to have sent to Elephantine for the red
ochre to make a sedative draught to overcome her destructive zeal. We have already seen that
this incident had an entirely different meaning--it was merely intended to explain the obtaining
of the colouring matter wherewith to redden the sacred beer so as to make it resemble blood
as an elixir for the god. It was brought from Elephantine, because the red waters of inundation
of the Nile were supposed by the Egyptians to come from Elephantine.

But according to the story inscribed in Seti Ist's tomb, the red ochre was an essential ingredient
of the sedative mixture (prepared under the direction of Re by the Sekti[201] of Heliopolis)
to calm Hathor's murderous spirit.

It has been claimed that the story simply means that the goddess became intoxicated with beer
and that she became genially inoffensive solely as the effect of such inebriation. But the
incident in the Egyptian story closely resembles the legends of other countries in which some
herb is used specifically as a sedative. In most books on Egyptian mythology the word (d'd')
for the substance put into the drink to colour it is translated "mandragora," from its resemblance
to the Hebrew word dudaim in the Old Testament, which is often translated "mandrakes" or "love-apples".
But Gauthier has clearly demonstrated that the Egyptian word does not refer to a vegetable
but to a mineral substance, which he translates "red clay".[202] Mr. F. Ll. Griffith tells
me, however, that it is "red ochre". In any case, mandrake is not found at Elephantine (which,
however, for the reasons I have already given, is a point of no importance so far as the identification
of the substance is concerned), nor in fact anywhere in Egypt.

But if some foreign story of the action of a sedative drug had become blended with and incorporated
in the highly complex and composite Egyptian legend the narrative would be more intelligible.
The mandrake is such a sedative as might have been employed to calm the murderous frenzy of
a maniacal woman. In fact it is closely allied to hyoscyamus, whose active principle, hyoscin,
is used in modern medicine precisely for such purposes. I venture to suggest that a folk-tale
describing the effect of opium or some other "drowsy syrup" has been absorbed into the legend
of the Destruction of Mankind, and has provided the starting point of all those incidents in
the dragon-story in which poison or some sleep-producing drug plays a part. For when Hathor
defies Re and continues the destruction, she is playing the part of her Babylonian representative
Tiamat, and is a dragon who has to be vanquished by the drink which the god provides.

The red earth which was pounded in the mortar to make the elixir of life and the fertilizer
of the soil also came to be regarded as the material out of which the new race of men was made
to replace those who were destroyed.

The god fashioned mankind of this earth and, instead of the red ochre being merely the material
to give the blood-colour to the draught of immortality, the story became confused: actual blood
was presented to the clay images to give them life and consciousness.

In a later elaboration the remains of the former race of mankind were ground up to provide
the material out of which their successors were created. This version is a favourite story
in Northern Europe, and has obviously been influenced by an intermediate variant which finds
expression in the Indian legend of the Churning of the Ocean of Milk. Instead of the material
for the elixir of the gods being pounded by the Sekti of Heliopolis and incidentally becoming
a sedative for Hathor, it is the milk of the Divine Cow herself which is churned to provide
the amrita.

[178: G. Maspero, "The Dawn of Civilization," p. 164.]

[179: H. Brugsch, "Die Alraune als altägyptische Zauberpflanze," Zeit. f. Ægypt. Sprache, Bd.
29, 1891, pp. 31-3; and Henri Gauthier, "Le nom hiéroglyphique de l'argile rouge d'Éléphantine,"
Revue Égyptologique, t. xi^e, Nos. i.-ii., 1904, p. 1.]

[180: These legends will be found in the works by Maspero, Erman and Budge, to which I have
already referred. A very useful digest will be found in Donald A. Mackenzie's "Egyptian Myth
and Legend". Mr. Mackenzie does not claim to have any first-hand knowledge of the subject,
but his exceptionally wide and intimate knowledge of Scottish folk-lore, which has preserved
a surprisingly large part of the same legends, has enabled him to present the Egyptian stories
with exceptional clearness and sympathetic insight. But I refer to his book specially because
he is one of the few modern writers who has made the attempt to compare the legends of Egypt,
Babylonia, Crete, India and Western Europe. Griffith tells me that the translation "flooding
the land" is erroneous and misleading. Comparison of the whole series of stories, however,
suggests that the amount of blood shed rapidly increased in the development of the narrative:
at first the blood of a single victim; then the blood of mankind; then 7000 jars of a substitute
for blood; then the red inundation of the Nile.]

[192: This version I have quoted mainly from Erman, op. cit., pp. 267-9, but with certain alterations
which I shall mention later. In another version of the legend wine replaces the beer and is
made out of "the blood of those who formerly fought against the gods," cf. Plutarch, De Iside
(ed. Parthey) 6.]

[193: It is still the custom in many places, and among them especially the regions near the
headwaters of the Nile itself, to regard the king or rain-maker as the impersonation of the
life-giving properties of water and the source of all fertility. When his own vitality shows
signs of failing he is killed, so as not to endanger the fruitfulness of the community by allowing
one who is weak in life-giving powers to control its destinies. Much of the evidence relating
to these matters has been collected by Sir James Frazer in "The Dying God," 1911, who quotes
from Dr. Seligman the following account of the Dinka "Osiris":

"While the mighty spirit Lerpiu is supposed to be embodied in the rain-maker, it is also thought
to inhabit a certain hut which serves as a shrine. In front of the hut stands a post to which
are fastened the horns of many bullocks that have been sacrificed to Lerpiu; and in the hut
is kept a very sacred spear which bears the name of Lerpiu and is said to have fallen from
heaven six generations ago. As fallen stars are also called Lerpiu, we may suspect that an
intimate connexion is supposed to exist between meteorites and the spirit which animates the
rain-maker" (Frazer, op. cit., p. 32). Here then we have a house of the dead inhabited by Lerpiu,
who can also enter the body of the rain-maker and animate him, as well as the ancient spear
and the falling stars, which are also animate forms of the same god, who obviously is the homologue
of Osiris, and is identified with the spear and the falling stars.

In spring when the April moon is a few days old bullocks are sacrificed to Lerpiu. "Two bullocks
are led twice round the shrine and afterwards tied by the rain-maker to the post in front of
it. Then the drums beat and the people, old and young, men and women, dance round the shrine
and sing, while the beasts are being sacrificed, 'Lerpiu, our ancestor, we have brought you
a sacrifice. Be pleased to cause rain to fall.' The blood of the bullocks is collected in a
gourd, boiled in a pot on the fire, and eaten by the old and important people of the clan.
The horns of the animals are attached to the post in front of the shrine" (pp. 32 and 33).]

[194: In Northern Nigeria an official who bore the title of Killer of the Elephant throttled
the king "as soon as he showed signs of failing health or growing infirmity". The king-elect
was afterwards conducted to the centre of the town, called Head of the Elephant, where he was
made to lie down on a bed. Then a black ox was slaughtered and its blood allowed to pour all
over his body. Next the ox was flayed, and the remains of the dead king, which had been disembowelled
and smoked for seven days over a slow fire, were wrapped up in the hide and dragged along to
the place of burial, where they were interred in a circular pit. (Frazer, op. cit., p. 35).]

[195: "Gods of the Egyptians," vol. i., p. 392.]

[196: "The eye of the sun-god, which was subsequently called the eye of Horus and identified
with the Uræus-snake on the forehead of Re and of the Pharaohs, the earthly representatives
of Re, finally becoming synonymous with the crown of Lower Egypt, was a mighty goddess, Uto
or Buto by name" (Alan Gardiner, Article "Magic (Egyptian)" in Hastings' Encyclopædia of Religion
and Ethics, p. 268, quoting Sethe.)]

[197: For an account of the distribution of this story see E. Sidney Hartland, "The Legend
of Perseus"; also W. J. Perry, "The Megalithic Culture of Indonesia".]

[198: The original "boat of the sky" was the crescent moon, which, from its likeness to the
earliest form of Nile boat, was regarded as the vessel in which the moon (seen as a faint object
upon the crescent), or the goddess who was supposed to be personified in the moon, travelled
across the waters of the heavens. But as this "boat" was obviously part of the moon itself,
it also was regarded as an animate form of the goddess, the "Eye of Re". When the Sun, as the
other "Eye," assumed the chief rôle, Re was supposed to traverse the heavens in his own "boat,"
which was also brought into relationship with the actual boat used in the Osirian burial ritual.

The custom of employing the name "dragon" in reference to a boat is found in places as far
apart as Scandinavia and China. It is the direct outcome of these identifications of the sun
and moon with a boat animated by the respective deities. In India the Makara, the prototype
of the dragon, was sometimes represented as a boat which was looked upon as the fish-avatar
of Vishnu, Buddha or some other deity.]

[199: This is an instance of the well-known tendency of the human mind to blend numbers of
different incidents into one story. An episode of one experience, having been transferred to
an earlier one, becomes rationalized in adaptation to its different environment. This process
of psychological transference is the explanation of the reference to Elephantine as the source
of the d'd', and has no relation to actuality. The naïve efforts of Brugsch and Gauthier to
study the natural products of Elephantine for the purpose of identifying d'd' were therefore
wholly misplaced.]

[200: In Hartland's "Legend of Perseus" a collection of variants of this story will be found.]

[201: In the version I have quoted from Erman he refers to "the god Sektet".]

[202: Op. cit. supra.]

The Thunder-Weapon.[203]

In the development of the dragon-story we have seen that the instruments of destruction were
of a most varied kind. Each of the three primary deities, Hathor, Osiris and Horus can be a
destructive power as well as a giver of life and of all kinds of boons. Every homologue or
surrogate of these three deities can become a weapon for dragon-destroying, such as the moon
or the lotus of Hathor, the water or the beer of Osiris, the sun or the falcon of Horus. Originally
Hathor used a flint knife or axe: then she did the execution as "the Eye of Re," the moon,
the fiery bolt from heaven: Osiris sent the destroying flood and the intoxicating beer, each
of which, like the knife, axe and moon of Hathor, were animated by the deity. Then Horus came
as the winged disk, the falcon, the sun, the lightning and the thunderbolt. As the dragon-story
was spread abroad in the world any one of these "weapons" was confused with any of (or all)
the rest. The Eye of Re was the fire-spitting uræus-serpent; and foreign people, like the Greeks,
Indians and others, gave the Egyptian verbal simile literal expression and converted it into
an actual Cyclopean eye planted in the forehead, which shot out the destroying fire.

The warrior god of Babylonia is called the bright one,[204] the sword or lightning of Ishtar,
who was herself called both the sword or lightning of heaven.

In the Ægean area also the sons of Zeus and the progeny of heaven may be axes, stone implements,
meteoric stones and thunderbolts. In a Swahili tale the hero's weapon is "a sword like a flash
of lightning".

According to Bergaigne,[205] the myth of the celestial drink soma, brought down from heaven
by a bird ordinarily called cyena, "eagle," is parallel to that of Agni, the celestial fire
brought by Mâtariçvan. This parallelism is even expressly stated in the Rig Veda, verse 6 of
hymn 1 to Agni and Soma. Mâtariçvan brought the one from heaven, the eagle brought the other
from the celestial mountain.

Kuhn admits that the eagle represents Indra; and Lehmann regards the eagle who takes the fire
as Agni himself. It is patent that both Indra and Agni are in fact merely specialized forms
of Horus of the Winged Disk Saga, in one of which the warrior sun-god is represented, in the
other the living fire. The elixir of life of the Egyptian story is represented by the soma,
which by confusion is associated with the eagle: in other words, the god Soma is the homologue
not only of Osiris, but also of Horus.

Other incidents in the same original version are confused in the Greek story of Prometheus.
He stole the fire from heaven and brought it to earth: but, in place of the episode of the
elixir, which is adopted in the Indian story just mentioned, the creation of men from clay
is accredited by the Greeks to the "flaming one," the "fire eagle" Prometheus.

The double axe was the homologue of the winged disk which fell, or rather flew, from heaven
as the tangible form of the god. This fire from heaven inevitably came to be identified with
the lightning. According to Blinkenberg (op. cit., p. 19) "many points go to prove that the
double-axe is a representation of the lightning (see Usener, p. 20)". He refers to the design
on the famous gold ring from Mycenæ where "the sun, the moon, a double curved line presumably
representing the rainbow, and the double-axe, i.e. the lightning": but "the latter is placed
lower than the others, probably because it descends from heaven to earth," like Horus when
he assumed the form of the winged disk and flew down to earth as a fiery bolt to destroy the
enemies of Re.

The recognition of the homology of the winged disk with the double axe solves a host of problems
which have puzzled classical scholars within recent years. The form of the double axe on the
Mycenæan ring[206] and the painted sarcophagus from Hagia Triada in Crete (and especially the
oblique markings upon the axe) is probably a suggestion of the double series of feathers and
the outlines of the individual feathers respectively on the wings. The position of the axe
upon a symbolic tree is not intended, as Blinkenberg claims (op. cit., p. 21), as "a ritual
representation of the trees struck by lightning": but is the familiar scene of Mesopotamian
culture-area, the tree of life surmounted by the winged disk.[207]

The bird poised upon the axe in the Cretan picture is the homologue of the falcon of Horus:
it is in fact a second representation of the winged disk itself. This interpretation is not
affected by the consideration that the falcon may be replaced by the eagle, pigeon, woodpecker
or raven, for these substitutions were repeatedly made by the ancient priesthoods in flagrant
defiance of the properties of ornithological homologies. The same phenomenon is displayed even
more obtrusively in Central America and Mexico, where the ancient sculptors and painters represented
the bird perched upon the tree of life as a falcon, an eagle, a vulture, a macaw or even a
turkey.[208]

The incident of the winged disk descending to effect the sun-god's purposes upon earth probably
represents the earliest record of the recognition of thunder and lightning and the phenomena
of rain as manifestations of the god's powers. All gods of thunder, lightning, rain and clouds
derive their attributes, and the arbitrary graphic representation of them, from the legend
which the Egyptian scribe has preserved for us in the Saga of the Winged Disk.

The sacred axe of Crete is represented elsewhere as a sword which became the visible impersonation
of the deity.[209] There is a Hittite story of a sword-handle coming to life. Hose and McDougall
refer to the same incident in certain Sarawak legends; and the story is true to the original
in the fact that the sword fell from the sun.[210]

Sir Arthur Evans describes as "the aniconic image of the god" a stone pillar on which crude
pictures of a double axe have been scratched. These representations of the axe in fact serve
the same purpose as the winged disk in Egypt, and, as we shall see subsequently, there was
an actual confusion between the Egyptian symbol and the Cretan axe.

The obelisk at Abusir was the aniconic representative of the sun-god Re, or rather, the support
of the pyramidal apex, the gilded surface of which reflected the sun's rays and so made manifest
the god's presence in the stone.

The Hittites seem to have substituted the winged disk as a representation of the sun: for in
a design copied from a seal[211] we find the Egyptian symbol borne upon the apex of a cone.

The transition from this to the great double axe from Hagia Triada in the Candia Museum[212]
is a relatively easy one, which was materially helped, as we shall see, by the fact that the
winged disk was actually homologized with an axe or knife as alternative weapons used by the
sun-god for the destruction of mankind.

In Dr. Seligman's account of the Dinka rain-maker (supra, p. 113) we have already seen that
the Soudanese Osiris was identified with a spear and falling stars.

According to Dr. Budge[213] the Egyptian hieroglyph used as the determinative of the word neter,
meaning god or spirit, is the axe with a handle. Mr. Griffith, however, interprets it as a
roll of yellow cloth ("Hieroglyphics," p. 46). On Hittite seals the axe sometimes takes the
place of the god Teshub.[214]

Sir Arthur Evans endeavours to explain these conceptions by a vague appeal to certain natural
phenomena (op. cit., pp. 20 and 21); but the identical traditions of widespread peoples are
much too arbitrary and specific to be interpreted by any such speculations.

Sanchoniathon's story of Baetylos being the son of Ouranos is merely a poetical way of saying
that the sun-god fell to earth in the form of a stone or a weapon, as a Zeus Kappôtas or a
Horus in the form of a winged disk, flying down from heaven to destroy the enemies of Re.

"The idea of their [the weapons] flying through the air or falling from heaven, and their supposed
power of burning with inner fire or shining in the nighttime," was not primarily suggested,
as Sir Arthur Evans claims (op. cit., p. 21), "by the phenomena associated with meteoric stones,"
but was a rationalization of the events described in the early Egyptian and Babylonian stories.

They "shine at night" because the original weapon of destruction was the moon as the Eye of
Re. They "burn with inward fire," like the Babylonian Marduk, when in the fight with the dragon
Tiamat "he filled his body with burning flame" (King, op. cit., p. 71), because they were fire,
the fire of the sun and of lightning, the fire spat out by the Eye of Re.

Further evidence in corroboration of these views is provided by the fact that in the Ægean
area the double-axe replaces the moon between the cow's horns (Evans, op. cit., Fig. 3, p. 9).

In King's "Babylonian Religion" (pp. 70 and 71) we are told how the gods provided Marduk with
an invincible weapon in preparation for the combat with the dragon: and the ancient scribe
himself sets forth a series of its homologues:--

He made ready his bow ... He slung a spear ... The bow and quiver ... He set the lightning
in front of him, With burning flame he filled his body.

An ancient Egyptian writer has put on record further identifications of weapons. In the 95th
Chapter of the Book of the Dead, the deceased is reported to have said: "I am he who sendeth
forth terror into the powers of rain and thunder.... I have made to flourish my knife which
is in the hand of Thoth in the powers of rain and thunder" (Budge, "Gods of the Egyptians,"
vol. i., p. 414).

The identification of the winged disk with the thunderbolt which emerges so definitely from
these homologies is not altogether new, for it was suggested some years ago by Count d'Alviella[215]
in these words:--

"On seeing some representations of the Thunderbolt which recall in a remarkable manner the
outlines of the Winged Globe, it may be asked if it was not owing to this latter symbol that
the Greeks transformed into a winged spindle the Double Trident derived from Assyria. At any
rate the transition, or, if it be preferred, the combination of the two symbols is met with
in those coins from Northern Africa where Greek art was most deeply impregnated with Phœnician
types. Thus on coins of Bocchus II, King of Mauretania, figures are found which M. Lajard connected
with the Winged Globe, and M. L. Müller calls Thunderbolts, but which are really the result
of crossing between these two emblems".

The thunderbolt, however, is not always, or even commonly, the direct representative of the
winged disk. It is more often derived from lightning or some floral design.[216]

According to Count d'Alviella[217] "the Trident of Siva at times exhibits the form of a lotus
calyx depicted in the Egyptian manner".

"Perhaps other transformations of the trisula might still be found at Boro-Budur [in Java]....
The same Disk which, when transformed into a most complicated ornament, is sometimes crowned
by a Trident, is also met with between two serpents--which brings us back to the origin of
the Winged Circle--the Globe of Egypt with the uræi" (see d'Alviella's Fig. 158). "Moreover
this ornament, between which and certain forms of the trisula the transition is easily traced,
commonly surmounts the entrance to the pagodas depicted in the bas-reliefs--in exactly the
same manner as the Winged Globe adorns the lintel of the temples in Egypt and Phœnicia."

Thus we find traces of a blending of the two homologous designs, derived independently from
the lotus and the winged disk, which acquired the same symbolic significance.

The weapon of Poseidon, the so-called "Trident of Neptune," is "sometimes crowned with a trilobate
lotus flower, or with three lotus buds; in other cases it is depicted in a shape that may well
represent a fishing spear" (Blinkenberg, op. cit., pp. 53 and 54).

"Even if Jacobsthal's interpretation of the flower as a common Greek symbol for fire be not
accepted, the conventionalization of the trident as a lotus blossom is quite analogous to the
change, on Greek soil, of the Assyrian thunderweapon to two flowers pointing in opposite directions"
(p. 54).

But the conception of a flower as a symbol of fire cannot thus summarily be dismissed. For
Sir Arthur Evans has collected all the stages in the transformation of Egyptian palmette pillars
into the rayed pillars of Cyprus, in which the leaflets of the palmette become converted (in
the Cypro-Mycenæan derivatives) into the rays which he calls "the natural concomitant of divinities
of light".[218]

The underlying motive which makes such a transference easy is the Egyptian conception of Hathor
as a sacred lotus from which the sun-god Horus is born. The god of light is identified with
the water-plant, whether lotus, iris or lily; and the lotus form of Horus can be correlated
with its Hellenic surrogate, Apollo Hyakinthos. "The fleur-de-lys type now takes its place
beside the sacred lotus" (op. cit., p. 50). The trident and the fleur-de-lys are thunderweapons
because they represent forms of Horus or his mother.

The classical keraunos is still preserved in Tibet as the dorje, which is identified with Indra's
thunderbolt, the vajra.[219] This word is also applied to the diamond, the "king of stones,"
which in turn acquired many of the attributes of the pearl, another of the Great Mother's surrogates,
which is reputed to have fallen from heaven like the thunderbolt.[220]

The Tibetan dorje, like its Greek original, is obviously a conventionalized flower, the leaf-design
about the base of the corona being quite clearly defined.

The influence of the Winged-Disk Saga is clearly revealed in such Greek myths as that relating
to Ixion. "Euripides is represented by Aristophanes as declaring that Aithér at the creation
devised

  The eye to mimic the wheel of the sun."[221]

When we read of Zeus in anger binding Ixion to a winged wheel made of fire, and sending him
spinning through the air, we are merely dealing with a Greek variant of the Egyptian myth in
which Re despatched Horus as a winged disk to slay his enemies. In the Hellenic version the
sky-god is angry with the father of the centaurs for his ill-treatment of his father-in-law
and his behaviour towards Hera and her cloud-manifestation: but though distorted all the incidents
reveal their original inspiration in the Egyptian story and its early Aryan variants.

It is remarkable that Mr. A. B. Cook, who compared the wheel of Ixion with the Egyptian winged
disk (pp. 205-10), did not look deeper for a common origin of the two myths, especially when
he got so far as to identify Ixion with the sun-god (p. 211).

Blinkenberg sums up the development of the thunder-weapon thus: "From the old Babylonian representation
of the lightning, i.e. two or three zigzag lines representing flames, a tripartite thunder-weapon
was evolved and earned east and west from the ancient seat of civilization. Together with the
axe (in Western Asia Minor the double-edged, and towards the centre of Asia the single-edged,
axe) it became a regular attribute of the Asiatic thunder-gods.... The Indian trisula and the
Greek triaina are both its descendants" (p. 57).

Discussing the relationship of the sun-god to thunder, Dr. Rendel Harris refers to the fact
that Apollo's "arrows are said to be lightnings," and he quotes Pausanias, Apollodorus and
Mr. A. B. Cook in substantiation of his statements.[222] Both sons of Zeus, Dionysus and Apollo,
are "concerned with the production of fire".

According to Hyginus, Typhon was the son of Tartarus and the Earth: he made war against Jupiter
for dominion, and, being struck by lightning, was thrown flaming to the earth, where Mount
Ætna was placed upon him.[223]

In this curious variant of the story of the winged disk, the conflict of Horus with Set is
merged with the Destruction, for the son of Tartarus [Osiris] and the Earth [Isis] here is
not Horus but his hostile brother Set. Instead of fighting for Jupiter (Re) as Horus did, he
is against him. The lightning (which is Horus in the form of the winged disk) strikes Typhon
and throws him flaming to earth. The episode of Mount Ætna is the antithesis of the incident
in the Indian legend of the churning of the ocean: Mount Meru is placed in the sea upon the
tortoise avatar of Vishnu and is used to churn the food of immortality for the gods. In the
Egyptian story the red ochre brought from Elephantine is pounded with the barley.

In the later variants the original significance of the Destruction of Mankind seems to have
been lost sight of. The life-giving Great Mother tends to drop out of the story and her son
Horus takes her place. He becomes the warrior-god, but he not only assumes his mother's rôle
but he also adopts her tactics. Just as she attacked Re's enemies in the capacity of the sky-god's
"Eye," so Horus as the other "Eye," the sun, to which he gave his own falcon's wings, attacked
in the form of the winged disk. The winged disk, like the other "Eye of Re," was not merely
the sky weapon which shot down to destroy mankind, but also was the god Horus himself. This
early conception involved the belief that the thunderbolt and lightning represented not merely
the fiery weapon but the actual god.

The winged disk thus exhibits the same confusion of attributes as we have already noticed in
Osiris and Hathor. It is the commonest symbol of life-giving and beneficent protective power:
yet it is the weapon used to slaughter mankind. It is in fact the healing caduceus as well
as the baneful thunder-weapon.

[203: The history of the thunder-weapon cannot wholly be ignored in discussing the dragon-myth
because it forms an integral part of the story. It was animated both by the dragon and the
dragon-slayer. But an adequate account of the weapon would be so highly involved and complex
as to be unintelligible without a very large series of illustrations. Hence I am referring
here only to certain aspects of the subject. Pending the preparation of a monograph upon the
thunder-weapon, I may refer the reader to the works of Blinkenberg, d'Alviella, Ward, Evans
and A. B. Cook (to which frequent reference is made in these pages) for material, especially
in the form of illustrations, to supplement my brief and unavoidably involved summary.]

[204: As in Egypt Osiris is described as "a ray of light" which issued from the moon (Hathor),
i.e. was born of the Great Mother.]

[205: "Religion védique," i., p. 173, quoted by S. Reinach, "Ætos Prometheus," Revue archéologique,
4^ie série, tome x., 1917, p. 72.]

[206: Evans, op. cit., Fig. 4, p. 10.]

[207: William Hayes Ward, "The Seal Cylinders of Western Asia," chapter xxxviii.]

[208: Seler, "Codex Vaticanus, No. 3773," vol. i., p. 77 et seq.]

[209: Evans, op. cit., p. 8.]

[210: "The Pagan Tribes of Borneo," 1912, vol. ii., p. 137.]

[211: Evans, op. cit., Fig. 8, c, p. 17.]

[212: There is an excellent photograph of this in Donald McKenzie's "Myths of Crete and Pre-Hellenic
Europe," facing p. 160.]

[213: "The Gods of the Egyptians," vol. i., pp. 63 et seq.]

[214: See, for example, Ward, op. cit., p. 411.]

[215: "The Migration of Symbols," pp. 220 and 221.]

[216: Blinkenberg, op. cit., p. 53.]

[217: Op. cit., p. 256.]

[218: "Mycenæan Tree and Pillar Cult," pp. 51 and 52.]

[219: See Blinkenberg, op. cit., pp. 45-8.]

[220: I must defer consideration of the part played by certain of the Great Mother's surrogates
in the development of the thunder-weapon's symbolism and the associated folk-lore. I have in
mind especially the influence of the octopus and the cow. The former was responsible in part
for the use of the spiral as a thunder-symbol; and the latter for the beliefs in the special
protective power of thunder-stones over cows (see Blinkenberg, op. cit.). The thunder-stone
was placed over the lintel of the cow-shed for the same purpose as the winged disk over the
door of an Egyptian temple. Until the relations of the octopus to the dragon have been set
forth it is impossible adequately to discuss the question of the seven-headed dragon, which
ranges from Scotland to Japan and from Scandinavia to the Zambesi. In "The Birth of Aphrodite"
I shall call attention to the basal factors in its evolution.]

[221: A. B. Cook, "Zeus," vol. i., p. 198.]

[222: "The Ascent of Olympus," p. 32.]

[223: "Tartarus ex Terra procreavit Typhonem, immani magnitudine, specieque portentosa, cui
centum capita draconum ex humeris enata erant. Hic Jovem provocavit, si vellet secum de regno
centare. Jovis fulmine ardenti pectus ejus percussit. Cui cum flagraret, montem Ætnam, qui
est in Siciliâ, super eum imposuit; qui ex eo adhuc ardere dicitur" (Hyginus, fab. 152).]

The Deer.

One of the most surprising features of the dragon in China, Japan and America, is the equipment
of deer's horns.

In Babylonia both Ea and Marduk are intimately associated with the antelope or gazelle, and
the combination of the head of the antelope (or in other cases the goat) with the body of a
fish is the most characteristic manifestation of either god. In Egypt both Osiris and Horus
are at times brought into relationship with the gazelle or antelope, but more often it represents
their enemy Set. Hence, in some parts of Africa, especially in the west, the antelope plays
the part of the dragon in Asiatic stories.[224] The cow[225] of Hathor (Tiamat) may represent
the dragon also. In East Africa the antelope assumes the rôle of the hero,[226] and is the
representative of Horus. In the Ægean area, Asia Minor and Europe the antelope, gazelle or
the deer, may be associated with the Great Mother.[227]

In India the god Soma's chariot is drawn by an antelope. I have already suggested that Soma
is only a specialized form of the Babylonian Ea, whose evil avatar is the dragon: there is
thus suggested another link between the antelope and the latter. The Ea-element explains the
fish-scales and the antelope provides the horns. I shall return to the discussion of this point
later.

Vayu or Pavana, the Indian god of the winds, who afterwards became merged with Indra, rides
upon an antelope like the Egyptian Horus. Soma's attributes also were in large measure taken
over by Indra. Hence in this complex tissue of contradictions we once more find the dragon-slayer
acquiring the insignia, in this case the antelope, of his mortal enemy.

I have already referred to the fact that the early Babylonian deities could also be demons.
Tiamat, the dragon whom Marduk fought, was merely the malevolent avatar of the Great Mother.
The dragon acquired his covering of fish-scales from an evil form of Ea.

In his Hibbert Lectures Professor Sayce claimed that the name of Ea was expressed by an ideograph
which signifies literally "the antelope" (p. 280). "Ea was called 'the antelope of the deep,'
'the antelope the creator,' 'the lusty antelope'. We should have expected the animal of Ea
to have been the fish: the fact that it is not so points to the conclusion that the culture-god
of Southern Babylonia was an amalgamation of two earlier deities, one the divine antelope and
the other the divine fish." Ea was "originally the god of the river and was also associated
with the snake". Nina was also both the fish-goddess and the divinity whose name is interchanged
with that of the deep. Professor Sayce then refers to "the curious process of development which
transformed the old serpent-goddess, 'the lady Nina,' into the embodiment of all that was hostile
to the powers of heaven; but after all, Nina had sprung from the fish-god of the deep [who
also was both antelope and serpent as well, see p. 282], and Tiamat is herself 'the deep' in
Semitic dress" (p. 283).

"At times Ea was regarded as a gazelle rather than as an antelope." The position of the name
in the list of animals shows what species of animal must be meant. Lulim, "a stag," seems to
be a re-duplicated form of the same word. Both lulim and elim are said to be equivalent to
sarru, king (p. 284).

Certain Assyriologists, from whom I asked for enlightenment upon these philological matters,
express some doubt as to the antiquity or to the reality of the association of the names of
Ea and the word for an antelope, gazelle or stag. But whatever the value of the linguistic
evidence, the archæological, at any rate as early as the time of Nebuchadnezzar I, brings both
Ea and Marduk into close association with a strange creature equipped with the horns of an
antelope or gazelle. The association with the antelope of the homologous deities in India and
Egypt leaves the reality of the connexion in no doubt. I had hoped that Professor Sayce's evidence
would have provided some explanation of the strange association of the antelope. But whether
or not the philological data justify the inferences which Professor Sayce drew from them, there
can be no doubt concerning the correctness of his statement that Ea was represented both by
fish and antelope, for in the course of his excavations at Susa M. J. de Morgan brought to
light representations of Ea's animal consisting of an antelope's head on the body of a fish.[228]
He also makes the statement that the ideogram of Ea, turahu-apsu, means "antelope of the sea".
I have already (p. 88) referred to the fact that this "antelope of the sea," the so-called
"goat-fish," is identical with the prototype of the dragon.

If his claim that the names of Ea meant both a "fish" and an "antelope" were well founded,
the pun would have solved this problem, as it has done in the case of many other puzzles in
the history of early civilization. But if this is not the case, the question is still open
for solution. As Set was held to be personified in all the desert animals, the gazelle was
identified with the demon of evil for this reason. In her important treatise on "The Asiatic
Dionysos" Miss Gladys Davis tells us that "in his aspect of Moon 'the lord of stars' Soma has
in this character the antelope as his symbol. In fact, one of the names given to the moon by
the early Indians was 'mṛiga-piplu' or marked like an antelope" (p. 202). Further she adds:
"The Sanskrit name for the lunar mansion over which Soma presides is 'mṛiga-śiras' or the deer-headed."
If it be admitted that Soma is merely the Aryan specialization of Ea and Osiris, as I have
claimed, Sayce's association of Ea with the antelope is corroborated, even if it is not explained.

In China the dragon was sometimes called "the celestial stag" (de Groot, op. cit., p. 1143).
In Mexico the deer has the same intimate celestial relations as it has in the Old World (see
Seler, Zeit. f. Ethnologie, Bd. 41, p. 414). I have already referred to the remarkable Maya
deer-crocodile makara in the Liverpool Museum (p. 103).

The systematic zoology of the ancients was lacking in the precision of modern times; and there
are reasons for supposing that the antelope and gazelle could exchange places the one with
the other in their divine rôles; the deer and the rabbit were also their surrogates. In India
a spotted rabbit can take the place of the antelope in playing the part of what we call "the
man in the moon". This interpretation is common, not only in India, but also in China, and
is repeatedly found in the ancient Mexican codices (Seler, op. cit.). In the spread of the
ideas we have just been considering from Babylonia towards the north we find that the deer
takes the place of the antelope.

In view of the close resemblance between the Indian god Soma and the Phrygian Dionysus, which
has been demonstrated by Miss Gladys Davis, it is of interest to note that in the service of
the Greek god a man was disguised as a stag, slain and eaten.[229]

Artemis also, one of the many avatars of the Great Mother, who was also related to the moon,
was closely associated with the deer.

I have already referred to the fact that in Africa the dragon rôle of the female antelope may
be assumed by the cow or buffalo. In the case of the gods Soma and Dionysus their association
with the antelope or deer may be extended to the bull. Miss Davis (op. cit.) states that in
the Homa Yasht the deer-headed lunar mansion over which the god presides is spoken of as "leading
the Paurvas," i.e. Pleiades: "Mazda brought to thee (Homa) the star-studded spirit-fashioned
girdle (the belt of Orion) leading the Paurvas. Now the Bull-Dionysus was especially associated
with the Pleiades on ancient gems and in classical mythology--which form part of the sign Taurus."
The bull is a sign of Haoma (Homa) or Soma. The belt of the thunder-god Thor corroborates the
fact of the diffusion of these Babylonian ideas as far as Northern Europe.

[224: Frobenius, "The Voice of Africa," vol. ii., p. 467 inter alia.]

[225: Op. cit., p. 468.]

[226: J. F. Campbell, "The Celtic Dragon Myth," with the "Geste of Fraoch and the Dragon,"
translated with Introduction by George Henderson, Edinburgh, 1911, p. 136.]

[227: For example the red deer occupies the place usually taken by the goddess's lions upon
a Cretan gem (Evans, "Mycenæan Tree and Pillar Cult," Fig. 32, p. 56): on the bronze plate
from Heddemheim (A. B. Cook, "Zeus," vol. i., pl. xxxiv., and p. 620) Isis is represented standing
on a hind: Artemis, another avatar of the same Great Mother, was intimately associated with deer.]

[228: J. de Morgan, article on "Koudourrous," Mem. Del. en Perse, t. 7, 1905. Figures on p.
143 and p. 148: see also an earlier article on the same subject in tome i. of the same series.]

[229: A. B. Cook, "Zeus," vol. i., p. 674.]

The Ram.

The close association of the ram with the thunder-god is probably related with the fact that
the sun-god Amon in Egypt was represented by the ram with a distinctive spiral horn. This spiral
became a distinctive feature of the god of thunder throughout the Hellenic and Phœnician worlds
and in those parts of Africa which were affected by their influence or directly by Egypt.

An account of the widespread influence of the ram-headed god of thunder in the Soudan and West
Africa has been given by Frobenius.[230]

But the ram also became associated with Agni, the Indian fire-god, and the spiral as a head-appendage
became the symbol of thunder throughout China and Japan, and from Asia spread to America where
such deities as Tlaloc still retain this distinctive token of their origin from the Old World.

In Europe this association of the ram and its spiral horn played an even more obtrusive part.

The octopus as a surrogate of the Great Mother was primarily responsible for the development
of the life-giving attributes of the spiral motif. But the close connexion of the Great Mother
with the dragon and the thunder-weapon prepared the way for the special association of the
spiral with thunder, which was confirmed when the ram with its spiral horn became the God of
Thunder.

[230: Op. cit., vol. i., pp. 212-27.]

The Pig.

The relationship of the pig to the dragon is on the whole analogous to that of the cow and
the stag, for it can play either a beneficent or a malevolent part. But the nature of the special
circumstances which gave the pig a peculiar notoriety as an unclean animal are so intimately
associated with the "Birth of Aphrodite" that I shall defer the discussion of them for my lecture
on the history of the goddess.

Certain Incidents in the Dragon Myth.

Throughout the greater part of the area which tradition has peopled with dragons, iron is regarded
as peculiarly lethal to the monsters. This seems to be due to the part played by the "smiths"
who forged iron weapons with which Horus overcame Set and his followers,[231] or in the earlier
versions of the legend the metal weapons by means of which the people of Upper Egypt secured
their historic victory over the Lower Egyptians. But the association of meteoric iron with
the thunderbolt, the traditional weapon for destroying dragons, gave added force to the ancient
legend and made it peculiarly apt as an incident in the story.

But though the dragon is afraid of iron, he likes precious gems and k'ung-ts'ing ("The Stone
of Darkness") and is fond of roasted swallows.

The partiality of dragons for swallows was due to the transmission of a very ancient story
of the Great Mother, who in the form of Isis was identified with the swallow. In China, so
ravenous is the monster for this delicacy, that anyone who has eaten of swallows should avoid
crossing the water, lest the dragon whose home is in the deep should devour the traveller to
secure the dainty morsel of swallow. But those who pray for rain use swallows to attract the
beneficent deity. Even in England swallows flying low are believed to be omens of coming rain--a
tale which is about as reliable as the Chinese variant of the same ancient legend.

"The beautiful gems remind us of the Indian dragons; the pearls of the sea were, of course,
in India as well as China and Japan, considered to be in the special possession of the dragon-shaped
sea-gods" (de Visser, p. 69). The cultural drift from West to East along the southern coast
of India was effected mainly by sailors who were searching for pearls. Sharks constituted the
special dangers the divers had to incur in exploiting pearl-beds to obtain the precious "giver
of life". But at the time these great enterprises were first undertaken in the Indian Ocean
the people dwelling in the neighbourhood of the chief pearl-beds regarded the sea as the great
source of all life-giving virtues and the god who exercised these powers was incarnated in
a fish. The sharks therefore had to be brought into harmony with this scheme, and they were
rationalized as the guardians of the storehouse of life-giving pearls at the bottom of the sea.

I do not propose to discuss at present the diffusion to the East of the beliefs concerning
the shark and the modifications which they underwent in the course of these migrations in Melanesia
and elsewhere; but in my lecture upon "the Birth of Aphrodite" I shall have occasion to refer
to its spread to the West and explain how the shark's rôle was transferred to the dog-fish
in the Mediterranean. The dog-fish then assumed a terrestrial form and became simply the dog
who plays such a strange part in the magical ceremony of digging up the mandrake.

At present we are concerned merely with the shark as the guardian of the stores of pearls at
the bottom of the sea. He became identified with the Nâga and the dragon, and the store of
pearls became a vast treasure-house which it became one of the chief functions of the dragon
to guard. This episode in the wonder-beast's varied career has a place in most of the legends
ranging from Western Europe to Farthest Asia. Sometimes the dragon carries a pearl under his
tongue or in his chin as a reserve of life-giving substance.

Mr. Donald Mackenzie has called attention[232] to the remarkable influence upon the development
of the Dragon Myth of the familiar Egyptian representation of the child Horus with a finger
touching his lips. On some pretence or other, many of the European dragon-slaying heroes, such
as Sigurd and the Highland Finn, place their fingers in their mouths. This action is usually
rationalized by the statement that the hero burnt his fingers while cooking the slain monster.

[231: Budge, "Gods of the Egyptians," vol. i., p. 476.]

[232: "Egyptian Myth and Legend," pp. 340 et seq.]

The Ethical Aspect.

So far in this discussion I have been dealing mainly with the problems of the dragon's evolution,
the attainment of his or her distinctive anatomical features and physiological attributes.
But during this process of development a moral and ethical aspect of the dragon's character
was also emerging.

Now that we have realized the fact of the dragon's homology with the moon-god it is important
to remember that one of the primary functions of this deity, which later became specialized
in the Egyptian god Thoth, was the measuring of time and the keeping of records. The moon,
in fact, was the controller of accuracy, of truth, and order, and therefore the enemy of falsehood
and chaos. The identification of the moon with Osiris, who from a dead king eventually developed
into a king of the dead, conferred upon the great Father of Waters the power to exact from
men respect for truth and order. For even if at first these ideas were only vaguely adumbrated
and not expressed in set phrases, it must have been an incentive to good discipline when men
remembered that the record-keeper and the guardian of law and order was also the deity upon
whose tender mercies they would have to rely in the life after death. Set, the enemy of Osiris,
who is the real prototype of the evil dragon, was the antithesis of the god of justice: he
was the father of falsehood and the symbol of chaos. He was the prototype of Satan, as Osiris
was the first definite representative of the Deity of which any record has been preserved.

The history of the evil dragon is not merely the evolution of the devil, but it also affords
the explanation of his traditional peculiarities, his bird-like features, his horns, his red
colour, his wings and cloven hoofs, and his tail. They are all of them the dragon's distinctive
features; and from time to time in the history of past ages we catch glimpses of the reality
of these identifications. In one of the earliest woodcuts (Fig. 17) found in a printed book
Satan is depicted as a monk with the bird's feet of the dragon. A most interesting intermediate
phase is seen in a Chinese water-colour in the John Rylands Library, in which the thunder-dragon
is represented in a form almost exactly reproducing that of the devil of European tradition
(Fig. 16).

Early in the Christian era, when ancient beliefs in Egypt became disguised under a thin veneer
of Christianity, the story of the conflict between Horus and Set was converted into a conflict
between Christ and Satan. M. Clermont-Ganneau has described an interesting bas-relief in the
Louvre in which a hawk-headed St. George, clad in Roman military uniform and mounted on a horse,
is slaying a dragon which is represented by Set's crocodile.[233] But the Biblical references
to Satan leave no doubt as to his identity with the dragon, who is specifically mentioned in
the Book of Revelations as "the old serpent which is the Devil and Satan" (xx. 2).

The devil Set was symbolic of disorder and darkness, while the god Osiris was the maintainer
of order and the giver of light. Although the moon-god, in the form of Osiris, Thoth and other
deities, thus came to acquire the moral attributes of a just judge, who regulated the movements
of the celestial bodies, controlled the waters upon the earth, and was responsible for the
maintenance of order in the Universe, the ethical aspect of his functions was in large measure
disguised by the material importance of his duties. In Babylonia similar views were held with
respect to the beneficent water-god Ea, who was the giver of civilization, order and justice,
and Sin, the moon-god, who "had attained a high position in the Babylonian pantheon," as "the
guide of the stars and the planets, the overseer of the world at night". "From that conception
a god of high moral character soon developed." "He is an extremely beneficent deity, he is
a king, he is the ruler of men, he produces order and stability, like Shamash and like the
Indian Varuṇa and Mitra, but besides that, he is also a judge, he loosens the bonds of the
imprisoned, like Varuṇa. His light, like that of Varuṇa, is the symbol of righteousness....
Like the Indian Varuṇa and the Iranian Mazdâh, he is a god of wisdom."

When these Egyptian and Babylonian ideas were borrowed by the Aryans, and the Iranian Mazdâh
and the Indian Varuṇa assumed the rôle of the beneficent deity of the former more ancient civilizations,
the material aspect of the functions of the moon-god became less obtrusive; and there gradually
emerged the conception, to which Zarathushtra first gave concrete expression, of the beneficent
god Ahura Mazdâh as "an omniscient protector of morality and creator of marvellous power and
knowledge". "He is the most-knowing one, and the most-seeing one. No one can deceive him. He
watches with radiant eyes everything that is done in open or in secret." "Although he has a
strong personality he has no anthropomorphic features." He has shed the material aspects which
loomed so large in his Egyptian, Babylonian and earlier Aryan prototypes, and a more ethereal
conception of a God of the highest ethical qualities has emerged.

The whole of this process of transformation has been described with deep insight and lucid
exposition by Professor Cumont, from whose important and convincing memoir I have quoted so
freely in the foregoing paragraphs.[234]

The creation of a beneficent Deity of such moral grandeur inevitably emphasized the baseness
and the malevolence of the "Power of Evil". No longer are the gods merely glorified human beings
who can work good or evil as they will; but there is now an all-powerful God controlling the
morals of the universe, and in opposition to Him "the dragon, the old serpent, which is the
Devil and Satan".

[233: "Horus et St. George d'après un bas-relief inedit du Louvre," Revue Archéologique, Nouvelle
Série, t. xxxii., 1876, p. 196, pl. xviii.

THE BIRTH OF APHRODITE.[235]

It may seem ungallant to discuss the birth of Aphrodite as part of the story of the evolution
of the dragon. But the other chapters of this book, in which frequent references have been
made to the early history of the Great Mother, have revealed how vital a part she played in
the development of the dragon. The earliest real dragon was Tiamat, one of the forms assumed
by the Great Mother; and an even earlier prototype was the lioness (Sekhet) manifestation of
Hathor.

Thus it becomes necessary to enquire more fully (than has been done in the other chapters)
into the circumstances of the Great Mother's birth and development, and to investigate certain
aspects of her ontogeny to which only scant attention has been paid in the preceding pages.

Several reasons have led me to select Aphrodite from the vast legion of Great Mothers for special
consideration. In spite of her high specialization in certain directions the Greek goddess
of love retains in greater measure than any of her sisters some of the most primitive associations
of her original parent. Like vestigial structures in biology, these traits afford invaluable
evidence, not only of Aphrodite's own ancestry and early history, but also of that of the whole
family of goddesses of which she is only a specialized type. For Aphrodite's connexion with
shells is a survival of the circumstances which called into existence the first Great Mother
and made her not only the Creator of mankind and the universe, but also the parent of all deities,
as she was historically the first to be created by human inventiveness. In this lecture I propose
to deal with the more general aspects of the evolution of all these daughters of the Great
Mother: but I have used Aphrodite's name in the title because her shell-associations can be
demonstrated more clearly and definitely than those of any of her sisters.

In the past a vast array of learning has been brought to bear upon the problems of Aphrodite's
origin; but this effort has, for the most part, been characterized by a narrowness of vision
and a lack of adequate appreciation of the more vital factors in her embryological history.
In the search for the deep human motives that found specific expression in the great goddess
of love, too little attention has been paid to primitive man's psychology, and his persistent
striving for an elixir of life to avert the risk of death, to renew youth and secure a continuance
of existence after death. On the other hand, the possibility of obtaining any real explanation
has been dashed aside by most scholars, who have been content simply to juggle with certain
stereotyped catchphrases and baseless assumptions, simply because the traditions of classical
scholarship have made these devices the pawns in a rather aimless game.

It is unnecessary to cite specific illustrations in support of this statement. Reference to
any of the standard works on classical archæology, such as Roscher's "Lexikon," will testify
to the truth of my accusation. In her "Prolegomena to the Study of Greek Religion" Miss Jane
Harrison devotes a chapter (VI) to "The Making of a Goddess," and discusses "The Birth of Aphrodite".
But she strictly observes the traditions of the classical method; and assumes that the meaning
of the myth of Aphrodite's birth from the sea--the germs of which are at least fifty centuries
old--can be decided by the omission of any representation of the sea in the decoration of a
pot made in the fifth century B.C.!

But apart from this general criticism, the lack of resourcefulness and open mindedness, certain
more specific factors have deflected classical scholars from the true path. In the search for
the ancestry of Aphrodite, they have concentrated their attention too exclusively upon the
Mediterranean area and Western Asia, and so ignored the most ancient of the historic Great
Mothers, the African Hathor, with whom (as Sir Arthur Evans[236] clearly demonstrated more
than fifteen years ago) the Cypriote goddess has much closer affinities than with any of her
Asiatic sisters. Yet no scholar, either on the Greek or Egyptian side, has seriously attempted
to follow up this clue and really investigate the nature of the connexions between Aphrodite
and Hathor, and the history of the development of their respective specializations of functions.[237]

But some explanation must be given for my temerity in venturing to invade the intensively cultivated
domains of Aphrodite "with a mind undebauched by classical learning". I have already explained
how the study of Libations and Dragons brought me face to face with the problems of the Great
Mother's attributes. At that stage of the enquiry two circumstances directed my attention specifically
to Aphrodite. Mr. Wilfrid Jackson was collecting the data relating to the cultural uses of
shells, which he has since incorporated in a book.[238] As the results of his search accumulated,
the fact soon emerged that the original Great Mother was nothing more than a cowry-shell used
as a life-giving amulet; and that Aphrodite's shell-associations were a survival of the earliest
phase in the Great Mother's history. At this psychological moment Dr. Rendel Harris[239] claimed
that Aphrodite was a personification of the mandrake. But the magical attributes of the mandrake,
which he claimed to have been responsible for converting the amulet into a goddess, were identical
with those which Jackson's investigations had previously led me to regard as the reasons for
deriving Aphrodite from the cowry. The mandrake was clearly a surrogate of the shell or vice
versa.[240] The problem to be solved was to decide which amulet was responsible for suggesting
the process of life-giving. The goddess Aphrodite was closely related to Cyprus; the mandrake
was a magical plant there; and the cowry is so intimately associated with the island as to
be called Cypræa. So far as is known, however, the shell-amulet is vastly more ancient than
the magical reputation of the plant. Moreover, we know why the cowry was regarded as feminine
and accredited with life-giving attributes. There are no such reasons for assigning life-giving
powers or the female sex to the mandrake. The claim that its magical properties are due to
the fancied resemblance of its root to a human being is wholly untenable.[241] The roots of
many plants are at least as manlike; and, even if this character was the exclusive property
of the mandrake, how does it help to explain the remarkable repetory of quite arbitrary and
fantastic properties and the female sex assigned to the plant? Sir James Frazer's claim[242]
that "such beliefs and practices illustrate the primitive tendency to personify nature" is
a gratuitous and quite irrelevant assumption, which offers no explanation whatsoever of the
specific and arbitrary nature of the form assumed by the personification. But when we investigate
the historical development of the peculiar attributes of the cowry-shell, and appreciate why
and how they were acquired, any doubt as to the source from which the mandrake obtained its
"magic" is removed; and with it the fallacy of Sir James Frazer's wholly unwarranted claims
is also exposed.

If we ignore Sir James Frazer's naïve speculations we can make use of the compilations of evidence
which he makes with such remarkable assiduity. But it is more profitable to turn to the study
of the remarkable lectures which Dr. Rendel Harris has been delivering in this room[243] during
the last few years. Our genial friend has been cultivating his garden on the slopes of Olympus,[244]
and has been plucking the rich fruits of his ripe scholarship and nimble wit. At the same time,
with rougher implements and cruder methods, I have been burrowing in the depths of the earth,
trying to recover information concerning the habits and thoughts of mankind many centuries
before Dionysus and Apollo, and Artemis and Aphrodite, were dreamt of.

In the course of these subterranean gropings no one was more surprised than I was to discover
that I was getting entangled in the roots of the same plants whose golden fruit Dr. Rendel
Harris was gathering from his Olympian heights. But the contrast in our respective points of
view was perhaps responsible for the different appearance the growths assumed.

To drop the metaphor, while he was searching for the origins of the deities a few centuries
before the Christian era began, I was finding their more or less larval forms flourishing more
than twenty centuries before the commencement of his story. For the gods and goddesses of his
narrative were only the thinly disguised representatives of much more ancient deities decked
out in the sumptuous habiliments of Greek culture.

In his lecture on Aphrodite, Dr. Rendel Harris claimed that the goddess was a personification
of the mandrake; and I think he made out a good prima facie case in support of his thesis.
But other scholars have set forth equally valid reasons for associating Aphrodite with the
argonaut, the octopus, the purpura, and a variety of other shells, both univalves and bivalves.[245]

The goddess has also been regarded as a personification of water, the ocean, or its foam.[246]
Then again she is closely linked with pigs, cows, lions, deer, goats, rams, dolphins, and a
host of other creatures, not forgetting the dove, the swallow, the partridge, the sparling,
the goose, and the swan.[247]

The mandrake theory does not explain, or give adequate recognition to, any of these facts.
Nor does Dr. Rendel Harris suggest why it is so dangerous an operation to dig up the mandrake
which he identifies with the goddess, or why it is essential to secure the assistance of a
dog[248] in the process. The explanation of this fantastic fable gives an important clue to
Aphrodite's antecedents.

[235: An elaboration of a lecture delivered at the John Rylands Library, on 14 November, 1917.]

[236: "Mycenæan Tree and Pillar Cult," p. 52. Compare also A. E. W. Budge, "The Gods of the
Egyptians," Vol. I, p. 435.]

[237: With a strange disregard of Sir Arthur Evans's "Mycenæan Tree and Pillar Cult," Mr. H.
R. Hall makes the following remarks in his "Ægean Archæology" (p. 150): "The origin of the
goddess Aphrodite has long been taken for granted. It has been regarded as a settled fact that
she was Semitic, and came to Greece from Phœnicia or Cyprus. But the new discoveries have thrown
this, like other received ideas, into the melting-pot, for the Minoans undoubtedly worshipped
an Aphrodite. We see her, naked and with her doves, on gold plaques from one of the Mycenæan
shaft-graves (Schuchhardt, Schliemann, Figs. 180, 181), which must be as old as the First Late
Minoan period (c. 1600-1500 B.C.), and--not rising from the foam, but sailing over it--in a
boat, naked, on the lost gold ring from Mochlos. It is evident now that she was not only a
Canaanitish-Syrian goddess, but was common to all the people of the Levant. She is Aphrodite-Paphia
in Cyprus, Ashtaroth-Astarte in Canaan, Atargatis in Syria, Derketo in Philistria, Hathor in
Egypt; what the Minoans called her we do not know, unless she was Britomartis. She must take
her place by the side of Rhea-Diktynna in the Minoan pantheon."

It is not without interest to note that on the Mochlos ring the goddess is sailing in a papyrus
float of Egyptian type, like the moon-goddess in her crescent moon.

The association of this early representative of Aphrodite with doves is of special interest
in view of Highnard's attempt ("Le Mythe de Venus," Annales du Musée Guimet, T. 1, 1880, p.
23) to derive the name of "la déesse à la colombe" from the Chaldean and Phœnician phrit or
phrut meaning "a dove".

Mr. Hall might have extended his list of homologues to Mesopotamia, Iran, and India, to Europe
and Further Asia, to America, and, in fact, every part of the world that harbours goddesses.]

[238: "Shells as Evidence of the Migration of Early Culture."]

[239: "The Ascent of Olympus."]

[240: A striking confirmation of the fact that the mandrake is really a surrogate of the cowry
is afforded by the practice in modern Greece of using the mandrake carried in a leather bag
in the same way (and for the same magical purpose as a love philtre) as the Baganda of East
Africa use the cowry (in a leather bag) at the present time.]

[241: Old Gerade was frank enough to admit that he "never could perceive shape of man or woman"
(quoted by Rendel Harris, op. cit., p. 110).]

[242: "Jacob and the Mandrakes," Proceedings of the British Academy, Vol. VIII, p. 22.]

[243: The John Rylands Library.]

[244: "The Ascent of Olympus."]

[245: See the memoirs by Tümpel, Jahn, Houssay, and Jackson, to which reference is made elsewhere
in these pages.]

[246: The well-known circumstantial story told in Hesiod's theogony.]

[247: See the article "Aphrodite" in Roscher's "Lexikon".]

[248: Sir James Frazer's claim that the incident of the ass in a late Jewish story of Jacob
and the mandrakes (op. cit., p. 20) "helps us to understand the function of the dog," is quite
unsupported. The learned guardian of the Golden Bough does not explain how it helps us to understand.]

The Search for the Elixir of Life. Blood as Life.

In delving into the remotely distant history of our species we cannot fail to be impressed
with the persistence with which, throughout the whole of his career, man (of the species sapiens)
has been seeking[249] for an elixir of life, to give added "vitality" to the dead (whose existence
was not consciously regarded as ended), to prolong the days of active life to the living, to
restore youth, and to protect his own life from all assaults, not merely of time, but also
of circumstance. In other words, the elixir he sought was something that would bring "good
luck" in all the events of his life and its continuation. Most of the amulets, even of modern
times, the lucky trinkets, the averters of the "Evil Eye," the practices and devices for securing
good luck in love and sport, in curing bodily ills or mental distress, in attaining material
prosperity, or a continuation of existence after death, are survivals of this ancient and persistent
striving after those objects which our earliest forefathers called collectively the "givers
of life".

From statements in the earliest literature[250] that has come down to us from antiquity, no
less than from the views that still prevail among the relatively more primitive peoples of
the present day, it is clear that originally man did not consciously formulate a belief in
immortality.

It was rather the result of a defect of thinking, or as the modern psychologist would express
it, an instinctive repression of the unpleasant idea that death would come to him personally,
that primitive man refused to contemplate or to entertain the possibility of life coming to
an end. So intense was his instinctive love of life and dread of such physical damage as would
destroy his body that man unconsciously avoided thinking of the chance of his own death: hence
his belief in the continuance of life cannot be regarded as the outcome of an active process
of constructive thought.

This may seem altogether paradoxical and incredible.

How, it may be asked, can man be said to repress the idea of death, if he instinctively refused
to admit its possibility? How did he escape the inevitable process of applying to himself the
analogy he might have been supposed to make from other men's experience and recognize that
he must die?

Man appreciated the fact that he could kill an animal or another man by inflicting certain
physical injuries on him. But at first he seems to have believed that if he could avoid such
direct assaults upon himself, his life would flow on unchecked. When death does occur and the
onlookers recognize the reality, it is still the practice among certain relatively primitive
people to search for the man who has inflicted death on his fellow.

It would, of course, be absurd to pretend that any people could fail to recognize the reality
of death in the great majority of cases. The mere fact of burial is an indication of this.
But the point of difference between the views of these early men and ourselves, was the tacit
assumption on the part of the former, that in spite of the obvious changes in his body (which
made inhumation or some other procedure necessary) the deceased was still continuing an existence
not unlike that which he enjoyed previously, only somewhat duller, less eventful and more precarious.
He still needed food and drink, as he did before, and all the paraphernalia of his mortal life,
but he was dependent upon his relatives for the maintenance of his existence.

Such views were difficult of acceptance by a thoughtful people, once they appreciated the fact
of the disintegration of the corpse in the grave; and in course of time it was regarded as
essential for continued existence that the body should be preserved. The idea developed, that
so long as the body of the deceased was preserved and there were restored to it all the elements
of vitality which it had lost at death, the continuance of existence was theoretically possible
and worthy of acceptance as an article of faith.

Let us consider for a moment what were considered to be elements of vitality by the earliest
members of our species.[251]

From the remotest times man seems to have been aware of the fact that he could kill animals
or his fellow men by means of certain physical injuries. He associated these results with the
effusion of blood. The loss of blood could cause unconsciousness and death. Blood, therefore,
must be the vehicle of consciousness and life, the material whose escape from the body could
bring life to an end.[252]

The first pictures painted by man, with which we are at present acquainted, are found upon
the walls and roofs of certain caves in Southern France and Spain. They were the work of the
earliest known representatives of our own species, Homo sapiens, in the phase of culture now
distinguished by the name "Aurignacian".

The animals man was in the habit of hunting for food are depicted.[253] In some of them arrows
are shown implanted in the animal's flank near the region of the heart; and in others the heart
itself is represented.

This implies that at this distant time in the history of our species, it was already realized
how vital a spot in the animal's anatomy the heart was. But even long before man began to speculate
about the functions of the heart, he must have learned to associate the loss of blood on the
part of man or animals with death, and to regard the pouring out of blood as the escape of
its vitality. Many factors must have contributed to the new advance in physiology which made
the heart the centre or the chief habitation of vitality, volition, feeling, and knowledge.

Not merely the empirical fact, acquired by experience in hunting, of the peculiarly vulnerable
nature of the heart, but perhaps also the knowledge that the heart contained life-giving blood,
helped in developing the ideas about its functions as the bestower of life and consciousness.

The palpitation of the heart after severe exertion or under the influence of intense emotion
would impress the early physiologist with the relationship of the heart to the feelings, and
afford confirmation of his earlier ideas of its functions.

But whatever the explanation, it is known from the folk-lore of even the most unsophisticated
peoples that the heart was originally regarded as the seat of life, feeling, volition, and
knowledge, and that the blood was the life-stream. The Aurignacian pictures in the caves of
Western Europe suggest that these beliefs were extremely ancient.

The evidence at our disposal seems to indicate that not only were such ideas of physiology
current in Aurignacian times, but also certain cultural applications of them had been inaugurated
even then. The remarkable method of blood-letting by chopping off part of a finger seems to
have been practised even in Aurignacian times.[254]

If it is legitimate to attempt to guess at the meaning these early people attached to so singular
a procedure, we may be guided by the ideas associated with this act in outlying corners of
the world at the present time. On these grounds we may surmise that the motive underlying this,
and other later methods of blood-letting, such as circumcision, piercing the ears, lips, and
tongue, gashing the limbs and body, et cetera, was the offering of the life-giving fluid.

Once it was recognized that the state of unconsciousness or death was due to the loss of blood
it was a not illogical or irrational procedure to imagine that offerings of blood might restore
consciousness and life to the dead.[255] If the blood was seriously believed to be the vehicle
of feeling and knowledge, the exchange of blood or the offering of blood to the community was
a reasonable method for initiating anyone into the wider knowledge of and sympathy with his
fellow-men.

Blood-letting, therefore, played a part in a great variety of ceremonies, of burial and of
initiation, and also those of a therapeutic[256] and, later, of a religious significance.

But from Aurignacian times onwards, it seems to have been admitted that substitutes for blood
might be endowed with a similar potency.

The extensive use of red ochre or other red materials for packing around the bodies of the
dead was presumably inspired by the idea that materials simulating blood-stained earth, were
endowed with the same life-giving properties as actual blood poured out upon the ground in
similar vitalizing ceremonies.

As the shedding of blood produced unconsciousness, the offering of blood or red ochre was,
therefore, a logical and practical means of restoring consciousness and reinforcing the element
of vitality which was diminished or lost in the corpse.

The common statement that primitive man was a fantastically irrational child is based upon
a fallacy. He was probably as well endowed mentally as his modern successors; and was as logical
and rational as they are; but many of his premises were wrong, and he hadn't the necessary
body of accumulated wisdom to help him to correct his false assumptions.

If primitive man regarded the dead as still existing, but with a reduced vitality, it was a
not irrational procedure on the part of the people of the Reindeer Epoch in Europe to pack
the dead in red ochre (which they regarded as a surrogate of the life-giving fluid) to make
good the lack of vitality in the corpse.

If blood was the vehicle of consciousness and knowledge, the exchange of blood was clearly
a logical procedure for establishing communion of thought and feeling and so enabling an initiate
to assimilate the traditions of his people.

If red carnelian was a surrogate of blood the wearing of bracelets or necklaces of this life-giving
material was a proper means of warding off danger to life and of securing good luck.

If red paint or the colour red brought these magical results, it was clearly justifiable to
resort to its use.

All these procedures are logical. It is only the premises that were erroneous.

The persistence of such customs in Ancient Egypt makes it possible for us to obtain literary
evidence to support the inferences drawn from archæological data of a more remote age. For
instance, the red jasper amulet sometimes called the "girdle-tie of Isis," was supposed to
represent the blood of the goddess and was applied to the mummy "to stimulate the functions
of his blood";[257] or perhaps it would be more accurate to say that it was intended to add
to the vital substance which was so obviously lacking in the corpse.

[249: In response to the prompting of the most fundamental of all instincts, that of the preservation
of life.]

[250: See Alan Gardiner, Journal of Egyptian Archæology, Vol. IV, Parts II-III, April-July,
1917, p. 205. Compare also the Babylonian story of Gilgamesh.]

[251: Some of these have been discussed in Chapter 1 ("Incense and Libations") and will not
be further considered here.]

[252: "The life which is the blood thereof" (Gen. ix. 4).]

[253: See, for example, Sollas, "Ancient Hunters," 2nd Edition, 1915, pp. 326 (fig. 163), 333
(fig. 171), and 36 (fig. 189).]

[254: Sollas, op. cit., pp. 347 et seq.]

[255: The "redeeming blood," [Greek: Pharmakon athanasias].]

[256: The practice of blood-letting for therapeutic purposes was probably first suggested by
a confused rationalization. The act of blood-letting was a means of healing; and the victim
himself supplied the vitalizing fluid!]

[257: Davies and Gardiner, "The Tomb of Amenemhet," p. 112.]

The Cowry as a Giver of Life.

Blood and its substitutes, however, were not the only materials that had acquired a reputation
for vitalizing qualities in the Reindeer Epoch. For there is a good deal of evidence to suggest
that shells also were regarded, even in that remote time, as life-giving amulets.

If the loss of blood was at first the only recognized cause of death, the act of birth was
clearly the only process of life-giving. The portal by which a child entered the world was
regarded, therefore, not only as the channel of birth, but also as the actual giver of life.[258]
The large Red Sea cowry-shell, which closely simulates this "giver of life," then came to be
endowed by popular imagination with the same powers. Hence the shell was used in the same way
as red ochre or carnelian: it was placed in the grave to confer vitality on the dead, and worn
on bracelets and necklaces to secure good luck by using the "giver of life" to avert the risk
of danger to life. Thus the general life-giving properties of blood, blood substitutes, and
shells, came to be assimilated the one with the other.[259]

At first it was probably its more general power of averting death or giving vitality to the
dead that played the more obtrusive part in the magical use of the shell. But the circumstances
which led to the development of the shell's symbolism naturally and inevitably conferred upon
the cowry special power over women. It was the surrogate of the life-giving organ. It became
an amulet to increase the fertility of women and to help them in childbirth. It was, therefore,
worn by girls suspended from a girdle, so as to be as near as possible to the organ it was
supposed to simulate and whose potency it was believed to be able to reinforce and intensify.
Just as bracelets and necklaces of carnelian were used to confer on either sex the vitalizing
virtues of blood, which it was supposed to simulate, so also cowries, or imitations of them
made of metal or stone, were worn as bracelets, necklaces, or hair-ornaments, to confer health
and good luck in both sexes. But these ideas received a much further extension.

As the giver of life, the cowry came to have attributed to it by some people definite powers
of creation. It was not merely an amulet to increase fertility: it was itself the actual parent
of mankind, the creator of all living things; and the next step was to give these maternal
functions material expression, and personify the cowry as an actual woman in the form of a
statuette with the distinctly feminine characters grossly exaggerated;[260] and in the domain
of belief to create the image of a Great Mother, who was the parent of the universe.

Thus gradually there developed out of the cowry-amulet the conception of a creator, the giver
of life, health, and good luck. This Great Mother, at first with only vaguely defined traits,
was probably the first deity that the wit of man devised to console him with her watchful care
over his welfare in this life and to give him assurance as to his fate in the future.

At this stage I should like to emphasize the fact that these beliefs had taken shape long before
any definite ideas had been formulated as to the physiology of animal reproduction and before
agriculture was practised.

Man had not yet come to appreciate the importance of vegetable fertility, nor had he yet begun
to frame theories of the fertilizing powers of water, or give specific expression to them by
creating the god Osiris in his own image.

Nor had he begun to take anything more than the most casual interest in the sun, the moon,
and the stars. He had not yet devised a sky-world nor created a heaven. When, for reasons that
I have already discussed,[261] the theory of the fertilizing and the animating power of water
was formulated, the beliefs concerning this element were assimilated with those which many
ages previously had grown up in explanation of the potency of blood and shells. In addition
to fertilizing the earth, water could also animate the dead. The rivers and the seas were in
fact a vast reservoir of this animating substance. The powers of the cowry, as a product of
the sea, were rationalized into an expression of the great creative force of the water.

A bowl of water became the symbol of the fruitfulness of woman. Such symbolism implied that
woman, or her uterus, was a receptacle into which the seminal fluid was poured and from which
a new being emerged in a flood of amniotic fluid.

The burial of shells with the dead is an extremely ancient practice, for cowries have been
found upon human skeletons of the so-called "Upper Palæolithic Age" of Southern Europe.

At Laugerie-Basse (Dordogne) Mediterranean cowries were found arranged in pairs upon the body;
two pairs on the forehead, one near each arm, four in the region of the thighs and knees, and
two upon each foot. Others were found in the Mentone caves, and are peculiarly important, because,
upon the same stratum as the skeleton with which they were associated, was found part of a
Cassis rufa, a shell whose habitat does not extend any nearer than the Indian Ocean.[262]

These facts are very important. In the first place they reveal the great antiquity of the practice
of burying shells with the dead, presumably for the purpose of "life-giving". Secondly, they
suggest the possibility that their magical value as givers of life may be more ancient than
their specific use as intensifiers of the fertility of women. Thirdly, the association of these
practices with the use of the shell Cassis rufa indicates a very early cultural contact between
the people living upon the North-Western shores of the Mediterranean in the Reindeer Age and
the dwellers on the coasts of the Indian Ocean; and the probability that these special uses
of shells by the former were inspired by the latter.

This hint assumes a special significance when we first get a clear view of the more fully-developed
shell-cults of the Eastern Mediterranean many centuries later.[263] For then we find definite
indications that the cultural uses of shells were obviously borrowed from the Erythræan area.

Long before the shell-amulet became personified as a woman the Mediterranean people had definitely
adopted the belief in the cowry's ability to give life and birth.

[258: As it is still called in the Semitic languages. In the Egyptian Pyramid Texts there is
a reference to a new being formed "by the vulva of Tefnut" (Breasted).]

[259: Many customs and beliefs of primitive peoples suggest that this correlation of the attributes
of blood and shells went much deeper than the similarity of their use in burial ceremonies
and for making necklaces and bracelets. The fact that the monthly effusion of blood in women
ceased during pregnancy seems to have given rise to the theory, that the new life of the child
was actually formed from the blood thus retained. The beliefs that grew up in explanation of
the placenta form part of the system of interpretation of these phenomena: for the placenta
was regarded as a mass of clotted blood (intimately related to the child which was supposed
to be derived from part of the same material) which harboured certain elements of the child's
mentality (because blood was the substance of consciousness).]

[260: See S. Reinach, "Les Déesses Nues dans l'Art Oriental et dans l'Art Grec," Revue Archéol.,
T. XXVI, 1895, p. 367. Compare also the figurines of the so-called Upper Palæolithic Period
in Europe.]

[261: Chapter I.]

[262: The literature relating to these important discoveries has been summarized by Wilfrid
Jackson in his "Shells as Evidence of the Migrations of Early Culture," pp. 135-7.]

[263: Cowries were obtained in Neolithic sites at Hissarlik and Spain (Siret, op. cit., p. 18).]

The Origin of Clothing.

The cowry and its surrogates were supposed to be potent to confer fertility on maidens; and
it became the practice for growing girls to wear a girdle on which to suspend the shells as
near as possible to the organ their magic was supposed to stimulate. Among many peoples[264]
this girdle was discarded as soon as the girls reached maturity.

This practice probably represents the beginning of the history of clothing; but it had other
far-reaching effects in the domain of belief.

It has often been claimed that the feeling of modesty was not the reason for the invention
of clothing, but that the clothes begat modesty.[265] This doctrine contains a certain element
of truth, but is by no means the whole explanation. For true modesty is displayed by people
who have never worn clothes.

Before mankind could appreciate the psychological fact that the wearing of clothing might add
to an individual's allurement and enhance her sexual attractiveness, some other circumstances
must have been responsible for suggesting the experiments out of which this empirical knowledge
emerged. The use of a girdle (a) as a protection against danger to life, and (b) as a means
of conferring fecundity on girls[266] provided the circumstances which enabled men to discover
that the sexual attractiveness of maidens, which in a state of nature was originally associated
with modesty and coyness, was profoundly intensified by the artifices of clothing and adornment.

Among people (such as those of East Africa and Southern Arabia) in which it was customary for
unmarried girls to adorn themselves with a girdle, it is easy to understand how the meaning
of the practice underwent a change, and developed into a device for enhancing their charms
and stimulating the imaginations of their suitors.

Out of such experience developed the idea of the magical girdle as an allurement and a love-provoking
charm or philtre. Thus Aphrodite's girdle acquired the reputation of being able to compel love.
When Ishtar removed her girdle in the under-world reproduction ceased in the world. The Teutonic
Brunhild's great strength lay in her girdle. In fact magic virtues were conferred upon most
goddesses in every part of the world by means of a cestus of some sort.[267] But the outstanding
feature of Aphrodite's character as a goddess of love is intimately bound up with these conceptions
which developed from the wearing of a girdle of cowries. The girdle of fig-leaves, however,
was originally a surrogate of the girdle of cowries: it was an amulet to give fertility. The
consciousness of nakedness was part of the knowledge acquired as the result of the wearing
of such girdles (and the clothing into which they developed), and was not originally the motive
that impelled our remote ancestors to clothe themselves.

The use of fig-leaves for the girdle in Palestine is an interesting connecting link between
the employment of the cowry and the mandrake for similar purposes in the neighbourhood of the
Red Sea and in Cyprus and Syria respectively (vide infra).

In Greece and Italy, the sweet basil has a reputation for magical properties analogous to those
of the cowry. Maidens collect the plant and wear bunches of it upon their body or upon their
girdles; while married women fix basil upon their heads.[268] It is believed that the odour
of the plant will attract admirers: hence in Italy it is called Bacia-nicola. "Kiss me, Nicholas".[269]

In Crete it is a sign of mourning presumably because its life-prolonging attributes, as a means
of conferring continued existence to the dead, have been so rationalized in explanation of
its use at funerals.

On New Year's day in Athens boys carry a boat and people remark, "St. Basil is come from Cæsarea".

[264: See Jackson, op. cit., pp. 139 et seq.]

[265: For a discussion of this subject see the chapter on "The Psychology of Modesty and Clothing,"
in William I. Thomas's "Sex and Society," Chicago, 1907; also S. Reinach, "Cults, Myths, and
Religions," p. 177; and Paton, "The Pharmakoi and the Story of the Fall," Revue Archéol., Serie
IV. T. IX, 1907, p. 51.]

[266: It is important to remember that shell-girdles were used by both sexes for general life-giving
and luck-bringing purposes, in the funerary ritual of both sexes, in animating the dead or
statues of the dead, to attain success in hunting, fishing, and head-hunting, as well as in
games. Thus men also at times wore shells upon their belts or aprons, and upon their implements
and fishing nets, and adorned their trophies of war and the chase with them. Such customs are
found in all the continents of the Old World and also in America, as, for example, in the girdles
of Conus- and Oliva-shells worn by the figures sculptured upon the Copan stelæ. See, for example,
Maudslay's pictures of stele N, Plate 82 (Biologia Centrali-Americana; Archæology) inter alia.
But they were much more widely used by women, not merely by maidens, but also by brides and
married women, to heighten their fertility and cure sterility, and by pregnant women to ensure
safe delivery in childbirth. It was their wider employment by women that gives these shells
their peculiar cultural significance.]

[267: Witness the importance of the girdle in early Indian and American sculptures: in the
literature of Egypt, Babylonia, Western Europe, and the Mediterranean area. For important Indian
analogies and Egyptian parallels see Moret, "Mystères Égyptiens," p. 91, especially note 3.
The magic girdle assumed a great variety of forms as the number of surrogates of the cowry
increased. The mugwort (Artemisia) of Artemis was worn in the girdle on St. John's Eve (Rendel
Harris, op. cit., p. 91): the people of Zante use vervain in the same way; the people of France
(Creuse et Corrères) rye-stalks; Eve's fig-leaves; in Vedic India the initiate wore the "cincture
of Munga's herbs"; and Kali had her girdle of hands. Breasted, ("Religion and Thought in Ancient
Egypt," p. 29) says: "In the oldest fragments we hear of Isis the great, who fastened on the
girdle in Khemmis, when she brought her [censer] and burned incense before her son Horus."]

[268: This distinction between the significance of the amulet when worn on the girdle and on
the head (in the hair), or as a necklace or bracelet, is very widespread. On the girdle it
usually has the significance of stimulating the individual's fertility: worn elsewhere it was
intended to ward off danger to life, i.e. to give good luck. An interesting surrogate of Hathor's
distinctive emblem is the necklace of golden apples worn by a priestess of Apollo (Rendel Harris,
op. cit., p. 42).]

[269: De Gubernatis, "Mythologie des Plantes," Vol. II, p. 35.]

Pearls.

During the chequered history of the Great Mother the attributes of the original shell-amulet
from which the goddess was sprung were also changing and being elaborated to fit into a more
complex scheme. The magical properties of the cowry came to be acquired by other Red Sea shells,
such as Pterocera, the pearl oyster, conch shells, and others. Each of these became intimately
associated with the moon.[270] The pearls found in the oysters were supposed to be little moons,
drops of the moon-substance (or dew) which fell from the sky into the gaping oyster. Hence
pearls acquired the reputation of "shining by night," like the moon from which they were believed
to have come: and every surrogate of the Great Mother, whether plant, animal, mineral or mythical
instrument, came to be endowed with the power of "shining by night". But pearls were also regarded
as the quintessence of the shell's life-giving properties, which were considered to be all
the more potent because they were sky-given emanations of the moon-goddess herself. Hence pearls
acquired the reputation of being the "givers of life" par excellence, an idea which found literal
expression in the ancient Persian word margan (from mar, "giver" and gan, "life"). This word
has been borrowed in all the Turanian languages (ranging from Hungary to Kamskatckha), but
also in the non-Turanian speech of Western Asia, thence through Greek and Latin (margarita)
to European languages.[271] The same life-giving attributes were also acquired by the other
pearl-bearing shells; and at some subsequent period, when it was discovered that some of these
shells could be used as trumpets, the sound produced was also believed to be life-giving or
the voice of the great Giver of Life. The blast of the trumpet was also supposed to be able
to animate the deity and restore his consciousness, so that he could attend to the appeals
of supplicants. In other words the noise woke up the god from his sleep. Hence the shell-trumpet
attained an important significance in early religious ceremonials for the ritual purpose of
summoning the deity, especially in Crete and India, and ultimately in widely distant parts
of the world.[272] Long before these shells are known to have been used as trumpets, they were
employed like the other Red Sea shells as "givers of life" to the dead in Egypt. Their use
as trumpets was secondary.

And when it was discovered that purple dye could be obtained from certain of the trumpet-shells,
the colouring-matter acquired the same life-giving powers as had already been conferred upon
the trumpet and the pearls: thus it became regarded as a divine substance and as the exclusive
property of gods and kings.

Long before, the colour red had acquired magic potency as a surrogate of life-giving blood;
and this colour-symbolism undoubtedly helped in the development of the similar beliefs concerning
purple.

[270: For the details see Jackson, op. cit., pp. 57-69. Both the shells and the moon were identified
with the Great Mother. Hence they were homologized the one with the other.]

[271: Dr. Mingana has given me the following note: "It is very probable that the Græco-Latin
margarita, the Aramæo-Syriac margarita, the Arabic margan, and the Turanian margan are derived
from the Persian mar-gân, meaning both 'pearl' and 'life,' or etymologically 'giver, owner,
or possessor, of life'. The word gān, in Zend yān, is thoroughly Persian and is undoubtedly
the original form of this expression."]

[272: See Chapter II of Jackson's book, op. cit.]

Sharks and Dragons.

When the life-giving attributes of water were confused with the same properties with which
shells had independently been credited long before, the shell's reputation was rationalized
as an expression of the vital powers of the ocean in which the mollusc was born. But the same
explanation was also extended to include fishes, and other denizens of the water, as manifestations
of similar divine powers. In the lecture on "Dragons and Rain Gods" I referred to the identification
of Ea, the Babylonian Osiris, with a fish (p. 105). When the value of the pearl as the giver
of life impelled men to incur any risks to obtain so precious an amulet, the chief dangers
that threatened pearl-fishers were due to sharks. These came to be regarded as demons guarding
the treasure-houses at the bottom of the sea. Out of these crude materials the imaginations
of the early pearl-fishers created the picture of wonderful submarine palaces of Nâga kings
in which vast wealth, not merely of pearls, but also of gold, precious stones, and beautiful
maidens (all of them "givers of life," vide infra, p. 224), were placed under the protection
of shark-dragons.[273] The conception of the pearl (which is a surrogate of the life-giving
Great Mother) guarded by dragons is linked by many bonds of affinity with early Erythræan and
Mediterranean beliefs. The more usual form of the story, both in Southern Arabian legend and
in Minoan and Mycenæan art, represents the Mother Goddess incarnate in a sacred tree or pillar
with its protecting dragons in the form of serpents or lions, or a variety of dragon-surrogates,
either real animals, such as deer or cattle, or composite monsters (Fig. 26).[274]

There are reasons for believing that these stories were first invented somewhere on the shores
of the Erythræan Sea, probably in Southern Arabia. The animation of the incense-tree by the
Great Mother, for the reasons which I have already expounded,[275] formed the link of her identification
with the pearl, which probably acquired its magical reputation in the same region.

"In the Persian myth, the white Haoma is a divine tree, growing in the lake Vourukasha: the
fish Khar-mâhi circles protectingly around it and defends it against the toad Ahriman. It gives
eternal life, children to women, husbands to girls, and horses to men. In the Minôkhired the
tree is called 'the preparer of the corpse'" (Spiegel, "Eran. Altertumskunde," II, 115--quoted
by Jung, "Psychology of the Unconscious," p. 532). The idea of guarding the divine tree[276]
by dragons was probably the result of the transference to that particular surrogate of the
Great Mother of the shark-stories which originated from the experiences of the seekers after
pearls, her other representatives.

There are many other bits of corroborative evidence to suggest that these shell-cults and the
legends derived from them were actually transmitted from the Red Sea to the Eastern Mediterranean.
Nor is it surprising that this should have happened, when it is recalled that Egyptian sailors
were trafficking in both seas long before the Pyramid Age, and no doubt carried the beliefs
and the legends of one region to the other. I have already referred to the adoption in the
Mediterranean area of the idea of the dragon-protectors of the tree- and pillar-forms of the
Great Mother, and suggested that this was merely a garbled version of the pearl-fisher's experience
of the dangers of attacks by sharks. But the same legends also reached the Levant in a less
modified form, and then underwent another kind of transformation (and confusion with the tree-version)
in Cyprus or Syria.

As the shark would be a not wholly appropriate actor in the Mediterranean, its rôle is taken
by its smaller Selachian relative, the dog-fish. In the notes on Pliny's Natural History, Dr.
Bostock and Mr. H. T. Riley[277] refer to the habits of dog-fishes ("Canes marini"), and quote
from Procopius ("De Bell. Pers." B. I, c. 4) the following "wonderful story in relation to
this subject": "Sea-dogs are wonderful admirers of the pearl-fish, and follow them out to sea....
A certain fisherman, having watched for the moment when the shell-fish was deprived of the
attention of its attendant sea-dog, ... seized the shell-fish and made for the shore. The sea-dog,
however, was soon aware of the theft, and making straight for the fisherman, seized him. Finding
himself thus caught, he made a last effort, and threw the pearl-fish on shore, immediately
on which he was torn to pieces by its protector."[278]

Though the written record of this story is relatively modern the incident thus described probably
goes back to much more ancient times. It is only a very slightly modified version of an ancient
narrative of a shark's attack upon a pearl-diver.

For reasons which I shall discuss in the following pages, the rôle of the cowry and pearl as
representatives of the Great Mother was in the Levant assumed by the mandrake, just as we have
already seen the Southern Arabian conception of her as a tree adopted in Mycenæan lands. Having
replaced the sea-shell by a land plant it became necessary, in adapting the legend, to substitute
for the "sea-dog" some land animal. Not unnaturally it became a dog. Thus the story of the
dangers incurred in the process of digging up a mandrake assumed the well-known form.[279]
The attempt to dig up the mandrake was said to be fraught with great danger. The traditional
means of circumventing these risks has been described by many writers, ancient and modern,
and preserved in the folk-lore of most European and western Asiatic countries. The only discrepancy
between the two stories is the point to which Josephus calls specific attention. For instead
of the dog killing the thief, as the shark (dog-fish) kills the stealer of pearls, the dog
becomes the victim as a substitute for the man. As Josephus remarks, "the dog dies immediately,
as it were, instead of the man that would take the plant away". This distortion of the story
is true to the traditions of legend-making. The dog-incident is so twisted as to be transformed
into a device for plucking the dangerous plant without risk.

It is quite possible that earlier associations of the dog with the Great Mother may have played
some part in this transference of meaning, if only by creating confusion which made such rationalization
necessary. I refer to the part played by Anubis in helping Isis to collect the fragments of
Osiris; and the rôle played by Anubis, and his Greek avatar Cerberus, in the world of the dead.
Whether the association of the dog-star Sirius with Hathor had anything to do with the confusion
is uncertain.[281]

There was an intimate association of the dog with the goddess of the under-world (Hecate) and
the ritual of rebirth of the dead.[282] Perhaps the development of the story of the underworld-goddess
Aphrodite's dog and the mandrake may have been helped by this survival of the association of
Isis with Anubis, even if there is not a more definite causal relationship between the dog-incidents
in the various legends.

The divine dog Anubis is frequently represented in connexion with the ritual of rebirth,[283]
where it is shown upon a standard in association with the placenta. The hieroglyphic sign for
the Egyptian word mes, "to give birth," consists of the skins of three dogs (or jackals, or
foxes). The three-headed dog Cerberus that guarded the portal of Hades may possibly be a distorted
survival of this ancient symbolism of the three-fold dog-skin as the graphic sign for the act
of emergence from the portal of birth. Elsewhere (p. 223) in this lecture I have referred to
Charon's obolus as a surrogate of the life-giving pearl or cowry placed in the mouth of the
dead to provide "vital substance". Rohde[284] regards Charon as the second Cerberus, corresponding
to the Egyptian dog-faced god Anubis: just as Charon received his obolus, so in Attic custom
the dead were provided with [Greek: melitoutia] the object of which is usually said to be to
pacify the dog of hell.

What seems to link all these fantastic beliefs and customs with the story of the dog and the
mandrake is the fact that they are closely bound up with the conception of the dog as the guardian
of hidden treasure.

The mandrake story may have arisen out of a mingling of these two streams of legend--the shark
(dog-fish) protecting the treasures at the bottom of the sea, and the ancient Egyptian beliefs
concerning the dog-headed god who presides at the embalmer's operations and superintends the
process of rebirth.

The dog of the story is a representative of the dragon guarding the goddess in the form of
the mandrake, just as the lions over the gate at Mycenæ heraldically support her pillar-form,
or the serpents in Southern Arabia protect her as an incense tree. Dog, Lion, and Serpent in
these legends are all representatives of the goddess herself, i.e. merely her own avatars (Fig.
26).

At one time I imagined that the rôle of Anubis as a god of embalming and the restorer of the
dead was merely an ingenuous device on the part of the early Egyptians to console themselves
for the depredations of jackals in their cemeteries. For if the jackal were converted into
a life-giving god it would be a comforting thought to believe that the dead man, even though
devoured, was "in the bosom of his god" and thereby had attained a rebirth in the hereafter.
In ancient Persia corpses were thrown out for the dogs to devour. There was also the custom
of leading a dog to the bed of a dying man who presented him with food, just as Cerberus was
given honey-cakes by Hercules in his journey to hell. But I have not been able to obtain any
corroboration of this supposition. It is a remarkable coincidence that the Great Mother has
been identified with the necrophilic vulture as Mut; and it has been claimed by some writers[285]
that, just as the jackal was regarded as a symbol of rebirth in Egypt and the dead were exposed
for dogs to devour in Persia, so the vulture's corpse-devouring habits may have been primarily
responsible for suggesting its identification with the Great Mother and for the motive behind
the Indian practice of leaving the corpses of the dead for the vultures to dispose of.[286]
It is not uncommon to find, even in English cathedrals, recumbent statues of bishops with dogs
as footstools. Petronius ("Sat.," c. 71) makes the following statement: "valde te rogo, ut
secundum pedes statuae meae catellam pingas--ut mihi contingat tuo beneficio post mortem vivere".[287]
The belief in the dog's service as a guide to the dead ranges from Western Europe to Peru.

To return to the story of the dog and the mandrake: no doubt the demand will be made for further
evidence that the mandrake actually assumed the rôle of the pearl in these stories. If the
remarkable repertory of magical properties assigned to the mandrake[288] be compared with those
which developed in connexion with the cowry and the pearl,[289] it will be found that the two
series are identical. The mandrake also is the giver of life, of fertility to women, of safety
in childbirth; and like the cowry and the pearl it exerts these magical influences only if
it be worn in contact with the wearer's skin.[290] But the most definite indication of the
mandrake's homology with the pearl is provided by the legend that "it shines by night". Some
scholars,[291] both ancient and modern, have attempted to rationalize this tradition by interpreting
it as a reference to the glow-worms that settle on the plant! But it is only one of many attributes
borrowed by the mandrake from the pearl, which was credited with this remarkable reputation
only when early scientists conceived the hypothesis that the gem was a bit of moon substance.

As the memory of the real history of these beliefs grew dim, confusion was rapidly introduced
into the stories. I have already explained how the diving for pearls started the story of the
great palace of treasures under the waters which was guarded by dragons. As the pearl had the
reputation of shining by night, it is not surprising that it or some of its surrogates should
in course of time come to be credited with the power of "revealing hidden treasures," the treasures
which in the original story were the pearls themselves. Thus the magic fern-seed and other
treasure-disclosing vegetables[292] are surrogates of the mandrake, and like it derive their
magical properties directly or indirectly from the pearl.

The fantastic story of the dog and the mandrake provides the most definite evidence of the
derivation of the mandrake-beliefs from the shell-cults of the Erythræan Sea. There are many
other scraps of evidence to corroborate this. I shall refer here only to one of these. "The
discovery of the art of purple-dyeing has been attributed to the Tyrian tutelary deity Melkart,
who is identified with Baal by many writers. According to Julius Pollux ('Onomasticon,' I,
iv.) and Nonnus ('Dionys.,' XL, 306) Hercules (Melkart) was walking on the seashore accompanied
by his dog and a Tyrian nymph, of whom he was enamoured. The dog having found a Murex with
its head protruding from its shell, devoured it, and thus its mouth became stained with purple.
The nymph, on seeing the beautiful colour, bargained with Hercules to provide her with a robe
of like splendour."[293] This seems to be another variant of the same story.

[273: In Eastern Asia (see, for example, Shinji Nishimura, "The Hisago-Bune," Tokio, 1918,
published by the Tokio Society of Naval Architects, p. 18, where the dragon is identified with
the wani, which can be either a crocodile or a shark); in Oceania (L. Frobenius, "Das Zeitalter
des Sonnengottes," Bd. I., 1904, and C. E. Fox and F. H. Drew, "Beliefs and Tales of San Cristoval,"
Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute, Vol. XLV, 1915, p. 140); and in America (see
Thomas Gann, "Mounds in Northern Honduras," Nineteenth Annual Report of the Bureau of American
Ethnology, 1897-8, Part II, p. 661) the dragon assumes the form of a shark, a crocodile, or
a variety of other animals.]

[274: Sir Arthur Evans, "Mycenæan Tree and Pillar Cult," op. cit. supra: W. Hayes Ward, "The
Seal Cylinders of Western Asia," op. cit.: and Robertson Smith, "The Religion of the Semites,"
p. 133: "In Hadramant it is still dangerous to touch the sensitive mimosa, because the spirit
that resides in the plant will avenge the injury". When men interfere with the incense trees
it is reported: "the demons of the place flew away with doleful cries in the shape of white
serpents, and the intruders died soon afterwards".]

[275: Vide supra, p. 38.]

[276: In Western mythology the dragon guarding the fruit-bearing tree of life is also identified
with the Mother of Mankind (Campbell, "Celtic Dragon Myth," pp. xli and 18). Thus the tree
and its defender are both surrogates of the Great Mother. When Eve ate the apple from the tree
of Paradise she was committing an act of cannibalism, for the plant was only another form of
herself. Her "sin" consisted in aspiring to attain the immortality which was the exclusive
privilege of the gods. This incident is analogous to that found in the Indian tales where mortals
steal the amrita. By Eve's sin "death came into the world" for the paradoxical reason that
she had eaten the food of the gods which gives immortality. The punishment meted out to her
by the Almighty seems to have been to inhibit the life-giving and birth-facilitating action
of the fruit of immortality, so that she and all her progeny were doomed to be mortal and to
suffer the pangs of child-bearing.

There was a widespread belief among the ancients that ceremonies in connexion with the gods
must (to be efficacious) be done in the reverse of the usual human way (Hopkins, "Religions
of India," p. 201). So also an act which gives immortality to the gods, brings death to man.

The full realization of the fact that man was mortal imposed upon the early theologians the
necessity of explaining the immortality of the gods. The elixir of life was the food of the
gods that conferred eternal life upon them. By one of those paradoxes so dear to the maker
of myths this same elixir brought death to man.]

[277: Bohn's Edition, 1855, Vol. II, p. 433.]

[278: A Cretan scene depicts a man attacking a dog-headed sea-monster (Mackenzie, op. cit.,
"Myths of Crete," p. 139).]

[279: A number of versions of this widespread fable have been collected by Dr. Rendel Harris
(op. cit.) and Sir James Frazer (op. cit.). I quote here from the former (p. 118).]

[280: Josephus, "Bell. Jud.," VII, 6, 3, quoted by Rendel Harris, op. cit., p. 118.]

[281: The dog-star became associated with Hathor for reasons which are explained on p. 209.
It was "the opener of the Way" for the birth of the sun and the New Year.]

[282: When Artemis acquired the reputation as a huntress and her deer became her quarry the
dog was rationalized into the new scheme.]

[283: See, for example, Moret's "Mystères Égyptiens," pp. 77-80.]

[284: "Psyche," p. 244.]

[285: See, for example, Jung, op. cit., p. 268.]

[286: Nekhebit, the Egyptian Vulture goddess, was identified by the Greeks with Eileithyia,
the goddess of birth (Wiedemann, "Religion of the Ancient Egyptians," p. 141). She was usually
represented as a vulture hovering over the king. Her place can be taken by the falcon of Horus
or in the Babylonian story of Etana by the eagle. It is maintained that pearls "lose their
lustre" unless they are worn in contact with the skin. This of course is a pure myth, but also
an illuminating survival.]

[291: See Frazer, op. cit., p. 16, especially the references to the "devil's candle" and "the
lamp of the elves".]

[292: Rendel Harris, op. cit., p. 113: Other factors played a part in the development of this
legend of opening up treasure-houses. Both Artemis and Hecate are associated with a magical
plant capable of opening locks and helping the process of birth. Artemis is a goddess of the
portal and her life-giving symbol in a multitude of varied forms is found appropriately placed
above the lintel of doors.]

[293: Jackson, op. cit., p. 195.]

The Octopus.

Aphrodite was associated not only with the cowry, the pearl, and the mandrake, but also with
the octopus, the argonaut, and other cephalopods. Tümpel seems to imagine that the identification
of the goddess with the argonaut and the octopus necessarily excludes her association with
molluscs; and Dr. Rendel Harris attributes an equally exclusive importance to the mandrake.
But in such methods of argument due recognition is not given to the outstanding fact in the
history of primitive beliefs. The early philosophers built up their great generalizations in
the same way as their modern successors. They were searching for some explanation of, or a
working hypothesis to include, most diverse natural phenomena within a concise scheme. The
very essence of such attempts was the institution of a series of homologies and fancied analogies
between dissimilar objects. Aphrodite was at one and the same time the personification of the
cowry, the conch shell, the purple shell, the pearl, the lotus, and the lily, the mandrake
and the bryony, the incense tree and the cedar, the octopus and the argonaut, the pig, and the cow.

Every one of these identifications is the result of a long and chequered history, in which
fancied resemblances and confusion of meaning play a very large part. But I cannot too strongly
repudiate the claim made by Sir James Frazer that such events are merely so many evidences
of the innate human tendency to personify nature. The history of the arbitrary circumstances
that were responsible for the development of each one of these homologies is entirely fatal
to this wholly unwarranted speculation.[294] Tümpel claims[295] the Aphrodite was associated
more especially with "a species of Sepia". He refers to the attempts to associate the goddess
of love with amulets of univalvular shells "in virtue of a certain peculiar and obscene symbolism".[296]
Naturalists, however, designate with the term Venus Cytherea certain gaping bivalve molluscs.

But, according to Tümpel (p. 386), neither univalvular nor bivalve shells can be regarded as
a real part of the goddess's cultural equipment. There is no representation of Aphrodite coming
in a shell from across the sea.[297] The truly sacred Aphrodite-shell was entirely different,
so Tümpel believes: it was obviously difficult to preserve, but for that reason more worthy
of notice, for the small [Greek: choirinai] (pectines), virginalia marina (Apuleius de mag.
34, 35, and in reference thereto, Isidor. origg. 9, 5, 24) or spuria ([Greek: sporia]) were
only the commoner and more readily obtained surrogates: the univalvular shells.

([Greek: monothyra] of Aristotle), such as those just mentioned, and the other [Greek: ostrea]
of Aphrodite, the Nerites (periwinkles, etc.), the purple shell and the Echineïs were also
real Veneriae conchae. Among the Nerites Aelian enumerates (N.A. 14, 28): [Greek: Aphroditên
de syndiaitômenên en tê thalattê hêsthênai te tô Nêritê tôde kai echein auton philon]. On account
of their supposed medicinal value in cases of abortion and especially as a prophylactic for
pregnant women the [Greek: Echenêis] (pure Latin re[mi]mora) was called [Greek: ôdinolytê][298]
(Pliny, 32, 1, 5: pisciculus!). According to Mutianus (Pliny, 9, 25 (41), 79 f.), it was a
species of purple shell, but larger than the true Murex purpura. From this the sanctity of
the Echineïs to the Cnidian Aphrodite is demonstrated: "quibus (conchis) inhaerentibus plenam
ventis stetisse navem portantem Periandro, ut castrarentur nobilis pueros, conchasque, quae
id praestiterint, apud Cnidiorum Venerem coli" (Pliny).

Tümpel then (p. 387) accuses Stephani of being mistaken in his interpretation of Martial's
Cytheriacae (Epign. II, 47, 1 = purple shells) as the amulets of Aphrodite, and claims that
Jahn has given the correct solution of the following passages from Pliny (N.H., 9, 33 [52],
103, compare 32, 11 [53]): "navigant ex his (conchis) veneriae, praebentesque concavam sui
partem et aurae opponentes per summa aequorum velificant"; and further (9, 30[49], 94): "in
Propontide concham esse acatii modo carinatam inflexa puppe, prora rostrata, in hac condi nauplium
animal saepiae simile ludendi societate sola, duobus hoc fieri generibus: tranquillum enim
vectorem demissis palmulis ferire ut remis; si vero flatus invitet, easdem in usu gubernaculi
porrigi pandique buccarum sinus aurae".

Tümpel claims (pp. 387 and 388) that this quotation settles the question. Aphrodite's "shell,"
according to him, is the Nauplius (depicted as a shell-fish, with its sail-like palmulæ spread
out to the wind, but with the same sails flattened into plate-like arms for steering), clearly
"a species of Sepia," wholly like Aphrodite herself, a ship-like shell-fish sailing over the
surface of the water, the concha veneria. [The analogy to a ship bearing the Great Mother is
extremely ancient and originally referred to the crescent moon carrying the moon-goddess across
the heavenly ocean.]

Elsewhere (p. 399) he discusses the reasons for the connexion of Aphrodite with the "nautilus,"
by which is meant the argonaut of zoologists.

But if Jahn and Tümpel have thus clearly established the proof of the intimate association
of Aphrodite with certain cephalopods, they are wholly unjustified in the assumption that their
quotations from relatively modern authors disprove the reality of the equally close (though
more ancient) relationship of the goddess to the cowry, the pearl-shell, the trumpet-shell,
and the purple-shell.

It must not be forgotten that, as we have already seen, the primitive shell-cults of the Erythræan
Sea had been diffused throughout the Mediterranean area long before Aphrodite was born upon
the shores of the Levant, and possibly before Hathor came into existence in the south. The
use of the cowry and gold models of the cowry goes back to an early time in Ægean history.[299]
And the influence of Aphrodite's early associations had become blurred and confused by the
development of new links with other shells and their surrogates.

But the connexion of Aphrodite with the octopus and its kindred played a very obtrusive part
in Minoan and Mycenæan art; and its influence was spread abroad as far as Western Europe[300]
and towards the East as far as America. In many ways it was a factor in the development of
such artistic designs as the spiral and the volute, and not improbably also of the swastika.

Starting from the researches of Tümpel, a distinguished French zoologist, Dr. Frédéric Houssay,[301]
sought to demonstrate that the cult of Aphrodite was "based upon a pre-existing zoological
philosophy". The argument in support of his claim that Aphrodite was a personification of the
octopus must be sharply differentiated into two parts: first, the reality of the association
of the octopus with the goddess, of which there can be no doubt; and secondly, his explanation
of it, which (however popular it may be with classical writers and modern scholars)[302] is
not only a gratuitous assumption, but also, even if it were based upon more valid evidence
than the speculations of such recent writers as Pliny, would not really carry the explanation
very far.

I refer to his claim that "les premiers conquérants de la mer furent induits en vénération
du poulpe nageur (octopus) parce qu'ils crurent que quelque-uns de ces céphalopodes, les poulpes
sacrés (argonauta) avaient, comme eux et avant eux, inventé la navigation" (op. cit., p. 15).
Idle fancies of this sort do not help us to understand the arbitrary beliefs concerning the
magical powers of the octopus.

The real problem we have to solve is to discover why, among all the multitude of bizarre creatures
to be found in the Mediterranean Sea, the octopus and its allies should thus have been singled
out for distinctive appreciation, and also acquired the same remarkable attributes as the cowry.

I believe that the Red Sea "Spider shell," Pterocera,[303] was the link between the cowry and
the octopus. This shell was used, like the cowry, for funerary purposes in Egypt and as a trumpet
in India.[304] But it was also depicted upon a series of remarkable primitive statues of the
god Min, which were found at Coptos during the winter 1893-4 by Professor Flinders Petrie.[305]
Some of these objects are now in the Cairo Museum and the others in the Ashmolean Museum in
Oxford. They are supposed to be late predynastic representations of the god Min. If this supposition
is correct they are the earliest idols (apart from mere amulets) that have been preserved from
antiquity.

Upon these statues, representations of the Red Sea shell Pterocera bryonia are sculptured in
low relief. Mr. F. Ll. Griffith is disinclined to accept my suggestion that the object of these
pictures of the shell was to animate the statues. But whether this was their purpose or not,
it is probably not without some significance that these life-giving shells were associated
with so obtrusively phallic a deity as Min. In any case they afford concrete evidence of cultural
contact between Coptos and the Red Sea, and indicate that these particular shells were chosen
as symbols of that sea or its coast.

The distinctive feature of the Pterocera is that the mantle in the adult expands into a series
of long finger-like processes each of which secretes a calcareous process or "claw". There
are seven[306] of these claws as well as the long columella (Fig. 5). Hence, when the shell-cults
were diffused from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean (where the Pterocera is not found), it
is quite likely that the people of the Levant may have confused with the octopus some sailor's
account of the eight-rayed shell (or perhaps representations of it on some amulet or statue).
Whether this is the explanation of the confusion or not, it is certain that the beliefs associated
with the cowry and the octopus in the Ægean area are identical with those linked up with the
cowry and the Pterocera in the Red Sea.

I have already mentioned that the mandrake is believed to possess the same magical powers.
Sir James Frazer has called attention to the fact that in Armenia the bryony (Bryonia alba)
is a surrogate of the mandrake and is credited with the same attributes.[307] Lovell Reeve
("Conchologia Iconica," VI, 1851) refers to the Red Sea Pterocera as the "Wild Vine Root" species,
previously known as Strombus radix bryoniae; and Chemnitz ("Conch. Cab.," 1788, Vol. X, p.
227) says the French call it "Racine de brione femelle imparfaite," and refer to it as "the
maiden". Here then is further evidence that this shell (a) was associated in some way with
a surrogate of the mandrake (Aphrodite), and (b) was regarded as a maiden. Thus clearly it
has a place in the chequered history of Aphrodite. I have suggested the possibility of its
confusion with the octopus, which may have led to the inclusion of the latter within the scope
of the marine creatures in Aphrodite's cultural equipment. According to Matthioli (Lib. 2,
p. 135), another of Aphrodite's creatures, the purple shell-fish, was also known as "the maiden".
By Pliny it is called Pelogia, in Greek [Greek: porphyra]; and [Greek: porphyrômata] was the
term applied to the flesh of swine that had been sacrificed to Ceres and Proserpine (Hesych.).
In fact, the purple-shell was "the maiden" and also "the sow": in other words it was Aphrodite.
The use of the term "maiden" for the Pterocera suggests a similar identification. To complete
this web of proof it may be noted that an old writer has called the mandrake the plant of Circe,
the sorceress who turned men into swine by a magic draught.[308] Thus we have a series of shells,
plants, and marine creatures accredited with identical magical properties, and each of them
known in popular tradition as "the maiden". They are all culturally associated with Aphrodite.

I shall have occasion (infra, p. 177) to refer to M. Siret's account of the discovery of the
Ægean octopus-motif upon Æneolithic objects in Spain, and of the widespread use in Western
Europe of certain conventional designs derived from the octopus. M. Siret also (see the table,
Fig. 6, on p. 34 of his book) makes the remarkable claim that the conventional form of the
Egyptian Bes, which, according to Quibell,[309] is the god whose function it is to preside
over sexual intercourse in its purely physical aspect, is derived from the octopus. If this
is true--and I am bound to admit that it is far from being proved--it suggests that the Red
Sea littoral may have been the place of origin of the cultural use of the octopus and an association
with Hathor, for Bes and Hathor are said to have been introduced into Egypt from there.[310]

That the octopus was actually identified with the Great Mother and also with the dragon is
revealed by the fact of the latter assuming an octopus-form in Eastern Asia and Oceania, and
by the occurrence of octopus-motifs in the representation of the goddess in America. One of
the most remarkable series of pictures depicting the Great Mother is found sculptured in low
relief upon a number of stone slabs from Manabi in Central America,[311] one of which I reproduce
here (Fig. 21b). The head of the goddess is a conventionalized octopus; to that was added a
body consisting of a Loligo; and, to give greater definiteness to this remarkable process of
building up the form of the goddess, conventional representations of her arms and legs (and
in some of the sculptures also the pudendum muliebre) were added. Thus there can be no doubt
of the identification of this American Aphrodite and the octopus.

In the Polynesian Rata-myth there is a very instructive series of manifestations of the dragon.[312]
The first form assumed by the monster in this story was a gaping shell-fish of enormous size;
then it appeared as a mighty octopus; and lastly, as a whale, into whose jaws the hero Nganaoa
sprang, as his representatives are said to have done elsewhere throughout the world (Frobenius,
op. cit., pp. 59-219).

Houssay (op. cit. infra) calls attention to the fact that at times Astarte was shown carrying
an octopus as her emblem,[313] and has suggested that it was mistaken for a hand, just as in
America the thunderbolt of Chac was given a hand-like form in the Dresden Codex (vide supra.
Fig. 13), and elsewhere (e.g. Fig. 12).

If this suggestion should prove to be well founded it would provide a more convincing explanation
of the girdle of hands worn by the Indian goddess Kali[314] than that usually given. If the
"hands" really represent surrogates of the cowry, the wearing of such a girdle brings the Indian
goddess into line, not only with Astarte and Aphrodite, but also with the East African maidens
who still wear the girdle of cowries. Kali's exploits were in many respects identical with
those of the bloodthirsty Sekhet-manifestation of the Egyptian goddess Hathor. Just as Sekhet
had to be restrained by Re for her excess of zeal in murdering his foes, so Siva had to intervene
with Kali upon the battlefield flooded with gore (as also in the Egyptian story) to spare the
remnant of his enemies.[315]

[294: Sir James Frazer, "Jacob and the Mandrakes," Proc. Brit. Academy.]

[295: K. Tümpel, "Die 'Muschel der Aphrodite,'" Philologus, Zeitschrift für das Classische
Alterthum, Bd. 51, 1892, p. 385: compare also, with reference to the "Muschel der Aphrodite,"
O. Jahn, SB. d. k. Sächs. G. d. W., VII, 1853, p. 16 ff.; also IX, 1855, p. 80; and Stephani,
Compte rendu pour l'an 1870-71, p. 17 ff.]

[296: See Jahn, op. cit., 1855, T. V, 6, and T. IV, 8: figures of the so-called [Greek: Choirinai]
(from [Greek: Choiros] in the double sense as "pig" and "the female pudendum"): Aristophanes,
Eq. 1147; Vesp. 332; Pollux, 8, 16; Hesch. s.v.]

[297: The fact that no graphic representation of this event has been found is surely a wholly
inadequate reason for refusing to credit the story. Very few episodes in the sacred history
of the gods received concrete expression in pictures or sculptures until relatively late. A
Hellenistic representation of the goddess emerging from a bivalve was found in Southern Russia
(Minns, "Scythians and Greeks," p. 345).

Tümpel cites the following statements: "te (Venus) ex concha natam esse autumant: cave tu harum
conchas spernas!" Tibull. 3, 3, 24: "et faveas concha, Cypria, vecta tua"; Statius Silv. 1,
2, 117: Venus to Violentilla, "haec et caeruleïs mecum consurgere digna fluctibus et nostra
potuit considere concha"; Fulgent. myth. 2, 4 "concha etiam marina pingitur (Venus) portari
(I. HS:--am portare)"; Paulus Diacon. p. 52, "M. Cytherea Venus ab urbe Cythera, in quam primum
devecta esse dicitur concha, cum in mari esset concepta cet".]

[298: From [Greek: ôdino]--"to have the pains of childbirth".]

[299: See Schliemann, "Ilios," p. 455; and Siret, op. cit.]

[300: Siret, op. cit. supra, p. 59.]

[301: "Les Théories de la Genèse à Mycènes et le sens zoologique de certains symboles du culte
d'Aphrodite," Revue Archéologique, 3^ie série, T. XXVI, 1895, p. 13.]

[302: It was adduced also by Tümpel and others before him.]

[303: or Pteroceras.]

[304: Jackson, op. cit., p. 38.]

[305: "Koptos," pp. 7-9, Pls. III. and IV.: for a discussion of the significance of these statues
see Jean Capart, "Les Débuts de l'Art en Égypte," Brussels, 1904, p. 216 et seq.]

[306: This may help to explain the peculiar sanctity of the shell.]

[307: Frazer, op. cit., 4.]

[308: Just as Hathor (or her surrogate Horus) turned men into the creatures of Set, i.e. pigs,
crocodiles, et cetera.]

[309: "Excavations at Saqqara," 1905-1906, p. 14.]

[310: Maspero, "The Dawn of Civilization," p. 34.]

[311: Saville, "Antiquities of Manabi, Ecuador," 1907.]

[312: A detailed summary of the literature relating to the world-wide distribution of certain
phases of the dragon-myth is given by Frobenius, "Das Zeitalter des Sonnesgottes," Berlin,
1904: on pp. 63-5 he gives the Rata-myth.]

[313: Which can also be compared with the conventional form of the thunderbolt.]

[314: Of course the hands had the additional significance as trophies of her murderous zeal.
But I think this is a secondary rationalization of their meaning. An excellent photograph of
a bronze statue (in the Calcutta Art Gallery), representing Kali with her girdle of hands,
is given by Mr. Donald A. Mackenzie, "Indian Myth and Legend," p. xl.]

[315: F. T. Elworthy has summarized the extensive literature relating to hand-amulets ("The
Evil Eye," 1895; and "Horns of Honour," 1900). Many of these hands have the definite reputation
as fertility charms which one would expect if Houssay's hypothesis of their derivation from
the octopus is well founded.]

The Swastika.

Houssay (op. cit. supra) has made the interesting suggestion that the swastika may have been
derived from such conventionalized representations of the octopus as are shown in Fig. 23.
This series of sketches is taken from Tümpel's memoir, which provided the foundation for Houssay's
hypothesis.

A vast amount of attention has been devoted to this lucky symbol,[316] which still enjoys a
widespread vogue at the present day, after a history of several thousand years. Although so
much has been written in attempted explanation of the swastika since Houssay made his suggestion,
so far as I am aware no one has paid the slightest attention to his hypothesis or made even
a passing reference to his memoir.[317] Fantastic and far-fetched though it may seem at first
sight (though surely not more so than the strictly orthodox solar theory advocated by Mr. Cook
or Mrs. Nuttall's astral speculations) Houssay's suggestion offers an explanation of some of
the salient attributes of the swastika on which the alternative hypotheses shed little or no light.

Among the earliest known examples of the symbol are those engraved upon the so-called "owl-shaped"
(but, as Houssay has conclusively demonstrated, really octopus-shaped) vases and a metal figurine
found by Schliemann in his excavations of the hill at Hissarlik.[318] The swastika is represented
upon the mons Veneris of these figures, which represent the Great Mother in her form as a woman
or as a pot, which is an anthropomorphized octopus, one of the avatars of the Great Mother.
The symbol seems to have been intended as a fertility amulet like the cowry, either suspended
from a girdle or depicted upon a pubic shield or conventionalized fig-leaf.

Wherever it is found the swastika is supposed to be an amulet to confer "good luck" and long
life. Both this reputation and the association with the female organs of reproduction link
up the symbol with the cowry, the Pterocera, and the octopus. It is clear then that the swastika
has the same reputation for magic and the same attributes and associations as the octopus;
and it may be a conventionalized representation of it, as Houssay has suggested.

It must not be assumed that the identification of the swastika with the Great Mother and her
powers of giving life and resurrection necessarily invalidates the solar and astral theories
recently championed by Mr. Cook and Mrs. Nuttall respectively. I have already called attention
to the fact that the Sun-god derived his existence and all his attributes from his mother.
The whole symbolism of the Winged Disk and the Wheel of the Sun and their reputation for life-giving
and destruction were adopted from the Great Mother. These well-established facts should prepare
us to recognize that the admission of the truth of Houssay's suggestion would not necessarily
invalidate the more widely accepted solar significance of the swastika.

Tümpel called attention to the fact that, when they set about conventionalizing the octopus,
the Mycenæan artists often resorted to the practice of representing pairs of "arms" as units
and so making four-limbed and three-limbed forms (Fig. 23), which Houssay regards as the prototypes
of the swastika and the triskele respectively. That such a process may have played a part in
the development of the symbol is further suggested by the form of a Transcaucasian swastika
found by Rössler,[319] who assigns it to the Late Bronze or Early Iron Age. Each of the four
limbs is bifurcated at its extremity. Moreover they exhibit the series of spots, so often found
upon or alongside the limbs of the symbol, which suggest the conventional way of representing
the suckers of the octopus in the Mycenæan designs (Fig. 23).

Another remarkable picture of a swastika-like emblem has been found in America.[320] The elephant-headed
god sits in the centre and four pairs of arms radiate from him, each of them equipped with
definite suckers.

Another possible way in which the design of a four-limbed swastika may have been derived from
an octopus is suggested by the gypsum weight found in 1901 by Sir Arthur Evans[321] in the
West Magazine of the palace at Knossos (circa 1500 B.C.). Upon the surface of this weight the
form of an octopus has been depicted, four of the arms of which stand out in much stronger
relief than the others.

The number four has a peculiar mystical significance (vide infra, p. 206) and is especially
associated with the Sun-god Horus. This fact may have played some part in the process of reduction
of the number of limbs of the octopus to four; or alternatively it may have helped to emphasize
the solar associations of the symbol, which other considerations were responsible for suggesting.
The designs upon the pots from Hissarlik show that at a relatively early epoch the swastika
was confused with the sun's disc represented as a wheel with four spokes.[322] But the solar
attributes of the swastika are secondary to those of life-giving and luck-bringing, with which
it was originally endowed as a form of the Great Mother.

The only serious fact which arouses some doubt as to the validity of Houssay's theory is the
discovery of an early painted vase at Susa decorated with an unmistakable swastika. Edmond
Pottier, who has described the ceramic ware from Susa,[323] regards this pot as Proto-Elamite
of the earliest period. If Pottier's claim is justified we have in this isolated specimen from
Susa the earliest example of the swastika. Moreover, it comes from a region in which the symbol
was supposed to be wholly absent.

This raises a difficult problem for solution. Is the Proto-Elamite swastika the prototype of
the symbol whose world-wide migrations have been studied by Wilson (op. cit. supra)? Or is
it an instance of independent evolution? If it falls within the first category and is really
the parent of the early Anatolian swastikas, how is it to be explained? Was the conventionalization
of the octopus design much more ancient than the earliest Trojan examples of the symbol? Or
was the Susian design adopted in the West and given a symbolic meaning which it did not have
before then?

These are questions which we are unable to answer at present because the necessary information
is lacking. I have enumerated them merely to suggest that any hasty inferences regarding the
bearing of the Susian design upon the general problem are apt to be misleading. Vincent[324]
claims that the fact of the swastika having been in use by ceramic artists in Crete and Susiana
many centuries before the appearance of Mycenæan art is fatal to Houssay's hypothesis. But
I think it is too soon to make such an assumption. The swastika was already a rigidly conventionalized
symbol when we first know it both in the Mediterranean and in Susiana. It may therefore have
a long history behind it. The octopus may possibly have begun to play a part in the development
of this symbolism before the Egyptian Bes (vide supra, p. 171) was evolved, perhaps even before
the time of the Coptos statues of Min (supra, p. 169), or in the early days of Sumerian history
when the conventional form of the water-pot was being determined (infra, p. 179). These are
mere conjectures, which I mention merely for the purpose of suggesting that the time is not
yet ripe for using such arguments as Vincent's finally to dispose of Houssay's octopus-theory.

There can be no doubt that the symbolism of the Mycenæan spiral and the volute is closely related
to the octopus. In fact, the evidence provided by Minoan paintings and Mycenæan decorative
art demonstrates that the spiral as a symbol of life-giving was definitely derived from the
octopus. The use of the volute on Egyptian scarabs[325] and also in the decoration of an early
Thracian statuette of a nude goddess[326] indicate that it was employed like the spiral and
octopus as a life-symbol.

In Spanish graves of the Early and Middle Neolithic types M. Siret found cowry-shells in association
with a series of flint implements, crude idols, and pottery almost precisely reproducing the
forms of similar objects found with cowries and pecten shells at Hissarlik.[327] But when the
Æneolithic phase of culture dawned in Spain, and the Ægean octopus-motif made its appearance
there, the culture as a whole reveals unmistakable evidence of a predominantly Egyptian inspiration.

M. Siret claims, however, that, even in the Neolithic phase in Spain, the crude idols represent
forms derived from the octopus in the Eastern Mediterranean (p. 59 et seq.). He regards the
octopus as "a conventional symbol of the ocean, or, more precisely, of the fertilizing watery
principle" (p. 19). He elucidates a very interesting feature of the Æneolithic representation
of the octopus in Spain. The spiral-motif of the Ægean gives place to an angular design, which
he claims to be due to the influence of the conventional Egyptian way of representing water
(p. 40). If this interpretation is correct--and, in spite of the slenderness of the evidence,
I am inclined to accept it--it affords a remarkable illustration of the effects of culture-contact
in the conventionalization of designs, to which Dr. Rivers has called attention.[328] Whatever
explanation may be provided of this method of representing the arms of the octopus with its
angularly bent extremities, it seems to have an important bearing on Houssay's hypothesis of
the swastika's origin. For it would reveal the means by which the spiral or volute shape of
the limbs of the swastika became transformed into the angular form, which is so characteristic
of the conventional symbol.[329]

The significance of the spiral as a form of the Great Mother inevitably led to its identification
with the thunder weapon, like all her other surrogates. I have already referred (Chapter II,
p. 98) to the association of the spiral with thunder and lightning in Eastern Asia. But other
factors played a significant part in determining this specialization. In Egypt the god Amen
was identified with the ram; and this creature's spirally curved horn became the symbol of
the thunder-god throughout the Mediterranean area,[330] and then further afield in Europe,
Africa, and Asia, where, for instance, we see Agni's ram with the characteristic horn. This
blending of the influence of the octopus- and the ram's-horn-motifs made the spiral a conventional
representation of thunder. This is displayed in its most definite form in China, Japan, Indonesia,
and America, where we find the separate spiral used as a thunder-symbol, and the spiral appendage
on the side of the head as a token of the god of thunder.[331]

[316: Thomas Wilson ("The Swastika, the Earliest Known Symbol, and its Migrations; with Observations
on the Migration of Certain Industries in Prehistoric Times," Report of the U. S. National
Museum for 1894, Washington, 1896) has given a full and well-illustrated summary of most of
the literature: further information is provided by Count d'Alviella (op. cit. supra), "The
Migration of Symbols"; by Zelia Nuttall ("The Fundamental Principles of Old and New World Civilizations,"
Archæological and Ethnological Papers of the Peabody Museum, Cambridge, Mass., 1901); and Arthur
Bernard Cook ("Zeus, A Study in Ancient Religion," Vol. I, Cambridge, 1914, pp. 472 et seq.).]

[317: Since this has been printed Mr. W. J. Perry has called my attention to a short article
by René Croste ("Le Svastika," Bull. Trimestriel de la Société Bayonnaise d'Études Regionales,
1918), in which Houssay's hypothesis is mentioned as having been adopted by Guilleminot ("Les
Nouveaux Horizons de la Science").]

[318: Wilson (op. cit., pp. 829-33 and Figs. 125, 128, and 129) has collected the relevant
passages and illustrations from Schliemann's writings.]

[319: Zeitschrift für Ethnologie, Bd. 37, p. 148.]

[320: Seler, Zeitschrift für Ethnologie, Bd., 41, p. 409.]

[321: Corolla Numismatica, 1906, p. 342.]

[322: A. B. Cook, "Zeus," pp. 198 et seq.]

[323: "Etude Historique et Chronologique sur les Vases Peints de l'Acropole de Suse," Mémoires
de la Délégation en Perse, T. XIII, Rech. Archéol., 5^e série, 1912, Plate XLI, Fig. 3.]

[324: "Canaan," p. 340, footnote.]

[325: Alice Grenfell, Journal of Egyptian Archæology, Vol. II, 1915, p. 217: and Ancient Egypt,
1916, Part I, p. 23.]

[326: S. Reinach, Revue Archéol., T. XXVI, 1895, p. 369.]

[327: L. Siret, "Questions de Chronologie et d'Ethnographie Ibériques," 1913, p. 18, Fig. 3.]

[328: Rivers, "History of Melanesian Society," Vol. II, p. 374; also Report Brit. Association,
1912, p. 599.]

[329: M. Siret assigns the date of the appearance in Spain of the highly conventionalized angular
form of octopus to the time between the fifteenth and the twelfth centuries B.C.; and he attributes
it to Phœnician influence (p. 63).]

[330: Cook, "Zeus," p. 346 et seq.]

[331: This is well shown upon the Copan representations (Fig. 19) of the elephant-headed god--see
Nature, November, 25, 1915, p. 340.]

The Mother Pot.

In the lecture on "Incense and Libations" (Chapter I) I referred to the enrichment of the conception
of water's life-giving properties which the inclusion of the idea of human fertilization by
water involved. When this event happened a new view developed in explanation of the part played
by woman in reproduction. She was no longer regarded as the real parent of mankind, but as
the matrix in which the seed was planted and nurtured during the course of its growth and development.
Hence in the earliest Egyptian hieroglyphic writing the picture of a pot of water was taken
as the symbol of womanhood, the "vessel" which received the seed. A globular water-pot, the
common phonetic value of which is Nw or Nu, was the symbol of the cosmic waters, the god Nw
(Nu), whose female counterpart was the goddess Nut.

In his report, "A Collection of Hieroglyphs,"[332] Mr. F. Ll. Griffith discusses the bowl of
water (a) and says that it stands for the female principle in the words for vulva and woman.
When it is recalled that the cowry (and other shells) had the same double significance, the
possibility suggests itself whether at times confusion may not have arisen between the not
very dissimilar hieroglyphic signs for "a shell" (h) and "the bowl of water" (woman) (f).[333]

Referring to the sign (g and h) for "a shell," Mr. Griffith says (p. 25): "It is regularly
found at all periods in the word ḫaw·t = altar,[334] and perhaps only in this word: but it
is a peculiarity of the Pyramid Texts that the sign shown in the text-figures c, h, and i is
in them used very commonly, not as a word-sign, but also as a phonetic equivalent to the sign
labelled k (in the text-figure) for ḫ' (kha), or apparently for ḫ alone in many words.

"The name of the lotus leaf is probably derived from the same root, on account of its shell-like
outline or vice versa."

The familiar representation of Horus (and his homologues in India and elsewhere) being born
from the lotus suggests that the flower represents his mother Hathor. But as the argument in
these pages has led us towards the inference that the original form of Hathor was a shell-amulet,[335]
it seems not unlikely that her identification with the lotus may have arisen from the confusion
between the latter and the cowry, which no doubt was also in part due to the belief that both
the shell and the plant were expressions of the vital powers of the water in which they developed.

The identification of the Great Mother with a pot was one of the factors that played a part
in the assimilation of her attributes with those of the Water God, who in early Sumerian pictures
was usually represented pouring the life-giving waters from his pot (Fig. 24, h and l).

This idea of the Mother Pot is found not only in Babylonia, Egypt, India,[336] and the Eastern
Mediterranean, but wherever the influence of these ancient civilizations made itself felt.
It is widespread among the Celtic-speaking peoples. In Wales the pot's life-giving powers are
enhanced by making its rim of pearls. But as the idea spread, its meaning also became extended.
At first it was merely a jug of water or a basket of figs, but elsewhere it became also a witch's
cauldron, the magic cup, the Holy Grail, the font in which a child is reborn into the faith,
the vessel of water here being interpreted in the earliest sense as the uterus or the organ
of birth. The Celtic pot, so Mr. Donald Mackenzie tells me, is closely associated with cows,
serpents, frogs, dragons, birds, pearls, and "nine maidens that blow the fire under the cauldron";
and, if the nature of these relationships be examined, each of them will be found to be a link
between the pot and the Great Mother.

The witch's cauldron and the maidens who assist in the preparation of the witch's medicine
seem to be the descendants respectively of Hathor's pots (in the story of the Destruction of
Mankind) and the Sekti who churn up the didi and the barley with which to make the elixir of
immortality and the sedative draught for the destructive goddess herself.

Mr. Donald Mackenzie has given me a number of additional references from Celtic and Indian
literature in corroboration of these widespread associations of the pot with the Great Mother;
and he reminds me that in Oceania the coco-nut has the same reputation as the pot in the Indian
Mahābhārata. It is the source of food and anything else that is wanted, and its supply can
never be exhausted. [On some future occasion I hope to make use of the wonderful legends of
the pot's life-giving powers, to which Mr. Mackenzie has directed my attention. At present,
however, I must content myself with the statement that the pot's identity with the Great Mother
is deeply rooted in ancient belief throughout the greater part of the world.[337]]

The diverse conceptions of the Great Mother as a pot and as an octopus seem to have been blended
in Mycenæan lands, where the so-called "owl-shaped" pots were clearly intended to represent
the goddess in both these aspects united in one symbol. When the diffusion of these ideas into
more remote parts of the world took place syntheses with other motives produced a great variety
of most complex forms. In Honduras pottery vessels have been found[338] which give tangible
expression to the blending of the ideas of the Mother Pot, the crocodile-like Makara, star-spangled
like Hathor's cow, Aphrodite's pig, and Soma's deer, and provided with the deer's antlers of
the Eastern Asiatic dragon (see Chapter II, p. 103).

The New Testament sets forth the ancient conception of birth and rebirth. (John iii. 4, 5, and 6).

The phrase "born of water" refers to the birth "of the flesh"; and the mother's womb is the
vessel containing "the water" from which the new life emerges. Plutarch states, with reference
to the birth of Isis: "[Greek: tetartê de tên Isin en panygrois genesthai]". The great waters
which produced all living things, the Egyptian god Nun and the goddess Nut, were expressed
in hieroglyphic as pots of water. The goddess was identified with Hathor's celestial star-spangled
cow, the original mother of the sun-god; and the word "Nun" was a symbol of all that was new,
young, and fresh, and the fertilizing and life-giving waters of the annual inundation of the
Nile. Hathor was the daughter of these waters, as Aphrodite was sprung from the sea-foam.

[332: Archæol. Upon the famous archaic palette of Narmer (Fig. 18), a sporran, composed of
four representations of Hathor's head, takes the place of the original cowries that were suspended
from more primitive girdles.

The cowries of the head ornament of primitive peoples of Africa and Asia (and of the Mediterranean
area in early times--Schliemann's "Ilios," Fig. 685) are often replaced in Egypt by lotus flowers
(W. D. Spanton, "Water Lilies of Egypt," Ancient Egypt, 1917, Part I, Figs. 19, 20, and 21).
Upon the head-band of the statue of Nefert, which I have reproduced in Chapter I (Fig. 4),
a conventional lotus design is found (see Spanton's Fig. 19), which is almost identical with
the classical thunder-weapon.]

[336: Among the Dravidian people at the present day the seven goddesses (corresponding to the
seven Hathors) are often represented by seven pots.]

[337: The luxuriant crop of stories of the Holy Grail was not inspired originally by mere literary
invention. A tradition sprung from the fountain-head of all mythology, the parent-story of
the Destruction of Mankind, provided the materials which a series of writers elaborated into
the varied assortment of legends of the Mother Pot. The true meaning of the Quest of the Holy
Grail can be understood only by reading the fabled accounts of it in the light of the ancient
search for the elixir of life and the historical development of the narrative describing that
search.

A concise summary of the Grail literature will be found in Jessie L. Weston's "The Quest of
the Holy Grail" (1913). Her theory will be found, after some slight modifications, to fall
into line with the general argument of this book.

Mr. F. Ll. Griffith tells me that the Egyptian hieroglyphic for the verb "coire cum" gives
frank expression to the real meaning of the symbolism of the pot as the matrix which receives
the seed. The same idea provides the material for the incident of the birth of Drona (the pot-born)
in the Adi Parva (Sections CXXXI, CXXXIX, and CLXVIII, in Roy's translation) of the Mahabharata,
to which Mr. Donald A. Mackenzie has kindly called my attention. Drona was conceived in a pot
from the seed of a Rishi. A widespread variant of the same story is the conception of a child
from a drop of blood in a pot (see, for example, Hartland, "Legend of Perseus," Vol. I, pp.
98 and 144). If the pot can thus create a human being, it is easy to understand how it acquired
its reputation of being also able to multiply food and provide an inexhaustible supply. Similarly,
all substances, such as barley, rice, gold, pearls, and jade, to which the possession of a
special vital essence or "soul substance" was attributed, were believed to be able to reproduce
themselves and so increase in quantity of their own activities. As "givers of life" they were
also able to add to their own life-substance, in other words to grow like any other living being.]

[338: "An American Dragon," Man, November, 1918.]

Artemis and the Guardian of the Portal.

Sir Gardner Wilkinson states (see text-figure, p. 179, b) that "a basket of sycamore figs"
was originally the hieroglyphic sign for a woman, a goddess, or a mother. Later on (p. 199)
I shall refer to the possible bearing of this Egyptian idea upon the origin of the Hebrew word
for mandrakes and the allusion to "a basket of figs" in the Book of Jeremiah.

The life-giving powers attributed to "love-apples" and the association of these ideas with
the fig-tree may have facilitated the transference of these attributes of "apples" to those
actually growing upon a tree.

We know that Aphrodite was intimately associated, not only with "love-apples," but also with
real apples. The sun-god Apollo's connexion with the apple-tree, which Dr. Rendel Harris, with
great daring, wants to convert into an identity of name, was probably only one of the results
of that long series of confusions between the Great Mother (Hathor) and the Sun-god (Horus),
to which I have referred in my discussion of the dragon-story.

But when Apollo's form emerges more clearly he is associated not with Aphrodite but with Artemis,
whom Dr. Rendel Harris has shown to be identified with the mugwort, Artemisia. The association
of the goddess with this plant is probably related to the identification of Sekhet with the
marsh-plants of the Egyptian Delta and of Hathor and Isis with the lotus and other water plants.
Any doubt as to the reality of these associations and Egyptian connexions is banished by the
evidence of Artemis's male counterpart Apollo Hyakinthos and his relations to the sacred lily
and other water plants.[339] Artemis was a gynæcological specialist: for she assisted women
not only in childbirth and the expulsion of the placenta, but also in cases of amenorrhœa and
affections of the uterus. She was regarded as the goddess of the portal, not merely of birth,[340]
but also of gold and treasure, of which she possessed the key, and of the year (January).

This brings us back to the guardianship of gold and treasures which plays so vital a part in
the evolution of the Mediterranean goddesses. For, like the story of the dog and the mandrake,
it emphasizes the conchological ancestry of these deities and their connexion with the guardians
of the subterranean palaces where pearls are found. But Artemis was not only the opener of
the treasure-houses, but she also possessed the secret of the philosopher's stone: she could
transmute base substances into gold,[341] for was she not the offspring of the Golden Hathor?
To open the portal either of birth or wealth she used her magic wand or key. As Nūb, the lady
of gold, the Great Mother could not only change other substances into gold, but she was also
the guardian of the treasure house of gold, pearls, and precious stones. Hence she could grant
riches. Elsewhere in this chapter (p. 221) I shall explain how the goddess came to be identified
with gold.

Just as Hathor, the Eye of Re, descended to provide the elixir of youth for the king who was
the sun-god, so Artemis is described as travelling through the air in a car drawn by two serpents[342]
seeking the most pious of kings in order that she might establish her cult with him and bless
him with renewed youth.[343]

Artemis was a moon-goddess closely related to Britomartis and Diktynna, the Cretan prototype
of Aphrodite. These goddesses afforded help to women in childbirth and were regarded as guardians
of the portal. The goddess of streams and marshes was identified with the mugwort (Artemisia),
which was hung above the door in the place occupied at other times by the winged disk, the
thunder-stone, or a crocodile (dragon). As the guardian of portals Artemis's magic plant could
open locks and doors. As the giver of life she could also withhold the vital essence and so
cause disease or death; but she possessed the means of curing the ills she inflicted. Artemis,
in fact, like all the other goddesses, was a witch.

In former lectures[344] I have often discussed the remarkable feature of Egyptian architecture,
which is displayed in the tendency to exaggerate the door-posts and lintels, until in the New
Empire the great temples become transformed into little more than monstrously overgrown doorways
or pylons. I need not emphasize again the profound influence exerted by this line of development
upon the Dravidian temples of India and the symbolic gateways of China and Japan.

This significance of gates was no doubt suggested by the idea that they represented the means
of communication between the living and the dead, and, symbolically, the portal by which the
dead acquired a rebirth into a new form of existence. It was presumably for this reason that
the winged disk as a symbol of life-giving, was placed above the lintels of these doors, not
merely in Egypt, Phœnicia, the Mediterranean Area, and Western Asia, but also in America,[345]
and in modified forms in India, Indonesia, Melanesia, Cambodia, China, and Japan.

The discussion (Chapter II) of the means by which the winged disk came to acquire the power
of life-giving, "the healing in its wings," will have made it clear that the sun became accredited
with these virtues only when it assumed the place of the other "Eye of Re," the Great Mother.
In fact, it was a not uncommon practice in Egypt to represent the eyes of Re or of Horus himself
in place of the more usual winged disk. In the Ægean area the original practice of representing
the Great Mother was retained long after it was superseded in Egypt by the use of the winged
disk (the sun-god).

Over the lintel of the famous "Lion Gate" at Mycenæ, instead of the winged disk, we find a
vertical pillar to represent the Mother Goddess, flanked by two lions which are nothing more
than other representatives of herself (Fig. 26). This indicates the identity of what Evans
calls "the horns of consecration" and the "mountains of the horizon," and also suggests how
confusion may have arisen between the mountains and the cow's horns. The ankh (life-sign) below
the sun is the determinative of the act of giving birth or life. The design is heraldically
supported by the Great Mother's lionesses.

(e) Part of the design from a Mycenæan vase from Old Salamis (after Evans, p. 9). The cow's
head and the Eastern Mountains are shown alongside one another, each of them supporting the
Double Axe representing the god. If this design be compared with the Egyptian picture (a),
it will be seen that Hathor's place is taken by the tree-form of the Great Mother, and the
trees which in the former (a) are growing upon the Eastern Mountains are now placed alongside
the "horns". In the complete design (vide Evans, op. cit., p. 44) a votary is represented blowing
a conch-shell trumpet to animate the deity in the sacred tree. If this be compared with the
Egyptian picture (a) it will be noted that the Great Mother is now replaced by a tree: the
Eastern Mountains by bulls, from whose backs the trees of the Eastern Mountains are sprouting.
This design affords interesting corroboration of the suggestion that the Eastern Mountains
may be confused with the cow's head (see b and c) or with the cow itself. Newberry (Annals
of Archæology and Anthropology, Liverpool, Vol. I, p. 28) has called attention to the intimate
association (in Protodynastic Egypt) of the Eastern Mountains, the Bull and the Double Axe--a
certain token of cultural contact with Crete.

(k) The famous sculpture above the Lion Gate at Mycenæ. The pillar form of the Great Mother
heraldically supported by her lioness-avatars, which correspond to the cattle of the design
(i) and the Eastern Mountains of (a). The use of this design above the lintel of the gate brings
it into homology with the Winged Disk. The Pillar represents the Goddess, as the Disk represents
her Egyptian locum tenens, Horus; her destructive representatives (the lionesses) correspond
to the two uræi of the Winged Disk design.]

In his "Mycenæan Tree and Pillar Cult," Sir Arthur Evans has shown that all possible transitional
forms can be found (in Crete and the Ægean area) between the representation of the actual goddess
and her pillar-and tree-manifestations, until the stage is reached where the sun itself appears
above the pillar between the lions.[346] In the large series of seals from Mesopotamia and
Western Asia which have been described in Mr. William Hayes Ward's monograph,[347] we find
manifold links between both the Egyptian and the Minoan cults.

The tree-form of the Great Mother there becomes transformed into the "tree of life" and the
winged disk is perched upon its summit. Thus we have a duplication of the life-giving deities.
The "tree of life" of the Great Mother surmounted by the winged disk which is really her surrogate
or that of the sun-god, who took over from her the power of life-giving (Figs. 25 and 26).

In an interesting Cretan sarcophagus from Hagia Triada[348] the life-giving power is tripled.
There is not only the tree representing the Great Mother herself; but also the double axe (the
winged-disk homologue of the sun-god); and the more direct representation of him as a bird
perched upon the axe (Fig. 25, f).

The identification of the Great Mother with the tree or pillar seems also to have led to her
confusion with the pestle with which the materials for her draught of immortality was pounded.
She was also the bowl or mortar in which the pestle worked.[349]

As the Great Mother became confused with the pestle, so, "the Soma-plant, whose stalks are
crushed by the priests to make the Soma-libation, becomes in the Vedas itself the Crusher or
Smiter, by a very characteristic and frequent Oriental conceit in accordance with which the
agent and the person or thing acted on are identified".[350]

"The pressing-stones by means of which Soma is crushed typify thunderbolts." "In the Rig-Veda,
we read of him [Soma] as jyotihrathah, i.e. 'mounted on a car of light' (IX, 5, 86, verse 43);
or again: 'Like a hero he holds weapons in his hand ... mounted on a chariot' (IX, 4, 76, verse
2)"--(p. 171).

"Soma was the giver of power, of riches and treasures, flocks and herds, but above all, the
giver of immortality" (p. 140).

Sir Arthur Evans is of opinion "that in the case of the Cypriote cylinders the attendant monsters
and, to a certain extent, the symbolic column itself, are taken from an Egyptian solar cycle,
and the inference has been drawn that the aniconic pillars among the Mycenæans of Cyprus were
identified with divinities having some points in common with the sun-gods Ra, or Horus, and
Hathor, the Great Mother" (op. cit., pp. 63 and 64).

In attempting to find some explanation of how the tree or pillar of the goddess came to be
replaced in the Indian legend by Mount Meru, the possibility suggests itself whether the aniconic
form of the Great Mother placed between two relatively diminutive hills may not have helped,
by confusion, to convert the cone itself into a yet bigger hill, which was identified with
Mount Meru, the summit of which in other legends produced the amrita of the gods, either in
the form of the soma plant that grew upon its heights, or the rain clouds which collected there.
But, as the subsequent argument will make clear, the real reason for the identification of
the Great Mother with a mountain was the belief that the sun was born from the splitting of
the eastern mountain, which thus assumed the function of the sun-god's mother. Possibly the
association of the tops of mountains with cloud- and rain-phenomena and the gods that controlled
them played some part in the development of the symbolism of mountains. [When I referred (in
Chapter II, p. 98) to the fact that what Sir Arthur Evans calls "the horns of consecration"
was primarily the split mountain of the dawn, I was not aware that Professor Newberry ("Two
Cults of the Old Kingdom," Annals of Archæology and Anthropology, Liverpool, Vol. I, 1908,
p. 28) had already suggested this identification.]

In the Egyptian story the god Re instructed the Sekti of Heliopolis to pound the materials
for the food of immortality. In the Indian version, the gods, aware of their mortality, desired
to discover some elixir which would make them immortal. To this end, Mount Meru [the Great
Mother] was cast into the sea [of milk]. Vishnu, in his second avatar as a tortoise[351] supported
the mountain on his back; and the Nâga serpent Vasuki was then twisted around the mountain,
the gods seizing its head and the demons his tail twirled the mountain until they had churned
the amrita or water of life. Wilfrid Jackson has called attention to the fact that this scene
has been depicted, not only in India and Japan, but also in the Precolumbian Codex Cortes drawn
by some Maya artist in Central America.[352]

The horizon is the birthplace of the gods; and the birth of the deity is depicted with literal
crudity as an emergence from the portal between its two mountains. The mountain splits to give
birth to the sun-god, just as in the later fable the parturient mountain produced the "ridiculous
mouse" (Apollo Smintheus). The Great Mother is described as giving birth--"the gates of the
firmament are undone for Teti himself at break of day" [that is when the sun-god is born on
the horizon]. "He comes forth from the Field of Earu" (Egyptian Pyramid Texts--Breasted's translation).

In the domain of Olympian obstetrics the analogy between birth and the emergence from the door
of a house or the gateway of a temple is a common theme of veiled reference. Artemis, for instance,
is a goddess of the portal, and is not only a helper in childbirth, but also grows in her garden
a magical herb which is capable of opening locks. This reputation, however, was acquired not
merely by reason of her skill in midwifery, but also as an outcome of the legend[353] of the
treasure-house of pearls which was under the guardianship of the great "giver of life" and
of which she kept the magic key. She was in fact the feminine form of Janus, the doorkeeper
who presided over all beginnings, whether of birth, or of any kind of enterprise or new venture,
or the commencement of the year (like Hathor). Janus was the guardian of the door of Olympus
itself, the gate of rebirth into the immortality of the gods.

The ideas underlying these conceptions found expression in an endless variety of forms, material,
intellectual, and moral, wherever the influence of civilization made itself felt. I shall refer
only to one group of these expressions that is directly relevant to the subject-matter of this
book. I mean the custom of suspending or representing the life-giving symbol above the portal
of temples and houses. Thus the plant peculiar to Artemis herself, the mugwort or Artemisia,
was hung above the door,[354] just as the winged disk was sculptured upon the lintel, or the
thunder-stone was placed above the door of the cowhouse[355] to afford the protection of the
Great Mother's powers of life-giving to her own cattle.

In the Pyramid Texts the rebirth of a dead pharaoh is described with vivid realism and directness.
"The waters of life which are in the sky come. The waters of life which are in the earth come.
The sky burns for thee, the earth trembles for thee, before the birth of the god. The two hills
are divided, the god comes into being, the god takes possession of his body. The two hills
are divided, this Neferkere comes into being, this Neferkere takes possession of his body.
Behold this Neferkere--his feet are kissed by the pure waters which are from Atum, which the
phallus of Shu made, which the vulva of Tefnut brought into being. They have come, they have
brought for thee the pure waters from their father."[356]

The Egyptians entertained the belief[357] that the sun-god was born of the celestial cow Mehetwēret,
a name which means "Great Flood," and is the equivalent of the primeval ocean Nun. In other
words the celestial cow Hathor, the embodiment of the life-giving waters of heaven and earth,
is the mother of Horus. So also Aphrodite was born of the "Great Flood" which is the ocean.

In his report upon the hieroglyphs of Beni Hasan,[358] Mr. Griffith refers to the picture of
"a woman of the marshes," which is read sekht, and is "used to denote the goddess Sekhet, the
goddess of the marshes, who presided over the occupations of the dwellers there. Chief among
these occupations must have been the capture of fish and fowl and the culture and gathering
of water-plants, especially the papyrus and the lotus". Sekhet was in fact a rude prototype
of Artemis in the character depicted by Dr. Rendel Harris.[359]

It is perhaps not without significance that the root of a marsh plant, the Iris pseudacorus[360]
is regarded in Germany as a luck-bringer which can take the place of the mandrake.[361]

The Great Mother wields a magic wand which the ancient Egyptian scribes called the "Great Magician".
It was endowed with the two-fold powers of life-giving and opening, which from the beginning
were intimately associated the one with the other from the analogy of the act of birth, which
was both an opening and a giving of life. Hence the "magic wand" was a key or "opener of the
ways," wherewith, at the ceremonies of resurrection, the mouth was opened for speech and the
taking of food, as well as for the passage of the breath of life, the eyes were opened for
sight, and the ears for hearing. Both the physical act of opening (the "key" aspect) as well
as the vital aspect of life-giving (which we may call the "uterine" aspect) were implied in
this symbolism. Mr. Griffith suggests that the form of the magic wand may have been derived
from that of a conventionalized picture of the uterus,[362] in its aspect as a giver of life.
But it is possible also that its other significance as an "opener of the ways" may have helped
in the confusion of the hieroglyphic uterus-symbol with the key-symbol, and possibly also with
double-axe symbol which the vaguely defined early Cretan Mother-Goddess wielded. For, as we
have already seen (supra, p. 122), the axe also was a life-giving divinity and a magic wand
(Fig. 8).

In his chapter on "the Origin of the Cult of Artemis," Dr. Rendel Harris refers to the reputation
of Artemis as the patron of travellers, and to Parkinson's statement: "It is said of Pliny
that if a traveller binde some of the hearbe [Artemisia] with him, he shall feele no weariness
at all in his journey" (p. 72). Hence the high Dutch name Beifuss is applied to it.

The left foot of the dead was called "the staff of Hathor" by the Egyptians; and the goddess
was said "to make the deceased's legs to walk".[363]

It was a common practice to tie flowers to a mummy's feet, as I discovered in unwrapping the
royal mummies. According to Moret (op. cit.) the flowers of Upper and Lower Egypt were tied
under the king's feet at the celebration of the Sed festival.

Mr. Battiscombe Gunn (quoted by Dr. Alan Gardiner) states that the familiar symbol of life
known as the ankh represents the string of a sandal.[364]

It seems to be worth considering whether the symbolism of the sandal-string may not have been
derived from the life-girdle, which in ancient Indian medical treatises was linked in name
with the female organs of reproduction and the pubic bones. According to Moret (op. cit., p.
91) a girdle furnished with a tail was used as a sign of consecration or attainment of the
divine life after death. Jung (op. cit., p. 270), who, however, tries to find a phallic meaning
in all symbolism, claims that reference to the foot has such a significance.

[339: Evans, op. cit., p. 50.]

[340: Her Latin representative, Diana, had a male counterpart and conjugate, Dianus, i.e. Janus,
of whom it was said: "Ipse primum Janus cum puerperium concipitur ... aditum aperit recipiendo
semini". For other quotations see Rendel Harris, op. cit., p. 88 and the article "Janus" in
Roscher's "Lexikon".]

[341: Rendel Harris, p. 73.]

[342: No doubt the two uræi of the Saga of the Winged Disk.]

[343: A. B. Cook, "Zeus," Vol. 1, pll. 1-3; and V. Duhn, "Arch. f. Religionswissensch.," XII,
p. 161, pll. 2-4; quoted by Blinkenberg, "The Thunder Weapon," pp. 20 and 21, Fig. 9.]

[349: Without just reason, many writers have assumed that the pestle, which was identified
with the handle used in the churning of the ocean (see de Gubernatis, "Zoological Mythology,"
Vol II, p. 361), was a phallic emblem. This meaning may have been given to the handle of the
churn at a later period, when the churn itself was regarded as the Mother Pot or uterus; but
we are not justified in assuming that this was its primary significance.]

[350: Gladys M. N. Davis, "The Asiatic Dionysos," p. 172.]

[351: The tortoise was the vehicle of Aphrodite also and her representatives in Central America.]

[352: Jackson, "Shells, etc.," pp. 57 et seq.]

[353: Vide supra, p. 158.]

[354: Rendel Harris, "The Ascent of Olympus," p. 80. In the building up of the idea of rebirth
the ancients kept constantly before their minds a very concrete picture of the actual process
of parturition and of the anatomy of the organs concerned in this physiological process. This
is not the place to enter into a discussion of the anatomical facts represented in the symbolism
of the "giver of life" presiding over the portal and the "two hills" which are divided at the
birth of the deity: but the real significance of the primitive imagery cannot be wholly ignored
if we want to understand the meaning of the phraseology used by the ancient writers.]

[355: Blinkenberg, "The Thunder-weapon," p. 72.]

[356: Aylward M. Blackman, "Sacramental Ideas and Usages in Ancient Egypt," Proceedings of
the Society of Biblical Archæology, March, 1918, p. 64.]

[357: Op. cit., p. 60.]

[358: "Archæol. Survey of Egypt," 5th Memoir, 1896, p. 31.]

[359: See especially op. cit., p. 35, the goddess of streams and marshes, who was also herself
"the mother plant," like the mother of Horus.]

[360: Whose cultural associations with the Great Mother in the Eastern Mediterranean littoral
has been discussed by Sir Arthur Evans, "Mycenæan Tree and Pillar Cult," pp. 49 et seq. Compare
also Apollo hyakinthos as further evidence of the link with Artemis.]

[361: P. J. Veth, "Internat. Arch. f. Ethnol.," Bd. 7, pp. 203 and 204.]

[362: "Hieroglyphics," p. 60.]

[363: Budge, "The Gods of the Egyptians," Vol.

We have now given reasons for believing that the personification of the mandrake was in some
way brought about by the transference to the plant of the magical virtues that originally belonged
to the cowry shell.

The problem that still awaits solution is the nature of the process by which the transference
was effected.

When I began this investigation the story of the Destruction of Mankind (see Chapter II) seemed
to offer an explanation of the confusion. Brugsch, Naville, Maspero, Erman, and in fact most
Egyptologists, seemed to be agreed that the magical substance from which the Egyptian elixir
of life was made was the mandrake. As there was no hint[365] in the Egyptian story of the derivation
of its reputation from the fancied likeness to the human form, its identification with Hathor
seemed to be merely another instance of those confusions with which the pathway of mythology
is so thickly strewn. In other words, the plant seemed to have been used merely to soothe the
excited goddess: then the other properties of "the food of the gods," of which it was an ingredient,
became transferred to the mandrake, so that it acquired the reputation of being a "giver of
life" as well as a sedative. If this had been true it would have been a simple process to identify
this "giver of life" with the goddess herself in her rôle as the "giver of life," and her cowry-ancestor
which was credited with the same reputation.

But this hypothesis is no longer tenable, because the word d'd' (variously transliterated doudou
or didi), which Brugsch[366] and his followers interpreted as "mandragora," is now believed
to have another meaning.

In a closely reasoned memoir, Henri Gauthier[367] has completely demolished Brugsch's interpretation
of this word. He says there are numerous instances of the use of d'd' (which he transliterates
doudouiou) in the medical papyri. In the Ebers papyrus "doudou d'Eléphantine broyé" is prescribed
as a remedy for external application in diseases of the heart, and as an astringent and emollient
dressing for ulcers. He says the substance was brought to Elephantine from the interior of
Africa and the coasts of Arabia.

Mr. F. Ll. Griffith informs me that Gauthier's criticism of the translation "mandrakes" is
undoubtedly just: but that the substance referred to was most probably "red ochre" or "hæmatite".[368]

The relevant passage in the Story of the Destruction of Mankind (in Seti I's tomb) will then
read as follows: "When they had brought the red ochre, the Sekti of Heliopolis pounded it,
and the priestesses mixed the pulverized substance with the beer, so that the mixture resembled
human blood".

I would call special attention to Gauthier's comment that the blood-coloured beer "had some
magical and marvellous property which is unknown to us".[369]

In his dictionary Brugsch considered the determinative [Symbol: circle over three vertical
lines] to refer to the fruits of a tree which he called "apple tree," on the supposed analogy
with the Coptic [jiji (janja iota janja iota)], fructus autumnalis, pomus, the Greek [Greek:
opôra]; and he proposed to identify the supposed fruit, then transliterated doudou, with the
Hebrew doudaïm, and translate it poma amatoria, mandragora, or in German, Alraune. This interpretation
was adopted by most scholars until Gauthier raised objections to it.

As Loret and Schweinfurth have pointed out, the mandrake is not found in Egypt, nor in fact
in any part of the Nile Valley.[370]

But what is more significant, the Greeks translated the Hebrew dūdā'im by [Greek: mandragoras]
and the Copts did not use the word [Coptic: jiji] in their translations, but either the Greek
word or a term referring to its sedative and soporific properties. Steindorff has shown (Zeitsch.
f. Ægypt. Sprache, Bd. XXVII, 1890, p. 60) that the word in dispute would be more correctly
transliterated "didi" instead of "doudou".

Finally, in a letter Mr. Griffith tells me the identification of didi with the Coptic [Coptic:
jiji], "apple (?)" is philologically impossible.

Although this red colouring matter is thus definitely proved not to be the fruit of a plant,
there are reasons to suggest that when the story of the Destruction of Mankind spread abroad--and
the whole argument of this book establishes the fact that it did spread abroad--the substance
didi was actually confused in the Levant with the mandrake. We have already seen that in the
Delta a prototype of Artemis was already identified with certain plants.

