VOL. I.--NO. 44.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLAUDINE'S DOVES.

BY MRS. E. W. LATIMER.

A few days since, as I was driving in the Bois de Boulogne with a friend, a slender, sweet
young girl was pointed out to me. She was walking beside her mother, and there was a loving,
tender look in her blue eyes, a shrinking modesty in her deportment, which interested me at
the first glance. She was apparently about fifteen. I observed to the friend who pointed her
out to me that she was fair, modest, and pretty. "Yes," he replied, "and she is the heroine
of a very pretty story."

Eight years ago her father and mother occupied an appartement, or flat, in the Rue de Rivoli.
Part of the Rue de Rivoli has houses only on one side; the other is bordered by a high iron
railing with gilt spear-heads, inclosing the Garden of the Tuileries. At one point (which was
nearly opposite the house where Claudine lived) one tall pavilion of the palace abutted on
the sidewalk. The Rue de Rivoli is the most beautiful street in Paris. The windows of the sitting-room
of Claudine's mother looked over the palace and its gardens, its chestnut-trees and its fountains,
the Seine and its quays, with a more distant view of the Place de la Concorde and its obelisk,
the Chambers of the Legislature, and the gilded dome of the Tuileries. Every procession passed
under Claudine's windows. No little girl, I think, who lives in rooms overlooking the Rue de
Rivoli would wish to exchange them for any other home.

Claudine's parents, though of good birth and education, were not rich; they lived on the third
story. They had only one old servant. Claudine's mother was her daughter's nurse and governess.
Till the German army marched on Paris they had a peaceful, refined, and happy home.

At the moment of which I am about to write, the siege had ceased, and the terrible days of
the Commune were almost over. The little family began to breathe more freely--only in a certain
sense, however, for they were all gathered together in a little close room, which would have
looked into the court-yard of their house had not its windows been blocked up by pillows, mattresses,
and furniture. They dared not look into the street, they dared not go into their own sitting-room,
for the Versailles troops were entering Paris, bomb-shells were bursting in all directions,
and volleys of musketry were being fired round every street corner. Paris was like a city expecting
to be sacked, with the additional horror that each man's foes might be those of his own household.

Of a sudden they began to feel a stifling heat. Thick smoke rose all around them. There was
the sickening and suggestive smell of coal-oil in the air. Claudine's father felt that he must
know what was going on. To look out of the windows might be death to all of them; still he
ran into the sitting-room, tore down the beds and pillows from a window, and looked out on
the Rue de Rivoli.

The palace before him was in flames. As he looked, the fire swept over the venerable gray pile.
Forked tongues of flame darted higher than the Mansard roofs of its tall towers, and threatened
the stores and dwelling-houses across the way. Claudine's father looked below into the street:
there was no safety there. The men and women of the neighborhood, driven from their rooms by
falling fiery flakes from the high roofs of the old palace, clustered together under shelter
of the great porte cochères--by which carriages drive into the court-yards of French houses
under the rooms of the first story. Muskets, rifles, and mitrailleuses swept the street. To
venture into it seemed sure destruction. To stay beneath their blazing roof would expose them
all to perish in the flames. Bomb-shells were falling constantly to right and left, knocking
off pieces of the cornices of lofty, stately houses, tearing off their iron balconies, and
scattering shattered fragments of wood, window-glass, iron, and plaster on the pavement.

The father of Claudine, aghast with fear and horror, stepped back into the sitting-room. "I
see no escape for us," he cried.

At that moment hoarse shouts below them in the court-yard announced that a party of insurgents,
accompanied by a band of the fiendish women they called pétroleuses, had burst into the house
that they inhabited. Already the dangerous fluid from which these women took their name was
being poured over the wood-work of the staircase and the two lower appartements.

A cry ran through the house of "Save yourselves!" Claudine's father gathered together some
important papers, some money, and a few jewels. The mother and her old servant spread a blanket
on the floor, and flung into it such objects as they could gather up in haste, tying it by
the four corners. As to Claudine, frantic with terror, she ran into her bedroom and brought
out what she valued most--a cage containing two young turtle-doves. They were her only pets.
She loved them better than anything else in the world, except old Clémence and her father and
mother.

The torches of the Communards had already set fire to the wood-work saturated with coal-oil.
Flames were breaking out in every direction. The inhabitants of the doomed houses were forced
to make their way into the street, or stay to be burned alive. The first to rush down the staircase
was Claudine, cage in hand. She ran into the street. A bomb-shell burst as she reached it,
and her terrified parents saw her drop upon the sidewalk, while the cage fell at some distance,
rolling away out of her hand.

When her father saw her dead, as he supposed, he rushed into the street, undaunted by the bursting
of the shell, and picking up her body, retreated with it under shelter of the porte cochère.

But Claudine was not dead, nor even wounded. She had fainted with fright, and as her parents
hung over her with tender words, she opened her blue eyes and smiled at them. A moment after,
she remembered her dear doves. Before any one could stop her or forbid her she ran back into
the street through bullets thick as hail, caught up her cage, and ran back with her recovered
treasures. A pétroleuse who had seen her stopped as she was setting fire to some furniture,
and cried out, with a mocking laugh,

"What was the use of running out to pick up those? They will be roast birds anyhow in the next
half-hour."

On hearing these cruel words little Claudine began to comprehend for the first time the greatness
of the danger. She drew back, darted a look of reproach at the vile woman who stood laughing
at her trouble, and then, with the big tears rolling down her cheeks, "God will know how to
keep them safe," she said, and opened the cage door. The doves flew out. They poised themselves
a moment; then they rose into the air, and flew away to seek a purer sky above the clouds of
smoke and sulphur. In spite of what the cruel woman said, the doves were saved.

A few moments later a drum was heard advancing up the street. The drummers marched at the head
of a body of troops--the soldiers had come! "Vive l'armée!" cried the frightened householders.

In an instant pétroleuses, robbers, and insurgents scattered in all directions. It is a queer
sight to see a French crowd run when the troops charge. Now, however, every soldier "thought
on vengeance." The incendiaries dropped fast before the iron hail.

Meantime all hands were busy putting out the flames. The fire was at last got under. The furniture
and wood-work of the first and second stories were badly burned and broken, but the rest of
the house was saved.

Claudine and her family went back into their rooms, and let in the light of day, the father
and mother blessing God for the timely arrival of the troops who had saved all Paris from fire
and pillage. By degrees they grew more calm. But one sad heart was inconsolable. Claudine's
share in the great catastrophe which had almost laid Paris "even with the ground" was the loss
of her dear turtle-doves.

The next morning when she came out early on the balcony to look at the blackened ruins of the
noble palace, and to mourn for her lost favorites, she uttered a cry of joy. Her doves sat
on the railing of the balcony. They had flown back to their little mistress and their home.

"Mamma! mamma!" she cried, "God has sent me back my doves!" and her little heart recovered
the happiness that in her inexperience she fancied had been lost forever.

JOHNNY'S SONG.

BY JOSEPHINE POLLARD.

  "Come, now, Johnny, sing me a song--
    Sing me a song," said Mabel.
  "I will," said Johnny, whose voice was strong,
    "For I'm the boy that is able."
  So he sang, and whistled, and sang again,
    Till all the woods were a-ringing,
  And Mabel frowned, and began to complain,
    "Why, Johnny, what's that you're singing?"

  "Don't you like it?" said Johnny Stout
    (Mabel her laugh must smother),
  As he straightened himself in his roundabout,
    And said, "I'll sing you another."
  He sang and whistled with might and main,
    Till Mabel's ears were a-ringing,
  And she stopped them up, and exclaimed again
    "Why, Johnny, what are you singing?"

  "That's Pinafore," said Johnny Stout,
    Who thought himself quite clever;
  "You've heard it often enough, no doubt."
    Said Mabel, "N--hardly ever."
  And she made up her mind that never again
    Would she ask Minnie Stout's big brother
  To sing her a song, when 'twas very plain
    He knew not one tune from another.

VIOLA'S SKETCH.

BY MRS. W. J. HAYS.

We had been staying at Dinan, a pretty and cheap little summer resting-place in Brittany, and
so picturesque were the costumes of the peasantry that Viola, my sister, was fascinated, and
her sketch-book was getting crammed, while I, more frivolous, was longing to be in Paris, where
I could go to the Bon Marché, see the newest fashions, and hear the latest doings and sayings
of the famous actress Sarah Bernhardt. Viola was always more sensible in some things than I,
but she was weak on jugs, and mugs, and rugs, and picturesque old rags, and old women, and
children; therefore it was no surprise to me, when we were on the road to the railway station,
and our trunks already well on the way toward Paris, to have her insist upon stopping to find
out what was the matter with a child who was crying bitterly. When, however, Viola discovered
that the child was the grand-daughter of old Margot, who had been our "maid-of-everything"
at the little cottage which aunt had hired for the season, who had cooked for us, and washed
for us, and gone to market for us, at some ridiculously low wages, there was no use in arguing
with her; stop she would, and alight she would from the queer old conveyance we were in--for
it was not the day for the diligence--and aunt had to wait, nolens volens--and that means willingly
if you choose, and unwillingly if you don't choose--and I had to wait, and I had to do all
the scolding, for aunt is as meek as a turtle-dove. And after a while both aunt and I were
just as much interested as was Viola, and there were we three all listening to little Suzette,
forgetful of the train and of Paris.

