After his journey and the campaign during which he had been deprived of all the comforts of
cleanliness and all the refinements of life, Prince Andrew felt a pleasant sense of repose
among luxurious surroundings such as he had been accustomed to from childhood. Besides it was
pleasant, after his reception by the Austrians, to speak if not in Russian (for they were speaking
French) at least with a Russian who would, he supposed, share the general Russian antipathy
to the Austrians which was then particularly strong.

Bilibin was a man of thirty-five, a bachelor, and of the same circle as Prince Andrew. They
had known each other previously in Petersburg, but had become more intimate when Prince Andrew
was in Vienna with Kutuzov. Just as Prince Andrew was a young man who gave promise of rising
high in the military profession, so to an even greater extent Bilibin gave promise of rising
in his diplomatic career. He still a young man but no longer a young diplomat, as he had entered
the service at the age of sixteen, had been in Paris and Copenhagen, and now held a rather
important post in Vienna. Both the foreign minister and our ambassador in Vienna knew him and
valued him. He was not one of those many diplomats who are esteemed because they have certain
negative qualities, avoid doing certain things, and speak French. He was one of those, who,
liking work, knew how to do it, and despite his indolence would sometimes spend a whole night
at his writing table. He worked well whatever the import of his work. It was not the question
"What for?" but the question "How?" that interested him. What the diplomatic matter might be
he did not care, but it gave him great pleasure to prepare a circular, memorandum, or report,
skillfully, pointedly, and elegantly. Bilibin's services were valued not only for what he wrote,
but also for his skill in dealing and conversing with those in the highest spheres.

Bilibin liked conversation as he liked work, only when it could be made elegantly witty. In
society he always awaited an opportunity to say something striking and took part in a conversation
only when that was possible. His conversation was always sprinkled with wittily original, finished
phrases of general interest. These sayings were prepared in the inner laboratory of his mind
in a portable form as if intentionally, so that insignificant society people might carry them
from drawing room to drawing room. And, in fact, Bilibin's witticisms were hawked about in
the Viennese drawing rooms and often had an influence on matters considered important.

His thin, worn, sallow face was covered with deep wrinkles, which always looked as clean and
well washed as the tips of one's fingers after a Russian bath. The movement of these wrinkles
formed the principal play of expression on his face. Now his forehead would pucker into deep
folds and his eyebrows were lifted, then his eyebrows would descend and deep wrinkles would
crease his cheeks. His small, deep-set eyes always twinkled and looked out straight.

"Well, now tell me about your exploits," said he.

Bolkonski, very modestly without once mentioning himself, described the engagement and his
reception by the Minister of War.

"They received me and my news as one receives a dog in a game of skittles," said he in conclusion.

Bilibin smiled and the wrinkles on his face disappeared.

"Cependant, mon cher," he remarked, examining his nails from a distance and puckering the skin
above his left eye, "malgre la haute estime que je professe pour the Orthodox Russian army,
j'avoue que votre victoire n'est pas des plus victorieuses." *

     * "But my dear fellow, with all my respect for the Orthodox
     Russian army, I must say that your victory was not
     particularly victorious."

He went on talking in this way in French, uttering only those words in Russian on which he
wished to put a contemptuous emphasis.

"Come now! You with all your forces fall on the unfortunate Mortier and his one division, and
even then Mortier slips through your fingers! Where's the victory?"

"But seriously," said Prince Andrew, "we can at any rate say without boasting that it was a
little better than at Ulm..."

"Why didn't you capture one, just one, marshal for us?"

"Because not everything happens as one expects or with the smoothness of a parade. We had expected,
as I told you, to get at their rear by seven in the morning but had not reached it by five
in the afternoon."

"And why didn't you do it at seven in the morning? You ought to have been there at seven in
the morning," returned Bilibin with a smile. "You ought to have been there at seven in the
morning."

"Why did you not succeed in impressing on Bonaparte by diplomatic methods that he had better
leave Genoa alone?" retorted Prince Andrew in the same tone.

"I know," interrupted Bilibin, "you're thinking it's very easy to take marshals, sitting on
a sofa by the fire! That is true, but still why didn't you capture him? So don't be surprised
if not only the Minister of War but also his Most August Majesty the Emperor and King Francis
is not much delighted by your victory. Even I, a poor secretary of the Russian Embassy, do
not feel any need in token of my joy to give my Franz a thaler, or let him go with his Liebchen
to the Prater... True, we have no Prater here..."

He looked straight at Prince Andrew and suddenly unwrinkled his forehead.

"It is now my turn to ask you 'why?' mon cher," said Bolkonski. "I confess I do not understand:
perhaps there are diplomatic subtleties here beyond my feeble intelligence, but I can't make
it out. Mack loses a whole army, the Archduke Ferdinand and the Archduke Karl give no signs
of life and make blunder after blunder. Kutuzov alone at last gains a real victory, destroying
the spell of the invincibility of the French, and the Minister of War does not even care to
hear the details."

"That's just it, my dear fellow. You see it's hurrah for the Tsar, for Russia, for the Orthodox
Greek faith! All that is beautiful, but what do we, I mean the Austrian court, care for your
victories? Bring us nice news of a victory by the Archduke Karl or Ferdinand (one archduke's
as good as another, as you know) and even if it is only over a fire brigade of Bonaparte's,
that will be another story and we'll fire off some cannon! But this sort of thing seems done
on purpose to vex us. The Archduke Karl does nothing, the Archduke Ferdinand disgraces himself.
You abandon Vienna, give up its defense--as much as to say: 'Heaven is with us, but heaven
help you and your capital!' The one general whom we all loved, Schmidt, you expose to a bullet,
and then you congratulate us on the victory! Admit that more irritating news than yours could
not have been conceived. It's as if it had been done on purpose, on purpose. Besides, suppose
you did gain a brilliant victory, if even the Archduke Karl gained a victory, what effect would
that have on the general course of events? It's too late now when Vienna is occupied by the
French army!"

"What? Occupied? Vienna occupied?"

"Not only occupied, but Bonaparte is at Schonbrunn, and the count, our dear Count Vrbna, goes
to him for orders."

After the fatigues and impressions of the journey, his reception, and especially after having
dined, Bolkonski felt that he could not take in the full significance of the words he heard.

"Count Lichtenfels was here this morning," Bilibin continued, "and showed me a letter in which
the parade of the French in Vienna was fully described: Prince Murat et tout le tremblement...
You see that your victory is not a matter for great rejoicing and that you can't be received
as a savior."

