At the first alarm, Bright-Wits instantly suspected treachery on the part of the two conspirators.
But investigation proved that they were no less mystified by the strange disappearance than
he himself. Six days passed without any tidings, and Bright-Wits, frantic with fear and suspense,
was almost in despair. The most puzzling feature of the whole affair was the fact that Azalia
apparently evinced no concern. This was surprising in view of the affection which Bright-Wits
knew her to cherish for the missing Brahman. When he chided her for this seeming heartlessness,
she but smiled at him; nor would tell him what she knew. Imagine, then, the general surprise
when, on the seventh day, Ablano returned as mysteriously as he had vanished. To all inquiries
as to his absence Ablano remained deaf. With him there had come three strangers, who from their
dress and appearance were inhabitants of the great desert to the north of Parrabang.

When the excitement had in some measure subsided, and the wanderer had embraced Bright-Wits
and Azalia, Ablano turned to Garrofat and thus addressed him, "Know, thou who art called Garrofat,
that with pride I have watched the success of my dearly beloved pupil in the performance of
the various tasks which you have seen fit to impose upon him. Now I, myself, would fain submit
to him a question; that I may put to the test his wisdom and justice and learn if all my teachings
have borne good fruit. Now two of these dwellers in the desert whom you see here with me halted
to-day by the wayside and prepared to break their fast. The food between them consisted of
eight small loaves; one possessing five, and the other, three. Now as they seated themselves
this third man arrived and they offered unto him a share of their food. During the meal all
ate of the loaves in equal portion. The repast over, their guest threw down eight pieces of
money in payment for his share. Dissension now began. He who had the five loaves claimed five
coins; but the other objected, and insisted that as all had partaken equally of the food that
the money should be divided equally; each taking four coins. They were still disputing when
I overtook them, and they begged me to settle the matter. Now Bright-Wits, I put the question
to you. What would be a proper division of the money, so that each may have justice?"

Sorely puzzled, the prince knit his brows in thought; while Garrofat and Doola grinned broadly
at the prospect of his failure. Their joy was short-lived, however, as, with a smile to Ablano,
Bright-Wits announced that both of the strangers were in the wrong. Then he pointed out the
proper distribution of the coins. Now when the prince had answered Ablano embraced him; saying,
"verily am I proud of thee, my son and pupil. Be of good heart. Your reward is near."

Garrofat and Doola, who for the moment were forgotten, now claimed attention. Ordering Bright-Wits
to draw near, the crafty Vizier Garrofat thus addressed him, "Know thou, most wise and fortunate
of princes, that I have one other task to put to you. Now as this one may be the last, I would
give much thought to it to the end that it prove the supreme test of the boasted brightness
of your wits. To-night, therefore, I will endeavour to devise such a task that your successful
accomplishment of it will prove to all the world that you are in truth wise enough to sit upon
the throne of the Great Onalba." So saying he dismissed the assembled people, and beckoning
Doola, sought the seclusion of his own apartment.

