Our request being granted, our guide laid aside her plums, and with a kind hand admitted us
into the entrance-hall. It was low and venerable, with family-portraits on the walls, among
them that of the Mr. Chaworth whom the "wicked Lord Byron" of other days shot in a duel. From
the hall we entered the modern part of the house, harmoniously blended with the older portion
of the building. In the drawing-room, two noble portraits by Sir Joshua Reynolds arrested our
attention. The lady (as Miss Burney tells us in her journal) was a beauty and a belle of Sir
Joshua's time, and the painter has done justice to his subject, who is drawn at full length,
feeding an eagle,--a spirited, splendid woman, who looks down from the canvas with bright,
triumphant eyes. In the next apartment we were shown a portrait which touched deeper chords
in our heart. It was a likeness of Mary Chaworth in miniature, representing a mature and beautiful
woman.

The truth of this description startled us, and revealed instantly how deeply impressed upon
the mind of her youthful lover must have been that face which was the starlight of his boyhood.
Tears had passed since they parted, and chasms of time and gulfs yet deeper and wider than
time ever knows had separated Byron from Annesley and England, and yet, when he wrote those
lines, her face rose before him so clearly, wearing on its loveliness the impress of care and
sorrow which he knew must be there, that no words but his can truly describe the expression
of her features. Turning to our conductress, we asked if she had ever seen the Lady of Annesley.
"Yes, I knew and loved her well, for I was her maid many years"; and, with a faltering tone,
she added, "she died in my arms." Genius has immortalized Mary Chaworth; yet the tender and
heartfelt tribute of one who had been the humble, but daily witness of the beauty of her life,
was worth a thousand homilies.

We were conducted through the library, which had been in other days the drawing-room, out of
which opens a small apartment, known to the readers of the "Dream" as the "antique oratory."
Leading from the old entrance-hall is the favorite sitting-room of Mary Chaworth in her happy
childhood and youth; and here, in his boyish days, Byron often sat beside her while she played
for him his favorite airs on the piano-forte. Beneath the window is a little garden, where
she cultivated the flowers she loved best, and which are still cherished for her memory. Our
guide gathered a few of these, and gave them to our young companion: they now lie before us,
carefully preserved, with some of their gay tints yet unfaded,--memorials, not only of Mary
Chaworth, who lived and loved and suffered through all the varied experience of woman's life,
but also of her to whom the blossoms were given, the fair, young girl, "who lived long enough
on earth to learn its better lessons, but passed from it upwards and onwards without a knowledge
of sin except the shadow it casts on the world."

A holy stillness pervaded the venerable house and its surrounding scenery, a peace which breathed
of a purer sphere, where what is best on earth finds its correspondence.

We wondered not, that, when the deep waters of the poet's soul, too often ruffled by passion,
polluted by vice, or made turbid by selfishness, were calm and pure enough to mirror heaven,
they ever reflected the bright and morning star of Annesley.

