It is customary and proper to preface a work which is based entirely on the labours of other
people with an acknowledgment of the sources whence it is drawn; and yet in the case of Columbus
I do not know where to begin.  In one way I am indebted to every serious writer who has even
remotely concerned himself with the subject, from Columbus himself and Las Casas down to the
editors of the Raccolta.  The chain of historians has been so unbroken, the apostolic succession,
so to speak, has passed with its heritage so intact from generation to generation, that the
latest historian enshrines in his work the labours of all the rest. Yet there are necessarily
some men whose work stands out as being more immediately seizable than that of others; in the
period of whose care the lamp of inspiration has seemed to burn more brightly.  In a matter
of this kind I cannot pretend to be a judge, but only to state my own experience and indebtedness;
and in my work I have been chiefly helped by Las Casas, indirectly of course by Ferdinand Columbus,
Herrera, Oviedo, Bernaldez, Navarrete, Asensio, Mr. Payne, Mr. Harrisse, Mr. Vignaud, Mr. Winsor,
Mr. Thacher, Sir Clements Markham, Professor de Lollis, and S. Salvagnini.  It is thus not
among the dusty archives of Seville, Genoa, or San Domingo that I have searched, but in the
archive formed by the writings of modern workers.  To have myself gone back to original sources,
even if I had been competent to do so, would have been in the case of Columbian research but
a waste of time and a doing over again what has been done already with patience, diligence,
and knowledge.  The historians have been committed to the austere task of finding out and examining
every fact and document in connection with their subject; and many of these facts and documents
are entirely without human interest except in so far as they help to establish a date, a name,
or a sum of money.  It has been my agreeable and lighter task to test and assay the masses
of bed-rock fact thus excavated by the historians for traces of the particular ore which I
have been seeking.  In fact I have tried to discover, from a reverent examination of all these
monographs, essays, histories, memoirs, and controversies concerning what Christopher Columbus
did, what Christopher Columbus was; believing as I do that any labour by which he can be made
to live again, and from the dust of more than four hundred years be brought visibly to the
mind's eye, will not be entirely without use and interest.  Whether I have succeeded in doing
so or not I cannot be the judge; I can only say that the labour of resuscitating a man so long
buried beneath mountains of untruth and controversy has some times been so formidable as to
have seemed hopeless. And yet one is always tempted back by the knowledge that Christopher
Columbus is not only a name, but that the human being whom we so describe did actually once
live and walk in the world; did actually sail and look upon seas where we may also sail and
look; did stir with his feet the indestructible dust of this old Earth, and centre in himself,
as we all do, the whole interest and meaning of the Universe.  Truly the most commonplace fact,
yet none the less amazing; and often when in the dust of documents he has seemed most dead
and unreal to me I have found courage from the entertainment of some deep or absurd reflection;
such as that he did once undoubtedly, like other mortals, blink and cough and blow his nose.
And if my readers could realise that fact throughout every page of this book, I should say
that I had succeeded in my task.

To be more particular in my acknowledgments.  In common with every modern writer on Columbus--and
modern research on the history of Columbus is only thirty years old--I owe to the labours of
Mr. Henry Harrisse, the chief of modern Columbian historians, the indebtedness of the gold-miner
to the gold-mine.  In the matters of the Toscanelli correspondence and the early years of Columbus
I have followed more closely Mr. Henry Vignaud, whose work may be regarded as a continuation
and reexamination --in some cases destructive--of that of Mr. Harrisse.  Mr. Vignaud's work
is happily not yet completed; we all look forward eagerly to the completion of that part of
his 'Etudes Critiques' dealing with the second half of the Admiral's life; and Mr. Vignaud
seems to me to stand higher than all modern workers in this field in the patient and fearless
discovery of the truth regarding certain very controversial matters, and also in ability to
give a sound and reasonable interpretation to those obscurer facts or deductions in Columbus's
life that seem doomed never to be settled by the aid of documents alone.  It may be unseemly
in me not to acknowledge indebtedness to Washington Irving,  but I cannot conscientiously do
so.  If I had been writing ten or fifteen years ago I might have taken his work seriously;
but it is impossible that anything so one-sided, so inaccurate, so untrue to life, and so profoundly
dull could continue to exist save in the absence of any critical knowledge or light on the
subject.  All that can be said for him is that he kept the lamp of interest in Columbus alive
for English readers during the period that preceded the advent of modern critical research.
Mr. Major's edition' of Columbus's letters has been freely consulted by me, as it must be by
any one interested in the subject.  Professor Justin Winsor's work has provided an invaluable
store of ripe scholarship in matters of cosmography and geographical detail; Sir Clements Markham's
book, by far the most trustworthy of modern English works on the subject, and a valuable record
of the established facts in Columbus's life, has proved a sound guide in nautical matters;
while the monograph of Mr. Elton, which apparently did not promise much at first, since the
author has followed some untrustworthy leaders as regards his facts, proved to be full of a
fragrant charm produced by the writer's knowledge of and interest in sub-tropical vegetation;
and it is delightfully filled with the names of gums and spices.  To Mr. Vignaud I owe special
thanks, not only for the benefits of his research and of his admirable works on Columbus, but
also for personal help and encouragement.  Equally cordial thanks are due to Mr. John Boyd
Thacher,  whose work, giving as it does so large a selection of the Columbus documents both
in facsimile, transliteration, and translation, is of the greatest service to every English
writer on the subject of Columbus.  It is the more to be regretted, since the documentary part
of Mr. Thacher's work is so excellent, that in his critical studies he should have seemed to
ignore some of the more important results of modern research.  I am further particularly indebted
to Mr. Thacher and to his publishers, Messrs.  Putnam's Sons, for permission to reproduce certain
illustrations in his work, and to avail myself also of his copies and translations of original
Spanish and Italian documents.  I have to thank Commendatore Guido Biagi, the keeper of the
Laurentian Library in Florence, for his very kind help and letters of introduction to Italian
librarians; Mr. Raymond Beazley, of Merton College, Oxford, for his most helpful correspondence;
and Lord Dunraven for so kindly bringing, in the interests of my readers, his practical knowledge
of navigation and seamanship to bear on the first voyage of Columbus.  Finally my work has
been helped and made possible by many intimate and personal kindnesses which, although they
are not specified, are not the less deeply acknowledged.

September 1906.

THE INNER LIGHT

BOOK I.

CHAPTER I

THE STREAM OF THE WORLD

A man standing on the sea-shore is perhaps as ancient and as primitive a symbol of wonder as
the mind can conceive.  Beneath his feet are the stones and grasses of an element that is his
own, natural to him, in some degree belonging to him, at any rate accepted by him.  He has
place and condition there.  Above him arches a world of immense void, fleecy sailing clouds,
infinite clear blueness, shapes that change and dissolve; his day comes out of it, his source
of light and warmth marches across it, night falls from it; showers and dews also, and the
quiet influence of stars.  Strange that impalpable element must be, and for ever unattainable
by him; yet with its gifts of sun and shower, its furniture of winged life that inhabits also
on the friendly soil, it has links and partnerships with life as he knows it and is a complement
of earthly conditions.  But at his feet there lies the fringe of another element, another condition,
of a vaster and more simple unity than earth or air, which the primitive man of our picture
knows to be not his at all.  It is fluent and unstable, yet to be touched and felt; it rises
and falls, moves and frets about his very feet, as though it had a life and entity of its own,
and was engaged upon some mysterious business.  Unlike the silent earth and the dreaming clouds
it has a voice that fills his world and, now low, now loud, echoes throughout his waking and
sleeping life. Earth with her sprouting fruits behind and beneath him; sky, and larks singing,
above him; before him, an eternal alien, the sea: he stands there upon the shore, arrested,
wondering.  He lives,--this man of our figure; he proceeds, as all must proceed, with the task
and burden of life.  One by one its miracles are unfolded to him; miracles of fire and cold,
and pain and pleasure; the seizure of love, the terrible magic of reproduction, the sad miracle
of death.  He fights and lusts and endures; and, no more troubled by any wonder, sleeps at
last.  But throughout the days of his life, in the very act of his rude existence, this great
tumultuous presence of the sea troubles and overbears him.  Sometimes in its bellowing rage
it terrifies him, sometimes in its tranquillity it allures him; but whatever he is doing, grubbing
for roots, chipping experimentally with bones and stones, he has an eye upon it; and in his
passage by the shore he pauses, looks, and wonders.  His eye is led from the crumbling snow
at his feet, past the clear green of the shallows, beyond the furrows of the nearer waves,
to the calm blue of the distance; and in his glance there shines again that wonder, as in his
breast stirs the vague longing and unrest that is the life-force of the world.

What is there beyond?  It is the eternal question asked by the finite of the infinite, by the
mortal of the immortal; answer to it there is none save in the unending preoccupation of life
and labour.  And if this old question was in truth first asked upon the sea-shore, it was asked
most often and with the most painful wonder upon western shores, whence the journeying sun
was seen to go down and quench himself in the sea.  The generations that followed our primitive
man grew fast in knowledge, and perhaps for a time wondered the less as they knew the more;
but we may be sure they never ceased to wonder at what might lie beyond the sea.  How much
more must they have wondered if they looked west upon the waters, and saw the sun of each succeeding
day sink upon a couch of glory where they could not follow?  All pain aspires to oblivion,
all toil to rest, all troubled discontent with what is present to what is unfamiliar and far
away; and no power of knowledge and scientific fact will ever prevent human unhappiness from
reaching out towards some land of dreams of which the burning brightness of a sea sunset is
an image.  Is it very hard to believe, then, that in that yearning towards the miracle of a
sun quenched in sea distance, felt and felt again in human hearts through countless generations,
the westward stream of human activity on this planet had its rise?  Is it unreasonable to picture,
on an earth spinning eastward, a treadmill rush of feet to follow the sinking light?  The history
of man's life in this world does not, at any rate, contradict us. Wisdom, discovery, art, commerce,
science, civilisation have all moved west across our world; have all in their cycles followed
the sun; have all, in their day of power, risen in the East and set in the West.

This stream of life has grown in force and volume with the passage of ages.  It has always
set from shore to sea in countless currents of adventure and speculation; but it has set most
strongly from East to West.  On its broad bosom the seeds of life and knowledge have been carried
throughout the world.  It brought the people of Tyre and Carthage to the coasts and oceans
of distant worlds; it carried the English from Jutland across cold and stormy waters to the
islands of their conquest; it carried the Romans across half the world; it bore the civilisation
of the far East to new life and virgin western soils; it carried the new West to the old East,
and is in our day bringing back again the new East to the old West.  Religions, arts, tradings,
philosophies, vices and laws have been borne, a strange flotsam, upon its unchanging flood.
It has had its springs and neaps, its trembling high-water marks, its hour of affluence, when
the world has been flooded with golden humanity; its ebb and effluence also, when it has seemed
to shrink and desert the kingdoms set upon its shores.  The fifteenth century in Western Europe
found it at a pause in its movements: it had brought the trade and the learning of the East
to the verge of the Old World, filling the harbours of the Mediterranean with ships and the
monasteries of Italy and Spain with wisdom; and in the subsequent and punctual decadence that
followed this flood, there gathered in the returning tide a greater energy and volume which
was to carry the Old World bodily across the ocean.  And yet, for all their wisdom and power,
the Spanish and Portuguese were still in the attitude of our primitive man, standing on the
sea-shore and looking out in wonder across the sea.

