    "Mr. ---- has been actively connected with the last two Victory
    Loan drives, in the last one raising $15,282,000. As an
    appreciation of his work the salesmen presented him with a
    (fifteen million dollar) diamond ring."--Canadian Paper. Yet these are
admirable of their kind--"muffin-tales" is my own name for them, of
just the length to hold your attention for a solitary tea-hour and
each with some novelty of idea or distinction in treatment that makes
the next page worth turning. The central theme of all is, of course,
the same: the War in its effect upon people at the fighting front and
elsewhere. Perhaps it was inevitable that Mr. MAXWELL should betray a
certain faintly cynical amusement in his dealings with the people of
elsewhere. Two of the stories especially--"The Strain of It" and "What
Edie Regretted"--are grimly illustrative of some home-keeping types
for whom the great tragedy served only as an opportunity for social
advancement or a pleasantly-thrilling excuse for futilities. There
will be no reader who will not smilingly acknowledge the justice of
these sketches; not one of us whose neighbours could not supply an
original for them. Fortunately the book has other tales of which the
humour is less caustic; probably of intention Mr. MAXWELL'S pictures
of war as the soldier knew it, its hardships and compensations,
contrast poignantly with the others. On the active-service side my
choice would undoubtedly be for the admirably cheery and well-told
"Christmas is Christmas" (not exactly about fraternization), as
convincing a realisation of the Front at its best as any I remember to
have read in more pretentious volumes.

I am bound to admit that for all my appreciation of Mr. J.D. BERESFORD as a literary craftsman
I did find The Jervaise Comedy (COLLINS) a bit slow off the mark. Here is a quite considerable
volume, exquisitely printed upon delightful paper, all about the events of twenty-four hours,
in which, when you come to consider it afterwards, nothing very much happened. The heroine
thought about eloping with the chauffeur, and the onlooker, who tells the tale, thought about
falling in love with the sister of the same. In both cases thought is subsequently translated
into action, but only after the curtains fall. Meanwhile an affair of hesitations, suggestions,
moods and (as I hinted above) rather too many words. It is a. tribute to Mr. BERESFORD'S art
that out of all this we do eventually emerge with some definite idea of the characters and
a pleasantly-amused interest in their fate. There is, of course, plenty of distinction in the
writing. But I could have wished more or earlier movement. Even the motor-car, whose appearance
promised a hint, the merest far-off possibility, of farcical developments, shared in the general
lethargy and refused to move from its ditch. In spite, however, of this procrastination I wish
it to be understood that the story is in some ways one of unusual charm; it has style, atmosphere
and a very sensible dignity. But, lacking the confidence that I fortunately had in my author,
I question whether I should have survived to the point at which these qualities became apparent.

       *       *       *       *       *

An author who in his first novel can deliberately put himself in the way of temptation and
as unhesitatingly avoid it must be worth following. And so, if for no other reason, one might
look forward to Mr. BERNARD DUFFY'S next book with uncommon interest. His hero comes into the
story as a foundling, being deposited in a humble Irish home and an atmosphere of mystery by
some woman unknown; he is supported thereafter by sufficiently suggestive remittances, and
he passes through a Bohemian boyhood and a more normal though still intriguing early struggle
and fluctuating love-story to eventual success, always with the glamour of conventional romance
about him, only to turn out nobody in particular in the end. Congratulations! One was horribly
afraid he would be compelled to be at least the acknowledged heir to a title. Quite apart from
this, too, Oriel (FISHER UNWIN) is after an unassuming fashion one of the most easily and happily
read and, one would say, happily written books that has appeared for many a long day, with
humour that is Irish without being too broadly of the brogue, and with people who are distinctive
without ever becoming unnatural. The dear old tramping quack-doctor, Oriel's foster-father,
in particular might well be praised in language that would sound exaggerated. Mr. DUFFY'S work,
depending as it does mainly on a flow of charming and even exquisite side incident, suggests
that he is no more than beginning to tap a most extensive reservoir. I greatly hope that this
is the case.

       *       *       *       *       *

I gather that The Son of Tarzan (METHUEN) is the fourth of a Tarzan series by Mr. EDGAR RICE
BURROUGHS, who specialises in an exciting brand of hero, half ape, half man. Tarzan père had
been suckled and reared by a proud ape foster-mother, and after many jungle adventures had
settled down as Lord Greystoke. This latest instalment of the Tarzan chronicles finds the Greystokes
somewhat anxious about the restlessness and unconventional tastes of their schoolboy son, who
inherits not only his father's vague jungle longings but all his explicit acquired characteristics,
so that when, with the decent old ape, Akut, disguised as his invalid grandmother, he sails
away from England and plunges into the wild he promptly becomes the terror of the jungle and
bites the jugular veins of hostile man and beast with such a precision of technique that he
becomes king of the ape-folk, as his father, Tarzan, had been before him. Plausibility, even
within the limits of his bizarre plan, is not Mr. BURROUGHS' strong suit, but exciting incident,
ingeniously imagined and staged, with swift movement, undoubtedly is. If the author wouldn't
let his favourites off so easily and would give their enemies a better sporting chance, he
would more readily sustain the illusion which is of the essence of real enjoyment in this kind
of fantasy. But I imagine the normal human boy will find nothing whatever to complain of, and
to him I chiefly commend this yarn.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Tale of Mr. Tubbs (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) is one of those which hover agreeably between
low comedy and refined farce, in a world which, being frankly to the last degree improbable,
makes no urgent demand for belief. Sometimes indeed (as I have observed before with Mr. J.E.
BUCKROSE) the characters themselves are more credible than the way in which they carry on.
Thus while Mr. Tubbs, the middle-aged and high-principled champion of distress, is both human
and likeable, I was never persuaded that any more real motive than regard for an amusing situation
would compel him to saddle himself with the continued society of a squint-eyed maid-servant
and her yellow cat, turned adrift through his unfortunate attempts to befriend them. I think
I need not tell you all, or even a part of all, that happens to Mr. Tubbs and Belinda and the
yellow cat after their arrival as fugitives at the pleasant village of Holmes-Eaton, or do
more than hint at the trials of this poor knight-errant, mistaken for a burglar and a libertine,
till the hour when (the book being sufficiently full) he is rewarded with the hand of beauty
and the prospect of what I will venture to call a Buckroseate future. They were no more than
his due for remaining a consistent gentleman amid the temptations of farce. One word of criticism
however; surely Mr. BUCKROSE has made a study of The Boy's Own Paper less intimate than mine
if he supposes that a story with such a title as "The Red Robbers of Ravenhill" could ever
have gained admittance to those chaste columns.

       *       *       *       *       *

John Justinian Jellicoe, the hero's father in The Quest of the Golden Spurs (JARROLD), possessed
a secretive and peculiar disposition. Not only did he conceal his true nature from his son,
but he also left a will with some remarkable clauses which made it necessary for J.J.J., Junior,
to work and wait for his inheritance; and it is the tale of his search for it that Mr. SHAUN
MALORY tells us here. Perhaps I have known treasure-hunts in which I have followed the scent
with a more abandoned interest. But we are given some fine hunting, with a surprise at the
end of it, and what more can treasure-hunters, or we who read of them, possibly want? The date
of this quest is modern, and more than once I found myself thinking that the twentieth century
was not the fittest period in which to lay such a plot as this. But I am content to believe
that Mr. MALORY knows his business better than I do, and as--like a good huntsman--he has left
me with a keen desire to go a-hunting with him again, I beg to thank him for my day's sport.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR ERUDITE CONTEMPORARIES.

    "After the tremendous battles of the present war, even such
    actions as Marlborough's victories--Dettingen, Luicelles,
    Vittoria, Waterloo, and Inkerman--seem insignificant by
    comparison."--Daily Paper.

We don't suppose the shades of GEORGE II., WELLINGTON and RAGLAN will worry much about this
annexation of their triumphs, but Lord LAKE'S ghost will be seriously annoyed at the misspelling
of Lincelles.

       *       *       *       *       *

Extract from a letter received from a well-known wholesale tobacconist:--

    "We think that if you will apply to either of the three
    tobacconists, whose names and addresses we append, you will
    have no difficulty in obtaining an inadequate supply for your
    requirements."

Judging by our own experiences we are jolly well sure of it.