Arriving in Iskender, Hadji Ahmet roamed far and wide, proceeding as far as Cairo, in search
of the luxuries he had enjoyed at Constantinople when in the land of Morpheus, which he had
been promised to enjoy in the sunshine, if he came to Egypt. Alas! for Hadji Ahmet; the only
bread he had to eat was that which was given him by sympathizing humanity. Time sped on, sympathy
was growing tired of expending itself on Hadji Ahmet, and his crusts of bread were few and
far between.

Wearied of life and suffering, he decided to ask Allah to let him die, and wandering out to
the Pyramids he solicited the stones to have pity and fall on him. It happened that a Turk
heard this prayer, and said to him:

"Why so miserable, father? Has your soul been so strangled that you prefer its being dashed
out of your body, to its remaining the prescribed time in bondage?"

"Yes, my son," said Hadji Ahmet. "Far away in Stamboul, with the help of God, I managed as
a junkman to feed my wife and myself; but here am I, in Egypt, a stranger, alone and starving,
with possibly my wife already dead of starvation, and all this through a dream."

"Alas! Alas! my father! that you at your age should be tempted to wander so far from home and
friends, because of a dream. Why, were I to obey my dreams, I would at this present moment
be in Stamboul, digging for a treasure that lies buried under a tree. I can even now, although
I have never been there, describe where it is. In my mind's eye I see a wall, a great wall,
that must have been built many years ago, and supporting or seeming to support this wall are
towers with many corners, towers that are round, towers that are square, and others that have
smaller towers within them. In one of these towers, a square one, there live an old man and
woman, and close by the tower is a large tree, and every night when I dream of the place, the
old man tells me to dig and disclose the treasure. But, father, I am not such a fool as to
go to Stamboul and seek to verify this. It is an oft-repeated dream and nothing more. See what
you have been reduced to by coming so far."

"Yes," said Hadji Ahmet, "it is a dream and nothing more, but you have interpreted it. Allah
be praised, you have encouraged me; I will return to my home."

And Hadji Ahmet and the young stranger parted, the one grateful that it had pleased Allah to
give him the power to revive and encourage a drooping spirit, and the other grateful to Allah
that when he had despaired of life a stranger should come and give him the interpretation of
his dream. He certainly had wandered far and long to learn that the treasure was in his own garden.

Hadji Ahmet in due course, much to the astonishment of both wife and neighbors, again appeared
upon the scene not a much changed man. In fact, he was the cinder and iron gatherer of old.

To all questions as to where he was and what he had been doing, he would answer: "A dream sent
me away, and a dream brought me back."

And the neighbors would say: "Truly he must be blessed."

One night Hadji Ahmet went to the tree, provided with spade and pick, that he had secured from
an obliging neighbor. After digging a short time a heavy case was brought to view, in which
he found gold, silver, and precious jewels of great value. Hadji Ahmet replaced the case and
earth and returned to bed, much lamenting that it had pleased God to furnish women, more especially
his wife, with a long tongue, long hair, and very short wits. Alas! he thought, if I tell my
wife, I may be hung as a robber, for it is against the laws of nature for a woman to keep a
secret. Yet, becoming more generous when thinking of the years of toil and hardship she had
shared with him, he decided to try and see if, by chance, his wife was not an exception to
other women. Who knows, she might keep the secret. To test her, at no risk to himself and the
treasure, he conceived a plan.

Crawling from his bed, he sallied forth and bought, found, or stole an egg. This egg on the
following morning he showed to his wife, and said to her:

"Alas! I fear I am not as other men, for evidently in the night I laid this egg; and, wife
mine, if the neighbors hear of this, your husband, the long-suffering Hadji Ahmet, will be
bastinadoed, bowstrung, and burned to death. Ah, truly, my soul is strangled."

And without another word Hadji Ahmet, with a sack on his shoulder, went forth to gather the
cast-off shoes of horse, ox, or ass, wondering if his wife would prove an exception in this,
as she had in many other ways, to other women.

In the evening he returned, heavily laden with his finds, and as he neared home he heard rumors,
ominous rumors, that a certain Hadji Ahmet, who had been considered a holy man, had done something
that was unknown in the history of man, even in the history of hens--that he had laid a dozen eggs.

Needless to add that Hadji Ahmet did not tell his wife of the treasure, but daily went forth
with his sack to gather iron and cinders, and invariably found, when separating his finds of
the day, in company with his wife, at first one, and then more gold and silver pieces, and
now and then a precious stone.

HOW CHAPKIN HALID BECAME CHIEF DETECTIVE

In Balata there lived, some years ago, two scapegraces, called Chapkin Halid and Pitch Osman.
These two young rascals lived by their wits and at the expense of their neighbors. But they
often had to lament the ever-increasing difficulties they encountered in procuring the few
piasters they needed daily for bread and the tavern. They had tried several schemes in their
own neighborhood, with exceptionally poor results, and were almost disheartened when Chapkin
Halid conceived an idea that seemed to offer every chance of success. He explained to his chum
Osman that Balata was "played out," at least for a time, and that they must go elsewhere to
satisfy their needs. Halid's plan was to go to Stamboul, and feign death in the principal street,
while Osman was to collect the funeral expenses of his friend Halid.

Arriving in Stamboul, Halid stretched himself on his back on the pavement and covered his face
with an old sack, while Osman sat himself down beside the supposed corpse, and every now and
then bewailed the hard fate of the stranger who had met with death on the first day of his
arrival. The corpse prompted Osman whenever the coast was clear, and the touching tale told
by Osman soon brought contributions for the burial of the stranger. Osman had collected about
thirty piasters, and Halid was seriously thinking of a resurrection, but was prevented by the
passing of the Grand Vizier, who, upon inquiring why the man lay on the ground in that fashion,
was told that he was a stranger who had died in the street. The Grand Vizier thereupon gave
instructions to an Imam, who happened to be at hand, to bury the stranger and come for the
money to the Sublime Porte.

