  Thomas De Quincey and His Writings. By L. W. Spring, 650

  Thomas Jefferson, as Seen in the Light of 1863. By J. Sheldon, 129

  Thought. By Virginia Vaughan, 577

  Union Not to be Maintained by Force. By Hon. Frederick P. Stanton, 73

  Was He Successful?

Time makes many dark things clear, and often in a wonderfully short and decisive way. So we
said hopefully two years and more ago in regard to one of the unsolved problems which then
pressed on the minds of thoughtful men--how, namely, it was to fare with slavery in the progress
and sequel of the war. The history of our national struggle has illustrated the truth and justified
the hope. Time has quite nearly solved that problem and some others almost equally perplexing.
The stream of historical causes has borne the nation onward on the bosom of its inevitable
flow, until we can now almost see clear through to the end; at any rate, we have reached a
point where we can look backward and forward with perhaps greater advantage than at any former
period. What changes of opinion have been wrought! How many doubts resolved! How many fears
dispelled! How many old prejudices and preconceived notions have been abandoned! How many vexed
questions put at rest! How many things have safely got an established place among accepted
and almost generally acceptable facts, which were once matters of loyal foreboding and of disloyal
denunciation! No man of good sense and loyalty now doubts the rightfulness and wisdom of depriving
the rebels of the aid derived from their slaves, and making them an element of strength on
our side; while the fact that the enfranchised slaves make good soldiers, is put beyond question
by an amenability to military discipline and a bravery in battle not surpassed by any troops
in the world.

HAS THE WAR GONE SLOWLY?

The work of subduing the rebellion has gone slowly as compared with the impatient demands of
an indignant people at the outset; but not slowly if you consider the vast theatre of the war,
the immense extent of the lines of military operations, and the prodigious advantages possessed
by the rebels at the beginning--partly advantages such as always attend the first outbreak
of a revolutionary conspiracy long matured in secret against an unsuspecting and unprepared
Government, and partly the extraordinary and peculiar advantages that accrued to them from
the traitorous complicity of Buchanan's Administration, through which the conspirators were
enabled to rob the national treasury, strip the Government of arms, and possess themselves
of national forts, arsenals, and munitions of war, before the conflict began.

NOT TOO SLOW--WHY? SLAVERY.

But either way the war has not gone too slowly with reference to its great end--the establishment
of a durable peace. If the rebellion had been crushed at once by overwhelming force, it would
have been crushed only to break out anew. Slavery would have been left unimpaired, and that
would inevitably have entailed another conflict in no long time. In the interest of slavery
the rebels have drawn the sword; let slavery perish by the sword. In the interest of slavery
they have attempted to overthrow the National Government and to dismember the national domain;
let slavery be overthrown to maintain the Government and to preserve the integrity of the nation.
Let the cause of the war perish with the war. Not until slavery is extinguished can there be
a lasting peace; for not until then can the conditions of true national unity begin to exist.
What wise and good man would wish to save it from extinction? It is as incompatible with the
highest prosperity of the South as it is with a true national union between the South and the
North. Once extinguished, there will be a thousand-fold increase in every element of Southern
welfare, economical, social, and moral; and possibilities of national wealth and strength,
greatness and glory, above every nation on the globe, will be established. Let slavery go down.
Let us rejoice that in the progress and sequel of this war, it must and will go down.

EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.

Looking back, we can now see that much that was trying to the patience of the loyal masses
of the North in the early stages of the war, has only served to make it more certain that what
ought to be will be. Time has done justice to the idiotic policy of fighting the rebellion
with one hand and with the other upholding the institution that constituted at once its motive
and its strength. Time has brought policy and justice to shake hands together at the right
moment on the same road, and made that respectable and acceptable as a military necessity which
was once repudiated as a fanaticism. Time has brought out the President's Emancipation Proclamation,
and established it on a firm basis in the judgment and consent of all wise and true loyal men,
North and South--to the great discomfiture of sundry politicians--the utterances of some of
whom not long ago can be no otherwise taken than as the revelation and despairing death wail
of disconcerted schemes. Strange that men whose whole lives have been passed in forecasting
public opinion for their political uses, should have rushed upon the thick bosses of the great
shield of the public will, which begirts the President and his Emancipation Proclamation;--for
certainly all the railing at radicalism, which we heard in certain quarters last summer, was
in fact nothing but the expression of disappointment and chagrin at the emancipation policy
of the President, and that too at a time when that policy had come to be accepted by the great
body of the loyal people of the nation (including all the eminent Southern loyalists), as not
only indispensable to the national salvation, but desirable in every view. Strange that at
such a time, and among those once active and influential in the formation of the Republican
party--a party born of the roused spirit of resistance to slavery aggressions--there should
have been found a single person unable to discern and to accept the inevitable logic of events
which was to make the extinction of slavery the only wise, practicable, and truly loyal stand
point. Strange that any Republican should be disposed to put a stop to the 'irrepressible conflict.'
It was too late in the day to attempt the organization of a great, victorious Conservative
party by splitting up the old organizations. The old organizations may fall to pieces. It is
best, perhaps, they should--but not to form a Conservative party. Conservatism is not now to
the popular taste. It means nothing but the saving of slavery, and the great body of the loyal
people now feel absolved from all obligation to save it; they do not care to have it saved;
and the vaticinations of those prophets of evil who predicted disaster and ruin to the national
cause from the emancipation policy of the Government excite no consternation in the loyal heart
of the nation.

In a review of the conduct of the war, how little reason appears for regret and how much for
satisfaction in regard to all the great measures of the Government!

THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM.

The successful working of the financial system has demonstrated the wisdom of its principles.
Instead of following the old wretched way of throwing an immense amount of stocks into market
at a sacrifice of fifteen to thirty per cent., the Government has got all the money it wanted
at half or a little more than half the usual rate of interest. It would have been better if
the currency had been made to consist wholly of United States legal-tender notes, fundable
in six per cent., bonds--with a proper provision for the interest and for a sinking fund.

But the financial system adopted is a matter of satisfaction, apart from its admirable success
in furnishing the Government with the means to carry on the war: it is the inauguration of
sounder principles on currency than have heretofore prevailed, which, if unfolded and carried
legitimately out, will give the country the best currency in the world--perfectly secured,
uniform in value at every point, and liable to no disastrous expansions and contractions. The
notion that any great industrial, manufacturing, and commercial nation can conduct its business--any
more than it can carry on a great war--with a specie currency alone, is indeed exploded; but
the notion that a paper currency to be safe must be based on specie, still prevails--although
the currency furnished by the thousands of banks scattered throughout the country has never
been really based upon the actual possession of specie to the extent of more than one fifth
of the amount in circulation. It may be the doctrine will never come to prevail that a specie
basis in whole or in part is no more indispensable to a sound and safe paper currency than
an exclusive specie currency is possible or desirable in a country like this. It may be that
the people will never come to believe that a legal-tender paper currency, issued exclusively
by the National Government--based upon the credit of the nation, constituting a lien upon all
the property of the country, and proportioned in amount of issue to the needs of the people
for it as an instrument of exchange--would, for all home uses, possess in full perfection the
nature, functions, and powers of money. It is a subject we do not propose to discuss. It is
enough now to say that the notes of the United States, fundable in national six per cent. bonds,
and drawing interest as they do semi-annually in gold, must be admitted by everybody to be
as safe a currency as the banks as a whole have ever supplied, and to possess other advantages
which make them incomparably a better currency than that of local banks.

The high price to which gold has been carried by gambling speculators, is not to be taken as
indicating a proportionate want of confidence in the success of the national cause and in the
intrinsic value of the national securities. It indicates nothing of the sort--at any rate,
whatever it may be taken to indicate, it is none the less true that United States six per cent.
bonds were from the first eagerly sought for and taken as investments at the rate of a million
a day--faster indeed than the Government could at first supply them; with a constantly augmenting
demand, until in the last week of October thirty-six millions were disposed of--leaving only
one hundred and fifty millions unsold, which will doubtless all be taken before this paper
is published. Comment on this is entirely needless.

OUR FOREIGN RELATIONS.

In the conduct of our foreign relations, certain official declarations in the early part of
the war on the policy and purpose of Government in carrying it on, are to be regretted as gratuitous
and unfortunate. It is to be regretted also that the capture of the Trent and the seizure of
Mason and Slidell was not at once disavowed as being contrary to our doctrine on neutral rights,
and the rebel emissaries surrendered without waiting for reclamation on the part of the British
Government; or, if it was thought best to await that reclamation as containing a virtual concession
of our doctrine, it would have been better--more dignified and effective--if the reply had
been limited to a simple statement that the surrender was necessitated by the principles always
maintained by our Government, and not by a reclamation which the British Government, by its
own construction of public law and by its own practice, was not entitled to make, but which
being made, might now, it was to be hoped, be taken as an abandonment in the future of the
ground heretofore maintained by that Government.

CONCESSION OF BELLIGERENT RIGHTS TO THE REBELS.

There has been some dissatisfaction with the conduct of our official communications with Great
Britain and France respecting the question on belligerent rights and neutral obligations which
the rebellion has raised. But there are points of no inconsiderable difficulty and delicacy
involved in these questions, which a great many people, in their natural displeasure against
the English and French, have failed to consider. Our Government deserves the credit of having
consulted the interests without compromising the dignity of the nation. Admitting the conduct
of the British and French Governments in recognizing the rebels as belligerents to be as unfriendly
and as unrequired by the obligations of public law as it is generally held to be among us,
that would not make it right or wise for our Government to depart from the tone of moderation.
We can no more make it a matter for official complaint and demand against these Governments,
than we could the unfriendly tone of many of their newspapers and Parliamentary orators. We
might say to them: We take it as unkindly in you to do as you have done; but if they will continue
to do so, we have nothing for it but to submit. Even if we could have afforded it, we could
not rightly have gone to war with them for doing what we ourselves--through the necessity of
our circumstances--have been compelled in effect to do, and what they, though not forced by
any such necessity, had yet a right--and in their own opinion were obliged--by public law to
do. We could not have made it a cause of war, and therefore it would have been worse than idle
to indulge in a style of official representation which means war if it means anything.

THE REBEL CRUISERS.

The question of the rebel cruisers on the high seas is a question by itself. The anger excited
among us by the injuries we have suffered from these vessels is not strange; nor is it strange
that our anger should beget a disposition to quarrel with Great Britain and France for conceding
the rights of lawful belligerents to the perpetrators of such atrocities. The rebels have no
courts of admiralty, carry their prizes to no ports, submit them to no lawful adjudication--but
capture, plunder, and burn private vessels in mid ocean. Such proceedings by the laws of nations
are undoubtedly piratical in their nature. We have a right so to hold and declare. We may think
that Great Britain and France are bound so to hold and declare. But what then? Should they
have ordered their men of war to cruise against these rebel cruisers or to capture every one
which they might chance to encounter, and to send them home for trial? We may think they were
bound in vindication of public law to do so; but could we make their not doing so a matter
of formal complaint and a cause of war? There are a number of things to be well considered
before any one should permit himself to quarrel with our Government for not quarrelling with
Great Britain and France on this matter.

BRITISH VIOLATION OF NEUTRAL OBLIGATIONS.

But the conduct of the British Government in allowing her ports to be made the basis of these
nefarious operations--in permitting vessels of whose character and purpose there could be no
doubt to be built in her ports--not to be delivered in any Confederate port, but in effect
armed and manned from her ports to go immediately to cruise against our commerce on the high
seas--is an outrageous violation of the obligations of neutrals, for which that Government
may justly be held responsible. It is a responsibility which no technical pleading about the
insufficiency of British laws, either in matter of prohibition or rules of evidence, can avoid.
Great Britain is bound to have laws and rules of evidence which will enable her effectually
to discharge her neutral obligations; whether she has or not, does not alter her responsibility
to us. Her conduct may rightfully be made a matter of official complaint, and of war too--if
satisfaction and reparation be refused. It is a case in which our rights and dignity are concerned;
and it is to be presumed that our Government will not fail to vindicate them.[1]

LEGISLATION--THE CONFISCATION LAW.

The action of Congress has in everything been nobly patriotic in spirit, and in nearly everything
it has wisely and adequately met the exigencies of the crisis.

But we are compelled to hold the Confiscation Act, in the form in which it was passed, as a
mistake.[2] If the clause of the Constitution prohibiting 'attainder of treason to work forfeiture
except during the life of the person attainted,' be necessarily applicable to the Confiscation
Act, it seems to us impossible to avoid the conclusion that the act is unconstitutional. So
far as the language of the prohibition is decisive of anything, it must be taken to include
all sorts of property, real as well as personal--the term forfeiture certainly having that
extent of application in the old English law and practice, from which the framers of our Constitution
took it, and there is nothing elsewhere in the Constitution or in its history to warrant any
other construction. So the Congress of 1790 understood it in the act declaring the punishment
of treason and some other high crimes. As to the perpetuity of forfeiture, it seems equally
necessary to hold that it is prohibited by the clause of the Constitution in question. Such
is undeniably the first and obvious meaning of the terms. It has been argued indeed that it
was not the intention of the framers of the Constitution to prohibit perpetual forfeiture of
property from being 'declared' by Congress, but only to prohibit 'attainder of treason' from
'working' of itself that effect by necessary consequence--as it did under the Common Law of
England. It has also been argued that the constitutional restriction does not relate to perpetuity
of forfeiture, but only requires that the forfeiture or act of alienation take place, have
effect, and be accomplished 'during the life of the person attainted,' and not after his death.

But this reasoning is more subtile than satisfactory. A fair consideration of the subject leaves
little room for doubt that the framers of the Constitution had in view and intended to prohibit
everything which under the old English common law followed upon 'attainder of treason'--to
prohibit forfeiture in perpetuity of property of every sort, no less than 'bills of attainder,'
'corruption of blood,' and barbarities of punishment, such as disembowelling, quartering, etc.

If therefore the constitutional restriction on forfeiture apply to the Confiscation Law, it
makes the law unconstitutional, in so far as it enacts the perpetual forfeiture of the personal
estate of rebels; and the discrimination made in regard to their real estate does not save
the constitutionality of the act.

If, therefore, the Confiscation Law is to be held as constitutional, it can be so, as it seems
to us, only on the ground that it does not fall within the scope of the constitutional prohibition
in question. This ground may be maintained by asserting that the constitutional prohibition
of perpetual forfeiture applies only to cases of 'attainder of treason,' that is, according
to Blackstone, of 'judgment of death for treason,' and that cases under this act are not such;
that the limitations applicable to ordinary judicial proceedings against traitors are not applicable
here; that the Confiscation Act seizes the property of rebels not in their quality of criminals,
but of public enemies; that it is not an act for the punishment of treason, but for weakening
and subduing an armed rebellion, and securing indemnification for the costs and damages it
has entailed--in short, not a penal statute, but a war measure; and that the Constitution which
gives Congress the right to make war for the suppression of the rebellion, and to subject the
lives of rebels to the laws of war, gives it the right to subject their property also to the
same laws--putting both out of the protection of the ordinary laws; and finally that all the
objects aimed at by the measure are legitimated by the principles of public law.

If these views can be sustained, it follows that Congress was justified not only in enacting
the perpetual confiscation of the personal property of rebels, but need not, and should not,
have passed the explanatory clause prohibiting 'forfeiture of real estate beyond the natural
life' of the rebel. So far as weakening the rebellion, indemnifying the nation for costs and
damages, or the rights and interests of the heirs of rebels, are concerned, there is no reason
in justice or in policy for the discrimination made between personal and real estate; if it
is right and wise to take the one in perpetuity, it is equally so to take the other. In our
judgment, it is right and wise to do both.

MILITARY ADMINISTRATION--NO ARMY OF RESERVE.

In looking over the war, we can all now see a very great error in the military administration--the
neglect, namely, to provide and keep up a proper reserved force. It is the grand mistake of
the war. Two years and a half of war, and no army of reserve! Eighteen months ago, a force
of reserve of at least two hundred thousand men should have been formed. It could probably
then have been formed of volunteers. From it, vacancies made in the armies in the field by
battle, disease, or expiration of time of service, could have been filled with drilled and
disciplined soldiers, and reinforcements drawn to meet any special exigency. The victory of
Gettysburgh might have resulted in the total destruction of Lee's army before he could recross
the Potomac; and Rosecrans might have been strengthened without weakening the Army of the Potomac
or any other. Whether the cost of forming and keeping up such a force of reserve would have
greatly exceeded the cost of the recent draft, we do not pretend to know. We are inclined to
think it would not. But that is a question of little moment. Money wisely spent is well spent:
money unwisely saved is ill saved. With such a force, the recent draft might not have been
necessary--at all events there would have been no necessity for suspending active military
operations in Virginia, and awaiting the slow completion of the draft, at a moment when, large
additions to the forces in the field were precisely the one thing needful. The army of reserve
would at once have supplied disciplined soldiers, and their places in the camps of instruction
and reserve could have been filled with the new conscripts as fast as they were collected.

CONSOLATION--ENFORCEMENT OF THE DRAFT IN NEW YORK.

But grave as the error is which we have signalized, there is something that might well console
us for greater misfortunes than it has entailed, and which gives us another illustration of
the truth that God and Time often work for us better than we for ourselves, and out of our
errors bring good that we could not forecast.

It would not be wise to assert that the not having such a reserved force necessitated the recent
draft, and thereby occasioned the horrible outbreak in New York. But if it may even be safely
suggested as possibly true, the successful enforcement of the draft becomes all the more a
matter for boundless joy and congratulation. Important as its enforcement throughout the country
was as a means of filling up the ranks of our armies, the outbreak in New York made it a thousand
times more important as the only adequate assertion of the supremacy of national law.

There can be no doubt as to the nature, origin, and purpose of that outbreak. It was the result
of a long-prepared traitorous conspiracy in the interest of the rebels. The enforcement of
the draft against mob violence instigated by treason, was indispensable not only to the successful
prosecution of the war against the rebels of the South, but to the maintenance of the supreme
authority and power of the National Government, and of the foundations of social order at the
North. Not to have enforced it might have insured the triumph of the rebellion and the independence
of the South; it certainly would have rendered the North no longer a country fit for any decent
man to live in. Such and so great was the significance of the crisis. The responsibility of
the Administration was immense. The President met it nobly. He took care that a sufficient
military force--not under the control of Governor Seymour, but of a well-tried patriot--was
present in New York. He carried out the draft there and everywhere else. He crushed the schemes
and hopes of the traitorous conspirators--more guilty than the rebels in arms-and gave a demonstration
of the strength of the National Government, as grand in its majesty as it was indispensable
to the national salvation in this crisis and to its security in all future time. The Government
has triumphed in the quiet majesty of its irresistible force over factious and traitorous opposition
at the North, springing from treasonable sympathy with the rebels, or, from what, in a crisis
like this, is equally wicked, the selfishness of party spirit, preferring party to country.
More than this, it has triumphed over the dangerous and destructive notions on State sovereignty,
which traitors and partisans have dared invoke. It is impossible to overestimate the importance
for the present and for the future of this victorious assertion of the supremacy of the National
Government.

SUMMARY REVIEW.

