This, put simply, is how it has come to pass.

Men lived in families, tribes, and races, at feud with one another, plundering, outraging,
and killing one another.  These violent hostilities were carried on on a large and on a small
scale: man against man, family against family, tribe against tribe, race against race, and
people against people.  The larger and stronger groups conquered and absorbed the weaker, and
the larger and stronger they became, the more internal feuds disappeared and the more the continuity
of the group seemed assured.

The members of a family or tribe, united into one community, are less hostile among themselves,
and families and tribes do not die like one man, but have a continuity of existence.  Between
the members of one state, subject to a single authority, the strife between individuals seems
still less and the life of the state seems even more secure.

Their association into larger and larger groups was not the result of the conscious recognition
of the benefits of such associations, as it is said to be in the story of the Varyagi.  It
was produced, on one hand, by the natural growth of population, and, on the other, by struggle
and conquest.

After conquest the power of the emperor puts an end to internal dissensions, and so the state
conception of life justifies itself. But this justification is never more than temporary. 
Internal dissensions disappear only in proportion to the degree of oppression exerted by the
authority over the dissentient individuals.  The violence of internal feud crushed by authority
reappears in authority itself, which falls into the hands of men who, like the rest, are frequently
or always ready to sacrifice the public welfare to their personal interest, with the difference
that their subjects cannot resist them, and thus they are exposed to all the demoralizing influence
of authority.  And thus the evil of violence, when it passes into the hands of authority, is
always growing and growing, and in time becomes greater than the evil it is supposed to suppress,
while, at the same time, the tendency to violence in the members of the society becomes weaker
and weaker, so that the violence of authority is less and less needed.

Government authority, even if it does suppress private violence, always introduces into the
life of men fresh forms of violence, which tend to become greater and greater in proportion
to the duration and strength of the government.

So that though the violence of power is less noticeable in government than when it is employed
by members of society against one another, because it finds expression in submission, and not
in strife, it nevertheless exists, and often to a greater degree than in former days.

And it could not, be otherwise, since, apart from the demoralizing influence of power, the
policy or even the unconscious tendency of those in power will always be to reduce their subjects
to the extreme of weakness, for the weaker the oppressed, the less effort need be made to keep
him in subjection.

And therefore the oppression of the oppressed always goes on growing up to the furthest limit,
beyond which it cannot go without killing the goose with the golden eggs.  And if the goose
lays no more eggs, like the American Indians, negroes, and Fijians, then it is killed in spite
of the sincere protests of philanthropists.

The most convincing example of this is to be found in the condition of the working classes
of our epoch, who are in reality no better than the slaves of ancient times subdued by conquest.

In spite of the pretended efforts of the higher classes to ameliorate the position of the workers,
all the working classes of the present day are kept down by the inflexible iron law by which
they only get just what is barely necessary, so that they are forced to work without ceasing
while still retaining strength enough to labor for their employers, who are really those who
have conquered and enslaved them.

So it has always been.  In ratio to the duration and increasing strength of authority its advantages
for its subjects disappear and its disadvantages increase.

And this has been so, independently of the forms of government under which nations have lived.
The only difference is that under a despotic form of government the authority is concentrated
in a small number of oppressors and violence takes a cruder form; under constitutional monarchies
and republics as in France and America authority is divided among a great number of oppressors
and the forms assumed by violence is less crude, but its effect of making the disadvantages
of authority greater than its advantages, and of enfeebling the oppressed to the furthest extreme
to which they can be reduced with advantage to the oppressors, remains always the same.

Such has been and still is the condition of all the oppressed, but hitherto they have not recognized
the fact.  In the majority of instances they have believed in all simplicity that governments
exist for their benefit; that they would be lost without a government; that the very idea of
living without a government is a blasphemy which one hardly dare put into words; that this
is the-- for some reason terrible--doctrine of anarchism, with which a mental picture of all
kinds of horrors is associated.

People have believed, as though it were something fully proved, and so needing no proof, that
since all nations have hitherto developed in the form of states, that form of organization
is an indispensable condition of the development of humanity.

And in that way it has lasted for hundreds and thousands of years, and governments--those who
happened to be in power--have tried it, and are now trying more zealously than ever to keep
their subjects in this error.

So it was under the Roman emperors and so it is now.  In spite of the fact that the sense of
the uselessness and even injurious effects of state violence is more and more penetrating into
men's consciousness, things might have gone on in the same way forever if governments were
not under the necessity of constantly increasing their armies in order to maintain their power.

It is generally supposed that governments strengthen their forces only to defend the state
from other states, in oblivion of the fact that armies are necessary, before all things, for
the defense of governments from their own oppressed and enslaved subjects.

That has always been necessary, and has become more and more necessary with the increased diffusion
of education among the masses, with the improved communication between people of the same and
of different nationalities.  It has become particularly indispensable now in the face of communism,
socialism, anarchism, and the labor movement generally.  Governments feel that it is so, and
strengthen the force of their disciplined armies. [See Footnote]

    [Footnote: The fact that in America the abuses of
    authority exist in spite of the small number of their
    troops not only fails to disprove this position,
    but positively confirms it.  In America there are
    fewer soldiers than in other states.  That is why
    there is nowhere else so little oppression of the
    working classes, and no country where the end of the
    abuses of government and of government itself seems
    so near.  Of late as the combinations of laborers
    gain in strength, one hears more and more frequently
    the cry raised for the increase of the army, though
    the United States are not threatened with any attack
    from without.  The upper classes know that an army of
    fifty thousand will soon be insufficient, and no longer
    relying on Pinkerton's men, they feel that the security
    of their position depends on the increased strength of
    the army.

In the German Reichstag not long ago, in reply to a question why funds were needed for raising
the salaries of the under-officers, the German Chancellor openly declared that trustworthy
under- officers were necessary to contend against socialism.  Caprivi only said aloud what
every statesman knows and assiduously conceals from the people.  The reason to which he gave
expression is essentially the same as that which made the French kings and the popes engage
Swiss and Scotch guards, and makes the Russian authorities of to-day so carefully distribute
the recruits, so that the regiments from the frontiers are stationed in central districts,
and the regiments from the center are stationed on the frontiers.  The meaning of Caprivi's
speech, put into plain language, is that funds are needed, not to resist foreign foes, but
to BUY UNDER-OFFICERS to be ready to act against the enslaved toiling masses.

Caprivi incautiously gave utterance to what everyone knows perfectly well, or at least feels
vaguely if he does not recognize it, that is, that the existing order of life is as it is,
not, as would be natural and right, because the people wish it to be so, but because it is
so maintained by state violence, by the army with its BOUGHT UNDER-OFFICERS and generals.

If the laborer has no land, if he cannot use the natural right of every man to derive subsistence
for himself and his family out of the land, that is not because the people wish it to be so,
but because a certain set of men, the land-owners, have appropriated the right of giving or
refusing admittance to the land to the laborers.  And this abnormal order of things is maintained
by the army.  If the immense wealth produced by the labor of the working classes is not regarded
as the property of all, but as the property of a few exceptional persons; if labor is taxed
by authority and the taxes spent by a few on what they think fit; if strikes on the part of
laborers are repressesd, while on the part of capitalists they are encouraged; if certain persons
appropriate the right of choosing the form of the education, religious and secular, of children,
and certain persons monopolize the right of making the laws all must obey, and so dispose of
the lives and properties of other people--all this is not done because the people wish it and
because it is what is natural and right, but because the government and ruling classes wish
this to be so for their own benefit, and insist on its being so even by physical violence.

Everyone, if he does not recognize this now, will know that it is so at the first attempt at
insubordination or at a revolution of the existing order.

Armies, then, are needed by governments and by the ruling classes above all to support the
present order, which, far from being the result of the people's needs, is often in direct antagonism
to them, and is only beneficial to the government and ruling classes.

To keep their subjects in oppression and to be able to enjoy the fruits of their labor the
government must have armed forces.

But there is not only one government.  There are other governments, exploiting their subjects
by violence in the same way, and always ready to pounce down on any other government and carry
off the fruits of the toil of its enslaved subjects.  And so every government needs an army
also to protect its booty from its neighbor brigands.  Every government is thus involuntarily
reduced to the necessity of emulating one another in the increase of their armies.  This increase
is contagious, as Montesquieu pointed out 150 years ago.

Every increase in the army of one state, with the aim of self-defense against its subjects,
becomes a source of danger for neighboring states and calls for a similar increase in their armies.

