He was so full of his project, so much in haste to arrive at the end of his journey, that very
often he would forget his companion, and hastening forward would leave him far behind. The
biographers are unfortunately most laconic with regard to this expedition; they merely say
that on arriving in Spain he was so seriously ill that a return home was imperative. Beyond
a few local legends, not very well attested, we possess no other information upon the labors
of the Saint in this country, nor upon the route which he followed either in going or returning.[10]

This silence is not at all surprising, and ought not to make us undervalue the importance of
this mission. The one to Egypt, which took place six years later, with a whole train of friars,
and at a time when the Order was much more developed, is mentioned only in a few lines by Thomas
of Celano; but for the recent discovery of the Chronicle of Brother Giordano di Giano and the
copious details given by Jacques de Vitry, we should be reduced to conjectures upon that journey
also. The Spanish legends, to which allusion has just been made, cannot be altogether without
foundation, any more than those which concern the journey of St. Francis through Languedoc
and Piedmont; but in the actual condition of the sources it is impossible to make a choice,
with any sort of authority, between the historic basis and additions to it wholly without value.

The mission in Spain doubtless took place between the Whitsunday of 1214 and that of 1215.[11]
Francis, I think, had passed the previous year[12] in Italy. Perhaps he was then going to see
the Verna. The March of Ancona and the Valley of Rieti would naturally have attracted him equally
about this epoch, and finally the growth of the two branches of the Order must have made necessary
his presence at Portiuncula and St. Damian. The rapidity and importance of these missions ought
in no sense to give surprise, nor awaken exaggerated critical doubts. It took only a few hours
to become a member of the fraternity, and we may not doubt the sincerity of these vocations,
since their condition was the immediate giving up of all property of whatever kind, for the
benefit of the poor. The new friars were barely received when they in their turn began to receive
others, often becoming the heads of the movement in whatever place they happened to be. The
way in which we see things going on in Germany in 1221, and in England in 1224, gives a very
living picture of this spiritual germination.

To found a monastery it was enough that two or three Brothers should have at their disposition
some sort of a shelter, whence they radiated out into the city and the neighboring country.
It would, therefore, be as much an exaggeration to describe St. Francis as a man who passed
his life in founding convents, as to deny altogether the local traditions which attribute to
him the erection of a hundred monasteries. In many cases a glance is enough to show whether
these claims of antiquity are justified; before 1220 the Order had only hermitages after the
pattern of the Verna or the Carceri, solely intended for the Brothers who desired to pass some
time in retreat.

Returned to Assisi, Francis admitted to the Order a certain number of learned men, among whom
was perhaps Thomas of Celano. The latter, in fact, says that God at that time mercifully remembered
him, and he adds further on: "The blessed Francis was of an exquisite nobility of heart and
full of discernment; with the greatest care he rendered to each one what was due him, with
wisdom considering in each case the degree of their dignities."

This does not harmonize very well with the character of Francis as we have sketched it; one
can hardly imagine him preserving in his Order such profound distinctions as were at that time
made between the different social ranks, but he had that true and eternal politeness which
has its roots in the heart, and which is only an expression of tact and love. It could not
be otherwise with a man who saw in courtesy one of the qualities of God.

We are approaching one of the most obscure periods of his life. After the chapter of 1215 he
seems to have passed through one of those crises of discouragement so frequent with those who
long to realize the ideal in this world. Had he discovered the warning signs of the misfortunes
which were to come upon his family? Had he come to see that the necessities of life were to
sully and blight his dream? Had he seen in the check of his missions in Syria and Morocco a
providential indication that he had to change his method? We do not know. But about this time
he felt the need of turning to St. Clara and Brother Silvestro for counsel on the subject of
the doubts and hesitations which assailed him; their reply restored to him peace and joy. God
by their mouth commanded him to continue his apostolate.[13]

Immediately he rose and set forth in the direction of Bevagna,[14] with an ardor which he had
never yet shown. In encouraging him to persevere Clara had in some sort inoculated him with
a new enthusiasm. One word from her had sufficed to give him back all his courage, and from
this point in his life we find in him more poetry, more love, than ever before.

Full of joy, he was going on his way when, perceiving some flocks of birds, he turned aside
a little from the road to go to them. Far from taking flight, they flocked around him as if
to bid him welcome. "Brother birds," he said to them then, "you ought to praise and love your
Creator very much. He has given you feathers for clothing, wings for flying, and all that is
needful for you. He has made you the noblest of his creatures; he permits you to live in the
pure air; you have neither to sow nor to reap, and yet he takes care of you, watches over you
and guides you." Then the birds began to arch their necks, to spread out their wings, to open
their beaks, to look at him, as if to thank him, while he went up and down in their midst stroking
them with the border of his tunic, sending them away at last with his blessing.[15]

In this same evangelizing tour, passing through Alviano,[16] he spoke a few exhortations to
the people, but the swallows so filled the air with their chirping that he could not make himself
heard. "It is my turn to speak," he said to them; "little sister swallows, hearken to the word
of God; keep silent and be very quiet until I have finished."[17]

We see how Francis's love extended to all creation, how the diffused life shed abroad upon
all things inspired and moved him. From the sun to the earthworm which we trample under foot,
everything breathed in his ear the ineffable sigh of beings that live and suffer and die, and
in their life as in their death have a part in the divine work.

"Praised be thou, Lord, with all thy creatures, especially for my brother Sun which gives us
the day and by him thou showest thy light. He is beautiful and radiant with great splendor;
of thee, Most High, he is the symbol."

Here again, Francis revives the Hebrew inspiration, the simple and grandiose view of the prophets
of Israel.

The day of the birds of Bevagna remained in his memory as one of the most beautiful of his
whole life, and though usually so reserved he always loved to tell of it;[18] it was because
he owed to Clara these pure ardors which brought him into a secret and delicious communion
with all beings; it was she who had revived him from sadness and hesitation; in his heart he
bore an immense gratitude to her who, just when he needed it, had known how to return to him
love for love, inspiration for inspiration.

Francis's sympathy for animals, as we see it shining forth here, has none of that sentimentalism,
so often artificial and exclusive of all other love, which certain associations of his time
noisily displayed; in him it is only a manifestation of his feeling for nature, a deeply mystical,
one might say pantheistic, sentiment, if the word had not a too definitely philosophical sense,
quite opposite to the Franciscan thought.

This sentiment, which in the poets of the thirteenth century is so often false and affected,
was in him not only true, but had in it something alive, healthy, robust.[19] It is this vein
of poetry which awoke Italy to self-consciousness, made her in a few years forget the nightmare
of Catharist ideas, and rescued her from pessimism. By it Francis became the forerunner of
the artistic movement which preceded the Renaissance, the inspirer of that group of Pre-Raphaelites,
awkward, grotesque in drawing though at times they were, to whom we turn to-day with a sort
of piety, finding in their ungraceful saints an inner life, a moral feeling which we seek for
elsewhere in vain.

If the voice of the Poverello of Assisi was so well understood it was because in this matter,
as in all others, it was entirely unconventional. How far we are, with him, from the fierce
or Pharisaic piety of those monks which forbids even the females of animals to enter their
convent! His notion of chastity in no sense resembles this excessive prudery. One day at Sienna
he asked for some turtle-doves, and holding them in the skirt of his tunic, he said: "Little
sisters turtle-doves, you are simple, innocent, and chaste; why did you let yourselves be caught?
I shall save you from death, and have nests made for you, so that you may bring forth young
and multiply according to the commandment of our Creator."

And he went and made nests for them all, and the turtle-doves began to lay eggs and bring up
their broods under the eyes of the Brothers.[20]

At Rieti a family of red-breasts were the guests of the monastery, and the young birds made
marauding expeditions on the very table where the Brothers were eating.[21] Not far from there,
at Greccio,[22] they brought to Francis a leveret that had been taken alive in a trap. "Come
to me, brother leveret," he said to it. And as the poor creature, being set free, ran to him
for refuge, he took it up, caressed it, and finally put it on the ground that it might run
away; but it returned to him again and again, so that he was obliged to send it to the neighboring
forest before it would consent to return to freedom.[23]

One day he was crossing the Lake of Rieti. The boatman in whose bark he was making the passage
offered him a tench of uncommon size. Francis accepted it with joy, but to the great amazement
of the fisherman put it back into the water, bidding it bless God.[24]

We should never have done if we were to relate all the incidents of this kind,[25] for the
sentiment of nature was innate with him; it was a perpetual communion which made him love the
whole creation.[26] He is ravished with the witchery of great forests; he has the terrors of
a child when he is alone at prayer in a deserted chapel, but he tastes ineffable joy merely
in inhaling the perfume of a flower, or gazing into the limpid water of a brook.[27]

This perfect lover of poverty permitted one luxury--he even commanded it at Portiuncula--that
of flowers; the Brother was bidden not to sow vegetables and useful plants only; he must reserve
one corner of good ground for our sisters, the flowers of the fields. Francis talked with them
also, or rather he replied to them, for their mysterious and gentle language crept into the
very depth of his heart.[28]

The thirteenth century was prepared to understand the voice of the Umbrian poet; the sermon
to the birds[29] closed the reign of Byzantine art and of the thought of which it was the image.
It is the end of dogmatism and authority; it is the coming in of individualism and inspiration;
very uncertain, no doubt, and to be followed by obstinate reactions, but none the less marking
a date in the history of the human conscience.[30] Many among the companions of Francis were
too much the children of their century, too thoroughly imbued with its theological and metaphysical
methods, to quite understand a sentiment so simple and profound.[31] But each in his degree
felt its charm. Here Thomas of Celano's language rises to an elevation which we find in no
other part of his works, closing with a picture of Francis which makes one think of the Song
of Songs.[32]

Of more than middle height, Francis had a delicate and kindly face, black eyes, a soft and
sonorous voice. There was in his whole person a delicacy and grace which made him infinitely
lovely. All these characteristics are found in the most ancient portraits.[33]

FOOTNOTES:

   [1] 3 Soc., 57; cf. An. Perus., A. SS., p. 599.

   [2] Rev. xxi.; 1 Cel., 46; 3 Soc., 57-59; An. Perus., A. SS.,
       p. 600.

   [3] 1 Cel., 55 and 56; Bon., 129-132.

   [4] Fior., 7; Spec., 96; Conform., 223a, 2. The fact of
       Francis's sojourn on an island in this lake is made certain by 1
       Cel., 60.

   [5] Vide below, p. 400. Cf. A. SS., pp. 823 f.

   [6] At present Sasso-Feltrio, between Conca and Marecchio, south
       of and about two hours' walk from San Marino.

   [7] The happiness that I expect is so great that all pain is
       joyful to me. All the documents give Francis's text in Italian,
       which is enough to prove that it was the language not only of
       his poems but also of his sermons. Spec. 92a ff. Conform.
       113a, 2; 231a, 1; Fior., Prima consid.

   [8] See p. 400.

   [9] 2 Cel., 3, 85; Bon., 82.

  [10] 1 Cel., 56; Bon., 132.

  [11] Vide Wadding, ann. 1213-1215. Cf. A. SS., pp. 602, 603,
       825-831. Mark of Lisbon, lib. i., cap. 45, pp. 78-80;
       Papini, Storia di S. Francesco, i., p. 79 ff. (Foligno, 1825,
       2 vols., 4to). It is surprising to see Father Suysken giving so
       much weight to the argumentum a silentio.

  [12] From Pentecost, 1213, to that of 1214.--Post non multum
       vero temporis versus Marochium iter arripuit, says Thomas of
       Celano (1 Cel., 56), after having mentioned the return from
       Slavonia. Taking into account the author's usus loquendi the
       phrase appears to establish a certain interval between the two
       missions.

  [13] Conform., 110b, 1; Spec., 62b; Fior., 16; Bon.,
       170-174.

  [14] Village about two leagues S. W. from Assisi. The time is
       indirectly fixed by Bon., 173, and 1 Cel., 58.

  [15] 1 Cel. 58; Bon., 109 and 174; Fior., 16; Spec., 62b;
       Conform., 114b, 2.

  [16] About halfway between Orvieto and Narni.

  [17] 1 Cel., 59; Bon., 175.

  [18] Ad hæc, ut ipse dicebat ... 1 Cel., 58.

  [19] Francis has been compared in this regard to certain of his
       contemporaries, but the similarity of the words only makes more
       evident the diversity of inspiration. Honorius III. may say:
       Forma rosæ est inferius angusta, superius ampla et significat
       quod Christus pauper fuit in mundo, sed est Dominus super omnia
       et implet universa. Nam sicut forma rosæ, etc. (Horoy, t. i.,
       col. xxiv. and 804), and make a whole sermon on the symbolism of
       the rose; these overstrained dissertations have nothing to do
       with the feeling for nature. It is the arsenal of mediæval
       rhetoric used to dissect a word. It is an intellectual effort,
       not a song of love. The Imitation would say: If thy heart were
       right all creatures would be for thee a mirror of life and a
       volume of holy doctrine, lib. ii., cap. 2. The simple sentiment
       of the beauty of creation is absent here also; the passage is a
       pedagogue in disguise.

  [20] Spec., 157. Fior.; 22.

  [21] 2 Cel., 2, 16; Conform., 148a, 1, 183b, 2. Cf. the story
       of the sheep of Portiuncula: Bon., 111.

  [22] Village in the valley of Rieti, two hours' walk from that
       town, on the road to Terni.

  [23] 1 Cel., 60; Bon., 113.

  [24] 1 Cel., 61; Bon., 114.

  [25] 2 Cel., 3, 54; Bon., 109; 2 Cel., 3; 103 ff.; Bon., 116
       ff.; Bon., 110; 1 Cel., 61; Bon., 114, 113, 115; 1 Cel., 79;
       Fior., 13, etc.

  [26] 2 Cel., 3, 101 ff.; Bon., 123.

  [27] 2 Cel., 3, 59; 1 Cel., 80 and 81.

  [28] 2 Cel., 3, 101; Spec., 136a; 1 Cel., 81.

  [29] This is the scene in his life most often reproduced by the
       predecessors of Giotto. The unknown artist who (before 1236)
       decorated the nave of the Lower Church of Assisi gives five
       frescos to the history of Jesus and five to the life of St.
       Francis. Upon the latter he represents: 1, the renunciation of
       the paternal inheritance; 2, Francis upholding the Lateran
       church; 3, the sermon to the birds; 4, the stigmata; 5, the
       funeral. This work, unhappily very badly lighted, and about half
       of it destroyed at the time of the construction of the chapels
       of the nave, ought to be engraved before it completely
       disappears. The history of art in the time of Giunta Pisano is
       still too much enveloped in obscurity for us to neglect such a
       source of information. M. Thode (Franz von Assisi und die
       Anfänge der Kunst, Berlin, 1885, 8vo. illust.) and the Rev.
       Father Fratini (Storia della Basilica d'Assisi, Prato, 1882,
       8vo) are much too brief so far as these frescos are concerned.

  [30] It is needless to say that I do not claim that Francis was
       the only initiator of this movement, still less that he was its
       creator; he was its most inspired singer, and that may suffice
       for his glory. If Italy was awakened it was because her sleep
       was not so sound as in the tenth century; the mosaics of the
       façade of the Cathedral of Spoleto (the Christ between the
       Virgin and St. John) already belong to the new art. Still, the
       victory was so little final that the mural paintings of St.
       Lawrence without the walls and of the Quattro Coronate, which
       are subsequent to it by half a score of years, relapse into a
       coarse Byzantinism. See also those of the Baptistery of
       Florence.

  [31] Hence the more or less subtile explanations with which they
       adorn these incidents.--As to the part of animals in thirteenth
       century legends consult Cæsar von Heisterbach, Strange's
       edition, t. ii., pp. 257 ff.

  [32] 1 Cel., 80-83.

  [33] 1 Cel., 83; Conform., 111a. M. Thode (Anfänge, pp.
       76-94) makes a study of some thirty portraits. The most
       important are reproduced in Saint François (1 vol., 4to,
       Paris, 1885); 1, contemporary portrait, by Brother Eudes, now at
       Subiaco (loc. cit., p. 30); 2, portrait dating about 1230, by
       Giunta Pisano (?); preserved at Portiuncula (loc. cit., p.
       384); 3, finally, portrait dated 1235, by Bon. Berlinghieri, and
       preserved at Pescia, in Tuscany (loc. cit., p. 277). In 1886
       Prof. Carattoli studied with great care a portrait which dates
       from about those years and of which he gives a picture (also
       preserved of late years at Portiuncula). Miscellanea
       francescana t. i., pp. 44-48; cf. pp. 160, 190, and 1887, p.
       32. M. Bonghi has written some interesting papers on the
       iconography of St. Francis (Francesco di Assisi, 1 vol., 12mo,
       Citta di Castello, Lapi, 1884. Vide pp. 103-113).

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XI

THE INNER MAN AND WONDER-WORKING

The missionary journey, undertaken under the encouragement of St. Clara and so poetically inaugurated
by the sermon to the birds of Bevagna, appears to have been a continual triumph for Francis.[1]
Legend definitively takes possession of him; whether he will or no, miracles burst forth under
his footsteps; quite unawares to himself the objects of which he has made use produce marvellous
effects; folk come out from the villages in procession to meet him, and the biographer gives
us to hear the echo of those religious festivals of Italy--merry, popular, noisy, bathed in
sunshine--which so little resemble the fastidiously arranged festivals of northern peoples.

From Alviano Francis doubtless went to Narni, one of the most charming little towns in Umbria,
busy with building a cathedral after the conquest of their communal liberties. He seems to
have had a sort of predilection for this city as well as for its surrounding villages.[2] From
thence he seems to have plunged into the valley of Rieti, where Greccio, Fonte-Colombo, San
Fabiano, Sant-Eleuthero, Poggio-Buscone retain even stronger traces of him than the environs
of Assisi.

Thomas of Celano gives us no particulars of the route followed, but, on the other hand, he
goes at length into the success of the apostle in the March of Ancona, and especially at Ascoli.
Did the people of these districts still remember the appeals which Francis and Egidio had made
to them six years before (1209), or must we believe that they were peculiarly prepared to understand
the new gospel? However this may be, nowhere else was a like enthusiasm shown; the effect of
the sermons was so great that some thirty neophytes at once received the habit of the Order.

The March of Ancona ought to be held to be the Franciscan province par excellence. There are
Offida, San-Severino, Macerata, Fornaro, Cingoli, Fermo, Massa, and twenty other hermitages
where, during more than a century, poverty was to find its heralds and its martyrs; from thence
came Giovanni della Verna, Jacopo di Massa, Conrad di Offida, Angelo Clareno, and those legions
of nameless revolutionists, dreamers, and prophets, who since the extirpés in 1244 by the general
of the Order, Crescentius of Jesi, never ceased to make new recruits, and by their proud resistance
to all powers filled one of the finest pages of religious history in the Middle Ages.

This success, which bathed the soul of Francis with joy, did not arouse in him the smallest
movement of pride. Never has man had a greater power over hearts, because never preacher preached
himself less. One day Brother Masseo desired to put his modesty to the test.

    "Why thee? Why thee? Why thee?" he repeated again and again, as
    if to make a mock of Francis. "What are you saying?" cried
    Francis at last. "I am saying that everybody follows thee,
    everyone desires to see thee, hear thee, and obey thee, and yet
    for all that thou art neither beautiful, nor learned, nor of
    noble family. Whence comes it, then, that it should be thee whom
    the world desires to follow?"

    On hearing these words the blessed Francis, full of joy, raised
    his eyes to heaven, and after remaining a long time absorbed in
    contemplation he knelt, praising and blessing God with
    extraordinary fervor. Then turning toward Masseo, "Thou wishest
    to know why it is I whom men follow? Thou wishest to know? It is
    because the eyes of the Most High have willed it thus; he
    continually watches the good and the wicked, and as his most
    holy eyes have not found among sinners any smaller man, nor any
    more insufficient and more sinful, therefore he has chosen me to
    accomplish the marvellous work which God has undertaken; he
    chose me because he could find no one more worthless, and he
    wished here to confound the nobility and grandeur, the strength,
    the beauty, and the learning of this world."

This reply throws a ray of light upon St. Francis's heart; the message which he brought to
the world is once again the glad tidings announced to the poor; its purpose is the taking up
again of that Messianic work which the Virgin of Nazareth caught a glimpse of in her Magnificat,
that song of love and liberty, the sighs of which breathe the vision of a new social state.
He comes to remind the world that the welfare of man, the peace of his heart, the joy of his
life, are neither in money, nor in learning, nor in strength, but in an upright and sincere
will. Peace to men of good will.

The part which he had taken at Assisi in the controversies of his fellow-citizens he would
willingly have taken in all the rest of Italy, for no man has ever dreamed of a more complete
renovation; but if the end he sought was the same as that of many revolutionaries who came
after him, their methods were completely different; his only weapon was love.

The event has decided against him. Apart from the illuminati of the March of Ancona and the
Fraticelli of our own Provence his disciples have vied with one another to misunderstand his
thought.[3]

Who knows if some one will not arise to take up his work? Has not the passion for worm-eaten
speculations yet made victims enough? Are there not many among us who perceive that luxury
is a delusion, that if life is a battle, it is not a slaughter-house where ferocious beasts
wrangle over their prey, but a wrestling with the divine, under whatever form it may present
itself--truth, beauty, or love? Who knows whether this expiring nineteenth century will not
arise from its winding-sheet to make amende honorable and bequeath to its successor one manly
word of faith?

Yes, the Messiah will come. He who was announced by Gioacchino di Fiore and who is to inaugurate
a new epoch in the history of humanity will appear. Hope maketh not ashamed. In our modern
Babylons and in the huts on our mountains are too many souls who mysteriously sigh the hymn
of the great vigil, Rorate coeli desuper et nubes pluant Justum,[4] for us not to be on the
eve of a divine birth.

All origins are mysterious. This is true of matter, but yet more true of that life, superior
to all others, which we call holiness; it was in prayer that Francis found the spiritual strength
which he needed; he therefore sought for silence and solitude. If he knew how to do battle
in the midst of men in order to win them to the faith, he loved, as Celano says, to fly away
like a bird going to make its nest upon the mountain.[5]

With men truly pious the prayer of the lips, the formulated prayer, is hardly other than an
inferior form of true prayer. Even when it is sincere and attentive, and not a mechanical repetition,
it is only a prelude for souls not dead of religious materialism.

Nothing resembles piety so much as love. Formularies of prayer are as incapable of speaking
the emotions of the soul as model love-letters of speaking the transports of an impassioned
heart. To true piety as well as to profound love, the formula is a sort of profanation.

To pray is to talk with God, to lift ourselves up to him, to converse with him that he may
come down to us. It is an act of meditation, of reflection, which presupposes the effort of
all that is most personal in us.

Looked at in this sense, prayer is the mother of all liberty and all freedom.

Whether or no it be a soliloquy of the soul with itself, the soliloquy would be none the less
the very foundation of a strong individuality.

With St. Francis as with Jesus, prayer has this character of effort which makes of it the greatest
moral act. In order to truly know such men one must have been able to go with them, to follow
Jesus up to the mountain where he passed his nights. Three favored ones, Peter, James, John,
followed him thither one day; but to describe what they saw, all that a manly sursum corda
added to the radiance and the mysterious grandeur of him whom they adored, they were obliged
to resort to the language of symbols.

It was so with St. Francis. For him as for his Master the end of prayer is communion with the
heavenly Father, the accord of the divine with the human; or rather it is man who puts forth
his strength to do the work of God, not saying to him a mere passive, resigned, powerless Fiat,
but courageously raising his head: "Behold me, Lord, I delight to do thy will."

"There are unfathomable depths in the human soul, because at the bottom is God himself." Whether
this God be transcendent or immanent, whether he be One, the Creator, the eternal and immutable
Principle, or whether he be, as say the doctors beyond the Rhine, the ideal objectivation of
our Me, is not the question for the heroes of humanity. The soldier in the thick of battle
does not philosophize as to how much truth or falsehood there is in the patriotic sentiment;
he takes his arms and fights at the peril of his life. So the soldiers of spiritual conflicts
seek for strength in prayer, in reflection, contemplation, inspiration; all, poets, artists,
teachers, saints, legislators, prophets, leaders of the people, learned men, philosophers,
all draw from this same source.

But it is not without difficulty that the soul unites itself to God, or if one prefers, that
it finds itself. A prayer ends at last in divine communion only when it began by a struggle.
The patriarch of Israel, asleep near Bethel, had already divined this: the God who passes by
tells his name only to those who stop him and do him violence to learn it. He blesses only
after long hours of conflict.

The gospel has found an untranslatable word to characterize the prayers of Jesus, it compares
the conflict which preceded the voluntary immolation of Christ to the death-struggle: Factus
in agonia.[6] We might say of his life that it had been a long temptation, a struggle, a prayer,
since these words only express different moments of spiritual activity.

Like their Master, the disciples and successors of Christ can conquer their own souls only
through perseverance. But these words, empty of meaning for devout conventicles, have had a
tragic sense for men of religious genius.

Nothing is more false, historically, than the saints that adorn our churches, with their mincing
attitude, their piteous expression, that indescribably anæmic and emaciated--one may almost
say emasculated--air which shows in their whole nature; they are pious seminarists brought
up under the direction of St. Alphonso di Liguori or of St. Louis di Gonzagua; they are not
saints, not the violent who take the kingdom of heaven by force.

We have come to one of the most delicate features of the life of Francis--his relations with
diabolical powers. Customs and ideas have so profoundly changed in all that concerns the existence
of the devil and his relations with men, that it is almost impossible to picture to oneself
the enormous place which the thought of demons occupied at that time in the minds of men.

The best minds of the Middle Ages believed without a doubt in the existence of the perverse
spirit, in his perpetual transformations in the endeavor to tempt men and cause them to fall
into his snares. Even in the sixteenth century, Luther, who undermined so many beliefs, had
no more doubt of the personal existence of Satan than of sorcery, conjurations, or possessions.[7]

Finding in their souls a wide background of grandeur and wretchedness, whence they sometimes
heard a burst of distant harmonies calling them to a higher life, soon to be overpowered by
the clamors of the brute, our ancestors could not refrain from seeking the explanation of this
duel. They found it in the conflict of the demons with God.

The devil is the prince of the demons, as God is the prince of the angels; capable of all transformations,
they carry on to the end of time terrible battles which will end in the victory of God, but
meantime each man his whole life long is contended for by these two adversaries, and the noblest
souls are naturally the most disputed.

This is how St. Francis, with all men of his time, explained the disquietudes, terrors, anguish,
with which his heart was at times assailed, as well as the hopes, consolations, joys in which
in general his soul was bathed. Wherever we follow his steps local tradition has preserved
the memory of rude assaults of the tempter which he had to undergo.

It is no doubt useless to recall here the elementary fact that if manners change with the times,
man himself is quite as strangely modified. If, according to education, and the manner of life,
such or such a sense may develop an acuteness which confounds common experience--hearing in
the musician, touch with the blind, etc.--we may estimate by this how much sharper certain
senses may have been then than now. Several centuries ago visual delusion was with adults what
it is now with children in remotest country parts. A quivering leaf, a nothing, a breath, an
unexplained sound creates an image which they see and in the reality of which they believe
absolutely. Man is all of a piece; the hyperæsthesia of the will presupposes that of the sensibility,
one is conditioned on the other, and it is this which makes men of revolutionary epochs so
much greater than nature. It would be absurd under pretext of truth to try to bring them back
to the common measures of our contemporary society, for they were veritably demigods for good
as for evil.

Legends are not always absurd. The men of '93 are still near to us, but it is nevertheless
with good right that legend has taken possession of them, and it is pitiable to see these men
who, ten times a day, had to take resolutions where everything was at stake--their destiny,
that of their ideas, and sometimes that of their country--judged as if they had been mere worthy
citizens, with leisure to discuss at length every morning the garments they were to wear or
the menu of a dinner. Most of the time historians have perceived only a part of the truth about
them; for not only were there two men in them, almost all of them are at the same time poets,
demagogues, prophets, heroes, martyrs. To write history, then, is to translate and transpose
almost continually. The men of the thirteenth century could not bring themselves to not refer
to an exterior cause the inner motions of their souls. In what appears to us as the result
of our own reflections they saw inspiration; where we say desires, instincts, passions, they
said temptation, but we must not permit these differences of language to make us overlook or
tax with trickery a part of their spiritual life, bringing us thus to the conclusions of a
narrow and ignorant rationalism.

St. Francis believed himself to have many a time fought with the devil; the horrible demons
of the Etruscan Inferno still haunted the forests of Umbria and Tuscany; but while for his
contemporaries and some of his disciples apparitions, prodigies, possessions, are daily phenomena,
for him they are exceptional, and remain entirely in the background. In the iconography of
St. Benedict, as in that of most of the popular saints, the devil occupies a preponderant place;
in that of St. Francis he disappears so completely that in the long series of Giotto's frescos
at Assisi he is not seen a single time.[8]

In the same way all that is magic and miracle-working occupies in his life an entirely secondary
rank. Jesus in the Gospels gave his apostles power to cast out evil spirits, and to heal all
sickness and all infirmity.[9] Francis surely took literally these words, which made a part
of his Rule. He believed that he could work miracles, and he willed to do so; but his religious
thought was too pure to permit him to consider miracles otherwise than as an entirely exceptional
means of relieving the sufferings of men. Not once do we see him resorting to miracle to prove
his apostolate or to bolster up his ideas. His tact taught him that souls are worthy of being
won by better means. This almost complete absence of the marvellous[10] is by so much the more
remarkable that it is in absolute contradiction with the tendencies of his time.[11]

Open the life of his disciple, St. Anthony of Padua ([Cross] 1231); it is a tiresome catalogue
of prodigies, healings, resurrections. One would say it was rather the prospectus of some druggist
who had invented a new drug than a call to men to conversion and a higher life. It may interest
invalids or devotees, but neither the heart nor the conscience is touched by it. It must be
said in justice to Anthony of Padua that his relations with Francis appear to have been very
slight. Among the earliest disciples who had time to fathom their master's thought to the very
depths we find traces of this noble disdain of the marvellous; they knew too well that the
perfect joy is not to astound the world with prodigies, to give sight to the blind, nor even
to revive those who have been four days dead, but that it lives in the love that goes even
to self-immolation. Mihi absit gloriari nisi in cruce Domini.[12]

Thus Brother Egidio asked of God grace not to perform miracles; he saw in them, as in the passion
for learning, a snare in which the proud would be taken, and which would distract the Order
from its true mission.[13]

St. Francis's miracles are all acts of love; the greater number of them are found in the healing
of nervous maladies, those apparently inexplicable disquietudes which are the cruel afflictions
of critical times. His gentle glance, at once so compassionate and so strong, which seemed
like a messenger from his heart, often sufficed to make those who met it forget all their suffering.

The evil eye is perhaps a less stupid superstition than is generally fancied. Jesus was right
in saying that a look sufficed to make one an adulterer; but there is also a look--that of
the contemplative Mary, for example--which is worth all sacrifices, because it includes them
all, because it gives, consecrates, immolates him who looks.

Civilization dulls this power of the glance. A part of the education the world gives us consists
in teaching our eyes to deceive, in making them expressionless, in extinguishing their flames;
but simple and straightforward natures never give up using this language of the heart, "which
brings life and health in its beams."

"A Brother was suffering unspeakable tortures; sometimes he would roll upon the ground, striking
against whatever lay in his way, frothing at the mouth, horrible to see; at times he would
become rigid, and again, after remaining stark outstretched for a moment, would roll about
in horrible contortions; sometimes lying in a heap on the ground, his feet touching his head,
he would bound upward as high as a man's head." Francis came to see him and healed him.[14]

But these are exceptions, and the greater part of the time the Saint withdrew himself from
the entreaties of his companions when they asked miracles at his hands.

To sum up, if we take a survey of the whole field of Francis's piety, we see that it proceeds
from the secret union of his soul with the divine by prayer; this intuitive power of seeing
the ideal classes him with the mystics. He knew, indeed, both the ecstasy and the liberty of
mysticism, but we must not forget those features of character which separate him from it, particularly
his apostolic fervor. Besides this his piety had certain peculiar qualities which it is necessary
to point out.

