We may remark that other classes of animals exuviate in a similar manner to the crustaceans.
Thus serpents throw off in entire masses their scaly coverings, even a slough from the eyes;
and various insects in their larva state are continually throwing off and renewing their skins.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] Report of British Association, 1851. Pp. 120-122.

THE AYAH.

Owing to our constant intercourse with India, there are few among us who are unacquainted with
the word ayah. Some who live in London or its neighbourhood may perhaps have occasionally met
with one of these sable guardian spirits, conducting one or more pale, precocious-looking little
children to their British friends; or they may even have fallen in with a group of the tribe
in Kensington Gardens, or other public promenades, escorting their little bâbâs, and herding
together, like birds of a feather, attracted by the bonds and recollections of colour, climate,
caste, and language.

Ayah, in the mouth of a lisping baby, is one of the prettiest words of the East, and is learned
as soon as papa and mamma, being equally easy of articulation. The origin of the word is probably
either Portuguese or Spanish (aya), although it has now become common to all classes, Christians,
Mohammedans, and Hindoos alike. The Hindostanee word for nurse is m[=a]m[)a]-jee, or daee;
the Bengalee, doodoo, or dye.

      for a macron and [)a] for
     a breve above the letter "a".]

The ayah is frequently a fixture of long standing in a family, descending from mother to daughter;
and when this is the case, she is no doubt a valuable possession, and is consulted in all the
momentous matters connected with the nursery. However, at the birth of the first baby, she
is of course spick-and-span new; and in comes the dusky stranger, all pride and expectation,
all hope and joy. It is fortunate that there is no difference in young babies--that the one
is as ugly a little thing as the other--and so she is not disappointed: on the contrary, she
sees with one glance of her dark glittering eyes, which have their source of sensation in her
woman's heart, a thousand charms that distinguish her bâbâ from all the other babies in the
universe. With something akin to a mother's feelings, she takes the infant in her arms, which
seems incontinent to become a part of herself, lying all day on her knees, and sleeping all
night in her bosom; and from that moment the nurse, the child, and the paun-box are always
together.

As the ayah is exclusively attached to the nursery, and has nothing to do with household affairs
or the laying out of money, she is generally a favourite with the other servants, who seem
to look upon her as holding an intermediate station between them and the mistress. Should any
of them require leave of absence, for the purpose of attending a funeral or a wedding, he applies
first to the ayah; or if a little tea is wanted for a sick wife or mother, through her also
he obtains the simple, though to him expensive, restorative. If a pedler comes to the door
with his box and bundles, he looks up, and spying the ayah in the veranda or at the window,
he calls out: 'Is anything wanted for Mem-Sahib or the bâbâs? Tell the lady I have beautiful
things to shew.' Away trips the ayah to her mistress, and good-naturedly, or perhaps--no, it
shall be good-naturedly--lays the discovery before her that some trifle is wanted. The man
is called in, and succeeds in disposing of some of his wares, ribbons, laces, or silks; and
the ayah, besides having obliged the lady and the pedler, enjoys a small modicum of satisfaction
herself--who would grudge it?--in pocketing the dustôôree--a discount of two pice, or half
an anna on each rupee.

There are ayahs of various castes. The Portuguese ayahs (Roman Catholic Christians, born in
the country) are no doubt the most intelligent and useful; but they are more expensive than
the Mussulman and Lall Beggies, and are therefore not so frequently employed: indeed, it is
only in the neighbourhood of Calcutta that they are procurable at all. As the Hindostanee women
neither knit nor sew, they seem to devote their energies exclusively to their infant charge.
The bâbâ is their work and their play, the exercise of their thoughts, the substance of their
dreams. He is the only book they read; and the only expansion their minds know is from the
unfolding of the pages of his character. They are proud of that bâbâ, and proud of themselves
for being his. What a sight it is, the ayah coming in at the dessert, in her rustling silks
and transparent muslins--so stately in her humility, so smilingly self-satisfied--surrounded
by the children, and holding in her dark, smooth, jewelled arms the son and heir of the family,
whom she presents to papa to get a bit of cake or sweetmeat!

This is a grand moment for the ayah. Are not the children hers? Have they not lain upon her
bosom all their little lives? And have not the charms which she detected with the first glance
of her glittering eye, been developed under her care into the marvels now before the company?
But the more tranquil and permanent happiness of the ayah is enjoyed while she is watching
alone the opening of her buds of beauty, and steeping their slumbering senses in the sweet
wild music of her country. I still sometimes hear in fancy her cradle-song humming in my own
Old Indian ear as I am falling asleep--although many a long year has passed since I heard it
in reality, and many a long league is now between me and the land of the dear, good, black,
comical, kindly ayah. Let me try whether I cannot render it, even loosely, in our own strong
Anglo-Saxon tongue, from the musical, melting Hindostanee:--

    Sleep on, sleep on, my bâbâ dear!
    Thy faithful slave is watching near.
    The cradle wherein my babe I fondle,
    Is made of the rare and bright-red sandal;[3]
    And the string with which I am rocking my lord,
    Is a gay and glittering silken cord.
    Thy father, my dear, is the jemadar
    Of a province which stretches wide and far;
    And his brother, my child, is a moonsif great,
    Who ruleth o'er many a ryot's fate.

I have said that our ayah sometimes comes home with her charges--comes to our home from her
own. It is a bad exchange. She awakes slowly from her dream, as she sees the rosy cheeks, full
pouting lips, and round wondering eyes, that are turned upon the dark stranger and her pale,
thin, little ones. The comparison is painful; these cherub children have no sympathy with the
lonely Hindoo; and the servants of the house, although awed at first by her foreign aspect,
and calm, stately air, have no permanent respect for one who ranks neither with their superiors
nor with themselves. The climate, too, is as chilling as the manners around her; her heretofore
bâbâs are lords to nobody but herself; and so, with one thing and another, she grows home-sick,
her heart yearns for her own sunny land, and she is glad--sorrowfully glad--when at last the
announcement is made, that an ayah wants to go back to India with a family.

And in India once more, what then? Why then, the great ocean is between her and her fledged
nurslings, and she looks round for some new objects of love and devotion. These she probably
finds in another home, another mistress, another bâbâ; her heart begins its course anew; and
the ayah lives a second life in the young lives of her children. No joyless existence is hers,
no cares without ample compensations; but yet when I see in my own country one of these solitary,
strangely-attired, dark-skinned women, I feel attracted towards her by an almost tearful sympathy,
and have ever a kind look and a warm, gentle word for the poor ayah.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] The red sandal-wood is more rare and valuable than the yellow.

SMALL INVESTMENTS.

The investment of small savings in land with a view to spade-husbandry, was a few years ago
brought prominently before the working-classes. We took occasion, at the time, to warn the
humbler classes generally against projects of this kind, but without any beneficial effect.
Land-schemes, as they were called, were puffed into popularity, and all our advices and remonstrances
on the subject were rejected with disdain. Universal ruin has followed these schemes, and the
unfortunate dupes are left to mourn their loss. Nothing is more specious than a plan of earning
an independent livelihood by cultivating a few acres of land; but, practically, it is open
to some serious drawbacks. First, the cultivator requires to be skilled in husbandry, and of
a bodily frame to endure the fatigue of constant out-door labour. Second, his land must be
tolerably good, and situated under a good climate. Third, the land must be close to a market,
otherwise the produce cannot be disposed of. The cultivation of a small bit of land is in reality
a kind of gardening. No horse-labour can be employed; all is to be done by the spade. It may
be possible, therefore, to make a livelihood near a large town, where anything that is produced--milk
and butter included--will find a ready market at no cost of transport; but in other circumstances
the thing is almost hopeless. It is a notorious fact, that the most wretched of the rural population
of this country are small cultivators, even if the land costs next to nothing. We are aware
that the small-farm system is more successful in Belgium and Lombardy. On the reasons for this,
it is here needless to enter. We take the examples offered in Great Britain, where it has never
come up to the expectations of philanthropists.

The purchase of forty-shilling freeholds has lately been put forward as a method of investing
money by the working-classes. It is beyond our province to speak of the political aims of this
form of investment. We can recognise a certain good in giving to a working-man the feeling,
that he is the proprietor of a house or small portion of land yielding (along with the franchise
in England) a rent of forty shillings per annum; but, at the same time, we recognise a corresponding
evil, and we should be shrinking from our duty if we did not mention it in distinct terms.
In those localities where operatives and others can reckon on constant remunerative employment,
it may prove a real service in many ways for them to buy a house instead of renting one; indeed,
we should highly recommend them to become the proprietors of the dwellings which they occupy.
But in places where workmen possess no such assurance or reasonable prospect of employment,
we would as earnestly dissuade them from taking a step of this kind. The capital of a working-man--that
on which he must place his dependence--is his labour; and this labour he ought to be in a position
to dispose of to the best advantage. On this account, he requires, as a general rule, to hold
himself in readiness to go wherever his labour is in demand. Of all men, he has the most cause
to be a citizen of the world. He may find it his interest to remove to localities hundreds
of miles off; and therefore the fewer obstructions to his movements, the better. Heritable
property is a fixture. A man cannot take it with him, and the sale of it, even when time is
permitted to seek out a purchaser, is attended with expense and difficulty. No doubt the transfer
of such property might and ought to be vastly lowered in cost; but not until this is done,
will it be time for the more movable part of the working-classes to consider the propriety
of saddling themselves with the ownership of lands and houses. Such, at least, is our opinion,
after much consideration of the subject. So many melancholy instances have we seen of working-men
being ruined by the want of power or will to leave small heritable possessions in country towns,
where employment deserted them, that we entertain a strong feeling against this class of persons
investing their earnings in fixed property.

Upon the whole, the best thing the humbler classes can do with small savings, is to let them
accumulate as movable capital. They should perceive that, generally speaking, a little money
has few advantageous outlets. It is only after its increase to a tolerable sum, that it can
command a good investment. A short time ago, we adverted to the vast benefits that would accrue
to the working-classes, by legalising partnerships in commandite; for this would allow the
clubbing of means for trading purposes without chance of total loss. Another thing for improving
the resources of such classes, would be the issue of small debentures on land, railways, and
other kinds of property; these debentures to be registered in such a manner as would admit
of legal recourse without the tedious and expensive forms now required to enforce their liquidation.
These, then, are things to be struggled for by the humbler orders, indeed by many who ostensibly
belong to classes higher in social standing.

PLEASURES OF LITERATURE.

It may be remembered, that somewhat more than two years ago, Mr Willmott's Journal of Summer-time
in the Country was noticed in these pages. Those who, through that or any other introduction,
have since become acquainted with that exquisite little volume, will be glad to meet the author
again, in the not less charming work which he has recently put forth, on the Pleasures, Objects,
and Advantages of Literature.[4] The theme itself must be naturally attractive to all book-loving
people; and we are prepared to say, that it is treated with felicity and discrimination. We
do not aver that we always concur in the writer's judgments, or hold precisely his views of
criticism; but we are, upon the whole, very decidedly impressed with the general force and
truth of his Discourse, with the gracefulness of his allusions and illustrations, his elegant
and pointed style, and the bland and genial temper in which he writes. The work consists of
a series of short chapters on books, authors, the circumstances in which they wrote, the moods
in which they should be read to be appreciated, the nature and specific qualities of taste,
poetry, fiction, the drama, history, and philosophy. The author's turn of mind is chiefly retrospective:
he writes more in the spirit of the last age than of the present. Indeed, he seems too much
inclined to ignore the value of our later literature; almost the only modern authors whom he
quotes are Hallam, Charles Lamb, and Southey; and it is evident, both from the style and matter
of the work, that the range of his reading has been most extensive in what he terms the 'classical
criticism and biography of the eighteenth century.' This, however, we note only in passing,
and not at all in the way of condemnation; further than as it may indicate the limitations
to be expected in his tone of thought and sentiment.

Mr Willmott, indeed, speaks disparagingly of some of the severer studies--especially of logic
and mathematics; declaring that they 'can only be useful to a full mind,' and that, 'if they
find it empty, they leave it in the same state.' Of course, he may be allowed to have his opinion
on such a matter; but we presume it will not be very generally adopted. We agree with him that,
'in moral impression they are powerless;' yet we are bound to bear in mind that their aim is
not a moral one; and we, furthermore, believe that, within their own scope and province, they
may at least be serviceable in training and developing the understanding. Not to dwell longer
on this little eccentricity of opinion, which is simply one of idiosyncrasy, let us follow
the author into some of the more congenial sections of his dissertation. The following passage,
on 'The three essential qualities of an author,' seems not unsuitable for quotation:--

'Sir Philip Sidney said, that the most flying wits must have three wings--art, meditation,
exercise. Genius is in the instinct of flight. A boy came to Mozart, wishing to compose something,
and inquiring the way to begin. Mozart told him to wait. "You composed much earlier?" "But
asked nothing about it," replied the musician. Cowper expressed the same sentiment to a friend:
"Nature gives men a bias to their respective pursuits, and that strong propensity, I suppose,
is what we mean by genius." M. Angelo is hindered in his childish studies of art; Raffaelle
grows up with pencil and colours for playthings: one neglects school to copy drawings, which
he dared not bring home; the father of the other takes a journey to find his son a worthier
teacher. M. Angelo forces his way; Raffaelle is guided into it. But each looks for it with
longing eyes. In some way or other, the man is tracked in the little footsteps of the child.
Dryden marks the three steps of progress:--

                       "What the child admired,
    The youth endeavoured, and the man ACQUIRED."

'Dryden was an example of his own theory. He read Polybius, with a notion of his historic exactness,
before he was ten years old. Witnesses rise over the whole field of learning. Pope, at twelve,
feasted his eyes in the picture-galleries of Spenser. Murillo filled the margin of his school-books
with drawings. Le Brun, in the beginning of childhood, drew with a piece of charcoal on the
walls of the house. The young Ariosto quietly watched the fierce gestures of his father, forgetting
his displeasure in the joy of copying from life, into a comedy he was writing, the manner and
speech of an old man enraged with his son.

'Cowley, in the history of his own mind, shews the influence of boyish fancies upon later life.
We are not surprised to hear from a school-fellow of the Chancellor Somers, that he was a weakly
boy, who always had a book in his hand, and never looked up at the play of his companions;
to learn from his affectionate biographer, that Hammond at Eton sought opportunities of stealing
away to say his prayers; to read that Tournefort forsook his college class, that he might search
for plants in the neighbouring fields; or that Smeaton, in petticoats, was discovered on the
top of his father's barn, in the act of fixing the model of a windmill which he had constructed.
These early traits of character are such as we expect to find in the cultivated lawyer, who
turned the eyes of his age upon Milton; in the Christian, whose life was one varied strain
of devout praise; in the naturalist, who enriched science by his discoveries; and in the engineer,
who built the Eddystone Lighthouse.'

This accords very well with a notion of our own. We hold that men have a tendency to follow
what they are by nature best qualified to succeed in; and that the fact ought to be regarded
in the education of the individual. Education should include the study and trial of aptitudes,
so that each may be directed to his appropriate vocation. It is true, there are sometimes such
things as 'false tendencies' to be encountered; but these, as Goethe has shewn, may be readily
detected, inasmuch as they are plainly 'unproductive;' that is to say, the thing aimed after
does not come out as a recognisable success. False tendencies are more easily perceived in
others than in ourselves--especially when ambition, interest, or vanity is involved in the
consideration; and on this account the difficulty, perhaps, might not be insurmountable, if
the charge of it could be committed to a really judicious educator. But to say anything further
on the subject would be out of place at present; and, accordingly, we return to what is more
immediately before us.

'The instinct of flight,' continues our author, 'is combined with the instinct of labour. Genius
lights its own fire; but it is constantly collecting materials to keep alive the flame. When
a new publication was suggested to Addison, after the completion of the Guardian, he answered:
"I must now take some time, pour me délasser, and lay in fuel for a future work." The strongest
blaze soon goes out when a man always blows and never feeds it. Johnson declined an introduction
to a popular author with the remark, that he did not desire to converse with a person who had
written more than he had read.

'It is interesting to follow great authors or painters in their careful training and accomplishing
of the mind. The long morning of life is spent in making the weapons and the armour which manhood
and age are to polish and prove. Usher, when nearly twenty years old, formed the daring resolution
of reading all the Greek and Latin fathers, and with the dawn of his thirty-ninth year he completed
the task. Hammond, at Oxford, gave thirteen hours of the day to philosophy and classical literature,
wrote commentaries on all, and compiled indexes for his own use.

'With these calls to industry in our ears, we are not to be deaf to the deep saying of Lord
Brooke, the friend of Sidney, that some men overbuild their nature with books. The motion of
our thoughts is impeded by too heavy a burden; and the mind, like the body, is strengthened
more by the warmth of exercise than of clothes. When Buffon and Hogarth pronounced genius to
be nothing but labour and patience, they forgot history and themselves. The instinct must be
in the mind, and the fire be ready to fall. Toil alone would not have produced the Paradise
Lost or the Principia. The born dwarf never grows to the middle size. Rousseau tells a story
of a painter's servant, who resolved to be the rival or the conqueror of his master. He abandoned
his livery to live by his pencil; but instead of the Louvre, he stopped at a sign-post. Mere
learning is only a compiler, and does with the pen what the compositor does with the type:
each sets up a book with the hand. Stone-masons collected the dome of St Paul's, but Wren hung
it in air.'

There is, perhaps, nothing very profound or original in this, but it is all very sensible and
pleasant. Something of novelty, however, will be observed in the extract which follows next,
on 'The Influence of Air and Situation on the Thoughts.' The consideration, at anyrate, is
curious, both under its physiological and metaphysical aspect.

'It has been a subject of ingenious speculation if country or weather may be said to cherish
or check intellectual growth. Jeremy Collier considered that the understanding needs a kind
climate for its health, and that a reader of nice observation might ascertain from the book
in what latitude, season, or circumstances, it had been written. The opponents are powerful.
Reynolds ridiculed the notion of thoughts shooting forth with greater vigour at the summer
solstice or the equinox; Johnson called it a fantastic foppery.

'The atmospheric theory is as old as Homer. Its laureate is Montesquieu. The more northerly
you go, he said, the sterner the man grows. You must scorch a Muscovite to make him feel. Gray
was a convert. One of the prose hints for his noble fragment of a didactic poem runs thus:
"It is the proper work of education and government united, to redress the faults that arise
from the soil and air." Berkeley entertained the same feeling. Writing to Pope from Leghorn,
and alluding to some half-formed design he had heard him mention of visiting Italy, he continues:
"What might we not expect from a muse that sings so well in the bleak climate of England, if
she felt the same warm sun, and breathed the same air with Virgil and Horace?"

'When Dyer attributes the faults of his Fleece to the Lincolnshire fens, he only awakes a smile.
Keats wrote his Ode to a Nightingale--a poem full of the sweet south--at the foot of Highgate
Hill. But we have the remark of Dryden--probably the result of his own experience--that a cloudy
day is able to alter the thoughts of a man; and, generally, the air we breathe, and the objects
we see, have a secret influence upon our imagination. Burke was certain that Milton composed
Il Penseroso in the long, resounding aisle of a mouldering cloister, or ivied abbey. He beheld
its solemn gloom in the verse. The fine nerves of the mind are braced, and the strings of the
harp are tuned, by different kinds of temperature. "I think," Warburton remarked to Hurd, "you
have often heard me say, that my delicious season is the autumn--the season which gives most
life and vigour to my intellectual faculties. The light mists, or, as Milton calls them, the
steams that rise from the fields in one of these mornings, give the same relief to the views
that the blue of the plum gives to the appetite."

'Mozart composed, whenever he had the opportunity, in the soft air of fine weather. His Don
Giovanni and the Requiem were written in a bowling-green and a garden. Chatterton found a full
moon favourable to poetic invention, and he often sat up all night to enjoy its solemn shining.
Winter-time was most agreeable to Crabbe. He delighted in a heavy fall of snow; and it was
during a severe storm which blocked him within doors, that he portrayed the strange miseries
of Sir Eustace Grey.'

There may be something in this supposed influence of temperature and seasons; but there certainly
is no general law observable in the matter. Shakspeare asks--

    'Oh who can take a fire in his hand
    By thinking of the frosty Caucasus?
    Or wallow naked in December's snows
    By bare remembrance of the summer's heat?'

He might have been answered by Moore, who shut himself up in the wintry wilds of Derbyshire
to write Lalla Rookh--a poem breathing of the perfumes, and glowing in the sunlight of the
golden East; and by Scott, who, in Jermyn Street, St James's, with miles of brick houses round
him, produced his famous introductions to Marmion, some of which may rank with the finest descriptions
of natural scenery in the language. But the way in which people are influenced seems utterly
capricious. We know a writer who is always unfavourably affected by a dull, still atmosphere,
and whose faculties are as invariably exhilarated by a high wind. Cloudy weather does not influence
him disagreeably if it be stormy, but calm, leaden November glooms oppress him with a feeling
bordering upon stupor. These are altogether unproductive days with him. If authors, however,
are subject in their moods to atmospheric and other circumstantial influences, it may be expected
that readers also are to some extent possessed of a like tendency. Mr Willmott has, accordingly,
a suitable suggestive word or two to guide them in their reading. He says:--

'A classification of authors to suit all hours and weathers might be amusing. Ariosto spans
a wet afternoon like a rainbow. North winds and sleet agree with Junius. The visionary tombs
of Dante glimmer into awfuller perspective by moonlight.

'Some books come in with lamps and curtains, and fresh logs. An evening in late autumn, when
there is no moon, and the boughs toss like foam raking its way back down a pebbly shore, is
just the time for Undine. A voyage is read with deepest interest in winter, while the hail
dashes against the window. Southey speaks of this delight--

    "'Tis pleasant by the cheerful hearth to hear
    Of tempests and the dangers of the deep,
    And pause at times and feel that we are safe;
    And with an eager and suspended soul,
    Woo terror to delight us."

