THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. XIX. No. 554.] SATURDAY, JUNE 30, 1832. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

We select this Engraving as an illustration of the elaborate sculptural decoration employed
in domestic architecture about three centuries since; but more particularly as a specimen of
the embellishment of the ecclesiastical residences of that period. It represents a chimney-piece
erected in the Bishop's palace at Exeter, by Peter Courtenay, who was consecrated Bishop of
Exeter, A.D. 1477, and translated to Winchester, A.D. 1486. He had formerly been master of
St. Antony's Hospital, in London.

The bishop was third son of Sir Philip Courtenay of Powderham, knight, (fifth son of Hugh Courtenay,
second Earl of Devonshire), who died 1463.

He was educated at Exeter College, Oxford; made archdeacon of Exeter 1453; dean of the same
church, 1477.

He died 1491, and was probably buried in the chancel at Powderham, where is an effigy of a
bishop inlaid in brass. He built the north tower of Exeter cathedral, and placed in it a great
bell, called after him Peter's bell, with a clock and dial: he built also the tower and good
part of the church at Honiton (which before was only a chapel, now the chancel). In the windows
of the tower are the arms of his parents, now lost; but his paternal arms are on the pillars
of the chancel.[1]

The heraldic embellishments of the chimney-piece are as follow:--

"The arms of Courtenay impaled by those of the see of Exeter are in the centre compartment.
In that on the left hand is the former coat single, supported by two swans collared and chained.
Motto Arma Petri Exon epi. And on the right hand it impales Hungerford, supported by two boars
with the Courtenay label round their necks. Motto Arma Patris et Matris.

"Above the centre compartment is the mitre, with the arms of the see, and a label inscribed
Colompne ecclesie veritatis p'conie;[2] and here the T is thrice repeated.

"The moulding of the arch is charged with the portcullis and foliage alternately; and on the
point are the royal arms in a garter, and supported by two greyhounds.

"The T with the bell appendant occurs on the sides of the centre coat; also the T single and
labels, and over the top of the chimney the T and P C for Peter Courtenay.

"The three Sickles and the Sheaf in the angles of the three compartments are the badges of
the barons of Hungerford."

Further explanation is necessary, as well as interesting for its connexion with two popular
origins--St. Antony's fire, and St. Antony, or "Tantony's Pig."

"The monks of the order of St. Antony wore a black habit with the letter T of a blue colour
on the breast. This may sufficiently account for the appearance of that figure among the ornaments
of Bishop Courtenay's arms. The following extract from Stow's Survey of London may serve to
explain the appendant Bell.

"The Proctors of this hospital were to collect the benevolence of charitable persons towards
the building and supporting thereof. And among other things observed in my youth I remember
that the officers charged with the oversight of the markets in this city did divers times take
from the market people pigs starved, or otherwise unwholesome for men's sustenance: these they
did slit in the ear. One of the Proctors of St. Antony tied a bell about the neck, and let
it feed among the dunghills, and no man would hurt it, or take it up; but if any gave them
bread, or other feeding, such they would know, watch for, and daily follow, whining till they
had something given them; whereupon was raised a proverb, 'such a one will follow such a one
and whine as it were an Antony pig;' but if such a pig grew to be fat, and came to good liking,
as oft times they did, then the Proctor would take him up to the use of the hospital."

"The knights of this order (of St. Antony) wore a collar of gold, with an hermit's girdle,
to which hung a crutch and a little bell.[3] See in the Gentleman's Magazine for the year 1750,
the plate of the orders of knighthood, where T, whether a letter or crutch, is given to the
order of St. Antony of Ethiopia.

"The saint is always represented with this appendage in Missals, and on monuments, the T hanging
from his girdle, and the bell from the neck of the pig at his feet."

We are indebted for this subject to the Vetusta Monumenta of the Antiquarian Society.

The form of the arch will be recognised as strictly of the ecclesiastical architectural character;
and, with reference to this style, we may observe that "the ecclesiastical residence, the dwelling
of the mitred abbot with his train of shaven devotees, or of the princely bishop and humbler
priest, naturally was designed to correspond with the consecrated edifice round which these
buildings were usually grouped; and hence the architecture of the abbey or priory is essentially
of a piece with that of the cathedral." Reverting to the chimney-piece, it should be added
that formerly both on the continent, as well as in England, fire-places and chimneys were decorated
with architectural ornaments, as columns, entablatures, statues, &c., like the entrance to
a small temple; now they are mostly made of marble, and more for the office of sculptural decoration
than for the orders of architecture.

    [1] Polwhele's Devon. II. p. 281.

    [2] The bishop's motto was, Quod verum tutum.

    [3] Chamber's Dict v. ANTONY.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG

WRITTEN IN IMITATION OF COWLEY'S MISTRESS.

(For the Mirror.)

  Oh, where didst borrow that last sigh,
    And that relenting groan;
  Ladies that sigh and not for love,
    Usurp what's not their own.

  Love's arrows sooner armour pierce
    Than that soft snowy skin;
  Thine eyes can only teach us love,
    They cannot take it in.

                           J.H.L.H.[4]

    [4] Yes--if confined to Anecdotes.--ED. M.

    *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS

THE GROANING TREE OF BADDESLEY, HAMPSHIRE.

(For the Mirror.)

Gilpin, in his "Remarks on Forest Scenery," says, A cottager, who lived near the centre of
the village, heard frequently a strange noise behind his house, like that of a person in extreme
agony. Soon after, it caught the attention of his wife who was then confined to her bed. She
was a timorous woman, and being greatly alarmed, her husband endeavoured to persuade her that
the noise she heard was only the bellowing of the stags in the forest. By degrees, however,
the neighbours on all sides heard it, and the circumstance began to be much talked of. It was
by this time plainly discovered that the groaning noise proceeded from an Elm, which grew at
the bottom of the garden. It was a young, vigorous tree, and, to all appearance, perfectly
sound. In a few weeks the fame of the groaning tree was spread far and wide; and people from
all parts flocked to hear it. Among others it attracted the curiosity of the late Prince and
Princess of Wales, who resided at that time, for the advantage of a sea-bath, at Pilewell,
within a quarter of a mile of the groaning tree.

Though the country people assigned many superstitious causes for this strange phenomenon, the
naturalist could assign no physical one, that was in any degree satisfactory. Some thought
it was owing to the twisting and friction of the roots: others thought that it proceeded from
water, which had collected in the body of the tree; or, perhaps, from pent air: but the cause
that was alleged appeared unequal to the effect. In the mean time, the tree did not always
groan; sometimes disappointing its visitants; yet no cause could be assigned for its temporary
cessations, either from seasons, or weather. If any difference was observed, it was thought
to groan least when the weather was wet, and most when it was clear and frosty; but the sound
at all times seemed to come from the roots.

Thus the groaning tree continued an object of astonishment, during the space of eighteen or
twenty months, to all the country around; and for the information of distant parts, a pamphlet
was drawn up, containing a particular account of it. A gentleman of the name of Forbes, making
too rash an experiment to discover the cause, bored a hole in its trunk. After this it never
groaned. It was then rooted up, with a further view to make a discovery; but still nothing
appeared which led to any investigation of the cause. It was universally, however, believed,
that there was no trick in the affair; but that some natural cause really existed, though never
understood.--(Vol. I. p. 163.) P.T.W.

    *       *       *       *       *

CURIOUS PARTICULARS RELATING TO HURLEY, IN BERKSHIRE.

(For the Mirror.)

Mr. Ireland, in his "Picturesque views on the river Thames," observes that "the fascinating
scenery of this neighbourhood has peculiarly attracted the notice of the clergy of former periods."

Hurley Place was originally a monastery. In the Domesday Book, it is said to have lately belonged
to Edgar; but was then the property of Geoffrey de Mandeville, who received it from William
the Conqueror, as a reward for his gallant conduct in the battle of Hastings; and in the year
1086 founded a monastery here for Benedictines, and annexed it as a cell to Westminster Abbey,
where the original charter is still preserved.

On the dissolution of the monasteries, Hurley became the property of a family named Chamberlain,
of whom it was purchased, in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, by Richard Lovelace, a soldier of
fortune, who went on an expedition against the Spaniards with Sir Francis Drake, and erected
the present mansion on the ruins of the ancient building, with the property he acquired in
that enterprise. The remains of the monastery may be traced in the numerous apartments which
occupy the west end of the house; and in a vault beneath the hall some bodies in monkish habits
have been found buried. Part of the chapel, or refectory, also, may be seen in the stables,
the windows of which are of chalk; and though made in the Conqueror's time, appear as fresh
as if they were of modern workmanship. The Hall is extremely spacious, occupying nearly half
the extent of the house. The grand saloon is decorated in a singular style, the panels being
painted with upright landscapes, the leafings of which are executed with a kind of silver lacker.
The views seem to be Italian, and are reputed to have been the work of Salvator Rosa, purposely
executed to embellish this apartment. The receipt of the painter is said to be in the possession
of Mr. Wilcox, the late resident.

During the reigns of Charles II., and James, his successor, the principal nobility held frequent
meetings in a subterraneous vault beneath this house, for the purpose of ascertaining the measures
necessary to be pursued for reestablishing the liberties of the kingdom, which the insidious
hypocrisy of one monarch, and the more avowed despotism of the other, had completely undermined
and destroyed. It is reported also, that the principal papers which produced the revolution
of 1688, were signed in the dark recess at the end of the vault. These circumstances have been
recorded by Mr. Wilcox, in an inscription written at the extremity of the vault, which, on
account of the above circumstances, was visited by the Prince of Orange after he had obtained
the crown; by General Paoli in the year 1780; and by George III. on the 14th of November, 1785.

The Lovelace family was ennobled by Charles I., who in the third year of his reign, created
Richard Lovelace, Baron Hurley, which title became extinct in 1736. The most valuable part
of the estate was about that time sold to the Greave family and afterwards to the Duke of Marlborough:
the other part, consisting of the mansion house and woodlands, to Mrs. Williams, sister to
Dr. Wilcox, who was bishop of Rochester about the middle of the last century. This lady was
enabled to make the purchase by a very remarkable instance of good fortune. She had bought
two tickets in one lottery, both of which became prizes: the one of 500l., the other of 20,000l.
From the daughter of Mrs. Williams it descended to Mr. Wilcox in the year 1771.--Beauties of
England and Wales.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

CLAVERING'S AUTO-BIOGRAPHY.

Containing opinions, characters, &c. of his Cotemporaries.

Shelley had some excellent qualities: I attribute his eccentricities to a spice of insanity.
He often wrote unintelligibly;--sometimes in short lyrics, beautifully. The ashes of him and
Keats sleep together in the Protestant chapel at Rome. I am resolved once more to visit Lirici,
where the funeral pile of his relics were lighted. I am never so happy as when I am travelling
on the Continent; the mere change of air, and locomotion, gives me vigour. I saw old Sir William
Wraxall at Dover, a few days before he died, and meant to have accompanied him to Paris. He
was still full of anecdote, to which it was necessary to listen with caution; but his information
was often curious and valuable. He was one of our oldest litterateurs.

Some years ago I met Sismondi: I could not agree with his ULTRA-LIBERAL politics! He has married
an English lady, but does not seem to love the English. He himself once suffered from excessive
revolutionism, and was condemned to death by it when young, about 1794, in the reign of terror,
when Monsieur Raville and others were shot at Geneva. One would have thought that this would
have made a convert of him in favour of legitimate governments. But I forget: he does not call
them legitimate! He is a thick man, of middle height, with strong features, sallow, with weak
eyes, rapid and rather indistinct in his articulation, with a character of great generosity
and kindness; but not very tolerant to others in political thinking.

About 1802, strange lawyers perched upon the judgment-seat. Law, Pepper, Arden, and John Mitford!
The little Pepper once took it into his head to review a cavalry regiment of fencibles, when
he was Master of the Rolls. An unruly horse of one of the officers got head in a charge, and
nearly ran over the affrighted judge. I was on the field, saw it all; and heard the small,
staring man's terrible shriek! He swore that nothing should ever make him go soldiering again!
He could not recollect his law-cases for a fortnight to come! He had some fun about him, and
was always crying out, "Ne sutor ultra crepidam, ne sutor ultra crepidam." and indeed he looked
like a shoemaker. A bowel-complaint carried him off. Perhaps it was the fright!

A certain learned theological bishop of that fraternity, a warm controversialist, long since
dead, was of an amorous disposition. One day, being left alone with a pretty young lady, he
began to be rude to her; she knocked off his prelated wig, and stamped it under her foot. At
that time the footman entered, and all was confusion! The girl was in tears; the bishop's pate
was bald. The footman was left to wonder! Some squibs appeared in the papers of the day, which
few understood. I wrote a piquant epigram, which I will not revive. Old Thurlow, who was the
prelate's friend and patron, laughed outright, and clapped me on the back when I dined with
him a few days afterwards.

