To tempt means to try.  Mother tries you sometimes, to see whether you can be trusted; and
God tries us all sometimes.  But if God tries us, it is to make us better; and if Satan tries
us, it is to make us worse.

Every time that Jesus was tempted, He said, 'It is written,' and then He told Satan something
'which was written in the Bible.  That is the very best way to fight Satan.  The Bible is called
'the Sword of the Spirit,' and Satan is afraid when he sees us using that Sword.  Let us ask
God to fill us, like Jesus, with the Holy Spirit, and then we shall soon learn how to use the
Sword of the Spirit, and we too shall be able to drive Satan away when he comes to tempt us.

Only we must be sure to read the Bible, as Jesus used to do, or else we shall never be able
to drive Satan away by telling him the things that God has written there.

Two men were standing close to John when Jesus came by, and they heard what he said.  The name
of one of these men was Andrew, and of the other John.  Jesus knew that they would like to
speak to Him, so He turned round and asked them what they wanted.  'Master,' they said, 'where
dwellest Thou?' (that means 'where are you living?')  Jesus said, 'Come, and you shall see.'
And He took the two disciples to His home, and He let them stay with Him the whole of the day.
What a happy day that must have been!

Andrew had a brother called Simon, and he went and found him, and told him that he had found
the Messiah, and brought him to see his new Master.  So now Jesus had three disciples--John,
Andrew, and Simon; and next day He took them away with Him to Galilee.  While they were going
along, Jesus saw a man called Philip, who came from the place where Simon and Andrew lived
when they were at home.  Jesus told Philip to come with Him, and he came.  But Philip went
to a friend of his, a very good man called Nathanael, also called Bartholomew, and he told
him that he had found Jesus of Nazareth, the Messiah, and begged him to come and see Him.

How many disciples had Jesus now?  Let us see.  John, Andrew, Simon, Philip, and Nathanael--five.
And very likely John had brought his brother James to Jesus.  If so, that would make six.

Directly Jesus came into Galilee He was invited to a wedding, at a place called Cana, and all
of His disciples with Him.  Jesus went to the wedding because He likes to see people happy,
and loves to make them happy.  In America, people often drink more wine at weddings and at
other times than is good for them, and a great many people go without any wine at all, so as
to set a good example.  But in the East it is different.  The people there hardly ever take
too much wine.  So Jesus allowed His disciples to use it, and He drank it Himself.  There was
some wine at the wedding party to which Jesus went; but presently it came to an end.  Then
Mary came to Jesus, and said, 'They have no wine.'  Jesus knew what Mary was thinking about,
but He had to tell her to wait; and He had to make Mary understand that He could not do everything
now which she told Him to do, exactly as when He was a boy. He was God's Son as well as Mary's,
and He had God's work to do, and He must do it at God's time.

But when Mary went back, she told the servants to do whatever Jesus told them.  Close to the
house there were six great stone jars or waterpots, and Jesus said to the servants, 'Fill the
waterpots with water.  And they filled them up to the brim.  And lo! when the water was taken
out of the jars, it was water no longer, but wine.

This was the very first miracle that Jesus did, and He did it to make people happy, and to
make them believe that He was the Son of God. Dear children, Jesus wants you to be happy. 
And the best way to be happy is to ask Jesus to go with you everywhere and always, just as
those wedding people asked Him to come to their party.

He did not stay very many days in Capernaum.  The lovely spring flowers told Him that the Passover
time was coming, so He went up with His disciples, to Jerusalem.  When Jesus had come to Jerusalem,
you may be sure that His disciples and He soon went to the Temple, and when they got inside
the great Court of the Gentiles they found a market was going on there.  Men were selling oxen
and sheep and doves for sacrifice.  Others were sitting at little tables changing money.  And
there must have been plenty of noise, for people in the East shout and quarrel a great deal
when they are buying or selling.

When Jesus saw this, He was angry; and He made a whip with pieces of cord, and He drove away
all the people who were selling in the Temple. And He turned out the sheep and the oxen; and
he told the men who sold doves to take them away, and not turn His Father's House into a store.
Jesus upset the tables of the money-changers too, and poured out their money.

Jesus did a great many wonderful things when He was in Jerusalem that Passover time, and many
persons saw His miracles, and thought, 'Yes, this is the Messiah.'  But Jesus did not trust
any of those people.  He knew that they did not really love Him.  But there was one man in
Jerusalem who did want to be Jesus Christ's disciple.  His name was Nicodemus.  He was a great
Rabbi, but not proud like the other Rabbis, and he wanted to ask Jesus a great many questions.
But he did not want the other Rabbis and the priests to see him coming to Jesus.  So he came
to Jesus by night--in the dark.

Did Jesus say, 'You are not brave, Nicodemus, I am ashamed of you; go away'?  Ah no!  He talked
kindly to him, and He told him that he would have to be born again.  He meant that Nicodemus
must ask God to send him His Holy Spirit, and to give him a new heart.  And then Jesus explained
to Nicodemus why He had come down from heaven.  It was a long, rough journey, and at last they
came near a town called Sychar.  Near by was the well dug by Jacob when he lived in Shechem.
Jesus was so tired that He sat down to rest on the edge of the well, while His disciples went
on to buy food.

While Jesus was sitting by the well, a woman came there to draw water. Jesus asked her to do
something kind for Him, He said 'Give Me to drink.'  The woman was surprised, and said to Him,
'You are a Jew, and I am a Samaritan.  Why then do you ask me for water?'

Jesus said, 'IF YOU KNEW WHO I AM, YOU WOULD HAVE ASKED ME, AND I WOULD HAVE GIVEN YOU LIVING
WATER.'  Jesus meant the Holy Spirit.  He gives the Holy Spirit to everyone who asks Him.

Then Jesus spoke to the woman about the bad things she had done, and she tried to make Him
talk about something else.  But she could not stop His wonderful words.  At last she said,
'I know that the Messiah is coming.  He will tell us all things.'  Then Jesus said to her,
'I THAT SPEAK UNTO THEE AM HE.'

Just then His disciples came up to the well, and they were very much astonished to see Him
talking to the woman.  The Jew men were too proud to talk much to women, even if the women
were Jews; and this was a Samaritan.  But the disciples did not ask Jesus any questions about
why He talked to the woman.  They brought Him the things they had been buying, and said, 'Master,
eat.'  But Jesus was so happy that He had been able to speak good words to that poor woman
that He did not feel hungry any more.  He told His disciples that doing God's work was the
food He liked best.

After this Jesus lived for awhile first at Nazareth, and then at Capernaum.  There was a boy
ill in Capernaum just then with a fever. It is so hot near the Sea of Galilee that the people
who live there often get fever.  That sick boy's father was rich, but money could not make
the dying boy well.  His father had heard of Jesus, and when he knew that Jesus had come into
Galilee, and that He was only a few miles away, he came to Him, and begged Him to come down
to Capernaum and make his child well.  At first Jesus said to him, 'You will not believe on
Me unless you see Me do some wonderful thing.'  But when He saw how eager the poor father was,
He thought He would try him, and He said to him, 'Go thy way, thy son liveth.'  Directly Jesus
said that, the man felt sure in his heart that his boy was well.  He did not ask Jesus any
more to come with him, but he just went back home quietly by himself.

Next day, as he was going down the long hilly road from Cana to Capernaum, some of the servants
from his house came to meet him, and they said to him, 'Thy son liveth.'  Then the father asked
them what time it was when the boy began to get better, and said, 'Yesterday, at the seventh
hour (that means at one o'clock) the fever left him.'  Then the father knew that that was the
very time when Jesus had said to him, 'Thy son liveth,' and he and all the people in the house
believed in Jesus.

The Jews could not bear paying taxes to the Romans, and they hated the publicans.  They would
not eat with them or talk with them.  But Jesus did not hate the publicans.  He only hated
the wrong things they did. So one day, when He was outside the town of Capernaum, and saw Matthew
sitting and taking the taxes, He said to him, 'Follow Me.'  And Matthew got up from his work,
and at once left all and followed Jesus.

Jesus often told His disciples beautiful stories.  One day He told them a story to teach them
not to be proud like the Pharisees.  Twice a week I go without food, and I give away a great
deal of money.  The Pharisee thought he was good; he did not want to be forgiven, and so God
let him carry all his sins back home with him again.  But the publican knew he was a sinner,
and was sorry, and so God forgave his sins.'

While Jesus was in Capernaum, He went every Sabbath day to teach in the synagogue.  One day
a man shouted out--

'What have we to do with Thee, Thou Jesus of Nazareth?  I know Thee who Thou art, the Holy
One of God.'

Satan had put an unclean spirit, or devil, in that man.  Jesus was not angry with the poor
man, but He spoke to the unclean spirit, and said, 'Be silent, and come out of him.'  He came
out, and the man became well.  The people in the synagogue were greatly surprised.  They said,
'What thing is this?  He commandeth even the unclean spirits and they obey Him.'

When the service was over, the people who had seen the miracle went home, and talked to everybody
about what they had seen.  Some of them had sick friends, and some had friends with unclean
spirits, and they longed to bring them to Jesus.  But it was the Sabbath, and they would not
bring them until the evening, at which time their Sabbath came to an end.  So as soon as the
sun set that Sabbath day, a great crowd was seen standing round Peter's house.  It seemed as
if all the people of Capernaum must be there!  They had brought their sick friends, and laid
them down at the door.  And Jesus put His hands on the sick people, and healed them all.

In the east there is a dreadful illness called leprosy, and the people who have it are called
lepers.  No doctor can cure it.  At the time when Jesus lived on the earth, lepers were not
allowed to come into cities.  And they had to go about with nothing on their heads, and with
their dresses torn, and with their mouths covered over; and when they saw anybody coming, they
had to call out, 'Unclean! unclean!'

One day when Jesus went into a town a leper saw Him.  The poor man came to Jesus and knelt
down before Him, and fell on his face.

Sin is just like leprosy.  A baby's naughtiness does not look very bad; but that naughtiness
spreads and gets stronger as baby gets older, and nobody but Jesus can take it away.

Jesus Christ's body must often have felt very tired, for crowds followed Him about all the
time.  They came from Perea, and from Judaea, and from other places too, to see the wonderful
new Teacher. And Jesus preached to them all, and healed their sicknesses.  The most wonderful
sermon that was ever preached in all the world is called the Sermon on the Mount, because Jesus
sat down on a hill to preach it.

After a time Jesus went up again to Jerusalem.  In or near Jerusalem there was a spring of
water which was as good as medicine, because it made sick people well if they bathed in it
often enough.  This spring ran into a bathing-place called the Pool of Bethesda.  Numbers of
sick persons came to bathe in that pool.  One Sabbath day Jesus saw quite a crowd there.  Some
were blind, some were lame, some were sick of the palsy.  They were sitting, or lying, by the
side of the pool.  Jesus was very sorry for one poor man there.  He had been ill thirty-eight
years.  So Jesus said to the man, 'Arise, take up thy bed, and walk.' And at once the sick
man was well, and took up his mattress and walked.

Now the Rabbis had a number of very silly rules about the Sabbath day. Even if a man broke
his arm or his leg on the Sabbath the Rabbis would not allow the doctor to put the bone right
till the next day.  So they were very angry when they found that Jesus had made that poor man
well on the Sabbath day, and had told him to carry his mattress home.  They told the man he
was doing very wrong, and they tried to kill Jesus. But Jesus told them that His Heavenly Father
was never idle, and that He must do the same works as God.  That made the Rabbis more angry
than ever.  They said, 'He calls God His own Father, making Himself equal with God.'  From
that time the Jews in Jerusalem made up their minds more than ever to kill Jesus; and wherever
He went they sent men to watch Him and listen to His words, so that they might make up some
excuse for putting Him to death.

What kind of work does God do on Sunday, dear children?  Why, He does all sorts of kind and
beautiful things.  He makes the sun rise, and the flowers grow, and the birds sing; and He
takes care of little children on Sunday exactly the same as he does on other days.  And Jesus
did the same kind of work, He made people happy and well on the Sabbath.  And we may do works
of love--kind, loving things for other people--on Sunday.

Another Sabbath day, soon after that, the Lord Jesus and His disciples were walking through
a cornfield.  The disciples were hungry, so they rubbed some corn in their hands as they went
along, and ate it.  Some of the Pharisees saw the disciples, and they were shocked; and they
spoke to Jesus about it.  But Jesus told the Pharisees that the disciples were doing nothing
wrong.  God meant it as a rest for our souls and bodies.

CHAPTER VII

A FRIEND FOR THE SORROWFUL

One day Jesus went to a town called Nain (or Beautiful), about twenty-five miles from Capernaum.
A great crowd of people followed Jesus and His disciples; and when they came near to the gate
of the city of Nain, they saw a funeral coming out.  The dead body of a young man was being
carried out on a bier to be buried.

When Jesus saw the poor mother crying and sobbing, He felt very sorry for her, and He said
to her, 'Weep not.'  And Jesus came and touched the bier, and the men who were carrying it
stood still.  And Jesus said, 'Young man, I say unto thee, Arise.'  And life came back into
that dead body again.  He that was dead sat up and began to speak.  And Jesus gave him back
to his mother.

A Pharisee, called Simon, once asked Jesus to come and have dinner with him.  When anyone in
that land went to a feast, the master of the house used to kiss him, and say, 'The Lord be
with you,' and put some sweet smelling oil on his hair and beard, and the servants used to
bring the visitor water to wash his feet.  But none of those kind things were done to Jesus
when He came to that Pharisee's house.  Presently Jesus and Simon began to eat.  In that country,
people often lay down to eat.  Broad settees, or couches, were put round the table, and the
visitors used to lie down in rows on these settees.  Their heads were near the table, and their
feet were the other way.  They lay down on their left side, and they had cushions to put their
elbows on, so that they could raise themselves up while they were eating.  While Jesus and
Simon were at dinner, a woman came in out of the street.  In the East, people walk in and out
of other people's houses just as they like.  But that woman had been very wicked, and Simon
was not pleased when he saw her come in.  But nobody said anything to her.  So she came to
Jesus, and stood at His feet, behind the couch on which He w as lying, and cried till the tears
ran down her face.  Then as her tears dropped on to the feet of Jesus, she stooped down and
wiped them away with her long hair.  And then she kissed the feet of Jesus many times, and
put precious sweet-smelling ointment upon them.  Perhaps she had heard some beautiful words
which Jesus had just been saying to the people out of doors--

'COME UNTO ME, ALL YE THAT LABOUR AND ARE HEAVY LADEN, AND I WILL GIVE YOU BEST.'

Her sins were like a heavy load, and so she had come to Jesus.

But Simon thought to himself, 'If Jesus had really come from God, He would have known how wicked
this woman is, and He would not have allowed her to touch Him.'

Jesus knew what Simon was thinking, and He said that once upon a time there were two men who
owed some money.  One owed a great deal of money, and the other owed a little.  But when the
time came for them to pay the money they could not do it.  And the kind man forgave them both.

Jesus then asked Simon which of the two men would love that kind friend most.

Simon said, 'I suppose he to whom he forgave most.'

Jesus said that that was quite right.  Then He turned to the woman, and said to Simon: 'Seest
thou this woman?

After Jesus had finished all the work He wanted to do in Nain, He went again into every part
of Galilee to tell people the good news that a Saviour had come.

Jesus preached to the crowds out of a boat.  He told them most beautiful stories.  They liked
these stories so much that they did not care to go away--not even when it was evening.  But
Jesus and His disciples needed rest, so Jesus told the disciples to go over to the other side
of the lake.

When the boat started, Jesus was so tired that He lay down at the end, out of the way of the
men who were rowing, and put His head upon a pillow, and fell fast asleep.  Soon the wind began
to blow, and it blew louder and louder.   Then the waves curled over and dashed into the boat
till the boat was nearly full.  But still Jesus slept quietly on. The disciples were afraid
that their boat would sink, and they came to Jesus, and woke Him, and said, 'Master!  Master!
we perish!  Lord, save!'  And Jesus arose, and told the wind to stop, and He said to the sea,
'Peace, be still.'  And suddenly the wind stopped, and the sea was quite smooth.  Then Jesus
said gently to His disciples, 'Where is your faith?'  Those disciples might have known that
the boat could not sink when Jesus was in it.

When Jesus came back to Capernaum, a man, called Jairus, fell down at His feet and begged Him
to go to his house, where his little girl, about twelve years old, was dying.  So Jesus and
His disciples started to go to Jairus' house, and a great crowd of people went with Him.  But
while they were going, someone came to Jairus, and said, 'It is of no use to trouble the Master
any more.  The child is dead.'  But Jesus said to him quickly, 'Do not be afraid.  Only believe,
and she shall be made well.'

When Jesus came to the house of Jairus, He heard a great noise.  As soon as anyone dies in
the East, people come to the house, and cry and howl, and play wretched music.  They are paid
to do that.  That was the noise which Jesus heard, and he asked, 'Why do you make this ado?
The little maid is sleeping.'  And those rude people laughed at Jesus, just as if He did not
know what He was talking about.  So Jesus turned them all out.

Then Jesus took three of His disciples--Peter, and James and John--and Jairus and his wife;
and they went together to look at the child. There she was, lying quite still.  Life had flown
away from her body. But Jesus took hold of the girl's hand, and said, 'My little lamb, I say
unto thee, Arise.'  And life flew back to her body again, and she opened her eyes and got up,
and walked.  And Jesus told her father and mother to give her something to eat.

When Jesus came out of Jairus' house, two blind men followed Him, begging Him to make them
well.  Jesus waited till He had got back to the house where He was staying and then He touched
their eyes, and made them see.

Just about this time Jesus had some very sad news.  Herod Antipas, the son of wicked King Herod,
had shut up John the Baptist in a prison, called the Black Castle, by the side of the Dead
Sea.  Part of that castle was a beautiful palace, with lovely furniture and a coloured marble
floor.  One day Herod gave a grand birthday party.  Herod had married a very wicked woman,
who was at the party.  Her name was Herodias.  Herodias hated John the Baptist, because he
had said that she ought not to be Herod's wife.  So she made up her mind to have John the Baptist
killed.  Herodias had a daughter called Salome, who danced beautifully.  And on that birthday
Herod was so pleased with Salome's dancing that he said, 'I will give you anything you ask
me for.' Salome went to her mother, and said, 'What shall I ask?'  And Herodias said, 'Ask
for the head of John the Baptist.'  And Salome came back quickly and said, 'I want the head
of John the Baptist.'

Now, it is wrong to break a promise.  But it is not wrong to break a wicked promise.  It is
wrong ever to have made it.  Herod was sorry, but he was afraid of what other people in the
party would think if he did not do what he had said.  So he sent his soldiers to the prison,
and had John the Baptist's head cut off to give to that dancing-girl.

Jesus had sent His twelve disciples out to preach to people He could not go and see Himself.
When they came back they had a great deal to talk about, and they were very tired.  But there
were always so many people coming to see Jesus that they could get no quiet time at all, no
time even to eat.  They were all at the Lake of Galilee again, and Jesus told them to come
away with Him into a desert place, and rest awhile.  That desert place was near a town called
Bethsaida, where Peter, and his brother Andrew, and Philip lived once upon a time.

Jesus and His disciples got into a boat as quietly as they could, and went away.  But some
people near the lake caught sight of the boat, and they saw who was in it; and they ran so
fast along the shore of the lake that they got to the desert before Jesus was there.  Jesus
felt very sorry for these people, and He began to teach them many things. By and by it got
late, and Jesus said to the disciples, 'How many loaves have you?  Go and see.'  And Andrew
said, 'There is a boy herewith five barley loaves and two fishes; but what are they among so
many?'  And Jesus told him to bring the loaves and fishes.  Then Jesus said, 'Make the people
sit down.'  So the disciples arranged the crowds in rows on the grass.  And when every one
was ready, Jesus took the five loaves and the two fishes in His hands, and He blessed them,
and divided them, and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the people.
And there was plenty for everybody.  Jesus made those loaves and fishes last out till everybody
had had enough.  And then He said, 'Gather up the fragments (that means the little pieces)
that are left, that nothing be lost.'  And the disciples picked the little pieces up, and put
them together in baskets.  And there were twelve large baskets full--more than they had at
first.  There were five thousand men in that grassy place, and a great many women and children
besides.  And when the people saw the miracle that Jesus had done they said, 'THIS MUST BE
THE MESSIAH;' and they wanted to make Him their king--the king of their country, but not the
king of their hearts.

Jesus did not wish to be made a king like Herod or Caesar.  He was God, so He was King of kings
already.  He made His disciples go away at once in the boat to the other side of the lake,
and He sent the crowds away Himself.  When Jesus was alone, He went up into a mountain and
prayed. But now a great wind began to blow, and the waves on the Sea of Galilee began to toss
about.  The disciples rowed hard, but they could not get on; the wind kept trying to blow them
back.  But Jesus saw them, and when the night was nearly over, He came to them walking on the
sea. The disciples had never seen Him walking on the water before, and they could not understand
who He was, and they cried out for fear.  But Jesus was sorry for them, and He spoke kindly
to them directly and said, 'BE OF GOOD CHEER (that means, 'Be glad').  IT IS I.  BE NOT AFRAID.'

And Peter said, 'Lord, if it be Thou, bid me come unto Thee on the water.'  And Jesus said,
'Come.'  And Peter jumped out of the boat, and walked on the water to go to Jesus.  And the
disciples fell down at the feet of Jesus, and said 'THOU ART THE SON OF GOD.'  Then, all at
once, they saw that their boat was close to the land.  Jesus had brought it there.

CHAPTER VIII

MORE WONDERFUL WORKS AND WORDS

And now Jesus went right away from the Sea of Galilee again to Caesarea Philippi.  That place
was called Caesarea after Augustus Caesar, Emperor of Rome, and Philippi after Herod Philip.
When they were going to Caesarea Philippi, Jesus talked quietly to His disciples, and said,
'Whom do you say that I am?'  Peter almost always spoke first, before the others had time to
say anything, and he said quickly, 'THOU ART THE CHRIST, THE SON OF THE LIVING GOD.'  Jesus
was very much pleased with that answer.

Then Jesus called the people who stood near, and His disciples too, and He told them that if
they followed Him, they too might have to die for His sake.  But He told them that they must
not mind that, because heaven is better than this world.  And He told them that if they were
ashamed of Him, He should be ashamed of them before His Father and the holy angels.  Dear children,
I hope, when you go to school, or are with your little friends, that you will never be ashamed
of Jesus.

About a week after that talk with His disciples, Jesus took Peter, and James, and John into
a high hill alone to pray.  There is a splendid high mountain near Caesarea Philippi, called
Hermon.  All at once, as Jesus was praying, the disciples saw that His face shown like the
sun, and His clothes were white and shining like the light.  And as the disciples looked, they
saw two men talking with Jesus, called Moses and Elijah, two holy men who went to heaven long,
long ago.  We do not know how long they talked.  Peter, and James, and John were men, so they
could not look very long at those heavenly visitors; soon their eyes closed, and they fell
fast asleep.  When they woke up, Moses and Elijah were still there, and when the disciples
saw Jesus again, looking so bright and beautiful, they were very much afraid.

When they came down from the mountain, they saw a crowd down below. Jesus had left nine of
His disciples behind when He went up Mount Hermon; and now He saw a great number of persons
all round them, and heard some Jews worrying them with questions.  When Jesus came near enough
to speak, He asked what was the matter.  And a man came running to Him out of the crowd, and
begged Him to look at his boy--his only child.  And he said to Jesus, 'If Thou canst do anything,
take pity on me, and help me.'  And Jesus made the boy well from that very hour. The disciples
had not had faith enough themselves to be able to do that sick boy any good.

Every year the Jews had to pay half a shekel of money for the splendid Temple in Jerusalem;
and when Jesus came back to Capernaum, the men who were collecting the money came to Peter,
and said, 'Does not your Master pay the half-shekel?'  And Peter said, 'Yes.'  Now the Temple
was God's house, and Jesus was God's Son.  And Jesus explained to Peter when he came into the
house that kings did not expect their own sons to pay them taxes.  As Jesus came near, they
cried out, 'Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.'  Nine of the lepers were Jews, and one was a
Samaritan.  And Jesus was sorry for them all, and said, 'Go, show yourselves to the priests.'
So they turned straight round to go to the priests, and lo! as they were going along the road,
they suddenly felt that they were strong and well again.  When the Samaritan felt in himself
that the leprosy had gone away, he turned back, and threw himself down at the feet of Jesus,
and thanked Him, and thanked God too for all His goodness.  But none of the nine Jews came
back to thank Jesus.

A few days after that a man came to Jesus, and asked how he could get to heaven.  Jesus said
that he must love God with all his heart, and his neighbor as himself.

Just opposite the Temple hill, Mount Moriah, there was another hill, called the Mount of Olives.
On the other side of the Mount of Olives was a village, called Bethany, and Jesus often walked
over the hill to see some friends of His there, a brother and two sisters who lived in the
village.  Their names were Mary and Martha and Lazarus.  Jesus loved them very much, and they
loved Him.  But Mary and Martha showed their love in very different ways.  Mary sat as quiet
and still as possible when Jesus came in, and listened to every word that He said; and Martha
wanted so much to make Him happy and comfortable that she ran about the whole time doing things
for Him, instead of listening to the beautiful words He was saying.

Jesus likes you and me to work for Him; but He likes us to talk to Him in prayer too, and to
listen to the things that He whispers in our hearts, and to the words that He says to us in
the Bible.

CHAPTER IX.

THE MAN BORN BLIND, AND LAZARUS.

One Sabbath day, most likely the next Sabbath day after the Feast of Tabernacles, Jesus saw
a blind beggar out of doors.  That poor man had always been blind.  He had never been able
to see at all.  Jesus spat on the ground, and put the wet earth on the blind man's eyes, and
said, 'Go, wash in the pool of Siloam.'  And the man went and washed, and came back able to
see.  The people who met him began to ask him, 'How were thine eyes opened?'  And the man told
them.  Then they wanted to know where Jesus was.  But the man did not know that.  Then the
people brought him to the Pharisees to see what they would say.  And the Pharisees said, 'How
is it that you can see now?'  And the man told them.

Then the Pharisees turned him out of the synagogue.  Jesus heard about that, and He came to
the lonely man, and said, 'Dost thou believe on the Son of God?'  And the man said, 'Who is
He, Lord, that I might believe 'on Him?'  And Jesus said to him, 'THOU HAST BOTH SEEN HIM,
AND HE IT IS THAT TALKETH WITH THEE.'  Then the man fell down at the feet of Jesus, saying,
'Lord, I believe.'

And now Jesus turned to the Pharisees, and told them that they were very blind.  They could
see things with their eyes, but they could not see that their hearts were full of sin.  Then
Jesus preached one of the most beautiful of all His sermons.  In it He said, 'I am the Door
of the sheep; by Me if any man enter in he shall be saved.  It meant you and me, and it meant
all the heathen.  He has called us.  He is calling the heathen.  And many sheep, many quiet
little lambs, have heard the voice of Jesus, and are following Him. Have you heard Him calling
you?  Have you followed Him? if not, oh, make haste to go after Him now.

Soon after Jesus had gone away from Bethany, His friend Lazarus became very ill.  Martha and
Mary longed for Jesus now, and they thought, 'If Jesus were here, our brother would not die;'
and they sent a messenger to Him to say 'Lord, he whom Thou lovest is sick.'  When Jesus heard
that, He stayed on quietly where He was for two days longer.  Then He came to Bethany, and
by this time Lazarus had been in the grave for four days.  Presently somebody came to Martha,
and said to her quietly, 'Jesus is coming.'  When Martha heard that, she got up, and went out
to meet Him.  And when she saw Jesus, she said, 'Lord, if Thou hadst been here, my brother
would not have died; but I know that even now whatever Thou wilt ask of God, God will give
it Thee.'  Jesus said to her, 'Thy brother shall rise again.'  When Jesus saw how unhappy Mary
and Martha were, He too felt very sad, and said, 'Where have ye laid him?'  And they said,
'Lord, come and see.' And then----Jesus wept.  'See how He loved Lazarus,' said the Jews; and
they wondered that Jesus had let His friend die.

Now they had come to the grave.  It was a hole in the side of a rock, and there was a heavy
stone over it.  Jesus said, 'Take ye away the stone;' and they rolled it away.  Then Jesus
lifted up His eyes, and thanked God that He had heard His prayer and given Him back the life
of Lazarus.  And then He cried with a loud voice, 'Lazarus, come forth.' And the man who had
been dead came out of the cave alive.  When the Jews saw what was done, some of them believed,
but others hurried off to Jerusalem to make mischief as fast as they could.

After a time Jesus crossed the Jordan and again came into Perea, and then He came slowly down
through Perea to Jerusalem.

CHAPTER X

THE PRODIGAL SON, AND OTHER STORIES.

One day, when the mothers of Perea brought their little ones to Jesus, the disciples found
fault with them for coming, and tried to keep them away.  But when Jesus saw what the disciples
were doing He was much displeased, and said to them--

'SUFFER LITTLE CHILDREN, AND FORBID THEM NOT, TO COME UNTO ME: FOR OF SUCH IS THE KINGDOM OF
HEAVEN.'

And He took them up in His arms, put His hands upon them, and blessed them.

Jesus used to tell some very beautiful stories as He went slowly through the Holy Land.  We
have not room for all, but I must tell you two or three, and I will tell you them exactly as
Jesus first told them.

'Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and
went forth to meet the bride-groom.

'And while they went to buy, the bride-groom came; and they that were ready went in with him
to the marriage: and the door was shut.

'Afterwards came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us.

'But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. Watch therefore, for ye know
neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of Man cometh.'

CHAPTER XI.

THE LAST DAYS IN JERUSALEM.

When it was time for Him to end His work on earth, Jesus started for Jerusalem.  The people
in Jerusalem heard that He was coming, and crowds of them poured out of Jerusalem to meet Him.
They carried boughs of palm trees in their hands, and waved them, and cried, 'HOSANNA!  He
wept because they loved their sins, and hated their Saviour.  He wept because He knew that
God would have to punish them.  He knew that in a very few years the Romans would come and
fight against Jerusalem, and burn down that Temple, and kill thousands of the Jews, or carry
them away as slaves.  Were not these things enough to make the Lord Jesus weep?

The blind and the lame came to Jesus in the Temple, and He made them well; and when the little
children cried, 'HOSANNA TO THE SON OF DAVID,' He was pleased to hear their song.  But the
priests were very angry.  'Hosanna to the Son of David' means 'Save us, Jesus, our King.' The
priests could not bear to hear the children call Jesus their King, and ask Him to save them.
And Satan is very angry now when He hears a little child say, 'Save me, O Jesus, my King.'
But Jesus is pleased.

During these last days Jesus stayed quietly each night at Bethany; but the priests were very
busy thinking how they could take Him prisoner, and they were very pleased when Judas came
in secretly, and said, 'Give me money, and I will give you Jesus.'  And the priests said they
would give Judas thirty pieces of silver if he would give Jesus up to them. Thirty pieces of
silver!  Why, that was only about seventeen dollars ($17)--only as much as used to be paid
for a slave.

The next day while Jesus stayed quietly in Bethany, Peter and John were very busy, for Jesus
had sent them to Jerusalem to get ready for the Passover.  They had to take a lamb to the Temple
to be killed by the priests, and they had to find a house in which to eat the Passover supper.

Once every year the Jews used to kill a lamb, and pour out its blood before God, to show that
they remembered God's goodness to them when they were in Egypt, in letting his angel pass over
their houses.  And then they roasted the lamb, and met together in their houses to eat it,
and to thank God for all his love and kindness.

When Peter and John had got the Passover supper quite ready, Jesus came from Bethany with the
rest of His disciples, and they all sat down together at the table; and Jesus told the disciples
that He was very glad to eat this Passover with them, because it was the very last time He
would eat and drink at all before He died.

When Jesus had finished washing His disciples' feet, He put on His long coat again (it was
called an abba), and sat down.  And He told His disciples that He had given them an example,
so that they might be kind to one another, and wait upon one another.

Jesus said many beautiful words to His disciples that night at the supper; and when the supper
was finished, they went out into the Mount of Olives, to a place called Gethsemane, a garden
full of olive trees, where Jesus often went to pray.

When Jesus came to Gethsemane with His disciples, He told them to sit down and wait for Him
while He went on farther to pray.  But He took with Him Peter and James and John.  As they
walked on, Jesus began to be so very sorrowful that He wanted to be quite alone with God. 
So He told Peter and James and John to stay behind and to watch.  But they went to sleep. 
And then Jesus went a little way off, and fell down on His knees and prayed.  And now His mind
was in such pain that He suffered agony, and the sweat rolled down His face in drops of blood.
Then Jesus came to Peter and James and John, and found them fast asleep.  Twice Jesus went
away and prayed the same prayer, and twice He came back to find His disciples asleep.

And now a great crowd poured into the garden.  Judas was walking first, to show the others
the way, and he came up to Jesus and kissed Him again and again, and said, 'Master!  Master!
Peace!'  And when the people saw Judas do that, they took hold of Jesus and held Him fast.
They took Jesus first to the house of a priest called Annas, and then to the palace of Caiaphas
the high priest; and John, who knew somebody in that house, was allowed to come in.  Peter
was left outside; but soon John asked the girl at the door to let Peter in too.  Peter was
glad to come in to see what was being done to his dear Master.

