PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 156.

MARCH 12, 1919.

CHARIVARIA.

The spread of influenza is said to be greatly assisted by "germ-carriers." We can't think why
germs should be carried. Let 'em walk.

       ***

According to The Sunday Express a young American named Frisco states that he invented the Jazz.
There was also a murder confession in the Press last week.

       ***

"Whitehall," says a Society organ, "has succumbed to the Jazz, the Fox-trot and the Bunny-hug."
It still shows a decided preference, however, for the Barnacle-cling.

       ***

A man charged at the Guildhall with being drunk said he was suffering from an attack of influenza
and had taken some whisky. Yes, but where from?

       ***

We understand that the heading, "Whisky for Influenza," which appeared in a daily paper the
other day, misled a great number of sufferers, who at once wrote to say that they were prepared
to make the exchange.

       ***

It is good to know that a perfectly noiseless motor car has been produced. Even that nasty
grating sound experienced by pedestrians when being run over by a car is said to have been
eliminated.

       ***

Shrove Tuesday passed almost unheeded. Even the pancake thrown to the boys at Westminster School
in the presence of the KING and QUEEN appeared to fall flat.

       ***

We are glad to learn that the little Kensington boy who was tossed by a huge pancake on Shrove
Tuesday is stated to be going on nicely.

       ***

Five hundred and twenty-seven pounds of American bacon have been declared unfit for food by
the Marylebone magistrate. Why this invidious distinction?

       ***

"A man," says Mr. Justice KUNKEL of Pennsylvania, "has full rights in his own home against
everyone but his wife." It is surmised that his Honour never kept a cook.

       ***

We are informed that the dispute between the Ministry of Labour and the Irish Clerical Workers'
Union has been settled by the latter name being changed to the "Irish Clerical Employees' Union."

       ***

Mr. LLOYD GEORGE is said to favour the creation of a new Order for deserving Welshmen. The
revival of the Order of the Golden Fleece is suggested.

       ***

A writer in a ladies' journal refers to the present fashion of "satin-walnut hair." We have
felt for some time that mahogany had had its day.

       ***

Charged at Hove with bigamy a soldier stated that he remembered nothing about his second marriage
and pleaded that he was absent-minded. A very good plan is to tie a knot in your boot-lace
every time you get married.

       ***

A sorry blow has been dealt at those who maintain we are not a commercial race. "You gave me
prussic acid in mistake for quinine this morning," a man told a chemist the other day. "Is
that so?" said the chemist; "then you owe me another twopence."

       ***

For the benefit of those about to emigrate we have pleasure in furnishing the exclusive information
that very shortly there will be big openings in America for corkscrew-straighteners.

       ***

We are now able to state that the wedding of Princess PATRICIA and Commander RAMSAY passed
off without a hymeneal ode from the POET LAUREATE.

       ***

We understand that a lady operator who was impudent to the District Supervisor on the telephone
the other day would have been severely reprimanded but for her plea that she mistook him for
a subscriber.

       ***

It is reported that the paper shortage is soon to be remedied. In these days of expensive boots
this should be good news to people who travel to and from the City by Tube on foot.

       ***

We hear privately that one of our leading dailies has fixed April 14th as the date on which
its office "correspondent" will first hear the note of the cuckoo in Epping Forest.

       ***

Several suspicious cases of sickness are reported among the aborigines of New South Wales.
It is not yet known whether they are due to influenza or to the native custom of partaking
heavily of snakepie on the eve of Lent.

       ***

Nottingham will hold its six hundred and fifty-eighth annual Goose Fair this year, and a local
paper has made a distinct hit by stating that it is "the oldest gathering of its kind except
the House of Commons."

       ***

President EBERT, according to the Frankfort Gazette, is to have a Chief Master of Ceremonies.
One of his first duties, in which he will have the advice of prominent musicians, will be to
fix an authorised style of eating Sauerkraut which shall be impressive yet devoid of ostentation.

       *       *       *       *       *

First Taxi. "WHATEVER 'AVE YER GOT THEM TOGS ON FOR, ALBERT?"

Second ditto. "ALWAYS DRESS FOR SUPPER DOWN TOWN NOWADAYS, OLD BEAN."]

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A woman's sphere was her own home, that she should earn her own
    living was inimical to domestic happiness; it was almost contra
    bonus morus, which is a very serious thing indeed."--Scots
    Paper.

It certainly would be for Smith mi. if he said it in class.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The speaker of the evening was Dr. Charles ----, a full-blooded
    Sioux Indian, and the only full-blooded literary man among the
    North American Indians."--American Paper.

We could spare some of our full-blooded, literary men if there is a shortage in America.

       *       *       *       *       *

MONUMENTS OF THE WAR.

  Let those who fear lest Memory should mislay
    Our triumphs gathered all across the map;
  Lest other topics--like the weather, say,
    Or jazzing--should supplant the recent scrap;
  Or lest a future race whose careless lot
    Lies in a League of Nations, lapped amid
  Millennial balm, be unaware of what
    (Largely for their sakes) we endured and did;--

  Let such invite our architects to plan
    Great monumental works in steel and stone,
  Certain to catch the eye of any man
    And make our victories generally known;
  Let a new bridge at Charing Cross be built,
    In Regent Street a deathless quadrant set,
  And on them be inscribed in dazzling gilt:--
    "IN CASE BY INADVERTENCE WE FORGET."

  Or, eloquent in ruin unrestored,
    Leave the Cloth Hall to be the pilgrim's quest,
  Baring her ravaged beauty to record
    The Culture of the Bosch when at his best;
  At Albert, even where it bit the ground,
    Low let the Image lie and tell its fate,
  Poignant memento, like our own renowned
    ALBERT Memorial (close to Prince's Gate).

  For me, the tablets of my heart, I ween,
    Sufficiently recall these fateful years;
  I need no monument for keeping green
    All that I suffered in the Volunteers;
  Therefore I urge the Army Council, at
    Its earliest leisure, please--next week would do--
  To raze the hutments opposite my flat,
    That still impinge on my riparian view.

  O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

A PAIR OF MILITARY GLOVES.

It was in Italy, on my way home from Egypt to be demobilised, that I decided to buy a pair
of warm gloves from Ordnance.

After being directed by helpful other ranks to the A.S.C. Depot, the Camp Commandant's Office
and the Y.M.C.A., I found myself, at the end of a morning's strenuous walking, confronted by
notices on a closed door stating that this was the Officers' Payment Issue Department; that
this was the Officers' Entrance to the Officers' Payment Issue Department; that smoking was
strictly prohibited; and that the office would re-open at 14.00.

I went away to lunch.

At 14.01 I knocked out my pipe conscientiously and entered.

At last I heard the B.A.F. man explain that, by James, he had an appointment at three, and
would return, old bean--er, Corporal--in the morning to see about those dashed socks. The Corporal
behind the counter blew away a pile of cigarette ash and regarded me distrustfully.

"Only one pair of gloves left, Sir," he said. "Gloves, woollen, knitted, pairs one, one-and-tenpence."

"Thank you very much," I said. "They'll do nicely. I'll take them now."

But of course I didn't. At 15.00 was in another building, watching another Corporal make out
an indent in quadruplicate for gloves, woollen, knitted, officers, for the use of, pairs one.
At 15.05 I was in another building, getting the indent stamped and countersigned. At 15.12
I was in another building, exchanging it for a buff form in duplicate. At 15.20 I re-entered
the Issue Department and went through the motions of taking up the gloves.

"Excuse me, Sir," said the Corporal, skilfully sliding them away; "you must first produce your
Field Advance Book as a proof of identity."

"I'm afraid I haven't a proper Field Advance Book," I explained. "You see, in Egypt, where
I come from--that is, I was attached, you know, to the--well, in short, I haven't a proper
Field Advance Book, as I said before. But I have here an A.B. 64 issued in lieu thereof--they
do that in Egypt, you know--and I have my identity discs, my demobilisation papers, my cheque-book--oh,
and heaps of other things which would prove to you that I am really me. Besides, my name is
sewn inside the back of my tunic. And my shirt," I added hopefully.

"If you haven't a Field Advance Book, Sir," said the Corporal coldly, "your only course is
to obtain a certificate of identity from the Camp Commandant."

"But, look here, Corporal," I protested, "it would take me a quarter-of-an-hour to get to the
Commandant's office and another quarter to get back. I'm sure I couldn't get a certificate
of identity under an hour and a-half. It is now twenty-five past three. You close at four.
To-morrow morning at five ac emma I entrain for Cherbourg.... You see how impossible it all
is, Corporal."

"Sorry, Sir," said the Corporal. "I'm not allowed to issue the gloves without your Field Advance
Book or a certificate of identity."

"But what am I to do?" I asked weakly. "Think, Corporal, how cold it will be across Italy and
France without gloves. I've been in the East for over four years, and I might get pneumonia
and die, you know."

"I should try the Camp Commandant, Sir," he said. "It may not take so long as you think."

       *       *       *       *       *

At 15.41 I was outside the Camp Commandant's office with my A.B.64, identity discs, demobilisation
papers and cheque-book ready to hand, and my tunic loosened at the neck.

At 15.42 I entered the office with some diffidence.

At 15.43 I was outside again, dazed and a little frightened, with a certificate of identity
in my hand. It was the fastest piece of work I have ever known in the Army. And I might have
been Mr. GEORGE ROBEY in disguise for all they knew in the office--or cared.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Sorry, Sir," said the Corporal in the Officers' Payment Issue Department at 15.59, "the gloves
were sold to another officer while you were away."

ONE OF THE PUNCH BRIGADE.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON HALF RATIONS.

    "Two officers will be received as paying guests. Comfortable
    home. Treated as one of the family."--Daily Paper.

The italics emphasize our own feeling with regard to this niggardly arrangement.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "V.A.D.--Required for Shell-shock Hospital under B.R.C.S.,
    Piano, Billiard Table and Gramophone. Will any hospital
    closing down and having same for sale, kindly communicate
    with Secretary."--Times.

We do not know what sort of work the V.A.D. is expected to do under the piano and billiard
table, but we presume that her consent would be required, and that she would not be sold, so
to speak, over her own head.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE RHINE.

I.

"Fee-Fi-Fo-Fum, I am a bold and infamous Hun, I am, I am." For, look you, we have usurped the
place of the Royal Jocks on the "right flank of the British Army," and are on outpost duty,
with our right resting on the bank of the Rhine, while in front the notice-boards, "Limit of
Cologne Bridgehead," stare at us.

No longer are we the pleasant, easy-going, pay-through-the-nose people that we were. No longer
does our daily routine include the smile for Mademoiselle, the chipping of Madame, or the half-penny
for the little ones. No, we steel ourselves steadily to the grim task entrusted to us, and
struggle to offer a perfect picture of stolid indifference to anybody's welfare but our own.
"Fee-fi-fo-fum."

What does Thomas think of it all? Well, to tell the truth, I haven't caught him thinking very
much about it. Gloating seems foreign to his nature somehow, and I don't think he will ever
make a really good Hun. He is rather like a child who for four years has been crying incessantly
for the moon. Having got it, he says, "Well, I'm glad I've got it; now let's get on with something
else," and takes not the slightest interest in the silly old moon he has acquired with so much
trouble.

There are two things to which he cannot quite accustom himself: not being allowed to fraternize
with the inhabitants and the realisation that his laboriously acquired knowledge of the French
language is no longer of any avail. He will never quite get over the former of these two disabilities,
but he is coping courageously with the latter. For instance, in place of the "No bon" of yesterday,
"Nix goot" now explains that "Your saucepan I borrowed has a hole in it; please, I didn't do
it." For the rest, change of environment makes very little difference to him. Given a cooker,
a water-cart and the necessary rations, a British oasis will appear and be prepared to flourish
in any old desert you like.

No, I am wrong. There is another difficulty which as yet he has not been able entirely to overcome.
I cannot describe the consternation which came over the Company when I informed them that there
was no longer any need to scrounge; in fact, I forbade it. At first they thought it was just
a Company Commander's humour and paid it the usual compliments of the parade; but when they
found I was serious they were simply appalled. It was as if I had taken the very spice out
of their existence. Not to be able to go out and "win" a handful of fuel for the evening's
fug and for the brewing of those unwholesome messes in the tin canteen? Bolshevism itself could
not have propounded a more revolutionary principle. Heartbroken some of the old soldiers came
to me afterwards. "What are we to do, Sir?" they said. "We only go on guard four hours in sixteen;
we must do something the rest of the time." Sternly I bade them think of scrounging as a thing
of the past--a thing of glorious memory only to be spoken of round the fires at home. If they
wanted anything in the meantime to add to their material comfort they were to come to me for it.

For let me tell you, all you demobilised wallahs who know only those countries where the necessities
of life were matters of private enterprise--let me tell you that in this village, if I say
that I require coal, coal is here, and with it the Bürgermeister inquiring politely if my needs
are satisfied. We must have beds? The spare beds of the village are forthcoming. If we want
baths for the men, our Mr. Carfax, who speaks a language which the inhabitants pretend to understand,
goes round to the householders and explains the necessity. Should there be any difficulty he
explains further that it would be much better, don't they think, and much more convenient if
the men visited the houses, rather than that baths should be carried to some central place?
It is invariably found to be preferable for all concerned.

Bathing has now become a pleasure to all, except, perhaps, to Nijinsky, our Pole from Commercial
Road, East. On being presented (for the first time, I gather) to a first-class bathroom with
geyser complete, he evinced signs of great uneasiness. In fact he seemed to think that this
was making a parade of a purely private matter. The Sergeant-Major, being called in, exhorted
him to "get in and give the thing a trial," at which Nijinsky flung up his hands in characteristic
fashion and said, "Vell, it's somethink fur nothink, anyhow," and they left him to it. The
rest of the story is concerned with his turning off the water in the geyser and leaving the
gas on, of a loud explosion and the figure of Nijinsky, fat and frightened, fleeing through
the main street dressed in an Army towel. Subsequently I heard him expressing forcibly a fixed
determination never, never to be persuaded against his will again.

Oh, yes, it is a wonderful thing to be a Hun. Every day we go about telling one another what
Huns we are and how we love our hunnishness. And yet, you know, as a matter of fact, I don't
believe all our efforts amount to anything really; they wouldn't deceive a child--and in fact
they don't. For ever since we came here one can't help noticing that the little tiny natives
have acquired an extraordinarily good imitation of Tommy's salute, and, though Subalterns and
Sergeant-Majors may go about gnashing their teeth and wearing expressions of frightful ferocity,
still the youngsters grin fearlessly as they raise their tiny fingers. They know it isn't real.
They know a Hun when they see him all right; what child doesn't?

And I caught our Mr. Carfax picking one of them up from the gutter the other day and soothing
its tears with the baby-talk of all nations. I told him he was fraternising abominably and
was not being a true Hun.

"Well," he said, "you can't leave a child yelling in a puddle, can you?"

And, damn it, you can't, so what's the use of trying to be hunnish?

L.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

RAPID PROMOTION.

From a Parliamentary report:--

    "Colonel Seely mentioned ... Major-General Seely said ... General
    Seely, replying ..."--Daily Chronicle.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The canonical proceedings for the beatification of Pope Pius IX.
    and Christopher Columbus have been definitely abandoned. As the
    result of a very close investigation, it was decided that these
    two candidates lacked certain necessary qualifications; Pius IX.
    had signed death sentences and Christopher Columbus was held
    responsible for massacres."--Sunday Paper.

This news, we understand, has caused a painful impression at Amerongen.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GREAT COLD-CURE DEBATE.

In view of the prevalence of colds and the varying counsels given to their patients by our
leading so-called healers, a mass meeting of doctors and public men was recently convened,
with the hope that some useful results might follow.

None did.

The Chairman in his opening remarks said that colds were at once the commonest complaints to
which human beings were subject and the least understood by the faculty. It was scandalous
that so little serious attention should be paid to them by physicians. A scientific investigator
should be as proud of discovering a preventive for colds as a scheme of wireless telegraphy.
But it was not so. Researchers were applauded for compounding new and more deadly explosives
and poisonous gas, while the whole mystery of colds remained unplumbed. The situation was scandalous.
(Loud sneezes.)

Letters were read, among others, from Lord NORTHCLIFFE, Mr. SNOWDEN and Sir JOHN SIMON, all
saying that from recent experience they could affirm that an equable cold temperature was conducive
to the avoidance of catarrh. In short, an excellent means of escaping cold was to be out in
the cold.

A representative of the Board of Trade said that all that was necessary to avoid colds was
to keep fit and not approach infection. Having offered this very practical advice the speaker
gathered up his papers and left the room.

Sir Septicus Jermyn, the famous physician, urged that the best preventive for colds was to
keep warm. One should wear plenty of thick clothing and especially cover the neck and throat.
A respirator was an excellent thing. He even went so far as to recommend earflaps to his patients,
with beneficial results. A night-cap was also a great help.

Sir Eufus Hardy, the famous physician, protested that colds were for the most part negligible.
People took them much too seriously. The best treatment was to be Spartan--wear the lightest
clothes, abjure mufflers, and, whenever you could find a draught, sit in it.

Mr. BERNARD SHAW said that all this cold-catching was nonsense. He personally had never had
a cold in his life. And why? Because he lived healthily; he wore natural wool, retained his
beard, ate no meat and drank no wine. Lunatics who wore fancy tweeds, shaved, devoured their
fellow-creatures and imbibed poisonous acids were bound to catch cold. Resuming his Jaeger
halo, Mr. SHAW then left.

Sir Bluffon Gay, the famous physician, stated that in his experience colds were necessary evils
which often served useful ends in clearing the system. For that reason he was against any treatment
that served to stop them. The "instantaneous cold cures" which were advertised so freely filled
him with suspicion. Colds should be unfettered.

Mr. Le Hay Fevre, K.C., representing the Ancient Order of Haberdashers, said that he was in
entire agreement with the last speaker. Colds should be allowed to take their course. Nothing
was so bad as to check them.

Sir Romeo Path, the famous physician, asserted that colds were far more serious things than
people thought. As a matter of fact there was no such thing as a cold pure and simple; colds
were invariably manifestations of other and deeper trouble. His own specific was a long period
of complete rest and careful but not meagre dieting, followed by change of air, if necessary
travel to the South of France. (Loud coughs and cheers.)

Mr. Bolus, K.C., representing the Chemists and Druggists' Union, said that it was felt very
strongly that the seriousness of colds should not be minimised, but that foreign travel was
an error. No malady was so much helped by the timely and constant employment of remedies at
home. He trusted that the remarks of the last speaker would speedily be contradicted by a competent
authority.

Sir Consul Tait, the famous physician, held that alcohol was the greatest provocative of colds;
aspirin was their greatest enemy.

Sir Tablloyd George, the famous physician, observed that a glass of hot whisky and lemon-juice
on going to bed was a sovran remedy. Aspirin was to be avoided, but quinine had its uses.

Mr. ARNOLD BENNETT said that probably no one knew more about the way that other people should
behave than he did. He had written twelve manuals on the subject and intended to write twenty-six
more, by which time he would have covered the whole field of human endeavour. Any one who had
read his book, The Plain Man and his Wife and their Plainer Children, would remember that one
chapter was devoted to the cause, evasion and cure of colds. He would not at the moment say
more than that the work was procurable at all bookshops. He should like to address the meeting
at fuller length, but as he was suffering from a very stubborn cold he must hurry back to bed.

Mr. H.G. WELLS remarked that he always found that the best corrective for a cold was to write
another novel of modern domestic life. He had even heard of the perusal of some of his novels
as a substitute for coal.

Mr. BONAR LAW said that there was no prophylactic against colds so efficacious as fresh air
and plenty of it. Since he had formed the habit of flying backwards and forwards from Paris
he had been free from any trouble of that kind. He recommended a seat at the Peace Conference
and constant aviation to all sufferers.

Sir Blandon Swaive, the famous physician, contended that there was no sense in the fresh-air
theory. Rooms should be hermetically sealed.

Mr. SMILLIE said that he had given the matter the closest attention, and he had come to the
conclusion that there was no preventive of a cold in the head so complete and drastic as decapitation.

The meeting was considering Mr. SMILLIE'S suggestion when our reporter, who had contracted
a chill during Mr. BERNARD SHAW'S remarks, took his departure.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

JOURNALISTIC ENTERPRISE.

    "NEWS BY TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE.

    "To-day is Pancake Day."--Daily Mail, March 4.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "HIGH-CLASS FISH DURING THE LENTEN SEASON.

    "All kinds arrive daily direct from the coast, and prices the
    maximum when possible."--Advt. in Provincial Paper.

To judge by our own fishmonger, they always are possible.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the report of a prosecution for selling eggs above the controlled price:

    "Mr. ----, for the defence, contended that the lay mind could
    assume that new-laid eggs laid by the vendor's fowls were not
    within the scope of the Order."--Birmingham Daily Post.

In a poultry case the opinion of the "lay mind" should have been conclusive, but the Bench
decided otherwise.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "When is the State going to help mothers with large families? If
    the cost of living has increased 100 per cent., then for eight
    persons the increase is 800 per cent.

    "How many mothers with eight in family have received an increase of
    800 per cent. in their income since 1914?--W.W., London."--Daily
    Sketch.

"W.W., London," should not be allowed to squander his gifts on the daily Press. We want a statistician
like this to tot up the German indemnity.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WATCH DOGS.

LXXX.

My Dear Charles,--You are a lawyer and you ought to know. Yet to myself, when I compare my
profits with those of the Government in this deal, I seem a model of innocence.

Let me refresh your memory of the facts.

In the Spring of 1918 I was dispensing passports to deserving cases in the name of His Majesty's
Government. In the neutral country where I was doing this there was a very wicked and a very
plausible man, whom we will call Mr. Abrahams (he has had so many surnames at one time and
another that a new one cannot do him any harm). Rate of exchange stood at the figure of twenty
local francs to the pound sterling, and, as you would put it, other things were equal.

Mr. Abrahams was obsessed with a desire to see England, entirely for its own sake. England,
also thinking entirely of itself, was obsessed with a desire not to see Mr. Abrahams. Mr. Abrahams
came to my office, said nice things about me to my face and begged me to let him go. I said
nice things to him, and told him I would if I could, but I couldn't. He took this to mean I
could if I would, but I wouldn't. He offered me cash down; a cheque for five pounds sterling,
or a note for a hundred francs; I could have it which way I liked. We should call it for appearance'
sake a gift to His Majesty's Government for the better prosecution of the War.

I thanked him cordially on behalf of His Majesty's Government, but regretted that I was the
victim of circumstances over which I had no control. Refusing to believe there could be any
circumstances which could stand up against an officer of my power, position and force, he produced
a note for a hundred francs and put it on my table. He then withdrew, meaning (I gathered)
to return to the attack as soon as the money had sunk in. From this point on, Mr. Abrahams
disappears from the story. It is not the first or only story, as the police will tell you,
from which Mr. Abrahams has disappeared.

My report to His Majesty's Government did not omit a full mention of the matter of the five
pounds or hundred francs offered. It begged for instructions as to the disposal of the booty
which, it stated, lay in my "Suspense" basket. No instructions could be got, though frequent
messages, saying, "May we now have an answer, please?" were sent. Weeks passed, and every morning
I was tempted by the sight of that note for a hundred francs lying in the basket. My moral
gradually declined. So did the rate of exchange. So did the barometer.

There came a day, the weather being such that any man who could sin would sin, when I had in
my pocket a cheque made out for five pounds which I was about to cash for lack of ready francs,
and when the rate of exchange had got as low as nineteen francs to the pound, which would mean
(I rely entirely on the evidence of the bank man) ninety-five francs for my five pounds. Charles,
I fell. Explaining to myself that Mr. Abrahams had clearly intimated that his gift to the Government
was alternatively a cheque for five pounds or a note for a hundred francs, I put my cheque
into the "Suspense" basket and pocketed the note, thus making five francs profit.

More weeks passed; no instructions came, and every day I was tempted by the sight of that cheque.
One bright summer morning, when any man who had any goodness in him could not help being good,
and when the rate of exchange had risen to twenty-one, I came to my office full of noble intentions
and hundred franc notes of my own. I may mention in passing that it takes very little money
to fill me up. I had just cashed a cheque of my own at the rate of a hundred-and-five francs
to the five pounds, and I felt robust and self-confident and ready to do it again. There, on
the top of my "Suspense" basket, lay just the very cheque for the purpose.

That, my Lord, is the case for the prosecution; but you may as well have the rest of the story.
Instructions or no instructions, I thought it was now time to send the note for a hundred francs
to the Government. The Government said it had no use for francs in England, sent back the note
to me and told me to buy, locally, an English cheque, which I was to hold, pending further
instructions. It took some time to arrive at this point, and meanwhile rate of exchange had
had a serious relapse. The hundred franc note bought a cheque for five guineas. Not feeling
strong enough to pend further instructions, I at once sent this home. More haste, less speed:
I forgot to endorse it. After another period the cheque came back, with a memo. The memo said:
(1) His Majesty's Government had no love or use for unendorsed cheques drawn in favour of other
people. (2) His Majesty's Government requested me to endorse the cheque, cash it locally and
put the proceeds to the credit side of my expenses account. (3) His Majesty's Government trusted
that Mr. Abrahams would not cause this sort of trouble again.

Whether it was the stimulus given by this memo, or whether it was merely a case of giving up
the drink and becoming a reformed character, rate of exchange had, I found when I went to carry
out orders, risen to and stuck at the dizzy height of twenty-three francs and twenty centimes
to the pound. His Majesty's Government has drawn in the long run (the very long run) the sum
of one hundred and twenty-one francs and eighty centimes, thus making more than twice as heavy
a profit as I had. And yet you have the impudence to tell me that I am guilty of embezzlement,
with corruption.

I can only say I should be ashamed to be a lawyer.

I can only add that I should be happy to be His Majesty's Government.

With all best wishes and enclosing stamps for eighty centimes as representing your share of
the proceeds (including fee for opinion),

I remain,

Yours sincerely, HENRY.

       *       *       *       *       *

PIVOTS.

  "Bermondsey Bill," who used to be
  The idol of the N.S.C.,
  Began to fight in 17--
  P.T. instructor, very keen,
  Teaching recruits to jab the faces
  Of dummy Germans at the bases.
  But Bill, I see, is booked to box
  Tomkins, the Terror of the Docks,
  And nobody should feel surprised
  That Bill has been demobilised.

  Although the War upset, I fear,
  John Jones's pacifist career,
  He did not murmur or repine,
  But hurried to the nearest mine,
  And stuck it till the "refugees"
  Were all transplanted overseas.
  In France he saw some dreadful scenes
  As salesman in E.F. canteens;
  But when the Bosch had been chastised
  He was at once demobilised.

  A most diverting person, Brown--
  The "star" comedian in Town,
  And, since he donned a posh Sam B.,
  O.C. Amusements, L. of C.
  He steadfastly refused to whine
  Because he never saw the Line,
  But carried on, stout fellow, and
  Is now at home, I understand.
  A pivot so well-paid and prized
  Just had to be demobilised.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OCCUPIED OPERA.

It was a chilly morning early in January. The Opera at Cologne had just become recognised as
the principal attraction of the place, and as yet there was no suave interpreter in attendance
to mediate between the queue of representatives of Britain's military power and the German
clerk in the box-office.

I suppose that in some handsome suite of apartments in one of the best hotels in Cologne an
exalted personage with red trimmings spends his whole time--office hours, of course--in devising
fresh schemes for the sale and distribution of opera tickets to the British troops. The demand
for them is always far in excess of the number reserved for the military, and fresh schemes
for their distribution are inaugurated every week.

We were still in the days when officers and men of every rank and every branch of the Army
of Occupation used to wait in a democratic queue for the box-office to open at 10 A.M. It was
9.15 when I took up my position, beaten a short neck by a very young and haughty officer, a
Second-Lieutenant of the Blankshires. There is always a cold wind round that corner of the
Rudolfplatz, but every officer and every O.R. turned up his coat-collar, stamped his feet and
determined to stick it. After all, from the time when he waits his turn to receive his first
suit of khaki, every soldier is inured to standing in queues, and when he has so often stood
half-an-hour in a queue for the chance of a penny bowl of Y.M.C.A. tea he will think nothing
of standing for an hour for a seat at the Opera. For the officers no doubt the situation had
the attraction of novelty.

By the time the office opened the queue reached from the Opera House steps nearly to the tramway
Haltestelle, and much speculation was going on as to how many would be sent empty away. Inch
by inch we moved forward, mounted the steps one by one, and came within the relative warmth
of the vestibule. At last the weary waiting-time was over; the young subaltern stepped before
the guichet and, pointing to a handbill, demanded in a loud and dignified voice a ticket for
next Monday's performance of "KEINE VORSTELLUNG!"

How shall I describe the painful scene that followed--a scene in which, as a mere Tommy, I
had too much discipline to intervene? In vain the obsequious purveyor of tickets offered a
selection of the world's most popular and celebrated operas for any other day but Monday. Nothing
would do for my officer but Keine Vorstellung. Indeed, as he explained in his best and loudest
English, Monday was his only free evening. Keine Vorstellung he wanted and Keine Vorstellung
he must have. Followed reiteration, expostulation, vituperation in yet louder English than
before, and when at last he turned away without his ticket he was still convinced that the
authority of the Britische Besatzung had been outraged and defied by the man behind the window.

I often wonder what he said when the precise meaning of those two mystic words was revealed,
to him. I like to think that it may have happened at the Requisition Office, whither he had
gone to procure an order to compel that recalcitrant square-head to supply him with the ticket
so unwarrantably withheld.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Wanted a good Cook; kitchen-maid kept; small fairy."--Provincial
    Paper.

It is pleasant to come upon a really appreciative mistress.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PTERO-DACTYLS.

(OF THE PIONEERS OF THE AIR.)

  Dædalus, once in the island of Crete,
    Finding his host tried to limit his scenery,
  Foiled in his efforts to flee on his feet,
    Went and invented some flying machinery;
  Then, when he thought it was time to make tracks
    Free from pursuit, for he felt he could dodge any,
  Brought out his wings, which he fastened with wax,
    Fitting another pair on to his progeny;
  So, if the legend to credence can wheedle us,
  First of air-pilots was old Father Dædalus.

  Just a few kicks and they're off in full sail
    (Science of old wasn't hard on her votary,
  So little mention you find in the tale
    Made of propeller or joy-stick or rotary);
  Silently skimming along in the air
    Spoke the paternal and prototype pioneer,
  "Mind that your altitude's low, and beware
    Fiery Phoebus you don't go and fly a-near!"
  Cautious the counsel, but Icarus flouted it,
  Flew in the face of his father and scouted it.

  Lifting his nose in the eye of the sun,
    Waved he his hand to his wary progenitor;
  Higher and higher he banked and he spun,
    Mounting aloft as away from his ken he tore.
  "Who's this," said Phoebus, "my kingdom affronts?
    Doubtless, young fellow, your conduct you think witty;
  I'll find a method of stopping your stunts;
    Dear shall you pay for precocious propinquity."
  Forth shot his beams ere the flier detected 'em,
  Melting the wax on his wings (that connected 'em).

  Down to the depths of the bottomless sea
    Icarus crashed with a lightning celerity,
  Leaving a name for the ages to be.
    "Ha!" chortled Phoebus, "that comes of temerity."
  See from the sequel the fitness of things:
    Nearly forgotten this early adventure is;
  Phoebus is beaten; Time's whirligig brings
    Still its revenge in the course of the centuries.
  Over the sky, from the east to the west of it,
  Man has decidedly now got the best of it.

  R.A.F.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO PSYCHICAL MEDIUMS.

Extract from a tradesman's circular:--

    "Mr. ----, who has just been disembodied, hopes to call quite
    shortly and will, we trust, be allowed to book forward your
    Spring term requirements."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A letter sent by a Government Department to the Hornsey Borough
    Council was so long that it was not read at all."--Daily Paper.

But if you think that will discourage them you don't know our bureaucrats.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, March 3rd.--The terrors of the Statute of Anne having been temporarily removed, Mr.
AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN headed a little queue of Ministers coming up to take the Oath. How the already
crowded Treasury Bench is to accommodate the new-comers it is difficult to see, but presumably
a system of reliefs will be arranged.

The present epidemic was discussed by Captain NEWMAN and Sir JOHN REES who were not agreed
as to whether port is a "preventative" or a "preventive" of influenza, but were unanimous in
thinking that far too little of it was available.

On bearing that the liability of agricultural shows to the Entertainment Tax depended on whether
instruction was combined with amusement, Colonel WEIGALL pertinently asked who was to decide
where amusement ends and education begins. Talking of education, I shall in future, following
Mr. H.A.L. FISHER, try to pronounce Thibetan with a long "e," but, I hesitate, even on the
authority of the MINISTER OF EDUCATION, to speak of "Febuary."

Since Mr. CHURCHILL became War Minister he has developed a remarkable likeness to Lord HALDANE.
Happily the resemblance extends only to the rondeurs, and not to the occasional longueurs,
of his predecessor. How long his Lordship would have taken to elucidate the present position
and future composition of the British Army I cannot estimate, but it would have been several
hours. Mr. CHURCHILL'S survey of the World, from Siberia to the Rhine, occupied a brief sixty
minutes and included some attractive speculations on the kind of Army we should need in the
future. He hopes, among other things, for an improved General Staff, composed of officers acquainted
with war in all its phases--land, sea and air--who could give the Cabinet expert advice on
war as a whole, and save it (we inferred) from such hesitations as led to the glorious tragedy
of Gallipoli.

"I thought we had given up war," interjected Mr. HOGGE; and other Members twitted the Minister
with having left out of his account the League of Nations. But Mr. CHURCHILL, in reply, while
expressing the utmost respect for the League, pointed out that it was not yet in being, and
that meanwhile Britain must continue to be a strong armed Power.

A number of maiden speeches were delivered during the evening. The SPEAKER was not in the Chair,
but I hope he was somewhere in the precincts to hear the cheers which greeted the initial effort--commendably
brief and to the point--of his son, Major LOWTHER, on the subject of courts-martial.

Tuesday, March 4th.--Lord SINHA OF RAIPUR delivered his maiden speech in a style which promises
well for his Parliamentary career. Accepting the dictum of Lord SYDENHAM that frankness is
essential in Indian affairs, he proceeded to act upon it by administering a dignified rebuke
to his lordship for having suggested that one of the periodical affrays between Mahomedans
and Hindoos was occasioned by the MONTAGU-CHELMSFORD report.

No fewer than forty-six questions were addressed to the War Office. But obviously this sort
of thing cannot go on. The SECRETARY OF STATE cannot devote so much of his valuable time to
satisfying Parliamentary curiosity. Accordingly he has appointed a "Members' friend" to hear
complaints and answer questions. Mr. McCALLUM SCOTT has been rewarded for his consistent admiration--did
he not publish a eulogy of "Winston Churchill in Peace and War" when his hero's fortunes were
temporarily clouded?--and on two days a week will have the privilege of acting as lightning-conductor.

The most intriguing detail in the story of DE VALERA'S escape from Lincoln Gaol was the beguilement
of the guards by two sweet girl-graduates from Dublin. But this afternoon Mr. SHORTT curtly
stated--with a twinkle in his eye--that the sentries disclaimed all knowledge of the ladies.
Still, is this conclusive?

Wednesday, March 5th.--The friends of the new LORD CHANCELLOR were becoming anxious lest his
natural gaiety should be permanently suppressed by the necessity of keeping up the dignity
of the Woolsack. They need be under no further apprehensions. A motion in favour of Home Rule
All Round, introduced by Lord BRASSEY and supported by Lord SELBORNE, furnished him with his
chance. Metaphorically flinging his full-bottomed wig on to the floor he skipped into the arena,
executed a war-dance around his amazed victims, and, before they knew where they were, got
their heads into Chancery and knocked them together until they were compelled to give in. Talk
of the congestion of Parliament! Why, now that party spirit was in abeyance, Bills went through
with incredible rapidity. As for the supposed ambitions of the "little nations," what, he asked,
did Scotsmen and Welshmen care about subordinate Parliaments when they were governing the whole
Empire? If the advocates of the proposal really believed in it let them go out as missionaries
into the wilderness, and, if they escaped the proverbial fate of missionaries, convert the
heathen voters to their creed. Thereupon Lord BRASSEY, his brow bloody but unbowed, intimated
that "a time would come," and meanwhile withdrew his motion.

At Question-time Mr. BONAR LAW indignantly denied a newspaper rumour from Paris that the British
delegates had decided not to demand any money-indemnity from Germany, but took occasion later
on to discount somewhat freely the election-promises made on this subject by himself and other
Ministers. It would be better, he implied, to accept a composition than to put the debtor into
the Bankruptcy Court. This is common sense, no doubt, always provided that the Hun does not
misinterpret his reprieve, and, instead of laying golden eggs for our benefit, resume the practice
of the goose-step. If every man would ask himself, "What can I do for the State?" instead of
"What can I get out of it?" we might yet emerge safely from our financial straits.

History does not always repeat itself. The first JOSIAH WEDGWOOD enhanced his fame by a faithful
reproduction of the Portland Vase. JOSIAH the Second, essaying a fancy portrait of the present
Duke of PORTLAND (in his capacity of a coal-owner), was less fortunate in the likeness, and
this afternoon handsomely withdrew it from circulation.

The Second Reading of the new Military Service Bill brought a storm of accusations against
the Government for having broken its election-pledges. Had not the PRIME MINISTER and his colleagues
gone to the country on a cry of "No Conscription"? The Member for Derby was particularly emphatic
in his denunciation; but Mr. CHURCHILL effectively countered him by quoting Mr. THOMAS'S own
translation of the pledges in question as meaning "Militarism and Conscription."

A little rift within the Coalition lute was revealed when Mr. SHAW remarked that some people
seemed to want "to make this country a fit place for casuists to live in;" but the House as
a whole took the view that without an assured peace it would be no place for any one, and passed
the Second Reading by an overwhelming majority.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SENTINELS.

  Up and down the nurs'ry stair
    All through the night
  There are Fairy Sentinels
    Watching till it's light;
  If they ever went to sleep
    The Big Clock would tell;
  But, Left-Right! Left-Right!
    They know their duty well;
  I needn't mind a Bogey or a Giant or a Bear,
  The Sentinels are watching on the nurs'ry stair!

  Up and down the nurs'ry stair
    All through the day
  There the Fairy Sentinels
    Sleep the time away;
  If you were to wake them up,
    Think how tired they'd be,
  So Tip-toe! Tip-toe!
    Go upstairs quietly.
  Yes, that's the very reason we have carpets on the stair--
  The Sentinels are sleeping, and we must take care.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SPACE PROBLEM.

  The sad queues shiver in the drains
    And do not get upon the bus;
  Men battle round successive trains,
    And each is yet more populous;
  Twelve times a week I pay the fare,
    But know not when I last sat down;
  It almost looks as if there were
    Too many people in the town.

  I know not where they all may dwell;
    I know my lease is up in May;
  I know I said, "Oh, very well,
    I'll take a house down Dorking way;"
  I scoured the spacious countryside,
    I found no residence to spare,
  And it is not to be denied
    There are too many people there.

  They say the birth-rate's sadly low;
    They say the death-rate tends to soar;
  So how we manage I don't know
    To go on growing more and more;
  Let statistology prefer
    To think the race is nice and small,
  But how do all these crowds occur,
    And who the dickens are they all?

  Where do they come from? Where on earth
    In olden days did they reside,
  When there was really lots of birth
    And hardly anybody died?
  Where had this multitude its lair?
    Some pleasant spot, I make no doubt;
  I only wish they'd go back there
    And leave me room to move about;

  And leave some little house for me
    In any shire, in any town,
  Or, otherwise, myself must flee
    And build a dug-out in a down;
  If none may settle on the land,
    Yet might one settle underground
  (Provided people understand
    They must not come and dig all round).

  There will I dwell (alone) till death
    And soothe my crowd-corroded soul;
  And, when I breathe my latest breath,
    Let no man move me from my hole;
  Let but a little earth be cast,
    And someone write above the tomb:
  "Here had the poet peace at last;
    Here only had he elbow-room."

  A.P.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SWEET-SHOP.

It was a mean street somewhere in the wilderness of Fulham. How I got there I don't exactly
know; all that I am clear about is that I was trying, on insufficient data, to make a short
cut. Twilight was falling, there was a slight drizzle of rain and I told myself that I had
stumbled on the drabbest bit of all London.

Here and there, breaking the monotony of dark house-fronts, were little isolated shops, which
gave a touch of colour to the drabness. I paused before one of them, through whose small and
dim window a light shed a melancholy beam upon the pavement. Nothing seemed to be sold there,
for the window was occupied by empty glass jars, bearing such labels as "peppermint rock,"
"pear drops" and "bull's-eyes." Apparently the shop had sold out.

I was on the point of turning away when I noticed that someone was moving about inside, and
presently an ancient dame began to take certain jars from the window and fill them with sweets
from boxes on the counter. Evidently a new stock had just arrived. Then I remembered that sweets
had been "freed."

A little girl stopped beside me, stared through the window and then ran off at top speed. Within
a couple of minutes half-a-dozen youngsters were peering into the shop, and a pair of them
marched in, consulting earnestly as they went. The news spread; more children arrived. I distributed
a largesse of pennies which gave me a popularity I have never achieved before. The street seemed
to take on a different aspect. I almost liked it.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN OLD DOG.

There can be no doubt about it. Not merely is Soo-ti getting to be an old dog, but he has already
got there. He is an old dog. Yet the change in the case of this beloved little Pekinese has
been so gradual that until it was accomplished few of us noticed it. Yesterday, as it seemed,
Soo-ti was a young dog, capable of holding his own for frolics and spirits with any Pekinese
that ever owned the crown of the road and refused to stir from it though all the hooters of
Europe endeavoured to blast him off it. To-day he is still a challenger of motor-cars; but
he hurls his defiance with less assurance and has been seen to retire before the advance of
a motor-bicycle.

Moreover, there are other signs of what his master calls, let us hope with accuracy, a cruda
viridisque senectus. Quite a short time ago his muzzle, like the rest of him, was as black
as ebony. Now he wears a pair of thick white moustachios, which are comparable only with those
worn by that great chieftain, Monsieur le Maréchal JOFFRE.

In another way too our little dog gives proof that his years are advancing. He used to welcome
ecstatically the moment of the promenade; not that he intended thus to show any deference to
the humans who were inviting him to take a walk, but that he thought it was a fine manly thing
to do, and one that might bring about that fight of his against a neighbouring and detested
deer-hound to which he looked forward as to one of his unachieved pleasures. He therefore fell
not more than one hundred yards behind his accompanists, and when this was pointed out to him
made a very creditable effort to hurry up and rejoin. Now, however, when taken for a duty-walk,
he still barks a little at the outset, but thereafter begins at once to lag, and is found in
an armchair when the party returns. It is vain to remind him that in the old days he was called
the little black feather for the lightness of his gait when puffed along by the gusts of a
fierce nor'-easter. Here is one of the complimentary stanzas that were lavished upon him by
his young mistress:--

    "Attend to your duty,
    My brave little Soo-ti,
  There isn't much sun in the sky:
    But we've sported together
    In all kinds of weather,
  My little black feather and I."

It would be quite useless to lure him out with verse, and plain prose is equally ineffective
when once he has made up his mind that he doesn't mean to move.

One more sign of old age there is, which I may briefly describe. He is always much agitated
when his mistress packs her boxes to depart to an institution for higher education of which
she is a member. While this is going forward, Soo-ti will not stir from her room except it
be to couch in the passage outside. Thence he re-transfers himself to her room, and has been
known, when the chief box is full of garments, to leap into it, to pad round in a circle three
times, and to sink down with a sigh of satisfaction on what was once a very artistic bit of
packing. I do not say that this trick is entirely due to old age. Nearly all dogs do it. Only
there was on the last occasion a special anxiety, and a more than usual persistence and querulousness
which seemed to say, "Don't go too far away, and come back soon, so that we may meet again
before my eyes grow dim and my ears lose their keenness."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In future all unmarried men and women having an income of $1,000
    will be taxed by the city. Married men will not be taxed unless
    their income is over $1,500,000."--Canadian Gazette.

The poor fellows must have some compensation.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TEST OF FRIENDSHIP.

    ["C.K.S.," in The Sphere, describing his numerous visits to
    GEORGE MEREDITH at Box Hill, tells us that in no real sense can
    he claim to have been an intimate friend; "but then," he adds, "I
    always make the test of intimate friendship when people call one
    another by their Christian names."]

  The use of Christian names, says "C.K.S."
    Is intimacy's truest test; but "George,"
  When he was down at Dorking, (as you guess)
    Stuck quite inextricably in his gorge;
  And to the end he never got beyond
  The Mister, though a faithful friend and fond.

  How sad to think this barrier was never
    Demolished, broken down and swept away,
  But still remained to sunder and to sever
    Two of the choicest spirits of our day!
  For MEREDITH, though radiant, genial, kind,
  On this one point showed an inclement mind.

  The case was simplified in days of eld;
    HOMER, for instance, had no Christian name,
  And an Athenian bookman, if impelled
    To visit him at Chios, when he came
  Across the blind old poet and beach-comber,
  Addressed him probably tout court as HOMER.

  PYTHAGORAS was never Jack or Jim--
    Names all unknown in ages pre-Socratic;
  And SHORTER could not have accosted him
    By sobriquets endearing or ecstatic;
  It would have certainly provoked a scene,
  For instance, to have hailed him as "Old bean."

  Then at the "Mermaid," had he been invited
    As an illustrious brother of the quill,
  Would "C.K.S.," I wonder, have delighted
    To honour WILLIAM SHAKSPEARE as "Old Bill,"
  And in the small uproarious hours A.M.
  Have been in turn acclaimed as "Bully CLEM"?

  Perchance; who knows? The mystery is sealed;
    Hypothesis, though plausible, is vain;
  What might have been can never be revealed,
    But one momentous fact at least is plain:
  We know from an authoritative quarter
  That MEREDITH was never "George" to SHORTER.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TWOPENNY EGG.

The daily press informs us that we are "in sight of the twopenny egg." On making inquiries
we learn that this phenomenon will be invisible at Greenwich, but may be viewed from the North
of Scotland, a region happily less inaccessible than many to which scientific expeditions have
in the past been made. At the time of writing opinions differ as to the best point for observation,
but it is probable that the island of Foula, in the Shetland group, will be chosen.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Masters and men are visibly strained by the crisis. They all
    know that they are sitting on a volcano. The prelude is all
    icy suspicion."--Mr. JAMES DOUGLAS in "The Star".

It won't be the volcano's fault if the ice doesn't get melted.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The complainant was ascending the staircase of the club when he
    met the defendant, who, speaking of Lemberg, said Lemberg belonged
    to Russia. Complainant replied: 'No, it is in Poland; it cannot
    belong to Russia,' when the defendant struck him with some sharp
    instrument on the top of the head, and the stars had not yet
    completely healed."--Evening Paper.

The constellation referred to must, we think, have been the Great Bear.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GAME OF THE TELEPHONE.

True sportsmen will regret Mr. ILLINGWORTH'S statement, made recently in the House, when he
said, "I have every expectation that the [telephone] service will improve."

By "improve" he no doubt meant that when we ring up a number in future we shall simply get
it; that people who want us will be able to get us, and so on. It is a dismal prospect.

I only hope the improvement will be delayed until I get my own back. I have been playing rather
a bad line lately, and only this morning lost a set by one game to two.

       *       *       *       *       *

The operator won the first game before I could get into my stride. She rang me up three times
in five minutes, and each time put me on to nobody. This was a very bad start, and I determined
that I must at least give her a game. So the third time I held on, mechanically knocking the
semi-circular ring arrangement up and down. There is always a chance that your signal may be
working, and it annoys the operator. But she beat me by a swift stroke.

"What number do you want?" she asked cynically. I said, "Well played, Sir--Madam!" Then she
rubbed it in with a parting shot: "Sorry you have been terroubled," she said, and cut me off.
Love--one.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Hullo!" I said, when my bell rang the next time.

"Put me through to Extension 8, please."

The only thing to do with this sort of shot is to return it safely.

"Sorry, old chap," I said, "I haven't got one."

"Haven't what?" he said.

"Got one."

"One what?"

"Extension."

Then he became annoyed and shouted, "Aren't you the War Office?"

"No," I answered, "I am not the War Office."

"Aren't you the War Off--"

But I clapped on my receiver. In fact I clapped it on so violently that I thought I had silenced
the thing for good and all.

A series of tugging ineffective clicks on the part of my bell decided me to investigate. This
move on my part was to win me the game.

I took off my receiver and listened. No answer. I banged the rigging. No answer. I banged and
thumped.

"Yes, yes," she said rather peevishly, "I am attending to you as quickly as I can. What number
do you want?"

"Well," I explained, "as a matter of fact I don't want a number. I only wondered if my line
was all right. Sorry you have been terroubled," and I cut her off. One--all.

       *       *       *       *       *

The third and last game started briskly. In the course of the first ten minutes I was rung
up and asked if I was--

1. The Timber Control.

2. Mr. Awl or All.

3. The Timber Control (again).

4. The London Diocesan Church Schools. (At this point I rather lost my head and answered, "D----
the London Diocesan Church Schools.")

My impiety offended the Bishop (I assume it was a Bishop), and he, rather unfairly, must have
incited the gods to take sides against me. In a lucid interval, while I was doing a call of
my own, the operator, without giving me any warning, switched me on to the supervisor. This
must have been an inspiration from Olympus. However I was equal to the emergency; nay, took
advantage of it. Experience has taught me that it is always best to talk to the person you
get, whether you want that person or not. So I explained to the supervisor that I was a busy
man, although the rumour which ascribed to my shoulders the War Office, the Timber Control
and the L.D.C.S. was, at the moment, unfounded.

She played up magnificently; took my number, my name, my address, the date, the time of the
day, how many times I had been rung up, whom by and when, and was going to ask me the date
of my birth and whether I was married or single, when I protested. Then she calmed down and
said she would have my line seen to.

The game seemed to be going well; but again I was beaten by a swift stroke. My bell rang.

"Telephone Engineering Department speaking," it said. "We have received a report that your
line is out of order. We are sending a man and hope he will finish the job before luncheon."

This was the end, as anyone knows who has ever got into the clutches: of the Telephone Engineering
Department.

"Please," I said (my spirit was quite broken)--"please, for God's sake, don't send a man. Not
this morning at any rate. Put it off, there's a good fellow."

"But I thought there was something wrong--"

"Oh, no, not at all. It's a hideous mistake. My line never behaved better in its life. It's
a positive joy to me."

I have it on Mr. BALFOUR'S authority that all truth cannot be told at all times. But I had
lost the set.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "On Friday, March 7th, Messrs. ----, on the instructions of
    the executors of the late Mr. ----, are selling by auction in
    pneumonia and acute influenzal pneu-built cottages situate in
    Chapel Street."--Provincial Paper.

Personally we were not bidding.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(BY MR. PUNCH'S STAFF OF LEARNED CLERKS.)

When a story bears the attractive title of The House of Courage (DUCKWORTH); when it begins
in the Spring of 1914 with a number of pleasantly prosperous people whose faith in the continuance
of this prosperity is frequently emphasised ("as if they had a contract with God Almighty"
is how an observant character phrases it); and when, in the first chapter, the hero has an
encounter with two Germans in a Soho restaurant--well, it requires no great guessing to tell
what will happen before we are through with it. And, in fact, Mrs. VICTOR RICKARD'S latest
is yet another war-story; though with this novelty, that the hero's experiences of service
are almost entirely gained in a German prison-camp. As perhaps I need not say, both divisions
of the tale are admirably written. It is hardly the author's fault that the earlier half, with
its pictures of a genial hunting society in County Cork, is distinctly more entertaining than
the scenes of boredom and brutality at Crefeld, well-conveyed as these are and almost over-realistic
and convincing. Inevitably too the scheme is one of incident rather than character. One has
never any very serious doubt that in the long run the hero, Kennedy, will marry the girl of
his choice, despite the fact of her engagement to the clearly unworthy Harrington. But as part
of the long run was from Crefeld to the Dutch frontier, over every obstacle that you can imagine
(and a few more, including an admirable thrill almost on the post), one is left with the comfortable
feeling that the prize was well earned. You will rightly judge that most of The House of Courage
is rather more frankly sensational than Mrs. RICKARD'S previous war-work; but it remains an
excellent yarn.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Esmé Hillier, possessed by The Imp (HODDER AND STOUGHTON), was only ten, in a fit of annoyance
she pushed the hero (to whom she had had no previous introduction) into the sea. I have some
sympathy with her energetic protest, for a Highland Chieftain even at the age of sixteen should
know better than to row about in an open boat kissing a young lady. Esmé, a pained spectator,
showed her public spirit by punishing his bad form, but in the act she sealed her own fate,
for after this it was inevitable that they should ultimately marry each other, the girl of
the kissing episode notwithstanding. The immediate incentive to their union, which was by the
Scotch method, was that Esmé had applied mustard-plasters to a Cabinet Minister's person by
affixing them to his dress-suit, and Tourntourq, the Chieftain, had nobly attempted to bear
the blame. Though married in haste they did not wait for leisure before they repented, but
commenced quarrelling at once, until Esmé, in order to test his love and that of an admirer
who was helping to complicate matters, "bobbed" her hair and threw the severed tresses at her
husband. After this they separated. Presently the War came, and the admirer, who was really
quite a nice person, was killed, and Tourntourq, who was apparently a lunatic, though that
is not stated in so many words, was blinded. It seems quite superfluous to add that Tourntourq
wins the V.C. and recovers both sight and wife in the last chapter; but there are such good
patches in the book that I cannot help hoping that some day WILSON MACNAIR will try her hand
(I feel it is her hand) at another, which I shall really believe in all through.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of late our costume-romancers have become strangely unprolific. So I was the more pleased to
find Mrs. ALICE WILSON FOX bravely keeping the old flag flying with a story bearing the gallant
title, Too Near the Throne (S.P.C.K.). I daresay its name may enable you to give a fairly shrewd
guess at its plot. This is an agreeable affair of a maid, reputed Catholic heir to the English
Crown, and used as pretext for an abortive rising against KING JAMES I. You can see that in
practised hands (as here) and decorated with a pretty trimming of sentiment, abductions, witch-finding
and other appropriate accessories, this furnishes a theme rich in romance. Perhaps I was a
thought disappointed that more was not made of the actual conspiracy, and that, having started
"too near the throne," the tale subsequently gave it so wide a berth. But this is no great
fault. I can witness that Mrs. WILSON FOX has at least one essential quality of the historical
novelist in her appreciation of picturesque raiment. Almost indeed she emulates those jewelled
paragraphs in which the creator of Windsor Castle would fill half a chapter with a riot of
sartorial coruscations. As a birthday present, say for an appreciative niece, I can think of
few volumes whose welcome would be better assured.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. JOHN MASEFIELD has brought together in St. George and the Dragon (HEINEMANN) a speech "given"
by him in New York on last St. George's Day, and a lecture on The War and the Future which
he delivered up and down America from January to August of last year. Since then many things
have happened. But nothing has happened that can make Mr. MASEFIELD other than proud of the
part he has played in explaining and glorifying his country's cause and commending it to the
hearts and minds of all good Americans. I confess that when I took up the book and read the
first few lines I was afraid that Mr. MASEFIELD had yielded to the temptation of delivering
his speech in poetical prose of a faintly Biblical character, as thus: "Friends, for a long
time I did not know what to say to you in this my second speaking here. I could fill a speech
with thanks and praise--thanks for the kindness and welcome which have met me up and down this
land wherever I have gone, and praise for the great national effort which I have seen in so
many places and felt everywhere." Mr. MASEFIELD however soon abandoned this manner and made
the rest of his way in a good solid pedestrian style. But he did not disdain to go so far in
flattery of the Americans, his audience, as to use the word "gotten" for the past tense of
the verb "to get."

       *       *       *       *       *

There can be few Irishmen who look at their England with such affectionate eyes as Lord DUNSANY.
Tales of War (FISHER UNWIN) is full of this sweet theme. The first of the tales is a fine story
of the Daleswood men who, cut off from their supports and worried because there would be none
left in their native village to carry on the Daleswood breed, were for sending out their youngest
boy to surrender. But, deciding that that wasn't good Daleswood form, they (for their last
hours, as they thought) fell to recalling the familiar beauties of their old home and to cutting
in the Picardy chalk the roll of their names for remembrance. You get it again, that calling-up
of the home memories, when, in another marooned party, the Sargeant that was keeper begins
with a vision of sausages and mashed and goes on to the birds and beasts and flowers and soft
noises of English woods at night. And in a half-dozen other sketches. And it is good to find
an Irishman and a poet to say things which stick on our embarrassed tongues. Lord DUNSANY has
a happy trick of compressing a great deal into a little space, and his vignettes, sketched
in with a conscious art, should find a place on our shelves among the war records which our
children are to read.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "When the wife of President Wilson was in London she spent
    hours shopping in Regent Street and other quaint sections of
    London."--Daily Gleaner.

Regent Street will be pleased.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Captain Hayes, of the Olympic, in receiving a loving cut from
    Halifax citizens, described how the Olympic sank the U-boat 103, a
    few months ago. The liner cut through the submarine without losing
    a single revolution of the propellers."--Australian Paper.

One good cut deserves another.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INFLUENZA-MASK.

  "Shall I," he cried, "who made the Hun skedaddle
    And caused the Wacht an Rhein to lose its job,
  Taught Johnny Turk the use of boot and saddle
    And fetched out FERDINANDO for a blob--
  Shall I allow each little grinning urchin
    To move me from my purpose? Shall I shrink
  For fear of idle Rumour wagging her chin?
      No, no! I do not think.

  "My high emprise may set the suburbs hooting
    And lay me under Balham's local curse;
  There be--I know it--those in Upper Tooting
    Would lynch the prophet and insult his hearse;
  But when my feet have kicked this mortal bucket
    Millions will bless me!--more I cannot ask;
  So, John, distract me not! Jemima, chuck it!
      And, Jane, bring forth the mask!"

