THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 10, No. 273.] SUPPLEMENTARY NUMBER. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW PALACE IN ST. JAMES'S PARK.

Palaces are at all times objects of national interest, or rather they are national concerns.
They belong to the attributes of royalty, and in some instances have been erected by a grateful
people to celebrate the virtues of patriot princes. We therefore make no apology to our readers
for occupying so large a portion of the present Supplementary Number with the representations
and details of the New Palace, (the exterior of which is just now completed,) and of the consequent
improvements in the adjoining Parks; since we are persuaded that the patriotic feelings of
our subscribers will hail them as subjects of paramount importance. The great Lord Bacon, who
treated these matters with the gravity of a philosopher, in his "Essays," gives a "brief model
of a princely palace;" and in our times Napoleon is known to have expended many thousands in
restoring the gilding of the palace at Versailles--although the extravagance of its founders
paved the way for the events in which he distinguished himself.

In architectural improvement, London has made greater advances since the late peace, than in
the entire century which preceded that auspicious event. Being unquestionably the richest,
the largest, and most populous city of Europe, the seat of a wealthier court, and a more opulent
body of nobility and gentry than any other metropolis, it seems only a reasonable expectation
that it should likewise excel all others in the number and magnificence  of its public edifices
and private dwellings. Such, however, is not the case; for, till within the last few years,
that most splendid and impressive of all the arts, architecture, has been almost wholly neglected.

The architectural superiority of London, such as it is, consists in the number, size, and neatness
of its principal streets and squares. Petersburgh, Berlin, Naples, Turin, Geneva, Antwerp,
Edinburgh, and other places, have perhaps finer streets than any in London, but in respect
to their number there is no comparison. In churches, London will probably be admitted, after
Rome, to take the first rank among the cities of Europe; but in palaces, London is confessedly
excelled by almost every other capital in Europe, both in public and private edifices of this
description; of the former, Whitehall, Carlton-house, (now almost demolished,) and the Mansion-house,
comprise the whole list of buildings any way entitled to the appellation of palaces--and even
their title has often been thought disputable.

To rescue our national character from this opprobrium, or ill-timed compliment to royalty,
the remodelling of Buckingham-house, or rather the erection of the New Palace in St. James's
Park, was decided on; and how far this design has been accomplished in the palace, we leave
it to the taste of our readers to determine. Various piecemeal, not to say absurd, descriptions
have, during the progress of the work, appeared in the London and provincial papers, many of
them originating in party feeling; but the structure has now so far advanced to completion
as to enable every spectator to estimate its merits and demerits; and we are sorry to add,
that much of the censure bestowed on the palace during its progress (though with bad motives)
now proves essentially correct. The name of the designer at present remains a secret. His majesty
is known to possess exquisite taste, and it is scarcely believed that his approbation can have
justified some of the incongruities, not to say enormities of the building; be this as it may,
the general public feeling is that of disappointment and regret.

The annexed view is of the central entrance front, facing east, towards the Canal and the Horse
Guards, taken from the Wall in St. James's Park. The first objection is the site, in itself
insuperable, as will appear from the following remarks on the subject by Mr. Loudon, editor
of the Gardener's Magazine:--

"Had the problem," he says, "been proposed (how) to alter Buckingham House and gardens, so
as to render the former as unhealthy a dwelling as possible, it could not have been better
solved than by the works now executed. The belt of trees which forms the margin of these grounds,
has long acted as the sides of a basin, or small valley, to retain the vapours which were collected
within; and which, when the basin was full, could only flow out by the lower extremity, over
the roofs of the stables and other buildings at the palace. What vapour did not escape in this
manner, found its way through between the sterns of the trees which adjoin these buildings,
and through the palace windows. Now, all the leading improvements on the grounds have a direct
tendency to increase this evil. They consist in thickening the marginal belts on both sides
of the hollow with evergreens, to shut out London: in one place substituting for the belt an
immense bank of earth, to shut out the stables; and in the area of the grounds forming numerous
flower-gardens, and other scenes with dug surfaces, a basin, fountains, and a lake of several
acres. The effect of all this will be a more copious and rapid exhalation of moisture from
the water, dug earth, and increased surface of foliage; and a more complete dam to prevent
the escape of this moist atmosphere, otherwise than through the windows, or over the top of
the palace. The garden may be considered as a pond brimful of fog, the ornamental water as
the perpetual supply of this fog, the palace as a cascade which it flows over, and the windows
as the sluices which it passes through. We defy any medical man, or meteorologist, to prove
the contrary of what we assert, viz. that Buckingham Palace is a dam to a pond of watery vapour,
and that the pond will always be filled with vapour to the level of the top of the dam. The
only question is, how far this vapour is entitled to be called malaria. We have the misfortune
to be able to answer that question experimentally.... A man must be something less or more
than a king, to keep his health in that palace for any length of time."

On the subject of malaria, an Italian term for the produce of marshy lands, the attention of
the public has lately been powerfully excited by a series of essays by Dr. Macculloch, an abstract
of which will be found at page 252, of our accompanying Number, under the head "Arcana of Science."
Dr. M. is supported in his opinion by Lord Bacon and other philosophers; and he shows, that
though it is commonly supposed that standing waters, when clear and free from smell, and all
running waters, are perfectly salubrious, they may, in fact, be nearly as injurious as those
that are putrid and stagnant; "that, besides proper marshes, fresh and salt meadows, and wet
pasture lands generally, all woods, coppices, thickets, rivers, lakes, ponds, ornamental waters,
pools, ditches--plashy and limited spots of ground generally, &c., send forth more or less
of this noxious vapour; that wherever, in short, any chemical compound of the vegetable elements
is wetted, or held in solution by water, there the poison in question may be or will be produced,
provided the temperature be sufficiently high; that the smallest spot coming under any of the
above denominations is sufficient to produce malaria, and a single inspiration of that malaria
to produce disease."

Such is the theory of Dr. Macculloch; but, as observed by a contemporary, Why should he have
observed any delicacy on this subject?--why not have, long since, denounced the whole of the
ponds in St. James's, the Green, and Hyde Parks, Kensington Gardens, and the Regent's Park,
as pestilential nuisances to all around them? Besides, he states that malaria is only generated
in hot weather; so that the palace, being intended as a winter residence, the health of our
gracious sovereign will, we hope, not be endangered by his residence. That there is much show
of reason in this objection, cannot be denied; at the same time it should be remembered, that
in all great undertakings the conflicting prejudices and caprices of private interests generally
work too prominent a part: hence, opinions should be entertained with caution.

It is now time to speak of the architectural character of the palace. The main front represented
in our engraving, forms three sides of a quadrangle, thus II, the area being not far from equal,
and forming a clear space of about 250 feet in diameter. The central entrance is a portico
of two orders of architecture in height; the lower is the Doric, copied from the temple of
Theseus at Athens; the upper is the Corinthian, resembling that style in the Pantheon at Rome.
This portico is so contrived, that upon the ground carriages can drive through it; while above,
there is an open and spacious gallery, covered by a pediment on which statues are to be placed,
and under which is a long panel filled with figures in high relief. It is understood that this
entrance is to be exclusively appropriated for the admission of his Majesty and the royal family.
The above union of two of the Greek orders is much censured: indeed a harmonious union of any
two of the Greek orders has never been an easy task. In the Doric architecture of the ground
story, the usual magnificence of this order is wanting; the columns being merely surmounted
by what is termed "an architrave cornice," with the mutiles; while the frieze, with its rich
triglyphs and metopes is altogether omitted. The Corinthian order of the upper story is altogether
more worthy of admiration, notwithstanding that some objection has been raised to the "disproportionately
slender columns, when contrasted with the massive shafts beneath them." Here, too, the entire
frieze, with its emblematical embellishments of the British crown, surrounded with laurel,
and alternate leaves of the rose, the thistle and shamrock, is sure to attract the eye of the
spectator: the character and effect of the whole is truly British.

The Doric order, as adopted in the lower parts of the portico, is carried round the three sides
of the court, consisting of fluted cast-iron columns, which are beautiful specimens of our
excellence in the art of founding. At each side of the portico, terminating the centre front,
is a pavilion, where the orders are again applied; surmounting which is an attic, towering
above the other parts of the building, and decorated with pilasters and caryatides. Over the
pediment, or centre, will be seen a dome, which is however at the back of the palace, over
the state-chambers. This completes the front view as appears from the park.

The north and south sides of the quadrangle are only two stories high. In the centre of each
there is also an entrance. At each extremity, the building is raised, and roofed in a temple-like
form, presenting the ends towards the park with enriched pediments.

In the front of our engraving is represented a spacious circular enclosure which will be made,
by an ornamental railing of mosaic gold, and divided into compartments by terms. The same metallic
composition (which is patronized by Mr. Nash) is to be employed in every other part heretofore
constructed in iron. In the middle of this area the Waterloo monument will be erected: it is
to consist of a triumphal arch, somewhat resembling that of Constantine, at Rome, with national
emblems, trophies, &c., and colossal statues in the above metal, imitating bronze.

The south front, towards Pimlico, will form the general entrance to the palace, a concave circular
Ionic colonnade and lodges. Here the old octagon library of Buckingham-House is to remain,
when raised and embellished after the manner of the Temple of the Winds: the remainder of this
range is chiefly allotted to the domestic offices.

The west, or garden front, (of course, the back of the centre building of the quadrangle) is
strikingly picturesque; its impression on the beholder is altogether beautiful and pleasing,
and it is much to be regretted that the front or park view, (which will of course be exposed
to public view, while the garden front will be comparatively private,) does not partake more
largely of this character. The prima facies of the former is not likely to be admired, since
its few excellencies require to be selected by nice observation. Some of its details may delight
the artist, but the effect of the garden front will, on the most hasty observer, be that of
order and simplicity, the essentials of architectural perfection.

The centre of the garden front is circular, embellished with columns of the Corinthian order,
supporting the dome already alluded to. The upper story of the whole front is Corinthian, supported
on a rustic Ionic basement, and, says a contemporary, "though the latter, like the Doric basement
in front, has only an architrave cornice, yet in consequence of the parts omitted being of
little importance, and the character of the Ionic more nearly allied, in point of delicacy,
to the Corinthian, the construction is altogether tolerably harmonious." The outline is boldly
broken into massive forms, which are, as Mr. Loudon observes, "simple and easy to be comprehended,
and yet sufficiently enriched to mark the building as an abode destined for splendid enjoyment."
In this front, also, level with the middle or principal tier of windows (those of the suite
of state rooms) runs a stone balcony or balustrade, supported by corbels of a mixed character,--Gothic
and Italian masques of chimera blended with wings and scrolls of foliage of singular beauty.
On this side, too, is an extensive terrace, descending into the ground, with a rusticated front;
and a balustrade with pedestals supporting vases of antique and classical models; and at each
end an open Ionic temple, intended to be used as a summer conservatory.

The north front facing Piccadilly is of the same style and character with the garden front,
but of lighter proportions. Here are the king's private apartments, from choice, comparatively
small and compact, and the cabinet picture-gallery. Here, also, the terrace is continued, and
a similar Ionic temple conservatory placed at the other extremity. Thus, his majesty's windows
look out between these conservatories, upon the flower-garden spread below.

We are bound to acknowledge our partial, if not entire concurrence, in the general criticism
on the central front, and of the two wings. The first impression is far from that produced
by unity, grandeur, or elegance; there is a fantastical assemblage of turrets, attics, and
chimneys, and a poverty or disproportion, especially in "the temple-like forms" which complete
the ends towards the park. The dome, too, has been sarcastically compared with a "Brobdignagian
egg." It strictly belongs to the back part of the palace, and had it been screened from the
front, its form might have been less objectionable.

Of the internal arrangements of the palace, little is as yet perfectly known. On the principal
floor of the centre, between the east and west suites of rooms, runs a splendid picture and
statue gallery (the whole length of the building); the light into which is to be admitted from
the sides, in a slanting direction, by metal skylights. The ceiling has iron girders thrown
across, and is arched with combs, each having the ends closed, with the exception of a small
hole (like an inverted flower-pot), which admits a current of air to circulate through the
floor. The roof of this gallery is flat, and covered with slate embedded in a composition of
hot coal-tar, lime, and sand: the roofing of the other parts of the palace is mostly covered
with a similar composition, but not slated. The approach to the gallery is up the grand stairs,
and through several rooms, in which will be disposed the king's magnificent collection of armour.
The floors throughout are fireproof, formed of iron joists, and arched with hollow bricks of
a singular construction.

The group for the pediment of the east facade of the palace, representing the triumph of Britannia,
by Mr. Bailey, is nearly finished.

The original gardens of Buckingham House, an extensive space, will of course continue to be
the grounds of the new royal residence; but considerable alterations have been made to render
them eligible for that purpose. In order to conceal from the windows the great pile of stables
lately erected in Pimlico, near the lower end of Grosvenor-place, a large artificial mound
has been raised, and planted with curious trees and shrubs.[1] The whole area now assumes all
the appearances of natural hill and dale, is finely wooded, diversified with flowering and
evergreen shrubs, with fine lawns broken into parterres, and possessing a noble serpentine
piece of water, so disposed as to give the idea of great extent.[2] This water winds round
clumps of forest trees, which have been preserved for that purpose, and all that could be retained
of the previously existing scene. It is supplied from a large circular reservoir, (near the
top of the hill at Hyde Park Corner,) which is fed by a main from the Serpentine river. This
reservoir, almost like a Roman work for magnitude, may be made a beautiful feature in the gardens--in
copious and refreshing fountains, but not in pools and ornamental basins, such as are included
in the anathema of Dr. Macculloch.

Although the scheme of the garden may, like many other projects, look better on paper, than
in practice, it affords ample space for the display of much skill in artificial gardening.

    [1] This mound is said to resemble, in miniature, the scenery of
        Cumberland and Westmoreland. Perhaps this is too courtly; but
        it is surprising what the union of nature and art may effect in
        this way. Barrett, Cipriani, and Gilpin contrived to paint a room
        for Mr. Lock, at Norbury Park, so as to blend the scenery of
        Cumberland and Westmoreland, with the view from the windows, and
        to make it appear a continuation; and the effect was delightful,
        as thousands of delighted visiters have testified.

    [2] Some years since there was at Reigate, in Surrey, a successful
        attempt made in this style of laying out grounds, on the very
        site where the illustrious Lord Shaftesbury wrote his
        "Characteristics," and probably the very background of the
        Gribelin frontispiece to the early edition of that invaluable
        work. This spot came afterwards into the possession of a
        gentleman who laid it out and planted it in so many forms, as
        to comprise in miniature whatever can be supposed in the most
        noble seats; for in it were a mount, river, parterre, wilderness,
        and gardens, and a lawn containing four or five deer, terminated
        by a small wood; yet the whole extent of ground did not exceed
        four acres. This occasioned it to be called all the world in
        an acre. Something of this kind was also projected by John
        Evelyn, called Elysium Britannicum, the plan of which is to
        be found in his works; but he did not complete his scheme.
        Gardening is one of the most interesting amusements of retirement,
        and without gardens, palaces are but "gross handyworks."
        Philosophers and Heroes have always been fondly attached to
        gardens, and their retreats must form an agreeable relief to
        the cumbrous cares of Royalty itself.

       *       *       *       *       *

ST. JAMES'S PARK.

References to the Plan.

1. Parade at the Horse Guards.

2. Park planted as a garden, with shrubberies and paths.

3. Ornamental Water, containing three islands, planted with shrubs.

4. The new Terrace, fronting the Grand Mall.

5. New House now building.

6. Carlton-street.

7. Continuation of Waterloo-place, opening to the Park, with an ornamental Circus in the centre.

8. United Service Club House and Garden.

9. Athenaeum Club House, with Pleasure-Grounds behind.

10. Travellers' Club House.

11. Heralds' College.

12. Cockspur-street.

13. Pall Mall.

14. New Stable Yard.

15. Marlborough-house-street.

16. St. James's Palace.

17. Present Stable Yards.

18. Duke of York's House.

19. Late Carriage-road in the Park.

20. New Carriage-road, recently the Northern Mall.

21. The new Mall, now the Northern Mall.

       *       *       *       *       *

INTENDED IMPROVEMENTS IN THE PARKS.

22. A Splendid Triumphal Arch, in the front of the New Palace.

23. The King's Palace, on the site of Buckingham House.

24. Terrace behind the Palace; there is also a grand Terrace fronting the gardens.

25. Palace Garden, laid out in a picturesque style; including a line sheet of ornamental water,
with a carriage-way from an entrance  at Hyde Park Corner.

26. The Green Park.

27. The King's Stables, including those recently built, and others which are in contemplation.

28. James-street, leading from Buckingham Gate to Westminster, with thirteen new houses fronting
the Park.

29. Stafford-row, with ten new houses, extending to the Gun Tavern, and continuing to Ward's-row,
from whence Arabella-row runs, at the side of the King's Stable.

A road extends from Great George-street, Westminster, through Bird-cage walk, to Grosvenor-place,
for private carriages, on the side of which, marked 5 in the plan, (in front of the present
barracks,) a row of new houses will be erected.

The present Guard house at Buckingham Gate will be removed, and a new Guard house erected close
to the wall of the new stables in James-street.

There may, perhaps, be some alteration in the distribution of the interior of the Park, as
to the form of the paths; but the water will assume, as nearly as possible, the present shape,
and the public will have access to the whole of the Park.

Lamentations long and loud have been poured forth on the late neglected state of St. James's
Park. An intelligent home tourist in 1813, says, "It concerned me to observe that this park
presents at this time a neglected appearance, unworthy of a metropolitan royal park, adjoining
to the constant residence of the court."  The present promenades in Hyde-Park lose the effect
produced by rank and distinguished character, owing to those classes being shut up in their
carriages." Another writer, speaking of the park in Charles's time, with its Dorimants, Millamours,
and Millamants, says, "every thing around breathes of beauty and gaiety, the air is courtly,
silks are rustling, and feathers fluttering in the mall; fair forms are hovering, and bright
eyes glancing round; at every turn you encounter lords and beauties." In the "neglected state"
we have long concurred; and we sympathize with our tourist in his other lament; for the former
we have a remedy at last, and it affords us pleasure to know that the first of these tourists
possesses health and vigour to watch the progress of the improvements in the parks; and we
hope that he may live many years to enjoy their completion. But for the second evil, we fear
there is no remedy, since the disease is mortal to social happiness; unless that the proffered
improvements may once more reinstate the Montpellier promenades of the park in fashion's favour.
Editors are, however, very subordinate personages, when

  ----Fashion so directs, and moderns raise
  On fashion's mould'ring base their transient praise.

Be this as it may, we, who are so unfashionable as to be occasional promenaders in the parks,
rejoice to present our readers with the annexed plan of the improvements now in progress in
St. James's Park, and in conjunction with the palace works they denote the simultaneous study
of the happiness of the sovereign and the subject. Our country readers, surrounded by all the
blooming attributes of health, will doubtless congratulate such important improvements of what
has been termed "the lungs of the metropolis."

The annexed plan is reduced from the engraving which accompanied the Treasury Minute, January
19, 1827; from which the following are extracts:--

    "The Earl of Liverpool and the Chancellor of the Exchequer lay before
    the Board a plan for building on the North and South sides of St.
    James's Park, (in addition to the buildings already sanctioned upon
    the site of Carlton Gardens;) and also for making some considerable
    alterations in the distribution of the intermediate ground, whereby
    the appearance of the park would be much improved, while a very
    material accommodation would be afforded to the public.

    "They state, that they have received the King's commands to convey to
    the Board his Majesty's most gracious approbation of this proposal,
    and his pleasure that the necessary steps should be taken, with as
    little delay as possible, for carrying the measure into execution, so
    far as it respects the South side of the park, and the alteration of
    the ground comprised in it.

    "My Lords perceive, that by this plan the whole of the space in St.
    James's Park, now laid out in grass, and from which the public are
    excluded, will be thrown open (with the exception of the parts to be
    planted) for the use of persons on foot."

The magnificent range of buildings intended to occupy the site of Carlton-house and gardens,
and to extend from Spring Garden, Charing Cross on the east, to the Ordnance office, in Pall
Mall, on the west, is already commenced in the last mentioned quarter. The substructure is
a terrace, (containing the domestic offices,) of about 53 feet wide--its architecture of the
Paestum Doric order surmounted by a balustrade. The order of the superstructure is Corinthian.
In the centre of the range will be a fountain formed of the eight columns of the portico of
Carlton-house, with eight additional columns on the same model. The basement story of all the
houses is to be supplied with water by the overflow of this fountain and jets.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our third Engraving represents the Grand Lodge Entrance to the New Palace, and resembles the
arch in the front of the palace. The frieze of this gateway or arch, which is said to possess
great merit, is still in the course of execution. Altogether this structure may be expected
to form an approach of suitable splendour to the royal domain, whilst it bids fair to rank
among the most interesting of the modern architectural embellishments of the metropolis.

       *       *       *       *       *

Such is an outline of the improvements now in progress in St. James's Park and its vicinity.
The palace may have fallen short of some expectations, but with all its imperfections, it will,
when completed, be a pile of immense magnitude, with much of the grandeur and magnificence
appertaining to regal splendour. His majesty will reside there when in his capital, and it
is not an indifferent trait to observe, that it will not be altogether strange to his eyes;
for every mantle and movable piece of Carlton palace, which can be used in the palace in St.
James's Park, has been, or is about to be, removed thither. Meanwhile, the recreation of the
people is not unstudied in the new arrangements of the park; indeed, it appears to be with
their illustrious originator a primary consideration, as will be seen on reference to the treasury
minute. Hence all loyal and grateful subjects may join in the song of olden time:

  God prosper long our noble king,
  Our lives and safeties all.

       *       *       *       *       *

Arcana of Science.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAPTAIN PARRY'S EXPEDITION.

(Abridged from the Literary Gazette.)

On Saturday, September 29th, Captain Parry from his Arctic, and Captain Franklin from his North-American
expedition, arrived at the Admiralty within half an hour of each other![3]

Captain Parry may himself be taken as a specimen of the health of his crew; he looks as well
as when he set out on his bold undertaking.

The sum of the intelligence which has transpired is, that the Hecla having arrived at Hamerfest,
took in the rein-deer for dragging the boats, snow-shoes, &c. for the journey over the ice.
Having reached the coast of Spitzbergen, a heavy gale drove the ship among packed ice, where
she was entangled for several weeks, to the 6th of June. Here the first effort to proceed in
the manner projected was tried on two boats commanded by Captain Parry and Lieut. Ross; but
the ice broke up, and it was speedily relinquished. The Hecla then wrought to the north as
far as Seven Islands, where finding no harbour, she put back. By the 19th of June, however,
having cut through a formidable barrier, to the Wratskel of Van Henloopen, a second attempt
to get forward in the ice-boats was strenuously made. Unfortunately the ice was what is called
rotten, and so irregular as to render success impossible. Nothing could exceed the fatigues
and difficulties of transport; the boats had to be loaded and unloaded many times in the course
of a few hours; and no field-ice was met with, to any extent, over which they might glide on
their way. The party at last attained the latitude of 82 deg., and three quarters N.; or to
between four and five hundred miles of the Pole. Heavy rains prevailed, and the ice over which
they were travelling so laboriously towards the north, was itself drifting more rapidly to
the south than the distances which they could accomplish. Thus, the last three days having
been spent in this disheartening and fruitless toil,--half the provisions being exhausted,--some
of the men falling sick, and being reported unfit for exertion,--the scurvy threatening them,--and
no hope of any favourable change remaining--our brave countrymen were compelled to abandon
their impracticable design. They accordingly returned to the Hecla, and on the 24th of September
put into Longhope, in the Orkneys, without having experienced any loss by death. The whole
period occupied in these exertions on the ice is stated to have been sixty-one days.

