A. Certainly--upon credit.

Q. Can you tell me what is credit?

A. Credit is the motive power which induces persons who have cash, to part with some of it
to those who have it not.

Q. Can you give me an instance of credit?

A. Certainly. A young man who is able to live at the rate of a thousand a-year, with an income
not exceeding nothing a month, is a case of credit.

Q. Would it be right to describe such a transaction "as much to his credit"?

A. It would be more precise to say, "much by his credit;" although the former phrase would
be accepted by a large class of the community as absolutely accurate.

Q. What is bimetallism?

A. Bimetallism is a subject that is frequently discussed by amateur financiers, after a good
dinner, on the near approach of the coffee.

Q. Can you give me your impression of the theory of bimetallism?

A. My impression of bimetallism is the advisability of obtaining silver, if you cannot get gold.

Q. What is the best way of securing gold?

A. The safest way is to borrow it.

Q. Can money be obtained in any other way?

A. In the olden time it was gathered on Hounslow Heath and other deserted spots, by mounted
horsemen wearing masks and carrying pistols.

Q. What is the modern way of securing funds, on the same principles, but with smaller risk?

A. By promoting Companies and other expedients known to the members of the Stock Exchange.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUEER QUERIES.

FOREIGN CLERKS.--I should be grateful for any information as to where I could acquire a knowledge
of French, German, Italian, Spanish, Arabic, and Russian, without leaving the neighbourhood
of Camberwell New Road, and at a merely nominal cost. I find that, unless I know those languages,
I have no chance of competing with German Clerks; whereas, if I did know them, I should be
nearly sure of obtaining a berth in a London Firm at not less than fifteen shillings a week,
rising, by half centuries, to fifteen and sixpence, and even to sixteen shillings. Also, what
is the least amount of porridge (without milk or sugar), haricot beans, or lentil soup, that
will preserve a person from starvation, if he takes nothing else, and works fourteen hours
a day? I intend imitating my Teutonic rivals in frugality, as well as in languages; any dietetic
hints (especially from Scotchmen), would therefore be welcomed by NO POLYGLOT.

       *       *       *       *       *

A DELICATE REQUEST.--On Wednesday--that day in every week which is kept as a whole holiday
in honour of Mr. Punch--the 8th Feb., there is to be "a meeting of Old Paulines" at Anderton's
Hotel, when "the attendance of all Old Paulines is requested." Ahem! The aged representatives
of the heroine of the Lady of Lyons will not be attracted by the wording of this rather un-paulite
announcement. Why was not the invitation extended to the old Claude Melnottes as well? There
must be a lot of them about.