'Yes,' replied Philpot, 'and not honly will you get a prize for good conduck tomorrer, but
if you all keep on workin' like we've bin doing lately till you're too hold and wore hout to
do any more, you'll be allowed to go to a nice workhouse for the rest of your lives! and each
one of you will be given a title--"Pauper!"'

And they laughed!

Although the majority of them had mothers or fathers or other near relatives who had already
succeeded to the title--they laughed!

As they were going home, Crass paused at the gate, and pointing up to the large gable at the
end of the house, he said to Philpot:

'You'll want the longest ladder--the 65, for that, tomorrow.'

Philpot looked up at the gable.

It was very high.

Chapter 46

The 'Sixty-five'

The next morning after breakfast, Philpot, Sawkins, Harlow and Barrington went to the Yard
to get the long ladder--the 65--so called because it had sixty-five rungs.  It was really what
is known as a builder's scaffold ladder, and it had been strengthened by several iron bolts
or rods which passed through just under some of the rungs.  One side of the ladder had an iron
band or ribbon twisted and nailed round it spirally.  It was not at all suitable for painters'
work, being altogether too heavy and cumbrous.  However, as none of the others were long enough
to reach the high gable at the Refuge, they managed, with a struggle, to get it down from the
hooks and put it on one of the handcarts and soon passed through the streets of mean and dingy
houses in the vicinity of the yard, and began the ascent of the long hill.

There had been a lot of rain during the night, and the sky was still overcast with dark grey
clouds.  The cart went heavily over the muddy road; Sawkins was at the helm, holding the end
of the ladder and steering; the others walked a little further ahead, at the sides of the cart.

It was such hard work that by the time they were half-way up the hill they were so exhausted
and out of breath that they had to stop for a rest.

'This is a bit of all right, ain't it?' remarked Harlow as he took off his cap and wiped the
sweat from his forehead with his handkerchief.

While they rested they kept a good look out for Rushton or Hunter, who were likely to pass
by at any moment.

At first, no one made any reply to Harlow's observation, for they were all out of breath and
Philpot's lean fingers trembled violently as he wiped the perspiration from his face.

'Yes, mate,' he said despondently, after a while.  'It's one way of gettin' a livin' and there's
plenty better ways.'

In addition to the fact that his rheumatism was exceptionally bad, he felt unusually low-spirited
this morning; the gloomy weather and the prospect of a long day of ladder work probably had
something to do with it.

'A "living" is right,' said Barrington bitterly.  He also was exhausted with the struggle up
the hill and enraged by the woebegone appearance of poor old Philpot, who was panting and quivering
from the exertion.

They relapsed into silence.  The unaccountable depression that possessed Philpot deprived him
of all his usual jocularity and filled him with melancholy thoughts.  He had travelled up and
down this hill a great many times before under similar circumstances and he said to himself
that if he had half a quid now for every time he had pushed a cart up this road, he wouldn't
need to do anyone out of a job all the rest of his life.

The shop where he had been apprenticed used to be just down at the bottom; the place had been
pulled down years ago, and the ground was now occupied by more pretentious buildings.  Not
quite so far down the road--on the other side--he could see the church where he used to attend
Sunday School when he was a boy, and where he was married just thirty years ago.  Presently--when
they reached the top of the hill--he would be able to look across the valley and see the spire
of the other church, the one in the graveyard, where all those who were dear to him had been
one by one laid to rest.  He felt that he would not be sorry when the time came to join them
there.  Possibly, in the next world--if there were such a place--they might all be together
once more.

He was suddenly aroused from these thoughts by an exclamation from Harlow.

'Look out! Here comes Rushton.'

They immediately resumed their journey.  Rushton was coming up the hill in his dog-cart with
Grinder sitting by his side.  They passed so closely that Philpot--who was on that side of
the cart--was splashed with mud from the wheels of the trap.

'Them's some of your chaps, ain't they?' remarked Grinder.

'Yes,' replied Rushton.  'We're doing a job up this way.'

'I should 'ave thought it would pay you better to use a 'orse for sich work as that,' said Grinder.

'We do use the horses whenever it's necessary for very big loads, you know,' answered Rushton,
and added with a laugh: 'But the donkeys are quite strong enough for such a job as that.'

The 'donkeys' struggled on up the hill for about another hundred yards and then they were forced
to halt again.

'We mustn't stop long, you know,' said Harlow.  'Most likely he's gone to the job, and he'll
wait to see how long it takes us to get there.'

Barrington felt inclined to say that in that case Rushton would have to wait, but he remained
silent, for he remembered that although he personally did not care a brass button whether he
got the sack or not, the others were not so fortunately circumstanced.

While they were resting, another two-legged donkey passed by pushing another cart--or rather,
holding it back, for he was coming slowly down the hill.  Another Heir of all the ages--another
Imperialist--a degraded, brutalized wretch, clad in filthy, stinking rags, his toes protruding
from the rotten broken boots that were tied with bits of string upon his stockingless feet.
The ramshackle cart was loaded with empty bottles and putrid rags, heaped loosely in the cart
and packed into a large sack.  Old coats and trousers, dresses, petticoats, and under-clothing,
greasy, mildewed and malodorous.  As he crept along with his eyes on the ground, the man gave
utterance at intervals to uncouth, inarticulate sounds.

'That's another way of gettin' a livin',' said Sawkins with a laugh as the miserable creature
slunk past.

Harlow also laughed, and Barrington regarded them curiously.  He thought it strange that they
did not seem to realize that they might some day become like this man themselves.

'I've often wondered what they does with all them dirty old rags,' said Philpot.

'Made into paper,' replied Harlow, briefly.

'Some of them are,' said Barrington, 'and some are manufactured into shoddy cloth and made
into Sunday clothes for working men.

'There's all sorts of different ways of gettin' a livin',' remarked Sawkins, after a pause.
'I read in a paper the other day about a bloke wot goes about lookin' for open trap doors and
cellar flaps in front of shops.  As soon as he spotted one open, he used to go and fall down
in it; and then he'd be took to the 'orspital, and when he got better he used to go and threaten
to bring a action against the shop-keeper and get damages, and most of 'em used to part up
without goin' in front of the judge at all.  But one day a slop was a watchin' of 'im, and
seen 'im chuck 'isself down one, and when they picked 'im up they found he'd broke his leg.
So they took 'im to the 'orspital and when he came out and went round to the shop and started
talkin' about bringin' a action for damages, the slop collared 'im and they give 'im six months.'

'Yes, I read about that,' said Harlow, 'and there was another case of a chap who was run over
by a motor, and they tried to make out as 'e put 'isself in the way on purpose; but 'e got
some money out of the swell it belonged to; a 'undered pound I think it was.'

'I only wish as one of their motors would run inter me,' said Philpot, making a feeble attempt
at a joke.  'I lay I'd get some a' me own back out of 'em.'

The others laughed, and Harlow was about to make some reply but at that moment a cyclist appeared
coming down the hill from the direction of the job.  It was Nimrod, so they resumed their journey
once more and presently Hunter shot past on his machine without taking any notice of them...

When they arrived they found that Rushton had not been there at all, but Nimrod had.  Crass
said that he had kicked up no end of a row because they had not called at the yard at six o'clock
that morning for the ladder, instead of going for it after breakfast--making two journeys instead
of one, and he had also been ratty because the big gable had not been started the first thing
that morning.

They carried the ladder into the garden and laid it on the ground along the side of the house
where the gable was.  A brick wall about eight feet high separated the grounds of 'The Refuge'
from those of the premises next door.  Between this wall and the side wall of the house was
a space about six feet wide and this space formed a kind of alley or lane or passage along
the side of the house.  They laid the ladder on the ground along this passage, the 'foot' was
placed about half-way through; just under the centre of the gable, and as it lay there, the
other end of the ladder reached right out to the front railings.

Next, it was necessary that two men should go up into the attic--the window of which was just
under the point of the gable--and drop the end of a long rope down to the others who would
tie it to the top of the ladder.  Then two men would stand on the bottom rung, so as to keep
the 'foot' down, and the three others would have to raise the ladder up, while the two men
up in the attic hauled on the rope.

They called Bundy and his mate Ned Dawson to help, and it was arranged that Harlow and Crass
should stand on the foot because they were the heaviest.  Philpot, Bundy, and Barrington were
to 'raise', and Dawson and Sawkins were to go up to the attic and haul on the rope.

'Where's the rope?' asked Crass.

The others looked blankly at him.  None of them had thought of bringing one from the yard.

'Why, ain't there one 'ere?' asked Philpot.

'One 'ere?  Of course there ain't one 'ere!' snarled Crass.  'Do you mean to say as you ain't
brought one, then?'

Philpot stammered out something about having thought there was one at the house already, and
the others said they had not thought about it at all.

'Well, what the bloody hell are we to do now?' cried Crass, angrily.

'I'll go to the yard and get one,' suggested Barrington.  'I can do it in twenty minutes there
and back.'

'Yes! and a bloody fine row there'd be if Hunter was to see you!  'Ere it's nearly ten o'clock
and we ain't made a start on this gable wot we ought to 'ave started first thing this morning.'

'Couldn't we tie two or three of those short ropes together?' suggested Philpot.  'Those that
the other two ladders was spliced with?'

As there was sure to be a row if they delayed long enough to send to the yard, it was decided
to act on Philpot's suggestion.

Several of the short ropes were accordingly tied together but upon examination it was found
that some parts were so weak that even Crass had to admit it would be dangerous to attempt
to haul the heavy ladder up with them.

'Well, the only thing as I can see for it,' he said, 'is that the boy will 'ave to go down
to the yard and get the long rope.  It won't do for anyone else to go: there's been one row
already about the waste of time because we didn't call at the yard for the ladder at six o'clock.'

