The next day we had the most lovely dawn over the deeply coloured autumn woods in this country
where I made my sketches of three years ago; but just here the landscape becomes accentuated
and enlarged and acquires a pathetic majesty. How can I tell you the grandeur of the horizon!
We are remaining in this magnificent place, and this is All Saints' Day!

At the moment, I write to you in the silvery light of a sun rising over the valley mists; we
are conscious of the sleeping country for forty kilometres around, and battle hardly disturbs
the religious gravity of the scene.

Do love my proposed picture! It makes a bond with my true career. If it is vouchsafed to me
to return, the form of the picture may change, but its essence is contained in the sketch.

Mid-day.--Splendid All Saints' Day profaned by violence.

Glory of the day. . . .

November 2, All Souls'.

Splendid feast of sun and of joy in the glorious beauty of a Meusian landscape. Hope confines
itself in the heart, not daring to insult the grief of those for whom this day is perhaps the
first day of bereavement.

Dear beloved mother, twenty-eight years ago you were in a state of mourning and hope to-day,
the agony is as full of hope as then. It is at a different age that these new trials occur,
but a whole life of submission prepares the way to supreme wisdom.

Dear, the frightful record of martyrdom of the best French youth cannot go on indefinitely.
It is impossible that the flower of a whole race can disappear.

There must be some nobler task than war for the nation's genius! I have a secret conviction
of a better near future. May our courage and our union lead us to this better thing. Hope,
hope always! I received grandmother's dear letter and M.R.'s kind and affectionate card.

Dear, have you this beautiful sun to-day? How noble is the country and how good is Nature!
To him who listens she says that nothing will ever be lost.

November 4, 10 o'clock.

I live only through your thoughts and in the blessings of Nature. This morning our chiefs menaced
us with a march of twenty kilometres, and this threat fulfilled itself in the form of a charming
walk in the landscape that I love so much.

Exquisite vapours, which we see lifting hour by hour at the call of a temperate sun; and, yonder,
those high plateaux which command a vast panorama, where everything is finely drawn, or rather
is just felt in the mist. . . .

There are hills furnished with bare trees holding up their charming profiles. I think of the
primitives, of their sensitive and conscientious landscapes. What scrupulous majesty, of which
the first sight awes with its grandeur, and the detail is profoundly moving!

You see, dear mother, how God dispenses blessings that are far greater than griefs. It is not
even a question of patience, since time has no longer any meaning for us, for it is not a matter
of any calculable duration. But then, what richness of emotion in each present minute!

This then is our life, of which I wrote to you that not one event must make of it something
unachieved, interrupted; and I hope to preserve this wisdom. But at the same time I want to
ally it with another wisdom which looks to the future, even if the future is forbidden to us.
Yes, let us take all from the hands of the present (and the present brings us so many treasures!),
but let us also prepare for the future.

November 5, 8 o'clock.

DEAR MOTHER,--Do not hide from me anything of what happens in Paris, of your cares, or your
occupations. All that you will decide is for the best. My own happiness, in the midst of all
this, lies just in that security I have in thinking of your spirit.

The weather is still exquisite and very soft. To-day, without leaving the beautiful region
to which we came on September 20th, we have returned to the woods. I like that less than the
wide open view, but there is prettiness here too. And then the sky, now that the leaves have
fallen, is so beautiful and so tender.

I have written to C----. I will write to Mme. C----. I hope for a letter from you. If you knew
how much the longer is a day without news! It is true I have your old letters, but the new
letter has a fragrance which I now can't do without.

November 6.

Yesterday, without knowing why, I was a little sad: what soldiers call avoir le cafard. My
sadness arose from my having parted the day before with a book of notes which I had decided
to send to you in a package. The events of the day before yesterday, albeit pacific, had so
hustled me that I was not able to attend to this unfortunate parcel as I should have liked.
Also, I was divided between two anxieties: the first, lest the package should not reach you,
and lest these notes, which have been my life from the 1st to the 20th of October, should be
lost. The second, on the contrary, was lest it should reach you before the arrival of explaining
letters, which might seem strange to you, the sending-off having probably been done in another
name, and the cover of my copybook bearing my directions that the notes should be forwarded
to you if necessary.

       *       *       *       *       *

. . . To-day we are living in the most intimate and delicate Corot landscape.

From the barn where we have established our outpost, I see, first, the road with puddles left
by the rain; then some tree-stumps; then, beyond a meadow, a line of willows beside a charming
running stream. In the background, a few houses are veiled in a light mist, keeping the delicate
darks which our dear landscape-painter felt so nobly.

Such is the peace of this morning. Who would believe that one has but to turn one's head, and
there is nothing but conflagration and ruin!. . .

November 7, 8 A.M.

I have just had your card of the 30th announcing the sending-off of a packet. How kind this
is! how much thought is given to us! All this sweetness is appreciated to the full.

Yesterday, a delicious November day. This morning, too much fog for the enjoyment of nature.
But yesterday afternoon!

Delicate, refined weather, in which everything is etched as it were on a misty mirror. The
bare shrubs, near our post, have been visited by a flock of green birds, with white-bordered
wings; the cocks have black heads with a white spot. How can I tell you what it was to hear
the solitary sound of their flight in this stillness!--That is one good thing about war: there
can be only a certain amount of evil in the world; now, all of this being used by man against
man, beasts at any rate are so much the better off--at least the beasts of the wood, our customary
victims.

If you could only see the confidence of the little forest animals, such as the field-mice!
The other day, from our leafy shelter I watched the movements of these little beasts. They
were as pretty as a Japanese print, with the inside of their ears rosy like a shell. And then
another time we watched the migration of the cranes: it is a moving thing to hear them cry
in the dusk.

       *       *       *       *       *

. . . What a happiness to see that you are drawing. Yes, do this for us both. If you knew how
I itch to express in paint all our emotions! If you have read my letters of all this time you
will know my privation, but also my happiness.

Monday, November 9, 7 o'clock.

. . . We have returned to the wide open view that I love so much. Unfortunately we can only
catch a glimpse of it through mouse-holes. Well, it is always so!. . .

. . . All these days I have been feeling the charm of a country lying in autumn sweetness.
This peace was troubled yesterday by the poignant sight of a burning village. It is not the
first we have seen, and yet we have not grown used to it.

