Jacob was left alone, and one wrestled with him until daybreak. When he saw that he did not
win against Jacob, he struck the socket of his hip, and the socket of Jacob's hip was strained,
as he wrestled with him. Then he said, "Let me go, for the dawn is breaking." But Jacob replied,
"I will not let thee go unless you bless me." So he said to him, "What is your name?" He answered,
"Jacob." Then he said, "Your name shall be no longer Jacob, but Israel, which means Struggler
with God; for you have struggled with God and with men and have won." So he blessed him there.

When Jacob looked up, he saw Esau coming with four hundred men. And he put the maid servants
and their children in front, Leah and her children next, and Rachel and her son Joseph in the
rear. Then Jacob himself went in front of them, and he bowed down to the ground seven times,
as he drew near to his brother. Esau ran to meet him, threw his arms about his neck, and kissed
him, and they wept.

When Esau looked up and saw the women and the children, he said, "Who are these with you?"
Jacob answered, "The children whom God has so kindly given me." Then the maid servants with
their children came up and bowed down to the ground. Leah and her children also came and bowed
down, and afterward Joseph and Rachel came up and bowed down before Esau.

Esau asked, "What do you mean by all this company which I met?" Jacob answered, "To win your
friendship, my lord." Esau said, "I have enough, my brother; keep what you have." But Jacob
replied, "No, if now I have won your favor, receive this present from me to show that you are
my friend. Take, I beg of you, the gift that I bring to you, for God has been generous to me,
and I have enough." So he urged Esau until he took it.

Then Esau said, "Let me at least leave with you some of the people who are with me." But Jacob
replied, "What need is there? Let me only enjoy your friendship, my Lord." So Esau turned back
that day on his way to Seir.

JOSEPH SOLD AS A SLAVE BY HIS BROTHERS

When Joseph was seventeen years old, he and his brothers were shepherds, but he made them angry,
for he brought a bad report about them to their father. Now Jacob loved his son Joseph, who
was born in his old age; and he made him a long coat with sleeves. When his brothers saw that
their father loved him more than all his other sons, they hated Joseph and would not speak
to him in a friendly way.

Joseph had a dream which he told to his brothers; and they hated him still more. This is what
he said to them, "I dreamed that, as we were binding sheaves in the field, my sheaf rose up
and remained standing, while your sheaves came around and bowed down to my sheaf." His brothers
said to him, "Will you really be king over us? Will you indeed rule over us?" So they hated
him still more because of his dreams and his words.

When his brothers went to pasture his father's flocks in Shechem, Jacob said to Joseph, "Go,
see whether all goes well with your brothers and with the flock, and bring me back word." So
he sent him out, and a certain man found him, as he was wandering in the field, and the man
asked him, "What are you looking for?" He said, "I am looking for my brothers; tell me, I beg
of you, where they are pasturing the flock."

When they saw him in the distance, before he came to them, they planned together to kill him.
And they said one to another, "See, here comes that great dreamer! Come, let us kill him and
throw him into one of the pits, and we will say, 'A fierce beast has devoured him.' Then we
shall see what will become of his dreams!" Reuben said this to save Joseph from their hands
so that he could bring him back to his father. And Judah said to his brothers, "What do we
gain if we kill our brother and hide his blood? Come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites, and
let us do him no harm, for he is our brother, our own flesh and blood." So his brothers listened
to him; and, drawing up Joseph, they sold him for twenty pieces of silver to the Ishmaelites,
who brought him to Egypt.

Then his brothers took Joseph's long coat, killed a he-goat, dipped the coat in the blood,
and brought it to their father, and said, "We found this; see whether it is your son's coat
or not." He recognized it and said, "It is my son's coat! A wild beast has devoured him! Thus
Joseph's father mourned for him.

JOSEPH'S EAGERNESS TO HELP OTHERS

Joseph was taken down to Egypt, and Potiphar, an Egyptian, one of Pharaoh's officers, the captain
of the guard, bought him from the Ishmaelites.

Now Jehovah was with Joseph, so that he prospered; and he was in the house of his master, the
Egyptian. When his master saw that Jehovah was with him and made everything succeed that he
undertook, he trusted him and made him his own servant. He also made him overseer of his household
and placed all that he had in his care. From the time that he made him overseer in his house
and over all that he had, Jehovah blessed the Egyptian's household for Joseph's sake, and the
blessing of Jehovah was upon all that he had in the house and in the field. Potiphar left all
that he had in Joseph's charge, and he knew nothing about his affairs except about the food
which he ate. And Joseph was handsome and attractive.

After these honors had come to Joseph, his master's wife tried to tempt him to be unfaithful
to his trust. But he refused, saying to her, "See, my master knows nothing about what I do
in the house, and he has put all that he has in my charge. How then can I do this great wrong
and sin against God?" Day after day she tempted Joseph, but he did not listen to her. One day,
however, when he went into the house to do his work and when none of the men of the household
were at home, she caught hold of his garment and again tried to tempt him, but he left his
garment in her hand and fled out of the house.

She kept his garment by her until his master came home; then she said to him, "The Hebrew slave
whom you have brought to us came to me to insult me; and when I cried aloud, he left his garment
with me and fled."

When Joseph's master heard what his wife said to him, he was very angry; and he took Joseph
and put him into the prison, in the place where the king's prisoners were kept. So he was left
there in prison. But Jehovah was with Joseph and showed kindness to him and helped him to win
the friendship of the keeper of the prison, so that he placed all the prisoners in Joseph's
charge and made him responsible for whatever they did there. And the captain of the guard appointed
Joseph to wait on them; and they stayed in prison for some time.

And the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, who were in the prison, both had dreams
the same night, each with a different meaning. When Joseph came in to them in the morning,
he saw plainly that they were sad. So he asked Pharaoh's officers, "Why do you look so sad
to-day?" They answered, "We have had a dream, and there is no one who can tell what it means."
Then Joseph said to them, "Is not God the one who knows what dreams mean? Tell them to me,
if you will."

Then Joseph said to him, "This is what it means: the three branches are three days. Then he
set free the chief butler and the chief baker. He restored the chief butler to his office,
so that he again gave the cup to Pharaoh; but the chief baker he hanged, as Joseph had told
them. Yet the chief butler did not remember Joseph, but forgot him.

A PRISONER WHO BECAME A MIGHTY RULER

Two years later Pharaoh had a dream: as he stood by the river Nile, he saw coming up from the
water seven cows, well fed and fat, for they had been feeding in the river grass. Then seven
other cows came up after them out of the Nile, poorly fed and thin, and they stood by the other
cows on the bank of the Nile. The poorly fed, lean cows ate up the seven well-fed, fat cows.
Then Pharaoh awoke.

Afterward he slept and had a second dream and saw seven ears, plump and good, growing up on
one stalk. Also seven ears, thin and withered by the east wind, grew up after them. The thin
ears swallowed up the seven plump, full ears. Then Pharaoh awoke, and knew that it was only
a dream.

In the morning Pharaoh was worried. So he sent for all the magicians and wise men of Egypt
and told them his dreams; but no one could tell him what they meant.

Then the chief butler said to Pharaoh, "I now remember my sins: Pharaoh was very angry with
his servants and put me and the chief baker in prison in the house of the captain of the guard.
We both had dreams the same night, each with a different meaning. There was also with us a
young Hebrew, a servant of the captain of the guard. We told him our dreams and he told each
of us what our dreams meant. And our dreams came true just as he said they would: I was restored
to my office, but the chief baker was hanged."

Then Pharaoh sent for Joseph, and they quickly brought him out of the dungeon; and he shaved
his face, changed his clothes, and came to Pharaoh. Pharaoh said to Joseph, "I have had a dream,
and there is no one who can tell what it means. Now I have heard that when you hear a dream,
you can tell what it means." Joseph answered Pharaoh, "Not I; God alone can give Pharaoh a
true answer."

Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, "In my dream as I stood on the bank of the Nile, I saw seven cows,
fat and well fed, which had been feeding in the river grass. There came up after them seven
more cows, poorly fed and thin, worse than I ever saw in all the land of Egypt; and the lean
and poorly fed cows ate up the first seven fat cows. When they had eaten them up, one could
not tell that they had eaten them, for they were still as thin as at the beginning. Then I awoke.

"Again I dreamed and saw seven ears, plump and good, grow up on one stalk; then seven thin
ears, withered with the east wind, sprang up after them; and the thin ears swallowed up the
seven good ears. I have told the dream to the magicians, but there is no one who can tell me
what it means."

Then Joseph said to Pharaoh, "Pharaoh's two dreams mean the same thing; God has made known
to Pharaoh what he is about to do. The seven good cows are seven years, and the seven good
ears are seven years. It is one dream. The seven lean and poorly fed cows that came up after
them are seven years, and the seven empty ears withered with the east wind mean seven years
of famine. That is why I said to Pharaoh, 'God has shown to Pharaoh what he is about to do.'
Seven years of great plenty all through the land of Egypt are coming.

"The dream came twice to Pharaoh to show that the famine will surely come, and that God will
soon make the dream come true. Now therefore let Pharaoh pick out a man who is sensible and
wise and place him in charge of the land of Egypt. Let Pharaoh act quickly and put overseers
over the land and collect one-fifth of all that grows in the land of Egypt in the seven years
of plenty. Let them gather all the food of these good years that are coming and store up grain
under the authority of Pharaoh, and let them hold it in the cities for food. The food will
supply the land during the seven years of famine which shall be in the land of Egypt, so that
the people of the land may not die because of the famine." You shall be at the head of my country,
and all my people shall be ruled as you command. Only on the throne I will be above you."

So Pharaoh said to Joseph, "See, I have placed you over all the land of Egypt." And Pharaoh
took off his signet-ring from his finger and put it upon Joseph's finger and clothed him in
garments of fine linen and put a golden collar about his neck. He also made him ride in the
second chariot which he had; and they cried before him, "Attention!" So he placed him over
all the land of Egypt. And Joseph was thirty years old when he was made the ruler of the land
of Egypt.

In the seven years of plenty there were large harvests, and Joseph gathered up all the food
of the seven years of plenty, which were in the land of Egypt, and stored the food in the cities,
putting in each city the food that grew in the fields about it. Joseph stored up grain as the
sand of the sea, in great quantities, until he no longer kept account, because it could not
be measured. So when the famine was over all the country, Joseph opened all the storehouses
and sold food to the Egyptians: but the famine was severe in the land of Egypt. The peoples
of all lands came to Joseph in Egypt to buy grain, for everywhere the famine was severe.

THE TESTING OF JOSEPH'S BROTHERS

When Jacob learned that there was grain for sale in Egypt, he said to his sons, "Why do you
stand looking at each other? So the sons of Jacob went with others to buy grain, for the famine
was in the land of Canaan. They said, "From the land of Canaan to buy food." So Joseph knew
his brothers, but they did not know him.

Joseph also remembered the dreams which he had had about them and said to them, "You spies!
you have come to see how defenseless the land is." But they said to him, "No, my lord; your
servants have come to buy food. We are all sons of one man; we are honest men; your servants
are not spies." But he again said to them, "No, you have come to see how defenseless the land
is." They answered, "We, your servants, are twelve brothers, the sons of one father in the
land of Canaan. The youngest is to-day with our father, and one is dead." Joseph said to them,
"It is just as I said to you, 'You are spies.' By this you shall be tested: as sure as Pharaoh
lives you shall not go away unless your youngest brother comes here. Send one of you, and let
him bring your brother, while you remain in prison, that it may be proved whether you are telling
the truth or not. Or else, as sure as Pharaoh lives, you are indeed spies." So you will prove
that you have told the truth and you shall not die."

They did as Joseph commanded, but they said to one another, "We are indeed guilty because of
the way we treated our brother, for when we saw his trouble and when he pleaded with us, we
would not listen. That is why this trouble has come upon us." Reuben added, "Did I not say
to you, 'Do not sin against the boy,' but you would not listen?"

They did not know, however, that Joseph understood them, for he had spoken to them through
an interpreter. But he turned away from them and wept. Then he came back and spoke to them,
and taking Simeon from among them, bound him before their eyes. Then Joseph gave orders to
fill their vessels with grain and to put every man's money back in his sack and to give them
food for the journey; and thus it was done to them. So they loaded their asses with their grain
and went away.

As they were emptying their sacks, they found that each man's purse with his money was in his
sack; and when they and their father saw their purses and the money, they were afraid and they
turned trembling to one another with the question, "What is this that God has done to us?"
Jacob their father said to them, "You have robbed me of my children: Joseph is no longer living
and Simeon is no longer here, and now you would take Benjamin also! All this trouble has come
to me!" But Reuben said to his father, "You may put my two sons to death, if I do not bring
him to you. Put him in my charge and I will bring him back to you." Jacob said, "Why did you
bring trouble upon me by telling the man you had another brother?" They replied, "The man asked
all about us and our family, saying, 'Is your father still alive? Have you another brother?'
So we answered his questions as he asked them. How were we to know that he would say, 'Bring
your brother down'?"

Then Judah said to Jacob, his father, "Send the lad with me, and we will go at once, that both
we and you and our little ones may live and not die. I will be responsible for him; from me
you may demand him. If I do not bring him to you and set him before you, let me bear the blame
forever; for if we had not waited so long, surely we would by this time have come back the
second time." So their father said to them, "If it must be so, then do this: take some of the
fruits of the land in your jars and carry a present to the man, a little balsam, a little syrup,
spices, ladanum, pistachio nuts, and almonds. Take twice as much money with you, carrying back
the money that was put in your sacks. Perhaps it was a mistake. Take also your brother and
go again to the man. May God Almighty grant that the man may be merciful to you and free Benjamin
and your other brother. But if I am robbed of my sons, I am bereaved indeed!" We have brought
down with us more money with which to buy food. We do not know who put our money into our sacks."
He replied, "Peace be to you, fear not; your God and the God of your father has given you the
treasure in your sacks; your money came to me."

Then he brought Simeon out to them. The steward also took the men to Joseph's house and gave
them water with which to wash their feet, and he gave their asses fodder. Then they made ready
the present for Joseph, when he should come at noon, for they had heard that they were to eat
there.

When Joseph came into the house, they gave him the present which they had brought and bowed
down low before him. He asked them about their welfare and said, "Is your father well, the
old man of whom you spoke? Is he still living?" They replied, "Your servant, our father, is
well; he is still alive." Then they bowed their heads and knelt down before him. And he added,
"God be gracious to you, my son." Then because of his longing for his brother he sought a place
in which to weep. So he went into his room and wept there.

Then he bathed his face and came out and said, "Bring on the food." So they brought food for
him by himself and for them by themselves and for the Egyptians who ate with him by themselves,
because the Egyptians would not eat with the Hebrews, for to do so was hateful to them. Joseph's
brothers were seated before him, the eldest first, as was his right as the oldest, and the
youngest last, and the men looked at each other in astonishment. Then Joseph had portions served
to them from the food before him. But Benjamin's portions were five times as much as any of
theirs. So they drank and were merry with him.

Then he gave this command to the steward of his household: "Fill the men's grain sacks with
food, as much as they can carry, and put my cup, the silver cup, in the mouth of the sack of
the youngest and the money too that he paid for his grain." And the steward did as Joseph commanded.

As soon as the morning light appeared, the men were sent away with their asses. When they had
gone out of the city, but were not yet far away, Joseph commanded his steward, "Follow after
the men and when you overtake them, say to them, 'Why have you returned evil for good? Why
have you stolen my silver cup, that from which my master drinks? You have done wrong in so
doing.'" Remember that we brought back to you from the land of Canaan the money which we found
in our sacks. Why then should we steal silver or gold from your master's house? Let that one
of your servants with whom it is found die, and we will be my lord's slaves." He said, "Let
it now be as you have said: he with whom it is found shall be my slave; but you shall be innocent."
Then each one quickly took down his sack and opened it.

JOSEPH'S FORGIVENESS OF HIS BROTHERS

When Judah and his brothers came back to Joseph's house, Joseph was still there; and they threw
themselves before him on the ground. Joseph said to them, "What deed is this that you have
done? Do you not know that a man like me can always tell where things are?" Judah replied,
"What shall we say to my lord? What shall we speak or how shall we clear ourselves? God has
found out the guilt of your servants. See, both we and he also with whom the cup was found
are my lord's slaves." But Joseph said, "Far be it from me that I should do so! The man with
whom the cup was found shall be my slave; but you yourselves go up in peace to your father."
For your servant became responsible for the boy to my father, when I said, 'If I do not bring
him to you, then I will bear the blame before my father forever.' Now, therefore, let me, instead
of the boy, remain as a slave to my lord, I beg of you; but let the boy go back with his brothers.
For how can I go back to my father, if the boy is not with me, lest I should see the sorrow
that would come upon my father?"

Then Joseph could not control himself before all those who were standing by him; so he cried
out, "Let every man leave me." So no Egyptian was present while Joseph made himself known to
his brothers. But he wept so loudly that the Egyptians and Pharaoh's court heard.

And Joseph said to his brothers, "I am Joseph. Is my father still alive?" But his brothers
could not answer him, for they were too ashamed to look him in the face. Then Joseph said to
his brothers, "Come near to me, I beg of you." So they came near. He said, "I am Joseph, your
brother, whom you sold into Egypt. Do not be troubled nor angry with yourselves that you sold
me here, for God sent me before you to save your lives. For the famine has already been two
years in the land, and there are still five years in which there shall be neither ploughing
nor harvest. God sent me before you to save your lives through a great deliverance and thus
give you children on the earth. So now it is not you who sent me here, but God. He has made
me like a father to Pharaoh and master of all his household and ruler over all the land of Egypt.

"Go up quickly to my father and say to him, 'Your son Joseph says: God has made me master of
all Egypt. Come down to me without delay. You shall live in the land of Goshen, and you shall
be near me with your children and your grandchildren, with your flocks and your herds and all
that you have, so that you, with your household and all that you have, may never want. There
I will provide for you, for there will be five more years of famine.' Now you and my brother
Benjamin see that it is I who am speaking to you. Tell my father all about my honor in Egypt
and what you have seen; and you must quickly bring him down here."

JOSEPH'S LOYALTY TO HIS FAMILY

The news that Joseph's brothers had arrived became known in Pharaoh's palace; and it pleased
Pharaoh and his servants greatly. Pharaoh said to Joseph, "Say to your brothers, 'Do this:
load your beasts, go to the land of Canaan, and take your father and your families and come
to me, and I will give you the best there is in the land of Egypt, and you shall eat the best
that the land can give. Also do not pay any attention to your household goods, for the best
of all there is in the land of Egypt is yours.'" And the sons of Jacob did as they were commanded.

So Joseph gave them wagons, as Pharaoh ordered, and what was needed for the journey.

So he sent his brothers away, and, as they went, he said to them, "See that you do not quarrel
on the journey!" Then Jacob's heart stood still, for he could not believe them. I will go and
see him before I die."

Then Jacob set out on his journey with all that he had. He answered, "Here am I." God said,
"I am God, the God of your father.

When Jacob left Beersheba, his sons carried him and their little ones and their wives in the
wagons that Pharaoh had sent. When he met him, Jacob fell on his neck and wept there a long
time. And he took five of his brothers and presented them to Pharaoh. Pharaoh said to them,
"What is your business?" They answered, "Your servants are shepherds, both we and our fathers."
They also said to Pharaoh, "We have come to live in your country; because the famine is severe
in the land of Canaan, and there is no pasture for your servants' flocks. Now, therefore, we
beg of you, let your servants stay in the land of Goshen." Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, "Let
them stay in the land of Goshen; and if you know any able men among them, put them in charge
of my cattle." Jacob answered, "I have lived a hundred and thirty years; few and evil have
been the years of my life, and they have not been as many as those that my forefathers lived
on earth." After Jacob had blessed Pharaoh, he went out from Pharaoh's presence. So Joseph
gave his father and his brothers a place to live in and a home in the land of Goshen, in the
best part of the land of Egypt, as Pharaoh had commanded.

Joseph also provided food for his father and his brothers and all his father's family according
to the number of the little children. So the Israelites lived in Egypt, in the land of Goshen,
and there they grew wealthy and had many children.

THE BOYHOOD AND TRAINING OF MOSES

After the death of Joseph and his brothers, the Israelites increased so rapidly and became
so many and powerful that the land was filled with them. But a new king who did not know Joseph
ruled over Egypt. He said to his people, "See, the Israelites are becoming too many and powerful
for us. Come, let us deal wisely with them, for fear that they become so many that, if war
is begun against us, they will join our enemies and fight against us and leave the land."

So the Egyptians set taskmasters over them to put burdens upon them. And they built for Pharaoh
the store-cities, Pithom and Rameses. But the more the Egyptians afflicted them, the more numerous
they became and the more they spread everywhere, so that the Egyptians dreaded what they might
do. And the Egyptians were cruel and made slaves of them, making their lives bitter with hard
labor in mortar and brick, and by all kinds of hard work in the field.

Pharaoh also gave this command to all his people, "You shall throw into the river every son
that is born to the Hebrews, but every daughter you shall save alive."

Now a man of the tribe of Levi married a woman of the same tribe, and she had a son. When she
saw that he was a beautiful child, she hid him for three months. But when she could no longer
hide him, she took a basket made of papyrus reeds, daubed it with mortar and pitch, and put
the child in it. Then she placed it in the reeds by the bank of the river Nile, while his sister
stayed near by to see what would happen to him.

The daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe in the Nile, and while her maids were walking along
the river's bank, she saw the basket among the reeds and sent her waiting-maid to bring it.
When she opened it and saw the child, the boy was crying; and she felt sorry for him and said,
"This is one of the Hebrew children." Then the woman took the child and nursed it.

One time, after Moses had grown up, he went out to his own people; and as he was watching them
at their hard labor, he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew, one of his own race. He looked around
and seeing that there was no one in sight, he killed the Egyptian and hid him in the sand.

On the next day Moses went out, and saw two Hebrews struggling together; and he said to the
one who was in the wrong, "Why do you strike your fellow workman?" The man replied, "Who made
you a ruler and a judge over us? Do you intend to kill me as you killed the Egyptian?" Then
Moses was afraid and said, "What I have done is known!" When Pharaoh heard what had taken place,
he tried to put Moses to death; but Moses left the country and made his home in the land of Midian.

When they came to their father, he said, "How is it that you have come back so early to-day?"
Ask him to eat with us." So Moses made his home with the man; and he gave Moses his daughter
Zipporah to be his wife. She had a son, and Moses named him Gershom.

THE VOICE FROM THE BUSH

After a long time the king of Egypt died. Moses was taking care of the flock of Jethro his
wife's father. Once he led the flock to the other side of the pasture and came to Horeb, the
mountain of God. There the angel of Jehovah appeared to him in a flame of fire from the midst
of a thorn bush. As he looked, the bush flamed up without being burned. Moses said, "I will
stop here and see this wonderful sight, why the bush is not burned up."

When Jehovah saw that Moses stopped to look, he called to him from the midst of the bush, "Moses,
Moses." Moses answered, "Here am I."

But Jehovah said, "I have certainly seen the suffering of my people who are in Egypt and have
heard their cry of distress because of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows. I have
come down to rescue them from the power of the Egyptians and to bring them out of that land
into a land that is beautiful and wide, to a land with plenty of milk and honey. I have heard
the cry of the Israelites and I have seen how they suffer at the hands of the Egyptians. Come
now, I will send you to Pharaoh that you may bring my people, the Israelites, out of Egypt."

But Moses said to God, "Who am I, that I should go to Pharaoh and should bring the Israelites
out of Egypt?" He answered, "I will surely be with you; and this shall be the sign to you that
I have sent you: when you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall worship God upon
this mountain."

Then Moses said to God, "If I go to the Israelites and say to them, 'The God of your forefathers
has sent me to you,' and they ask me, 'What is his name?' what shall I answer them?" Now let
us go three days' journey into the wilderness, that we may offer a sacrifice to Jehovah our
God.' But I know that the king of Egypt will not let you go unless he is made to do so by a
mighty power. Therefore I will use my power and overwhelm Egypt with all the marvellous deeds
that I will do there. After that he will let you go."

Moses said to Jehovah, "O, Lord I am not able to speak well; for I am slow to speak and slow
in saying what I think." Jehovah said to him, "Who has given man a mouth? Or who makes one
deaf or dumb, or blind or able to see? Is it not I, Jehovah? Now go, and I will be with you
and teach you what you shall say; and your brother Aaron shall speak for you to the people."

Then Moses went back to Jethro, his wife's father, and said to him, "Let me go again to my
people in Egypt to see whether they are still alive." Jethro answered Moses, "Go, with my blessing."

PHARAOH THE STUBBORN RULER

Then Jehovah said to Aaron, "Go into the wilderness to meet Moses." So he went and met him
on the mountain of God and kissed him. And Moses told Aaron all that Jehovah had sent him to
declare. So Moses and Aaron gathered all the leaders of the Israelites, and Aaron repeated
all the words which Jehovah had spoken to Moses. The people believed; and when they heard that
Jehovah had remembered the Israelites and that he had seen their suffering, they bowed their
heads and worshipped.

Then Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and said to him, "Jehovah, the God of Israel commands,
'Let my people go that they may hold a feast in my honor in the wilderness.'" But Pharaoh said,
"Who is Jehovah that I should obey his command to let Israel go? I do not know Jehovah, and
I will not let Israel go." They said, "The God of the Hebrews has appeared to us; let us go
three days' journey into the wilderness that we may offer a sacrifice to Jehovah our God, that
he may not attack us with pestilence or with the sword." But the king of Egypt replied, "Moses
and Aaron, why do you try to turn the people from their work? Go to your tasks!"

The same day Pharaoh gave this command to the taskmasters who were over the people: "You shall
no longer give the people straw for making bricks as before. Let them go and gather straw for
themselves. Go yourselves, get straw wherever you can find it; but your work shall not be made
less.'" The overseers of the Israelites, whom Pharaoh's taskmasters had put over them, were
also beaten and asked, "Why have you not finished to-day as many bricks as yesterday?" But
he said, "You are lazy, you are lazy; therefore you say, 'Let us go and offer a sacrifice to
Jehovah.' Now go and work, for no straw shall be given you; yet you must make the same number
of bricks."

Then Moses turned again to Jehovah and said, "Jehovah, why hast thou brought misfortune upon
this people? Why is it that thou has sent me? For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in thy name
he has wronged this people, and thou hast done nothing at all to rescue thy people."

Jehovah answered Moses, "Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh; for compelled by a mighty
power he shall surely let them go, and compelled by a mighty power he shall drive them out
of his land."

THE COST OF BEING CRUEL AND STUBBORN

Then Jehovah said to Moses, "Pharaoh is stubborn; he will not let the people go. Go to Pharaoh
early in the morning, as he is going out on the water, and stand by the bank of the Nile to
meet him. Say to him, 'Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, has sent me to you with this command:
Let my people go that they may worship me in the wilderness, but so far you have not listened.
Jehovah declares, By this you shall know that I am Jehovah: See, I will strike the waters which
are in the river with the rod that is in my hand and they shall be changed into blood. The
fish, too, that are in the Nile shall die, and the Nile shall become foul, so that the Egyptians
will hate to drink its water.'"

Then Moses lifted up the staff and in the presence of Pharaoh and his servants struck the waters
that were in the river Nile; and all its waters were changed into blood. The fish, too, that
were in the Nile died, and the river became so foul that the Egyptians could not drink its
water, but dug round about the Nile for water to drink.

Seven days later Jehovah gave this command to Moses, "Go in to Pharaoh and say to him, 'Jehovah
commands: Let my people go that they may worship me. Moses said to Pharaoh, "Will you do yourself
the honor of telling me at what time I shall pray to Jehovah in your behalf and in behalf of
your servants and people, that the frogs be destroyed from your palaces and be left only in
the Nile?" Pharaoh answered, "To-morrow." Then Moses said, "Let it be as you say; that you
may know that there is none like Jehovah our God, the frogs shall depart from you, from your
palaces, and from your servants and people; they shall be left only in the Nile."

When Moses and Aaron had gone out from Pharaoh, Moses prayed to Jehovah to remove the frogs
which he had brought upon Pharaoh; and Jehovah did as Moses asked. The frogs died in the houses,
in the courts, and in the fields, and the people gathered them together in many heaps; and
the land was filled with a vile odor. But when Pharaoh saw that relief had come, he was stubborn
and, as Jehovah had said, did not listen to Moses and Aaron.

Then Jehovah said to Moses, "Get up early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh, just as
he goes out to the water, and say to him, 'Jehovah commands: Let my people go that they may
worship me. But at that time I will set apart the land of Goshen in which my people live, and
no swarms of flies shall be there, so that you may know that I, Jehovah, am in the midst of
the earth.'" Pray for me."

So Moses went out from Pharaoh and prayed to Jehovah. And Jehovah did as Moses asked; but this
time also Pharaoh was stubborn and would not let the people go.

Then Jehovah said to Moses, "Go to Pharaoh and tell him, 'Jehovah the God of the Hebrews commands:
Let my people go that they may worship me. For if you refuse to let them go and still hold
them, then the power of Jehovah will bring a very severe pest upon your cattle which are in
the field, upon the horses, the asses, the camels, the herds, and the flocks. But Jehovah will
make a difference between the cattle of Israel and the cattle of Egypt, and not one that belongs
to the Israelites shall die.'"

So Jehovah set a fixed time, saying, "To-morrow Jehovah will do this in the land." Jehovah
did this on the next day, and all the cattle of the Egyptians died; but none of the cattle
of the Israelites. Then Pharaoh sent and found that not even one of the cattle of the Israelites
was dead; but Pharaoh was stubborn and would not let the people go.

Then Jehovah said to Moses, "Get up early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh, and say
to him,'Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, commands: Let my people go, that they may worship
me. Do you still set yourself against my people, so that you will not let them go? To-morrow
about this time I will send down a very heavy fall of hail, such as has not been in Egypt from
the day that it became a nation until now.'"

So Jehovah sent down hail upon the land of Egypt, and the lightning flashing in the midst of
the hail was very severe, such as had not been before in all Egypt since it became a nation.
Through the whole land of Egypt the hail struck down everything that was in the field, both
man and beast. The hail also struck down all the growing plants and broke all the trees in
the fields.

So Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh, and said to him, "Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, commands:
'How long will you refuse to obey me? Let my people go that they may worship me. For if you
refuse to let my people go, then to-morrow I will bring locusts into your land, and they will
cover the surface of the earth, so that no one will be able to see the ground, and they shall
eat the rest of that which is left to you from the hail, and they shall eat all your trees
which grow in the field.'" For they covered the surface of the whole land, so that the land
was darkened and nothing green was left, neither tree nor growing plants, anywhere in all the
land of Egypt.

Then Pharaoh called for Moses in haste and said, "I have sinned against Jehovah your God and
against you. Now therefore forgive my sin only this once, and pray to Jehovah your God to take
away from me this deadly plague." So Moses went out from Pharaoh and prayed to Jehovah, and
Jehovah made a very strong west wind to blow which took up the locusts and drove them into
the Red Sea; not a single locust was left in all the land of Egypt. But Jehovah let Pharaoh's
heart remain stubborn, so that he would not let the Israelites go.

Then Jehovah said to Moses, "Stretch out your hand toward heaven, that there may be darkness
over the land of Egypt, so dark that it may be felt." So Moses stretched out his hand toward
heaven; and there was complete darkness in all the land of Egypt for three days; no one could
see another, nor did any one move about for three days. But the Israelites had light in their
homes.

Then Pharaoh called Moses and said, "Go, worship Jehovah; only let your flocks and your herds
stay behind; let your little ones go with you." But Moses said, "You must also give us animals
for sacrifices and burnt-offerings, that we may offer a sacrifice to Jehovah our God. Our cattle
too must go with us; not a hoof shall be left behind, for we must take these to offer to Jehovah
our God, and we do not know what we must offer to Jehovah until we arrive there."

But Jehovah let Pharaoh's heart remain stubborn, and he would not let them go. And Pharaoh
said to him, "Go away from me; take care that you never come to me again; for on the day that
you come to me you shall die." Moses replied, "You have spoken truly, I shall never see you again."

Moses said to Pharaoh, "Jehovah declares: 'About midnight I will go through all of Egypt. All
the eldest sons in the land of Egypt shall die, from the eldest son of Pharaoh who sits upon
his throne, even to the eldest son of the slave girl who is behind the mill, and all the first-born
of the cattle. There shall be a great cry of sorrow all over the land of Egypt, such as has
never been before and never shall be again.' But not a single dog shall bark at any of the
Israelites nor their animals, that you may know that Jehovah does make a difference between
the Egyptians and Israelites. All these your servants shall come to me and bow down before
me, saying, 'Go away, together with all the people that follow you.' After that I will go away."
And Moses went from Pharaoh in great anger.

THE ESCAPE FROM EGYPT

Moses called together all the leaders of Israel, and said to them, "Take lambs from the herds
according to your families and kill the passover lamb. And not one of you shall go out of the
door of his house until morning, for Jehovah will pass through to kill the Egyptians, and when
he sees the blood upon the lintel and on the two door posts, he will pass over the door and
will not let the destroyer come into your houses to destroy you. You and your children shall
observe this event as a custom forever.

"When your children shall say to you, 'What do you mean by this service?' you shall say, 'It
is the sacrifice of the passover of Jehovah, for he passed over the houses of the Israelites
in Egypt, when he destroyed the Egyptians and released our people.'"

Then the people bowed their heads and worshipped; and the Israelites went and did as Jehovah
had commanded Moses and Aaron.

At midnight Jehovah destroyed all the eldest sons in the land of Egypt, from the eldest son
of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the eldest son of the captive who was in prison. Then Pharaoh
arose in the night, together with all his servants and all the Egyptians, and there was a great
cry of sorrow, for there was not a house in Egypt in which there was not one dead. Pharaoh
called Moses and Aaron at night and said, "Go away from among my people, both you and the Israelites;
go, worship Jehovah as you have asked. Also take with you your sheep and your cattle, as you
have asked, go and ask a blessing for me also." The Egyptians also told the people to hasten
out of the land, for they said, "We shall all perish." So the people took their dough before
the yeast had worked, and their kneading-troughs were bound up in their clothes upon their
shoulders.

The Israelites went on foot from Rameses to Succoth; and a mixed multitude went with them,
and they had a great many flocks and herds. They baked unraised cakes of the dough which they
had brought with them from Egypt, for there was no yeast in it, because they had been driven
out of Egypt and could not wait, neither had they prepared for themselves any food for the journey.

And they went from Succoth and camped at Etham on the border of the wilderness.

When the king of Egypt was told that the people had fled, the feeling of Pharaoh and his servants
toward them was changed, and they said, "Why have we done this and let the Israelites escape
from serving us?" So he made ready his chariot and took his people with him. He also took six
hundred chosen chariots and the rest of the chariots of Egypt with captains over all of them;
and Jehovah let the heart of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, remain stubborn, so that he followed the
Israelites, because they had defied him.

When Pharaoh drew near to them the Israelites looked up and saw the Egyptians marching after
them; and they were very much afraid and cried to Jehovah. And they said to Moses, "Why have
you misled us by bringing us out of Egypt? Jehovah will fight for you, and you are to keep still."

Then the angel of God who went before the army of Israel changed his position and went behind
them. The pillar of cloud also changed its position from in front of them and stood behind
them, coming between the army of the Egyptians and the army of the Israelites. On the one side
the cloud was dark and on the other side it lighted up the night, so that throughout all the
night neither army came near the other.

Then Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and Jehovah by means of a strong east wind
caused the sea to go back all that night and made the bed of the sea dry. And the Israelites
crossed over on the dry bed of the sea. The Egyptians followed and all of Pharaoh's horses,
his chariots, and his horsemen went after them into the sea. In the morning before sunrise,
Jehovah looked out through the pillar of fire and of cloud upon the army of the Egyptians and
threw them into confusion. He also bound their chariot wheels, so that they dragged heavily.
Therefore the Egyptians said, "Let us flee from the Israelites, for Jehovah fights for them
against us." Thus Jehovah saved the Israelites that day from the power of the Egyptians; and
they saw the Egyptians dead upon the seashore. When the Israelites saw the great work which
Jehovah did to the Egyptians, the people feared Jehovah and believed in him and in his servant
Moses.

Then Moses and the Israelites sang this song to Jehovah:

        "I will sing to Jehovah, for he has triumphed gloriously:
         Both horse and rider he has hurled into the sea.
         Jehovah is my strength and song, he has delivered me;
         He is my God, I will praise him; my father's God whom I honor."

GOD'S COMMANDS TO THE PEOPLE

Moses led the Israelites forward from the Red Sea until they came to the wilderness of Sinai,
and there the Israelites camped before the mountain.

Moses went up into the presence of God, and Jehovah called to him from the mountain and said,
"Tell the Israelites: 'You have seen what I did to the Egyptians and how I bore you on eagles'
wings and brought you to myself. Now therefore, if you will listen to my voice and keep your
solemn agreement with me, you shall be my own treasure taken from among all peoples, for all
the earth is mine. You shall be a nation of priests, a people devoted to my service.'"

So Moses called together the leaders of the people and told them all these words, as Jehovah
had commanded him. And all the people answered together, "We will do all that Jehovah has commanded."

When Moses told Jehovah the answer of the people, Jehovah said to him, "See, I come to you
in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak and may always believe in you." And
Jehovah said to Moses, "Go to the people and keep them pure to-day and to-morrow, and let them
wash their garments and be ready on the third day, for on the third day I will come down on
Mount Sinai within sight of all the people."

On the third day, when morning came, there were thunderings and lightnings and a thick cloud
rested upon the mountain, and a very loud trumpet blast sounded, so that all the people who
were in the camp trembled. Then Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet God; and they
stood at the foot of the mountain. Mount Sinai was entirely covered with smoke, because Jehovah
came down upon it in fire. And from it smoke went up like the smoke of a furnace, and the entire
mountain shook violently.

Then God spoke all these words: "I am Jehovah your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt,
from a place where you were slaves.

"THOU SHALT HAVE NO OTHER GODS EXCEPT ME.

"THOU SHALT NOT MAKE FOR THYSELF A GRAVEN IMAGE, nor any image of anything that is in the heavens
above, on the earth beneath, or in the waters that are under the earth.

Then Jehovah said to Moses, "Write down these words, for in accord with these words I have
made a solemn agreement with you and with Israel."

OUR DUTIES TO GOD AND MAN

Hear O Israel: Jehovah our God is the one Lord. You shall love Jehovah your God with all your
heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength.

Behold, the heavens, the highest heavens, the earth and all that is on it belong to Jehovah
your God. Jehovah showed his love to your fathers more than to any other people, and he has
chosen their children after them and you out of all the nations. Therefore, open your heart
to him and no longer refuse to be guided by him. Love Jehovah your God and always keep his
laws and his commands.

You shall not deceive one another.

You shall not lie to one another.

You shall not swear falsely in my name.

You shall not wrong nor rob your neighbor.

You shall not tell stories about one another.

You shall not hate any one.

You shall not take vengeance nor bear a grudge against any one.

You shall love your neighbor as yourself.

You shall rise before the hoary head and honor an old man.

If a foreigner lives in your land, you shall do him no wrong. You shall treat him as one of
your own people and you shall love him as yourself.

THE REPORT OF THE HEBREW SPIES

Moses sent certain men to explore the land of Canaan and said to them, "Go up into the South
Country and on into the highlands, and see what the land is and whether the people who live
there are strong or weak, whether they are few or many, and whether the land in which they
live is good or bad, and what kinds of cities they live in, whether in camps or in strongholds.
See whether the land is fertile or barren, whether there is wood in it or not. Be courageous
and bring some of the fruit of the land," for it was the time when the grapes first begin to ripen.

So they went up to the South Country and came to Hebron. They also took some pomegranates and
figs. That place was called the valley of the Grape Cluster because of the cluster which the
Israelites cut down there.

Then they returned to Moses and Aaron and all the Israelites at Kadesh and brought back word
to them and showed them the fruit of the land. They reported to Moses, "We went to the land
to which you sent us; and it indeed is full of milk and honey; and this is some of its fruit.
But the people who live in the land are strong, and the cities are very large and have high
walls about them."

Then Caleb quieted the people and said, "Let us go up at once and take it, for we are well
able to conquer it." But the men who had gone up with him said, "We are not able to conquer
the people, for they are stronger than we, and all the people whom we saw there are very tall
and large. There we saw the giants; we were as grasshoppers in our own sight, and so we seemed
to them."

All the people wept that night and cried out, "Why did Jehovah bring us to this land to fall
by the sword? Our wives and our little ones will be taken captive. Would it not be better for
us to return to Egypt?" So they said to one another, "Let us choose a leader and return to Egypt."

Then Moses and Aaron bowed low before all the Israelites who were gathered there, and Joshua
and Caleb, who were among those who explored the land, tore their clothes and said to them,
"The land which we went to explore is a very good land. If Jehovah is pleased with us, he will
bring us into this land and give it to us, a land which is full of milk and honey. Only do
not rebel against Jehovah. Fear not the people of the land, for they will supply us with food.
Their defense is taken away from over them, and Jehovah is with us; fear them not." But the
people would not trust Jehovah.

Then Jehovah said to Moses, "How long will this people despise me? How long will they refuse
to trust me in spite of all of the wonders which I have performed before their eyes? I will
send sickness upon them and destroy them, and I will make you and your family a nation greater
and mightier than theirs."

But Moses said to Jehovah, "When the Egyptians hear it, they will say, 'Jehovah has killed
them in the wilderness because he was not able to bring this people into the land which he
solemnly promised to them.' Forgive, I pray thee, the guilt of this people, because thy love
is great, even as thou hast forgiven them from the time they left Egypt even until now."

Jehovah said, "I have forgiven as you have asked; but as surely as I live and as surely as
the whole earth shall be filled with the glory of Jehovah, none of the men who have seen my
glory and my wonders which I performed in Egypt and in the wilderness, and yet have tested
me these ten times and have not listened to my voice, shall see the land which I have solemnly
promised to their fathers, neither shall any of those who despise me see it. But I will bring
my servant Caleb to the land to which he went, for he has shown a different spirit and has
faithfully followed me, and his children shall possess it. But your little ones, who, you said,
would be captives of war, I will bring in, and they shall possess the land which you have refused.

THE LAST WORDS OF MOSES

When Moses was old, he said to all the Israelites, "I am a hundred and twenty years old this
day. I can no longer go out and come in, and Jehovah has said to me, 'You shall not go over
this river Jordan.' Jehovah your God is going over before you. He will destroy these nations
before you, and you shall drive them out; and Joshua is going over to lead you as Jehovah has
commanded. Be brave and strong, do not be afraid of them, for Jehovah your God is leading you;
he will not fail you nor forsake you."

Moses also called Joshua and said to him in the presence of all Israel, "Be brave and strong,
for you shall bring this people into the land which Jehovah has promised to their fathers to
give them; and you shall give it to them. Jehovah is going before you; he will be with you,
he will not fail nor forsake you; fear not, nor be frightened."

Then Moses went up on the plains of Moab to Mount Nebo to the summit of Pisgah opposite Jericho.
And Jehovah showed him all the land, and said to him, "This is the land which I have solemnly
promised to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, 'I will give it to your children.' I have
let you see it with your own eyes, but you shall not go over there."

So Moses, the servant of Jehovah, died there in the land of Moab as Jehovah had said. And Jehovah
buried him in the deep valley in the land of Moab; but to this day no man knows the place where
he was buried. But in Israel no prophet had yet arisen whom Jehovah knew as well as he did
Moses. As long as you live no one will be able to stand against you. As I was with Moses, so
I shall be with you: I will not fail you nor forsake you. Be brave and strong, for you shall
give this people the land which I solemnly promised their fathers I would give them. Only be
brave and strong to keep faithfully all the law, as Moses my servant commanded you. Turn not
from it to the right nor to the left, and you shall have success wherever you go. Have I not
commanded you? Be brave and strong; fear not nor be afraid, for Jehovah your God is with you
wherever you go."

Then Joshua gave this order to the officers who were over the people: "Go through all the camp
and give this command: 'Prepare food for yourselves, for within three days you are to cross
this Jordan, to go in and take the land which Jehovah your God has given you as your own.'"

While Joshua was at Shittim, he secretly sent two men as spies, with the command: "Go, explore
the land and especially Jericho." So they went and entered the house of a woman named Rahab,
and stayed there.

Now the woman had taken the two men and hidden them; so she said, "It is true, some men came
to me, but I did not know where they came from. When the time came to shut the gate at night,
the men went out and I do not know where they have gone. Follow after them quickly, for you
may overtake them." She, however, had brought them up to the roof and hidden them with the
stalks of flax which she had spread out there. So the men of Jericho followed after them in
the direction of the fords of the Jordan; and as soon as the men of Jericho had gone out, the
gate was closed.

The spies had hardly lain down when Rahab came up to them on the roof and said, "I know that
Jehovah has given you the land and that fear of you has seized us and that because of you all
who live in the land are losing heart. Now therefore swear to me by Jehovah, since I have treated
you with kindness, that you will also treat my family kindly, and promise me that you will
save the lives of my father, my mother, my brothers, and my sisters, together with all that
they have, and will not put us to death." The men said to her, "We are ready to give our lives
for you, if you do not tell what we are doing; and when Jehovah gives us the land, we will
treat you kindly and faithfully."

Then she let them down by a rope through the window, for the house in which she lived was built
into the city wall. She said to them, "Go into the hills, that the men who are looking for
you may not find you, and hide yourselves there three days until they have returned. Then you
may go on your way."

The men said to her, "We shall be free from our solemn promise to you, unless, when we come
into the land, you bind this cord of scarlet thread in the window through which you let us
down and gather your father, your mother, your brothers, and all your family into your house.
If any one goes out of the doors of your house into the street, he shall be responsible for
his death and we shall be innocent. If any one stays with you in the house, we will be responsible
for his death if any one lays hands on him. But if you tell what we are doing, we shall be
free from our solemn promise to you." She replied, "It shall be as you say." So she sent them
away. And when they were gone, she bound the scarlet cord in the window.

So they left and went into the hills and stayed there three days until those who were looking
for them had returned. They sought for them in every direction but did not find them. Then
the two men came down from the hills, crossed the river, and came to Joshua and told him all
that had happened to them.

Joshua rose up early in the morning and set out from Shittim. And he and all the Israelites
came to the Jordan and spent the night there before crossing. And Joshua said to the people,
"Consecrate yourselves, for to-morrow Jehovah will do wonders among you. Come and hear the
words of Jehovah your God. By this you shall know that a living God is with you: the ark of
the Lord of all the earth is about to pass over before you into the Jordan. When the priests
who bear the ark of the Lord of all the earth step into the waters of the Jordan, its waters
shall be cut off, so that the waters that come down from above will stand still in a heap."

So when the people left their tents to pass over the Jordan, the priests, who were carrying
the ark were in front of them. And when the bearers of the ark came to the Jordan, and the
feet of the priests who were carrying the ark dipped in the brink of the water--for the Jordan
overflows all its banks during the harvest time--the waters that came down from above stood
still and its waters rose in a heap a long distance up the river at Adam, the city that is
near Zarethan. The waters that went down toward the Dead Sea were wholly cut off, while the
people crossed over opposite Jericho. Then when your children ask from time to time: 'What
do these stones mean to you?' you shall say to them, 'They are reminders that the waters of
the Jordan were cut off before the ark of Jehovah, when it passed over the Jordan.' These stones
shall be a constant reminder to the Israelites."

So the Israelites did as Joshua commanded and took up out of the middle of the Jordan twelve
stones corresponding to the number of the tribes of the Israelites. They carried them over
with them to the place where they camped and laid them down there.

Then the waters of the Jordan returned to their place and the river overflowed all its banks
as before.

THE CAPTURE OF JERICHO AND AI

Now Jericho had closed its gates because of the Israelites, and no one went in or out. But
Jehovah said to Joshua, "See, I have given Jericho to you with its king and its able warriors.
You shall march around the city, all the soldiers going about the city once. You shall do this
for six days, and on the seventh day the people shall make the attack, each man going up straight
before him."

Then Joshua said to the people, "March around the city and let the armed men pass on before
the ark of Jehovah. You shall not shout the battle-cry nor let your voice be heard; not a word
shall escape from your mouth until the day I say to you, 'Shout the battle-cry'; then you shall
shout!"

So he had the ark of Jehovah carried around the city once; then they returned to the camp and
spent the night there. The seventh day they rose early at dawn and made the circuit of the
city in the same way, only on that day they marched about the city seven times. The city and
all that is in it shall be sacrificed to Jehovah; only Rahab and those who are with her in
her house shall live, because she hid the messengers whom we sent."

So the people shouted the battle-cry and the wall fell down and they went straight up into
the city and captured it. But Joshua spared the lives of Rahab and her father's family and
all that she had, because she hid the messengers whom Joshua sent to explore Jericho; and they
have lived among the Israelites even to this day.

Then Joshua set out with all the warriors to go up to Ai. And he selected thirty thousand brave
soldiers and sent them out at night with this command, "Hide somewhere beyond the town, not
very far from it, but be ready to act. I and all the people who are with me will go toward
the town, but when they come out against us, we will flee before them. They will come out after
us, until we have drawn them away from the town; for they will say, 'They are fleeing before
us.' Then you shall rise up from where you are hiding, and take the town. When you have captured
it, set it on fire."

So Joshua sent them out, and they went to the place where they were to hide and placed themselves
on the west side of Ai. Joshua spent that night among the people, and rose early the next morning
and gathered them, and he went up, together with the rulers of Israel, before the people to
Ai. And the warriors who were with him went up and came before the town. When the king of Ai
saw it, the men of the town quickly rose up and went out to fight against the Israelites, but
the king did not know that men were hiding behind the town to rise up and attack him.

Then Joshua and the Israelites pretended to be beaten and fled toward the wilderness; and all
the people that were in the town were called together to pursue them. So they left the town
unguarded and pursued the Israelites. Then the men who were hiding rose quickly out of their
place and set the town on fire. When the men of Ai looked back, they saw the smoke of the town
rising to heaven; and they had no chance to flee this way or that, for the Israelites who had
been fleeing to the wilderness turned back upon those who were following them. When the smoke
of the town rose up, the rest of the Israelites came out of the town against them; so they
were surrounded by the Israelites, some on this side, and some on that, so that they let none
of the people of Ai remain or escape.

WOMEN WHO SAVED A NATION

Later Sisera, who had nine hundred iron chariots, cruelly oppressed the Israelites for twenty
years. Then the prophetess Deborah, the wife of Lappidoth, delivered Israel. She used to sit
under the palm-tree of Deborah between Ramah and Bethel in the highlands of Ephraim; and the
Israelites went to her to have her decide their disputes.

She sent and called Barak, the son of Abinoam, from Kadesh Naphtali and said to him, "Does
not Jehovah the God of Israel command you: 'Go, march to Mount Tabor and take with you ten
thousand of the Naphtalites and of the Zebulunites? Then I will draw out to you at the brook
Kishon Sisera with his chariots and his troops, and I will deliver him into your hands.'" Barak
said to her, "If you will go with me, I will go, but if you will not go with me, I will not
go." She replied, "I will certainly go with you, only you will not have the glory in this expedition
on which you are going, for Jehovah will deliver Sisera into the hands of a woman."

So Deborah arose and went with Barak to Kadesh. Barak called the Zebulunites and the Naphtalites
together at Kadesh and ten thousand men followed him; and Deborah also went up with him.

Now Heber the Kenite had left the Kenites, the children of Jethro the father-in-law of Moses,
and had pitched his tent as far away as the oak which is near Kadesh. Then Deborah said to
Barak, "To the attack! for to-day Jehovah has delivered Sisera into your hands. Has not Jehovah
gone out before you?" But Barak pursued the chariots and the forces to Harosheth; and all the
army of Sisera was destroyed by the sword; not a single man was left.

On that day Deborah and Barak, the son of Abinoam, sang this song:

        "O Jehovah, when thou wentest from Seir,
         Marching from the region of Edom,
         Earth trembled, the heavens swayed,
         The clouds also dripped water;
         The hills quaked before Jehovah,
         Yon Sinai, before Israel's God.

        "In the days of Anath's son, Shamgar,
         In Jael's days the roads were unused,
         And travellers walked through byways.
         Leaders disappeared in Israel,
         Until you, O Deborah, rose,
         Till you rose as a mother in Israel.

        "My heart is with the commanders of Israel,
         Who volunteered among the people. Bless Jehovah!
         You who ride on tawny asses,
         Who sit upon rich saddle-cloths;
         You who walk by the way, tell of it.
         Far from sounds of dividing the spoil,
         In the places where water is drawn,
         Let them tell of Jehovah's righteous acts,
         And the righteous deeds of his leaders!

        "Then the people of Jehovah
         Went down to the gates, crying:
         'Awake, awake, O Deborah,
         Awake, awake, sing a battle-song!
         Rise up, rise up, O Barak,
         Take your captives, O son of Abinoam!'

        "So they went down against the powerful,
         The Lord's people against the mighty.
         From Machir, commanders went down,
         From Zebulun, standard-bearers,
         Issachar's princes with Deborah,
         And with Barak, the men of Naphtali;
         Into the valley they streamed after him.

        "Zebulun risked its life,
         Naphtali on the heights of the field.
         Rulers came, they fought,
         The rulers of Canaan fought
         At Taanach by the waters of Megiddo.

        "They took no booty of silver,
         For from heaven the very stars fought,
         From their courses they fought against Sisera.

        "Blessed above women shall Jael be,
         That wife of Heber, the Kenite,
         More blessed than all nomad women!
         Water he asked, milk she gave,
         Curdled milk she brought him
         In a bowl well fitted for lords!
         She put her hand to the tent-pin,
         Her right hand to the workman's hammer.
         She struck Sisera, crushing his head,
         She shattered, she pierced his temples.
         At her feet he sank down and lay still,
         At her feet he sank, he fell;
         There he fell, a victim slain!

        "Through the window she peered and cried,
         Through the lattice, the mother of Sisera:
         'Why so long his chariot in coming?
         Why tarry the hoof-beats of steeds?'
         Then the wisest of her ladies replied,
         She herself also answered her question,
         'Are they not dividing the spoil?
         A woman or two for each warrior,
         For Sisera a spoil of dyed stuffs,
         A spoil of dyed stuffs embroidered,
         Some pieces of lace for his neck?'

        "So perish thy foes, O Jehovah!
         But may those who love him be as the sun,
         Rising up in invincible splendor!"

GIDEON'S BRAVE BAND

In course of time the Midianites conquered the Israelites. To escape them the Israelites made
for themselves dens in the mountains and caves and strongholds. When the Israelites had sown
their crops, the Midianites would come up and leave nothing for the Israelites to live on,
neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass; for they came up with their cattle and their tents. The Israelites
were so robbed by the Midianites, that they cried to Jehovah for help.

Then the angel of Jehovah came and sat down under the oak which was in Ophrah that belonged
to Joash the Abiezerite; and his son, Gideon, was beating out wheat in the wine-press to hide
it from the Midianites. The angel of Jehovah appeared to him and said, "Jehovah is with you,
able warrior!" Gideon said to him, "O my lord, if Jehovah is with us, why then has all this
overtaken us? Where are all his wonderful acts of which our fathers told us, saying, 'Did not
Jehovah bring us from Egypt?' But now Jehovah has cast us off and given us into the power of
the Midianites."

Then Jehovah turned to him and said, "With this strength which you have go and save Israel
from the rule of the Midianites: do I not send you?" But Gideon said to him, "O Jehovah, how
can I save Israel? See, my family is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's
house." Jehovah said to him, "I will surely be with you, and you shall overthrow the Midianites
as if they were only one man."

Then the spirit of Jehovah took possession of Gideon, and he sounded the war trumpet, and the
Abiezerites assembled under his leadership. He also sent messengers throughout all the land
of the Manassites, and they assembled under his leadership; and he sent messengers to the Asherites,
the Zebulunites, and the Naphtalites, and they went up to join him. But Jehovah said to Gideon,
"You have too many people with you; if I give the Midianites up to the Israelites they will
boast, 'We have saved ourselves!' Therefore, proclaim to your people, 'Whoever is afraid may
go home.'"

Then Gideon separated them, so that twenty-two thousand of the people went back home, but ten
thousand stayed. But Jehovah said to him, "The people are still too many; take them down to
the water, and I will try them out for you there. Every one of whom I say to you, 'This one
shall go with you,' shall go with you; and every one of whom I say to you, 'This one shall
not go with you,' shall not go."

So Gideon brought the people down to the water. And Jehovah said to him, "You shall put by
themselves all who lap the water with their tongues, as a dog laps, and all who kneel down
on their knees to drink by themselves." Let all the rest of the people go home." So they took
the food that the people had in their hands, and their trumpets; and Gideon sent home all the
other Israelites, keeping only the three hundred men. But the rulers of Succoth said, "Are
Zebah and Zalmunna already in your power that we should give bread to your band?" Gideon replied,
"When Jehovah has delivered Zebah and Zalmunna into my power, for this insult I will thrash
your bare flesh with desert thorns and briers." He went on from there to Penuel and made the
same request of the men of Penuel, but they made the same answer as the men of Succoth. To
the men of Penuel he also said, "When I come back victorious, I will break down this tower."

Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their forces were with them, in all about fifteen thousand
men. Gideon went up by the caravan road and surprised the horde as it was encamped with no
fear of being attacked. He divided the three hundred men into three companies. Into the hands
of all of them he put horns and empty earthen jars. In each jar was a torch. He also said to
them, "Watch me and do as I do. When I reach the outside of the camp and those who are with
me blow a blast on the horn, then you also shall blow your horns on every side of the camp
and cry, 'For Jehovah and Gideon!'"

So Gideon and the hundred men with him reached the outside of the camp at the beginning of
the middle watch, when guards had just been posted; and they blew the horns and broke in pieces
the jars that were in their hands. The two other companies also broke their jars, took the
torches in their left hands and their swords in their right, and cried, "The Sword of Jehovah
and of Gideon." And as they stood where they were, about the camp, the entire horde awoke,
sounded the alarm, and fled. Zebah and Zalmunna also fled; but Gideon followed and captured
the two kings of Midian and threw all the horde into a panic.

When Gideon returned from the battle, he captured a young man who lived at Succoth. At Gideon's
request he wrote down for him the names of the rulers of Succoth and its leading men. There
were seventy-seven in all. When Gideon came to the men of Succoth, he said, "See, here are
Zebah and Zalmunna about whom you mocked me, saying, 'Are Zebah and Zalmunna already in your
power that we should give bread to your men who are weary?'" Then he took desert thorns and
briers, and with these he thrashed the leading men of Succoth. He also broke down the tower
of Penuel and put to death the men of the town.

Then Gideon said to Zebah and Zalmunna, "What kind of men were those whom you killed at Tabor?"
They replied, "They were just like you; each of them looked like a prince." Gideon said, "They
were my own brothers, the sons of my mother. As surely as Jehovah lives, if you had saved them
alive, I would not kill you now."

Then he said to Jether, his oldest son, "Up and kill them." But the boy did not draw his sword,
because he was afraid, for he was only a boy. Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, "Get up yourself
and fall upon us; for a man has a man's strength!" Gideon said to them, "I will not rule over
you, nor shall my son rule over you; Jehovah shall rule over you; but let me make one request
of you: let every man give me the ear-rings from his spoil" (for they had golden ear-rings,
because they were desert dwellers). They answered, "Certainly, we will give them." So they
spread out a blanket and each man threw into it the ear-rings from his spoil. The weight of
the golden ear-rings for which he had asked was nearly seventy pounds of gold. Then Gideon
made of the gold a priestly robe to wear when asking questions of Jehovah, and placed it in
his own city, Ophrah.

JEPHTHAH'S FOOLISH PROMISE

Jephthah, the Gileadite, was an able warrior, but he was the son of a wicked woman, and had
fled from his relatives and lived in the land of Tob. There certain rascals gathered about
him, and they used to go out on raids with him.

After a time the Ammonites made war against the Israelites. Then the elders of Gilead went
to bring Jephthah from the land of Tob, and they said to him, "Come and be our commander, that
we may fight against the Ammonites." But Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, "Are you not
the men who hated me and drove me out of my father's house? Why then do you come to me now
when you are in trouble?" But the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, "This is why we have now
turned to you, that you may go with us and fight against the Ammonites, and you shall be our
chief, even over all the people who live in Gilead." Then Jephthah said to the rulers of Gilead,
"If you take me back to fight against the Ammonites and Jehovah gives me the victory over them,
I shall be your chief." The elders of Gilead replied, "Jehovah shall be a witness between us;
we swear to do as you say."

Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him chief and commander over
them. Jephthah also made this vow to Jehovah: "If thou wilt deliver the Ammonites into my power,
then whoever comes out of the door of my house to meet me, when I return victorious from the
Ammonites, shall be Jehovah's, and I will offer that one as an offering to be burned with fire."

So Jephthah went out to fight against the Ammonites; and Jehovah gave him the victory over
them, and delivered them into his hands. But when he came home to Mizpah, his daughter was
just coming out to meet him with tambourines and choral dances. She was his only child; besides
this one he had neither son nor daughter. So when he saw her, he tore his clothes and said,
"Oh, my daughter, you have stricken me! It is you who are the cause of my woe! for I have made
a solemn vow to Jehovah and cannot break it." She said to him, "My father, you have made a
solemn vow to Jehovah; do to me what you have promised, since Jehovah has punished your enemies
the Ammonites. But let this favor be granted me: spare me two months that I may go out upon
the mountains with those who would have been my bridesmaids and lament because I will never
become a wife and mother." He said, "Go."

So he sent her away for two months with her friends, and she mourned on the mountains because
she would never become a wife and mother. At the end of two months she returned to her father,
who did what he had vowed to do, even though she had never been married. So it became a custom
in Israel: each year the women of Israel go out for four days to bewail the death of the daughter
of Jephthah, the Gileadite.

SAMSON WHO DID TO OTHERS AS THEY DID TO HIM

There was a certain man of Zorah, of the clan of the Danites, named Manoah; and he and his
wife had no children. No razor shall be used upon your son's head, for from birth the boy shall
belong to God." So the woman had a son and named him Samson.

Once Samson went down to Timnah and saw there a Philistine woman. When he came back he said
to his father and mother, "I have seen a Philistine woman in Timnah. Get her as a wife for
me." But his father and mother said to him, "Is there no woman in your own tribe or among all
our people, that you must marry a wife from among the heathen Philistines?" But Samson said
to his father, "Get her for me, for she suits me." The spirit of Jehovah came upon Samson and,
although he had nothing in his hand, he tore the beast in two as one tears a kid. But he did
not tell his father and mother what he had done.

Then he went down and talked with the woman, and she suited him. When he returned after a while
to marry her, he turned aside to see what was left of the lion, and there was a swarm of bees
and honey in the carcass.

Then Samson went down to the woman; and he gave a feast there (for so bridegrooms used to do).
When the Philistines saw him, they provided thirty comrades to be with him. And Samson said
to them, "Let me now tell you a riddle. They said to him, "Tell your riddle, that we may hear
it." And he said to them:

        "Out of the eater came something to eat,
         And out of the strong came something sweet."

But for six days they could not solve the riddle.

On the seventh day they said to Samson's wife, "Tease your husband until he tells us the riddle,
or else we will burn up you and your father's house. Did you invite us here to make us poor?"
So Samson's wife wept before him and said, "You only hate me and do not love me at all! You
have told a riddle to my fellow countrymen and not told me what it is." He said to her, "See,
I have not told it to my father or my mother, and shall I tell you?" So she wept before him
as long as their feast lasted, but on the seventh day he told her, because she kept asking
him; and she told the riddle to her fellow countrymen. And he said to them:

        "If with my heifer you did not plough,
         You had not solved my riddle now."

Then he was suddenly given divine strength, and he went down to Ashkelon and killed thirty
of their men and took the spoil from them and gave the suits of clothes to those who had guessed
the riddle. But he was very angry and returned to his father's house. And his bride was given
to his comrade who had been his best man.

After a while, at the time of wheat harvest, Samson went to visit his wife with a kid as a
present; but when he said, "Let me go into the inner room to my wife," her father would not
let him go in, but said, "I thought that you must surely hate her, so I gave her to your best
man. Is not her younger sister fairer than she? Take her then, instead." But Samson said to
him, "This time I shall be justified if I do the Philistines an injury." So he went and caught
three hundred foxes, turned them tail to tail, and put a torch between every pair of tails.
When he had set the torches on fire, he let them go into the standing grain of the Philistines
and burned up not only the shocks and the standing grain, but the olive orchards as well.

Then the Philistines said, "Who has done this?" The reply was, "Samson, the son-in-law of the
Timnite, because that man took Samson's wife and gave her to his best man." So the Philistines
went up, and burnt her and her father. Then Samson said to them, "If this is the way you do,
I will not stop until I have had my revenge on you!" So he fought fiercely and killed many
of them; then he went and stayed in a cavern in the cliff of Etam.

When the Philistines went up and camped in Judah and made a raid on Lehi, the Judahites said,
"Why have you come up against us?" They replied, "We have come up to bind Samson, to do to
him what he has done to us." Then three thousand men of Judah went down to the cavern in the
cliff of Etam and said to Samson, "Do you not know that the Philistines are our rulers? What
are you doing to us?" He replied, "I have done to them as they did to me." They said to him,
"We have come down to bind you, to turn you over to the Philistines." Samson said to them,
"Swear to me that you will not attack me yourselves." They said to him, "No; we will simply
bind you securely and deliver you to them; but we will not kill you." So they bound him with
two new ropes, and brought him up from the cliff.

When he came to Lehi, the Philistines shouted when they met him. Then he was suddenly given
divine strength, and the ropes that were on his arms became like flax that has been burned
in the fire, and his bonds melted from his hands. And he found a fresh jaw-bone of an ass,
and having seized it, he killed a thousand men with it. Then Samson said:

        "With the jaw-bone of an ass have I piled them, mass on mass;
         A thousand warriors have I slain with the jaw-bone of an ass."

A STRONG MAN WHO LOST HIS STRENGTH

Afterward, Samson fell in love with a woman in the valley of Sorek, named Delilah. Then the
rulers of the Philistines came to her and said, "Find out by teasing him how it is that his
strength is so great and how we may overpower and bind him that we may torture him. Samson
said to her, "If they should bind me with seven green bowstrings which have not been dried,
I would become weak like any other man."

Then the rulers of the Philistines brought her seven green bowstrings which had not been dried,
and she bound him with them. She had the men lying in wait in the inner room, but when she
said to him, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" he snapped the bowstrings as a piece of
yarn is snapped when it comes near the fire; so they did not find out the secret of his strength.

Then Delilah said to Samson, "You have deceived me and lied to me; now tell me with what you
can be bound fast." Men were also lying in wait in the inner room; but he snapped the ropes
from his arms like thread.

Again Delilah said to Samson, "So far you have deceived me and lied to me; tell me now with
what you can be bound fast." He said to her, "If you should weave the seven braids on my head
along with the web and beat it into form with the weaving pin, I would become weak like any
other man." So while he was asleep, she took the seven braids of his hair and wove it with
the web and beat it into form with the pin, and said to him, "The Philistines are upon you,
Samson!" But he awoke out of his sleep and pulled up the loom and the web.

Then she said to him, "How can you say, 'I love you,' when you do not trust me? You have deceived
me three times already and have not told me the secret of your great strength." But in time,
since she daily begged and urged him, he was wearied to death, and told her all that he knew,
saying, "A razor has never touched my head; for I have belonged to God from my birth. Then
the rulers of the Philistines came up to her and brought the money with them. After she had
put Samson to sleep on her knees, she called for a man and had him shave off the seven braids
on his head. Then she began to tease him, and his strength went from him; and she said, "The
Philistines are upon you, Samson!" And he awoke out of his sleep and thought, "I will get up
as I have done at other times and shake myself free"; for he did not know that Jehovah had
left him. So the Philistines seized him and bored out his eyes.

Then the rulers of the Philistines assembled to offer a great sacrifice to their god Dagon
and to rejoice, for they said, "Our god has given Samson, our enemy, into our power." When
the people saw him, they also praised their god, saying:

        "Our god has laid low our foe,
         He who brought our country woe,
         He who slew us with many a blow."

When they were in high spirits, they said, "Call Samson that he may amuse us." So they called
Samson from the prison and he amused them; and they placed him between the pillars.

Then Samson said to the young man who held him by the hand, "Let me touch the pillars on which
the building rests, that I may lean against them." Samson called on Jehovah and said, "O Jehovah,
remember me and strengthen me, I pray thee, just this once, O God, that by one act I may avenge
myself on the Philistines for the loss of my two eyes."

Then Samson took hold of the two middle pillars upon which the building rested, one with his
right hand and the other with his left, and leaned against them. And Samson said, "Let me die
with the Philistines." Then he bent over with all his strength, and the house fell upon the
rulers and upon all the people who were in it. So those whom he killed at his death were more
than those whom he killed during his lifetime.

Then his brothers and all his family came down and took him away and buried him between Zorah
and Eshtaol in the burying-place of Manoah his father.

THE DEVOTION OF RUTH

During the days of the judges, there was once a famine in the land; and a certain man from
Bethlehem in Judah took his wife and two sons to live in the territory of Moab. After they
had been living in Moab for some time, Elimelech died, and Naomi was left with her two sons.

So she set out with her daughters-in-law to return from the land of Moab, for she had heard
that Jehovah had remembered his people and given them food. As they were setting out on the
journey to Judah, Naomi said to her daughters-in-law, "Go, return each of you to the home of
your mother. May Jehovah be kind to you, as you have been kind to the dead and to me. Jehovah
grant that each of you may find peace and happiness in the house of a new husband."

Then she kissed them; but they began to weep aloud and said to her, "No, we will return with
you to your people." But Naomi said, "Go back, my daughters; why should you go with me? Can
I still have sons who might become your husbands? Go back, my daughters, go your own way, for
I am too old to have a husband. Even if I should say, 'I have hope,' even if I should have
a husband to-night and should have sons, would you wait for them until they were grown up?
Would you remain single for them? No, my daughters! I am sorry for you, for Jehovah has afflicted
me." Then they again wept aloud, and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law good-by, but Ruth stayed
with her.

Naomi said, "See, your sister-in-law is going back to her own people and to her own gods; go
along with her!" May Jehovah bring a curse upon me, if anything but death separate you and
me." When Naomi saw that Ruth had made up her mind to go with her, she ceased urging her to return.

So they travelled on until they came to Bethlehem. When they arrived there, the whole town
was interested, and the women said, "Is this Naomi?" But she said to them, "Do not call me
Naomi which means Sweetness: call me Mara which means Bitterness, for the Almighty has given
me a bitter lot. I had plenty when I left, but Jehovah has brought me back empty-handed. Why
should you call me Naomi, now that Jehovah has turned against me, and the Almighty has afflicted
me?" Ruth, the Moabitess, said to Naomi, "Let me now go into the fields and pick up the scattered
heads of grain after him whose favor I should win." Naomi said to her, "Go, my daughter."

So she went to pick up grain in the field after the reapers; and it was her good fortune to
pick up grain in that part of the field which belonged to Boaz, who was of the family of Elimelech.
When Boaz come from Bethlehem and said to the reapers, "Jehovah be with you," they answered
him, "May Jehovah bless you." Then Boaz said to his servant who had charge of the reapers,
"Whose maiden is this?" The servant replied, "It is the Moabite maiden who came back with Naomi
from the land of Moab; and she said, 'Let me pick up the scattered grain and gather sheaves
after the reapers.' So she came and has worked all the time until now, and she has not rested
a moment in the field."

Then Boaz said to Ruth, "Listen, my daughter. Do not go to pick up grain in another field nor
leave this place, but stay here with my maidens. I have told the young men not to trouble you.
When you are thirsty, go to the jars and drink of that which the young men have drawn."

Then she bowed low and said to him, "Why are you so kind to me, to take interest in me who
am from another land?" May Jehovah repay you for what you have done, and may you be fully rewarded
by the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge." Then she said, "I trust
I may please you, my lord, for you have comforted me and spoken kindly to your servant, although
I am not really equal to one of your own servants."

At noonday Boaz said to her, "Come here and eat some of the food and dip your piece of bread
in the wine." So she sat beside the reapers; and he passed her the roasted grain, and she ate
until she had had enough and had some left. When she rose to gather grain, Boaz gave this order
to his young men: "Let her gather grain even among the sheaves and do not disturb her. Also
pull out some for her from the bundles and leave it for her to gather and do not find fault
with her."

So she gathered grain in the field until evening, then beat out that which she had gathered;
and it was about a bushel of barley. Then she took it up and went into the city and showed
her mother-in-law what she had gathered. She also brought out and gave her that which she had
left from her meal after she had had enough.

Her mother-in-law said to her, "Where did you gather grain to-day and where did you work? A
blessing on him who took interest in you!" Then she told her mother-in-law where she had worked,
and said, "The name of the man with whom I worked to-day is Boaz." Naomi said to her daughter-in-law,
"May the blessing of Jehovah rest upon him who has not ceased to show his love to the living
and to the dead." Naomi also said to her, "The man is a near relative of ours." Ruth the Moabitess
added, "He said to me, 'You must keep near my young men until they have completed all my harvest.'"
Naomi said to Ruth, "It is best, my daughter, that you should go out with his maidens and that
no one should find you in another field." Is not Boaz, with whose maidens you have been, a
relative of ours? This very night he is going to winnow barley on the threshing-floor. Go in,
uncover his feet, lie down, and then he will tell you what to do." Ruth said to her, "I will
do as you say." Then Ruth came softly and uncovered his feet and lay down. At midnight the
man was startled and turned over, and there was a woman lying at his feet. He said, "Who are
you?" She answered, "I am Ruth your servant; spread therefore your skirt over your servant,
for you are a near relative." He said, "May you be blest by Jehovah, my daughter; for you have
shown me greater favor now than at first, for you have not followed young men, whether poor
or rich. My daughter, have no fear; I will do for you all that you ask; for all my townsmen
know that you are a good woman. Now it is true that I am a near relative; yet there is one
nearer than I. Stay here to-night, and then in the morning, if he will marry you, well, let
him do it. He also said, "Bring the cloak which you have on and hold it." So she held it while
he poured into it six measures of barley and laid it on her shoulders. Then he went into the city.

When Ruth came to her mother-in-law, Naomi said, "Is it you, my daughter?" Then Ruth told Naomi
all that the man had done for her. She said, "He gave me these six measures of barley; for
he said, 'Do not go to your mother-in-law empty-handed.'" Naomi said, "Wait quietly, my daughter,
until you know how this will turn out, for the man will not rest unless he settles it all to-day."

Then Boaz went up to the gate and sat down. Just then the near relative of whom Boaz had spoken
came along. To him Boaz said, "Ho!" calling him by name, "come here and sit down." So he stopped
and sat down. Boaz also took ten of the town elders and said, "Sit down here." So they sat down.

Then he said to the near relative, "Naomi, who has come back from the country of Moab, is offering
for sale the piece of land which belonged to our relative Elimelech, and I thought that I would
lay the matter before you, and ask you to buy it in the presence of these men who sit here
and of the elders of my people. If you will buy it and so keep it in the family, do so; but
if not, then tell me, that I may know; for no one but you has the right to buy it, and I am
next to you." He said, "I will buy it."

Then Boaz said, "On the day you buy the field from Naomi, you must also marry Ruth the Moabitess,
the widow of Mahlon, that a son may be born to bear his name and to receive this field." The
near relative said, "I cannot buy it for myself, for fear I should lose what already belongs
to me. You take my right of buying it as a relative, for I cannot do so."

Now in those days this was the custom in Israel: to make an agreement between two men the one
drew off his shoe and gave it to the other. So when the near relative said to Boaz, "Buy it
for yourself," Boaz drew off the man's shoe.

Then Boaz said to the elders and to all the people, "You are witnesses at this time that I
have bought all that was Elimelech's and all that was Chilion's and Mahlon's from Naomi. Moreover,
I have secured Ruth, the Moabitess, the widow of Mahlon, to be my wife so that she may have
a son who will receive this land and carry on Mahlon's name. May Jehovah make the woman who
is coming into your house like Rachel and Leah, and make you also famous in Bethlehem."

So Boaz married Ruth, and she became his wife; and Jehovah gave to her a son. Then the women
said to Naomi, "Blessed be Jehovah who has not left you at this time without a near relative,
and may his name be famous in Israel. This child will bring back your strength and take care
of you in your old age; for your daughter-in-law who loves you, who is worth more to you than
seven sons, has a son!"

So Naomi took the child in her arms and she became its nurse.

This man used to go up from his village each year to worship and offer a sacrifice to Jehovah
of hosts at Shiloh. Whenever the day came for Elkanah to offer a sacrifice he gave portions
to his wife Peninnah and to all his sons and daughters; but although he loved Hannah, he gave
her only one portion, for Jehovah had given her no children. Peninnah made her angry by mocking
her, for Jehovah had given her no children. Why are you so troubled? Am I not more to you than
ten sons?"

After they had eaten in Shiloh, Hannah arose and stood before the temple of Jehovah, while
Eli the priest was sitting on his seat beside the door posts of the temple. With a sad heart
she prayed earnestly to Jehovah and wept bitterly. She also made this sacred promise:

          "O Jehovah of hosts!
        If thou wilt look at my affliction,
        And remember, not forgetting thy servant,
        But wilt give thy servant a son,
        Then I will give him to thee,
        Throughout all the days of his life;
        And no razor shall touch his head."

While she continued praying before Jehovah, Eli watched her mouth. Put away your wine and go
from the presence of Jehovah." But Hannah answered, "No, my lord, I am an unhappy woman; I
have not drunk wine nor any strong drink, but I have been pouring out my heart before Jehovah.
Do not think that your servant is a wicked woman, for I have gone on speaking until now because
my grief and vexation are so great." She said, "May your servant have your approval!" So the
woman went away and ate, and her face was no longer sad.

Early in the morning she and her husband rose; and after they had worshipped Jehovah, they
returned to their home at Ramah. In the course of the year Hannah had a son and named him Samuel,
saying, "I asked him of Jehovah."

Elkanah and all his household again went to offer the yearly sacrifice to Jehovah, but Hannah
did not go up, for she said to her husband, "When the child is weaned, then I will take him,
and he shall go to Jehovah's temple and live there the rest of his life." Elkanah said to her,
"Do what seems best to you; wait until you have weaned him; only may Jehovah help you to do
what you have promised."

So the woman waited and nursed her son until she weaned him. Then she took him with her, and
a three-year-old ox, a bushel of flour, and a skin of wine, and brought him to the temple of
Jehovah at Shiloh. Then they killed the ox, and Hannah brought the child to Eli and said, "Oh,
my lord, as surely as you live, I am the woman who stood near you here praying earnestly to
Jehovah. This is the boy for whom I prayed. Jehovah has granted what I asked of him. Therefore
I have given him to Jehovah; as long as he lives he belongs to Jehovah."

Elkanah returned to his home in Ramah, but the boy stayed to serve Jehovah under the direction
of Eli the priest. So Samuel--a young boy dressed in a linen robe--did the duties of a priest
in the temple. Then they returned to their home; and Hannah had three more sons and two daughters.
Meantime the boy Samuel grew up in the temple of Jehovah.

The sons of Eli were very wicked. They knew not Jehovah, and they despised the offerings which
were brought to him. Eli was very old, and whenever he heard that his sons were doing wrong
he said to them, "Why do you do such things, for I hear of your wicked deeds from all the people.
No, my sons: it is not a good report that I hear from the people of Jehovah." But they did
not listen to the words of their father.

The boy Samuel grew and won the favor both of Jehovah and of men. He continued to serve Jehovah
under the direction of Eli; but in those days not many messages came from Jehovah.

One day Eli was lying in his room. Samuel!" He answered, "Here am I." Then he ran to Eli and
said, "Here am I, for you called me." But Eli said, "I did not call, lie down again." So he
went and lay down. Then Jehovah called again, "Samuel! Samuel!" Samuel rose and went to Eli
and said, "Here am I, for you called me." But Eli answered, "I did not call, my son; lie down
again."

Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah nor had a message from Jehovah been given to him. So when
Jehovah called Samuel again the third time, he rose and went to Eli and said, "Here am I, for
you called me!" Then Eli knew that Jehovah was calling the boy. So he said to Samuel, "Go,
lie down, and if you are called, say, 'Speak, Jehovah, for thy servant is listening.'" So Samuel
went and lay down in his place.

Then Jehovah came and called as at other times, "Samuel! Samuel!" And Samuel answered, "Speak,
for thy servant is listening." Jehovah said to Samuel, "See, I am about to do a thing in Israel
that will make the ears of every one who hears it tingle. On that day I will do to Eli all
that I have said that I would do to his family from the first to the last. For I have told
him that I will punish his family forever for the crime of which he knew his sons were guilty,
for they did not do what God commanded and he did not stop them."

Samuel lay until morning, and then he opened the doors of the temple of Jehovah. He was afraid
to tell the vision to Eli. But when Eli called him and said, "Samuel, my son," he said, "Here
am I." Eli asked, "What is the thing that Jehovah said to you? Keep nothing from me; may God
do to you whatever he will, if you keep from me a word of all that he said to you." So Samuel
told him everything, and kept nothing from him. And Eli said, "It is Jehovah; let him do what
seems good to him."

THE ARK AMONG THE PHILISTINES

In those days the Israelites went out to meet the Philistines, and in a hard-fought battle
the Israelites were defeated by the Philistines.

When the people returned to the camp, the leaders of Israel said, "Why has Jehovah let us be
beaten to-day by the Philistines? Let us bring the ark of our God from Shiloh. He may then
go out with us and deliver us from our enemies."

So the people sent to Shiloh and took from there the ark of Jehovah of hosts. When it came
to the camp, all the Israelites shouted so loud that the earth resounded.

The Philistines heard the sound of the shouting and said, "What does this sound of great shouting
in the camp of the Hebrews mean?" When they knew that the ark of Jehovah had come to the camp,
they were afraid, for they said, "Their god has come to their camp. Woe to us! for it has never
been so before; but be strong and act like men." So the Philistines fought, and the Israelites
were defeated and each fled to his tent.

The same day a Benjamite from the ranks ran to Shiloh with his clothes torn and with earth
on his head. As he came, Eli was sitting on his seat by the gate watching the road, for his
heart was trembling for the ark of God.

When the man came and told the people of the city, they all cried out. Eli heard the sound
of crying and said, "What is this uproar?" So the man came quickly and told Eli, "I am the
man who came from the battle, for I fled from the ranks." Eli said, "How did it go, my son?"
The messenger answered, "Israel fled from the Philistines, and many people were killed, and
your two sons are dead, and the ark of God has been captured."

The Philistines took the ark of God and brought it to the temple of Dagon in Ashdod and set
it up by the side of Dagon. When the people of Ashdod rose early the next day and came to the
temple of Dagon, there was Dagon on the ground flat on his face before the ark of Jehovah.
Then they raised up Dagon and set him in his place again. But when they rose early on the following
morning, there was Dagon on the ground flat on his face before the ark of Jehovah. The head
of Dagon and both his hands were broken off on the door sill, and only his body was left.

Jehovah severely punished the people of Ashdod, for he punished them with boils. When the men
of Ashdod saw this, they said, "The ark of the god of Israel shall not stay with us, for he
is severely punishing us and Dagon our god." So they sent for all the rulers of the Philistines
and asked, "What shall we do with the ark of the god of Israel?" Then Jehovah punished the
men of that city, both young and old, with boils.

Then the Philistines called the priests and diviners and asked, "What shall we do with the
ark of Jehovah? Tell us with what we shall send it to its place." They said, "If you send back
the ark of the god of Israel, you must not send it away empty, but must return to him an offering
to repay him for all that you have done to the ark. Then you shall be healed, and you shall
know why he has continued to punish you." They said, "What offering shall we send back in order
to repay him?"

They said, "Five golden boils and five golden mice, the same number as the rulers of the Philistines;
for one plague was upon you as well as upon your rulers. Now therefore prepare a new cart and
two milch cows that have never worn a yoke, and fasten the cows to the cart, but leave their
calves behind them at home. Then take the ark of Jehovah and place it upon the cart and put
in a box at its side the golden objects which you are sending to them as an offering to repay
him. Then send it away. If it goes on the way to its own border, to Bethshemesh, then it is
Jehovah who has done us this great harm; but if not, then we shall know that it is not he who
has punished us; it was only an accident."

The men did so, and the cows took a straight course along the Bethshemesh road. They went along
the highway, lowing as they went, and did not turn aside to the right nor to the left. The
rulers of the Philistines also went after them as far as Bethshemesh.

The inhabitants of Bethshemesh were harvesting their wheat in the valley, and when they looked
up and saw the ark, they rejoiced at the sight. When the five rulers of the Philistines saw
it, they returned to Ekron the same day.

HOW SAMUEL FOUND A LEADER

There was a rich Benjamite named Kish, who lived at Gibeah. He had a son named Saul, a man
full grown and handsome; no one among the Israelites was more handsome than he. From his shoulders
and upward he was taller than any of the people. They went through the highlands of Ephraim
and the land of Shalishah, but did not find them. Then they crossed into the land of Shaalim,
but the asses were not there. They also went through the land of Benjamin, but did not find them.

They had come into the land of Zuph when Saul said to his servant who was with him, "Come,
let us go back, that my father may not stop thinking of the asses and be anxious about us."
The servant answered him, "There is a man of God in this town who is held in honor; all that
he says is sure to come true. Now let us go there; perhaps he can tell us the way we should go."

Saul said to his servant, "But, suppose we go, what shall we take to the man, for the bread
is gone from our sacks, and there is no present to take to the man of God? What have we?" The
servant answered Saul again and said, "See, I have with me a quarter of a silver shekel. Give
it to the man of God that he may tell us our way." Then Saul said to his servant, "Your advice
is good; come, let us go." So they went to the town where the man of God was.

As they were going up to the town, they met young women going out to draw water and said to
them, "Is the seer here?" They answered them, "He is there; he is before you. Make haste, for
he has just come into the town, for the people have a sacrificial feast to-day at the sacred
place on the hilltop. Therefore go up now, for at this time you will find him."

So they went up to the town, and when they came inside the gate, Samuel was just coming out
toward them to go up to the high place. He shall deliver my people from the power of the Philistines;
for I have seen the suffering of my people, because their cry has come to me."

When Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah told him, "This is the man of whom I spoke to you! He it is who
shall rule over my people." As for your asses that were lost three days ago, do not trouble
yourself about them for they have been found. And to whom belongs all that is best in Israel?

But Samuel took Saul and his servant and brought them into the hall and made them sit at the
head of the guests (who were about thirty in number). Samuel also said to the cook, "Bring
the part which I gave you and told you to put aside." So the cook took up the leg and what
was on it and placed them before Saul. Then Samuel said, "See what has been kept for you! Set
it before you and eat, for it was kept for you until the appointed time, that you might eat
with the people whom I have invited." Then at daybreak Samuel called to Saul on the roof, saying,
"Rise, that I may send you away." So Saul rose, and he and Samuel went out into the street.
As they were going out of the town, Samuel said to Saul, "Tell the servant to go on before
us, but you stand here that I may tell you the message from God."

Then Samuel took the flask of oil and poured it on Saul's head, and kissed him and said, "Has
not Jehovah anointed you to be a prince over his people Israel? You shall rule over Jehovah's
people and deliver them from the power of their enemies on every side. This is the sign that
Jehovah has anointed you to be a prince over his own people: when you go from me to-day you
shall find two men at Rachel's tomb; and they will say to you, 'The asses that you went to
seek are found, and now your father is thinking no more about the asses but is worrying about
you, saying, "What shall I do for my son?"' Then you shall go on from there and come to the
oak of Tabor. They will greet you and give you two loaves of bread which you shall take from
their hand. After that you shall come to Gibeah. Then the spirit of Jehovah will come suddenly
upon you, and you shall prophesy with them, and shall be changed into another man. When these
signs come to you, do whatever you can, for God is with you." So when Saul turned away from
Samuel, God gave him a new heart, and all those signs came to pass that day.

Saul's uncle also said to him and to his servant, "Where did you go?" But Saul did not tell
him that Samuel had said he should become the ruler. But Nahash, the Ammonite, said to them.
"On this condition will I make terms with you: that I bore out the right eye of each of you,
and so bring disgrace upon all Israel." The elders of Jabesh said to him, "Let us have seven
days in which to send messengers through all the land of Israel. Then, if there are none to
save us, we will come to you."

So the messengers came to Gibeah where Saul lived and told the facts in the hearing of the
people, and they all set up a loud wail. Just then Saul was coming from the field behind the
oxen, and he said, "What is the trouble with the people that they are wailing?" Then they told
him what the men of Jabesh had said. When he heard it, the spirit of Jehovah came suddenly
upon him and he became very indignant. He took a pair of oxen, cut them in pieces, and sent
them through all the land of Israel by messengers, who said, "Whoever does not come out after
Saul and after Samuel, the same shall be done to his oxen!"

Then a terror from Jehovah fell upon the people, and they all gathered together. And Saul said
to the messengers who came, "Say to the men of Jabesh in Gilead, 'To-morrow by the time the
sun grows hot help shall come to you.'" So on the following day, Saul divided the people into
three divisions; and they went into the midst of the camp early in the morning, and fought
against the Ammonites until noon. The Ammonites who stayed behind were so scattered that not
two of them were left together.

Then all the people went to Gilgal and there in the presence of Jehovah made Saul their ruler,
and they offered sacrifices there to Jehovah; and Saul and all the men of Israel were very happy.

JONATHAN'S BRAVE DEED

Saul picked out three thousand men from the Israelites. Two thousand were with Saul in Michmash
and on the highland of Bethel, and a thousand were with his son Jonathan in Gibeah. But Saul
had sent the rest of the people each to his home.

Then Jonathan attacked the company of the Philistines in Gibeah; and the Philistines heard
of it. But Saul sounded a call to arms throughout all the land, saying, "Let the Hebrews hear!"
So all Israel heard the report that Saul had attacked the Philistines, and also that Israel
was hated by them.

Then the Philistines were gathered together to fight with Israel: three thousand chariots,
six thousand horsemen, and foot soldiers as many as the sand of the seashore. They came up
and camped in Michmash. When the men of Israel saw that they were in a tight place (for the
people were hard pressed), the people hid themselves in caves, in holes, in the rocks, in tombs,
and in pits. Also many people crossed over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead.

Then Saul counted the people who were with him and found that there were about six hundred
men. And Saul and his son Jonathan, together with the people who were with them, remained in
Gibeah, while the Philistines camped in Michmash. Then the Philistines came out of the camp
in three divisions to steal whatever they could find: one division turned toward Ophrah, in
the land of Shual, another toward Bethhoron, and another toward the hill that looks down over
the valley of Zeboim. But the garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Michmash.
But he did not tell his father.

Meantime Saul was sitting just outside of Gibeah under the pomegranate-tree which is near the
threshing-floor, and there were with him about six hundred men. But the people did not know
that Jonathan had gone.

Along the ravine by which Jonathan tried to go over against the Philistines there was a steep
rock on one side, and a steep rock on the other; one was named The Shining, and the other The
Thorny. One rock rose up north of Michmash, and the other south of Geba.

So Jonathan said to the young man who carried his armor, "Come, let us go over to the camp
of these heathen Philistines. Perhaps Jehovah will act for us, for there is nothing that can
keep Jehovah from delivering his people either by many or by few." His armor-bearer replied,
"Do whatever you wish, I will do my best to help you." Then Jonathan said, "See, we will cross
over to the men and show ourselves to them. If they say to us, 'Stand still until we can reach
you,' then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up to them. But if they say, 'Come
up to us,' then we will go up; for this shall be the proof that Jehovah has given them into
our power."

When both of them showed themselves to the Philistines, the Philistines said, "There are Hebrews
coming out of the holes where they have hidden." So they called to Jonathan and his armor-bearer,
"Come up to us, and we will show you something!" And the Philistines fell before Jonathan,
and his armor-bearer followed and put them to death. In the first attack Jonathan and his armor-bearer
killed about twenty men with spears and rocks from the field. Then there was a great panic
in the camp, in the open field, and among all the Philistines. Even those who were out robbing
were panic-stricken, and the earth quaked, so that it produced a God-sent panic.

The watchmen of Saul in Gibeah looked and saw the great company of Philistines melting away
and rushing here and there. Then Saul said to the people who were with him, "Look now and see
who is gone from us." While Saul was still speaking to the priest, the noise and disorder among
the Philistines kept on increasing. Therefore, Saul said to the priest, "Do not wait to consult
Jehovah!"

Then Saul and all the people that were with him gathered together and went into battle. And
every Philistine's sword was turned upon his fellow, so that there was a very great confusion
among them. So Jehovah delivered Israel that day, and the battle passed over beyond Bethhoron.
But Saul made a great mistake that day, for he strictly commanded the people, saying, "The
man who shall eat any food until evening and until I take vengeance on my enemies shall be
punished." So none of the people tasted food.

Now there was honey on the surface of the ground; and when the people came to the forest, they
saw a stream of honey, but no one put his hand to his mouth, for the people feared the punishment.
But Jonathan had not heard when his father commanded the people. Then one of the people spoke
up and said, "Your father strictly commanded the people, saying, 'The man who eats food this
day shall be punished.'" But Jonathan replied, "My father has brought great trouble on the
land. See how I have been refreshed because I tasted a little of this honey. If only the people
had eaten freely to-day of the spoil of their enemies, many more of the Philistines would have
been slain."

Then Saul said, "Let us go down after the Philistines by night and take spoil until daybreak,
and let us not leave one of them." They said, "Do whatever you think best." But the priest
said, "Let us ask of God." So Saul asked of God, "Shall I go down after the Philistines? Wilt
thou deliver them over to Israel?" But he did not answer him that day. Therefore Saul said,
"Come here, all you leaders of the people, and find out who has done wrong to-day. For as surely
as Jehovah the deliverer of Israel lives, even though it be Jonathan my son, he shall die."
The people said to Saul, "Do what you think best." Therefore Saul said, "Jehovah, God of Israel,
why hast thou not answered thy servant this day? If the sin be mine or that of Jonathan my
son, Jehovah, God of Israel, show it by the lot marked Urim; but if the sin lies with thy people
Israel, show it by the lot marked Thummim." Then the lot fell on Jonathan and Saul and not
on the people. So Saul said, "Cast the lot between me and Jonathan my son. He whom Jehovah
selects must die." The people said to Saul, "It shall not be so!" Here I am! I am ready to
die." Saul said, "God do so to me and more too; Jonathan, you shall surely die!" But all the
people said to Saul, "Shall Jonathan die who has brought this great deliverance to Israel?
Far from it! As surely as Jehovah lives, not one hair of his head shall fall to the ground,
for he has done this day what God wished." So the people saved Jonathan from death.

DAVID'S VICTORY OVER THE GIANT

As long as Saul lived there was bitter war with the Philistines. Whenever Saul saw a strong
or able man, he would take him into his service.

Now the spirit of Jehovah had left Saul and an evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him. So Saul's
servants said to him, "See now, an evil spirit from Jehovah is troubling you. Let your servants
who are here advise you, and let them seek a man skilled in playing the lyre. Then, whenever
the evil spirit comes upon you, he shall play on the lyre, and you will be well." Saul said
to his servants, "Find me a man who plays well, and bring him to me."

Then one of the young men said, "I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite who is a skilled
musician, a strong and able man, a soldier, careful in speech, handsome, and Jehovah is with
him." So Saul sent messengers to Jesse with the command, "Send me David your son, who is with
the flock."

Then Jesse took ten loaves of bread, a skin of wine, and a kid, and sent them to Saul by his
son David. So David came to Saul and entered his service; and Saul loved him and he became
his armor-bearer. Saul sent this message to Jesse: "Let David remain in my service, for I am
well pleased with him." And whenever the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, David would take
the lyre and play, and Saul would breathe more easily and would be well, and the evil spirit
would depart from him.

Now the Philistines gathered their forces for war, and camped between Socoh and Ezekah in Ephesdammim.
Saul and the men of Israel came together and camped in the valley of Elah; and they were drawn
up ready for battle against the Philistines.

The Philistines were standing on the hill on one side, and the Israelites were standing on
the hill on the other side with the valley between them. Then there came out from the ranks
of the Philistines a champion named Goliath, who was about ten feet tall. He had a helmet of
bronze on his head and wore a bronze breastplate of scales which weighed one hundred and fifty
pounds. He also had bronze greaves upon his legs and a bronze back-plate between his shoulders.
The shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and the head of his iron spear weighed about
twenty pounds; and his shield-bearer went before him.

He stood and called to the ranks of Israel: "Why have you come out to form the line of battle?
But David said to Saul, "Let not my lord's courage fail him; I will go and fight this Philistine."
Saul said to David, "You are not able to go and fight against this Philistine, for you are
only a youth and he has been a warrior from his youth." If he attacked me, I would seize him
by his throat and kill him with a blow. Your servant has killed both lion and bear. Now this
heathen Philistine shall be like one of them, for he has defied the armies of the living God.
Jehovah who saved me from the paw of the lion and from the paw of the bear will save me from
the hand of this Philistine." So Saul said to David, "Go, and may Jehovah be with you."

Saul clothed David with his own garments, and put a helmet of bronze on his head and gave him
a coat of mail. And David fastened on his sword over his coat and was not able to walk, for
he was not used to them. So he said to Saul, "I cannot go with these, for I am not used to
them." So David took them off.

Then he took his club in his hand, and he chose five smooth stones from the bed of the brook
and put them in his bag, and he took his sling in his hand and drew near to the Philistine.
When the Philistine looked and saw David, he despised him, for he was but a fair and ruddy
youth. So the Philistine said to David, "Am I a dog that you come against me with a club?"
And he cursed David by his gods, and said, "Come to me that I may give your flesh to the birds
of the heavens and to the beasts of the field."

Then David answered the Philistine, "You come to me with a sword and spear and javelin, but
I come to you in the name of Jehovah of hosts and of the God of the armies of Israel whom you
have insulted this day. Jehovah will deliver you into my hand that I may kill you and cut off
your head." The women sang gaily to each other and said,

        "Saul has slain his thousands,
         And David his tens of thousands."

Saul was very angry, for their words displeased him, and he said, "To David they give credit
for ten thousands, but to me only thousands; what more can he have but the rulership?" So Saul
kept his eye on David from that day onward. Saul feared David and did not let him stay near
him. He made him commander over a thousand men; and David went out and came in at the head
of the soldiers. In all that he did David acted wisely and had success, for Jehovah was with
him. When Saul saw that he acted wisely, he was still more afraid of him. But all Israel and
Judah loved David, for he went out and came in at their head. So Saul commanded his servants,
"Say to David secretly: 'See, the ruler is pleased with you and all his servants love you;
now therefore become his son-in-law.'" When Saul's servants told this to David, he said, "Do
you think it easy for me to become the son-in-law of a ruler when I am poor and have no reputation!"
When Saul's servants told him David's answer, he commanded, "Say to David: 'Saul wishes no
price for his daughter except the proof that you have killed a hundred Philistines;'" for Saul
thought that David would be killed by them.

So David went with his men and killed a hundred Philistines; and Saul gave him his daughter
Michal as his wife. Then Saul knew that Jehovah was with David and that all Israel loved him,
so he feared David still more.

Then Saul commanded his son Jonathan and all his servants to put David to death. But Jonathan
was very fond of David. And Jonathan spoke well of David to Saul his father and said to him,
"Do not sin against your servant David, for he has not wronged you and his behavior toward
you has been excellent; for he risked his life and killed the Philistine, so that Jehovah saved
all Israel. You saw it and rejoiced. Why then will you sin by shedding innocent blood in killing
David without cause?" And Jonathan brought David to Saul and he was with him as before.

But there was war again, and David went out and fought against the Philistines and killed so
many of them that they fled before him. Then an evil spirit from Jehovah came upon Saul while
he was sitting in his house with his spear in his hand and while David was playing on the lyre.
And when Saul sent messengers to seize David, she said, "He is sick."

Again Saul sent the messengers to the house of David with the command, "Bring him up to me
on the bed, that I may put him to death." Michal answered Saul, "He said to me: 'Let me go;
why should I kill you?'"

JONATHAN'S LOVE FOR DAVID

Then David went and found Jonathan and said, "What have I done? What is my guilt, and what
is my sin in the mind of your father, that he is seeking my life?" Jonathan replied, "No, no!
You shall not die. You know that my father does nothing great or small that he does not tell
me, and why should my father hide this from me? He surely will not." David answered, "Your
father well knows that you are fond of me, and he is saying to himself, 'Do not let Jonathan
know this that he may not be grieved.' But as surely as Jehovah lives and as you live, there
is only a step between me and death."

Then Jonathan said to David, "What do you wish me to do for you?" David answered, "To-morrow
is the festival of the New Moon and I ought to sit at the table with Saul, but let me go and
I will hide myself in the field until evening. If your father misses me, then say, 'David asked
permission of me to run to Bethlehem, his native town, for the yearly sacrifice is there for
all his family.' If he says, 'Good,' then it is well with your servant; but if he gets angry,
then you will know that he is planning to harm me. Now show kindness to your servant, for in
the presence of Jehovah you have made a solemn agreement with your servant. But if I am at
all guilty, kill me yourself, for why should you bring me to your father?" Jonathan said, "That
shall never be! If I learn that my father is planning to do you harm, I will tell you."

Then David said to Jonathan, "Who will tell me if your father answers you harshly?" Jonathan
answered, "Jehovah the God of Israel be witness that about this time to-morrow I will find
out how my father feels. If he feels kindly toward you, then I will send and tell you. Should
my father wish to do you harm, God do to Jonathan whatever he will and more too if I do not
tell you and send you away that you may go in peace. May Jehovah be with you, as he has been
with my father. And if I am yet alive, O may you show me kindness like that of Jehovah himself!
But if I should die, you must never cease to be kind to my family. And if, when Jehovah destroys
all the enemies of David from the face of the earth, the family of Jonathan should be destroyed
by the family of David, may Jehovah punish the crime by the hand of David's enemies." So Jonathan
renewed his solemn promise to David, because he loved him; for he loved him as much as he loved
his own life.

Then Jonathan said to him, "To-morrow is the festival of the New Moon and you will be missed,
for your seat will be empty. On the third day, when you will be greatly missed, go to the place
where you hid yourself when my father attacked you, and sit down beside the heap of stones.
I will shoot three arrows on one side of it, as though I shot at a mark. Then I will send the
boy, saying, 'Go, find the arrows.' If I call to the boy, 'See, the arrows are on this side
of you; pick them up!'--then come; for all goes well with you, and as surely as Jehovah lives,
there is nothing to fear. But if I call to the boy, 'See, the arrows are beyond you,' then
go, for Jehovah sends you away. And as for the promises which you and I have made, Jehovah
is witness between you and me forever."

So David hid himself in the field; and when the festival of the New Moon came, Saul sat down
at the table to eat. He sat on his seat, as usual, by the wall, and Jonathan sat opposite,
and Abner sat beside Saul; but David's seat was empty. Saul, however, did not say anything
that day, for he thought, "It is an accident." Jonathan answered, "David asked permission to
go to Bethlehem, for he said, 'Let me go, for we have a family sacrifice in the town, and my
brother has commanded me to be there. Now if you approve, let me go away that I may see my
family.' Therefore, he has not come to your table."

Then Saul's anger was aroused against Jonathan, and he said to him, "Son of a rebellious slave
girl! Do I not know that you are making the son of Jesse your friend to your own shame and
to your mother's shame? For as long as the son of Jesse lives, neither you nor your rule will
be safe. So Jonathan knew that his father had made up his mind to put David to death. And Jonathan
rose from the table in hot anger and ate no food on the second day of the month, for he felt
hurt because his father had insulted David. Hurry, be quick, do not stop!" So Jonathan's lad
gathered up the arrows, and brought them to his master. But the boy knew nothing about the
signal. Only Jonathan and David understood.

THE COST OF A LIE

Then David went to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest who came trembling to meet David and said to
him, "Why are you alone, and no one with you?" David answered Ahimelech the priest, "Saul has
given me orders about some business and has said to me, 'Let no one know anything about the
business on which I am sending you and about which I have given you orders.' I have also directed
the young men to meet me at a certain place. Therefore, if you have at hand five loaves of
bread, give them to me or whatever can be found." The priest answered David, "There is no plain
bread at hand, but only holy bread." So the priest gave him holy bread, for there was no other
bread there except that which had been removed from the temple to be replaced at once by hot bread.

Now Doeg, the Edomite, the chief of Saul's herdsmen, was there that day. And David said to
Ahimelech, "Have you not here at hand a spear or sword? If you wish to take that, do so, for
there is no other except that here." David answered, "There is none like that; give it to me."

Then David went from there and escaped to the stronghold of Adullam. When his brothers and
all his father's clan heard of it, they went down there to him. Every one who was in trouble
and every one who was in debt, and every one who was discontented gathered about him, and he
became their leader. About four hundred men were with him. Is it not true that all of you have
plotted against me so that no one tells me that my son has made an agreement with the son of
Jesse, and that none of you has pity upon me or tells me that my son has made my servant David
my enemy as he now is?" Then Doeg the Edomite, who was standing by the servants of Saul, spoke
up and said, "I saw the son of Jesse go to Nob, to Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub. And the priest
inquired of God for him and gave him food and the sword of Goliath the Philistine."

Then Saul sent for Ahimelech the priest, and all his family and the priests who were in Nob;
and all of them came to him. Then Saul said, "Listen, son of Ahitub!" He answered, "Here I
am, my lord!" Saul said to him, "Is it not true that you and the son of Jesse have plotted
against me and that you have given him bread and a sword and have inquired of God for him,
that he might rebel against me?" Ahimelech answered Saul, "Who among all your servants is trusted
like David, your son-in-law, chief over your subjects, and honored in your household? Is this
the first time I have inquired of God for him? Far be it from me to be disloyal! Do not think
that I or any of my clan have any evil intention, for your servant does not know the slightest
thing about all this." But Saul said, "Ahimelech, you shall surely die, you and all your family."

Then Saul said to the guards who were standing about him, "Turn and kill the priests of Jehovah,
for they have plotted with David; and although they knew that he was fleeing, they did not
tell me." But Saul's servants would not raise their hands to kill the priests of Jehovah. Then
Saul said to Doeg, "Turn and kill the priests." So Doeg, the Edomite, turned and killed them.
On that day he killed eighty-five men who wore the priestly robes. I myself am responsible
for the death of all your family. Stay with me, have no fear, for whoever seeks your life must
first take mine, for you are placed in my charge." Jehovah said to David, "Go, attack the Philistines
and save Keilah." In this way David delivered the people of Keilah. And when Saul was told
that David had come to Keilah, Saul said, "God has given him into my power, for by entering
a town that has doors and bars he has let himself be trapped." Then David said, "O Jehovah,
the God of Israel, thy servant has surely heard that Saul is planning to come to Keilah, to
destroy the town because of me. Will Saul come down, as thy servant has heard? O Jehovah, God
of Israel, tell thy servant." Jehovah said, "He will come down." Then David said, "Will the
men of Keilah turn me and my men over to Saul?" Jehovah said, "They will." Then David and his
men, who were about six hundred, left Keilah, and wandered from one place to another. When
it was reported to Saul that David had escaped from Keilah, he no longer followed him. So David
lived in the Wilderness of Ziph and stayed in the mountain strongholds.

Then the Ziphites came to Saul at Gibeah, saying, "Is not David hiding in the hill country
of Hachilah?" So Saul went down to the Wilderness of Ziph with three thousand men of Israel
to hunt for David. And Saul camped in the hill country of Hachilah; but David stayed in the
wilderness. When David saw that Saul was following him into the wilderness, he sent out scouts
and learned that Saul had come to the place just in front of him. David then arose and went
to the place where Saul had camped.

Then Abishai said to David, "God has given your enemy to you to-day. Now let me pin him to
the earth with his spear at one stroke, for I will not need to strike him twice!" David replied,
"As surely as Jehovah lives, either Jehovah will smite him, or his day will come to die, or
he will go down into battle and meet his end. Jehovah forbid that I should harm him whom Jehovah
has called to rule! But now take the spear that is at his head and the jug of water, and let
us go." So David took the spear and the jug of water from Saul's head, and they departed. But
no man saw it or knew it, for they were all asleep, and no one awoke, for a deep sleep from
Jehovah had fallen upon them.

Then David went across and stood on the top of a hill at a distance with a great space between
them. And David called to the soldiers and to Abner, the son of Ner, and said, "Do you make
no answer, Abner?" Abner answered, "Who are you that calls?" David said to Abner, "Are you
not a man, and who is like you in Israel? Why then have you not kept guard over your lord the
ruler of Israel? For one of the people came to destroy your lord. You have not done what is
right. As surely as Jehovah lives you ought to be put to death, for you have not kept watch
over your master whom Jehovah has called to rule. And he added, "Why is it that my lord is
following his servant? For what have I done? Or of what am I guilty? Now therefore let my lord
listen to me. If Jehovah has stirred you up against me, let him accept an offering. But if
men have stirred you up against me, let them be cursed before Jehovah, for they have driven
me out to-day, saying, 'Go serve other gods,' so that I have no share in the land which Jehovah
has given to his people. May I not meet my end far away from the presence of Jehovah, for the
ruler of Israel has come out to seek my life, as one hunts a partridge on the mountains."

Then Saul said, "I have done wrong. Come back, my son David, for I will do you no more harm,
for you have spared my life to-day. I have acted foolishly and have made a great mistake."
David answered, "Here is Saul's spear! Let one of the young men come over and take it. May
Jehovah reward each one who does right and is faithful; for Jehovah gave you to me to-day,
but I would not harm one whom Jehovah had called to rule. Just as your life was of great value
in my sight so may my life be of great value in Jehovah's sight, and may he deliver me from
all trouble."

Then Saul said to David, "May you be blessed, my son David! You shall do great deeds and shall
surely succeed!" So David went his way, but Saul returned home.

ABIGAIL'S SENSIBLE ADVICE

Then David went away into the Wilderness of Maon. Now there was a man in Maon, whose property
was in Carmel. His name was Nabal, and his wife's name was Abigail. The woman was sensible
and beautiful, but the man was rough and ill-mannered; and he was a Calebite. You shall say
to him and to his family, 'Peace and prosperity be to you and your family and to all that you
have. Now I have heard that you have sheep-shearers. Your shepherds were with us, and we did
not insult them, and nothing of theirs was missing all the while they were in Carmel. Ask your
young men and they will tell you. Many are the slaves these days who break away from their
masters! Should I then take my bread and my water and my meat that I have prepared for my shearers
and give it to men of whom I know nothing?" So when David's young men returned and told him,
he said to them, "Let every man put on his sword." So they all put on their swords. The men
have been very good to us and we have not been harmed nor have we missed anything, as long
as we were with them in the open country. They were as a wall about us both night and day all
the time we were near them guarding the sheep. Now therefore decide what you will do, for evil
is planned against our master and against all his household, for he is such an ill-tempered
man that no one can say a word to him."

Then Abigail quickly took two hundred loaves of bread, two skins of wine, five roasted sheep,
five baskets of parched grain, a hundred bunches of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs,
and loaded them on asses. She said to her young men, "Go on ahead of me; see, I am coming after
you." But she said nothing about it to her husband Nabal. As she was riding on the ass and
coming down under cover of a hill, David and his men were coming down toward her, so that she
met them. David had just said, "It was in vain that I guarded all that belongs to this fellow
in the wilderness, so that nothing of his was missing, for he has returned me evil for good.
May God bring a similar judgment upon David and more too, if by daybreak I leave a single man
of all those who belong to him."

When Abigail saw David, she dismounted quickly from her ass and bowed down before him with
her face to the ground. As she fell at his feet she said, "Upon me, my lord, upon me be the
blame. Only let your servant speak to you, and listen to her words. Let not my lord pay any
attention to that mean man Nabal, for as his name is, so is he. 'Fool' is his name and folly
rules him. But your servant did not see the young men of my lord, whom you sent. I beg of you,
forgive the wrong done by your servant, for Jehovah will certainly make my lord's family strong,
for my lord is fighting for Jehovah, and you shall not be guilty of any evil deed as long as
you live. Should a man rise up to pursue you and seek your life, Jehovah your God will care
for you, but he will cast away the lives of your enemies as from a sling. When Jehovah has
done for you all the good that he has promised and has made you ruler over Israel, you will
not have to be sorry that you shed blood without cause or that you were revenged by your own
hand. When Jehovah gives prosperity to my lord, then too remember your servant."

David said to Abigail, "Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel, who sent you this day to meet
me, and blessed be your good sense. A blessing on you, who have kept me this day from murder
and from avenging myself by my own hand. For as surely as Jehovah the God of Israel lives,
who has kept me from doing you harm, unless you had quickly come to meet me, truly by daybreak
not one man would have been left to Nabal."

So David received from her all which she had brought him. And he said to her, "Go back in peace
to your house. See, I have listened to your advice and granted your request."

When Abigail returned to Nabal, he was holding a feast in his house like a king. He was feeling
merry, for he was very drunk; so she told him nothing whatever until daybreak. But in the morning,
when the effects of the wine were gone, his wife told him what she had done. Then his heart
stopped beating and he became like a stone. About ten days later he had a stroke from which
he died.

When David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, "Thanks be to Jehovah who has punished Nabal's
insult to me and has kept me from doing wrong, for Jehovah has visited Nabal's crime upon his
own head."

Then David sent to ask Abigail to become his wife. When his servants came to her at Carmel
and said, "David has sent us to you to take you to him to be his wife," she rose and bowed
her face to the earth and said, "See, your slave is willing to be even a servant to wash the
feet of my lord's servants." Then Abigail quickly rose and mounted an ass; and five of her
maids followed as servants. So she went with the messengers of David, and became his wife.
David, therefore, with the six hundred men who were with him went over to Achish, king of Gath.
And David and his men lived with Achish at Gath, each with his family. When Saul was told that
David had fled to Gath, he gave up looking for him.

David said to Achish, "If now you will grant me the favor, give me a place in one of the towns
in the open country, that I may live there; for why should your servant live in the royal city
with you?" David answered, "Against the South Country of Judah, or against the South Country
of the Jerahmeelites, or against the South Country of the Kenites." And Achish trusted David,
thinking, "He has made his people Israel hate him; therefore he will be my servant forever."

Now in those days the Philistines gathered their forces to make war against Israel. And Achish
said to David, "You and your men shall surely go with me in the army." David replied, "You
shall then know what your servant can do." Achish said to David, "In that case I will make
you the captain of my body-guard from this time on."

Then the Philistines gathered all their forces at Aphek, and the Israelites camped at the fountain
in Jezreel. When the rulers of the Philistines were marching past, by hundreds and by thousands,
and David and his men were marching in the rear with Achish, the commanders of the Philistines
said, "What are those Hebrews doing here?" Achish said to them, "Is this not David, the servant
of Saul the ruler of Israel, who has been with me these two years, and I have found no fault
in him from the time that he came to me to the present?"

But the commanders of the Philistines were displeased and said to him, "Send the man back to
the place where you had stationed him. Go back home, therefore, in peace, that you may do nothing
to displease the rulers of the Philistines." David said to Achish, "But what have I done? Do
not plan any evil, for I trust you, but rise early in the morning and, as soon as it is light,
depart."

So David and his men arose early in the morning to return to the Philistine land, but the Philistines
went up to Jezreel.

On the third day, when David and his men returned to Ziklag, the Amalekites had made a raid
on the South Country and on Ziklag, and had attacked Ziklag and burned it with fire, and had
also carried away captive all who were in it, including the women and children. They had not
killed any but had carried them away with them. Then David and the people who were with him
wept aloud until they were no longer able to weep.

David was in great trouble, for the people spoke of stoning him, because they all felt bitter,
having lost their sons and daughters: but David took courage, for he trusted in Jehovah his
God. So David with his six hundred followers went on to the Brook Besor, where those who were
too tired to cross the brook stayed behind.

They found there an Egyptian in the open field and brought him to David and gave him food to
eat and water to drink. Then David said to him, "To whom do you belong, and where do you come
from?" We marched into the South Country of the Cherethites and into that which belongs to
Judah and into the South Country of Caleb, and Ziklag we destroyed by fire." David said to
him, "Will you guide me to this robber band?" He replied, "Swear to me by your God, that you
will neither kill me nor turn me over to my master, and I will guide you to this band."

So David took from the Amalekites all that they had carried away and rescued his two wives;
nothing at all was missing. David answered, "My brothers, you shall not do so with that which
Jehovah has given us, after he has saved our lives and given this robber band that attacked
us into our power. Those who stay with the baggage shall have an equal share with those who
fight." So from that day to the present he made this a law and a rule in Israel.

When David came to Ziklag, he sent some of the spoil to the leaders of Judah and to his relatives,
saying, "See! a present for you from the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah."

THE DEATH OF TWO BRAVE WARRIORS

Samuel had died and all Israel had mourned for him and had buried him in his own town Ramah.
Saul, too, had put the mediums and those who had messages from the spirits of the dead out
of the land.

Then the Philistines came and camped in Shunem, and Saul gathered all the Israelites and camped
in Gilboa. But when he saw the army of the Philistines, he was terrified and filled with fear.
So he asked of Jehovah whether he should go against them, but Jehovah did not answer him either
by dream or by lot or by the prophets. Then Saul said to his servants, "Find for me a woman
who is a medium, that I may go and ask through her." His servants said to him, "There is such
a woman at Endor."

So Saul did not let any one know who he was, but put on other clothes and went, taking two
men with him. And they came to the woman at night. He said, "Ask for me through some departed
spirit and bring up for me the one for whom I shall ask." The woman said to him, "You know
what Saul has done, how he has driven from the land the mediums and those who have messages
from the spirits of the dead. Why then are you trying to catch me, to put me to death?" But
Saul swore to her by Jehovah, saying, "As surely as Jehovah lives, no punishment will come
to you from this act." Then the woman said, "Whom shall I bring up to you?" Saul said, "Bring
up Samuel."

When the woman saw Samuel, she screamed and said to Saul, "Why have you deceived me, for you
are Saul?" Saul asked, "What does he look like?" She said, "An old man is coming up, and he
is wrapped in a cloak." Then Saul knew that it was Samuel; and he bowed with his face to the
earth and worshipped.

Samuel said to Saul, "Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up?" Saul answered, "I am in
great trouble, for the Philistines are making war against me, and God has turned from me and
answers me no more, neither by prophets nor by dreams. So I have called you to tell me what
I shall do." Samuel said, "Why do you ask of me when Jehovah has turned from you and become
your enemy? He has taken the authority from your hand and given it to another, even to David.
To-morrow you, with your sons beside you, shall fall, and Jehovah will deliver the army of
Israel into the power of the Philistines."

Then Saul fell at full length upon the earth, for the words of Samuel filled him with fear,
so he had no strength left, for he had not eaten any food all that day and night. When the
woman came to Saul and saw that he was in great trouble, she said to him, "See, I have taken
my life in my hand and have done what you asked me. Now therefore, listen also to my advice
and let me set before you a little food, and eat that you may have strength to go on your way."
Saul refused and said, "I will not eat"; but his servants, as well as the woman, urged him,
until he listened to their advice. Then he rose from the earth and sat upon the couch. And
the woman had a fat calf in the house which she quickly killed. And she took flour and kneaded
it and baked from it bread without yeast. Then Saul said to his armor-bearer, "Draw your sword
and kill me with it, so that these heathen Philistines may not come and make sport of me."
So Saul and his three sons and his armor-bearer died on the same day.

When the Israelites who were in the towns of the lowland and across the Jordan saw that the
Israelites had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they left their towns and fled, and
the Philistines came and took them. And they put his armor in the temple of Ashtarte and fastened
his body on the wall of Bethshan. Then they took their bones and buried them under the oak-tree
in Jabesh and ate no food for seven days. David said to him, "Where do you come from?" He answered,
"I have escaped from the camp of Israel." David said to him, "How did the battle go? Tell me."
He answered, "The people fled from the battle-field, and many of them fell, and Saul and Jonathan
his son are dead!"

Then David and all the men who were with him tore their clothes and mourned and wept and went
without food until evening, because Saul and Jonathan his son and the people of Jehovah had
fallen by the sword.

David then sang this dirge over Saul and Jonathan:

        "Weep, O Judah!
         Grieve, O Israel!
         On your heights are the slain!
         How the mighty have fallen!

        "O Jonathan, your death has mortally wounded me,
         O Jonathan, my brother, for you I am sorrowing.

A SHEPHERD BOY WHO WAS CALLED TO LEAD A NATION

After this David asked of Jehovah, "Shall I go up into one of the towns of Judah?" Jehovah
answered, "Go up." When David asked, "To which shall I go?" he said, "To Hebron." So David
went up with his two wives, Ahinoam and Abigail. And David brought the men who were with him,
each with his family, and they lived in the towns about Hebron. Even so may Jehovah show kindness
and faithfulness to you. I also will repay you for this kind deed which you have done. Therefore
be brave and courageous; for Saul your master is dead, and the people of Judah have made me
ruler over them."

Now Abner, the commander of Saul's army, had taken Ishbaal the son of Saul and brought him
over to Mahanaim and made him ruler over Gilead and all Israel. But the people of Judah remained
loyal to David.

There was constant war between the followers of Saul and those of David. But David kept growing
stronger while the followers of Saul grew weaker.

Then Rechab and Baanah, the sons of Rimmon, went about midday to the palace of Ishbaal, as
he was taking his rest at noon. The doorkeeper of the palace was cleaning wheat, but he grew
drowsy and slept. So Rechab and Baanah his brother slipped in and, attacking Ishbaal, they
killed him and cut off his head.

Then all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and said, "See, we are your relatives.
When Saul was ruler over us, it was you who led the Israelites, and Jehovah has said to you,
'You shall be shepherd of my people Israel, and you shall become the leader of Israel.'" So
all the leading men of Israel came to David, and he made an agreement with them in Hebron in
the presence of Jehovah, and they made David ruler over Israel. David was thirty years old
when he began to rule and he ruled forty years.

When the Philistines heard that they had made David ruler over Israel, all the Philistines
went up to search for David; but when he heard of this he went down to the fortress.

Three of David's thirty warriors went down to him to the top of the rock, to the fortress of
Adullam, while a force of the Philistines was camped in the Valley of Rephaim. David was at
that time in the fortress, and a company of the Philistines was in Bethlehem. And David said,
longingly, "O that some one would bring me a drink of water from the well of Bethlehem which
is near the gate!" This is the blood of the men who went at the risk of their lives." Therefore
he would not drink it.

When the Philistines came and spread out over the Valley of Rephaim, David asked of Jehovah:
"Shall I go out against the Philistines? Wilt thou give them into my hand?" Jehovah said to
David, "Go; for I will certainly give the Philistines into your hand." So David went to Baal-perazim,
and defeated them there; and he said, "Jehovah has broken down my enemies before me, like waters
which break through their banks."

Then the Philistines came up again and spread out over the Valley of Rephaim. When David asked
of Jehovah, he said, "You shall not make a direct attack. Go around behind them and attack
them opposite the balsam-trees. When you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the balsams,
act quickly, for then Jehovah will have gone out before you to overthrow the army of the Philistines."
David did as Jehovah commanded him and drove the Philistines from Gibeon as far as Gezer.

JERUSALEM MADE THE CAPITAL CITY

David and his men went to Jerusalem against the Jebusites, the people of the land who had said
to David, "You shall not come in here, for the blind and the lame will turn you back," for
they thought, "David cannot come in here."

But David took the fortress of Zion, and lived there. He also built a wall around it, and called
it the City of David.

David continued to grow more powerful, for Jehovah of hosts was with him. And Hiram, king of
Tyre, sent messengers to him, and cedar-trees and carpenters and masons, and they built a palace
for him. So David knew that Jehovah had made him ruler over Israel and his kingdom powerful
for the sake of his people Israel.

David again gathered all the chief men of Israel, thirty thousand in all, and went with all
the people to Baal-Judah, to bring up from there the ark of God. Uzzah went beside the ark
of God, while Ahio went before it. David and all the people of Israel danced before Jehovah
with all their might to the music of harps and lyres and drums and castanets and cymbals.

When they came to the threshing-floor of Nachon, Uzzah stretched out his hand to hold up the
ark of God, for the oxen stumbled. Then the anger of Jehovah was aroused against Uzzah and
he struck him down there, because he had stretched out his hand to the ark; so he died there
in the presence of God. David was afraid of Jehovah that day, and said, "How can the ark of
Jehovah come to me?" But Jehovah blessed Obed-edom and all his family.

When the report came to David, "Jehovah has blessed Obed-edom and all his family because of
the ark of God," David joyfully brought up the ark from the house of Obed-edom to the City
of David. When the bearers of the ark of Jehovah had gone six paces, David offered an ox and
a fat animal as a sacrifice; and he danced before Jehovah with all his might, and he had about
his waist a priestly garment made of linen. So David and all the house of Israel brought up
the ark of Jehovah with shouting and the blare of trumpets.

When they had brought in the ark of Jehovah and had set it in its place in the tent that David
had built for it, he offered burnt-offerings and sacrifices to Jehovah. When David had finished
offering these sacrifices, he blessed the people in the name of Jehovah of hosts and gave to
each of the many Israelites who were there, to both men and women, a roll of bread, a portion
of meat, and a cake of raisins. Then all the people went back to their homes.

This message also from Jehovah came to Nathan, the prophet: "You shall say to my servant David:
'Jehovah of hosts declares, I took you from the pasture from following the sheep to be chief
over my people Israel. I have been with you wherever you went, to destroy all your enemies
before you, and I will make you a name, like that of the great in the earth. When your life
is ended and you are buried with your fathers, I will raise up your son after you, and I will
make his rule strong. I will be a father to him, and he shall be my son. When he goes astray
I will gently correct him. I will not withdraw my favor from him as I withdrew it from Saul.
Your house and your dominion shall always stand firm before me; your authority shall stand
forever.'"

DAVID'S KINDNESS TO JONATHAN'S SON

Then David asked, "Is any one left of the family of Saul to whom I may show kindness for Jonathan's
sake?" And there was a servant of Saul named Ziba. When they called him before David, he said
to him, "Are you Ziba?" He replied, "Your servant." David said, "Is there any one else belonging
to the family of Saul to whom I may show kindness like that which God shows to us?" Ziba answered,
"A son of Jonathan is still living, but he is lame in his feet." David inquired, "Where is
he?" Ziba replied, "He is in the house of Machir in Lodebar."

Then David sent and brought him from the house of Machir; and when Meribaal the son of Jonathan
came to David, he bowed down to the ground before him. David said, "Meribaal!" He answered,
"Here is your servant!" David said to him, "Fear not, for I will surely show you kindness for
the sake of your father Jonathan, and I will give back to you all the land of your grandfather
Saul; and you shall always eat at my table." Meribaal bowed down and said, "What is your servant
that you should look favorably upon one as unworthy as I?"

Then David called to Ziba, Saul's servant, and said to him, "I have given to your master's
son all that belongs to Saul and to his family.

So Meribaal ate at David's table like one of his own sons. So Meribaal lived in Jerusalem,
and though he was lame in both feet, he always ate at David's table.

A RICH MAN WHO WAS A THIEF

One evening, while Joab was besieging Rabbath Ammon, David rose from his bed and walked upon
the roof of the royal palace. From the roof he saw a woman bathing; and she was very beautiful.
And David sent to ask about the woman; and some one said, "Is not this Bathsheba, the wife
of Uriah the Hittite?" Then David sent messengers to bring her; and she came to him, but later
returned to her home.

Then David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it by Uriah. In the letter, he said, "Place Uriah
in the front line where there is the fiercest fighting, then draw back from behind him, that
he may be struck down and die." So Joab, in posting guards over the city, sent Uriah to the
place where he knew there were brave men. When the men of the city went out to fight against
Joab, some of the soldiers of David fell, and Uriah the Hittite was killed.

Then Joab sent to tell David all about the war, and he gave this command to the messenger:
"If, after you have finished telling the ruler all about the war, he is angry and says to you,
'Why did you go so near to the city to fight? Did you not know that they would shoot from the
wall? Who struck down Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal? Then David said to the messenger, "Say
to Joab, 'Let not this thing trouble you, for the sword takes one and then another. Go on fighting
against the city and capture it,' and encourage him."

When Bathsheba heard that Uriah her husband was dead, she mourned for him as was the custom.
When the mourning was over, David sent for her, and she became his wife and she had a son.

What David had done displeased Jehovah and he sent the prophet Nathan to David. He fed it,
and it grew up with him and with his children. It used to eat of his own small supply of food
and drink out of his own cup, and it lay in his bosom and was like a daughter to him.

"Now a traveller came to the rich man; and he spared his own flock and did not take an animal
from it nor from his own herd to make ready for the traveller who had come to him, but took
the poor man's lamb and prepared it for the guest who had come."

Then David was very angry, and he said to Nathan, "As surely as Jehovah lives, the man who
has done this deserves to die; he shall repay seven times the value of the lamb, because he
showed no pity."

Nathan said to David, "You are the man! If that were too little, I would add as much again.
Now, therefore, the sword shall never cease to smite your family, because you have despised
me and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife.'"

David said to Nathan, "I have sinned against Jehovah!" Then Nathan said to David, "Jehovah
has also put away your sin so that you shall not die. Yet, because by this deed you have shown
contempt for Jehovah, the child that is born shall surely die." Then Nathan went to his house.

And Jehovah smote Bathsheba's child so that it fell sick. David prayed to God for the child,
and ate no food but went in and lay all night in sackcloth upon the earth. The older men in
his house stood over him to raise him up from the earth; but he would not rise nor eat with
them. How can we tell him that the child is dead, for he will do some harm!"

But when David saw that his servants were whispering together, he knew that the child was dead,
and said to his servants, "Is the child dead?" They replied, "He is dead." Then David rose
from the earth, washed and put oil on himself, changed his clothes, and went into the temple
of Jehovah and worshipped. After that he went to his own house; and he asked for bread, and
when they set it before him, he ate.

His servants said to him, "What is this you have done? You ate no food and cried for the child
while it was alive, but when the child died, you rose and ate bread." He replied, "While the
child was yet alive, I ate no food and cried aloud, for I said, 'Who knows whether Jehovah
will have mercy, so that the child will live?' But now that he is dead, why should I eat no
food? Can I bring him back? I am going to him, but he will not come back to me." He used to
rise early and stand beside the highway which led to the city gate. He would call to him every
man who had a suit that was to come before the ruler for judgment and say, "Of what city are
you?" When the man replied, "Your servant is from one of the tribes of Israel," Absalom would
say to him, "Your claims are good and right; but the ruler has not appointed any one to hear
you. Oh, that some one would make me judge in the land, so that every man who has any complaint
or cause would come to me, and I would see that he received justice!" And whenever a man came
near to bow before him, he would put out his hand and take hold of him and kiss him. In this
way Absalom treated all the Israelites who came to David for justice. Thus, Absalom stole from
David the hearts of the Israelites.

At the end of four years, Absalom said to his father, "I should like to go and keep my promise,
which I have made to Jehovah in Hebron." David said to him, "Go in peace." Absalom also sent
for Ahithophel, David's adviser, from the city of Giloh, while he was offering the sacrifices.
Go at once, or he may quickly overtake us and bring evil upon us and kill the people of the
city." Then David's servants said to him, "It shall be done as our lord wishes; we are your
servants."

So David and all the people who followed him went out and stood at the last house, while all
the officers and the royal body-guard and all the men of Ittai the Gittite, the six hundred
who had followed him from Gath, passed on before him.

Then David said to Ittai, "Why do you also go with us? Go back and stay with the new ruler,
for you are a foreigner and away from your own land. Yesterday you came, and to-day shall I
make you go up and down the land with us, while I go where I may? Go back and take your men
with you, and may Jehovah show you kindness and faithfulness." But Ittai answered, "As surely
as Jehovah lives and as my lord the ruler of Israel lives, wherever my lord is, whether dead
or living, there your servant will be!" David said to Ittai, "March on." So Ittai marched on
with all his men and with all the children who were with him.

All the people were weeping aloud while David stood in the Kidron valley, and they went by
before him on the way to the wilderness. And Zadok and Abiathar came carrying the ark of Jehovah
and set it down until all the people had passed. Then David said to Zadok, "Carry the ark of
God back into the city. If I win Jehovah's favor, he will bring me back and show me both it
and the place where he dwells. But if he declares, 'I have no trust in you, then here am I,
let him do to me as he thinks best.'" So Zadok and Abiathar carried the ark of God back to
Jerusalem and stayed there.

But David went up, weeping as he climbed the Mount of Olives with his head covered and his
feet bare. All the people who were with him covered their heads and went up, weeping as they went.

And when David came to the summit, where one worships God, Hushai the Archite with his garment
torn and earth upon his head, came to meet him. David said to him, "If you go on with me you
will be a burden to me. But if you go back to the city, and say to Absalom, 'Your brothers
have gone away and your father has gone after them; I will be your servant, O king; as I have
been your father's servant in the past, so now I will be your servant,' you can defeat for
me the advice of Ahithophel. And have you not there with you Zadok and Abiathar the priests?

And Absalom, with all the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem, and Ahithophel was with him. When
Hushai, David's friend, came to Absalom, Hushai said to him, "May the king live, may the king
live!" But Absalom said to Hushai, "Is this your love for your friend? Why did you not go with
your friend?" Hushai answered, "No! to him whom Jehovah and his people and all the men of Israel
have chosen, to him will I belong and with him will I stay. Also whom should I serve? Should
it not be his son? As I have served your father, so will I serve you."

The advice which Ahithophel gave in those days was thought by David and Absalom to be the same
as if it had come from God himself. And Ahithophel said to Absalom, "Let me now pick out twelve
thousand men, and set out and follow David to-night. Thus I will come upon him when he is tired
and weak and will frighten him, and all the people who are with him will flee. Then I will
kill only the king, and I will bring back all the people to you as the bride turns to her husband.
Seek only the life of one man, and all the people will be at peace." This advice pleased Absalom
and all the leaders of Israel.

Then Absalom said, "Call now Hushai and let us hear also what he has to say." When Hushai came
to Absalom, Absalom said to him, "Thus Ahithophel has spoken; shall we act as he advises? If
not, you advise us." Then Hushai said to Absalom, "The advice that Ahithophel has given this
time is not good. You know that your father and his men are mighty warriors and are now angry,
like a bear robbed of her cubs. Your father is also a soldier and will not stay at night with
the people. Even now he has hidden himself in one of the caves or in some other place. If some
of the people fall at first, whoever hears it will say, 'There is a slaughter among the people
who follow Absalom.' Then even he who is brave, whose heart is like the heart of a lion, will
completely lose courage; for all Israel knows that your father is a great warrior, and they
who are with him are brave men. But I advise, let all the Israelites be gathered to you, from
Dan to Beersheba, as many as the sand that is by the sea, with you yourself marching in the
midst of them. In this way we will come upon him in some place where he will be found, and
we will fall upon him as the dew falls on the ground; and of him and of all the men who are
with him not even one shall be left. So now send quickly and say to David, 'Do not spend this
night at the fords of the wilderness, but by all means cross over, for fear that David and
all the people with him be killed.'"

Now Jonathan and Ahimaaz were staying at Enrogel; and a maid-servant was to go and bring them
news, and they were to go and tell David, for they must not be seen coming into the city. But
a boy saw them and told Absalom. Then they both went away quickly and entered into the house
of a man in Bahurim, who had a well in his courtyard into which they descended. The women took
and spread the covering over the mouth of the well, and scattered dried fruit upon it, so that
nothing was known. When they had searched and could find nothing, they returned to Jerusalem.

But as soon as the men had gone away, Ahimaaz and Jonathan came up out of the well, and went
and told David and said, "Get up, cross quickly over the water, for so has Ahithophel advised
in regard to you." Then David and all the people who were with him rose and crossed the Jordan.
By daybreak there was not one left behind.

A BROKEN-HEARTED FATHER

After Absalom and all the men of Israel crossed the Jordan, David counted the troops who were
with him, and put over them commanders of thousands and of hundreds. And he divided the troops
into three divisions; one was under the command of Joab, another under Abishai, and another
under the command of Ittai. Then David said to the people, "I too will surely go out with you."
But the people said, "You shall not go out; for if we are defeated, or if half of us die, it
will make no difference, for you are equal to ten thousand of us. It is therefore more important
for you to be ready to help us from the city." David said to them, "I will do what you think
best!" So he stood beside the gate, while all the troops marched out by hundreds and by thousands.

So the troops went out into the field against Israel. The battle was fought in the forest of
Ephraim. And the soldiers of Israel were defeated there by those who were loyal to David, and
the loss of life on that day was great--twenty thousand men. The battle spread over the whole
country; and the dense thickets killed more people than were killed by the sword.

Absalom happened to meet the soldiers of David while riding upon his mule, and the mule went
under the thick branches of a great oak, and Absalom's head caught fast in the oak, and he
was hung between heaven and earth, while the mule that was under him went on. Why did you not
strike him to the ground? I would have given you ten pieces of silver and a belt." But the
man said to Joab, "If I were to feel the weight of a thousand pieces of silver in my hand,
I would not raise my hand against the ruler's son, for in our hearing he commanded you and
Abishai and Ittai, 'Take care of the young man Absalom.' If I had treacherously taken his life,
nothing would have been hidden from the ruler of Israel, and you yourself would not have tried
to save me." Joab answered, "I will not waste time with you."

So he took three spears in his hand and drove them into Absalom's heart, while he was still
alive in the midst of the oak. Then Joab said to a negro slave, "Go, tell the ruler of Israel
what you have seen." And the negro bowed before Joab and ran off.

Now David was sitting between the two gates, and when the negro came, he said, "Let my lord
receive the good news; Jehovah has punished for you this day all those who rose up against
you.'" David said to the negro, "Is it well with the young Absalom?" The negro answered, "May
the enemies of my lord and all who rebel against you to harm you be as that young man!"

Then David was very sad and went up to the chamber over the gate and wept. And it was reported
to Joab, "The ruler of Israel is weeping and mourning for Absalom." So for all the people the
victory that day was turned to mourning, because they heard that David was mourning for his
son. Therefore, the people stole away into the city, as people who are ashamed steal away when
they have run away in battle. But David covered his face and cried aloud, "My son Absalom,
Absalom, my son, my son!"

HOW SOLOMON BECAME THE RULER OF ISRAEL

Now when David was old, Adonijah thought, "I will be ruler of Israel." Adonijah was very good-looking
and was the next younger son after Absalom. He also had made an agreement with Joab and with
Abiathar the priest to help him. But Zadok the priest and Benaiah and Nathan the prophet, as
well as Shimei and Rei and David's famous warriors, were not on his side.

Adonijah held a feast and killed for it sheep, oxen, and fat beasts by the Serpent's Stone,
which is beside the Fuller's Spring; and he invited to the feast all his brothers and all the
royal officials of Judah; but he did not invite the prophet Nathan nor Benaiah nor the famous
warriors nor his brother Solomon.

Then Nathan said to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon, "Have you not heard that Adonijah has
been made ruler without David our lord knowing it? Now, therefore, let me advise you that you
may save your own life and the life of your son Solomon. Go at once to David and say to him,
'Did you not, my lord, solemnly promise your servant that Solomon your son should rule after
you? Why then has Adonijah been made ruler?' While you are still talking with him, I will come
in and repeat your words."

So Bathsheba went into David's room; he was very old, and Abishag the Shunamite was caring
for him. When David said, "What do you wish?" she said to him, "My lord, you solemnly promised
your servant by Jehovah: 'Solomon your son shall rule after me.' But now Adonijah has been
made ruler without your knowledge, my lord! Now, my lord, all the Israelites are looking to
you, to tell them who shall rule after you. If you do not tell them, then, when my lord dies,
I and my son Solomon will be treated as criminals."

While she was still talking with David, Nathan the prophet came in. And they told David, "Nathan
the prophet is here." So he came in and bowed before David with his face to the ground. Then
Nathan said, "My lord, have you said, 'Adonijah shall rule after me?' For he has gone down
this day and killed many oxen and fat beasts and sheep and has invited all your sons and the
commanders of the army and Abiathar the priest; and there they are eating and drinking before
him and saying, 'May the new ruler Adonijah live!' But he has not invited me, even me your
servant, nor Zadok, the priest, nor Benaiah nor your servant Solomon. If you have done this,
my lord, you have failed to show your servants who is to rule after my lord."

David answered, "Call Bathsheba to me." So she came in and stood before him. Then David made
this solemn promise; "As surely as Jehovah lives, who has delivered me from all trouble, as
I have solemnly promised to you by Jehovah, the God of Israel, saying, 'Solomon your son shall
rule after me'; so I will certainly do to-day." Then Bathsheba bowed her face to the earth
and said, "May my lord live forever." Benaiah answered David, "So may it be! May Jehovah confirm
the words of my lord. Then all the people followed him and the people played on flutes and
rejoiced so loudly that the earth seemed to be shaken by the sound that they made.

Adonijah and all the guests who were with him heard it just as they had finished eating. And
they were terrified and each rose up and went away. But Adonijah in his fear of Solomon went
and caught hold of the horns of the altar. So Solomon had him brought from the altar. And he
came and bowed before Solomon the ruler. And Solomon said to him, "Go to your home."

Then David died and was buried in the City of David, after having ruled over Israel forty years.

A YOUNG MAN'S WISE CHOICE

Solomon went to Gibeon to offer a sacrifice there, for that was the great high place. He offered
upon that altar a thousand animals as a burnt-offering.

In Gibeon Jehovah appeared to Solomon in a dream by night and said, "Ask what I shall give
you." Solomon said, "Thou hast showed to thy servant David my father great kindness. Now, O
Jehovah my God, thou hast made thy servant ruler in the place of David my father, although
I am but a child who does not know how to go out or come in. Give thy servant, therefore, an
understanding mind to rule thy people, that I may see clearly what is good and what is evil;
for who is able to rule this thy great people?"

Jehovah was pleased that Solomon had asked this; and God said to him, "Because you have asked
this and have not asked for yourself long life nor riches nor the life of your enemies, but
have asked for yourself understanding to see clearly what is just, I have now granted what
you ask; I have given you a wise and understanding mind. I have also given you that which you
have not asked, both riches and honor." When Solomon awoke, he found that it was a dream; and
he returned to Jerusalem.

Once two women came to Solomon and stood before him. The one woman said, "Oh, my lord, this
woman and I live in the same house. While with her in the house I had a child.

"Then she rose at midnight and took my son from beside me, while your servant slept, and laid
it on her breast and laid her dead child on mine. When I rose at dawn to nurse my child, there
it was dead; but when I looked at it closely in the morning, I found that it was not my son."
Then the other woman said, "No; the living is my son, and the dead child is your son." So they
quarrelled before Solomon.

Then Solomon said, "One says, 'This one who is alive is my son, and your son is dead.' But
the other says, 'No; your son is dead, and my son is the one that is alive.' Bring me a sword."
So they brought him a sword. At that the woman to whom the living child belonged spoke to Solomon--for
she loved her son with all her heart--and said, "Oh, my lord, give her the living child and
on no account put it to death." But the other said, "It shall be neither mine nor yours! Divide
it!" Then Solomon said, "Give the first woman the living child, and on no account put it to
death; she is its mother."

When all Israel heard of the decision which Solomon had given, they had great respect for him,
for they saw that he had divine wisdom to decide questions justly.

BUILDING A GREAT TEMPLE

In the fourth year of Solomon's rule over Israel he built the temple of Jehovah. The temple
was ninety feet long, thirty feet wide, and forty-five feet high. The porch before the large
room of the temple was thirty feet wide and fifteen feet deep. Solomon made windows for the
temple with casings, broad on the inside and narrow on the outside. Against the wall of the
temple on the outside Solomon built wings, both around the larger room and the inner room,
and made side-chambers around the temple.

The entrance to the lower side-chambers was on the south side of the temple. Winding stairs
led to the second floor, and from the second to the third. Solomon built the wings against
the sides of the temple, each seven and a half feet high; and they were joined to the temple
with timbers of cedar.

He covered the walls of the temple on the inside with boards of cedar from the floor of the
temple to the rafters: and he covered the floor of the temple with boards of cypress.

He also made a room thirty feet square in the back part of the temple with boards of cedar
reaching from the floor to the rafters. He built it as an inner room, even as the most holy
place. The temple, that is the large room in front of the inner room, was sixty feet long.
And there was cedar inside the temple with carving in the form of gourds and open flowers.
All was cedar, no stone was seen. Solomon prepared the inner room as a place for the ark.

In the inner room Solomon made two winged bulls of olive wood. The height of each was fifteen
feet. Each of their wings measured seven and a half feet across, fifteen feet from the end
of one wing to the end of the other. He set these up in the inner room of the temple; and their
wings were stretched out so that the wing of the one touched the one wall, while the wing of
the other touched the other wall, and their wings touched each other in the middle of the temple;
and he covered them with gold.

Then Solomon gathered in Jerusalem the leaders of Israel to bring up the ark of Jehovah out
of Zion, the City of David, at the time of the autumn festival in September. When all the leaders
of Israel had come, the priests took up the ark and the tent of meeting and all the sacred
vessels that were in the tent. So the priests brought in the ark of Jehovah to its place in
the inner room of the temple under the wings of the winged bulls. There was nothing in the
ark except the two tables of stone which Moses put there at Horeb. And when the priests came
out from the inner room, the cloud filled the temple of Jehovah, so that the priests could
not stand and perform their service on account of the cloud, for the glory of Jehovah filled
his temple.

Then Solomon said:

        "Jehovah has set the sun in the heavens,
         But has said that he will dwell in thick darkness.
         So I have built thee a temple as a lofty dwelling,
         A place for thee to abide in forever."

"But will God actually dwell on earth? Indeed heaven and the highest heaven cannot hold thee;
how much less this temple that I have built!"

A RULER WHO WRONGED HIS PEOPLE

Solomon was building his palace thirteen years before he finished it. He also built the throne-hall
where he judged the people. This room was the Hall of Judgment; and it was covered with cedar
from floor to ceiling.

His palace where he lived, in another court farther in from the Hall of Judgment, was of the
same workmanship. He made a palace, too, similar to this hall, for Pharaoh's daughter whom
he had married. All these buildings were of costly stones, hewn according to measurements,
sawed with saws, both on the inside and outside.

When the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she came to test him with puzzling questions.
So she came to Jerusalem with a very large number of servants, with camels that carried spices
and a great amount of gold and precious stones. As soon as she came to Solomon, she told him
all that was in her mind. And Solomon answered all her questions: nothing was too difficult
for him to answer.

When the queen of Sheba had seen all the wisdom of Solomon, the palace that he had built, the
food on his table, the housing of his officers, the way his waiters served him, their clothing,
his cup-bearers, and the burnt-offering which he offered at the temple of Jehovah, she was
greatly surprised. She said to Solomon, "What I heard in my own land of your acts and of your
wisdom was true. But I would not believe the words until I came and saw with my own eyes; but
as it is, the half was not told me; your wisdom and prosperity are even greater than what was
reported to me."

Now Solomon loved women; and he married many foreign wives--Moabites, Canaanites, Edomites,
Sidonians, Hittites, and Ammonites. He had seven hundred wives of princely birth, and three
hundred concubines. When Solomon was old, his wives influenced him to worship other gods, and
he was not loyal to Jehovah his God. Solomon built a place of worship for Chemosh, the god
of Moab, on the hill that is opposite Jerusalem, and for Milcom, the god of the Ammonites.
He did the same for all his foreign wives, burning incense and offering sacrifices to their gods.

Then God raised up as a foe against him Rezon, the son of Eliada, who had fled from his master,
Hadadezer, king of Zobah. He gathered men about him and became commander of a robber band,
and he went to Damascus and lived and reigned there. He was a foe to Israel as long as Solomon
lived.

Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, was a man of great ability. When Solomon saw that the young man
was industrious, he placed him over all the men of the tribe of Joseph who were working for
the ruler.

Once upon a time, when Jeroboam went away from Jerusalem, the prophet Ahijah of Shiloh met
him on the way and took him aside. So Jeroboam also rebelled against Solomon.

REHOBOAM'S GREAT MISTAKE

When Solomon died, Rehoboam his son ruled after him. As soon as Jeroboam, who was still in
Egypt, heard that Solomon had died, he returned at once to his home town, Zeredah in Mount Ephraim.

Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all the Israelites had come to Shechem to make him ruler. But
they said to Rehoboam, "Your father laid a heavy yoke upon us. Now make the hard service of
your father and the heavy yoke that he laid upon us lighter, and we will serve you." He said
to them, "Go away for three days; then come again to me." So the people went away.

Then Rehoboam asked advice from the old men who had been in the service of Solomon his father
during his lifetime and inquired, "What answer do you advise me to give this people?" They
said to him, "If now you will serve this people and give them a favorable answer, then they
will be your servants forever."

But he rejected the advice which the old men had given him and asked the young men who had
grown up with him and had been in his service. And he said to them, "What answer do you advise
that we give to this people who have said to me, 'Make the yoke that your father laid upon
us lighter'?" The young men who had grown up with him said to him, "Make this answer to them:
'My little finger is thicker than my father's loins! While my father loaded you with a heavy
yoke, I will make your yoke heavier; my father punished you with whips, but I will punish you
with scourges.'" So Rehoboam paid no attention to the demand of the people.

When all Israel saw that he paid no attention to their demand they gave him this answer: "What
interest have we in David?

So the Israelites went to their homes.

Then Rehoboam sent to them Adoniram, who was over the men who did forced labor. But when all
the Israelites stoned him to death, Rehoboam quickly mounted his chariot and fled to Jerusalem.
So Israel has refused to obey the house of David to the present day.

As soon as all Israel heard that Jeroboam had returned, they sent and called him to the assembly
of the people and made him ruler over all Israel. None remained loyal to the house of David
except the tribe of Judah.

ELIJAH AND THE WIDOW'S SON

When Asa had been ruler of Judah for thirty-one years Omri became ruler over Israel, and he
ruled twelve years.

When Omri died, Ahab his son ruled in his place. But Ahab displeased Jehovah more than all
the kings who had ruled before him. He married Jezebel, the daughter of Ethbaal, king of the
Sidonians, and then began to worship the Phœnician god Baal. He also built an altar for Baal
in the temple of Baal, which he built in Samaria.

Then Elijah from Tishbe in Gilead said to Ahab, "As surely as Jehovah the God of Israel lives,
whom I serve, there shall be no dew nor rain for years except as I announce it."

So he obeyed the command of Jehovah and lived near the Brook Cherith. The ravens brought him
bread every morning and meat every evening, and he drank from the brook. But after a while
the brook dried up, for there had been no rain in the land.

Then this message from Jehovah came to him, "Arise, go to Zarephath which belongs to Sidon,
and live there. I have commanded a widow there to provide for you." So he went to Zarephath.

When he came to the gate of the city, a widow was there gathering sticks. Calling to her, he
said, "Bring me, I beg of you, a little water in a vessel, that I may drink." As she was going
to get it, he called after her, "Bring also a bit of bread with you." She replied, "As surely
as Jehovah your God lives, I have nothing baked, and only one handful of meal in the jar and
a little oil in the jug. Now I am gathering a few sticks, that I may go in and prepare it for
myself and my son, that we may eat it and die." Elijah said to her, "Fear not; go and do as
you have said, but first bake for me a little dough and bring it to me. Afterward make some
for yourself and your son. For Jehovah the God of Israel declares: 'The jar of meal shall not
be empty, nor the jug of oil fail, until Jehovah sends rain upon the earth.'"

So she did as Elijah directed; and she and her child, as well as Elijah, had food to eat. From
that day the jar of meal was never empty and the jug of oil did not fail, as Jehovah had said
through Elijah.

Now after this the woman's son fell sick; and his sickness was so severe that he stopped breathing.
So she said to Elijah, "What have I to do with you, O man of God? You have come to me to remind
me of my sin by taking the life of my son!" He said to her, "Give me your son." So he took
him out of her arms and carried him up into the upper room where he was staying and laid him
on his own bed. Then he prayed earnestly to Jehovah and said, "O Jehovah, my God, hast thou
also brought misfortune upon this widow, with whom I am staying, by taking the life of her
son?" And he stretched himself upon the child three times and prayed to Jehovah and said, "O
Jehovah, my God, I pray thee, give back this child's life to him again."

So Jehovah listened to Elijah's prayer; and the life of the child came back to him, and he
sat up. Then Elijah took the child and brought him down from the upper room into the house
and gave him to his mother; and said, "See, your son lives!" The woman said to him, "Now I
know that you are a man of God and that the message of Jehovah that you speak is true." So
they divided the land between them, Ahab going in one direction and Obadiah in another.

While Obadiah was on the way, Elijah suddenly met him. But Obadiah said, "What sin have I done,
that you would give your servant over to Ahab to kill me? As surely as Jehovah your God lives,
there is no nation nor kingdom where my lord has not sent to find you; and when they said,
'He is not here,' he made each of the kingdoms and nations take an oath, that no one had found
you. Now you say, 'Go, tell your lord, Elijah is here!' As soon as I have left you the spirit
of Jehovah will carry you to a place unknown to me, so that when I come and tell Ahab and he
cannot find you, he will put me to death, although I, your servant, have been loyal to Jehovah
from my youth! Have you not been told what I did when Jezebel killed the prophets of Jehovah,
how I hid a hundred by fifties in a cave and fed them continually with bread and water?" Elijah
answered, "As surely as Jehovah of hosts lives, before whom I stand, I will show myself to
Ahab to-day."

So Obadiah went to Ahab and told him; and Ahab went to meet Elijah. As soon as Ahab saw Elijah,
he said to him, "Is it you, you who have brought trouble to Israel?" He answered, "I have not
brought trouble on Israel, but you and your father's house have; because you have failed to
follow the commands of Jehovah and have run after the Phœnician gods. Now therefore call together
to me at Mount Carmel all the Israelites and the four hundred and fifty prophets of the god
Baal who eat at Jezebel's table." If Jehovah is the true God, follow him, but if Baal, then
follow him." But the people were silent. Then Elijah said to the people, "I, even I only, am
left as a prophet of Jehovah, but there are four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal. Let us
take two oxen; let them choose one ox for themselves and cut it in pieces and lay it on the
wood, without lighting any fire, and I will dress the other ox and lay it on wood, without
lighting any fire. Then you call on your god and I will call on Jehovah. The god who answers
by fire is the true God." All the people answered and said, "It is a fair offer."

Then Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, "Choose one of the oxen for yourselves and dress
it first, for you are many, and call on your god, without lighting any fire." So they took
the ox which he gave them and dressed it, and called on their god from morning until noon,
saying, "O Baal, hear us." But there was no voice nor answer, although they leaped about the
altar which they had built.

When it was noon, Elijah mocked them, saying, "Call loudly, for he is a god; either he is thinking,
or he has gone out, or he is on a journey, or perhaps he is sleeping and must be awakened!"
Then they called loudly and cut themselves, as was their custom, with swords and lances until
the blood gushed out upon them. When noon was past, they cried out in frenzy until the time
of the offering of the evening sacrifice; but there was neither voice nor answer nor was any
attention paid to their cry.

Then Elijah said to all the people, "Come near to me." And all the people drew near to him,
and he rebuilt the altar of Jehovah which had been thrown down. Then around the altar he made
a ditch that would hold about two bushels of seed. But Elijah commanded them, "Take the prophets
of Baal; do not let one of them escape!" So they took them down to the Brook Kishon and there
put them to death. So the servant went back seven times, but the seventh time he said, "There
is a cloud as small as a man's hand rising out of the sea." In a little while the heavens grew
black with clouds and wind, and there was a heavy rain. And as Ahab rode toward Jezreel, Elijah
was given divine strength, so that he tightened his belt and ran before Ahab to the entrance
to Jezreel.

GOD'S LOW WHISPER

Now when Ahab told Jezebel that Elijah had put the prophets to death with the sword, she sent
a messenger to Elijah, saying, "As surely as you are Elijah and I am Jezebel, may the gods
do to me what they will and more too, if I do not make your life as the life of one of those
prophets by to-morrow about this time."

Then he lay down and slept under the desert tree, but an angel touched him and said to him,
"Rise, eat!" When he looked, he saw there at his head a loaf, baked on hot stones, and a jar
of water. So he ate and drank and lay down again. But the angel of Jehovah came again the second
time and touched him and said, "Rise, eat, or else the journey will be too long for you."

Then Jehovah passed by, and a very violent wind tore the mountain apart and broke the rocks
in pieces before Jehovah; but Jehovah was not in the wind. And after the wind an earthquake;
but Jehovah was not in the earthquake. And after the earthquake a fire; but Jehovah was not
in the fire. After the fire there was the sound of a low whisper. Then he heard a voice saying,
"What are you doing here, Elijah?"

Then Jehovah said to him, "On your way back go to the wilderness of Damascus, and when you
arrive there, anoint Hazael to rule over Aram, Jehu, the son of Nimshi, to rule over Israel,
and Elisha, the son of Shaphat, to be prophet in your place. Then every one who escapes the
sword of Hazael, Jehu shall put to death; and every one who escapes the sword of Jehu, Elisha
shall put to death. Yet I will spare seven thousand in Israel--all who have not worshipped
Baal and kissed his image."

After he had left, Elijah found Elisha the son of Shaphat, as he was ploughing with twelve
pairs of oxen. When Elijah went up to him and threw his mantle upon him, he left the oxen and
ran after Elijah and said, "Let me kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow you."
Elijah said to him, "Go back, for what have I done to you?" So Elisha turned back and took
one pair of oxen and offered them as a sacrifice and, using the wooden ploughs and yokes as
fuel, boiled their flesh, and gave it to the people to eat. Then he arose and followed Elijah
and served him.

AHAB THE THIEF

Now Naboth, the Jezreelite, had a vineyard in Jezreel next to the palace of Ahab, who ruled
at Samaria. So Ahab said to Naboth, "Give me your vineyard, that I may have it as a vegetable-garden,
for it is near my palace; and I will give you a better vineyard for it; or, if it is more pleasing
to you, I will pay you its value in money." But Naboth answered Ahab, "May Jehovah save me
from the crime of giving you what has come down to me from my fathers!"

So Ahab went into his house sullen and in bad humor because of what Naboth had said to him.
And he lay down on his bed and covered his face and would eat no food.

But Jezebel his wife came to him and said, "Why are you in such bad humor that you will not
eat?" Rise, eat, and set your mind at rest. I will give you the vineyard of Naboth." In the
letters she wrote, "Proclaim a fast and put Naboth in front of the people. Then set up two
base men before him and let them bring this charge against him: 'You cursed God and the ruler
of Israel.' Then carry him out and stone him to death."

The leaders and officials of Naboth's city did as Jezebel commanded in her letters to them.
They proclaimed a fast and put Naboth in front of the people. Then the two base men came in
and sat before him, and the scoundrels in the presence of the people said, "Naboth cursed God
and the ruler of Israel." Then they carried him out of the city and stoned him to death. And
they told Jezebel, "Naboth has been stoned to death."

As soon as Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned to death, she said to Ahab, "Rise, take
the vineyard of Naboth which he refused to sell you, for Naboth is not alive but dead." As
soon as Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, he went down to the vineyard of Naboth to take it.
But this command came from Jehovah to Elijah, the Tishbite, "Rise, go down to meet Ahab, the
ruler of Israel, who lives in Samaria; he is just now in the vineyard of Naboth, where he has
gone to take it. Say to him, 'This is the message of Jehovah, "Have you killed and also taken
his vineyard? And Jehovah has declared: 'The dogs shall eat Jezebel in the district of Jezreel.'"

MICAIAH'S COURAGE IN TELLING THE TRUTH

For three years there was no war between Aram and Israel. But in the third year, when Jehoshaphat
the ruler of Judah came to visit the ruler of Israel, Ahab said to his followers, "Do you not
know that Ramoth in Gilead belongs to us; yet we sit still instead of taking it from the king
of Aram?" Then he asked Jehoshaphat, "Will you go with me to attack Ramoth in Gilead?" Jehoshaphat
replied, "I am with you, my people are as your people, my horses as your horses."

And Jehoshaphat said to the ruler of Israel, "Ask now what Jehovah has to say." So Ahab gathered
the prophets together (in all about four hundred men), and asked them, "Shall I go to fight
against Ramoth in Gilead or shall I not?" They said, "Go up; for Jehovah will give it into
your hands." But Jehoshaphat said, "Is there any other prophet of Jehovah, that we may ask
him?" The ruler of Israel answered, "There is another by whom we may ask of Jehovah, Micaiah,
the son of Imlah, but I hate him; for he prophesies for me nothing good, but only evil." Jehoshaphat
said, "Do not say so."

Then the ruler of Israel called a servant and said, "Bring quickly Micaiah, the son of Imlah."
The messenger who went to call Micaiah said to him, "See, the prophets have all of them promised
the ruler of Israel success. Agree with them, and prophesy success." But Micaiah said, "As
surely as Jehovah lives, I will speak what he says to me."

When he came to Ahab, he said to him, "Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth in Gilead to fight, or
shall we not?" He answered him, "Go up and conquer! Jehovah will give it into your hands!"
But Ahab said to him, "How many times shall I warn you to speak nothing to me in the name of
Jehovah but the truth?" He said, "I saw all the Israelites scattered upon the mountains as
sheep that have no shepherd. And Jehovah said, 'These have no master; let each of them go home
in peace!'"

The ruler of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "Did I not tell you that he would prophesy for me
nothing good, but only evil?" Micaiah said, "Hear then the message from Jehovah: I saw Jehovah
sitting on his throne and all the host of heaven standing about him. And Jehovah said, 'Who
will deceive Ahab, so that he will go up and fall at Ramoth in Gilead?' One suggested one thing
and another, another, until a spirit came out and stood before Jehovah and said, 'I will deceive
him.' Jehovah said to him, 'By what means?' He said, 'I will go out and become a lying spirit
in the mouth of all his prophets.' Then Jehovah said, 'You shall succeed in deceiving him.
Go out and do so.' So Jehovah has now put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these prophets
of yours, for he has decided to bring evil upon you."

Then Zedekiah came near and struck Micaiah a blow on the cheek and said, "How was it that the
spirit of Jehovah went from me to speak to you?" Micaiah replied, "Indeed, you shall see on
the day when you shall go from one hiding-place to another." Then the ruler of Israel said,
"Take Micaiah back to Amon, the governor of the city, and to Joash, the ruler's son, and say,
'This is the ruler's command: Put this fellow in prison and feed him with a scanty fare of
bread and water until I return successful.'" Micaiah said, "If you indeed return successful,
Jehovah has not spoken by me."

Then Ahab, the ruler of Israel, and Jehoshaphat, the ruler of Judah, went up to Ramoth in Gilead.
And the ruler of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, "I will dress myself so that no one will know
me, and go into the battle, but you can put on your robes."

But a certain man shot an arrow, and by chance it struck the ruler of Israel between the breastplate
and the lower part of his armor. So Ahab said to the driver of his chariot, "Turn about and
carry me out of the battle, for I am wounded." But the battle grew more intense, so that Ahab
stayed until evening propped up in his chariot in the sight of the Arameans, and the blood
ran out of the wound into the bottom of the chariot. And that evening he died.

About sunset the cry went out through the army, "Each to his town and each to his land, for
the ruler is dead!" So they went to Samaria and buried Ahab there.

THE MANTLE OF ELIJAH

When Jehovah took up Elijah to heaven in a whirlwind, he was going with Elisha from Gilgal.
And Elijah said to Elisha, "Stay here, for Jehovah has sent me as far as Bethel." But Elisha
said, "As surely as Jehovah lives and as you live, I will not leave you." So they went down
to Bethel.

Then the followers of the prophets at Bethel came out to Elisha and said, "Do you know that
to-day Jehovah will take away your master from you?" He said, "Yes, I know it; say no more."
And Elijah said to him, "Elisha, stay here, for Jehovah has sent me to Jericho." But he said,
"As surely as Jehovah lives and as you live, I will not leave you." So they came to Jericho.

Then the followers of the prophets at Jericho came near to Elisha and said, "Do you know that
to-day Jehovah will take your master from you?" He answered, "Yes, I know it; say no more."
And Elijah said to him, "Stay here, for Jehovah has sent me to the Jordan." But he said, "As
surely as Jehovah lives and as you live, I will not leave you." So they both went on.

Fifty followers of the prophets stood opposite them at a distance, while they two stood by
the Jordan. Then Elijah rolled up his mantle and with it struck the waters; and they were divided,
so that they two went over on dry ground. He replied, "You have asked what is difficult; but
if you see me when I am taken from you, it shall come to you; but if you do not, it shall not
come." And he saw Elijah no more, but he took hold of his own robes and tore them in two. Then
he took up the mantle that had fallen from Elijah.

ELISHA HEALING THE SICK BOY

One day Elisha went over to Shunem where a rich woman lived, and she asked him to be her guest.
Afterward, whenever he passed by, he stopped there to eat. So she said to her husband, "Now
I see that this is a holy man of God who is constantly passing by our door. Let us make a little
chamber on the roof, and put there for him a bed, a table, a seat, and a candlestick, so that
whenever he comes to us, he can stay there."

One day when he came, he went into the upper room and lay down there. Then he said to Gehazi
his servant, "Call this Shunamite." So he called her, and she stood before him. Elisha said
to Gehazi, "Say now to her, 'See, you have been so anxious to care for us; what can be done
for you? May I ask the ruler or the commander of the army to do a favor for you?'" She answered,
"I am living among my own people." Elisha said, "What then can be done for her?" Gehazi answered,
"Verily, she has no son, and her husband is old." Then Elisha said, "Call her." So he called
her, and she stood at the door. Then Elisha said, "At this time a year from now you shall hold
a son in your arms!" But she said, "No, my lord, O man of God, do not deceive your servant!"
But the next year the woman had a son at the very time Elisha had promised her.

When the child had grown up he went out one day to his father to the reapers. And he called
to his father, "My head, my head!" So his father said to his servant, "Carry him to his mother."
When he had been taken to his mother, the boy sat on her lap until noon and then died. He said,
"Why do you go to him to-day, for it is neither the feast of the new moon nor the sabbath?"
She said, "I have good reason."

Then she saddled an ass and said to her servant, "Drive on fast, do not stop until I tell you."
So she went to the man of God on Mount Carmel. But when Elisha saw her at a distance, he said
to Gehazi, his servant, "See, there is the Shunamite! When Gehazi tried to push her away, Elisha
said, "Let her alone, for she is deeply troubled and Jehovah has not told me the reason." Then
she said, "Did I ask a son of my lord? Did I not say, 'Do not deceive me?'"

Elisha said to Gehazi, "Tighten your belt, take my staff in your hand and go! So he rose and
went with her. And Gehazi had gone on before them and had laid the staff upon the face of the
child, but there was neither sound nor sign of life in the boy. So he went in and shut the
door after them and prayed to Jehovah. As he lay upon him, the flesh of the child became warm.
Then he turned and walked backward and forward in the house, and again went up and lay upon
him, and the child sneezed seven times, and then opened his eyes. Calling Gehazi, he said,
"Call this Shunamite woman." So he called her. And when she came in to him, he said, "Take
up your son." Then she went nearer, fell at his feet, and bowed to the ground; after that she
took up her son and went out.

A SLAVE GIRL WHO HELPED HER MASTER

Naaman, the commander of the army of the king of Aram, was a man who was beloved by his master
and was held in high honor, for through him Jehovah had given victory to Aram. He was an able
man, but he was a leper.

Now the Arameans had gone out to rob and had brought away captive from the land of Israel a
little maid who became the servant of Naaman's wife. She said to her mistress, "O that my master
were with the prophet who is in Samaria! Then he would cure him of his leprosy." So Naaman
went in and told the king what the maid from the land of Israel had said. The king of Aram
said, "Go now, and I will send a letter to the ruler of Israel."

So Naaman set out and took with him a thousand pounds of silver and six thousand gold pieces
and ten suits of fine clothes. He also brought to the ruler of Israel the letter, which read:
"This letter is to tell you that I have sent Naaman, my servant, to you, that you may cure
him of his leprosy." But you can clearly see that he is seeking a quarrel with me!" And Elisha
sent a messenger to him to say, "Go and wash seven times in the Jordan and your flesh will
again be well and clean."

But Naaman went away in a rage, saying, "I expected that he would surely come out to me and
stand and call on the name of Jehovah his God and wave his hand over the place, and so cure
the leper.

Then Naaman, with all his followers, returned to the man of God. When he arrived, he stood
before him and said, "Now I know that there is no god in all the earth, but in Israel; therefore
accept a present from your servant." But Elisha said, "As surely as Jehovah lives, before whom
I stand, I will take nothing." And although he urged him to take it, he would not. Then Naaman
said, "If not, at least give your servant a load of earth, what two mules can draw, for your
servant will from this time on offer burnt-offering and sacrifice to no other god but Jehovah."
And Elisha said to him, "Go, and may good fortune attend you."

But when he had gone from him a short distance, Gehazi, the servant of Elisha the man of God,
thought to himself, "My master has let this Naaman the Aramean go without accepting what he
brought! As surely as Jehovah lives, I will run after him and take something from him." So
Gehazi ran after Naaman; and when Naaman saw some one running after him, he stepped down from
the chariot to meet him and said, "Is all well?" Gehazi replied, "All is well. My master has
sent me to say, 'Just now two young men of the followers of the prophets have come to me from
the highland of Ephraim. Give them a hundred pounds of silver and two suits of fine clothes.'"
Naaman said, "Agree to take twice as much silver." So he urged him and bound up two hundred
pounds of silver in two bags, with two suits of fine clothes, and laid them on two of his servants,
and they carried them before Gehazi. But when he came to the hill, he took them from their
hand and hid them in the house and let the men go.

Then he went in to Elisha; but when he stood before his master, Elisha said to him, "Where
do you come from, Gehazi?" He answered, "Your servant has not been anywhere." But Elisha said
to him, "Was I not in spirit with you when the man turned from his chariot to meet you? Now
you have received money and you may get clothes, olive yards, vineyards, sheep, oxen, and slaves;
but the leprosy of Naaman shall stick to you and to your children forever." Then Gehazi went
from Elisha's presence a leper as white as snow.

ELISHA'S WAY OF TREATING ENEMIES

Once while the king of Aram was at war with Israel, he said to his officers, "In such and such
a place we shall hide and surprise them." But Elisha, the man of God, sent word to the ruler
of Israel, "Take care that you do not pass that place, for the Arameans are hiding there."
So the ruler of Israel sent soldiers to the place of which the man of God had told him. Thus
he warned him many times, so that he could there be on his guard.

The king of Aram was very much troubled by this, and he called his officers and said to them,
"Can you not tell me who has betrayed us to the ruler of Israel?" The king said, "Go and see
where he is, that I may send and seize him." And they told the king, "Elisha is now in Dothan."

So the king sent horses and chariots there and a great army. And they arrived at night and
surrounded the city. When the man of God rose early the next morning and went out, an army
with horses and chariots was about the city; so that his servant said to him, "Alas, my master!
What shall we do?" He answered, "Fear not, for they who are with us are more than they who
are with them." And Elisha prayed and said, "Jehovah open his eyes, that he may see." Then
Jehovah opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw that the highlands around about Elisha
were full of horses and chariots of fire.

When the Arameans came toward him, Elisha prayed to Jehovah, and said, "Make this people blind."
So Jehovah made them blind, as Elisha asked.

But as soon as they came to Samaria, Elisha said, "O Jehovah, open the eyes of these men, that
they may see." And Jehovah opened their eyes, so that they could see, and there they were in
Samaria. When the ruler of Israel saw them, he said to Elisha, "My father, shall I cut them
down?" So the robber bands of Arameans no longer invaded the land of Israel.

Later, Benhadad, king of Aram, gathered all his army and besieged Samaria. The famine was so
severe in Samaria while they were besieging it, that an ass's head was sold for eighty pieces
of silver.

Once as the ruler of Israel was passing by on the wall, a woman cried out to him, "Help, my
lord." He answered, "If Jehovah does not help you, from where can I bring help to you? From
the threshing-floor or from the wine-press?" However, the ruler of Israel said to her, "What
is the trouble with you?"

Now Elisha was sitting in his house with the elders beside him; and while he was still talking
with them, the ruler of Israel came down to him and said, "See, this is the evil that comes
from Jehovah! Why should I put my hope in Jehovah any longer?" But Elisha said, "Hear the word
of Jehovah, for he says, 'To-morrow about this time a peck of fine meal shall be sold for a
piece of silver and two pecks of barley for a piece of silver in the gate of Samaria.'" Then
the charioteer on whose arm the ruler of Israel leaned answered the man of God, "If Jehovah
himself should make windows in heaven, could this be possible?" He said, "You shall see it
with your own eyes." Now, come, let us go over to the army of the Arameans. If they spare our
lives, we shall live; and if they kill us, we shall but die."

So they set out in the evening to go over to the camp of the Arameans. So they rose and fled
in the twilight; and they left their tents, their horses and their asses, even the camp as
it was, and fled for their lives.

Then they said to one another, "We are not doing right; this day is a day of good news. If
we keep still and wait until morning punishment will overtake us. Now, come, let us go and
tell those in the palace." So they called the watchmen at the city gate and said to them, "We
went to the camp of the Arameans, but there was no one there and no sound of men's voices.
The horses and asses were tied and the tents were just as they had been."

The watchmen at the city gate shouted this news to those in the palace. And the ruler of Israel
rose in the night and said to his servants, "I will now tell you what the Arameans have done:
they know that we are hungry; so they have gone out of the camp to hide themselves in the field,
thinking, 'When they come out of the city, we will take them alive and get into the city.'"

But one of his servants spoke up and said, "Let some men take a pair of the horses which are
left here. If they die, they will be like most of the Israelites who are dying! Let us send
and find out." So they took two men on horseback, and the ruler of Israel sent them after the
army of the Arameans with the command, "Go and see." They followed them to the Jordan; and
all the way was filled with clothes and weapons which the Arameans had thrown away in their
haste. So the messengers returned and told the ruler of Israel.

Then the people went and carried things away from the camp of the Arameans.

THE END OF AHAB'S SELFISH FAMILY

Elisha the prophet called one of the followers of the prophets and said to him, "Tighten your
belt, take this flask of oil in your hand and go to Ramoth in Gilead. When you arrive there,
look for Jehu, the son of Jehoshaphat, and when you go in take him into an inner room, away
from those who are with him. Then from the flask pour oil on his head, and say, 'Jehovah declares,
I have anointed you to rule over Israel.' Then open the door and flee without delay."

So the young man went to Ramoth in Gilead. When he arrived, the officers of the army were sitting
together. And he said, "Commander, I have a message for you." Jehu said, "To which of us?"
He replied, "To you, O commander." Then Jehu rose and went into the house; and the young man
poured the oil on his head and said to him, "Jehovah the God of Israel says, 'I have anointed
you to rule over Jehovah's people, over Israel!'" Then he opened the door and hurried away.

When Jehu came out to the servants of his master, they asked him, "Is all well? Why did this
insane fellow come to you?" He answered, "You know the man and his message." But they said,
"You are deceiving us. You must tell us." Jehu replied, "He said this to me: 'Jehovah says,
I have anointed you to rule over Israel.'" Then each quickly took his garment, laid it at his
feet on the bare stairs, and blew the horn and cried, "Jehu is the ruler of Israel." So Jehu
plotted against Joram.

Now Joram, with all the Israelites, had been defending Ramoth in Gilead against Hazael king
of Aram, but Joram had gone back to Jezreel to recover from the wounds which he had received
from the Arameans when he fought with Hazael king of Aram. So Jehu said, "If it is your will,
let no one escape from the city to bring news to Jezreel." Then Jehu mounted his chariot and
went toward Jezreel.

While the watchman was standing on the tower of Jezreel, he saw the cloud of dust about Jehu,
as he came, and said, "I see a cloud of dust." Joram said, "Send a horseman to meet him and
ask whether he comes with peaceful purpose." So the horseman went out to meet him and said,
"The ruler of Israel asks, 'Do you come with peaceful purpose?'" Jehu replied, "What have you
to do with peace? Turn and follow me." So the watchman said, "The messenger went to them, but
does not return." Then Joram sent out a second horseman who went to them and said, "The ruler
of Israel asks, 'Do you come with peaceful purpose?'" Jehu answered, "What have you to do with
peace? Turn and follow me." So the watchman said, "He also went to them but does not return;
however, the driving is like the driving of Jehu, for he drives very fast."

Then Joram said, "Get my chariot ready," and when it was ready he went to meet Jehu and found
him in the field of Naboth the Jezreelite. When Joram saw Jehu, he said, "Do you come with
peaceful purpose, Jehu?" Then Joram turned to flee, but Jehu drew his bow and struck Joram
between the shoulders, so that the arrow went through his heart, and he fell down in his chariot.

Then Jehu arrived at Jezreel. As soon as Jezebel heard of it, she painted her eyes, arranged
her hair, and looked out of the window. As Jehu came in at the gate, she said, "Is all well
with you, you traitor, you murderer of your master?" But he looked up to the window and cried,
"Who is on my side? who?" Two or three slaves looked down at him, and he said, "Throw her down."
And they threw her down and the horses trampled on her. When they went back and told Jehu,
he said, "This is what Jehovah declared by his servant Elijah when he said, 'On the piece of
land at Jezreel the dogs shall eat Jezebel's flesh, and her body shall be as refuse on the
surface of the field, so that no one can say, This is Jezebel.'"

THE BOY JOASH ON THE THRONE OF JUDAH

When Joram had ruled twelve years over Israel, Ahaziah the son of Jehoram began to rule over
Judah. And he went down to Jezreel to visit Joram, who was ill. When Jehu struck down Joram,
Ahaziah saw it and fled toward Beth-gannim. But Jehu followed after him with the words, "Shoot
him down, too, in the chariot." So they shot him down on the way up to Gur, near Ibleam, but
he escaped to Megiddo and died there.

When Athaliah, the mother of Ahaziah, learned that her son was dead, she rose and put to death
all of Ahaziah's children except Joash, whom his aunt, Jehosheba, secretly took and placed
with his nurse in the bedchamber. In this way she hid him from Athaliah, so that he was not
put to death. He was with her, hid in the temple of Jehovah, six years, while Athaliah ruled
over the land.

But in the seventh year Jehoiada the priest called together the officers of the royal guard
and brought them into the temple of Jehovah. After he had made them make a solemn promise,
he showed them Ahaziah's son, and gave them these orders, "This is what you shall do: a third
part of you who go in on the Sabbath to guard the palace shall keep watch over it. Two divisions
of you, including all who go out on the Sabbath to guard the temple of Jehovah, shall surround
Joash, each with his weapons in his hand. And let every one who comes within the ranks be put
to death. Thus you shall guard Joash, when he goes out and when he comes in."

The officers did as Jehoiada the priest commanded. And he brought out Ahaziah's son and put
the crown and the royal ornaments upon him; and they made him ruler over Judah and poured oil
upon his head and clapped their hands, crying, "Long live the ruler!"

But when Athaliah heard the people shouting, she came to them in the temple of Jehovah. So
they seized her, and she was killed as she went through the horses' entry to the palace.

Jehoiada made a solemn agreement between Jehovah and the new ruler and the people, that they
should be Jehovah's people; also between the ruler and the people, and Joash ruled forty years
in Jerusalem.

A YOUNG MAN WHO SAID, "SEND ME"

Uzziah, Joash's grandson, was sixteen years old when he began to rule over Judah and he ruled
fifty-two years in Jerusalem.

He fought against the Philistines, and broke down the wall of Gath and of Jabneh and of Ashdod
and built cities near Ashdod and among the Philistines. And God helped him against the Philistines.
He also built towers in the wilderness and dug many cisterns, for he had many herds in the
lowland and farmers in the plain and vine-dressers in the mountains and in the fruitful fields,
for he loved to cultivate the ground. But he was a leper to the day of his death. He lived
in his own house, while Jotham, his son, was at the head of the royal household, ruling the
people of the land.

Isaiah said it was in the year that Uzziah, the ruler of Judah, died that I saw the Lord sitting
on a high and lofty throne; and the train of his robe filled the temple. Guardian angels stood
above him. Each had six wings, one pair to cover the face, another pair to cover the feet,
and another pair with which to fly.

The foundations of the thresholds trembled at the voice of those who called, and the temple
was filled with smoke. Then I said: "Woe is me! I am ruined; for I am a man with unclean lips,
and I live among a people with unclean lips; for my eyes have seen the King, Jehovah of hosts!"
But one of the guardian angels flew to me with a hot coal in his hand that he had taken from
off the altar, and with it he touched my mouth and said: "See, this has touched your lips;
your guilt is taken away and your sin forgiven."

Then I heard the voice of the Lord, saying:

        "Whom shall I send,
         And who will go for us?"

and I said, "Here am I, send me."

JEREMIAH'S CALL TO DO A HARD TASK

This was the message which came to me from Jehovah: "Before you were born I knew you and prepared
you for your work. I have appointed you to be a prophet to the nations." But I (Jeremiah) said:
"O Lord Jehovah! I do not know how to speak in public, for I am only a youth." Then Jehovah
said to me: "Do not say, 'I am only a youth,' for you shall go to all to whom I send you, and
you shall speak whatever I command you. Do not be afraid of them, for I am with you to protect
you."

Then Jehovah stretched out his hand and touched my mouth and said to me: "See. I have put my
words in your mouth, and I have appointed you this day over the nations and kingdoms, to tear
up and break down, to destroy and to overthrow, to build and to plant."

Again this message came from Jehovah, "What do you see?" I answered, "A great kettle brewing
hot, and it faces from the north." Then Jehovah said to me: "From the north trouble is brewing
for all the people of the land. And I will pass judgment upon Jerusalem and these cities for
all their wickedness, for they have been disloyal to me and offered sacrifices to other gods
and have worshipped that which their own hands have made.

"Therefore make ready, rise, speak to them all that I command you. Do not be afraid of them,
for see, I myself will make you this day like a fortified city, and like a bronze wall against
the rulers of Judah, its leaders, its priests, and the common people. Though they fight against
you, they will not overcome you, for I am with you to protect you."

THE YOUNG JOSIAH AND THE BOOK OF THE LAW

Josiah was eight years old when he began to rule, and he ruled thirty-one years in Jerusalem.
In the eighteenth year of his rule he sent Shaphan, the scribe, to the temple of Jehovah with
the command, "Go up to Hilkiah, the chief priest, and see that, when he has taken the money
that is brought into the temple of Jehovah and that which the doorkeepers have gathered from
the people, they give it to the workmen who have charge of the temple of Jehovah. Then let
them give it to the carpenters, the builders, and the masons who are in the temple of Jehovah,
to repair the breaks in it and to buy timber and cut stone to restore it." But no account was
asked of them for the money that was given to them, for they dealt honestly. And Hilkiah gave
the book to Shaphan, and he read it. Then Shaphan went to Josiah and told him, "Your servants
have taken the money that was found in the temple and have turned it over to the workmen who
have charge of the temple of Jehovah." Shaphan, the scribe, also said to Josiah, "Hilkiah,
the priest, has given me a book." And Shaphan read it to him.

So Hilkiah, the priest, and Ahikam and Achbor went to Huldah, the prophetess, who lived in
Jerusalem and talked with her. She said to them, "This is the message of Jehovah, the God of
Israel: 'Tell the man who sent you to me, Jehovah says, I am now about to bring evil upon this
place and upon its people even all that is written in the book which the ruler of Judah has
read. But you shall say to him who sent you to ask of Jehovah, Jehovah the God of Israel declares,
Because you listened and humbled yourself before Jehovah and have wept before me, I also have
heard you,'" So they brought back word to Josiah.

Then at his command they got together all the leaders of Judah and of Jerusalem. And Josiah
went up to the temple of Jehovah, and with him all the men of Judah and all the people of Jerusalem,
as well as the priests and the prophets and all the people, including the children. And he
read to them all the words of the book of the covenant which was found in the temple of Jehovah.
And Josiah stood by the pillar and made a solemn promise before Jehovah to obey all the commands
and carry out the rules written in this book. And all the people also agreed to do so.

Then Josiah commanded Hilkiah, the chief priest, and the second priest and the doorkeepers
to bring out from the temple of Jehovah all the things that were made for Baal and for the
Canaanite goddess of fortune, and for the Babylonian star gods. He removed the horses at the
entrance of the temple of Jehovah, which the rulers of Judah had given to the sun, and burned
the chariots of the sun. Josiah broke down and crushed in pieces the altars that were on the
roof, which the rulers of Judah had made.

Josiah also tore down the altar and the old temple at Bethel, broke its stones in pieces, and
beat it to dust.

Then he gave this command to all the people: "Keep the passover to Jehovah your God, as is
commanded in this book of the covenant." Such a passover as this had not been kept from the
days of the judges who ruled Israel and during the period of the rulers of Israel and of Judah;
but this passover was kept in Jehovah's honor in Jerusalem for the first time in the eighteenth
year of Josiah's rule. Josiah was the first ruler who turned to Jehovah with all his heart,
with all his soul, and with all his strength in exact accord with the law of Moses, nor were
any of the rulers that followed like him.

THE WRITING OF AN ANCIENT BOOK

When Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, had been ruler for four years, this message came to Jeremiah
from Jehovah, "Take a parchment roll and write on it all the words that I have spoken to you
about Jerusalem and Judah and all the nations from the time of Josiah to the present. And Jeremiah
commanded Baruch, saying, "I am not permitted to go to the temple of Jehovah. Therefore you
go and read in the temple on the fast day the words of Jehovah from the roll which you have
written at my command. You shall read them to all the people of Judah who have come from their
towns. Perhaps they will pray to Jehovah and each turn from his evil way; for great is the
anger and wrath of Jehovah against this people." So Baruch did as Jeremiah, the prophet, commanded
him, reading in the temple from the writing the words of Jehovah.

The next year, when all the people who had come to Jerusalem from the cities of Judah were
observing a fast in the temple courts, Baruch read to them all from the writing the words of
Jeremiah.

When Micaiah, the grandson of Shaphan, had heard all the words of Jehovah, he went down to
the palace, where all the court officials were sitting, and told them all that he had heard
when Baruch read the book to the people.

Then all the nobles sent Jehudi, the son of Nethaniah, to Baruch to say: "Take the roll from
which you have read to all the people and come here." So Baruch took the roll in his hand and
went to them. And they said to him, "Sit down now and read it to us." So Baruch read it to
them. But when they had heard all, they turned in fear to one another and said to Baruch, "We
must surely tell Jehoiakim all this." So they asked Baruch, "Tell us now: how did you write
all this?" Baruch answered, "Jeremiah told it all to me and I wrote it down in ink." Then the
nobles said to Baruch, "Go, hide both yourself and Jeremiah, and let no one know where you are."

But after they had put the roll in the room of Elishama, the chancellor, they went to Jehoiakim's
room, and told all these things to him. Then he sent Jehudi to bring the roll, and he brought
it out of the room of Elishama, the chancellor. And Jehudi read it to him and to all the leaders
who were with him.

