But they were angry, and would hear of no compromise. They were well acquainted with the President
of the Boston and Albany, they said, and would put everything aside next day and go up to Boston
and fix that boy.

The Major said he would be on hand too, and would do what he could to save the boy. One of
the gentlemen looked him over and said:

'Apparently it is going to be a matter of who can wield the most influence with the President.
Do you know Mr. Bliss personally?'

The Major said, with composure:

'Yes; he is my uncle.'

The effect was satisfactory. There was an awkward silence for a minute or more; then the hedging
and the half-confessions of over-haste and exaggerated resentment began, and soon everything
was smooth and friendly and sociable, and it was resolved to drop the matter and leave the
boy's bread and butter unmolested.

It turned out as I had expected: the President of the road was not the Major's uncle at all--except
by adoption, and for this day and train only.

We got into no episodes on the return journey. Probably it was because we took a night train
and slept all the way.

We left New York Saturday night by the Pennsylvania road. After breakfast the next morning
we went into the parlour-car, but found it a dull place and dreary. There were but few people
in it and nothing going on. Then we went into the little smoking compartment of the same car
and found three gentlemen in there. Two of them were grumbling over one of the rules of the
road--a rule which forbade card-playing on the trains on Sunday. They had started an innocent
game of high-low-jack and had been stopped. The Major was interested. He said to the third
gentleman:

'Did you object to the game?'

'Not at all. I am a Yale professor and a religious man, but my prejudices are not extensive.'

Then the Major said to the others:

'You are at perfect liberty to resume your game, gentlemen; no one here objects.'

One of them declined the risk, but the other one said he would like to begin again if the Major
would join him. So they spread an overcoat over their knees and the game proceeded. Pretty
soon the parlour-car conductor arrived, and said, brusquely:

'There, there, gentlemen, that won't do. Put up the cards--it's not allowed.'

The Major was shuffling. He continued to shuffle, and said:

'By whose order is it forbidden?'

'It's my order. I forbid it.'

The dealing began. The Major asked:

'Did you invent the idea?'

'What idea?'

'The idea of forbidding card-playing on Sunday.'

'No--of course not.'

'Who did?'

'The company.'

'Then it isn't your order, after all, but the company's. Is that it?'

'Yes. But you don't stop playing! I have to require you to stop playing immediately.'

'Nothing is gained by hurry, and often much is lost. Who authorised the company to issue such
an order?'

'My dear sir, that is a matter of no consequence to me, and--'

'But you forget that you are not the only person concerned. It may be a matter of consequence
to me. It is, indeed, a matter of very great importance to me. I cannot violate a legal requirement
of my country without dishonouring myself; I cannot allow any man or corporation to hamper
my liberties with illegal rules--a thing which railway companies are always trying to do--without
dishonouring my citizenship. So I come back to that question: By whose authority has the company
issued this order?'

'I don't know. That's their affair.'

'Mine, too. I doubt if the company has any right to issue such a rule. This road runs through
several States. Do you know what State we are in now, and what its laws are in matters of this
kind?'

'Its laws do not concern me, but the company's orders do. It is my duty to stop this game,
gentlemen, and it must be stopped.'

'Possibly; but still there is no hurry. In hotels they post certain rules in the rooms, but
they always quote passages from the State law as authority for these requirements. I see nothing
posted here of this sort. Please produce your authority and let us arrive at a decision, for
you see yourself that you are marring the game.'

'I have nothing of the kind, but I have my orders, and that is sufficient. They must be obeyed.'

'Let us not jump to conclusions. It will be better all around to examine into the matter without
heat or haste, and see just where we stand before either of us makes a mistake--for the curtailing
of the liberties of a citizen of the United States is a much more serious matter than you and
the railroads seem to think, and it cannot be done in my person until the curtailer proves
his right to do so. Now--'

'My dear sir, will you put down those cards?'

'All in good time, perhaps. It depends. You say this order must be obeyed. Must. It is a strong
word. You see yourself how strong it is. A wise company would not arm you with so drastic an
order as this, of course, without appointing a penalty for its infringement. Otherwise it runs
the risk of being a dead letter and a thing to laugh at. What is the appointed penalty for
an infringement of this law?'

'Penalty? I never heard of any.'

'Unquestionably you must be mistaken. Your company orders you to come here and rudely break
up an innocent amusement, and furnishes you no way to enforce the order! Don't you see that
that is nonsense? What do you do when people refuse to obey this order? Do you take the cards
away from them?'

'No.'

'Do you put the offender off at the next station?'

'Well, no--of course we couldn't if he had a ticket.'

'Do you have him up before a court?'

The conductor was silent and apparently troubled. The Major started a new deal, and said:

'You see that you are helpless, and that the company has placed you in a foolish position.
You are furnished with an arrogant order, and you deliver it in a blustering way, and when
you come to look into the matter you find you haven't any way of enforcing obedience.'

The conductor said, with chill dignity:

'Gentlemen, you have heard the order, and my duty is ended. As to obeying it or not, you will
do as you think fit.' And he turned to leave.

'But wait. The matter is not yet finished. I think you are mistaken about your duty being ended;
but if it really is, I myself have a duty to perform yet.'

'How do you mean?'

'Are you going to report my disobedience at headquarters in Pittsburg?'

'No. What good would that do?'

'You must report me, or I will report you.'

'Report me for what?'

'For disobeying the company's orders in not stopping this game. As a citizen it is my duty
to help the railway companies keep their servants to their work.'

'Are you in earnest?'

'Yes, I am in earnest. I have nothing against you as a man, but I have this against you as
an officer--that you have not carried out that order, and if you do not report me I must report
you. And I will.'

The conductor looked puzzled, and was thoughtful a moment; then he burst out with:

'I seem to be getting myself into a scrape! It's all a muddle; I can't make head or tail of
it; it never happened before; they always knocked under and never said a word, and so I never
saw how ridiculous that stupid order with no penalty is. I don't want to report anybody, and
I don't want to be reported--why, it might do me no end of harm! No do go on with the game--play
the whole day if you want to--and don't let's have any more trouble about it!'

'No, I only sat down here to establish this gentleman's rights--he can have his place now.
But before won't you tell me what you think the company made this rule for? Can you imagine
an excuse for it? I mean a rational one--an excuse that is not on its face silly, and the invention
of an idiot?'

'Why, surely I can. The reason it was made is plain enough. It is to save the feelings of the
other passengers--the religious ones among them, I mean. They would not like it to have the
Sabbath desecrated by card-playing on the train.'

'I just thought as much. They are willing to desecrate it themselves by travelling on Sunday,
but they are not willing that other people--'

'By gracious, you've hit it! I never thought of that before. The fact is, it is a silly rule
when you come to look into it.'

At this point the train conductor arrived, and was going to shut down the game in a very high-handed
fashion, but the parlour-car conductor stopped him, and took him aside to explain. Nothing
more was heard of the matter.

I was ill in bed eleven days in Chicago and got no glimpse of the Fair, for I was obliged to
return East as soon as I was able to travel. The Major secured and paid for a state-room in
a sleeper the day before we left, so that I could have plenty of room and be comfortable; but
when we arrived at the station a mistake had been made and our car had not been put on. The
conductor had reserved a section for us--it was the best he could do, he said. But Major said
we were not in a hurry, and would wait for the car to be put on. The conductor responded, with
pleasant irony:

'It may be that you are not in a hurry, just as you say, but we are. Come, get aboard, gentlemen,
get aboard--don't keep us waiting.'

But the Major would not get aboard himself nor allow me to do it. He wanted his car, and said
he must have it. This made the hurried and perspiring conductor impatient, and he said:

'It's the best we can do--we can't do impossibilities. You will take the section or go without.
A mistake has been made and can't be rectified at this late hour. It's a thing that happens
now and then, and there is nothing for it but to put up with it and make the best of it. Other
people do.'

'Ah, that is just it, you see. If they had stuck to their rights and enforced them you wouldn't
be trying to trample mine underfoot in this bland way now. I haven't any disposition to give
you unnecessary trouble, but it is my duty to protect the next man from this kind of imposition.
So I must have my car. Otherwise I will wait in Chicago and sue the company for violating its
contract.'

'Sue the company?--for a thing like that!'

'Certainly.'

'Do you really mean that?'

'Indeed, I do.'

The conductor looked the Major over wonderingly, and then said:

'It beats me--it's bran-new--I've never struck the mate to it before. But I swear I think you'd
do it. Look here, I'll send for the station-master.'

When the station-master came he was a good deal annoyed--at the Major, not at the person who
had made the mistake. He was rather brusque, and took the same position which the conductor
had taken in the beginning; but he failed to move the soft-spoken artilleryman, who still insisted
that he must have his car. However, it was plain that there was only one strong side in this
case, and that that side was the Major's. The station-master banished his annoyed manner, and
became pleasant and even half-apologetic. This made a good opening for a compromise, and the
Major made a concession. He said he would give up the engaged state-room, but he must have
a state-room. After a deal of ransacking, one was found whose owner was persuadable; he exchanged
it for our section, and we got away at last. The conductor called on us in the evening, and
was kind and courteous and obliging, and we had a long talk and got to be good friends. He
said he wished the public would make trouble oftener--it would have a good effect. He said
that the railroads could not be expected to do their whole duty by the traveller unless the
traveller would take some interest in the matter himself.

I hoped that we were done reforming for the trip now, but it was not so. In the hotel car,
in the morning, the Major called for broiled chicken. The waiter said:

'It's not in the bill of fare, sir; we do not serve anything but what is in the bill.'

'That gentleman yonder is eating a broiled chicken.'

'Yes, but that is different. He is one of the superintendents of the road.'

'Then all the more must I have broiled chicken. I do not like these discriminations. Please
hurry--bring me a broiled chicken.'

The waiter brought the steward, who explained in a low and polite voice that the thing was
impossible--it was against the rule, and the rule was rigid.

'Very well, then, you must either apply it impartially or break it impartially. You must take
that gentleman's chicken away from him or bring me one.'

The steward was puzzled, and did not quite know what to do. He began an incoherent argument,
but the conductor came along just then, and asked what the difficulty was. The steward explained
that here was a gentleman who was insisting on having a chicken when it was dead against the
rule and not in the bill. The conductor said:

'Stick by your rules--you haven't any option. Wait a moment--is this the gentleman?' Then he
laughed and said: 'Never mind your rules--it's my advice, and sound: give him anything he wants--don't
get him started on his rights. Give him whatever he asks for; and it you haven't got it, stop
the train and get it.'

The Major ate the chicken, but said he did it from a sense of duty and to establish a principle,
for he did not like chicken.

I missed the Fair it is true, but I picked up some diplomatic tricks which I and the reader
may find handy and useful as we go along.

DIPLOMATIC PAY AND CLOTHES

VIENNA, January 5--I find in this morning's papers the statement that the Government of the
United States has paid to the two members of the Peace Commission entitled to receive money
for their services 100,000 dollars each for their six weeks' work in Paris.

I hope that this is true. I will allow myself the satisfaction of considering that it is true,
and of treating it as a thing finished and settled.

It is a precedent; and ought to be a welcome one to our country. A precedent always has a chance
to be valuable (as well as the other way); and its best chance to be valuable (or the other
way) is when it takes such a striking form as to fix a whole nation's attention upon it. If
it come justified out of the discussion which will follow, it will find a career ready and
waiting for it.

We realise that the edifice of public justice is built of precedents, from the ground upward;
but we do not always realise that all the other details of our civilisation are likewise built
of precedents. The changes also which they undergo are due to the intrusion of new precedents,
which hold their ground against opposition, and keep their place. A precedent may die at birth,
or it may live--it is mainly a matter of luck. If it be imitated once, it has a chance; if
twice a better chance; if three times it is reaching a point where account must be taken of
it; if four, five, or six times, it has probably come to stay--for a whole century, possibly.
If a town start a new bow, or a new dance, or a new temperance project, or a new kind of hat,
and can get the precedent adopted in the next town, the career of that precedent is begun;
and it will be unsafe to bet as to where the end of its journey is going to be. It may not
get this start at all, and may have no career; but, if a crown prince introduce the precedent,
it will attract vast attention, and its chances for a career are so great as to amount almost
to a certainty.

For a long time we have been reaping damage from a couple of disastrous precedents. One is
the precedent of shabby pay to public servants standing for the power and dignity of the Republic
in foreign lands; the other is a precedent condemning them to exhibit themselves officially
in clothes which are not only without grace or dignity, but are a pretty loud and pious rebuke
to the vain and frivolous costumes worn by the other officials. To our day an American ambassador's
official costume remains under the reproach of these defects. At a public function in a European
court all foreign representatives except ours wear clothes which in some way distinguish them
from the unofficial throng, and mark them as standing for their countries. But our representative
appears in a plain black swallow-tail, which stands for neither country, nor people. It has
no nationality. It is found in all countries; it is as international as a night-shirt. It has
no particular meaning; but our Government tries to give it one; it tries to make it stand for
Republican Simplicity, modesty and unpretentiousness. Tries, and without doubt fails, for it
is not conceivable that this loud ostentation of simplicity deceives any one. The statue that
advertises its modesty with a fig-leaf really brings its modesty under suspicion. Worn officially,
our nonconforming swallow-tail is a declaration of ungracious independence in the matter of
manners, and is uncourteous. It says to all around: 'In Rome we do not choose to do as Rome
does; we refuse to respect your tastes and your traditions; we make no sacrifices to anyone's
customs and prejudices; we yield no jot to the courtesies of life; we prefer our manners, and
intrude them here.'

That is not the true American spirit, and those clothes misrepresent us. When a foreigner comes
among us and trespasses against our customs and our code of manners, we are offended, and justly
so; but our Government commands our ambassadors to wear abroad an official dress which is an
offence against foreign manners and customers; and the discredit of it falls upon the nation.

We did not dress our public functionaries in undistinguished raiment before Franklin's time;
and the change would not have come if he had been an obscurity. But he was such a colossal
figure in the world that whatever he did of an unusual nature attracted the world's attention,
and became a precedent. In the case of clothes, the next representative after him, and the
next, had to imitate it. After that, the thing was custom; and custom is a petrifaction: nothing
but dynamite can dislodge it for a century. We imagine that our queer official costumery was
deliberately devised to symbolise our Republican Simplicity--a quality which we have never
possessed, and are too old to acquire now, if we had any use for it or any leaning toward it.
But it is not so; there was nothing deliberate about it; it grew naturally and heedlessly out
of the precedent set by Franklin.

If it had been an intentional thing, and based upon a principle, it would not have stopped
where it did: we should have applied it further. Instead of clothing our admirals and generals,
for courts-martial and other public functions, in superb dress uniforms blazing with colour
and gold, the Government would put them in swallow-tails and white cravats, and make them look
like ambassadors and lackeys. If I am wrong in making Franklin the father of our curious official
clothes, it is no matter--he will be able to stand it.

It is my opinion--and I make no charge for the suggestion--that, whenever we appoint an ambassador
or a minister, we ought to confer upon him the temporary rank of admiral or general, and allow
him to wear the corresponding uniform at public functions in foreign countries. I would recommend
this for the reason that it is not consonant with the dignity of the United States of America
that her representative should appear upon occasions of state in a dress which makes him glaringly
conspicuous; and that is what his present undertaker-outfit does when it appears, with its
dismal smudge, in the midst of the butterfly splendours of a Continental court. It is a most
trying position for a shy man, a modest man, a man accustomed to being like other people. He
is the most striking figure present; there is no hiding from the multitudinous eyes. It would
be funny, if it were not such a cruel spectacle, to see the hunted creature in his solemn sables
scuffling around in that sea of vivid colour, like a mislaid Presbyterian in perdition. We
are all aware that our representative's dress should not compel too much attention; for anybody
but an Indian chief knows that that is a vulgarity. I am saying these things in the interest
of our national pride and dignity. Our representative is the flag. He is the Republic. He is
the United States of America. And when these embodiments pass by, we do not want them scoffed
at; we desire that people shall be obliged to concede that they are worthily clothed, and politely.

Our Government is oddly inconsistent in this matter of official dress. When its representative
is a civilian who has not been a solider, it restricts him to the black swallow-tail and white
tie; but if he is a civilian who has been a solider, it allows him to wear the uniform of his
former rank as an official dress. When General Sickles was minister to Spain, he always wore,
when on official duty, the dress uniform of a major-general. When General Grant visited foreign
courts, he went handsomely and properly ablaze in the uniform of a full general, and was introduced
by diplomatic survivals of his own Presidential Administration. The latter, by official necessity,
went in the meek and lowly swallow-tail--a deliciously sarcastic contrast: the one dress representing
the honest and honourable dignity of the nation; the other, the cheap hypocrisy of the Republican
Simplicity tradition. In Paris our present representative can perform his official functions
reputably clothed; for he was an officer in the Civil War. In London our late ambassador was
similarly situated; for he, also, was an officer in the Civil War. But Mr. Choate must represent
the Great Republic--even at official breakfasts at seven in the morning--in that same old funny
swallow-tail.

Our Government's notions about proprieties of costume are indeed very, very odd--as suggested
by that last fact. The swallow-tail is recognised the world over as not wearable in the daytime;
it is a night-dress, and a night-dress only--a night-shirt is not more so. Yet, when our representative
makes an official visit in the morning, he is obliged by his Government to go in that night-dress.
It makes the very cab-horses laugh.

The truth is, that for awhile during the present century, and up to something short of forty
years ago, we had a lucid interval, and dropped the Republican Simplicity sham, and dressed
our foreign representatives in a handsome and becoming official costume. This was discarded
by-and-by, and the swallow-tail substituted. I believe it is not now known which statesman
brought about this change; but we all know that, stupid as he was as to diplomatic proprieties
in dress, he would not have sent his daughter to a state ball in a corn-shucking costume, nor
to a corn-shucking in a state-ball costume, to be harshly criticised as an ill-mannered offender
against the proprieties of custom in both places. And we know another thing, viz. that he himself
would not have wounded the tastes and feelings of a family of mourners by attending a funeral
in their house in a costume which was an offence against the dignities and decorum prescribed
by tradition and sanctified by custom. Yet that man was so heedless as not to reflect that
all the social customs of civilised peoples are entitled to respectful observance, and that
no man with a right spirit of courtesy in him ever has any disposition to transgress these customs.

There is still another argument for a rational diplomatic dress--a business argument. We are
a trading nation; and our representative is a business agent. If he is respected, esteemed,
and liked where he is stationed, he can exercise an influence which can extend our trade and
forward our prosperity. A considerable number of his business activities have their field in
his social relations; and clothes which do not offend against local manners and customers and
prejudices are a valuable part of his equipment in this matter--would be, if Franklin had died
earlier.

I have not done with gratis suggestions yet. We made a great deal of valuable advance when
we instituted the office of ambassador. That lofty rank endows its possessor with several times
as much influence, consideration, and effectiveness as the rank of minister bestows. For the
sake of the country's dignity and for the sake of her advantage commercially, we should have
ambassadors, not ministers, at the great courts of the world.

But not at present salaries! No; if we are to maintain present salaries, let us make no more
ambassadors; and let us unmake those we have already made. The great position, without the
means of respectably maintaining it--there could be no wisdom in that. A foreign representative,
to be valuable to his country, must be on good terms with the officials of the capital and
with the rest of the influential folk. He must mingle with this society; he cannot sit at home--it
is not business, it butters no commercial parsnips. He must attend the dinners, banquets, suppers,
balls, receptions, and must return these hospitalities. He should return as good as he gets,
too, for the sake of the dignity of his country, and for the sake of Business. Have we ever
had a minister or an ambassador who could do this on his salary? No--not once, from Franklin's
time to ours. Other countries understand the commercial value of properly lining the pockets
of their representatives; but apparently our Government has not learned it. England is the
most successful trader of the several trading nations; and she takes good care of the watchmen
who keep guard in her commercial towers. It has been a long time, now, since we needed to blush
for our representatives abroad. It has become custom to send our fittest. We send men of distinction,
cultivation, character--our ablest, our choicest, our best. Then we cripple their efficiency
through the meagreness of their pay. Here is a list of salaries for English and American ministers
and ambassadors:

     City                               Salaries

                                  American       English

     Paris                         $17,500       $45,000
     Berlin                         17,500        40,000
     Vienna                         12,000        40,000
     Constantinople                 10,000        40,000
     St.  Petersburg                17,500        39,000
     Rome                           12,000        35,000
     Washington                        --         32,500

Sir Julian Pauncefote, the English ambassador at Washington, has a very fine house besides--at
no damage to his salary.

English ambassadors pay no house rent; they live in palaces owned by England. Our representatives
pay house-rent out of their salaries. You can judge by the above figures what kind of houses
the United States of America has been used to living in abroad, and what sort of return-entertaining
she has done. There is not a salary in our list which would properly house the representative
receiving it, and, in addition, pay $3,000 toward his family's bacon and doughnuts--the strange
but economical and customary fare of the American ambassador's household, except on Sundays,
when petrified Boston crackers are added.

The ambassadors and ministers of foreign nations not only have generous salaries, but their
Governments provide them with money wherewith to pay a considerable part of their hospitality
bills. I believe our Government pays no hospitality bills except those incurred by the navy.
Through this concession to the navy, that arm is able to do us credit in foreign parts; and
certainly that is well and politic. But why the Government does not think it well and politic
that our diplomats should be able to do us like credit abroad is one of those mysterious inconsistencies
which have been puzzling me ever since I stopped trying to understand baseball and took up
statesmanship as a pastime.

To return to the matter of house-rent. Good houses, properly furnished, in European capitals,
are not to be had at small figures. Consequently, our foreign representatives have been accustomed
to live in garrets--sometimes on the roof. Being poor men, it has been the best they could
do on the salary which the Government has paid them. How could they adequately return the hospitalities
shown them? It was impossible. It would have exhausted the salary in three months. Still, it
was their official duty to entertain their influentials after some sort of fashion; and they
did the best they could with their limited purse. In return for champagne they furnished lemonade;
in return for game they furnished ham; in return for whale they furnished sardines; in return
for liquors they furnished condensed milk; in return for the battalion of liveried and powdered
flunkeys they furnished the hired girl; in return for the fairy wilderness of sumptuous decorations
they draped the stove with the American flag; in return for the orchestra they furnished zither
and ballads by the family; in return for the ball--but they didn't return the ball, except
in cases where the United States lived on the roof and had room.

Is this an exaggeration? It can hardly be called that. I saw nearly the equivalent of it, a
good many years ago. A minister was trying to create influential friends for a project which
might be worth ten millions a year to the agriculturists of the Republic; and our Government
had furnished him ham and lemonade to persuade the opposition with. The minister did not succeed.
He might not have succeeded if his salary had been what it ought to have been--$50,000 or $60,00
a year--but his chances would have been very greatly improved. And in any case, he and his
dinners and his country would not have been joked about by the hard-hearted and pitied by the
compassionate.

Any experienced 'drummer' will testify that, when you want to do business, there is no economy
in ham and lemonade. The drummer takes his country customer to the theatre, the opera, the
circus; dines him, wines him, entertains him all the day and all the night in luxurious style;
and plays upon his human nature in all seductive ways. For he knows, by old experience, that
this is the best way to get a profitable order out of him. He has this reward. All Governments
except our own play the same policy, with the same end in view; and they, also, have their
reward. But ours refuses to do business by business ways, and sticks to ham and lemonade. This
is the most expensive diet known to the diplomatic service of the world.

Ours is the only country of first importance that pays its foreign representatives trifling
salaries. If we were poor, we could not find great fault with these economies, perhaps--at
least one could find a sort of plausible excuse for them. But we are not poor; and the excuse
fails. As shown above, some of our important diplomatic representatives receive $12,000; others,
$17,500. These salaries are all ham and lemonade, and unworthy of the flag. When we have a
rich ambassador in London or Paris, he lives as the ambassador of a country like ours ought
to live, and it costs him $100,000 a year to do it. But why should we allow him to pay that
out of his private pocket? There is nothing fair about it; and the Republic is no proper subject
for any one's charity. In several cases our salaries of $12,000 should be $50,000; and all
of the salaries of $17,500 ought to be $75,000 or $100,000, since we pay no representative's
house-rent. Our State Department realises the mistake which we are making, and would like to
rectify it, but it has not the power.

When a young girl reaches eighteen she is recognised as being a woman. She adds six inches
to her skirt, she unplaits her dangling braids and balls her hair on top of her head, she stops
sleeping with her little sister and has a room to herself, and becomes in many ways a thundering
expense. But she is in society now; and papa has to stand it. There is no avoiding it. Very
well. The Great Republic lengthened her skirts last year, balled up her hair, and entered the
world's society. This means that, if she would prosper and stand fair with society, she must
put aside some of her dearest and darlingest young ways and superstitions, and do as society
does. Of course, she can decline if she wants to; but this would be unwise. She ought to realise,
now that she has 'come out,' that this is a right and proper time to change a part of her style.
She is in Rome; and it has long been granted that when one is in Rome it is good policy to
do as Rome does. To advantage Rome? No--to advantage herself.

If our Government has really paid representatives of ours on the Paris Commission $100,000
apiece for six weeks' work, I feel sure that it is the best cash investment the nation has
made in many years. For it seems quite impossible that, with that precedent on the books, the
Government will be able to find excuses for continuing its diplomatic salaries at the present
mean figure.

P.S.--VIENNA, January 10.--I see, by this morning's telegraphic news, that I am not to be the
new ambassador here, after all. This--well, I hardly know what to say. I--well, of course,
I do not care anything about it; but it is at least a surprise. I have for many months been
using my influence at Washington to get this diplomatic see expanded into an ambassadorship,
with the idea, of course th--But never mind. Let it go. It is of no consequence. I say it calmly;
for I am calm. But at the same time--However, the subject has no interest for me, and never
had. I never really intended to take the place, anyway--I made up my mind to it months and
months ago, nearly a year. But now, while I am calm, I would like to say this--that so long
as I shall continue to possess an American's proper pride in the honour and dignity of his
country, I will not take any ambassadorship in the gift of the flag at a salary short of $75,000
a year. If I shall be charged with wanting to live beyond my country's means, I cannot help
it. A country which cannot afford ambassador's wages should be ashamed to have ambassadors.

Think of a Seventeen-thousand-five-hundred-dollar ambassador! Particularly for America. Why
it is the most ludicrous spectacle, the most inconsistent and incongruous spectacle, contrivable
by even the most diseased imagination. It is a billionaire in a paper collar, a king in a breechclout,
an archangel in a tin halo. And, for pure sham and hypocrisy, the salary is just the match
of the ambassador's official clothes--that boastful advertisement of a Republican Simplicity
which manifests itself at home in Fifty-thousand-dollar salaries to insurance presidents and
railway lawyers, and in domestic palaces whose fittings and furnishings often transcend in
costly display and splendour and richness the fittings and furnishings of the palaces of the
sceptred masters of Europe; and which has invented and exported to the Old World the palace-car,
the sleeping-car, the tram-car, the electric trolley, the best bicycles, the best motor-cars,
the steam-heater, the best and smartest systems of electric calls and telephonic aids to laziness
and comfort, the elevator, the private bath-room (hot and cold water on tap), the palace-hotel,
with its multifarious conveniences, comforts, shows, and luxuries, the--oh, the list is interminable!
In a word, Republican Simplicity found Europe with one shirt on her back, so to speak, as far
as real luxuries, conveniences, and the comforts of life go, and has clothed her to the chin
with the latter. We are the lavishest and showiest and most luxury-loving people on the earth;
and at our masthead we fly one true and honest symbol, the gaudiest flag the world has ever
seen. Oh, Republican Simplicity, there are many, many humbugs in the world, but none to which
you need take off your hat!

LUCK

(NOTE.--This is not a fancy sketch. I got it from a clergyman who was an instructor at Woolwich
forty years ago, and who vouched for its truth.--M.T.)

It was at a banquet in London in honour of one of the two or three conspicuously illustrious
English military names of this generation. For reasons which will presently appear, I will
withhold his real name and titles, and call him Lieutenant-General Lord Arthur Scoresby, V.C.,
K.C.B., etc., etc., etc. What a fascination there is in a renowned name! There say the man,
in actual flesh, whom I had heard of so many thousands of times since that day, thirty years
before, when his name shot suddenly to the zenith from a Crimean battle-field, to remain for
ever celebrated. It was food and drink to me to look, and look, and look at that demigod; scanning,
searching, noting: the quietness, the reserve, the noble gravity of his countenance; the simple
honesty that expressed itself all over him; the sweet unconsciousness of his greatness--unconsciousness
of the hundreds of admiring eyes fastened upon him, unconsciousness of the deep, loving, sincere
worship welling out of the breasts of those people and flowing toward him.

The clergyman at my left was an old acquaintance of mine--clergyman now, but had spent the
first half of his life in the camp and field, and as an instructor in the military school at
Woolwich. Just at the moment I have been talking about, a veiled and singular light glimmered
in his eyes, and he leaned down and muttered confidentially to me--indicating the hero of the
banquet with a gesture,--'Privately--his glory is an accident--just a product of incredible luck.'

This verdict was a great surprise to me. If its subject had been Napoleon, or Socrates, or
Solomon, my astonishment could not have been greater.

Some days later came the explanation of this strange remark, and this is what the Reverend told me.

About forty years ago I was an instructor in the military academy at Woolwich. I was present
in one of the sections when young Scoresby underwent his preliminary examination. I was touched
to the quick with pity; for the rest of the class answered up brightly and handsomely, while
he--why, dear me, he didn't know anything, so to speak. He was evidently good, and sweet, and
lovable, and guileless; and so it was exceedingly painful to see him stand there, as serene
as a graven image, and deliver himself of answers which were veritably miraculous for stupidity
and ignorance. All the compassion in me was aroused in his behalf. I said to myself, when he
comes to be examined again, he will be flung over, of course; so it will be simple a harmless
act of charity to ease his fall as much as I can.

I took him aside, and found that he knew a little of Caesar's history; and as he didn't know
anything else, I went to work and drilled him like a galley-slave on a certain line of stock
questions concerning Caesar which I knew would be used. If you'll believe me, he went through
with flying colours on examination day! He went through on that purely superficial 'cram',
and got compliments, too, while others, who knew a thousand times more than he, got plucked.
By some strangely lucky accident--an accident not likely to happen twice in a century--he was
asked no question outside of the narrow limits of his drill.

It was stupefying. Well, although through his course I stood by him, with something of the
sentiment which a mother feels for a crippled child; and he always saved himself--just by miracle,
apparently.

Now of course the thing that would expose him and kill him at last was mathematics. I resolved
to make his death as easy as I could; so I drilled him and crammed him, and crammed him and
drilled him, just on the line of questions which the examiner would be most likely to use,
and then launched him on his fate. Well, sir, try to conceive of the result: to my consternation,
he took the first prize! And with it he got a perfect ovation in the way of compliments.

Sleep! There was no more sleep for me for a week. My conscience tortured me day and night.
What I had done I had done purely through charity, and only to ease the poor youth's fall--I
never had dreamed of any such preposterous result as the thing that had happened. I felt as
guilty and miserable as the creator of Frankenstein. Here was a wooden-head whom I had put
in the way of glittering promotions and prodigious responsibilities, and but one thing could
happen: he and his responsibilities would all go to ruin together at the first opportunity.

The Crimean war had just broken out. Of course there had to be a war, I said to myself: we
couldn't have peace and give this donkey a chance to die before he is found out. I waited for
the earthquake. It came. And it made me reel when it did come. He was actually gazetted to
a captaincy in a marching regiment! Better men grow old and gray in the service before they
climb to a sublimity like that. And who could ever have foreseen that they would go and put
such a load of responsibility on such green and inadequate shoulders? I could just barely have
stood it if they had made him a cornet; but a captain--think of it! I thought my hair would
turn white.

Consider what I did--I who so loved repose and inaction. I said to myself, I am responsible
to the country for this, and I must go along with him and protect the country against him as
far as I can. So I took my poor little capital that I had saved up through years of work and
grinding economy, and went with a sigh and bought a cornetcy in his regiment, and away we went
to the field.

And there--oh dear, it was awful. Blunders? why, he never did anything but blunder. But, you
see, nobody was in the fellow's secret--everybody had him focused wrong, and necessarily misinterpreted
his performance every time--consequently they took his idiotic blunders for inspirations of
genius; they did honestly! His mildest blunders were enough to make a man in his right mind
cry; and they did make me cry--and rage and rave too, privately. And the thing that kept me
always in a sweat of apprehension was the fact that every fresh blunder he made increased the
lustre of his reputation! I kept saying to myself, he'll get so high that when discovery does
finally come it will be like the sun falling out of the sky.

He went right along up, from grade to grade, over the dead bodies of his superiors, until at
last, in the hottest moment of the battle of... down went our colonel, and my heart jumped
into my mouth, for Scoresby was next in rank! Now for it, said I; we'll all land in Sheol in
ten minutes, sure.

The battle was awfully hot; the allies were steadily giving way all over the field. Our regiment
occupied a position that was vital; a blunder now must be destruction. At this critical moment,
what does this immortal fool do but detach the regiment from its place and order a charge over
a neighbouring hill where there wasn't a suggestion of an enemy! 'There you go!' I said to
myself; 'this is the end at last.'

And away we did go, and were over the shoulder of the hill before the insane movement could
be discovered and stopped. And what did we find? An entire and unsuspected Russian army in
reserve! And what happened? We were eaten up? That is necessarily what would have happened
in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred. But no; those Russians argued that no single regiment
would come browsing around there at such a time. It must be the entire English army, and that
the sly Russian game was detected and blocked; so they turned tail, and away they went, pell-mell,
over the hill and down into the field, in wild confusion, and we after them; they themselves
broke the solid Russia centre in the field, and tore through, and in no time there was the
most tremendous rout you ever saw, and the defeat of the allies was turned into a sweeping
and splendid victory! Marshal Canrobert looked on, dizzy with astonishment, admiration, and
delight; and sent right off for Scoresby, and hugged him, and decorated him on the field in
presence of all the armies!

And what was Scoresby's blunder that time? Merely the mistaking his right hand for his left--that
was all. An order had come to him to fall back and support our right; and instead he fell forward
and went over the hill to the left. But the name he won that day as a marvellous military genius
filled the world with his glory, and that glory will never fade while history books last.

He is just as good and sweet and lovable and unpretending as a man can be, but he doesn't know
enough to come in when it rains. He has been pursued, day by day and year by year, by a most
phenomenal and astonishing luckiness. He has been a shining soldier in all our wars for half
a generation; he has littered his military life with blunders, and yet has never committed
one that didn't make him a knight or a baronet or a lord or something. Look at his breast;
why, he is just clothed in domestic and foreign decorations. Well, sir, every one of them is
a record of some shouting stupidity or other; and, taken together, they are proof that the
very best thing in all this world that can befall a man is to be born lucky.

THE CAPTAIN'S STORY

There was a good deal of pleasant gossip about old Captain 'Hurricane' Jones, of the Pacific
Ocean--peace to his ashes! Two or three of us present had known him; I, particularly well,
for I had made four sea-voyages with him. He was a very remarkable man. He was born on a ship;
he picked up what little education he had among his ship-mates; he began life in the forecastle,
and climbed grade by grade to the captaincy. More than fifty years of his sixty-five were spent
at sea. He had sailed all oceans, seen all lands, and borrowed a tint from all climates. When
a man has been fifty years at sea, he necessarily knows nothing of men, nothing of the world
but its surface, nothing of the world's thought, nothing of the world's learning but it's a
B C, and that blurred and distorted by the unfocussed lenses of an untrained mind. Such a man
is only a gray and bearded child. That is what old Hurricane Jones was--simply an innocent,
lovable old infant. When his spirit was in repose he was as sweet and gentle as a girl; when
his wrath was up he was a hurricane that made his nickname seem tamely descriptive. He was
formidable in a fight, for he was of powerful build and dauntless courage. He was frescoed
from head to heel with pictures and mottoes tattooed in red and blue India ink. I was with
him one voyage when he got his last vacant space tattooed; this vacant space was around his
left ankle. During three days he stumped about the ship with his ankle bare and swollen, and
this legend gleaming red and angry out from a clouding of India ink: 'Virtue is its own R'd.'
(There was a lack of room.) He was deeply and sincerely pious, and swore like a fish-woman.
He considered swearing blameless, because sailors would not understand an order unillumined
by it. He was a profound Biblical scholar--that is, he thought he was. He believed everything
in the Bible, but he had his own methods of arriving at his beliefs. He was of the 'advanced'
school of thinkers, and applied natural laws to the interpretation of all miracles, somewhat
on the plan of the people who make the six days of creation six geological epochs, and so forth.
Without being aware of it, he was a rather severe satirist on modern scientific religionists.
Such a man as I have been describing is rabidly fond of disquisition and argument; one knows
that without being told it.

One trip the captain had a clergyman on board, but did not know he was a clergyman, since the
passenger list did not betray the fact. He took a great liking to this Rev. Mr. Peters, and
talked with him a great deal: told him yarns, gave him toothsome scraps of personal history,
and wove a glittering streak of profanity through his garrulous fabric that was refreshing
to a spirit weary of the dull neutralities of undecorated speech. One day the captain said,
'Peters, do you ever read the Bible?'

'Well--yes.'

'I judge it ain't often, by the way you say it. Now, you tackle it in dead earnest once, and
you'll find it'll pay. Don't you get discouraged, but hang right on. First you won't understand
it; but by-and-by things will begin to clear up, and then you wouldn't lay it down to--ear.'

'Yes, I have heard that said.'

'And it's so too. There ain't a book that begins with it. It lays over 'em all, Peters. There's
some pretty tough things in it--there ain't any getting around that--but you stick to them
and think them out, and when once you get on the inside everything's plain as day.'

'The miracles, too, captain?'

'Yes, sir! the miracles, too. Every one of them. Now, there's that business with the prophets
of Baal; like enough that stumped you?'

'Well, I don't know but--'

'Own up, now; it stumped you. Well, I don't wonder. You hadn't any experience in ravelling
such things out, and naturally it was too many for you. Would you like to have me explain that
thing to you, and show you how to get at the meat of these matters?'

'Indeed, I would, captain, if you don't mind.'

Then the captain proceeded as follows: 'I'll do it with pleasure. First, you see, I read and
read, and thought and thought, till I got to understand what sort of people they were in the
old Bible times, and then after that it was clear and easy. Now, this was the way I put it
up, concerning Isaac(1) and the prophets of Baal. There was some mighty sharp men amongst the
public characters of that old ancient day, and Isaac was one of them. Isaac had his failings--plenty
of them, too; it ain't for me to apologise for Isaac; he played a cold deck on the prophets
of Baal, and like enough he was justifiable, considering the odds that was against him. No,
all I say it, 't' wa'n't any miracle, and that I'll show you so's 't you can see it yourself.

'Well, times had been getting rougher and rougher for prophets--that is, prophets of Isaac's
denomination. There were four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal in the community, and only
one Presbyterian; that is, if Isaac was a Presbyterian, which I reckon he was, but it don't
say. Naturally, the prophets of Baal took all the trade. Isaac was pretty low spirited, I reckon,
but he was a good deal of a man, and no doubt he went a-prophesying around, letting on to be
doing a land-office business, but 't' wa'n't any use; he couldn't run any opposition to amount
to anything. By-and-by things got desperate with him; he sets his head to work and thinks it
all out, and then what does he do? Why he begins to throw out hints that the other parties
are this and that and t'other,--nothing very definite, may be, but just kind of undermining
their reputation in a quiet way. This made talk, of course, and finally got to the King. The
King asked Isaac what he meant by his talk. Says Isaac, "Oh, nothing particular; only, can
they pray down fire from heaven on an altar? It ain't much, maybe, your majesty, only can they
do it? That's the idea." So the King was a good deal disturbed, and he went to the prophets
of Baal, and they said, pretty airy, that if he had an altar ready, they were ready; and they
intimated he better get it insured, too.

'So next morning all the Children of Israel and their parents and the other people gathered
themselves together. Well, here was that great crowd of prophets of Baal packed together on
one side, and Isaac walking up and down all alone on the other, putting up his job. When time
was called, Isaac let on to be comfortable and indifferent; told the other team to take the
first innings. So they went at it, the whole four hundred and fifty, praying around the altar,
very hopefully, and doing their level best. They prayed an hour--two hours--three hours--and
so on, plumb till noon. It wa'n't any use; they hadn't took a trick. Of course they felt kind
of ashamed before all those people, and well they might. Now, what would a magnanimous man
do? Keep still, wouldn't he? Of course. What did Isaac do? He graveled the prophets of Baal
every way he could think of. Says he, "You don't speak up loud enough; your god's asleep, like
enough, or may be he's taking a walk; you want to holler, you know," or words to that effect;
I don't recollect the exact language. Mind I don't apologise for Isaac; he had his faults.

'Well, the prophets of Baal prayed along the best they knew how all the afternoon, and never
raised a spark. At last, about sundown, they were all tuckered out, and they owned up and quit.

'What does Isaac do, now? He steps up and says to some friends of his, there, "Pour four barrels
of water on the altar!" Everybody was astonished; for the other side had prayed at it dry,
you know, and got whitewashed. They poured it on. Says he, "Heave on four more barrels." Then
he says, "Heave on four more." Twelve barrels, you see, altogether. The water ran all over
the altar, and all down the sides, and filled up a trench around it that would hold a couple
of hogsheads--"measures," it says: I reckon it means about a hogshead. Some of the people were
going to put on their things and go, for they allowed he was crazy. They didn't know Isaac.
Isaac knelt down and began to pray: he strung along, and strung along, about the heathen in
distant lands, and about the sister churches, and about the state and the country at large,
and about those that's in authority in the government, and all the usual programme, you know,
till everybody had got tired and gone to thinking about something else, and then, all of a
sudden, when nobody was noticing, he outs with a match and rakes it on the under side of his
leg, and pff! up the whole thing blazes like a house afire! Twelve barrels of water? Petroleum,
sir, PETROLEUM! that's what it was!'

'Petroleum, captain?'

'Yes, sir; the country was full of it. Isaac knew all about that. You read the Bible. Don't
you worry about the tough places. They ain't tough when you come to think them out and throw
light on them. There ain't a thing in the Bible but what is true; all you want is to go prayerfully
to work and cipher out how 'twas done.'

(1) This is the captain's own mistake.

STIRRING TIMES IN AUSTRIA

I. THE GOVERNMENT IN THE FRYING-PAN.

Here in Vienna in these closing days of 1897 one's blood gets no chance to stagnate. The atmosphere
is brimful of political electricity. All conversation is political; every man is a battery,
with brushes overworn, and gives out blue sparks when you set him going on the common topic.
Everybody has an opinion, and lets you have it frank and hot, and out of this multitude of
counsel you get merely confusion and despair. For no one really understands this political
situation, or can tell you what is going to be the outcome of it.

Things have happened here recently which would set any country but Austria on fire from end
to end, and upset the Government to a certainty; but no one feels confident that such results
will follow here. Here, apparently, one must wait and see what will happen, then he will know,
and not before; guessing is idle; guessing cannot help the matter. This is what the wise tell
you; they all say it; they say it every day, and it is the sole detail upon which they all agree.

There is some approach to agreement upon another point: that there will be no revolution. Men
say: 'Look at our history, revolutions have not been in our line; and look at our political
map, its construction is unfavourable to an organised uprising, and without unity what could
a revolt accomplish? It is disunion which has held our empire together for centuries, and what
it has done in the past it may continue to do now and in the future.'

The most intelligible sketch I have encountered of this unintelligible arrangement of things
was contributed to the 'Traveller's Record' by Mr. Forrest Morgan, of Hartford, three years
ago. He says:

     'The Austro-Hungarian Monarchy is the patchwork-quilt, the Midway
     Plaisance, the national chain-gang of Europe; a state that is not a
     nation, but a collection of nations, some with national memories and
     aspirations and others without, some occupying distinct provinces
     almost purely their own, and others mixed with alien races, but each
     with a different language, and each mostly holding the others
     foreigners as much as if the link of a common government did not
     exist.  Only one of its races even now comprises so much as
     one-fourth of the whole, and not another so much as one-sixth; and
     each has remained for ages as unchanged in isolation, however
     mingled together in locality, as globules of oil in water.  There
     is nothing else in the modern world that is nearly like it, though
     there have been plenty in past ages; it seems unreal and impossible
     even though we know it is true; it violates all our feeling as to
     what a country should be in order to have a right to exist; and it
     seems as though it was too ramshackle to go on holding together any
     length of time. Yet it has survived, much in its present shape, two
     centuries of storms that have swept perfectly unified countries
     from existence and others that have brought it to the verge of
     ruin, has survived formidable European coalitions to dismember it,
     and has steadily gained force after each; forever changing in its
     exact make-up, losing in the West but gaining in the East, the
     changes leave the structure as firm as ever, like the dropping off
     and adding on of logs in a raft, its mechanical union of pieces
     showing all the vitality of genuine national life.'

That seems to confirm and justify the prevalent Austrian faith that in this confusion of unrelated
and irreconcilable elements, this condition of incurable disunion, there is strength--for the
Government. Nearly every day some one explains to me that a revolution would not succeed here.
'It couldn't, you know. Broadly speaking, all the nations in the empire hate the Government--but
they all hate each other too, and with devoted and enthusiastic bitterness; no two of them
can combine; the nation that rises must rise alone; then the others would joyfully join the
Government against her, and she would have just a fly's chance against a combination of spiders.
This Government is entirely independent. It can go its own road, and do as it pleases; it has
nothing to fear. In countries like England and America, where there is one tongue and the public
interests are common, the Government must take account of public opinion; but in Austria-Hungary
there are nineteen public opinions--one for each state. No--two or three for each state, since
there are two or three nationalities in each. A Government cannot satisfy all these public
opinions; it can only go through the motions of trying. This Government does that. It goes
through the motions, and they do not succeed; but that does not worry the Government much.'

The next man will give you some further information. 'The Government has a policy--a wise one--and
sticks to it. This policy is--tranquillity: keep this hive of excitable nations as quiet as
possible; encourage them to amuse themselves with things less inflammatory that politics. To
this end it furnishes them an abundance of Catholic priests to teach them to be docile and
obedient, and to be diligent in acquiring ignorance about things here below, and knowledge
about the kingdom of heaven, to whose historic delights they are going to add the charm of
their society by-and-by; and further--to this same end--it cools off the newspapers every morning
at five o'clock, whenever warm events are happening.' There is a censor of the press, and apparently
he is always on duty and hard at work. A copy of each morning paper is brought to him at five
o'clock. His official wagons wait at the doors of the newspaper offices and scud to him with
the first copies that come from the press. His company of assistants read every line in these
papers, and mark everything which seems to have a dangerous look; then he passes final judgment
upon these markings. Two things conspire to give to the results a capricious and unbalanced
look: his assistants have diversified notions as to what is dangerous and what isn't; he can't
get time to examine their criticisms in much detail; and so sometimes the very same matter
which is suppressed in one paper fails to be damned in another one, and gets published in full
feather and unmodified. Then the paper in which it was suppressed blandly copies the forbidden
matter into its evening edition--provokingly giving credit and detailing all the circumstances
in courteous and inoffensive language--and of course the censor cannot say a word.

Sometimes the censor sucks all the blood out of a newspaper and leaves it colourless and inane;
sometimes he leaves it undisturbed, and lets it talk out its opinions with a frankness and
vigour hardly to be surpassed, I think, in the journals of any country. Apparently the censor
sometimes revises his verdicts upon second thought, for several times lately he has suppressed
journals after their issue and partial distribution. The distributed copies are then sent for
by the censor and destroyed. I have two of these, but at the time they were sent for I could
not remember what I had done with them.

If the censor did his work before the morning edition was printed, he would be less of an inconvenience
than he is; but, of course, the papers cannot wait many minutes after five o'clock to get his
verdict; they might as well go out of business as do that; so they print and take their chances.
Then, if they get caught by a suppression, they must strike out the condemned matter and print
the edition over again. That delays the issue several hours, and is expensive besides. The
Government gets the suppressed edition for nothing. If it bought it, that would be joyful,
and would give great satisfaction. Also, the edition would be larger. Some of the papers do
not replace the condemned paragraphs with other matter; they merely snatch they out and leave
blanks behind--mourning blanks, marked 'Confiscated'.

The Government discourages the dissemination of newspaper information in other ways. For instance,
it does not allow newspapers to be sold on the streets: therefore the newsboy is unknown in
Vienna. And there is a stamp duty of nearly a cent upon each copy of a newspaper's issue. Every
American paper that reaches me has a stamp upon it, which has been pasted there in the post-office
or downstairs in the hotel office; but no matter who put it there, I have to pay for it, and
that is the main thing. Sometimes friends send me so many papers that it takes all I can earn
that week to keep this Government going.

I must take passing notice of another point in the Government's measures for maintaining tranquillity.
Everybody says it does not like to see any individual attain to commanding influence in the
country, since such a man can become a disturber and an inconvenience. 'We have as much talent
as the other nations,' says the citizen, resignedly, and without bitterness, 'but for the sake
of the general good of the country, we are discouraged from making it over-conspicuous; and
not only discouraged, but tactfully and skillfully prevented from doing it, if we show too
much persistence. Consequently we have no renowned men; in centuries we have seldom produced
one--that is, seldom allowed one to produce himself. We can say to-day what no other nation
of first importance in the family of Christian civilisations can say--that there exists no
Austrian who has made an enduring name for himself which is familiar all around the globe.

Another helper toward tranquillity is the army. It is as pervasive as the atmosphere. It is
everywhere. All the mentioned creators, promoters, and preservers of the public tranquillity
do their several shares in the quieting work. They make a restful and comfortable serenity
and reposefulness. This is disturbed sometimes for a little while: a mob assembles to protest
against something; it gets noisy--noisier--still noisier--finally too noisy; then the persuasive
soldiery comes charging down upon it, and in a few minutes all is quiet again, and there is no mob.

There is a Constitution and there is a Parliament. The House draws its membership of 425 deputies
from the nineteen or twenty states heretofore mentioned. These men represent peoples who speak
eleven different languages. That means eleven distinct varieties of jealousies, hostilities,
and warring interests. This could be expected to furnish forth a parliament of a pretty inharmonious
sort, and make legislation difficult at times--and it does that. The Parliament is split up
into many parties--the Clericals, the Progressists, the German Nationalists, the Young Czechs,
the Social Democrats, the Christian Socialists, and some others--and it is difficult to get
up working combinations among them. They prefer to fight apart sometimes.

The recent troubles have grown out of Count Badeni's necessities. He could not carry on his
Government without a majority vote in the House at his back, and in order to secure it he had
to make a trade of some sort. He made it with the Czechs--the Bohemians. The terms were not
easy for him: he must issue an ordinance making the Czech tongue the official language in Bohemia
in place of the German. This created a storm. All the Germans in Austria were incensed. In
numbers they form but a fourth part of the empire's population, but they urge that the country's
public business should be conducted in one common tongue, and that tongue a world language--which
German is.

However, Badeni secured his majority. The German element in Parliament was apparently become
helpless. The Czech deputies were exultant.

Then the music began. Badeni's voyage, instead of being smooth, was disappointingly rough from
the start. The Government must get the Ausgleich through. It must not fail. Badeni's majority
was ready to carry it through; but the minority was determined to obstruct it and delay it
until the obnoxious Czech-language measure should be shelved.

The Ausgleich is an Adjustment, Arrangement, Settlement, which holds Austria and Hungary together.
It dates from 1867, and has to be renewed every ten years. It establishes the share which Hungary
must pay toward the expenses of the imperial Government. Hungary is a kingdom (the Emperor
of Austria is its King), and has its own Parliament and governmental machinery. But it has
no foreign office, and it has no army--at least its army is a part of the imperial army, is
paid out of the imperial treasury, and is under the control of the imperial war office.

The ten-year arrangement was due a year ago, but failed to connect. At least completely. A
year's compromise was arranged. A new arrangement must be effected before the last day of this
year. Otherwise the two countries become separate entities. The Emperor would still be King
of Hungary--that is, King of an independent foreign country. There would be Hungarian custom-houses
on the Austrian border, and there would be a Hungarian army and a Hungarian foreign office.
Both countries would be weakened by this, both would suffer damage.

The Opposition in the House, although in the minority, had a good weapon to fight with in the
pending Ausgleich. If it could delay the Ausgleich a few weeks, the Government would doubtless
have to withdraw the hated language ordinance or lose Hungary.

The Opposition began its fight. Its arms were the Rules of the House. It was soon manifest
that by applying these Rules ingeniously it could make the majority helpless, and keep it so
as long as it pleased. It could shut off business every now and then with a motion to adjourn.
It could require the ayes and noes on the motion, and use up thirty minutes on that detail.
It could call for the reading and verification of the minutes of the preceding meeting, and
use up half a day in that way. It could require that several of its members be entered upon
the list of permitted speakers previously to the opening of a sitting; and as there is no time-limit,
further delays could thus be accomplished.

These were all lawful weapons, and the men of the Opposition (technically called the Left)
were within their rights in using them. They used them to such dire purpose that all parliamentary
business was paralysed. The Right (the Government side) could accomplish nothing. Then it had
a saving idea. This idea was a curious one. It was to have the President and the Vice-Presidents
of the Parliament trample the Rules under foot upon occasion!

This, for a profoundly embittered minority constructed out of fire and gun-cotton! It was time
for idle strangers to go and ask leave to look down out of a gallery and see what would be
the result of it.

II. A MEMORABLE SITTING.

And now took place that memorable sitting of the House which broke two records. It lasted the
best part of two days and a night, surpassing by half an hour the longest sitting known to
the world's previous parliamentary history, and breaking the long-speech record with Dr. Lecher's
twelve-hour effort, the longest flow of unbroken talk that ever came out of one mouth since
the world began.

At 8.45 on the evening of the 28th of October, when the House had been sitting a few minutes
short of ten hours, Dr. Lecher was granted the floor. It was a good place for theatrical effects.
I think that no other Senate House is so shapely as this one, or so richly and showily decorated.
Its plan is that of an opera-house. Up toward the straight side of it--the stage side--rise
a couple of terraces of desks for the ministry, and the official clerks or secretaries--terraces
thirty feet long, and each supporting about half a dozen desks with spaces between them. Above
these is the President's terrace, against the wall. Along it are distributed the proper accommodations
for the presiding officer and his assistants. The wall is of richly coloured marble highly
polished, its paneled sweep relieved by fluted columns and pilasters of distinguished grace
and dignity, which glow softly and frostily in the electric light. Around the spacious half-circle
of the floor bends the great two-storied curve of the boxes, its frontage elaborately ornamented
and sumptuously gilded. On the floor of the House the 425 desks radiate fanwise from the President's
tribune.

The galleries are crowded on this particular evening, for word has gone about that the Ausgleich
is before the House; that the President, Ritter von Abrahamowicz, has been throttling the Rules;
that the Opposition are in an inflammable state in consequence, and that the night session
is likely to be of an exciting sort.

The gallery guests are fashionably dressed, and the finery of the women makes a bright and
pretty show under the strong electric light. But down on the floor there is no costumery.

The deputies are dressed in day clothes; some of the clothes neat and trim, others not; there
may be three members in evening dress, but not more. There are several Catholic priests in
their long black gowns, and with crucifixes hanging from their necks. No member wears his hat.
One may see by these details that the aspects are not those of an evening sitting of an English
House of Commons, but rather those of a sitting of our House of Representatives.

In his high place sits the President, Abrahamowicz, object of the Opposition's limitless hatred.
He is sunk back in the depths of his arm-chair, and has his chin down. He brings the ends of
his spread fingers together, in front of his breast, and reflectively taps them together, with
the air of one who would like to begin business, but must wait, and be as patient as he can.
It makes you think of Richelieu. Now and then he swings his head up to the left or to the right
and answers something which some one has bent down to say to him. Then he taps his fingers
again. He looks tired, and maybe a trifle harassed. He is a gray-haired, long, slender man,
with a colourless long face, which, in repose, suggests a death-mask; but when not in repose
is tossed and rippled by a turbulent smile which washes this way and that, and is not easy
to keep up with--a pious smile, a holy smile, a saintly smile, a deprecating smile, a beseeching
and supplicating smile; and when it is at work the large mouth opens, and the flexible lips
crumple, and unfold, and crumple again, and move around in a genial and persuasive and angelic
way, and expose large glimpses of the teeth; and that interrupts the sacredness of the smile
and gives it momentarily a mixed worldly and political and satanic cast. It is a most interesting
face to watch. And then the long hands and the body--they furnish great and frequent help to
the face in the business of adding to the force of the statesman's words.

To change the tense. At the time of which I have just been speaking the crowds in the galleries
were gazing at the stage and the pit with rapt interest and expectancy. One half of the great
fan of desks was in effect empty, vacant; in the other half several hundred members were bunched
and jammed together as solidly as the bristles in a brush; and they also were waiting and expecting.
Presently the Chair delivered this utterance:

'Dr. Lecher has the floor.'

Then burst out such another wild and frantic and deafening clamour as has not been heard on
this planet since the last time the Comanches surprised a white settlement at night. Yells
from the Left, counter-yells from the Right, explosions of yells from all sides at once, and
all the air sawed and pawed and clawed and cloven by a writhing confusion of gesturing arms
and hands. Out of the midst of this thunder and turmoil and tempest rose Dr. Lecher, serene
and collected, and the providential length of his enabled his head to show out of it. He began
his twelve-hour speech. At any rate, his lips could be seen to move, and that was evidence.
On high sat the President, imploring order, with his long hands put together as in prayer,
and his lips visibly but not hearably speaking. At intervals he grasped his bell and swung
it up and down with vigour, adding its keen clamour to the storm weltering there below.

Dr. Lecher went on with his pantomime speech, contented, untroubled. Here and there and now
and then powerful voices burst above the din, and delivered an ejaculation that was heard.
Then the din ceased for a moment or two, and gave opportunity to hear what the Chair might
answer; then the noise broke out again. Apparently the President was being charged with all
sorts of illegal exercises of power in the interest of the Right (the Government side): among
these, with arbitrarily closing an Order of Business before it was finished; with an unfair
distribution of the right to the floor; with refusal of the floor, upon quibble and protest,
to members entitled to it; with stopping a speaker's speech upon quibble and protest; and with
other transgressions of the Rules of the House. One of the interrupters who made himself heard
was a young fellow of slight build and neat dress, who stood a little apart from the solid
crowd and leaned negligently, with folded arms and feet crossed, against a desk. Trim and handsome;
strong face and thin features; black hair roughed up; parsimonious moustache; resonant great
voice, of good tone and pitch. It is Wolf, capable and hospitable with sword and pistol; fighter
of the recent duel with Count Badeni, the head of the Government. He shot Badeni through the
arm and then walked over in the politest way and inspected his game, shook hands, expressed
regret, and all that. Out of him came early this thundering peal, audible above the storm:

'I demand the floor. I wish to offer a motion.'

In the sudden lull which followed, the President answered, 'Dr. Lecher has the floor.'

Wolf. 'I move the close of the sitting!'

P. 'Representative Lecher has the floor.' (Stormy outburst from the Left--that is, the Opposition.)

Wolf. 'I demand the floor for the introduction of a formal notion. (Pause). Mr. President,
are you going to grant it, or not? (Crash of approval from the Left.) I will keep on demanding
the floor till I get it.'

P. 'I call Representative Wolf to order. Dr. Lecher has the floor.'

Wolf. 'Mr. President, are you going to observe the Rules of this House?' (Tempest of applause
and confused ejaculations from the Left--a boom and roar which long endured, and stopped all
business for the time being.)

Dr. von Pessler. 'By the Rules motions are in order, and the Chair must put them to vote.'

For answer the President (who is a Pole--I make this remark in passing) began to jangle his
bell with energy at the moment that that wild pandemonium of voices broke out again.

Wolf (hearable above the storm). 'Mr. President, I demand the floor. We intend to find out,
here and now, which is the hardest, a Pole's skull or a German's!'

This brought out a perfect cyclone of satisfaction from the Left. In the midst of it someone
again moved an Adjournment. The President blandly answered that Dr. Lecher had the floor. Which
was true; and he was speaking, too, calmly, earnestly, and argumentatively; and the official
stenographers had left their places and were at his elbows taking down his words, he leaning
and orating into their ears--a most curious and interesting scene.

Dr. von Pessler (to the Chair). 'Do not drive us to extremities!'

The tempest burst out again: yells of approval from the Left, catcalls and ironical laughter
from the Right. At this point a new and most effective noise-maker was pressed into service.
Each desk has an extension, consisting of a removable board eighteen inches long, six wide,
and a half-inch thick. A member pulled one of these out and began to belabour the top of his
desk with it. Instantly other members followed suit, and perhaps you can imagine the result.
Of all conceivable rackets it is the most ear-splitting, intolerable, and altogether fiendish.

The persecuted President leaned back in his chair, closed his eyes, clasped his hands in his
lap, and a look of pathetic resignation crept over his long face. It is the way a country schoolmaster
used to look in days long past when he had refused his school a holiday and it had risen against
him in ill-mannered riot and violence and insurrection. Twice a motion to adjourn had been
offered--a motion always in order in other Houses, and doubtless so in this one also. The President
had refused to put these motions. By consequence, he was not in a pleasant place now, and was
having a right hard time. Votes upon motions, whether carried or defeated, could make endless
delay, and postpone the Ausgleich to next century.

In the midst of these sorrowful circumstances and this hurricane of yells and screams and satanic
clatter of desk-boards, Representative Dr. Kronawetter unfeelingly reminds the Chair that a
motion has been offered, and adds: 'Say yes, or no! What do you sit there for, and give no answer?'

P. 'After I have given a speaker the floor, I cannot give it to another. After Dr. Lecher is
through, I will put your motion.' (Storm of indignation from the Left.)

Wolf (to the Chair). 'Thunder and lightning! look at the Rule governing the case!'

Kronawetter. 'I move the close of the sitting! And I demand the ayes and noes!'

Dr. Lecher. 'Mr. President, have I the floor?'

P. 'You have the floor.'

Wolf (to the Chair, in a stentorian voice which cleaves its way through the storm). 'It is
by such brutalities as these that you drive us to extremities! Are you waiting till someone
shall throw into your face the word that shall describe what you are bringing about?(1) (Tempest
of insulted fury from the Right.) Is that what you are waiting for, old Grayhead?' (Long-continued
clatter of desk-boards from the Left, with shouts of 'The vote! the vote!' An ironical shout
from the Right, 'Wolf is boss!')

Wolf keeps on demanding the floor for his motion. At length--

P. 'I call Representative Wolf to order! Your conduct is unheard of, sir! You forget that you
are in a parliament; you must remember where you are, sir.' (Applause from the Right. Dr. Lecher
is still peacefully speaking, the stenographers listening at his lips.)

Wolf (banging on his desk with his desk-board). 'I demand the floor for my motion! I won't
stand this trampling of the Rules under foot--no, not if I die for it! I will never yield.
You have got to stop me by force. Have I the floor?'

P. 'Representative Wolf, what kind of behaviour is this? I call you to order again. You should
have some regard for your dignity.'

Dr. Lecher speaks on. Wolf turns upon him with an offensive innuendo.

Dr. Lecher. 'Mr. Wolf, I beg you to refrain from that sort of suggestions.' (Storm of hand-clapping
from the Right.)

This was applause from the enemy, for Lecher himself, like Wolf, was an Obstructionist.

Wolf growls to Lecher, 'You can scribble that applause in your album!'

P. 'Once more I call Representative Wolf to order! Do not forget that you are a Representative,
sir!'

Wolf (slam-banging with his desk-board). 'I will force this matter! Are you going to grant
me the floor, or not?'

And still the sergeant-at-arms did not appear. It was because there wasn't any. It is a curious
thing, but the Chair has no effectual means of compelling order.

After some more interruptions:

Wolf (banging with his board). 'I demand the floor. I will not yield!'

P. 'I have no recourse against Representative Wolf. In the presence of behaviour like this
it is to be regretted that such is the case.' (A shout from the Right, 'Throw him out!')

It is true he had no effective recourse. He had an official called an 'Ordner,' whose help
he could invoke in desperate cases, but apparently the Ordner is only a persuader, not a compeller.
Apparently he is a sergeant-at-arms who is not loaded; a good enough gun to look at, but not
valuable for business.

For another twenty or thirty minutes Wolf went on banging with his board and demanding his
rights; then at last the weary President threatened to summon the dread order-maker. But both
his manner and his words were reluctant. Evidently it grieved him to have to resort to this
dire extremity. He said to Wolf, 'If this goes on, I shall feel obliged to summon the Ordner,
and beg him to restore order in the House.'

Wolf. 'I'd like to see you do it! Suppose you fetch in a few policemen too! (Great tumult.)
Are you going to put my motion to adjourn, or not?'

Dr. Lecher continues his speech. Wolf accompanies him with his board-clatter.

The President despatches the Ordner, Dr. Lang (himself a deputy), on his order-restoring mission.
Wolf, with his board uplifted for defence, confronts the Ordner with a remark which Boss Tweed
might have translated into 'Now let's see what you are going to do about it!' (Noise and tumult
all over the House.)

Wolf stands upon his rights, and says he will maintain them until he is killed in his tracks.
Then he resumes his banging, the President jangles his bell and begs for order, and the rest
of the House augments the racket the best it can.

Wolf. 'I require an adjournment, because I find myself personally threatened. (Laughter from
the Right.) Not that I fear for myself; I am only anxious about what will happen to the man
who touches me.'

The Ordner. 'I am not going to fight with you.'

Nothing came of the efforts of the angel of peace, and he presently melted out of the scene
and disappeared. Wolf went on with his noise and with his demands that he be granted the floor,
resting his board at intervals to discharge criticisms and epithets at the Chair. Once he reminded
the Chairman of his violated promise to grant him (Wolf) the floor, and said, 'Whence I came,
we call promise-breakers rascals!' And he advised the Chairman to take his conscience to bed
with him and use it as a pillow. Another time he said that the Chair was making itself ridiculous
before all Europe. In fact, some of Wolf's language was almost unparliamentary. By-and-by he
struck the idea of beating out a tune with his board. Later he decided to stop asking for the
floor, and to confer it upon himself. And so he and Dr. Lecher now spoke at the same time,
and mingled their speeches with the other noises, and nobody heard either of them. Wolf rested
himself now and then from speech-making by reading, in his clarion voice, from a pamphlet.

I will explain that Dr. Lecher was not making a twelve-hour speech for pastime, but for an
important purpose. It was the Government's intention to push the Ausgleich through its preliminary
stages in this one sitting (for which it was the Order of the Day), and then by vote refer
it to a select committee. It was the Majority's scheme--as charged by the Opposition--to drown
debate upon the bill by pure noise--drown it out and stop it. The debate being thus ended,
the vote upon the reference would follow--with victory for the Government. But into the Government's
calculations had not entered the possibility of a single-barrelled speech which should occupy
the entire time-limit of the setting, and also get itself delivered in spite of all the noise.
Goliath was not expecting David. But David was there; and during twelve hours he tranquilly
pulled statistical, historical, and argumentative pebbles out of his scrip and slung them at
the giant; and when he was done he was victor, and the day was saved.

In the English House an obstructionist has held the floor with Bible-readings and other outside
matters; but Dr. Lecher could not have that restful and recuperative privilege--he must confine
himself strictly to the subject before the House. More than once, when the President could
not hear him because of the general tumult, he sent persons to listen and report as to whether
the orator was speaking to the subject or not.

The subject was a peculiarly difficult one, and it would have troubled any other deputy to
stick to it three hours without exhausting his ammunition, because it required a vast and intimate
knowledge--detailed and particularised knowledge--of the commercial, railroading, financial,
and international banking relations existing between two great sovereignties, Hungary and the
Empire. But Dr. Lecher is President of the Board of Trade of his city of Brunn, and was master
of the situation. His speech was not formally prepared. He had a few notes jotted down for
his guidance; he had his facts in his head; his heard was in his work; and for twelve hours
he stood there, undisturbed by the clamour around him, and with grace and ease and confidence
poured out the riches of his mind, in closely reasoned arguments, clothed in eloquent and faultless
phrasing.

He is a young man of thirty-seven. He is tall and well-proportioned, and has cultivated and
fortified his muscle by mountain-climbing. If he were a little handsomer he would sufficiently
reproduce for me the Chauncey Depew of the great New England dinner nights of some years ago;
he has Depew's charm of manner and graces of language and delivery.

There was but one way for Dr. Lecher to hold the floor--he must stay on his legs. If he should
sit down to rest a moment, the floor would be taken from him by the enemy in the Chair. When
he had been talking three or four hours he himself proposed an adjournment, in order that he
might get some rest from his wearing labours; but he limited his motion with the condition
that if it was lost he should be allowed to continue his speech, and if it was carried he should
have the floor at the next sitting. Wolf was now appeased, and withdrew his own thousand-times-offered
motion, and Dr. Lecher's was voted upon--and lost. So he went on speaking.

By one o'clock in the morning, excitement and noise-making had tired out nearly everybody but
the orator. Gradually the seats of the Right underwent depopulation; the occupants had slipped
out to the refreshment-rooms to eat and drink, or to the corridors to chat. Some one remarked
that there was no longer a quorum present, and moved a call of the House. The Chair (Vice-President
Dr. Kramarz) refused to put it to vote. There was a small dispute over the legality of this
ruling, but the Chair held its ground.

The Left remained on the battle-field to support their champion. He went steadily on with his
speech; and always it was strong, virile, felicitous, and to the point. He was earning applause,
and this enabled his party to turn that fact to account. Now and then they applauded him a
couple of minutes on a stretch, and during that time he could stop speaking and rest his voice
without having the floor taken from him.

At a quarter to two a member of the Left demanded that Dr. Lecher be allowed a recess for rest,
and said that the Chairman was 'heartless.' Dr. Lecher himself asked for ten minutes. The Chair
allowed him five. Before the time had run out Dr. Lecher was on his feet again.

Wolf burst out again with a motion to adjourn. Refused by the Chair. Wolf said the whole Parliament
wasn't worth a pinch of powder. The Chair retorted that that was true in a case where a single
member was able to make all parliamentary business impossible. Dr. Lecher continued his speech.

The members of the Majority went out by detachments from time to time and took naps upon sofas
in the reception-rooms; and also refreshed themselves with food and drink--in quantities nearly
unbelievable--but the Minority stayed loyally by their champion. Some distinguished deputies
of the Majority stayed by him too, compelled thereto by admiration of his great performance.
When a man has been speaking eight hours, is it conceivable that he can still be interesting,
still fascinating? When Dr. Lecher had been speaking eight hours he was still compactly surrounded
by friends who would not leave him, and by foes (of all parties) who could not; and all hung
enchanted and wondering upon his words, and all testified their admiration with constant and
cordial outbursts of applause. Surely this was a triumph without precedent in history.

During the twelve-hour effort friends brought to the orator three glasses of wine, four cups
of coffee, and one glass of beer--a most stingy re-enforcement of his wasting tissues, but
the hostile Chair would permit no addition to it. But, no matter, the Chair could not beat
that man. He was a garrison holding a fort, and was not to be starved out.

When he had been speaking eight hours his pulse was 72; when he had spoken twelve, it was 100.

He finished his long speech in these terms, as nearly as a permissibly free translation can
convey them:

'I will now hasten to close my examination of the subject. I conceive that we of the Left have
made it clear to the honourable gentlemen of the other side of the House that we are stirred
by no intemperate enthusiasm for this measure in its present shape....

'What we require, and shall fight for with all lawful weapons, is a formal, comprehensive,
and definitive solution and settlement of these vexed matters. We desire the restoration of
the earlier condition of things; the cancellation of all this incapable Government's pernicious
trades with Hungary; and then--release from the sorry burden of the Badeni ministry!

'I voice the hope--I know not if it will be fulfilled--I voice the deep and sincere and patriotic
hope that the committee into whose hands this bill will eventually be committed will take its
stand upon high ground, and will return the Ausgleich-Provisorium to this House in a form which
shall make it the protector and promoter alike of the great interests involved and of the honour
of our fatherland.' After a pause, turning towards the Government benches: 'But in any case,
gentlemen of the Majority, make sure of this: henceforth, as before, you find us at our post.
The Germans of Austria will neither surrender nor die!'

Then burst a storm of applause which rose and fell, rose and fell, burst out again and again
and again, explosion after explosion, hurricane after hurricane, with no apparent promise of
ever coming to an end; and meantime the whole Left was surging and weltering about the champion,
all bent upon wringing his hand and congratulating him and glorifying him.

Finally he got away, and went home and ate five loaves and twelve baskets of fish, read the
morning papers, slept three hours, took a short drive, then returned to the House, and sat
out the rest of the thirty-three-hour session.

To merely stand up in one spot twelve hours on a stretch is a feat which very few men could
achieve; to add to the task the utterance of a hundred thousand words would be beyond the possibilities
of the most of those few; to superimpose the requirement that the words should be put into
the form of a compact, coherent, and symmetrical oration would probably rule out the rest of
the few, bar Dr. Lecher.

III.--CURIOUS PARLIAMENTARY ETIQUETTE.

In consequence of Dr. Lecher's twelve-hour speech and the other obstructions furnished by the
Minority, the famous thirty-three-hour sitting of the House accomplished nothing. The Government
side had made a supreme effort, assisting itself with all the helps at hand, both lawful and
unlawful, yet had failed to get the Ausgleich into the hands of a committee. This was a severe
defeat. The Right was mortified, the Left jubilant.

Parliament was adjourned for a week--to let the members cool off, perhaps--a sacrifice of precious
time; for but two months remained in which to carry the all-important Ausgleich to a consummation.

If I have reported the behaviour of the House intelligibly, the reader has been surprised by
it, and has wondered whence these law-makers come and what they are made of; and he has probably
supposed that the conduct exhibited at the Long Sitting was far out of the common, and due
to special excitement and irritation. As to the make-up of the House, it is this: the deputies
come from all the walks of life and from all the grades of society. There are princes, counts,
barons, priests, peasants, mechanics, labourers, lawyers, judges, physicians, professors, merchants,
bankers, shopkeepers. They are religious men, they are earnest, sincere, devoted, and they
hate the Jews. The title of Doctor is so common in the House that one may almost say that the
deputy who does not bear it is by that reason conspicuous. I am assured that it is not a self-granted
title, and not an honorary one, but an earned one; that in Austria it is very seldom conferred
as a mere compliment; that in Austria the degrees of Doctor of Music, Doctor of Philosophy,
and so on, are not conferred by the seats of learning; and so, when an Austrian is called Doctor,
it means that he is either a lawyer or a physician, and that he is not a self-educated man,
but is college-bred, and has been diplomaed for merit.

That answers the question of the constitution of the House. Now as to the House's curious manners.
The manners exhibited by this convention of Doctors were not at that time being tried as a
wholly new experiment. I will go back to a previous sitting in order to show that the deputies
had already had some practice.

There had been an incident. The dignity of the House had been wounded by improprieties indulged
in in its presence by a couple of the members. This matter was placed in the hands of a committee
to determine where the guilt lay and the degree of it, and also to suggest the punishment.
The chairman of the committee brought in his report. By this it appeared that in the course
of a speech, Deputy Schrammel said that religion had no proper place in the public schools--it
was a private matter. Whereupon Deputy Gregorig shouted, 'How about free love!'

To this, Deputy Iro flung out this retort: 'Soda-water at the Wimberger!'

This appeared to deeply offend Deputy Gregorig, who shouted back at Iro, 'You cowardly blatherskite,
say that again!'

The committee had sat three hours. Gregorig had apologised. Iro explained that he didn't say
anything about soda-water at the Wimberger. He explained in writing, and was very explicit:
'I declare upon my word of honour that I did not say the words attributed to me.'

Unhappily for his word of honour, it was proved by the official stenographers and by the testimony
of several deputies that he did say them.

The committee did not officially know why the apparently inconsequential reference to soda-water
at the Wimberger should move Deputy Gregorig to call the utterer of it a cowardly blatherskite;
still, after proper deliberation, it was of the opinion that the House ought to formally censure
the whole business. This verdict seems to have been regarded as sharply severe. I think so
because Deputy Dr. Lueger, Burgermeister of Vienna, felt it a duty to soften the blow to his
friend Gregorig by showing that the soda-water remark was not so innocuous as it might look;
that, indeed, Gregorig's tough retory was justifiable--and he proceeded to explain why. He
read a number of scandalous post-cards which he intimated had proceeded from Iro, as indicated
by the handwriting, though they were anonymous. Some of them were posted to Gregorig at his
place of business and could have been read by all his subordinates; the others were posted
to Gregorig's wife. Lueger did not say--but everybody knew--that the cards referred to a matter
of town gossip which made Mr. Gregorig a chief actor in a tavern scene where siphon-squirting
played a prominent and humorous part, and wherein women had a share.

There were several of the cards; more than several, in fact; no fewer than five were sent in
one day. Dr. Lueger read some of them, and described others. Some of them had pictures on them;
one a picture of a hog with a monstrous snout, and beside it a squirting soda-siphon; below
it some sarcastic doggerel.

Gregorig dealt in shirts, cravats, etc. One of the cards bore these words: 'Much-respected
Deputy and collar-sewer--or stealer.'

Another: 'Hurrah for the Christian-Social work among the women-assemblages! Hurrah for the
soda-squirter!' Comment by Dr. Lueger: 'I cannot venture to read the rest of that one, nor
the signature, either.'

Another: 'Would you mind telling me if....' Comment by Dr. Lueger: 'The rest of it is not properly
readable.'

To Deputy Gregorig's wife: 'Much-respected Madam Gregorig,--The undersigned desires an invitation
to the next soda-squirt.' Comment by Dr. Lueger: 'Neither the rest of the card nor the signature
can I venture to read to the House, so vulgar are they.'

The purpose of this card--to expose Gregorig to his family--was repeated in others of these
anonymous missives.

The House, by vote, censured the two improper deputies.

This may have had a modifying effect upon the phraseology of the membership for a while, and
upon its general exuberance also, but it was not for long. As has been seen, it had become
lively once more on the night of the Long Sitting. At the next sitting after the long one there
was certainly no lack of liveliness. The President was persistently ignoring the Rules of the
House in the interest of the government side, and the Minority were in an unappeasable fury
about it. The ceaseless din and uproar, the shouting and stamping and desk-banging, were deafening,
but through it all burst voices now and then that made themselves heard. Some of the remarks
were of a very candid sort, and I believe that if they had been uttered in our House of Representatives
they would have attracted attention. I will insert some samples here. Not in their order, but
selected on their merits:

Mr. Mayreder (to the President). 'You have lied! You conceded the floor to me; make it good,
or you have lied!'

Mr. Glockner (to the President). 'Leave! Get out!'

Wolf (indicating the President). 'There sits a man to whom a certain title belongs!'

Unto Wolf, who is continuously reading, in a powerful voice, from a newspaper, arrive these
personal remarks from the Majority: 'Oh, shut your mouth!' 'Put him out!' 'Out with him!' Wolf
stops reading a moment to shout at Dr. Lueger, who has the floor but cannot get a hearing,
'Please, Betrayer of the People, begin!'

Dr. Lueger, 'Meine Herren--' ('Oho!' and groans.)

Wolf. 'That's the holy light of the Christian Socialists!'

Mr. Kletzenbauer (Christian Socialist). 'Dam--nation! Are you ever going to quiet down?'

Wolf discharges a galling remark at Mr. Wohlmeyer.

Wohlmeyer (responding). 'You Jew, you!'

There is a moment's lull, and Dr. Lueger begins his speech. Graceful, handsome man, with winning
manners and attractive bearing, a bright and easy speaker, and is said to know how to trim
his political sails to catch any favouring wind that blows. He manages to say a few words,
then the tempest overwhelms him again.

Wolf stops reading his paper a moment to say a drastic thing about Lueger and his Christian-Social
pieties, which sets the C.S.S. in a sort of frenzy.

Mr. Vielohlawek. 'You leave the Christian Socialists alone, you word-of-honour-breaker! Obstruct
all you want to, but you leave them alone! You've no business in this House; you belong in
a gin-mill!'

Mr. Prochazka. 'In a lunatic-asylum, you mean!'

Vielohlawek. 'It's a pity that such man should be leader of the Germans; he disgraces the German
name!'

Dr. Scheicher. 'It's a shame that the like of him should insult us.'

Strohbach (to Wolf). 'Contemptible cub--we will bounce thee out of this!' (It is inferable
that the 'thee' is not intended to indicate affection this time, but to re-enforce and emphasise
Mr. Storhbach's scorn.)

Dr. Scheicher. 'His insults are of no consequence. He wants his ears boxed.'

Dr. Lueger (to Wolf). 'You'd better worry a trifle over your Iro's word of honour. You are
behaving like a street arab.'

Dr. Scheicher. 'It is infamous!'

Dr. Lueger. 'And these shameless creatures are the leaders of the German People's Party!'

Meantime Wolf goes whooping along with his newspaper readings in great contentment.

Dr. Pattai. 'Shut up! Shut up! Shut up! You haven't the floor!'

Strohbach. 'The miserable cub!'

Dr. Lueger (to Wolf, raising his voice strenuously above the storm). 'You are a wholly honourless
street brat!' (A voice, 'Fire the rapscallion out!' But Wolf's soul goes marching noisily on,
just the same.)

Schonerer (vast and muscular, and endowed with the most powerful voice in the Reichsrath; comes
ploughing down through the standing crowds, red, and choking with anger; halts before Deputy
Wohlmeyer, grabs a rule and smashes it with a blow upon a desk, threatens Wohlmeyer's face
with his fist, and bellows out some personalities, and a promise). 'Only you wait--we'll teach
you!' (A whirlwind of offensive retorts assails him from the band of meek and humble Christian
Socialists compacted around their leader, that distinguished religious expert, Dr. Lueger,
Burgermeister of Vienna. Our breath comes in excited gasps now, and we are full of hope. We
imagine that we are back fifty years ago in the Arkansas Legislature, and we think we know
what is going to happen, and are glad we came, and glad we are up in the gallery, out of the
way, where we can see the whole thing and yet not have to supply any of the material for the
inquest. However, as it turns out, our confidence is abused, our hopes are misplaced.)

Dr. Pattai (wildly excited). 'You quiet down, or we shall turn ourselves loose! There will
be cuffing of ears!'

Prochazka (in a fury). 'No--not ear boxing, but genuine blows!'

Vieholawek. 'I would rather take my hat off to a Jew than to Wolf!'

Strohbach (to Wolf). 'Jew flunky! Here we have been fighting the Jews for ten years, and now
you are helping them to power again. How much do you get for it?'

Holansky. 'What he wants is a strait-jacket!'

Wolf continues his reading. It is a market report now.

Remark flung across the House to Schonerer: 'Die Grossmutter auf dem Misthaufen erzeugt worden!'

It will be judicious not to translate that. Its flavour is pretty high, in any case, but it
becomes particularly gamy when you remember that the first gallery was well stocked with ladies.

Apparently it was a great hit. It fetched thunders of joyous enthusiasm out of the Christian
Socialists, and in their rapture they flung biting epithets with wasteful liberality at specially
detested members of the Opposition; among others, this one at Schonerer, 'Bordell in der Krugerstrasse!'
Then they added these words, which they whooped, howled, and also even sand, in a deep-voiced
chorus: 'Schmul Leeb Kohn! Schmul Leeb Kohn! Schmul Leeb Kohn!' and made it splendidly audible
above the banging of desk-boards and the rest of the roaring cyclone of fiendish noises. (A
gallery witticism comes flitting by from mouth to mouth around the great curve: 'The swan-song
of Austrian representative government!' You can note its progress by the applausive smiles
and nods it gets as it skims along.)

Kletzenbauer. 'Holofernes, where is Judith?' (Storm of laughter.)

Gregorig (the shirt-merchant). 'This Wolf-Theatre is costing 6,000 florins!'

Wolf (with sweetness). 'Notice him, gentlemen; it is Mr. Gregorig.' (Laughter.)

Vieholawek (to Wolf). 'You Judas!'

Schneider. 'Brothel-knight!'

Chorus of Voices. 'East-German offal tub!'

And so the war of epithets crashes along, with never-diminishing energy, for a couple of hours.

The ladies in the gallery were learning. That was well; for by-and-by ladies will form a part
of the membership of all the legislatures in the world; as soon as they can prove competency
they will be admitted. At present, men only are competent to legislate; therefore they look
down upon women, and would feel degraded if they had to have them for colleagues in their high
calling.

Wolf is yelling another market report now.

Gessman. 'Shut up, infamous louse-brat!'

During a momentary lull Dr. Lueger gets a hearing for three sentences of his speech. The demand
and require that the President shall suppress the four noisiest members of the Opposition.

Wolf (with a that-settles-it toss of the head). 'The shifty trickster of Vienna has spoken!'

Iro belonged to Schonerer's party. The word-of-honour incident has given it a new name. Gregorig
is a Christian Socialist, and hero of the post-cards and the Wimberger soda-squirting incident.
He stands vast and conspicuous, and conceited and self-satisfied, and roosterish and inconsequential,
at Lueger's elbow, and is proud and cocky to be in such a great company. He looks very well
indeed; really majestic, and aware of it. He crows out his little empty remark, now and then,
and looks as pleased as if he had been delivered of the Ausgleich. Indeed, he does look notably
fine. He wears almost the only dress vest on the floor; it exposes a continental spread of
white shirt-front; his hands are posed at ease in the lips of his trousers pockets; his head
is tilted back complacently; he is attitudinising; he is playing to the gallery. However, they
are all doing that. It is curious to see. Men who only vote, and can't make speeches, and don't
know how to invent witty ejaculations, wander about the vacated parts of the floor, and stop
in a good place and strike attitudes--attitudes suggestive of weighty thought, mostly--and
glance furtively up at the galleries to see how it works; or a couple will come together and
shake hands in an artificial way, and laugh a gay manufactured laugh, and do some constrained
and self-conscious attitudinising; and they steal glances at the galleries to see if they are
getting notice. It is like a scene on the stage--by-play by minor actors at the back while
the stars do the great work at the front. Even Count Badeni attitudinises for a moment; strikes
a reflective Napoleonic attitude of fine picturesqueness--but soon thinks better of it and
desists. There are two who do not attitudinise--poor harried and insulted President Abrahamowicz,
who seems wholly miserable, and can find no way to put in the dreary time but by swinging his
bell and discharging occasional remarks which nobody can hear; and a resigned and patient priest,
who sits lonely in a great vacancy on Majority territory and munches an apple.

Schonerer uplifts his fog-horn of a voice and shakes the roof with an insult discharged at
the Majority.

Dr. Lueger. 'The Honourless Party would better keep still here!'

Gregorig (the echo, swelling out his shirt-front). 'Yes, keep quiet, pimp!'

Schonerer (to Lueger). 'Political mountebank!'

Prochazka (to Schonerer). 'Drunken clown!'

During the final hour of the sitting many happy phrases were distributed through the proceedings.
Among them were these--and they are strikingly good ones:

'Blatherskite!'

'Blackguard!'

'Scoundrel!'

'Brothel-daddy!'

This last was the contribution of Dr. Gessman, and gave great satisfaction. And deservedly.
It seems to me that it was one of the most sparkling things that was said during the whole evening.

At half-past two in the morning the House adjourned. The victory was with the Opposition. No;
not quite that. The effective part of it was snatched away from them by an unlawful exercise
of Presidential force--another contribution toward driving the mistreated Minority out of their
minds.

At other sittings of the parliament, gentlemen of the Opposition, shaking their fists toward
the President, addressed him as 'Polish Dog'. At one sitting an angry deputy turned upon a
colleague and shouted, '----------!'

You must try to imagine what it was. If I should offer it even in the original it would probably
not get by the editor's blue pencil; to offer a translation would be to waste my ink, of course.
This remark was frankly printed in its entirety by one of the Vienna dailies, but the others
disguised the toughest half of it with stars.

If the reader will go back over this chapter and gather its array of extraordinary epithets
into a bunch and examine them, he will marvel at two things: how this convention of gentlemen
could consent to use such gross terms; and why the users were allowed to get out the place
alive. There is no way to understand this strange situation. If every man in the House were
a professional blackguard, and had his home in a sailor boarding-house, one could still not
understand it; for, although that sort do use such terms, they never take them. These men are
not professional blackguards; they are mainly gentlemen, and educated; yet they use the terms,
and take them too. They really seem to attach no consequence to them. One cannot say that they
act like schoolboys; for that is only almost true, not entirely. Schoolboys blackguard each
other fiercely, and by the hour, and one would think that nothing would ever come of it but
noise; but that would be a mistake. Up to a certain limit the result would be noise only, but,
that limit overstepped, trouble would follow right away. There are certain phrases--phrases
of a peculiar character--phrases of the nature of that reference to Schonerer's grandmother,
for instance--which not even the most spiritless schoolboy in the English-speaking world would
allow to pass unavenged. One difference between schoolboys and the law-makers of the Reichsrath
seems to be that the law-makers have no limit, no danger-line. Apparently they may call each
other what they please, and go home unmutilated.

Now, in fact, they did have a scuffle on two occasions, but it was not on account of names
called. There has been no scuffle where that was the cause.

It is not to be inferred that the House lacks a sense of honour because it lacks delicacy.
That would be an error. Iro was caught in a lie, and it profoundly disgraced him. The House
cut him, turned its back upon him. He resigned his seat; otherwise he would have been expelled.
But it was lenient with Gregorig, who had called Iro a cowardly blatherskite in debate. It
merely went through the form of mildly censuring him. That did not trouble Gregorig.

The Viennese say of themselves that they are an easy-going, pleasure-loving community, making
the best of life, and not taking it very seriously. Nevertheless, they are grieved about the
ways of their Parliament, and say quite frankly that they are ashamed. They claim that the
low condition of the parliament's manners is new, not old. A gentleman who was at the head
of the government twenty years ago confirms this, and says that in his time the parliament
was orderly and well-behaved. An English gentleman of long residence here endorses this, and
says that a low order of politicians originated the present forms of questionable speech on
the stump some years ago, and imported them into the parliament.(2) However, some day there
will be a Minister of Etiquette and a sergeant-at-arms, and then things will go better. I mean
if parliament and the Constitution survive the present storm.

IV.--THE HISTORIC CLIMAX

During the whole of November things went from bad to worse. The all-important Ausgleich remained
hard aground, and could not be sparred off. Badeni's government could not withdraw the Language
Ordinance and keep its majority, and the Opposition could not be placated on easier terms.
One night, while the customary pandemonium was crashing and thundering along at its best, a
fight broke out. It was a surging, struggling, shoulder-to-shoulder scramble. A great many
blows were struck. Twice Schonerer lifted one of the heavy ministerial fauteuils--some say
with one hand--and threatened members of the Majority with it, but it was wrenched away from
him; a member hammered Wolf over the head with the President's bell, and another member choked
him; a professor was flung down and belaboured with fists and choked; he held up an open penknife
as a defence against the blows; it was snatched from him and flung to a distance; it hit a
peaceful Christian Socialist who wasn't doing anything, and brought blood from his hand. This
was the only blood drawn. The men who got hammered and choked looked sound and well next day.
The fists and the bell were not properly handled, or better results would have been apparent.
I am quite sure that the fighters were not in earnest.

On Thanksgiving Day the sitting was a history-making one. On that day the harried, bedevilled,
and despairing government went insane. In order to free itself from the thraldom of the Opposition
it committed this curiously juvenile crime; it moved an important change of the Rules of the
House, forbade debate upon the motion, put it to a stand-up vote instead of ayes and noes,
and then gravely claimed that it had been adopted; whereas, to even the dullest witness--if
I without immodesty may pretend to that place--it was plain that nothing legitimately to be
called a vote had been taken at all.

I think that Saltpeter never uttered a truer thing than when he said, 'Whom the gods would
destroy they first make mad.' Evidently the government's mind was tottering when this bald
insults to the House was the best way it could contrive for getting out of the frying-pan.

The episode would have been funny if the matter at stake had been a trifle; but in the circumstances
it was pathetic. The usual storm was raging in the House. As usual, many of the Majority and
the most of the Minority were standing up--to have a better chance to exchange epithets and
make other noises. Into this storm Count Falkenhayn entered, with his paper in his hand; and
at once there was a rush to get near him and hear him read his motion. In a moment he was walled
in by listeners. The several clauses of his motion were loudly applauded by these allies, and
as loudly disapplauded--if I may invent a word--by such of the Opposition as could hear his
voice. When he took his seat the President promptly put the motion--persons desiring to vote
in the affirmative, stand up! The House was already standing up; had been standing for an hour;
and before a third of it had found out what the President had been saying, he had proclaimed
the adoption of the motion! And only a few heard that. In fact, when that House is legislating
you can't tell it from artillery practice.

You will realise what a happy idea it was to side-track the lawful ayes and noes and substitute
a stand-up vote by this fact: that a little later, when a deputation of deputies waited upon
the President and asked him if he was actually willing to claim that that measure had been
passed, he answered, 'Yes--and unanimously.' It shows that in effect the whole House was on
its feet when that trick was sprung.

The 'Lex Falkenhayn,' thus strangely born, gave the President power to suspend for three days
any deputy who should continue to be disorderly after being called to order twice, and it also
placed at his disposal such force as might be necessary to make the suspension effective. So
the House had a sergeant-at-arms at last, and a more formidable one, as to power, than any
other legislature in Christendom had ever possessed. The Lex Falkenhayn also gave the House
itself authority to suspend members for thirty days.

On these terms the Ausgleich could be put through in an hour--apparently. The Opposition would
have to sit meek and quiet, and stop obstructing, or be turned into the street, deputy after
deputy, leaving the Majority an unvexed field for its work.

Certainly the thing looked well. The government was out of the frying-pan at last. It congratulated
itself, and was almost girlishly happy. Its stock rose suddenly from less than nothing to a
premium. It confessed to itself, with pride, that its Lex Falkenhayn was a master-stroke--a
work of genius.

However, there were doubters--men who were troubled, and believed that a grave mistake had
been made. It might be that the Opposition was crushed, and profitably for the country, too;
but the manner of it--the manner of it! That was the serious part. It could have far-reaching
results; results whose gravity might transcend all guessing. It might be the initial step toward
a return to government by force, a restoration of the irresponsible methods of obsolete times.

There were no vacant seats in the galleries next day. In fact, standing-room outside the building
was at a premium. There were crowds there, and a glittering array of helmeted and brass-buttoned
police, on foot and on horseback, to keep them from getting too much excited. No one could
guess what was going to happen, but every one felt that something was going to happen, and
hoped he might have a chance to see it, or at least get the news of it while it was fresh.

At noon the House was empty--for I do not count myself. Half an hour later the two galleries
were solidly packed, the floor still empty. Another half-hour later Wolf entered and passed
to his place; then other deputies began to stream in, among them many forms and faces grown
familiar of late. By one o'clock the membership was present in full force. A band of Socialists
stood grouped against the ministerial desks, in the shadow of the Presidential tribune. It
was observable that these official strongholds were now protected against rushes by bolted
gates, and that these were in ward of servants wearing the House's livery. Also the removable
desk-boards had been taken away, and nothing left for disorderly members to slat with.

There was a pervading, anxious hush--at least what stood very well for a hush in that House.
It was believed by many that the Opposition was cowed, and that there would be no more obstruction,
no more noise. That was an error.

Presently the President entered by the distant door to the right, followed by Vice-President
Fuchs, and the two took their way down past the Polish benches toward the tribune. Instantly
the customary storm of noises burst out, and rose higher and higher, and wilder and wilder,
and really seemed to surpass anything that had gone before it in that place. The President
took his seat and begged for order, but no one could hear him. His lips moved--one could see
that; he bowed his body forward appealingly, and spread his great hand eloquently over his
breast--one could see that; but as concerned his uttered words, he probably could not hear
them himself. Below him was that crowd of two dozen Socialists glaring up at him, shaking their
fists at him, roaring imprecations and insulting epithets at him. This went on for some time.
Suddenly the Socialists burst through the gates and stormed up through the ministerial benches,
and a man in a red cravat reached up and snatched the documents that lay on the President's
desk and flung them abroad. The next moment he and his allies were struggling and fighting
with the half-dozen uniformed servants who were there to protect the new gates. Meantime a
detail of Socialists had swarmed up the side steps and overflowed the President and the Vice,
and were crowding and shouldering and shoving them out of the place. They crowded them out,
and down the steps and across the House, past the Polish benches; and all about them swarmed
hostile Poles and Czechs, who resisted them. One could see fists go up and come down, with
other signs and shows of a heady fight; then the President and the Vice disappeared through
the door of entrance, and the victorious Socialists turned and marched back, mounted the tribune,
flung the President's bell and his remaining papers abroad, and then stood there in a compact
little crowd, eleven strong, and held the place as if it were a fortress. Their friends on
the floor were in a frenzy of triumph, and manifested it in their deafening way. The whole
House was on its feet, amazed and wondering.

It was an astonishing situation, and imposingly dramatic. Nobody had looked for this. The unexpected
had happened. What next? But there can be no next; the play is over; the grand climax is reached;
the possibilities are exhausted; ring down the curtain.

Not yet. That distant door opens again. And now we see what history will be talking of five
centuries hence: a uniformed and helmeted battalion of bronzed and stalwart men marching in
double file down the floor of the House--a free parliament profaned by an invasion of brute force!

It was an odious spectacle--odious and awful. For one moment it was an unbelievable thing--a
thing beyond all credibility; it must be a delusion, a dream, a nightmare. But no, it was real--pitifully
real, shamefully real, hideously real. These sixty policemen had been soldiers, and they went
at their work with the cold unsentimentality of their trade. They ascended the steps of the
tribune, laid their hands upon the inviolable persons of the representatives of a nation, and
dragged and tugged and hauled them down the steps and out at the door; then ranged themselves
in stately military array in front of the ministerial estrade, and so stood.

It was a tremendous episode. The memory of it will outlast all the thrones that exist to-day.
In the whole history of free parliaments the like of it had been seen but three times before.
It takes its imposing place among the world's unforgettable things. It think that in my lifetime
I have not twice seen abiding history made before my eyes, but I know that I have seen it once.

Some of the results of this wild freak followed instantly. The Badeni government came down
with a crash; there was a popular outbreak or two in Vienna; there were three or four days
of furious rioting in Prague, followed by the establishing there of martial law; the Jews and
Germans were harried and plundered, and their houses destroyed; in other Bohemian towns there
was rioting--in some cases the Germans being the rioters, in others the Czechs--and in all
cases the Jew had to roast, no matter which side he was on. We are well along in December now;(3)
the next new Minister-President has not been able to patch up a peace among the warring factions
of the parliament, therefore there is no use in calling it together again for the present;
public opinion believes that parliamentary government and the Constitution are actually threatened
with extinction, and that the permanency of the monarchy itself is a not absolutely certain thing!

Yes, the Lex Falkenhayn was a great invention, and did what was claimed for it--it got the
government out of the frying-pan.

(1) That is, revolution.

(2) 'In that gracious bygone time when a mild and good-tempered spirit was the atmosphere of
our House, when the manner of our speakers was studiously formal and academic, and the storms
and explosions of to-day were wholly unknown,' etc.--Translation of the opening remark of a
leading article in this morning's 'Neue Freie Presse,' December 11.

(3) It is the 9th.--M.T.

PRIVATE HISTORY OF THE 'JUMPING FROG' STORY

Five or six years ago a lady from Finland asked me to tell her a story in our Negro dialect,
so that she could get an idea of what that variety of speech was like. I told her one of Hopkinson
Smith's Negro stories, and gave her a copy of 'Harper's Monthly' containing it. She translated
it for a Swedish newspaper, but by an oversight named me as the author of it instead of Smith.
I was very sorry for that, because I got a good lashing in the Swedish press, which would have
fallen to his share but for that mistake; for it was shown that Boccaccio had told that very
story, in his curt and meagre fashion, five hundred years before Smith took hold of it and
made a good and tellable thing out of it.

I have always been sorry for Smith. But my own turn has come now. A few weeks ago Professor
Van Dyke, of Princeton, asked this question:

'Do you know how old your "Jumping Frog" story is?'

And I answered:

'Yes--forty-five years. The thing happened in Calaveras County, in the spring of 1849.'

'No; it happened earlier--a couple of thousand years earlier; it is a Greek story.'

I was astonished--and hurt. I said:

'I am willing to be a literary thief if it has been so ordained; I am even willing to be caught
robbing the ancient dead alongside of Hopkinson Smith, for he is my friend and a good fellow,
and I think would be as honest as any one if he could do it without occasioning remark; but
I am not willing to antedate his crimes by fifteen hundred years. I must ask you to knock off
part of that.'

But the professor was not chaffing: he was in earnest, and could not abate a century. He offered
to get the book and send it to me and the Cambridge text-book containing the English translation
also. I thought I would like the translation best, because Greek makes me tired. January 30th
he sent me the English version, and I will presently insert it in this article. It is my 'Jumping
Frog' tale in every essential. It is not strung out as I have strung it out, but it is all there.

To me this is very curious and interesting. Curious for several reasons. For instance:

I heard the story told by a man who was not telling it to his hearers as a thing new to them,
but as a thing which they had witnessed and would remember. He was a dull person, and ignorant;
he had no gift as a story-teller, and no invention; in his mouth this episode was merely history--history
and statistics; and the gravest sort of history, too; he was entirely serious, for he was dealing
with what to him were austere facts, and they interested him solely because they were facts;
he was drawing on his memory, not his mind; he saw no humour in his tale, neither did his listeners;
neither he nor they ever smiled or laughed; in my time I have not attended a more solemn conference.
To him and to his fellow gold-miners there were just two things in the story that were worth
considering. One was the smartness of its hero, Jim Smiley, in taking the stranger in with
a loaded frog; and the other was Smiley's deep knowledge of a frog's nature--for he knew (as
the narrator asserted and the listeners conceded) that a frog likes shot and is already ready
to eat it. Those men discussed those two points, and those only. They were hearty in their
admiration of them, and none of the party was aware that a first-rate story had been told in
a first-rate way, and that it brimful of a quality whose presence they never suspected--humour.

Now, then, the interesting question is, did the frog episode happen in Angel's Camp in the
spring of '49, as told in my hearing that day in the fall of 1865? I am perfectly sure that
it did. I am also sure that its duplicate happened in Boeotia a couple of thousand years ago.
I think it must be a case of history actually repeating itself, and not a case of a good story
floating down the ages and surviving because too good to be allowed to perish.

I would now like to have the reader examine the Greek story and the story told by the dull
and solemn Californian, and observe how exactly alike they are in essentials.

(Translation.)

THE ATHENIAN AND THE FROG.(1)

An Athenian once fell in with a Boeotian who was sitting by the road-side looking at a frog.
Seeing the other approach, the Boeotian said his was a remarkable frog, and asked if he would
agree to start a contest of frogs, on condition that he whose frog jumped farthest should receive
a large sum of money. The Athenian replied that he would if the other would fetch him a frog,
for the lake was near. To this he agreed, and when he was gone the Athenian took the frog,
and, opening its mouth, poured some stones into its stomach, so that it did not indeed seem
larger than before, but could not jump. The Boeotian soon returned with the other frog, and
the contest began. The second frog first was pinched, and jumped moderately; then they pinched
the Boeotian frog. And he gathered himself for a leap, and used the utmost effort, but he could
not move his body the least. So the Athenian departed with the money. When he was gone the
Boeotian, wondering what was the matter with the frog, lifted him up and examined him. And
being turned upside down, he opened his mouth and vomited out the stones.

The resemblances are deliciously exact. There you have the wily Boeotain and the wily Jim Smiley
waiting--two thousand years apart--and waiting, each equipped with his frog and 'laying' for
the stranger. A contest is proposed--for money. The Athenian would take a chance 'if the other
would fetch him a frog'; the Yankee says: 'I'm only a stranger here, and I ain't got a frog;
but if I had a frog I'd bet you.' The wily Boeotian and the wily Californian, with that vast
gulf of two thousand years between, retire eagerly and go frogging in the marsh; the Athenian
and the Yankee remain behind and work a best advantage, the one with pebbles, the other with
shot. Presently the contest began. In the one case 'they pinched the Boeotian frog'; in the
other, 'him and the feller touched up the frogs from behind.' The Boeotian frog 'gathered himself
for a leap' (you can just see him!), but 'could not move his body in the least'; the Californian
frog 'give a heave, but it warn't no use--he couldn't budge.' In both the ancient and the modern
cases the strangers departed with the money. The Boeotian and the Californian wonder what is
the matter with their frogs; they lift them and examine; they turn them upside down and out
spills the informing ballast.

Yes, the resemblances are curiously exact. I used to tell the story of the 'Jumping Frog' in
San Francisco, and presently Artemus Ward came along and wanted it to help fill out a little
book which he was about to publish; so I wrote it out and sent it to his publisher, Carleton;
but Carleton thought the book had enough matter in it, so he gave the story to Henry Clapp
as a present, and Clapp put it in his 'Saturday Press,' and it killed that paper with a suddenness
that was beyond praise. At least the paper died with that issue, and none but envious people
have ever tried to rob me of the honour and credit of killing it. The 'Jumping Frog' was the
first piece of writing of mine that spread itself through the newspapers and brought me into
public notice. Consequently, the 'Saturday Press' was a cocoon and I the worm in it; also,
I was the gay-coloured literary moth which its death set free. This simile has been used before.

Early in '66 the 'Jumping Frog' was issued in book form, with other sketches of mine. A year
or two later Madame Blanc translated it into French and published it in the 'Revue des Deux
Mondes,' but the result was not what should have been expected, for the 'Revue' struggled along
and pulled through, and is alive yet. I think the fault must have been in the translation.
I ought to have translated it myself. I think so because I examined into the matter and finally
retranslated the sketch from the French back into English, to see what the trouble was; that
is, to see just what sort of a focus the French people got upon it. Then the mystery was explained.
In French the story is too confused and chaotic and unreposeful and ungrammatical and insane;
consequently it could only cause grief and sickness--it could not kill. A glance at my retranslation
will show the reader that this must be true.

(My Retranslation.)

THE FROG JUMPING OF THE COUNTY OF CALAVERAS

Eh bien! this Smiley nourished some terriers a rats, and some cocks of combat, and some cats,
and all sorts of things: and with his rage of betting one no had more of repose. He trapped
one day a frog and him imported with him (et l'emporta chez lui) saying that he pretended to
make his education. You me believe if you will, but during three months he not has nothing
done but to him apprehend to jump (apprendre a sauter) in a court retired of her mansion (de
sa maison). And I you respond that he have succeeded. He him gives a small blow by behind,
and the instant after you shall see the frog turn in the air like a grease-biscuit, make one
summersault, sometimes two, when she was well started, and refall upon his feet like a cat.
He him had accomplished in the art of to gobble the flies (gober des mouches), and him there
exercised continually--so well that a fly at the most far that she appeared was a fly lost.
Smiley had custom to say that all which lacked to a frog it was the education, but with the
education she could do nearly all--and I him believe. Tenez, I him have seen pose Daniel Webster
there upon this plank--Daniel Webster was the name of the frog--and to him sing, 'Some flies,
Daniel, some flies!'--in a fash of the eye Daniel had bounded and seized a fly here upon the
counter, then jumped anew at the earth, where he rested truly to himself scratch the head with
his behind-foot, as if he no had not the least idea of his superiority. Never you not have
seen frog as modest, as natural, sweet as she was. And when he himself agitated to jump purely
and simply upon plain earth, she does more ground in one jump than any beast of his species
than you can know.

To jump plain--this was his strong. When he himself agitated for that Smiley multiplied the
bests upon her as long as there to him remained a red. It must to know, Smiley was monstrously
proud of his frog, and he of it was right, for some men who were travelled, who had all seen,
said that they to him would be injurious to him compare to another frog. Smiley guarded Daniel
in a little box latticed which he carried bytimes to the village for some bet.

One day an individual stranger at the camp him arrested with his box and him said:

'What is this that you have then shut up there within?'

Smiley said, with an air indifferent:

'That could be a paroquet, or a syringe (ou un serin), but this no is nothing of such, it not
is but a frog.'

The individual it took, it regarded with care, it turned from one side and from the other,
then he said:

'Tiens! in effect!--At what is she good?'

'My God!' responded Smiley, always with an air disengaged, 'she is good for one thing, to my
notice (a mon avis), she can better in jumping (elle peut batter en sautant) all frogs of the
county of Calaveras.'

The individual retook the box, it examined of new longly, and it rendered to Smiley in saying
with an air deliberate:

'Eh bien! I no saw not that that frog had nothing of better than each frog.' (Je ne vois pas
que cette grenouille ait rien de mieux qu'aucune grenouille.) (If that isn't grammar gone to
seed, then I count myself no judge.--M.T.)

'Possible that you not it saw not,' said Smiley; 'possible that you--you comprehend frogs;
possible that you not you there comprehend nothing; possible that you had of the experience,
and possible that you not be but an amateur. Of all manner (de toute maniere) I bet forty dollars
that she batter in jumping no matter which frog of the country of Calaveras.'

The individual reflected a second, and said like sad:

'I not am but a stranger here, I no have not a frog; but if I of it had one, I would embrace
the bet.'

'Strong, well!' respond Smiley; 'nothing of more facility. If you will hold my box a minute,
I go you to search a frog (j'irai vous chercher.)'

Behold, then, the individual who guards the box, who puts his forty dollars upon those of Smiley,
and who attends (et qui attendre). He attended enough longtimes, reflecting all solely. And
figure you that he takes Daniel, him opens the mouth by force and with a teaspoon him fills
with shot of the hunt, even him fills just to the chin, then he him puts by the earth. Smiley
during these times was at slopping in a swamp. Finally he trapped (attrape) a frog, him carried
to that individual, and said:

'Now if you be ready, put him all against Daniel, with their before-feet upon the same line,
and I give the signal'--then he added: 'One, two three--advance!'

Him and the individual touched their frogs by behind, and the frog new put to jump smartly,
but Daniel himself lifted ponderously, exhalted the shoulders thus, like a Frenchman--to what
good? He could not budge, he is planted solid like a church, he not advance no more than if
one him had put at the anchor.

Smiley was surprised and disgusted, but he not himself doubted not of the turn being intended
(mais il ne se doutait pas du tour bien entendre). The indidivual empocketed the silver, himself
with it went, and of it himself in going is that he no gives not a jerk of thumb over the shoulder--like
that--at the poor Daniel, in saying with his air deliberate--(L'individu empoche l'argent,
s'en va et en s'en allant est-ce qu'il ne donne pas un coup de pouce pas-dessus l'epaule, comme
ca, au pauvre Daniel, en disant de son air delibere).

'Eh bien! I no see not that that frog has nothing of better than another.'

Smiley himself scratched longtimes the head, the eyes fixed upon Daniel, until that which at
last he said:

'I me demand how the devil it makes itself that this beast has refused. Is it that she had
something? One would believe that she is stuffed.'

He grasped Daniel by the skin of the neck, him lifted and said:

'The wolf me bite if he no weigh not five pounds.'

He him reversed and the unhappy belched two handfuls of shot (et le malheureux, etc.). When
Smiley recognised how it was, he was like mad. He deposited his frog by the earth and ran after
that individual, but he not him caught never.

It may be that there are people who can translate better than I can, but I am not acquainted
with them.

So ends the private and public history of the Jumping Frog of Calaveras County, an incident
which has this unique feature about it--that it is both old and new, a 'chestnut' and not a
'chestnut;' for it was original when it happened two thousand years ago, and was again original
when it happened in California in our own time.

P.S.

London, July, 1900.--Twice, recently, I have been asked this question:

'Have you seen the Greek version of the "Jumping Frog"?'

And twice I have answered--'No.'

'Has Professor Van Dyke seen it?'

'I suppose so.'

'Then you supposition is at fault.'

'Why?'

'Because there isn't any such version.'

'Do you mean to intimate that the tale is modern, and not borrowed from some ancient Greek book.'

'Yes. It is not permissible for any but the very young and innocent to be so easily beguiled
as you and Van Dyke have been.'

'Do you mean that we have fallen a prey to our ignorance and simplicity?'

'Yes. Is Van Dyke a Greek scholar?'

'I believe so.'

'Then he knew where to find the ancient Greek version if one existed. Why didn't he look? Why
did he jump to conclusions?'

'I don't know. And was it worth the trouble, anyway?'

As it turns out, now, it was not claimed that the story had been translated from the Greek.
It had its place among other uncredited stories, and was there to be turned into Greek by students
of that language. 'Greek Prose Composition'--that title is what made the confusion. It seemed
to mean that the originals were Greek. It was not well chosen, for it was pretty sure to mislead.

Thus vanishes the Greek Frog, and I am sorry: for he loomed fine and grand across the sweep
of the ages, and I took a great pride in him.

M.T.

(1) Sidgwick, Greek Prose Composition, page 116

MY MILITARY CAMPAIGN

You have heard from a great many people who did something in the war; is it not fair and right
that you listen a little moment to one who started out to do something in it, but didn't? Thousands
entered the war, got just a taste of it, and then stepped out again, permanently. These, by
their very numbers, are respectable, and are therefore entitled to a sort of voice--not a loud
one, but a modest one; not a boastful one, but an apologetic one. They ought not to be allowed
much space among better people--people who did something--I grant that; but they ought at least
to be allowed to state why they didn't do anything, and also to explain the process by which
they didn't do anything. Surely this kind of light must have a sort of value.

Out West there was a good deal of confusion in men's minds during the first months of the great
trouble--a good deal of unsettledness, of leaning first this way, then that, then the other
way. It was hard for us to get our bearings. I call to mind an instance of this. I was piloting
on the Mississippi when the news came that South Carolina had gone out of the Union on December
20, 1860. My pilot-mate was a New Yorker. He was strong for the Union; so was I. But he would
not listen to me with any patience; my loyalty was smirched, to his eye, because my father
had owned slaves. I said, in palliation of this dark fact, that I had heard my father say,
some years before he died, that slavery was a great wrong, and that he would free the solitary
Negro he then owned if he could think it right to give away the property of the family when
he was so straitened in means. My mate retorted that a mere impulse was nothing--anybody could
pretend to a good impulse; and went on decrying my Unionism and libelling my ancestry. A month
later the secession atmosphere had considerably thickened on the Lower Mississippi, and I became
a rebel; so did he. We were together in New Orleans, January 26, when Louisiana went out of
the Union. He did his full share of the rebel shouting, but was bitterly opposed to letting
me do mine. He said that I came of bad stock--of a father who had been willing to set slaves
free. In the following summer he was piloting a Federal gun-boat and shouting for the Union
again, and I was in the Confederate army. I held his note for some borrowed money. He was one
of the most upright men I ever knew; but he repudiated that note without hesitation, because
I was a rebel, and the son of a man who had owned slaves.

In that summer--of 1861--the first wash of the wave of war broke upon the shores of Missouri.
Our State was invaded by the Union forces. They took possession of St. Louis, Jefferson Barracks,
and some other points. The Governor, Claib Jackson, issued his proclamation calling out fifty
thousand militia to repel the invader.

I was visiting in the small town where my boyhood had been spent--Hannibal, Marion County.
Several of us got together in a secret place by night and formed ourselves into a military
company. One Tom Lyman, a young fellow of a good deal of spirit but of no military experience,
was made captain; I was made second lieutenant. We had no first lieutenant; I do not know why;
it was long ago. There were fifteen of us. By the advice of an innocent connected with the
organisation, we called ourselves the Marion Rangers. I do not remember that any one found
fault with the name. I did not; I thought it sounded quite well. The young fellow who proposed
this title was perhaps a fair sample of the kind of stuff we were made of. He was young, ignorant,
good-natured, well-meaning, trivial, full of romance, and given to reading chivalric novels
and singing forlorn love-ditties. He had some pathetic little nickel-plated aristocratic instincts,
and detested his name, which was Dunlap; detested it, partly because it was nearly as common
in that region as Smith, but mainly because it had a plebeian sound to his ear. So he tried
to ennoble it by writing it in this way: d'Unlap. That contented his eye, but left his ear
unsatisfied, for people gave the new name the same old pronunciation--emphasis on the front
end of it. He then did the bravest thing that can be imagined--a thing to make one shiver when
one remembers how the world is given to resenting shams and affectations; he began to write
his name so: d'Un Lap. And he waited patiently through the long storm of mud that was flung
at this work of art, and he had his reward at last; for he lived to see that name accepted,
and the emphasis put where he wanted it, by people who had known him all his life, and to whom
the tribe of Dunlaps had been as familiar as the rain and the sunshine for forty years. So
sure of victory at last is the courage that can wait. He said he had found, by consulting some
ancient French chronicles, that the name was rightly and originally written d'Un Lap; and said
that if it were translated into English it would mean Peterson: Lap, Latin or Greek, he said,
for stone or rock, same as the French Pierre, that is to say, Peter; d', of or from; un, a
or one; hence d'Un Lap, of or from a stone or a Peter; that is to say, one who is the son of
a stone, the son of a Peter--Peterson. Our militia company were not learned, and the explanation
confused them; so they called him Peterson Dunlap. He proved useful to us in his way; he named
our camps for us, and he generally struck a name that was 'no slouch,' as the boys said.

That is one sample of us. Another was Ed Stevens, son of the town jeweller,--trim-built, handsome,
graceful, neat as a cat; bright, educated, but given over entirely to fun. There was nothing
serious in life to him. As far as he was concerned, this military expedition of ours was simply
a holiday. I should say that about half of us looked upon it in the same way; not consciously,
perhaps, but unconsciously. We did not think; we were not capable of it. As for myself, I was
full of unreasoning joy to be done with turning out of bed at midnight and four in the morning,
for a while; grateful to have a change, new scenes, new occupations, a new interest. In my
thoughts that was as far as I went; I did not go into the details; as a rule one doesn't at
twenty-five.

Another sample was Smith, the blacksmith's apprentice. This vast donkey had some pluck, of
a slow and sluggish nature, but a soft heart; at one time he would knock a horse down for some
impropriety, and at another he would get homesick and cry. However, he had one ultimate credit
to his account which some of us hadn't: he stuck to the war, and was killed in battle at last.

Jo Bowers, another sample, was a huge, good-natured, flax-headed lubber; lazy, sentimental,
full of harmless brag, a grumbler by nature; an experienced, industrious, ambitious, and often
quite picturesque liar, and yet not a successful one, for he had had no intelligent training,
but was allowed to come up just any way. This life was serious enough to him, and seldom satisfactory.
But he was a good fellow, anyway, and the boys all liked him. He was made orderly sergeant;
Stevens was made corporal.

These samples will answer--and they are quite fair ones. Well, this herd of cattle started
for the war. What could you expect of them? They did as well as they knew how, but really what
was justly to be expected of them? Nothing, I should say. That is what they did.

We waited for a dark night, for caution and secrecy were necessary; then, toward midnight,
we stole in couples and from various directions to the Griffith place, beyond the town; from
that point we set out together on foot. Hannibal lies at the extreme south-eastern corner of
Marion County, on the Mississippi River; our objective point was the hamlet of New London,
ten miles away, in Ralls County.

The first hour was all fun, all idle nonsense and laughter. But that could not be kept up.
The steady trudging came to be like work; the play had somehow oozed out of it; the stillness
of the woods and the sombreness of the night began to throw a depressing influence over the
spirits of the boys, and presently the talking died out and each person shut himself up in
his own thoughts. During the last half of the second hour nobody said a word.

Now we approached a log farm-house where, according to report, there was a guard of five Union
soldiers. Lyman called a halt; and there, in the deep gloom of the overhanging branches, he
began to whisper a plan of assault upon that house, which made the gloom more depressing than
it was before. It was a crucial moment; we realised, with a cold suddenness, that here was
no jest--we were standing face to face with actual war. We were equal to the occasion. In our
response there was no hesitation, no indecision: we said that if Lyman wanted to meddle with
those soldiers, he could go ahead and do it; but if he waited for us to follow him, he would
wait a long time.

Lyman urged, pleaded, tried to shame us, but it had no effect. Our course was plain, our minds
were made up: we would flank the farmhouse--go out around. And that is what we did. We turned
the position.

We struck into the woods and entered upon a rough time, stumbling over roots, getting tangled
in vines, and torn by briers. At last we reached an open place in a safe region, and sat down,
blown and hot, to cool off and nurse our scratches and bruises. Lyman was annoyed, but the
rest of us were cheerful; we had flanked the farm-house, we had made our first military movement,
and it was a success; we had nothing to fret about, we were feeling just the other way. Horse-play
and laughing began again; the expedition was become a holiday frolic once more.

Then we had two more hours of dull trudging and ultimate silence and depression; then, about
dawn, we straggled into New London, soiled, heel-blistered, fagged with our little march, and
all of us except Stevens in a sour and raspy humour and privately down on the war. We stacked
our shabby old shot-guns in Colonel Ralls's barn, and then went in a body and breakfasted with
that veteran of the Mexican War. Afterwards he took us to a distant meadow, and there in the
shade of a tree we listened to an old-fashioned speech from him, full of gunpowder and glory,
full of that adjective-piling, mixed metaphor, and windy declamation which was regarded as
eloquence in that ancient time and that remote region; and then he swore us on the Bible to
be faithful to the State of Missouri and drive all invaders from her soil, no matter whence
they might come or under what flag they might march. This mixed us considerably, and we could
not make out just what service we were embarked in; but Colonel Ralls, the practised politician
and phrase-juggler, was not similarly in doubt; he knew quite clearly that he had invested
us in the cause of the Southern Confederacy. He closed the solemnities by belting around me
the sword which his neighbour, colonel Brown, had worn at Buena Vista and Molino del Rey; and
he accompanied this act with another impressive blast.

Then we formed in line of battle and marched four miles to a shady and pleasant piece of woods
on the border of the far-reached expanses of a flowery prairie. It was an enchanting region
for war--our kind of war.

We pierced the forest about half a mile, and took up a strong position, with some low, rocky,
and wooded hills behind us, and a purling, limpid creek in front. Straightway half the command
were in swimming, and the other half fishing. The ass with the French name gave this position
a romantic title, but it was too long, so the boys shortened and simplified it to Camp Ralls.

We occupied an old maple-sugar camp, whose half-rotted troughs were still propped against the
trees. A long corn-crib served for sleeping quarters for the battalion. On our left, half a
mile away, was Mason's farm and house; and he was a friend to the cause. Shortly after noon
the farmers began to arrive from several directions, with mules and horses for our use, and
these they lent us for as long as the war might last, which they judged would be about three
months. The animals were of all sizes, all colours, and all breeds. They were mainly young
and frisky, and nobody in the command could stay on them long at a time; for we were town boys,
and ignorant of horsemanship. The creature that fell to my share was a very small mule, and
yet so quick and active that it could throw me without difficulty; and it did this whenever
I got on it. Then it would bray--stretching its neck out, laying its ears back, and spreading
its jaws till you could see down to its works. It was a disagreeable animal, in every way.
If I took it by the bridle and tried to lead it off the grounds, it would sit down and brace
back, and no one could budge it. However, I was not entirely destitute of military resources,
and I did presently manage to spoil this game; for I had seen many a steam-boat aground in
my time, and knew a trick or two which even a grounded mule would be obliged to respect. There
was a well by the corn-crib; so I substituted thirty fathom of rope for the bridle, and fetched
him home with the windlass.

I will anticipate here sufficiently to say that we did learn to ride, after some days' practice,
but never well. We could not learn to like our animals; they were not choice ones, and most
of them had annoying peculiarities of one kind or another. Stevens's horse would carry him,
when he was not noticing, under the huge excrescences which form on the trunks of oak-trees,
and wipe him out of the saddle; in this way Stevens got several bad hurts. Sergeant Bowers's
horse was very large and tall, with slim, long legs, and looked like a railroad bridge. His
size enabled him to reach all about, and as far as he wanted to, with his head; so he was always
biting Bowers's legs. On the march, in the sun, Bowers slept a good deal; and as soon as the
horse recognised that he was asleep he would reach around and bite him on the leg. His legs
were black and blue with bites. This was the only thing that could ever make him swear, but
this always did; whenever the horse bit him he always swore, and of course Stevens, who laughed
at everything, laughed at this, and would even get into such convulsions over it as to lose
his balance and fall off his horse; and then Bowers, already irritated by the pain of the horse-bite,
would resent the laughter with hard language, and there would be a quarrel; so that horse made
no end of trouble and bad blood in the command.

However, I will get back to where I was--our first afternoon in the sugar-camp. The sugar-troughs
came very handy as horse-troughs, and we had plenty of corn to fill them with. I ordered Sergeant
Bowers to feed my mule; but he said that if I reckoned he went to war to be dry-nurse to a
mule, it wouldn't take me very long to find out my mistake. I believed that this was insubordination,
but I was full of uncertainties about everything military, and so I let the thing pass, and
went and ordered Smith, the blacksmith's apprentice, to feed the mule; but he merely gave me
a large, cold, sarcastic grin, such as an ostensibly seven-year-old horse gives you when you
lift his lip and find he is fourteen, and turned his back on me. I then went to the captain,
and asked if it was not right and proper and military for me to have an orderly. He said it
was, but as there was only one orderly in the corps, it was but right that he himself should
have Bowers on his staff. Bowers said he wouldn't serve on anybody's staff; and if anybody
thought he could make him, let him try it. So, of course, the thing had to be dropped; there
was no other way.

Next, nobody would cook; it was considered a degradation; so we had no dinner. We lazied the
rest of the pleasant afternoon away, some dozing under the trees, some smoking cob-pipes and
talking sweethearts and war, some playing games. By late supper-time all hands were famished;
and to meet the difficulty all hands turned to, on an equal footing, and gathered wood, built
fires, and cooked the meal. Afterward everything was smooth for a while; then trouble broke
out between the corporal and the sergeant, each claiming to rank the other. Nobody knew which
was the higher office; so Lyman had to settle the matter by making the rank of both officers
equal. The commander of an ignorant crew like that has many troubles and vexations which probably
do not occur in the regular army at all. However, with the song-singing and yarn-spinning around
the camp-fire, everything presently became serene again; and by-and-by we raked the corn down
level in one end of the crib, and all went to bed on it, tying a horse to the door, so that
he would neigh if any one tried to get in.(1)

We had some horsemanship drill every forenoon; then, afternoons, we rode off here and there
in squads a few miles, and visited the farmers' girls, and had a youthful good time, and got
an honest good dinner or supper, and then home again to camp, happy and content.

For a time, life was idly delicious, it was perfect; there was nothing to mar it. Then came
some farmers with an alarm one day. They said it was rumoured that the enemy were advancing
in our direction, from over Hyde's prairie. The result was a sharp stir among us, and general
consternation. It was a rude awakening from our pleasant trance. The rumour was but a rumour--nothing
definite about it; so, in the confusion, we did not know which way to retreat. Lyman was for
not retreating at all, in these uncertain circumstances; but he found that if he tried to maintain
that attitude he would fare badly, for the command were in no humour to put up with insubordination.
So he yielded the point and called a council of war--to consist of himself and the three other
officers; but the privates made such a fuss about being left out, that we had to allow them
to remain, for they were already present, and doing the most of the talking too. The question
was, which way to retreat; but all were so flurried that nobody seemed to have even a guess
to offer. Except Lyman. He explained in a few calm words, that inasmuch as the enemy were approaching
from over Hyde's prairie, our course was simple: all we had to do was not to retreat toward
him; any other direction would answer our needs perfectly. Everybody saw in a moment how true
this was, and how wise; so Lyman got a great many compliments. It was now decided that we should
fall back upon Mason's farm.

It was after dark by this time, and as we could not know how soon the enemy might arrive, it
did not seem best to try to take the horses and things with us; so we only took the guns and
ammunition, and started at once. The route was very rough and hilly and rocky, and presently
the night grew very black and rain began to fall; so we had a troublesome time of it, struggling
and stumbling along in the dark; and soon some person slipped and fell, and then the next person
behind stumbled over him and fell, and so did the rest, one after the other; and then Bowers
came with the keg of powder in his arms, whilst the command were all mixed together, arms and
legs, on the muddy slope; and so he fell, of course, with the keg, and this started the whole
detachment down the hill in a body, and they landed in the brook at the bottom in a pile, and
each that was undermost pulling the hair and scratching and biting those that were on top of
him; and those that were being scratched and bitten, scratching and biting the rest in their
turn, and all saying they would die before they would ever go to war again if they ever got
out of this brook this time, and the invader might rot for all they cared, and the country
along with them--and all such talk as that, which was dismal to hear and take part in, in such
smothered, low voices, and such a grisly dark place and so wet, and the enemy maybe coming
any moment.

The keg of powder was lost, and the guns too; so the growling and complaining continued straight
along whilst the brigade pawed around the pasty hillside and slopped around in the brook hunting
for these things; consequently we lost considerable time at this; and then we heard a sound,
and held our breath and listened, and it seemed to be the enemy coming, though it could have
been a cow, for it had a cough like a cow; but we did not wait, but left a couple of guns behind
and struck out for Mason's again as briskly as we could scramble along in the dark. But we
got lost presently among the rugged little ravines, and wasted a deal of time finding the way
again, so it was after nine when we reached Mason's stile at last; and then before we could
open our mouths to give the countersign, several dogs came bounding over the fence, with great
riot and noise, and each of them took a soldier by the slack of his trousers and began to back
away with him. We could not shoot the dogs without endangering the persons they were attached
to; so we had to look on, helpless, at what was perhaps the most mortifying spectacle of the
civil war. There was light enough, and to spare, for the Masons had now run out on the porch
with candles in their hands. The old man and his son came and undid the dogs without difficulty,
all but Bowers's; but they couldn't undo his dog, they didn't know his combination; he was
of the bull kind, and seemed to be set with a Yale time-lock; but they got him loose at last
with some scalding water, of which Bowers got his share and returned thanks. Peterson Dunlap
afterwards made up a fine name for this engagement, and also for the night march which preceded
it, but both have long ago faded out of my memory.

We now went into the house, and they began to ask us a world of questions, whereby it presently
came out that we did not know anything concerning who or what we were running from; so the
old gentleman made himself very frank, and said we were a curious breed of soldiers, and guessed
we could be depended on to end up the war in time, because no Government could stand the expense
of the shoe-leather we should cost it trying to follow us around. 'Marion Rangers! good name,
b'gosh!' said he. And wanted to know why we hadn't had a picket-guard at the place where the
road entered the prairie, and why we hadn't sent out a scouting party to spy out the enemy
and bring us an account of his strength, and so on, before jumping up and stampeding out of
a strong position upon a mere vague rumour--and so on, and so forth, till he made us all fell
shabbier than the dogs had done, and not half so enthusiastically welcome. So we went to bed
shamed and low-spirited; except Stevens. Soon Stevens began to devise a garment for Bowers
which could be made to automatically display his battle-scars to the grateful, or conceal them
from the envious, according to his occasions; but Bowers was in no humour for this, so there
was a fight, and when it was over Stevens had some battle-scars of his own to think about.

Then we got a little sleep. But after all we had gone through, our activities were not over
for the night; for about two o'clock in the morning we heard a shout of warning from down the
lane, accompanied by a chorus from all the dogs, and in a moment everybody was up and flying
around to find out what the alarm was about. The alarmist was a horseman who gave notice that
a detachment of Union soldiers was on its way from Hannibal with orders to capture and hang
any bands like ours which it could find, and said we had no time to lose. Farmer Mason was
in a flurry this time, himself. He hurried us out of the house with all haste, and sent one
of his negroes with us to show us where to hide ourselves and our tell-tale guns among the
ravines half a mile away. It was raining heavily.

We struck down the lane, then across some rocky pasture-land which offered good advantages
for stumbling; consequently we were down in the mud most of the time, and every time a man
went down he blackguarded the war, and the people who started it, and everybody connected with
it, and gave himself the master dose of all for being so foolish as to go into it. At last
we reached the wooded mouth of a ravine, and there we huddled ourselves under the streaming
trees, and sent the negro back home. It was a dismal and heart-breaking time. We were like
to be drowned with the rain, deafened with the howling wind and the booming thunder, and blinded
by the lightning. It was indeed a wild night. The drenching we were getting was misery enough,
but a deeper misery still was the reflection that the halter might end us before we were a
day older. A death of this shameful sort had not occurred to us as being among the possibilities
of war. It took the romance all out of the campaign, and turned our dreams of glory into a
repulsive nightmare. As for doubting that so barbarous an order had been given, not one of
us did that.

The long night wore itself out at last, and then the negro came to us with the news that the
alarm had manifestly been a false one, and that breakfast would soon be ready. Straightway
we were light-hearted again, and the world was bright, and life as full of hope and promise
as ever--for we were young then. How long ago that was! Twenty-four years.

The mongrel child of philology named the night's refuse Camp Devastation, and no soul objected.
The Masons gave us a Missouri country breakfast, in Missourian abundance, and we needed it:
hot biscuits; hot 'wheat bread' prettily criss-crossed in a lattice pattern on top; hot corn
pone; fried chicken; bacon, coffee, eggs, milk, buttermilk, etc.;--and the world may be confidently
challenged to furnish the equal to such a breakfast, as it is cooked in the South.

We stayed several days at Mason's; and after all these years the memory of the dullness, the
stillness and lifelessness of that slumberous farm-house still oppresses my spirit as with
a sense of the presence of death and mourning. There was nothing to do, nothing to think about;
there was no interest in life. The male part of the household were away in the fields all day,
the women were busy and out of our sight; there was no sound but the plaintive wailing of a
spinning-wheel, forever moaning out from some distant room--the most lonesome sound in nature,
a sound steeped and sodden with homesickness and the emptiness of life. The family went to
bed about dark every night, and as we were not invited to intrude any new customs, we naturally
followed theirs. Those nights were a hundred years long to youths accustomed to being up till
twelve. We lay awake and miserable till that hour every time, and grew old and decrepit waiting
through the still eternities for the clock-strikes. This was no place for town boys. So at
last it was with something very like joy that we received news that the enemy were on our track
again. With a new birth of the old warrior spirit, we sprang to our places in line of battle
and fell back on Camp Ralls.

Captain Lyman had taken a hint from Mason's talk, and he now gave ordered that our camp should
be guarded against surprise by the posting of pickets. I was ordered to place a picket at the
forks of the road in Hyde's prairie. Night shut down black and threatening. I told Sergeant
Bowers to go out to that place and stay till midnight; and, just as I was expecting, he said
he wouldn't do it. I tried to get others to go, but all refused. Some excused themselves on
account of the weather; but the rest were frank enough to say they wouldn't go in any kind
of weather. This kind of thing sounds odd now, and impossible, but it seemed a perfectly natural
thing to do. There were scores of little camps scattered over Missouri where the same thing
was happening. These camps were composed of young men who had been born and reared to a sturdy
independence, and who did not know what it meant to be ordered around by Tom, Dick, and Harry,
whom they had known familiarly all their lives, in the village or on the farm. It is quite
within the probabilities that this same thing was happening all over the South. James Redpath
recognised the justice of this assumption, and furnished the following instance in support
of it. During a short stay in East Tennessee he was in a citizen colonel's tent one day, talking,
when a big private appeared at the door, and without salute or other circumlocution said to
the colonel:

'Say, Jim, I'm a-goin' home for a few days.'

'What for?'

'Well, I hain't b'en there for a right smart while, and I'd like to see how things is comin' on.'

'How long are you going to be gone?'

''Bout two weeks.'

'Well don't be gone longer than that; and get back sooner if you can.'

That was all, and the citizen officer resumed his conversation where the private had broken
it off. This was in the first months of the war, of course. The camps in our part of Missouri
were under Brigadier-General Thomas H. Harris. He was a townsman of ours, a first-rate fellow,
and well liked; but we had all familiarly known him as the sole and modest-salaried operator
in our telegraph office, where he had to send about one dispatch a week in ordinary times,
and two when there was a rush of business; consequently, when he appeared in our midst one
day, on the wing, and delivered a military command of some sort, in a large military fashion,
nobody was surprised at the response which he got from the assembled soldiery:

'Oh, now, what'll you take to don't, Tom Harris!'

It was quite the natural thing. One might justly imagine that we were hopeless material for
war. And so we seemed, in our ignorant state; but there were those among us who afterward learned
the grim trade; learned to obey like machines; became valuable soldiers; fought all through
the war, and came out at the end with excellent records. One of the very boys who refused to
go out on picket duty that night, and called me an ass for thinking he would expose himself
to danger in such a foolhardy way, had become distinguished for intrepidity before he was a
year older.

I did secure my picket that night--not by authority, but by diplomacy. I got Bowers to go,
by agreeing to exchange ranks with him for the time being, and go along and stand the watch
with him as his subordinate. We stayed out there a couple of dreary hours in the pitchy darkness
and the rain, with nothing to modify the dreariness but Bowers's monotonous growlings at the
war and the weather; then we began to nod, and presently found it next to impossible to stay
in the saddle; so we gave up the tedious job, and went back to the camp without waiting for
the relief guard. We rode into camp without interruption or objection from anybody, and the
enemy could have done the same, for there were no sentries. Everybody was asleep; at midnight
there was nobody to send out another picket, so none was sent. We never tried to establish
a watch at night again, as far as I remember, but we generally kept a picket out in the daytime.

In that camp the whole command slept on the corn in the big corn-crib; and there was usually
a general row before morning, for the place was full of rats, and they would scramble over
the boys' bodies and faces, annoying and irritating everybody; and now and then they would
bite some one's toe, and the person who owned the toe would start up and magnify his English
and begin to throw corn in the dark. The ears were half as heavy as bricks, and when they struck
they hurt. The persons struck would respond, and inside of five minutes every man would be
locked in a death-grip with his neighbour. There was a grievous deal of blood shed in the corn-crib,
but this was all that was spilt while I was in the war. No, that is not quite true. But for
one circumstance it would have been all. I will come to that now.

Our scares were frequent. Every few days rumours would come that the enemy were approaching.
In these cases we always fell back on some other camp of ours; we never stayed where we were.
But the rumours always turned out to be false; so at last even we began to grow indifferent
to them. One night a negro was sent to our corn-crib with the same old warning: the enemy was
hovering in our neighbourhood. We all said let him hover. We resolved to stay still and be
comfortable. It was a fine warlike resolution, and no doubt we all felt the stir of it in our
veins--for a moment. We had been having a very jolly time, that was full of horse-play and
school-boy hilarity; but that cooled down now, and presently the fast-waning fire of forced
jokes and forced laughs died out altogether, and the company became silent. Silent and nervous.
And soon uneasy--worried--apprehensive. We had said we would stay, and we were committed. We
could have been persuaded to go, but there was nobody brave enough to suggest it. An almost
noiseless movement presently began in the dark, by a general and unvoiced impulse. When the
movement was completed, each man knew that he was not the only person who had crept to the
front wall and had his eye at a crack between the logs. No, we were all there; all there with
our hearts in our throats, and staring out toward the sugar-troughs where the forest foot-path
came through. It was late, and there was a deep woodsy stillness everywhere. There was a veiled
moonlight, which was only just strong enough to enable us to mark the general shape of objects.
Presently a muffled sound caught our ears, and we recognised it as the hoof-beats of a horse
or horses. And right away a figure appeared in the forest path; it could have been made of
smoke, its mass had so little sharpness of outline. It was a man on horseback; and it seemed
to me that there were others behind him. I got hold of a gun in the dark, and pushed it through
a crack between the logs, hardly knowing what I was doing, I was so dazed with fright. Somebody
said 'Fire!' I pulled the trigger. I seemed to see a hundred flashes and hear a hundred reports,
then I saw the man fall down out of the saddle. My first feeling was of surprised gratification;
my first impulse was an apprentice-sportsman's impulse to run and pick up his game. Somebody
said, hardly audibly, 'Good--we've got him!--wait for the rest.' But the rest did not come.
There was not a sound, not the whisper of a leaf; just perfect stillness; an uncanny kind of
stillness, which was all the more uncanny on account of the damp, earthy, late-night smells
now rising and pervading it. Then, wondering, we crept stealthily out, and approached the man.
When we got to him the moon revealed him distinctly. He was lying on his back, with his arms
abroad; his mouth was open and his chest heaving with long gasps, and his white shirt-front
was all splashed with blood. The thought shot through me that I was a murderer; that I had
killed a man--a man who had never done me any harm. That was the coldest sensation that ever
went through my marrow. I was down by him in a moment, helplessly stroking his forehead; and
I would have given anything then--my own life freely--to make him again what he had been five
minutes before. And all the boys seemed to be feeling in the same way; they hung over him,
full of pitying interest, and tried all they could to help him, and said all sorts of regretful
things. They had forgotten all about the enemy; they thought only of this one forlorn unit
of the foe. Once my imagination persuaded me that the dying man gave me a reproachful look
out of his shadowy eyes, and it seemed to me that I would rather he had stabbed me than done
that. He muttered and mumbled like a dreamer in his sleep, about his wife and child; and I
thought with a new despair, 'This thing that I have done does not end with him; it falls upon
them too, and they never did me any harm, any more than he.'

In a little while the man was dead. He was killed in war; killed in fair and legitimate war;
killed in battle, as you might say; and yet he was as sincerely mourned by the opposing force
as if he had been their brother. The boys stood there a half hour sorrowing over him, and recalling
the details of the tragedy, and wondering who he might be, and if he were a spy, and saying
that if it were to do over again they would not hurt him unless he attacked them first. It
soon came out that mine was not the only shot fired; there were five others--a division of
the guilt which was a grateful relief to me, since it in some degree lightened and diminished
the burden I was carrying. There were six shots fired at once; but I was not in my right mind
at the time, and my heated imagination had magnified my one shot into a volley.

The man was not in uniform, and was not armed. He was a stranger in the country; that was all
we ever found out about him. The thought of him got to preying upon me every night; I could
not get rid of it. I could not drive it away, the taking of that unoffending life seemed such
a wanton thing. And it seemed an epitome of war; that all war must be just that--the killing
of strangers against whom you feel no personal animosity; strangers whom, in other circumstances,
you would help if you found them in trouble, and who would help you if you needed it. My campaign
was spoiled. It seemed to me that I was not rightly equipped for this awful business; that
war was intended for men, and I for a child's nurse. I resolved to retire from this avocation
of sham soldiership while I could save some remnant of my self-respect. These morbid thoughts
clung to me against reason; for at bottom I did not believe I had touched that man. The law
of probabilities decreed me guiltless of his blood; for in all my small experience with guns
I had never hit anything I had tried to hit, and I knew I had done my best to hit him. Yet
there was no solace in the thought. Against a diseased imagination, demonstration goes for nothing.

The rest of my war experience was of a piece with what I have already told of it. We kept monotonously
falling back upon one camp or another, and eating up the country--I marvel now at the patience
of the farmers and their families. They ought to have shot us; on the contrary, they were as
hospitably kind and courteous to us as if we had deserved it. In one of these camps we found
Ab Grimes, an Upper Mississippi pilot, who afterwards became famous as a dare-devil rebel spy,
whose career bristled with desperate adventures. The look and style of his comrades suggested
that they had not come into the war to play, and their deeds made good the conjecture later.
They were fine horsemen and good revolver-shots; but their favourite arm was the lasso. Each
had one at his pommel, and could snatch a man out of the saddle with it every time, on a full
gallop, at any reasonable distance.

In another camp the chief was a fierce and profane old blacksmith of sixty, and he had furnished
his twenty recruits with gigantic home-made bowie-knives, to be swung with the two hands, like
the machetes of the Isthmus. It was a grisly spectacle to see that earnest band practising
their murderous cuts and slashes under the eye of that remorseless old fanatic.

The last camp which we fell back upon was in a hollow near the village of Florida, where I
was born--in Monroe County. Here we were warned, one day, that a Union colonel was sweeping
down on us with a whole regiment at his heels. This looked decidedly serious. Our boys went
apart and consulted; then we went back and told the other companies present that the war was
a disappointment to us and we were going to disband. They were getting ready, themselves, to
fall back on some place or other, and were only waiting for General Tom Harris, who was expected
to arrive at any moment; so they tried to persuade us to wait a little while, but the majority
of us said no, we were accustomed to falling back, and didn't need any of Tom Harris's help;
we could get along perfectly well without him and save time too. So about half of our fifteen,
including myself, mounted and left on the instant; the others yielded to persuasion and stayed--stayed
through the war.

An hour later we met General Harris on the road, with two or three people in his company--his
staff, probably, but we could not tell; none of them was in uniform; uniforms had not come
into vogue among us yet. Harris ordered us back; but we told him there was a Union colonel
coming with a whole regiment in his wake, and it looked as if there was going to be a disturbance;
so we had concluded to go home. He raged a little, but it was of no use; our minds were made
up. We had done our share; had killed one man, exterminated one army, such as it was; let him
go and kill the rest, and that would end the war. I did not see that brisk young general again
until last year; then he was wearing white hair and whiskers.

In time I came to know that Union colonel whose coming frightened me out of the war and crippled
the Southern cause to that extent--General Grant. I came within a few hours of seeing him when
he was as unknown as I was myself; at a time when anybody could have said, 'Grant?--Ulysses
S. Grant? I do not remember hearing the name before.' It seems difficult to realise that there
was once a time when such a remark could be rationally made; but there was, and I was within
a few miles of the place and the occasion too, though proceeding in the other direction.

The thoughtful will not throw this war-paper of mine lightly aside as being valueless. It has
this value: it is a not unfair picture of what went on in many and many a militia camp in the
first months of the rebellion, when the green recruits were without discipline, without the
steadying and heartening influence or trained leaders; when all their circumstances were new
and strange, and charged with exaggerated terrors, and before the invaluable experience of
actual collision in the field had turned them from rabbits into soldiers. If this side of the
picture of that early day has not before been put into history, then history has been to that
degree incomplete, for it had and has its rightful place there. There was more Bull Run material
scattered through the early camps of this country than exhibited itself at Bull Run. And yet
it learned its trade presently, and helped to fight the great battles later. I could have become
a soldier myself, if I had waited. I had got part of it learned; I knew more about retreating
than the man that invented retreating.

(1) It was always my impression that that was what the horse was there for, and I know that
it was also the impression of at least one other of the command, for we talked about it at
the time, and admired the military ingenuity of the device; but when I was out West three years
ago I was told by Mr. A. G. Fuqua, a member of our company, that the horse was his, that the
leaving him tied at the door was a matter of mere forgetfulness, and that to attribute it to
intelligent invention was to give him quite too much credit. In support of his position, he
called my attention to the suggestive fact that the artifice was not employed again. I had
not thought of that before.

MEISTERSCHAFT

IN THREE ACTS (1)

DRAMATIS PERSONAE:

     MR. STEPHENSON.         MARGARET STEPHENSON.
     GEORGE FRANKLIN.        ANNIE STEPHENSON.
     WILLIAM JACKSON.        MRS. BLUMENTHAL, the Wirthin.
     GRETCHEN, Kellnerin

ACT I. SCENE I.

Scene of the play, the parlour of a small private dwelling in a village. (MARGARET discovered
crocheting--has a pamphlet.)

MARGARET. (Solus.) Dear, dear! it's dreary enough, to have to study this impossible German
tongue: to be exiled from home and all human society except a body's sister in order to do
it, is just simply abscheulich. Here's only three weeks of the three months gone, and it seems
like three years. I don't believe I can live through it, and I'm sure Annie can't. (Refers
to her book, and rattles through, several times, like one memorising:) Entschuldigen Sie, mein
Herr, konnen Sie mir vielleicht sagen, um wie viel Uhr der erste Zug nach Dresden abgeht? (Makes
mistakes and corrects them.) I just hate Meisterschaft! We may see people; we can have society;
yes, on condition that the conversation shall be in German, and in German only--every single
word of it! Very kind--oh, very! when neither Annie nor I can put two words together, except
as they are put together for us in Meisterschaft or that idiotic Ollendorff! (Refers to book,
and memorises: Mein Bruder hat Ihren Herrn Vater nicht gesehen, als er gestern in dem Laden
des deutschen Kaufmannes war.) Yes, we can have society, provided we talk German. What would
conversation be like! If you should stick to Meisterschaft, it would change the subject every
two minutes; and if you stuck to Ollendorff, it would be all about your sister's mother's good
stocking of thread, or your grandfather's aunt's good hammer of the carpenter, and who's got
it, and there an end. You couldn't keep up your interest in such topics. (Memorising: Wenn
irgend moglich--mochte ich noch heute Vormittag Geschaftsfreunde zu treffen.) My mind is made
up to one thing: I will be an exile, in spirit and in truth: I will see no one during these
three months. Father is very ingenious--oh, very! thinks he is, anyway. Thinks he has invented
a way to force us to learn to speak German. He is a dear good soul, and all that; but invention
isn't his fach'. He will see. (With eloquent energy.) Why, nothing in the world shall--Bitte,
konnen Sie mir vielleicht sagen, ob Herr Schmidt mit diesem Zuge angekommen ist? Oh, dear,
dear George--three weeks! It seems a whole century since I saw him. I wonder if he suspects
that I--that I--care for him--j-just a wee, wee bit? I believe he does. And I believe Will
suspects that Annie cares for him a little, that I do. And I know perfectly well that they
care for us. They agree with all our opinions, no matter what they are; and if they have a
prejudice, they change it, as soon as they see how foolish it is. Dear George! at first he
just couldn't abide cats; but now, why now he's just all for cats; he fairly welters in cats.
I never saw such a reform. And it's just so with all his principles: he hasn't got one that
he had before. Ah, if all men were like him, this world would--(Memorising: Im Gegentheil,
mein Herr, dieser Stoff ist sehr billig. Bitte, sehen Sie sich nur die Qualitat an.) Yes, and
what did they go to studying German for, if it wasn't an inspiration of the highest and purest
sympathy? Any other explanation is nonsense--why, they'd as soon have thought of studying American
history.

(Turns her back, buries herself in her pamphlet, first memorising aloud, until Annie enters,
then to herself, rocking to and fro, and rapidly moving her lips, without uttering a sound.)

Enter ANNIE, absorbed in her pamphlet--does not at first see MARGARET.

ANNIE. (Memorising: Er liess mich gestern fruh rufen, und sagte mir dass er einen sehr unangenehmen
Brief von Ihrem Lehrer erhalten hatte. Repeats twice aloud, then to herself, briskly moving
her lips.)

M. (Still not seeing her sister.) Wie geht es Ihrem Herrn Schwiegervater? Es freut mich sehr
dass Ihre Frau Mutter wieder wohl ist. (Repeats. Then mouths in silence.)

A. (Repeats her sentence a couple of times aloud; then looks up, working her lips, and discovers
Margaret.) Oh, you here? (Running to her.) O lovey-dovey, dovey-lovey, I've got the gr-reatest
news! Guess, guess, guess! You'll never guess in a hundred thousand million years--and more!

M. Oh, tell me, tell me, dearie; don't keep me in agony.

A. Well I will. What--do--you--think? They're here!

M. Wh-a-t! Who? When? Which? Speak!

A. Will and George!

M. Annie Alexandra Victoria Stephenson, what do you mean?

A. As sure as guns!

M. (Spasmodically embracing and kissing her.) 'Sh! don't use such language. O darling, say
it again!

A. As sure as guns!

M. I don't mean that! Tell me again, that--

A. (Springing up and waltzing about the room.) They're here--in this very village--to learn
German--for three months! Es sollte mich sehr freuen wenn Sie--

M. (Joining in the dance.) Oh, it's just too lovely for anything! (Unconsciously memorising:)
Es ware mir lieb wenn Sie morgen mit mir in die Kirche gehen konnten, aber ich kann selbst
nicht gehen, weil ich Sonntags gewohnlich krank bin. Juckhe!

A. (Finishing some unconscious memorising.)--morgen Mittag bei mir speisen konnten. Juckhe!
Sit down and I'll tell you all I've heard. (They sit.) They're here, and under that same odious
law that fetters us--our tongues, I mean; the metaphor's faulty, but no matter. They can go
out, and see people, only on condition that they hear and speak German, and German only.

M. Isn't--that--too lovely!

A. And they're coming to see us!

M. Darling! (Kissing her.) But are you sure?

A. Sure as guns--Gatling guns!

M. 'Sh! don't, child, it's schrecklich! Darling--you aren't mistaken?

A. As sure as g--batteries! (They jump up and dance a moment--then--)

M. (With distress.) But, Annie dear!--we can't talk German--and neither can they!

A. (Sorrowfully.) I didn't think of that.

M. How cruel it is! What can we do?

A. (After a reflective pause, resolutely.) Margaret--we've got to.

M. Got to what?

A. Speak German.

M. Why, how, child?

A. (Contemplating her pamphlet with earnestness.) I can tell you one thing. Just give me the
blessed privilege: just hinsetzen Will Jackson here in front of me, and I'll talk German to
him as long as this Meisterschaft holds out to burn.

M. (Joyously.) Oh, what an elegant idea! You certainly have got a mind that's a mine of resources,
if ever anybody had one.

A. I'll skin this Meisterschaft to the last sentence in it!

M. (With a happy idea.) Why Annie, it's the greatest thing in the world. I've been all this
time struggling and despairing over these few little Meisterschaft primers: but as sure as
you live, I'll have the whole fifteen by heart before this time day after to-morrow. See if
I don't.

A. And so will I; and I'll trowel in a layer of Ollendorff mush between every couple of courses
of Meisterschaft bricks. Juckhe!

M. Hoch! hoch! hoch!

A. Stoss an!

M. Juckhe! Wir werden gleich gute deutsche Schulerinnen werden! Juck--

A. --he!

M. Annie, when are they coming to see us? To-night?

A. No.

M. No? Why not? When are they coming? What are they waiting for? The idea! I never heard of
such a thing! What do you--

A. (Breaking in.) Wait, wait, wait! give a body a chance. They have their reasons.

M. Reasons?--what reasons?

A. Well, now, when you stop and think, they're royal good ones. They've got to talk German
when they come, haven't they? Of course. Well, they don't know any German but Wie befinden
Sie sich, and Haben Sie gut geschlafen, and Vater unser, and Ich trinke lieber Bier als Wasser,
and a few little parlour things like that; but when it comes to talking, why, they don't know
a hundred and fifteen German words, put them all together.

M. Oh, I see.

A. So they're going to neither eat, sleep, smoke, nor speak the truth till they've crammed
home the whole fifteen Meisterschafts auswendig!

M. Noble hearts!

A. They've given themselves till day after to-morrow, half-past 7 P.M., and then they'll arrive
here loaded.

M. Oh, how lovely, how gorgeous, how beautiful! Some think this world is made of mud; I think
it's made of rainbows.

A. So can I. Meisterschaft's mere fun--I don't see how it ever could have seemed difficult.
Come! We can't be disturbed here; let's give orders that we don't want anything to eat for
two days; and are absent to friends, dead to strangers, and not at home even to nougat peddlers--

M. Schon! and we'll lock ourselves into our rooms, and at the end of two days, whosoever may
ask us a Meisterschaft question shall get a Meisterschaft answer--and hot from the bat!

BOTH. (Reciting in unison.) Ich habe einen Hut fur meinen Sohn, ein Paar Handschuhe fur meinen
Bruder, und einen Kamm fur mich selbst gekauft. (Exeunt.)

Enter Mrs. BLUMENTHAL, the Wirthin.

WIRTHIN. (Solus.) Ach, die armen Madchen, sie hassen die deutsche Sprache, drum ist es ganz
und gar unmoglich dass sie sie je lernen konnen. Es bricht mir ja mein Herz ihre Kummer uber
die Studien anzusehen.... Warum haben sie den Entchluss gefasst in ihren Zimmern ein Paar Tagezu
bleiben?... Ja--gewiss--das versteht sich; sie sind entmuthigt--arme Kinder!(A knock at the
door.) Herein!

Enter GRETCHEN with card.

GR. Er ist schon wieder da, und sagt dass er nur Sie sehen will. (Hands the card.) Auch-WIRTHIN.
Gott im Himmel--der Vater der Madchen? (Puts the card in her pocket.) Er wunscht die Tochter
nicht zu treffen? Ganz recht; also, Du schweigst.

GR. Zu Befehl. WIRTHIN. Lass ihn hereinkommen.

GR. Ja, Frau Wirthin! (Exit GRETCHEN.)

WIRTHIN. (Solus.) Ah--jetzt muss ich ihm die Wahrheit offenbaren.

Enter Mr. STEPHENSON.

STEPHENSON. Good-morning, Mrs. Blumenthal--keep your seat, keep your seat, please. I'm only
here for a moment--merely to get your report, you know. (Seating himself.) Don't want to see
the girls--poor things, they'd want to go home with me. I'm afraid I couldn't have the heart
to say no. How's the German getting along?

WIRTHIN. N-not very well; I was afraid you would ask me that. You see, they hate it, they don't
take the least interest in it, and there isn't anything to incite them to an interest, you
see. And so they can't talk at all.

S. M-m. That's bad. I had an idea that they'd get lonesome, and have to seek society; and then,
of course, my plan would work, considering the cast-iron conditions of it.

WIRTHIN. But it hasn't, so far. I've thrown nice company in their way--I've done my very best,
in every way I could think of--but it's no use; they won't go out, and they won't receive anybody.
And a body can't blame them; they'd be tongue-tied--couldn't do anything with a German conversation.
Now, when I started to learn German--such poor German as I know--the case was very different:
my intended was a German. I was to live among Germans the rest of my life; and so I had to
learn. Why, bless my heart! I nearly lost the man the first time he asked me--I thought he
was talking about the measles. They were very prevalent at the time. Told him I didn't want
any in mine. But I found out the mistake, and I was fixed for him next time.... Oh yes, Mr.
Stephenson, a sweetheart's a prime incentive.

S. (Aside.) Good soul! she doesn't suspect that my plan is a double scheme--includes a speaking
knowledge of German, which I am bound they shall have, and the keeping them away from those
two young fellows--though if I had known that those boys were going off for a year's foreign
travel, I--however, the girls would never learn that language at home; they're here, and I
won't relent--they've got to stick the three months out. (Aloud.) So they are making poor progress?
Now tell me--will they learn it--after a sort of fashion, I mean--in three months?

WIRTHIN. Well, now, I'll tell you the only chance I see. Do what I will, they won't answer
my German with anything but English; if that goes on, they'll stand stock-still. Now I'm willing
to do this: I'll straighten everything up, get matters in smooth running order, and day after
to-morrow I'll go to bed sick, and stay sick three weeks.

S. Good! You are an angel? I see your idea. The servant girl--

WIRTHIN. That's it; that's my project. She doesn't know a word of English. And Gretchen's a
real good soul, and can talk the slates off a roof. Her tongue's just a flutter-mill. I'll
keep my room--just ailing a little--and they'll never see my face except when they pay their
little duty-visits to me, and then I'll say English disorders my mind. They'll be shut up with
Gretchen's windmill, and she'll just grind them to powder. Oh, they'll get a start in the language--sort
of a one, sure's you live. You come back in three weeks.

S. Bless you, my Retterin! I'll be here to the day! Get ye to your sick-room--you shall have
treble pay. (Looking at watch.) Good! I can just catch my train. Leben Sie wohl! (Exit.)

WIRTHIN. Leben Sie wohl! mein Herr!

ACT II. SCENE I.

Time, a couple of days later. The girls discovered with their work and primers.

ANNIE. Was fehlt der Wirthin?

MARGARET. Das weiss ich nicht. Sie ist schon vor zwei Tagen ins Bett gegangen--

A. My! how fliessend you speak!

M. Danke schon--und sagte dass sie nicht wohl sei.

A. Good? Oh no, I don't mean that! no--only lucky for us--glucklich, you know I mean because
it'll be so much nicer to have them all to ourselves.

M. Oh, naturlich! Ja! Dass ziehe ich durchaus vor. Do you believe your Meisterschaft will stay
with you, Annie?

A. Well, I know it is with me--every last sentence of it; and a couple of hods of Ollendorff,
too, for emergencies. Maybe they'll refuse to deliver--right off--at first, you know--der Verlegenheit
wegen--aber ich will sie spater herausholen--when I get my hand in--und vergisst Du das nicht!

M. Sei nicht grob, Liebste. What shall we talk about first--when they come?

A. Well--let me see. There's shopping--and--all that about the trains, you know--and going
to church--and--buying tickets to London, and Berlin, and all around--and all that subjunctive
stuff about the battle in Afghanistan, and where the American was said to be born, and so on--and--and
ah--oh, there's so many things--I don't think a body can choose beforehand, because you know
the circumstances and the atmosphere always have so much to do in directing a conversation,
especially a German conversation, which is only a kind of an insurrection, anyway. I believe
it's best to just depend on Prov--(Glancing at watch, and gasping.)--half-past--seven!

M. Oh, dear, I'm all of a tremble! Let's get something ready, Annie! (They repeat it several
times, losing their grip and mixing it all up.)

BOTH. Herein! Oh, dear! O der heilige--

Enter GRETCHEN.

GRETCHEN (Ruffled and indignant.) Entschuldigen Sie, meine gnadigsten Fraulein, es sind zwei
junge rasende Herren draussen, die herein wollen, aber ich habe ihnen geschworen dass--(Handing
the cards.)

M. Due liebe Zeit, they're here! And of course down goes my back hair! Stay and receive them,
dear, while I--(Leaving.)

A. I--alone? I won't! I'll go with you! (To GR.) Lassen Sie die Herren naher treten; und sagen
Sie ihnen dass wir gleich zuruckkommen werden. (Exit.)

GR. (Solus.) Was! Sie freuen sich daruber? Und ich sollte wirklich diese Blodsinnigen, dies
grobe Rindvieh hereinlassen? In den hulflosen Umstanden meiner gnadigen jungen Damen?--Unsinn!
(Pause--thinking.) Wohlan! Ich werde sie mal beschutzen! Sollte man nicht glauben, dass sie
einen Sparren zu viel hatten? (Tapping her skull significantly.) Was sie mir doch Alles gesagt
haben! Der Eine: Guten Morgen! wie geht es Ihrem Herrn Schwiegervater? Du liebe Zeit! Wie sollte
ich einen Schwiegervater haben konnen! Und der Andere: 'Es thut mir sehr leid dass Ihrer Herr
Vater meinen Bruder nicht gesehen hat, als er doch gestern in dem Laden des deutschen Kaufmannes
war!' Potztausendhimmelsdonnerwetter! Oh, ich war ganz rasend! Wie ich aber rief: 'Meine Herren,
ich kenne Sie nicht, und Sie kennen meinen Vater nicht, wissen Sie, denn er ist schon lange
durchgebrannt, und geht nicht beim Tage in einen Laden hinein, wissen Sie--und ich habe keinen
Schwiegervater, Gott sei Dank, werde auch nie einen kriegen, werde uberhaupt, wissen Sie, ein
solches Ding nie haben, nie dulden, nie ausstehen: warum greifen Sie ein Madchen an, das nur
Unschuld kennt, das Ihnen nie Etwas zu Leide gethan hat?' Dann haben sie sich beide die Finger
in die Ohren gesteckt und gebetet: 'Allmachtiger Gott! Erbarme Dich unser?' (Pauses.) Nun,
ich werde schon diesen Schurken Einlass gonnen, aber ich werde ein Auge mit ihnen haben, damit
sie sich nicht wie reine Teufel geberden sollen. (Exit, grumbling and shaking her head.)

Enter WILLIAM and GEORGE.

W. My land, what a girl! and what an incredible gift of gabble!--kind of patent climate-proof
compensation-balance self-acting automatic Meisterschaft--touch her button, and br-r-r! away
she goes!

GEO. Never heard anything like it; tongue journalled on ball-bearings! I wonder what she said;
seemed to be swearing, mainly.

W. (After mumbling Meisterschaft a while.) Look here, George, this is awful--come to think--this
project: we can't talk this frantic language.

GEO. I know it, Will, and it is awful; but I can't live without seeing Margaret--I've endured
it as long as I can. I should die if I tried to hold out longer--and even German is preferable
to death.

W. (Hesitatingly.) Well, I don't know; it's a matter of opinion.

GEO. (Irritably.) It isn't a matter of opinion either. German is preferable to death.

W. (Reflectively.) Well, I don't know--the problem is so sudden--but I think you may be right:
some kinds of death. It is more than likely that a slow, lingering--well, now, there in Canada
in the early times a couple of centuries ago, the Indians would take a missionary and skin
him, and get some hot ashes and boiling water and one thing and another, and by-and-by that
missionary--well, yes, I can see that, by-and-by, talking German could be a pleasant change
for him.

GEO. Why, of course. Das versteht sich; but you have to always think a thing out, or you're
not satisfied. But let's not go to bothering about thinking out this present business; we're
here, we're in for it; you are as moribund to see Annie as I am to see Margaret; you know the
terms: we've got to speak German. Now stop your mooning and get at your Meisterschaft; we've
got nothing else in the world.

W. Do you think that'll see us through?

GEO. Why it's got to. Suppose we wandered out of it and took a chance at the language on our
own responsibility, where the nation would we be! Up a stump, that's where. Our only safety
is in sticking like wax to the text.

W. But what can we talk about?

GEO. Why, anything that Meisterschaft talks about. It ain't our affair.

W. I know; but Meisterschaft talks about everything.

GEO. And yet don't talk about anything long enough for it to get embarrassing. Meisterschaft
is just splendid for general conversation.

W. Yes, that's so; but it's so blamed general! Won't it sound foolish?

GEO. Foolish! Why, of course; all German sounds foolish.

W. Well, that is true; I didn't think of that.

GEO. Now, don't fool around any more. Load up; load up; get ready. Fix up some sentences; you'll
need them in two minutes new. (They walk up and down, moving their lips in dumb-show memorising.)

W. Look here--when we've said all that's in the book on a topic, and want to change the subject,
how can we say so?--how would a German say it?

GEO. Well, I don't know. But you know when they mean 'Change cars,' they say Umsteigen. Don't
you reckon that will answer?

W. Tip-top! It's short and goes right to the point; and it's got a business whang to it that's
almost American. Umsteigen!--change subject!--why, it's the very thing!

GEO. All right, then, you umsteigen--for I hear them coming.

Enter the girls.

A. to W. (With solemnity.) Guten Morgen, mein Herr, es freut mich sehr, Sie zu sehen.

W. Guten Morgen, mein Fraulein, es freut mich sehr Sie zu sehen.

(MARGARET and GEORGE repeat the same sentences. Then, after an embarrassing silence, MARGARET
refers to her book and says:)

M. Bitte, meine Herren, setzen Sie sich.

THE GENTLEMEN. Danke schon.(The four seat themselves in couples, the width of the stage apart,
and the two conversations begin. The talk is not flowing--at any rate at first; there are painful
silences all along. Each couple worry out a remark and a reply: there is a pause of silent
thinking, and then the other couple deliver themselves.)

W. Haben Sie meinen Vater in dem Laden meines Bruders nicht gesehen?

A. Nein, mein Herr, ich habe Ihren Herrn Vater in dem Laden Ihres Herrn Bruders nicht gesehen.

GEO. Waren Sie gestern Abend im Koncert, oder im Theater?

M. Nein, ich war gestern Abend nicht im Koncert, noch im Theater, ich war gestern Abend zu
Hause.(General break-down--long pause.)

W. Ich store doch nicht etwa?

A. Sie storen mich durchaus nicht.

GEO. Bitte, lassen Sie sich nicht von mir storen.

M. Aber ich bitte Sie, Sie storen mich durchaus nicht.

W. (To both girls.) Wenn wir Sie storen so gehen wir gleich wieder.

A. O, nein! Gewiss, nein!

M. Im Gegentheil, es freut uns sehr, Sie zu sehen, alle beide.

W. Schon!

GEO. Gott sei dank!

M. (Aside.) It's just lovely!

A. (Aside.) It's like a poem. (Pause.)

W. Umsteigen!

M. Um--welches?

W. Umsteigen.

GEO. Auf English, change cars--oder subject.

BOTH GIRLS. Wie schon!

W. Wir haben uns die Freiheit genommen, bei Ihnen vorzusprechen.

A. Sie sind sehr gutig.

GEO. Wir wollten uns erkundigen, wie Sie sich befanden.

M. Ich bin Ihnen sehr verbunden--meine Schwester auch.

W. Meine Frau lasst sich Ihnen bestens empfehlen.

A. Ihre Frau?

W. (Examining his book.) Vielleicht habe ich mich geirrt. (Shows the place.) Nein, gerade so
sagt das Buch.

A. (Satisfied.) Ganz recht. Aber--

W. Bitte empfehlen Sie mich Ihrem Herrn Bruder.

A. Ah, das ist viel besser--viel besser. (Aside.) Wenigstens es ware viel besser wenn ich einen
Bruder hatte.

GEO. Wie ist es Ihnen gegangen, seitdem ich das Vergnugen hatte, Sie anderswo zu sehen?

M. Danke bestens, ich befinde mich gewohnlich ziemlich wohl.

(GRETCHEN slips in with a gun, and listens.)

GEO. (Still to Margaret.) Befindet sich Ihre Frau Gemahlin wohl?

GR. (Raising hands and eyes.) Frau Gemahlin--heiliger Gott! (Is like to betray herself with
her smothered laughter, and glides out.)

M. Danke sehr, meine Frau ist ganz wohl. (Pause.)

W. Durfen wir vielleicht--umsteigen?

THE OTHERS. Gut!

GEO. (Aside.) I feel better, now. I'm beginning to catch on. (Aloud.) Ich mochte gern morgen
fruh einige Einkaufe machen und wurde Ihnen seht verbunden sein, wenn Sie mir den Gefallen
thaten, mir die Namen der besten hiesigen Firmen aufzuschreiben.

M. (Aside.) How sweet!

W. (Aside.) Hang it, I was going to say that! That's one of the noblest things in the book.

A. Ich mochte Ihnen gern begleiten, aber es ist mir wirklich heute Morgen ganz unmoglich auszugehen.
(Aside.) It's getting as easy as 9 times 7 is 46.

M. Sagen Sie dem Brieftrager, wenn's gefallig ist, er, mochte Ihnen den eingeschriebenen Brief
geben lassen.

W. Ich wurde Ihnen sehr verbunden sein, wenn Sie diese Schachtel fur mich nach der Post tragen
wurden, da mir sehr daran liegt einen meiner Geschaftsfreunde in dem Laden des deutschen Kaufmanns
heute Abend treffen zu konnen. (Aside.) All down but nine; set'm up on the other alley!

A. Aber, Herr Jackson! Sie haven die Satze gemischt. Es ist unbegreiflich wie Sie das haben
thun konnen. Zwischen Ihrem ersten Theil und Ihrem letzten Theil haben Sie ganz funfzig Seiten
ubergeschlagen! Jetzt bin ich ganz verloren. Wie kann man reden, wenn man seinen Platz durchaus
nicht wieder finden kann?

W. Oh, bitte, verzeihen Sie; ich habe das wirklich nicht beabsichtigt.

A. (Mollified.) Sehr wohl, lassen Sie gut sein. Aber thun Sie es nicht wieder. Sie mussen ja
doch einraumen, das solche Dinge unertragliche Verwirrung mit sich fuhren.

(GRETCHEN slips in again with her gun.)

W. Unzweifelhaft haben Sic Recht, meine holdselige Landsmannin.... Umsteigen!

(As GEORGE gets fairly into the following, GRETCHEN draws a bead on him, and lets drive at
the close, but the gun snaps.)

GEO. Glauben Sie dass ich ein hubsches Wohnzimmer fur mich selbst und ein kleines Schlafzimmer
fur meinen Sohn in diesem Hotel fur funfzehn Mark die Woche bekommen kann, oder, wurden Sie
mir rathen, in einer Privatwohnung Logis zu nehmen? (Aside.) That's a daisy!

GR. (Aside.) Schade! (She draws her charge and reloads.)

M. Glauben Sie nicht Sie werden besser thun bei diesem Wetter zu Hause zu bleiben?

A. Freilich glaube ich, Herr Franklin, Sie werden sich erkalten, wenn Sie bei diesem unbestandigen
Wetter ohne Ueberrock ausgehen.

GR. (Relieved--aside.) So? Man redet von Ausgehen. Das klingt schon besser. (Sits.)

W. (To A.) Wie theuer haben Sie das gekauft? (Indicating a part of her dress.)

A. Das hat achtzehn Mark gekostet.

W. Das ist sehr theuer.

GEO. Ja, obgleich dieser Stoff wunderschon ist und das Muster sehr geschmackvoll und auch das
Vorzuglichste dass es in dieser Art gibt, so ist es doch furchtbat theuer fur einen solcehn
Artikel.

M. (Aside.) How sweet is this communion of soul with soul!

A. Im Gegentheil, mein Herr, das ist sehr billig. Sehen Sie sich nur die Qualitat an.

(They all examine it.)

GEO. Moglicherweise ist es das allerneuste das man in diesem Stoff hat; aber das Muster gefallt
mir nicht.

(Pause.)

W. Umsteigen!

A. Welchen Hund haben Sie? Haben Sie den hubschen Hund des Kaufmanns, oder den hasslichen Hund
der Urgrossmutter des Lehrlings des bogenbeinigen Zimmermanns?

W. (Aside.) Oh, come, she's ringing in a cold deck on us: that's Ollendorff.

GEO. Ich habe nicht den Hund des--des--(Aside.) Stuck! That's no Meisterschaft; they don't
play fair. (Aloud.) Ich habe nicht den Hund des--des--In unserem Buche leider, gibt es keinen
Hund; daher, ob ich auch gern von solchen Thieren sprechen mochte, ist es mir doch unmoglich,
weil ich nicht vorbereitet bin. Entschuldigen Sie, meine Damen.

GR. (Aside) Beim Teufel, sie sind alle blodsinnig geworden. In meinem Leben habe ich nie ein
so narrisches, verfluchtes, verdammtes Gesprach gehort.

W. Bitte, umsteigen.

(Run the following rapidly through.)

M. (Aside.) Oh, I've flushed an easy batch! (Aloud.) Wurden Sie mir erlauben meine Reisetasche
heir hinzustellen?

GR. (Aside.) Wo ist seine Reisetasche? Ich sehe keine.

W. Bitte sehr.

GEO. Ist meine Reisetasche Ihnen im Wege?

GR. (Aside.) Und wo ist seine Reisetasche?

A. Erlauben Sie mir Sie von meiner Reisetasche zu bereien.

GR. (Aside.) Du Esel!

W. Ganz und gar nicht. (To Geo.) Es ist sehr schwul in diesem Coupe.

GR. (Aside.) Coupe.

GEO. Sie haben Recht. Erlauben Sie mir, gefalligst, das Fenster zu offnen. Ein wenig Luft wurde
uns gut thun.

M. Wir fahren sehr rasch.

A. Haben Sie den Namen jener Station gehort?

W. Wie lange halten wir auf dieser Station an?

GEO. Ich reise nach Dresden, Schaffner. Wo muss ich umsteigen?

GR. (Aside.) Sie sind ja alle ganz und gar verruckt. Man denke sich sie glauben dass sie auf
der Eisenbahn reisen.

GEO. (Aside, to William.) Now brace up; pull all your confidence together, my boy, and we'll
try that lovely goodbye business a flutter. I think it's about the gaudiest thing in the book,
if you boom it right along and don't get left on a base. It'll impress the girls. (Aloud.)
Lassen Sie uns gehen: es ist schon sehr spat, und ich muss morgen ganz fruh aufstehen.

GR. (Aside--grateful.) Gott sei Dank dass sie endlich gehen.

(Sets her gun aside.)

W. (To Geo.) Ich danke Ihnen hoflichst fur die Ehre die Sie mir erweisen, aber ich kann nicht
langer bleiben.

GEO. (To W.) Entschuldigen Sie mich gutigst, aber ich kann wirklich nicht langer bleiben.

(GRETCHEN looks on stupefied.)

W. (To Geo.) Ich habe schon eine Einladung angenommen; ich kann wirklich nicht langer bleiben.

(GRETCHEN fingers her gun again.)

GEO. (To W.) Ich muss gehen.

W. (To GEO.) Wie! Sie wollen schon wieder gehen? Sie sind ja eben erst gekommen.

M. (Aside.) It's just music!

A. (Aside.) Oh, how lovely they do it!

GEO. (To W.) Also denken Sie doch noch nicht an's Gehen.

W. (To Geo.) Es thut mir unendlich leid, aber ich muss nach Hause. Meine Frau wird sich wundern,
was aus mir geworden ist.

GEO. (To W.) Meine Frau hat keine Ahnung wo ich bin: ich muss wirklich jetzt fort.

W. (To Geo.) Dann will ich Sie nicht langer aufhalten; ich bedaure sehr dass Sie uns einen
so kurzen Besuch gemacht haben.

GEO. (To W.) Adieu--auf recht baldiges Wiedersehen.

W. UMSTEIGNEN!

(Great hand-clapping from the girls.)

M. (Aside.) Oh, how perfect! how elegant!

A. (Aside.) Per-fectly enchanting!

JOYOUS CHORUS. (All) Ich habe gehabt, du hast gehabt, er hat gehabt, wir haben gehabt, ihr
habet gehabt, sie haben gehabt.

(GRETCHEN faints, and tumbles from her chair, and the gun goes off with a crash. Each girl,
frightened, seizes the protecting hand of her sweetheart. GRETCHEN scrambles up. Tableau.)

W. (Takes out some money--beckons Gretchen to him. George adds money to the pile.) Hubsches
Madchen (giving her some of the coins), hast Du etwas gesehen?

GR. (Courtesy--aside.) Der Engel! (Aloud--impressively.) Ich habe nichts gesehen.

W. (More money.) Hast Du etwas gehort?

GR. Ich habe nichts gehort.

W. (More money.) Und morgen?

GR. Morgen--ware es nothig--bin ich taub und blind.

W. Unvergleichbares Madchen! Und (giving the rest of the money) darnach?

GR. (Deep courtesy--aside.) Erzengel! (Aloud.) Darnach, mein gnadgister, betrachten Sie mich
also taub--blind--todt!

ALL.

ACT III.

Three weeks later.

SCENE I.

