Colonel Talbot got to his own house about the middle of February,--nearly at the same time
at which the news of his escape reached St. Mary's. He there lay warily watching the coming
hue and cry for his apprehension. He collected his friends, armed them, and set them at watch
and ward, at all his outposts. He had a disguise provided, in which he occasionally ventured
abroad. Kemble met him, on the 19th of February, at George Oldfield's, on Elk River; and although
the Colonel was disguised in a flaxen wig, and in other ways, Kemble says he knew him by hearing
him cough in the night, in a room adjoining that in which Kemble slept. Whilst this witness
was at Oldfield's, "Talbot's shallop," he says, "was busking and turning before Oldfield's
landing for several hours." The roads leading towards Talbot's house were all guarded by his
friends, and he had a report made to him of every vessel that arrived in the river. By way
of more permanent concealment, until the storm should blow over, he had made preparations to
build himself a cabin, somewhere in the woods out of the range of the thoroughfares of the
district. When driven by a pressing emergency which required more than ordinary care to prevent
his apprehension, he betook himself to the cave on the Susquehanna, where, most probably, with
a friend or two,--Cornet Murray I hope was one of them,--he lay perdu for a few days at a time,
and then ventured back to speak a word of comfort and encouragement to the faithful wife who
kept guard at home.

In this disturbed and anxious alternation of concealment and flight Talbot passed the winter,
until about the 25th of April, when, probably upon advice of friends, he voluntarily surrendered
himself to the Council at St. Mary's, and was committed for trial in the provincial Court.
The fact of the surrender was communicated to Lord Effingham by the Council, with a request
that he would send the witnesses to Maryland to appear at his trial. Hereupon arose another
correspondence with his Lordship, which is worthy of a moment's notice. Lord Effingham has
lost nothing of his arrogance. He says, on the 12th of May, 1685, "I am so far from answering
your desires, that I do hereby demand Colonel Talbot as my prisoner, in the King of England's
name, and that you do forthwith convey him into Virginia. And to this my demand I expect your
ready performance and compliance, upon your allegiance to his Majesty."

I am happy to read the answer to this insolent letter, in which it will be seen that the spirit
of Maryland was waked up on the occasion to its proper voice.--It is necessary to say, by way
of explanation to one point in this answer, that the Governor of Virginia had received the
news of the accession and proclamation of James the Second, and had not communicated it to
the Council in Maryland. The Council give an answer at their leisure, having waited till the
1st of June, when they write to his Lordship, protesting against Virginia's exercising any
superintendence over Maryland, and peremptorily refusing to deliver Talbot. They tell him "that
we are desirous and conclude to await his Majesty's resolution, [in regard to the prisoner,]
which we question not will be agreeable to his Lordship's Charter, and, consequently, contrary
to your expectations. In the mean time we cannot but resent in some measure, for we are willing
to let you see that we observe, the small notice you seem to take of this Government, (contrary
to that amicable correspondence so often promised, and expected by us,) in not holding us worthy
to be advised of his Majesty's being proclaimed, without which, certainly, we have not been
enabled to do our duty in that particular. Such advice would have been gratefully received
by your Excellency's humble servants." Thanks, Colonels Darnall and Digges and you other Colonels
and Majors, for this plain outspeaking of the old Maryland heart against the arrogance of the
"Right Honorable Lord Howard, Baron of Effingham, Captain General and Chief Governor of his
Majesty's Colony of Virginia," as he styles himself! I am glad to see this change of tone,
since that first letter of obsequious submission.

Perhaps this change of tone may have had some connection with the recent change on the throne,
in which the accession of a Catholic monarch may have given new courage to Maryland, and abated
somewhat the confidence of Virginia. If so, it was but a transitory hope, born to a sad disappointment.

The documents afford but little more information.

Lord Baltimore, being in London, appears to have interceded with the King for some favor to
Talbot, and writes to the Council on the third of July, "that it formerly was and still is
the King's pleasure, that Talbot shall be brought over, in the Quaker Ketch, to England, to
receive his trial there; and that, in order thereto, his Majesty had sent his commands to the
Governor of Virginia to deliver him to Captain Allen, commander of said ketch, who is to bring
him over." The Proprietary therefore directs his Council to send the prisoner to the Governor
of Virginia, "to the end that his Majesty's pleasure may be fulfilled."

This letter was received on the 7th of October, 1685, and Talbot was accordingly sent, under
the charge of Gilbert Clarke and a proper guard, to Lord Effingham, who gives Clarke a regular
business receipt, as if he had brought him a hogshead of tobacco, and appends to it a short
apologetic explanation of his previous rudeness, which we may receive as another proof of his
distrust of the favor of the new monarch. "I had not been so urgent," he says, "had I not had
advices from England, last April, of the measures that were taken there concerning him."

After this my chronicle is silent. We have no further tidings of Talbot. The only hint for
a conjecture is the marginal note of "The Landholder's Assistant," got from Chalmers: "He was,
I believe," says the note, "tried and convicted, and finally pardoned by James the Second."
This is probably enough. For I suppose him to have been of the same family with that Earl of
Tyrconnel equally distinguished for his influence with James the Second as for his infamous
life and character, who held at this period unbounded sway at the English Court. I hope, for
the honor of our hero, that he preserved no family-likeness to that false-hearted, brutal,
and violent favorite, who is made immortal in Macaulay's pages as Lying Dick Talbot. Through
his intercession his kinsman may have been pardoned, or even never brought to trial.

CHAPTER X.

CONCLUSION.

This is the end of my story. But, like all stories, it requires that some satisfaction should
be given to the reader in regard to the dramatic proprieties. We have our several heroes to
dispose of. Phelim Murray and Hugh Riley, who had both been arrested by the Council to satisfy
public opinion as to their complicity in the plot for the escape, were both honorably discharged,--I
suppose being found entirely innocent! Roger Skreene swore himself black and blue, as the phrase
is, that he had not the least suspicion of the business in which he was engaged; and so he
was acquitted! I am also glad to be able to say that our gallant Cornet Murray, in the winding-up
of this business, was promoted by the Council to a captaincy of cavalry, and put in command
of Christiana Fort and its neighborhood, to keep that formidable Quaker, William Penn, at a
respectful distance. It would gratify me still more, if I could find warrant to add, that the
Cornet enjoyed himself, and married the lady of his choice, with whom he has, unknown to us,
been violently in love during these adventures, and that they lived happily together for many
years. I hope this was so,--although the chronicle does not allow one to affirm it,--it being
but a proper conclusion to such a romance as I have plucked out of our history.

And so I have traced the tradition of the Cave to the end. What I have been able to certify
furnishes the means of a shrewd estimate of the average amount of truth which popular traditions
generally contain. There is always a fact at the bottom, lying under a superstructure of fiction,--truth
enough to make the pursuit worth following. Talbot did not live in the Cave, but fled there
occasionally for concealment. He had no hawks with him, but bred them in his own mews on the
Elk River. The birds seen in after times were some of this stock, and not the solitary pair
they were supposed to be. I dare say an expert naturalist would find many specimens of the
same breed now in that region. But let us not be too critical on the tradition, which has led
us into a quest through which I have been able to supply what I hope will be found to be a
pleasant insight into that little world of action and passion,--with its people, its pursuits,
and its gossips,--that, more than one hundred and seventy years ago, inhabited the beautiful
banks of St. Mary's River, and wove the web of our early Maryland history.

POSTSCRIPT.

I have another link in the chain of Talbot's history, furnished me by a friend in Virginia.
It comes since I have completed my narrative, and very accurately confirms the conjecture of
Chalmers, quoted in the note of "The Landholder's Assistant." "As for Colonel Talbot, he was
conveyed for trial to Virginia, from whence he made his escape, and, after being retaken, and,
I believe, tried and convicted, was finally pardoned by King James II." This is an extract
from the note. It is now ascertained that Talbot was not taken to England for trial, as Lord
Baltimore, in his letter of the 6th of July, 1685, affirmed it was the King's pleasure he should
be; but that he was tried and convicted in Virginia on the 22d of April, 1686, and, on the
26th of the same month, reprieved by order of the King; after which we may presume he received
a full pardon, and perhaps was taken to England in obedience to the royal command, to await
it there. The conviction and reprieve are recorded in a folio of the State Records of Virginia
at Richmond, on a mutilated and scarcely legible sheet,--a copy of which I present to my reader
with all its obliterations and broken syllables and sad gashes in the text, for his own deciphering.
The MS. is in keeping with the whole story, and may be looked upon as its appropriate emblem.
The story has been brought to light by chance, and has been rendered intelligible by close
study and interpretation of fragmentary and widely separated facts, capable of being read only
by one conversant with the text of human affairs, and who has the patience to grope through
the trackless intervals of time, and the skill to supply the lost words and syllables of history
by careful collation with those which are spared. How faithfully this accidentally found MS.
typifies such a labor, the reader may judge from the literal copy of it I now offer to his perusal.

  By his Excellency

  Whereas his most Sacred Majesty has been Graciously pleased
  by his Royall Com'ands to Direct and Com'and Me ffrancis
  Lord Howard of Effingham his Maj'ties Lieut and Gov'r. Gen'll.
  of Virginia that if George Talbott Esq'r. upon his Tryall should
  be found Guilty of Killing M'r Christopher Rowsby, that Execution
  should be suspended untill his Majesties pleasure should
  be further signified unto Me; And forasmuch as the sd George
  Talbott was Indicted upon the Statute of Stabbing and hath
  Received a full and Legall Tryall in open Court on y'e Twentieth
  and One and Twentieth dayes of this Instant Aprill, before his
  Majesties Justices of Oyer and Terminer, and found Guilty of y'e
  aforesaid fact and condemned for the Same, I, therefore, *ffrancis
  Lord Howard, Baron of *ffingham, his Majesties Lieu't and Gov'r.
  Gen'll. Of Virginia, by Virtue of *aj'ties Royall Com'ands
  to Me given there * doe hereby Suspend *tion of the
  Sentence of death * his Maj'ties Justices
  * Terminer on the * till his Majesties
  *erein be * nor any
  * fail as yo* uttmost
  * and for y'r soe doing this sh*

  Given under my and * Seale

  the 26th dayof Apri*

  EFFINGHAM

  To his Majesties Justices
  of Oyer and Terminer.

  Recordatur E Chillon Gen'l Car*

  [Endorsed]

  Talbott's Repreif
  from L'd Howard
  1686 for Killing Ch'r. Rousby
  Examined Sept. 24th
  26th Aprill 1686
  Sentence of
  ag'* Col Ta
  Suspended
  Aprill 26* 1*86

PRINCE ADEB.

  In Sana, oh, in Sana, God, the Lord,
  Was very kind and merciful to me!
  Forth from the Desert in my rags I came,
  Weary and sore of foot. I saw the spires
  And swelling bubbles of the golden domes
  Rise through the trees of Sana, and my heart
  Grew great within me with the strength of God;
  And I cried out, "Now shall I right myself,--
  I, Adeb the Despised,--for God is just!"
  There he who wronged my father dwelt in peace,--
  My warlike father, who, when gray hairs crept
  Around his forehead, as on Lebanon
  The whitening snows of winter, was betrayed
  To the sly Imam, and his tented wealth
  Swept from him, 'twixt the roosting of the cock
  And his first crowing,--in a single night:
  And I, poor Adeb, sole of all my race,
  Smeared with my father's and my kinsmen's blood,
  Fled through the Desert, till one day a tribe
  Of hungry Bedouins found me in the sand,
  Half mad with famine, and they took me up,
  And made a slave of me,--of me, a prince!
  All was fulfilled at last. I fled from them,
  In rags and sorrow. Nothing but my heart,
  Like a strong swimmer, bore me up against
  The howling sea of my adversity.
  At length o'er Sana, in the act to swoop,
  I stood like a young eagle on a crag.
  The traveller passed me with suspicious fear:
  I asked for nothing; I was not a thief.
  The lean dogs snuffed around me: my lank bones,
  Fed on the berries and the crusted pools,
  Were a scant morsel. Once, a brown-skinned girl
  Called me a little from the common path,
  And gave me figs and barley in a bag.
  I paid her with a kiss, with nothing more,
  And she looked glad; for I was beautiful,
  And virgin as a fountain, and as cold.
  I stretched her bounty, pecking, like a bird,
  Her figs and barley, till my strength returned.
  So when rich Sana lay beneath my eyes,
  My foot was as the leopard's, and my hand
  As heavy as the lion's brandished paw;
  And underneath my burnished skin the veins
  And stretching muscles played, at every step,
  In wondrous motion. I was very strong.
  I looked upon my body, as a bird
  That bills his feathers ere he takes to flight,--
  I, watching over Sana. Then I prayed;
  And on a soft stone, wetted in the brook,
  Ground my long knife; and then I prayed again.
  God heard my voice, preparing all for me,
  As, softly stepping down the hills,
  I saw the Imam's summer-palace all ablaze
  In the last flash of sunset. Every fount
  Was spouting fire, and all the orange-trees
  Bore blazing coals, and from the marble walls
  And gilded spires and columns, strangely wrought,
  Glared the red light, until my eyes were pained
  With the fierce splendor. Till the night grew thick,
  I lay within the bushes, next the door,
  Still as a serpent, as invisible.
  The guard hung round the portal. Man by man
  They dropped away, save one lone sentinel,
  And on his eyes God's finger lightly fell;
  He slept half standing. Like a summer wind
  That threads the grove, yet never turns a leaf,
  I stole from shadow unto shadow forth;
  Crossed all the marble court-yard, swung the door,
  Like a soft gust, a little way ajar,--
  My body's narrow width, no more,--and stood
  Beneath the cresset in the painted hall.
  I marvelled at the riches of my foe;
  I marvelled at God's ways with wicked men.
  Then I reached forth, and took God's waiting hand:
  And so He led me over mossy floors,
  Flowered with the silken summer of Shirar,
  Straight to the Imam's chamber. At the door
  Stretched a brawn eunuch, blacker than my eyes:
  His woolly head lay like the Kaba-stone
  In Mecca's mosque, as silent and as huge.
  I stepped across it, with my pointed knife
  Just missing a full vein along his neck,
  And, pushing by the curtains, there I was,--
  I, Adeb the Despised,--upon the spot
  That, next to heaven, I longed for most of all.
  I could have shouted for the joy in me.
  Fierce pangs and flashes of bewildering light
  Leaped through my brain and danced before my eyes.
  So loud my heart beat that I feared its sound
  Would wake the sleeper; and the bubbling blood
  Choked in my throat, till, weaker than a child,
  I reeled against a column, and there hung
  In a blind stupor. Then I prayed again;
  And, sense by sense, I was made whole once more.
  I touched myself; I was the same; I knew
  Myself to be lone Adeb, young and strong,
  With nothing but a stride of empty air
  Between me and God's justice. In a sleep,
  Thick with the fumes of the accursed grape,
  Sprawled the false Imam. On his shaggy breast,
  Like a white lily heaving on the tide
  Of some foul stream, the fairest woman slept
  These roving eyes have ever looked upon.
  Almost a child, her bosom barely showed
  The change beyond her girlhood. All her charms
  Were budding, but half opened; for I saw
  Not only beauty wondrous in itself,
  But possibility of more to be
  In the full process of her blooming days.
  I gazed upon her, and my heart grew soft,
  As a parched pasture with the dew of heaven.
  While thus I gazed, she smiled, and slowly raised
  The long curve of her lashes; and we looked
  Each upon each in wonder, not alarm,--
  Not eye to eye, but soul to soul, we held
  Each other for a moment. All her life
  Seemed centred in the circle of her eyes.
  She stirred no limb; her long-drawn, equal breath
  Swelled out and ebbed away beneath her breast,
  In calm unbroken. Not a sign of fear
  Touched the faint color on her oval cheek,
  Or pinched the arches of her tender mouth.
  She took me for a vision, and she lay
  With her sleep's smile unaltered, as in doubt
  Whether real life had stolen into her dreams,
  Or dreaming stretched into her outer life.
  I was not graceless to a woman's eyes.
  So thought the lily on the Imam's breast;
  And lightly as a summer mist, that lifts
  Before the morning, so she floated up,
  Without a sound or rustle of a robe,
  From her coarse pillow, and before me stood
  With asking eyes. The Imam never moved.
  A stride and blow were all my need, and they
  Were wholly in my power. I took her hand,
  I held a warning finger to my lips,
  And whispered in her small expectant ear,
  "Adeb, the son of Akem!" She replied
  In a low murmur, whose bewildering sound
  Almost lulled wakeful me to sleep, and sealed
  The sleeper's lids in tenfold slumber, "Prince,
  Lord of the Imam's life and of my heart,
  Take all thou seest,--it is thy right, I know,--
  But spare the Imam for thy own soul's sake!"
  Then I arrayed me in a robe of state,
  Shining with gold and jewels; and I bound
  In my long turban gems that might have bought
  The lands 'twixt Babelmandeb and Sahan.
  I girt about me, with a blazing belt,
  A scimitar o'er which the sweating smiths
  In far Damascus hammered for long years,
  Whose hilt and scabbard shot a trembling light
  From diamonds and rubies. And she smiled,
  As piece by piece I put the treasures on,
  To see me look so fair,--in pride she smiled.
  I hung long purses at my side. I scooped,
  From off a table, figs and dates and rice,
  And bound them to my girdle in a sack.
  Then over all I flung a snowy cloak,
  And beckoned to the maiden. So she stole
  Forth like my shadow, past the sleeping wolf
  Who wronged my father, o'er the woolly head
  Of the swart eunuch, down the painted court,
  And by the sentinel who standing slept.
  Strongly against the portal, through my rags,--
  My old, base rags,--and through the maiden's veil,
  I pressed my knife,--upon the wooden hilt
  Was "Adeb, son of Akem," carved by me
  In my long slavehood,--as a passing sign
  To wait the Imam's waking. Shadows cast
  From two high-sailing clouds upon the sand
  Passed not more noiseless than we two, as one,
  Glided beneath the moonlight, till I smelt
  The fragrance of the stables. As I slid
  The wide doors open, with a sudden bound
  Uprose the startled horses; but they stood
  Still as the man who in a foreign land
  Hears his strange language, when my Desert call,
  As low and plaintive as the nested dove's,
  Fell on their listening ears. From stall to stall,
  Feeling the horses with my groping hands,
  I crept in darkness; and at length I came
  Upon two sister mares, whose rounded sides,
  Fine muzzles, and small heads, and pointed ears,
  And foreheads spreading 'twixt their eyelids wide,
  Long slender tails, thin manes, and coats of silk,
  Told me, that, of the hundred steeds there stalled,
  My hand was on the treasures. O'er and o'er
  I felt their long joints, and down their legs
  To the cool hoofs;--no blemish anywhere:
  These I led forth and saddled. Upon one
  I set the lily, gathered now for me,--
  My own, henceforth, forever. So we rode
  Across the grass, beside the stony path,
  Until we gained the highway that is lost,
  Leading from Sana, in the eastern sands:
  When, with a cry that both the Desert-born
  Knew without hint from whip or goading spur,
  We dashed into a gallop. Far behind
  In sparks and smoke the dusty highway rose;
  And ever on the maiden's face I saw,
  When the moon flashed upon it, the strange smile
  It wore on waking. Once I kissed her mouth,
  When she grew weary, and her strength returned.
  All through the night we scoured between the hills:
  The moon went down behind us, and the stars
  Dropped after her; but long before I saw
  A planet blazing straight against our eyes,
  The road had softened, and the shadowy hills
  Had flattened out, and I could hear the hiss
  Of sand spurned backward by the flying mares.--
  Glory to God! I was at home again!
  The sun rose on us; far and near I saw
  The level Desert; sky met sand all round.
  We paused at midday by a palm-crowned well,
  And ate and slumbered. Somewhat, too, was said:
  The words have slipped my memory. That same eve
  We rode sedately through a Hamoum camp,--
  I, Adeb, prince amongst them, and my bride.
  And ever since amongst them I have ridden,
  A head and shoulders taller than the best;
  And ever since my days have been of gold,
  My nights have been of silver.--God is just!

       *       *       *       *       *

ELEUSINIA.[a]

[Footnote a: See Number XXIII., September, 1859.]

THE SAVIOURS OF GREECE.

Life, in its central idea, is an entire and eternal solitude. Yet each individual nature so
repeats--and is itself repeated in--every other, that there is insured the possibility both
of a world-revelation in the soul, and of a self-incarnation in the world; so that every man's
life, like Agrippa's mirror, reflects the universe, and the universe is made the embodiment
of his life,--is made to beat with a human pulse.

We do all, therefore,--Hindu, Egyptian, Greek, or Saxon,--claim kinship both with the earth
and the heavens: with the sense of sorrow we kneel upon the earth, with the sense of hope we
look into the heavens.

The two Presences of the Eleusinia,--the earthly Demeter,[b] the embodiment of human sorrow,
and the heavenly Dionysus,[c] the incarnation of human hope,--these are the two Great Presences
of the Universe; about whom, as separate centres,--the one of measureless wanderings, the other
of triumphant rest,--we marshal, both in the interpretations of Reason and in the constructions
of our Imagination, all that is visible or that is invisible,--whatsoever is palpable in sense
or possible in idea, in the world which is or the world to come. Incarnations of the life within
us, in its two developments of Sorrow and Hope,--they are also the centres through which this
life develops itself in the world: it is through them that all things have their genesis from
the human heart, and through them, therefore, that all things are unveiled to us.

[Footnote b: Demeter is [Greek Gae-mhaetaer], Mother Earth.]

[Footnote c: The same as Iacchus and the Latin Bacchus.]

But these Two Presences have their highest interest and significance as foci of the religious
development of the race: and inasmuch as all growth is ultimately a religious one, it is in
this phase that their organic connections with life are widest and most profound. As such they
appear in the Eleusinia; and in all mythology they furnish the only possible key for the interpretation
of its mystic symbolism, its hieroglyphic records, and its ill-defined traditions.

Accordingly we find that all mythology naturally and inevitably flows about these centres into
two distinct developments, which are indicated,--

1. In Nature; inasmuch as they are first made manifest through symbols which point to the two
great forces, the active and the passive, which are concerned in all natural processes (sol
et terra subjacens soli); and,

2. In the primitive belief among all nations, that men are the offspring of the earth and the
heavens,--and in the worship equally prevalent of the sun, the personal Presence of the heavens,
as Saviour Lord, and of the earth as sorrowing Lady and Mother.

Why the earth, in this primitive symbolism and worship, was represented as the Sorrowing One,
and the sun as Saviour, is evident at a glance. It was the bosom of the earth which was shaken
with storm and rent with earthquake. She was the Mother, and hers was the travail of all birth;
in sorrow she forever gathered to herself her Fate-conquered children; her sorrowful countenance
she veiled in thick mists, and, year after year, shrouded herself in wintry desolation: while
he was the Eternal Father, the Revealer of all things, he drove away the darkness, and in his
presence the mist became an invisible exhalation; and, as out of darkness and death, he called
into birth the flowers and the numberless forests,--even as he himself was every morning born
anew out of darkness,--so he called the children of the earth to a glorious rising in his light.
Everything of the earth was inert, weighing heavily upon the sense and the heart, only waiting
its transfiguration and exaltation through his power, until it should rise into the heavens;
which was the type of his translation to himself of his grief-oppressed children.

Under these symbols our Lord and Lady have been worshipped by an overwhelming majority of the
human race. They swayed the ancient world, from the Indians by the Ganges, and the Tartar tribes,
to the Britons and Laplanders of Northwestern Europe,--having their representatives in every
system of faith,--in the Hindu Isi and Isana, the Egyptian Isis and Osiris, the Assyrian Venus
and Adonis, the Demeter and Dionysus of Greece, the Roman Ceres and Bacchus, and the Disa and
Frey of Scandinavia,--in connection with most, if not all, of whom there existed festivals
corresponding, in respect of their meaning and use, with the Grecian Eleusinia.

Moreover, the various divinities of any one mythology--for example, the Greek--were at first
only representatives of partial attributes or incidental functions of these Two Presences.
Thus, Jove was the power of the heavens, which, of course, centred in the sun; Apollo is admitted
to have been only another name for the sun; Æsculapius represents his healing virtues; Hercules
his saving strength; and Prometheus, who gave fire to men, as Vulcan, the god of fire, was
probably connected with Eastern fire-worship, and so in the end with the worship of the sun.
Some of the goddesses come under the same category,--such as Juno, sister and wife of Jove,
who shared with him his aerial dynasty; as also Diana, who was only the reflection of Apollo,[d]
as the moon of the sun, carrying his power on into the night, and exercising among women the
functions which he exercised among men. The representatives of our Lady, on the other hand,
are such as the ancient Rhea,--Latona, with her dark and starry veil,--Tethys, the world-nurse,--and
the Artemis of the East, or Syrian Mother; to say nothing of Oreads, Dryads, and Nereids, that
without number peopled the mountains, the forests, and the sea.

[Footnote d: This connection of Diana with Apollo has led some to the hasty inference, that
the sun and moon--not the sun and earth--were the primitive centres of mythological symbolism.
But it is plain that the sun and moon, as active forces referable to a single centre, stood
over against the earth as passive.]

The confusion of ancient mythology did not so much regard its subjective elements as its external
development, and even here is easily accounted for by the mingling of tribes and nations, hitherto
isolated in their growth,--but who, as they came together, in their mutual recognition of a
common faith under different names and rites, must inevitably have introduced disorder into
the external symbolism. But even out of this confusion we shall find the whole Pantheon organized
about two central shrines,--those of the Mater Dolorosa and the Dominus Salvator,--which are
represented also in Christendom, though detached from natural symbols, in the connection of
Christianity with the worship of the Virgin.

The Eleusinia, collecting together, as it did, all the prominent elements of mythology, furnishes,
in its dramatic evolution through Demeter and Dionysus, the highest and most complete representation
of ancient faith in both of its developments. In a former paper, we have endeavored to give
this drama its deepest interpretation by pointing to the human heart as the central source
of all its movements. We shall now ask our readers to follow us out into these movements themselves,--that,
as before we saw how the world is centred in each human soul, we may now see how each soul
develops itself in the world; for thither it is that the ever-widening cycles of the Eleusinian
epos will inevitably lead us.

And first as an epos of sorrow: though centring in the earthly Demeter, yet its movement does
not limit itself by the remembrance of her nine days' search; but, in the torch-light procession
of the fifth night, widens indefinitely and mysteriously in the darkness, until it has inclosed
all hearts within the circuit of its tumultuous flight. Thus, by some secret sympathy with
her movements, are gathered together about the central Achtheia all the Matres Dolorosoe,--our
Ladies of Sorrow;--for, like her, they were all wanderers.

They were so by necessity. All unrest involves loss, and thus leads to search. It matters not
if the search be unsuccessful; though the gadfly sting as sharply the next moment as it did
the last, still so must continue her wanderings. Therefore that Jew, whose mythic fate it is
to wait forever upon the earth, the victim of an everlasting sorrow, is also an everlasting
wanderer. All suffering necessitates movement,--and when the suffering is intense, the movement
passes over into flight.

Therefore it is that the epos of suffering requires not merely time for its accomplishment,
but also space. Ulysses, the "much-suffering," is also the "much-wandering."

Thus our Lady in the Eleusinian procession of search represents the restless search of all
her children.

Migrations and colonizations, ancient or modern,--what were they but flights from some phase
of suffering,--name it as we may,--poverty, oppression, or slavery? It was the same suffering
Io who brought civilization to the banks of the Nile.

Thus, from the very beginnings of history or human tradition, out of the severities of Scythian
deserts there has been an endless series of flights,--nomadic invasions of tribes impelled
by no merely barbarian impulse, but by some deep sense of suffering, flying from their Northern
wastes to the happy gardens of the South. In no other way can you account for these movements.
If you attribute them to ferocity, what was it that engendered and nourished that? Call them
the results of a Divine Providence, seeking by a fresher current of life to revive systems
of civilization which through long ages of luxury have come to frailty,--still it was through
this severity of discipline alone that Providence accomplished its end. Besides, these nomads
were fully conscious of their bitter lot; and those who fled not in space fled at least in
their dreams,--waiting for death at last to introduce them to inexhaustible hunting-grounds
in their happy Elysium.

The very mention of Rome suggests the same continually repeated series of antecedent tragedy
and consequent wandering,--pointing backward to the fabled siege of Troy and the flight of
Aeneas,--"profugus" from Asia to Italy,--and forward to the quick-coming footsteps of the Northern
profugi, who were eager, even this side the grave, to enter the Valhalla of their dreams.

It is said that the Phoenician cities sent out colonies from a desire of gain, and because
they were crowded at home. It is said, too, that, in search of gold, thousands upon thousands
went to El Dorado, to California, and Australia; but who does not know that the greater part
of these thousands left their homes for reasons which, if fully exposed, would reveal a tragedy
in view of which gold appears a glittering mockery?

The great movement of the race westward is but an extension of this epic flight. Thus, the
Pilgrim Fathers of New England,--the grandest profugi of all time,--or even the bold adventurers
of Spain, would have been moved only by intense suffering, in some form, to exchange their
homes for a wilderness.

The world is full of these wanderings, under various pretences of gain, adventure, or curiosity,
hiding the real impulse of flight. So with the strong-flowing current in the streets of a great
city; for how else shall we interpret this intricate net-work of human feature and movement,--this
flux of life toward some troubled centre, and then its reflux toward some uncertain and undefined
circumference?

And as Nature is the mirror of human life, so at the source of those vast movements by which
she buries in oblivion her own works and the works of man there is hidden the type of human
suffering, both for the race and the individual. And hence it is, that, over against the eternal
solitude within us, there ever waits without us a second solitude, into which, sooner or later,
we pass with restless flight,--a solitude vast, shadowy, and unfamiliar in its outline, but
inevitable in its reality,--haunting, bewildering, overshadowing us!

       *       *       *       *       *

"Who is it that shall interpret this intricate evolution of human footsteps, in its meaning
of sorrow?--who is it that shall give us rest?" Such is the half-conscious prayer of all these
fugitives,--of our Lady and all her children. This it is which gives meaning to the torch-light
procession on the fifth night of the Festival; but to-morrow it shall find an answer in the
Saviour Dionysus, who shall change the flight of search into the pomp of triumph.

       *       *       *       *       *

But let us pause a moment. It is Palm Sunday! We are not, indeed, in Syria, the land of palms.
Yet, even here,--lost in some far-reaching avenue of pines, where one could hardly walk upon
a summer Sunday without such sense of joy as would move him to tears,--even here all the movements
of the earth and the heavens hint of most jubilant triumph. Thus, the green grass rises above
the dead grass at our feet; the leaf-buds new-born upon the tree, like lotos-buds springing
up from Ethiopian marble, give token of resurrection; the trees themselves tower heavenward;
and in victorious ascension the clouds unite in the vast procession, dissolving in exhalation
at the "gates of the sun"; while from unnumbered choirs arise songs of exultant victory from
the hearts of men to the throne of God!

But whither, in divine remembrance,--whither is it that upon this Sunday of all Sundays the
thoughts of Christendom point? Back through eighteen hundred years to the triumphant entry
of Jesus into Jerusalem, followed by the children crying, "Hosanna in the highest heavens!"
Of this it is that the processions of Nature, in the resurrections of birth and the aërial
ascension of clouds,--of this that the upward processions of our thoughts are commemorative!

Thus was the sixth day of the Eleusinia,--when the ivy-crowned Dionysus was borne in triumph
through the mystic entrance of Eleusis, and from the Eleusinian plains, as from our choirs
to-day, ascended the jubilant Hosannas of the countless multitude;--this was the Palm Sunday
of Greece.

Close upon the chariot-wheels of the Saviour Dionysus followed, in the faith of Greece, Aesculapius
and Hercules: the former the Divine Physician, whose very name was healing, and who had power
over death, as the child of the Sun; and the latter, who by his saving strength delivered the
earth from its Augean impurities, and, arrayed in celestial panoply, subdued the monsters of
the earth, and at last, descending to Hades, slew the three-headed Cerberus and took away from
men much of the fear of death. Such was the train of the Eleusinian Dionysus. If Demeter was
the wanderer, he was the conqueror and centre of all triumph.

And this reminds us of his Indian conquest. What did it mean? Admit that it may have been only
the fabulous march in triumph of some forgotten king of mortal birth to the farthest limits
of the East. Still the fact of its association with Dionysus stands as evidence of the connection
of human faith with human victory. Let it be that Dionysus himself was only the apotheosis
of victorious humanity. In strict logic this is more than probable. Yet why apotheosize conquerors
at all? Why exalt all heroes to the rank of gods?

The reason is, that men are unwilling to draw a limited meaning from any human act. How could
they, then, connecting, as they did, all victory with hope,--how could they fall short of the
most exalted hope, of the most excellent victory; especially in instances like the one now
under our notice, where the material circumstances of the conquest as well as of the conqueror's
life have passed out of remembrance; when for generations men have dwelt upon the dim tradition
in their thoughts, and it has had time to grow into its fullest significance,--even finding
an elaborate expression in sacred writings, in symbolic ritual, and monumental entablature?
Osiris, who subjected men to his reign of peace, was also held to be the Preserver of their
souls. Even Caesar, had he lived two thousand years before, might have been worshipped as Saviour.
All extended power, measured by duration in time or vast areas of space, becomes an incarnate
Presence in the world, which awes to the dust all who resist it, and exalts with its own glory
all who trust in it. Achtheia mourns all failures; and here it is that the human touches the
earth. But they who conquer, these are our Saviours; they shall follow in the train of Dionysus;
they shall lift us to the heavens, and sanctify in our remembrance the Sunday of Palms!

But Dionysus not only looks back with triumphant remembrance to ancient conquest, but has his
victories in the present, also, and in the great Hereafter. For triumph was connected with
all Dionysiac symbols, hints of which are preserved to us in representations found upon ancient
vases: such, for instance, as the figure of Victory surmounting the heads of the ivy-crowned
Bacchantes in their mystic orgies; or the winged serpents which bear the chariot of the victor-god,--as
if in this connection even the reptiles, whose very name (serpentes) is a synonyme for what
creeps, are to be made the ministrants of his conquering flight. The tombs of the ancients
from Egypt to Etruria are full of these symbols. Many of them have become dim as to their meaning
by oblivious time; but enough is evident to indicate the prominence of hope in ancient faith.
This appears in the very multiplicity of Dionysiac symbols as compared with any other class.
Thus, out of sixty-six vases at Polignano, all but one or two were found to be Dionysiac in
their symbolism. And this instance stands for many others. The character of the scenes represented
indicates the same prominence of hope, sometimes as connected with the relations of life,--as,
for example, the representation, found upon a sepulchral cone, of a husband and wife uniting
with each other in prayer to the Sun. Frequent inscriptions--such as those in which the deceased
is carefully committed to Osiris, the Egyptian Dionysus--point in the same direction; as also
the genii who presided over the embalmed dead, a belief in whose existence surely indicated
a hopeful trust in some divine care which would not leave them even in the grave. Statues of
Osiris are found among the ruins of palaces and temples; but it was in the monuments associated
with death that they dwelt most upon his name and expressed their faith in most frequent incarnation
and inscription.

The epic movement of Eleusinian triumph was in its range as unlimited as the movement of sorrow.
Each found expression in sculptured monument,--the one hinting of flight into darkness, and
the other of resurrection into light; each in its cycle inclosed the world; each widened into
the invisible; as the wail of Achtheia reached the heart of Hades, so the paean of Dionysus
was lost in the heavens.

       *       *       *       *       *

But in what manner did this Dionysus make his avatar in the world? For he must needs have first
touched the earth as human child, ere he could be worshipped as Divine Saviour. Latona must
leave the heavens and come to Delos ere she can give birth to Apollo; for, in order to slay
the serpent, the child must himself be earth-born,--indeed, according to one representation,
he slew the Python out of his mother's arms. Neither the serpent of Genesis nor the dragon
of Revelation can be conquered save by the seed of the woman. From this necessity of his earthly
birth, the connection of the Saviour-Child with the Mater Dolorosa becomes universal,--finding
its counterpart in the Assyrian Venus with babe in arm, in Isis suckling the child Horus, and
even in the Scandinavian Disa at Upsal accompanied by an infant. It is from swaddling-clothes,
as the nursling of our Lady, and out of the sorrowful discipline of earth, that the child grows
to be the Saviour, both for our Lady and for all her children.

Hence, according to the tradition, Dionysus was born of Semele of the royal house at Thebes;
and Jove was his father. A little before his time of birth,--so the story goes,--Jove visited
Semele, at her own rash request, in all the majesty of his presence, with thunderings and lightnings,
so that the bower of the virgin mother was laid in ruins, and she herself, unable to stand
before the revealed god, was consumed as by fire. But Jove out of her ashes perfected the birth
of his son; whence he was called the Child of Fire, ([Greek: puripais],)--which epithet, as
well as this part of the fable, probably points to his connection with the Oriental symbolism
of fire in the worship of the Sun.

And it is worth while, in connection with this, to notice the gradations by which in the ancient
mind everything ascended from the gross material to a refined spirituality. As in Nature there
was forever going on a subtilizing process, so that

  "from the root
  Springs lighter the green stalk, from thence the leaves
  More aëry, last the bright consummate flower
  Spirits odorous breathes,"--

and as, in their philosophy, from the earth, as the principle of Nature, they ascended through
the more subtile elements of water, air, and fire, to a spiritual conception of the universe;
so, as regards their faith, its highest incarnation was through the symbolism of fire, as representative
of that central Power under whose influence all things arose through endless grades of exaltation
to Himself,--so that the earthly rose into the heavenly, and all that was human became divine.

The enthusiasm of victory and exaltation in the worship of Dionysus tended of course to connect
with him whatsoever was joyous and jubilant in life. He was the god of all joy. Hence the fable
which makes him the author and giver of wine to men. Wherever he goes, he is surrounded by
the clustering vine and ivy, hinting of his summer glory and of his kingly crown. Thus, the
line of his conquests leads through the richest fields of Southern Asia,--through the incense-breathing
Arabia, across the Euphrates and the Tigris, and through the flowery vales of Cashmere to the
Indian garden of the world: and as from sea to sea he establishes his reign by bloodless victories,
he is attended by Fauns and Satyrs and the jovial Pan; wine and honey are his gifts; and all
the earth is glad in his gracious presence. Hence he was ever associated with Oriental luxuriance,
and was worshipped even among the Greeks with a large infusion of Oriental extravagance, though
tempered by the more subdued mood of the West.

But that depth of Grecian genius, which made it possible for Greece alone of all ancient nations
to develop tragedy to anything like perfection, insured also even in the most impassioned life
the most profound solemnity. Into the praises of Apollo, joyous as they were,--where, to the
exultant anthem was joined the evolution of the dance beneath the vaulted sky, as if in his
very presence,--for the sun was his shechinah,--there enters an element of solemnity, which,
in certain connections, is almost overwhelming: as, for instance, in the first book of the
"Iliad,"--where, after the pestilence which has sent up an endless series of funeral pyres,--after
the strife of heroes and the return of Chryseïs to her father, the priest of the angry Apollo,--after
the feast and the libation from the wine-crowned cups, there follow the apotropoea, and the
Grecian youths unite in the song and the dance, which last, both the joyous paean and the tread
of exultant feet, until the setting sun. I know of nothing which to an equal degree suggests
this element of solemnity, that is almost awe-inspiring from its depth, short of the jubilant
procession of saints, in the Apocalypse, with palms in their hands.

This element is also evident in the worship of Dionysus,--so that the inspiration of joy must
not be taken for the frenzy of intoxication, though the symbol of the vine has often led to
just this misapprehension. Besides, Dionysus must not be too closely identified with the Bacchanalian
orgies, which were only a perversion of rites which retained their original purity in the Eleusinia:
and this latter institution, it must be remembered, was from the first under the control of
the state,--and that state at the time the most refined on the face of the earth.

Surely, it is not more difficult to give a pure and spiritual significance to a vintage-festival
or to the symbolic wine-cup of Dionysus, than in the rhapsodies of a Persian or Hindu poet
to symbolize the attraction between the Divine Goodness and the human soul by the loves of
Laili and Majnum, or of Crishna and Radha,--to say nothing of the exalted symbolism attached
to the love of Solomon for his Egyptian princess, and sanctioned by the most delicate taste.

Indeed, is it not true that whatsoever is most sensuous in connection with human joy, and at
the same time pure, is the very flower of life, and therefore the most consummate revelation
of holiness? Nothing in Nature is so intensely solemn as her summer, in its infinite fulness
of growth and the unmeasured altitude of its heavens. And within the range of human associations
which shall we select as revealing the most profound solemnity? Surely not the sight of the
funeral train, nor of the urn crowned with cypress,--of nothing which is associated with death
or weakness in any shape;--but the sight of gayest festivals, or the paraphernalia of palace-halls,--the
vision of some youthful maiden of transcendent beauty crowned with an orange-wreath, within
hearing of marriage-bells and the whisperings of holy love,--or the aspirations of the dance
and the endless breathings of triumphant music. These are they which come up most prominently
in remembrance,--even as the whole race, in its remembrances, instinctively looks back to the
Orient,--to some Homeric island of the morning, where are the palaces, the choral dances, and
the risings of the sun.[e] And as Memory has the power to purify the past of all material grossness,
Faith has the same power as regards the present Hence, the closest connection of religious
faith with the most joyous festivals, with a finely moulded Venus or Apollo, with an Ephesian
temple or a splendid cathedral, or the sweetest symphonies of music, does not mar, but reveals
its natural beauty and strength.

[Footnote e: Odyssey, xii., 4.]

But most certainly the Greeks gave a profound spiritual meaning to the Eleusinia, as also to
the mystic connection of Demeter with Dionysus. She gave them bread: but they never forgot
that she gave them the bread of life. "She gave us," says the ancient Isocrates, "two gifts
that are the most excellent: fruits, that we might not live like beasts; and that initiation,
those who have part in which have sweeter hope,--both as regards the close of life, and for
all eternity." So Dionysus gave them wine, not only to lighten the cares of life, but as a
token, moreover, of efficient deliverance from the fear of death, and of the higher joy which
he would give them in some happier world. And thus it is, that, from the earliest times and
in all the world, bread and wine have been symbols of sacramental significance.

Human life so elevates all things with its exaltation and clothes them with its glory, that
nothing vain, nothing trifling, can be found within its range. He who opposes himself to a
single fact thus of necessity opposes himself to the whole onward and upward current, and must
fall. We have heard of Thor, who with his magic mallet and his two celestial comrades went
to Jötunheim in quest of adventures: and we remember the goblet which he could not exhaust
because of its mysterious connection with the inexhaustible Sea; the race with Hugi, which
in the end proved to be a race with Thought; and the wrestle with the old nurse Elli, who was
no other than Time herself, and therefore irresistible. So do we all get us mallets ingeniously
forged by the dark elves;--we try a race with human thought, and look vainly to come out ahead;
we laugh at things because they are old, but with which we struggle to no purpose; and the
cup which we confidently put to our lips has no bottom;--in fact, the great world of Jötunheim
has grown for so long a time and so widely that it is quite too much for us,--and its tall
people, though we come down upon them, like Thor and his companions, from celestial heights,
are too stout for our mallet.

Nothing human is so insignificant, but that, if you will give it time and room, it will become
irresistible. The plays of men become their dramas; their holidays change to holy days. The
representations, through which, under various names, they have repeated to themselves the glory
and the tragedy of their life,--old festivals once celebrated in Egypt far back beyond the
dimmest myths of human remembrance,--the mystic drama of the Eleusinia, which we have been
considering in its overwhelming sorrow developed in hurried flight, and its lofty hope through
triumphal pomp and the significant symbolism of resurrection,--the epos and the epic rhapsodies,--the
circus and the amphitheatre,--and even the impetuous song and dance of painted savages,--all
these, which at first we may pass by with a glance, have for our deeper search a meaning which
we can never wholly exhaust. Let it be that they have grown from feeble beginnings, they have
grown to gigantic dimensions; and not their infantile proportions, but their fullest growth
is to be taken as the measure of their strength,--if, indeed, it be not wholly immeasurable.

Upon some day, seemingly by chance, but really having its antecedent in the remotest antiquity,
a company of men participate in some simple act,--of sacrifice, it may be, or of amusement.
Now that act will be reiterated.

  "Quod semel dictum est stabilisque rerum
  Terminus servet."

The subtile law of repetition, as regards the human will, is as sure in Determination as it
is in Consciousness. Habit is as inevitable as Memory; and as nothing can be forgotten, but,
when once known, is known forever,--so nothing is done but will be done again. Lethe and Annihilation
are only myths upon the earth, which men, though suspicious of their eternal falsehood, name
to themselves in moments of despair and fearful apprehension. The poppy has only a fabled virtue;
but, like Persephone, we have all tasted of the pomegranate, and must ever to Hades and back
again; for while death and oblivion only seem to be, remembrances and resurrections there must
be, and without end. Therefore this before-mentioned act of sacrifice or amusement will be
reiterated at given intervals; about it, as a centre, will be gathered all the associations
of intense interest in human life; and the names connected with its origin--once human names
upon the earth--will pass upon the stars, so that the nomina shall have changed to numina,
and be taken upon the lips with religious awe. So it was with these old festivals,--so with
all the representations of human life in stone or upon the canvas, in the fairy-tale, the romance,
and the poem; at every successive repetition, at every fresh resurrection, is evolved by human
faith and sympathy a deeper significance, until they become the centres of national thought
and feeling, and men believe in them as in revelations from heaven; and even the oracles themselves,
in respect of their inherent meaning, as also of their origin and authority, rise by the same
ascending series of repeated birth,--like that at Delphi, which, at first attributed to the
Earth, then to Themis, daughter of Earth and Heaven, was at last connected with the Sun and
constituted one of the richest gems in Apollo's diadem of light.

In the end we shall find that the whole world organizes about its centre of Faith. Thus, under
three different religious systems, Jerusalem, Delphi, and Mecca were held to be each in its
turn the omphalos or navel of the world. It follows inevitably that the main movement of the
world must always be joyous and hopeful. By reason of this joy it is that every religious system
has its feast; and the sixth day--the day of Iacchus--is the great day of the festival. The
inscription which rises above every other is "To the Saviour Gods."

We must look at history as a succession of triumphs from the beginning; and each trophy that
is erected outdoes in its magnificence all that were ever erected before it. Nothing has suffered
defeat, except as it has run counter to the main movement of conquest. No system of faith,
therefore, can by any possibility pass away. Involved it may be in some fuller system; its
material bases may be modified; its central source become more central in the human heart,
and so stronger in the world and more immediate in its connection with the eternal; but the
life itself of the system must live forever and grow forever.

Still it is true that in the widest growth there is the largest liability to weakness. "Thus
it is," says Fouqué, "with poor, though richly endowed man. All lies within his power so long
as action is at rest within him; nothing is in his power the moment action has displayed itself,
even by the lifting-up of a finger on the immeasurable world." In the very extent of the empire
of an Alexander, a Cæsar, or a Tamerlane, rests the possibility of its rapid dissolution. At
the giddiest altitude of triumph it is that the brain grows dizziest and there is revealed
the deepest chasm of possible defeat; and the conqueror,

  "Having his ear full of his airy fame,"

is just then most likely to fall like Herod from his aërial pomp to the very dust. This consciousness,
revealing at the highest moment of joy its utmost frailty, led the ancients to suspect the
presence of some Ate or Nemesis in all human triumphs. We all remember the king who threw his
signet-ring into the sea, that he might in his too happy fortunes avert this suspected presence;
we remember, too, the apprehension of the Chorus in the "Seven against Thebes," looking forward
from the noontide prosperity of the Theban king to some coming catastrophe.

But it is not without us that this Nemesis waits; she is but another name for the fearful possibility
which lurks in every human will, of treachery to itself. And as solemnity rises to its acme
in the most sensuous manifestation of the glory of life,--so in all that most fascinates and
bewilders, at the very crisis of victorious exaltation, at the very height of joyous sensibility,
does this mysterious power of temptation reveal her subtlest treachery; and sometimes in a
single moment does she change the golden-filleted Horæ, that are our ministers, into frightful
furies, which drive us back again from triumph into flight.

What was it, then, which saved the Eleusinia from this defeat,--which kept the movement of
the Dionysiac procession from the ruin inevitably consequent upon all intemperate joy? It was
the presence of our Lady, the sorrowing Achtheia, who was the inseparable companion of the
joyous conqueror,--who subdued the joy of victory, and preserved the strength and holy purity
of the great Festival. Demeter was thus necessary to Dionysus,--as Dionysus to Demeter; and
if in remembrance of him the sepulchral walls were covered with scenes associated with festivity,--in
remembrance of her there must needs be a skeleton at every feast.

How inseparably connected in human thought is sorrow with all permanent hope is indicated in
the penances which men have imposed upon themselves, from the earliest Gymnosophists of India,
and the Stylitæ of Syria, down to the monastic orders of the Romish Church in later times.
This is the meaning of the old Indian fable which made two of the Rishis or penitents to have
risen by the discipline of sorrow from some low caste,--it may be, from very Pariahs,--first
to the rank of Brahmins, and at last to the stars. The first initiation in which we veil our
eyes, losing all, is essential to our fresher birth, by which in the second initiation all
things are unveiled to us as our inheritance: indeed, it is only through that which veils that
anything is ever revealed or possessed.

Through the same gate we pass both to glory and to tragic suffering, each of which heightens
and measures the other; and it is only so that we can understand the function of sorrow in
the Providence of God, or interpret the sudden calamities which sometimes overwhelm human hopes
at their highest aspiration,--which from the most serene and cloudless sky evoke storms which
leave not even a wreck from their vast ruin.

Nor merely is sorrow efficient in those who hope, but in even a higher sense does it attach
to the character of Saviour. Apollo is, therefore, fabled to have been an exile from heaven
and a servant of Admetus; indeed, Danaüs, in "The Suppliants" of Æschylus, appeals to Apollo
for protection on this very plea, addressing him as "the Holy One, and an exiled God from heaven."
Thus Hercules was compelled to serve Eurystheus; and his twelve labors were typed in the twelve
signs of the zodiac. Æsculapius and Prometheus both suffered excruciating tortures and death
for the good of men. And Dionysus--himself the centre of all joy--was persecuted by the Queen
of Heaven and compelled to wander in the world. Thus he wandered through Egypt, finding no
abiding-place, and finally, as the story runs, came to the Phrygian Cybele, that he might know
in their deepest meaning--even by the initiation of sorrow--the mysteries of the Great Mother.
And, very significantly, it is from this same initiation that His wanderings have their end
and his world-wide conquest its beginning; as if only thus could be realized the possibility
both of triumph for himself and of hope for his followers. For these wanderers can find rest
only in a suffering Saviour, by the vision of whose deeper Passion they lose their sense of
grief,--as Io on Caucasus in sight of the transfixed Prometheus, and the Madonna at the Cross.

It is worthy of more attention than we can give it here, yet we cannot pass over in silence
the fact, so important in this relation, that Grecian Tragedy, in all its wonderful development
under the three great masters, was directly associated, and in its ruder beginnings completely
identified, with the worship of Dionysus. And this confirms our previous hint, that the same
element which made tragedy possible for Greece must also be sought for in the development of
its faith. There are those who decry Grecian faith,--at the same time that they laud the Grecian
drama to the skies: but to the Greeks themselves, who certainly knew more than we do as regards
either, the drama was only an outgrowth of their faith, and derived thence its highest significance.
Thus the mystic symbolism of the dramatic Choruses, taken out of its religious connections,
becomes an insoluble enigma; and naturally enough; for its first use was in religious worship,--though
afterwards it became associated with traditionary and historic events. Besides, it was supposed
that the tragedians wrote under a divine inspiration; and the subjects and representations
which they embodied were for the most part susceptible of a deep spiritual interpretation.
Indeed, upon a careful examination, we shall find that very many of the dramas directly suggest
the two Eleusinian movements, representing first the flight of suppliants--as of the Heraclidae,
the daughters of Danaüs, and of Oedipus and Antigone--from persecution to the shrine of some
Saviour Deity,--and finally a deliverance effected through sacrifice or divine interposition.
Examples of this are so numerous that we have no space for a minute consideration.

But certainly it is plain that the Eleusinia, as being more central, more purely spiritual,
must in the thought of Greece have risen high above the drama. The very dress in which the
mystae were initiated was preserved as most sacred or deposited in the temple. Or if we insist
upon measuring their appreciation of the Festival by the more palpable standard of numbers,--the
temple at Eleusis, by the account of Strabo, was capable of holding even in its mystic cell
more persons than the theatre. To be sure, the celebration was only once in five years,--but
it was all the more sacred from this very infrequency. Nothing in all Greece--and that is saying
very much--could compare with it in its depth of divine mystery. If anything could, it would
have been the drama; but no wailings were ever heard from beneath the masks of the stage like
the wailings of Achtheia,--no jubilant song of the Chorus ever rose like the paean of Dionysiac
triumph.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus was the name of Dionysus connected with the palace and the temple, with the sepulchral
court of death and the dramatic representations of life,--and everywhere associated with our Lady.

Sometimes, indeed, she seems to overshadow and hide him from our vision. Thus was it when the
Eumenides in their final triumph swept the stage, and victory seemed all in the hands of invisible
Powers, with no human participant: even as throughout the Homeric epos there runs an undercurrent
of unutterable sadness; because, while to the Gods there ever remains a sure seat upon Olympus,
unshaken by the winds, untouched by rain or snow, crowned with a cloudless radiance,--yet upon
man come vanity, sorrow, and strife; like the leaves of the forest he flourisheth, and then
passeth away to the "weak heads of the dead," ([Greek: nekuon amenaena karaena],) conquered
by purple Death and strong Fate.

To the eye of sense, and in the circumscribed movements of this world, the desolation seems
complete and the defeat final. But the snows of winter are necessary to the blossoms of spring,--the
waste of death to the resurrection of life; and from the vastest of all desolations does our
Lady lead her children in the loftiest of all flights,--even from all sorrow and solitude,--from
the wastes of earth and the desolation of Æons, to ineffable joy in her Saviour Lord.

       *       *       *       *       *

VICTOR AND JACQUELINE.

I.

Jacqueline Gabrie and Elsie Méril could not occupy one room, and remain, either of them, indifferent
to so much as might be manifested of the other's inmost life. They could not emigrate together,
peasants from Domrémy,--Jacqueline so strong, Elsie so fair,--could not labor in the same harvest-fields,
children of old neighbors, without each being concerned in the welfare and affected by the
circumstances of the other.

It was near ten o'clock, one evening, when Elsie Méril ran up the common stairway, and entered
the room in the fourth story where she and Jacqueline lodged.

Victor Le Roy, student from Picardy, occupied the room next theirs, and was startled from his
slumber by the voices of the girls. Elsie was fresh from the theatre, from the first play she
had ever witnessed; she came home excited and delighted, ready to repeat and recite, as long
as Jacqueline would listen.

And here was Jacqueline.

Early in the evening Elsie had sought her friend with a good deal of anxiety. A fellow-lodger
and field-laborer had invited her to see the play,--and Jacqueline was far down the street,
nursing old Antonine Duprè. To seek her, thus occupied, on such an errand, Elsie had the good
taste, and the selfishness, to refrain from doing.

Therefore, after a little deliberation, she had gone to the theatre, and there forgot her hard
day-labor in the wonders of the stage,--forgot Jacqueline, and Antonine, and every care and
duty. It was hard for her, when all was ended, to come back to compunction and explanation,
yet to this she had come back.

Neither of the girls was thinking of the student, their neighbor; but he was not only wakened
by their voices, he amused himself by comparing them and their utterances with his preconceived
notions of the girls. They might not have recognized him in the street, though they had often
passed him on the stairs; but he certainly could have distinguished the pretty face of Elsie,
or the strange face of Jacqueline, wherever he might meet them.

Elsie ran on with her story, not careful to inquire into the mood of Jacqueline,--suspicious
of that mood, no doubt,--but at last, made breathless by her haste and agitation, she paused,
looked anxiously at Jacqueline, and finally said,--

"You think I ought not to have gone?"

"Oh, no,--it gave you pleasure."

A pause followed. It was broken at length by Elsie, exclaiming, in a voice changed from its
former speaking,--

"Jacqueline Gabrie, you are homesick! horribly homesick, Jacqueline!"

"You do not ask for Antonine: yet you know I went to spend the day with her," said Jacqueline,
very gravely.

"How is Antonine Duprè?" asked Elsie.

"She is dead. I have told you a good many times that she must die. Now, she is dead."

"Dead?" repeated Elsie.

"You care as much as if a candle had gone out," said Jacqueline.

"She was as much to me as I to her," was the quick answer. "She never liked me. She did not
like my mother before me. When you told her my name, the day we saw her first, I knew what
she thought. So let that go. If I could have done her good, though, I would, Jacqueline."

"She has everything she needs,--a great deal more than we have. She is very happy, Elsie."

"Am not I? Are not you, in spite of your dreadful look? Your look is more terrible than the
lady's in the play, just before she killed herself. Is that because Antonine is so well off?"

"I wish that I could be where she is," sighed Jacqueline.

"You? You are tired, Jacqueline. You look ill. You will not be fit for to-morrow. Come to bed.
It is late."

As Jacqueline made no reply to this suggestion, Elsie began to reflect upon her words, and
to consider wherefore and to whom she had spoken. Not quite satisfied with herself could she
have been, for at length she said in quite another manner,--

"You always said, till now, you wished that you might live a hundred years. But it was not
because you were afraid to die, you said so, Jacqueline."

"I don't know," was the answer,--sadly spoken, "Don't remind me of things I have said. I seem
to have lost myself."

The voice and the words were effectual, if they were intended as an appeal to Elsie. Fain would
she now exclude the stage and the play from her thoughts,--fain think and feel with Jacqueline,
as it had long been her habit to do.

Jacqueline, however, was not eager to speak. And Elsie must draw yet nearer to her, and make
her nearness felt, ere she could hope to receive the thought of her friend. By-and-by these
words were uttered, solemn, slow, and dirge-like:--

"Antonine died just after sundown. I was alone with her. She did not think that she would die
so soon. I did not. In the morning, John Leclerc came in to inquire how she spent the night.
He prayed with her. And a hymn,--he read a hymn that she seemed to know, for all day she was
humming it over. I can say some of the lines."

"Say them, Jacqueline," said the softened voice of Elsie.

Slowly, and as one recalls that of which he is uncertain, Jacqueline repeated what I copy more
entire:--

  "In the midst of life, behold,
  Death hath girt us round!
  Whom for help, then, shall we pray?
  Where shall grace be found?
  In thee, O Lord, alone!
  We rue the evil we have done,
  That thy wrath on us hath drawn.
  Holy Lord and God!
  Strong and holy God!
  Merciful and holy Saviour!
  Eternal God!
  Sink us not beneath
  Bitter pains of endless death!
  Kyrie, eleison!"

"Then he went away," she continued. "But he did not think it was the last time he should speak
to Antonine. In the afternoon I thought I saw a change, and I wanted to go for somebody. But
she said, 'Stay with me. I want nothing.' So I sat by her bed. At last she said, 'Come, Lord
Jesus! come quickly!' and she started up in her bed, as if she saw him coming. And as if he
were coming nearer, she smiled. That was the last,--without a struggle, or as much as a groan."

"No priest there?" asked Elsie.

"No. When I spoke to her about it, she said her priest was Jesus Christ the Righteous,--and
there was no other,--the High-Priest. She gave me her Bible. See how it has been used! 'Search
the Scriptures,' she said. She told me I was able to learn the truth. 'I loved your mother,'
she said; 'that is the reason I am so anxious you should know. It is by my spirit, said the
Lord. Ask for that spirit,' she said. 'He is more willing to give than earthly parents are
to give good gifts to their children.' She said these things, Elsie. If they are true, they
must be better worth believing than all the riches of the world are worth the having."

The interest manifested by the student in this conversation had been on the increase since
Jacqueline began to speak of Antonine Duprè. It was not, at this point of the conversation, waning.

"Your mother would not have agreed with Antonine," said Elsie, as if there were weight in the
argument;--for such a girl as Jacqueline could not speak earnestly in the hearing of a girl
like Elsie without result, and the result was at this time resistance.

"She believed what she was taught in Domrémy," answered Jacqueline, "She believed in Absolution,
Extreme Unction, in the need of another priest than Jesus Christ,--a representative they call
it." She spoke slowly, as if interrogating each point of her speech.

"I believe as they believed before us," answered Elsie, coldly.

"We have learned many things since we came to Meaux," answered Jacqueline, with a patient gentleness,
that indicated the perplexity and doubt with which the generous spirit was departing from the
old dominion. She was indeed departing, with that reverence for the past which is not incompatible
with the highest hope for the future. "Our Joan came from Domrémy, where she must crown the
king," she continued. "We have much to learn."

"She lost her life," said Elsie, with vehemence.

"Yes, she did lose her life," Jacqueline quietly acquiesced.

"If she had known what must happen, would she have come?"

"Yes, she would have come."

"How late it is!" said Elsie, as if in sleep were certain rest from these vexatious thoughts.

Victor Le Roy was by this time lost in his own reflections. These girls had supplied an all-sufficient
theme; whether they slept or wakened was no affair of his. He had somewhat to argue for himself
about extreme unction, priestly intervention, confession, absolution,--something to say to
himself about Leclerc, and the departed Antonine.

Late into the night he sat thinking of the marvel of Domrémy and of Antonine Duprè, of Picardy
and of Meaux, of priests and of the High-Priest. Brave and aspiring, Victor Le Roy could not
think of these things, involved in the names of things above specified, as more calculating,
prudent spirits might have done. It was his business, as a student, to ascertain what powers
were working in the world. All true characters, of past time or present, must be weighed and
measured by him. Result was what he aimed at.

Jacqueline's words had not given him new thoughts, but unawares they did summon him to his
appointed labor. He looked to find the truth. He must stand to do his work. He must haste to
make his choice. Enthusiastic, chivalrous, and strong, he was seeking the divine right, night
and day,--and to ascertain that, as it seemed, he had come from Picardy to Meaux.

Elsie Méril went to bed, as she had invited Jacqueline to do; to sleep, to dream, she went,--and
to smile, in her dreaming, on the world that smiled on her.

Jacqueline sat by the window; leaned from the window, and prayed; her own prayer she prayed,
as Antonine had said she must, if she would discover what she needed, and obtain an answer.

She thought of the dead,--her own. She pondered on the future. She recalled some lines of the
hymn Antonine had repeated, and she wished--oh, how she wished!--that, while the woman lived,
and could reason and speak, she had told her about the letter she had received from the priest
of Domrémy. Many a time it had been on her lips to tell, but she failed in courage to bring
her poor affairs into that chamber and disturb that dying hour. Now she wished that she had
done it. Now she felt that speech had been the merest act of justice to herself.

But there was Leclerc, the wool-comber, and his mother; she might rely on them for the instruction
she needed.

Old Antonine's faith had made a deep impression on the strong-hearted and deep-thinking girl;
as also had the prayers of John Leclerc,--especially that last prayer offered for Antonine.
It seemed to authenticate, by its strong, unfaltering utterance, the poor old woman's evidence.
"Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, to-day, and forever," were strong words that seemed about
to take possession of the heart of Jacqueline.

Therefore, while Elsie slept, she prayed,--looking farther than the city-streets, and darkness,--looking
farther than the shining stars. What she sought, poor girl, stood in her silent chamber, stood
in her waiting heart. But she knew Him not, and her ear was heavy; she did not hear the voice,
that she should answer Him, "Rabboni!"

II.

A fortnight from this night, after the harvesters had left the fields of M. Flaval, Jacqueline
was lingering in the twilight.

The instant the day's work was done, the laborers set out for Meaux, Their haste suggested
some unusual cause.

John Leclerc, wool-comber, had received that day his sentence. Report of the sentence had spread
among the reapers in the field and all along the vineyards of the hill-sides. Not a little
stir was occasioned by this sentence: three days of whipping through the public streets, to
conclude with branding on the forehead. For this Leclerc, it seemed, had profanely and audaciously
declared that a man might in his own behalf deal with the invisible God, by the mediation of
Christ, the sole Mediator between God and man. Viewed in the light of his offence, his punishment
certainly was of the mildest. Tidings of his sentence were received with various emotion: by
some as though they were maddened with new wine; others wept openly; many more were pained
at heart; some brutally rejoiced; some were incredulous.

But now they were all on their way to Meaux; the fields were quite deserted. Urged by one desire,
to ascertain the facts of the trial, and the time when the sentence would be executed, the
laborers were returning to the town.

Without demonstration of any emotion, Jacqueline Gabrie, quiet, silent, walked along the river-bank,
until she came to the clump of chestnut-trees, whose shadow fell across the stream. Many a
time, through the hot, dreadful day, her eyes turned wistfully to this place. In the morning
Elsie Méril had promised Jacqueline that at twilight they would read together here the leaves
the poor old mother of Leclerc gave Jacqueline last night: when they had read them, they would
walk home by starlight together. But now the time had come, and Jacqueline was alone. Elsie
had returned to town with other young harvesters.

"Very well," said Jacqueline, when Elsie told her she must go. It was not, indeed, inexplicable
that she should prefer the many voices to the one,--excitement and company, rather than quiet,
dangerous thinking.

But, thus left alone, the face of Jacqueline expressed both sorrow and indignation. She would
exact nothing of Elsie; but latterly how often had she expected of her companion more than
she gave or could give!

Of course the young girl was equal to others in pity and surprise; but there were people in
the world beside the wool-comber and his mother. Nothing of vast import was suggested by his
sentence to her mind. She did not see that spiritual freedom was threatened with destruction.
If she heard the danger questioned, she could not apprehend it. Though she had listened to
the preaching of Leclerc and had been moved by it, her sense of truth and of justice was not
so acute as to lead her willingly to incur a risk in the maintaining of the same.

She would not look into Antonine's Bible, which Jacqueline had read so much during the last
fortnight. She was not the girl to torment herself about her soul, when the Church would save
it for her by mere compliance with a few easy regulations.

More and more was Elsie disappointing Jacqueline. Day by day these girls were developing in
ways which bade fair to separate them in the end. When now they had most need of each other,
their estrangement was becoming more apparent and decided. The peasant-dress of Elsie would
not content her always, Jacqueline said sadly to herself.

Jacqueline's tracts, indeed, promised poorly as entertainment for an hour of rest;--rest gained
by hours of toil. The confusion of tongues and the excitement of the city pleased Elsie better.
So she went along the road to Meaux, and was not talking, neither thinking, all the way, of
the wrongs of John Leclerc, and the sorrows of his mother,--neither meditating constantly,
and with deep-seated purpose, "I will not let thee go, except thou bless me!"--neither on this
problem, agitated then in so many earnest minds, "What shall a man give in exchange for his soul?"

Thus Jacqueline sat alone and thought that she would read by herself the tracts Leclerc had
found it good to study. But unopened she held the little printed scroll, while she watched
the home-returning birds, whose nests were in the mighty branches of the chestnut-trees.

She needed the repose more than the teaching, even; for all day the sun had fallen heavily
on the harvesters,--and toiling with a troubled heart, under a burning sun, will leave the
laborer not in the best condition for such work as Jacqueline believed she had to do.

But she had promised the old woman she would read these tracts, and this was her only time,
for they must be returned that night: others were waiting for them with an eagerness and longing
of which, haply, tract-dispensers see little now. Still she delayed in opening them. The news
of Leclerc's sentence had filled her with dismay.

Did she dread to read the truth,--"the truth of Jesus Christ," as his mother styled it? The
frightful image of the bleeding, lacerated wool-comber would come between her and the book
in which that faith was written for maintaining which this man must suffer. Strange contrast
between the heavy gloom and terror of her thoughts and the peaceful "river flowing on"! How
tranquil were the fields that spread beyond her sight! But there is no rest or joy in Nature
to the agitated and foreboding spirit. Must we not have conquered the world, if we serenely
enter into Nature's rest?

Fain would Jacqueline have turned her face and steps in another direction that night than toward
the road that led to Meaux: to the village on the border of the Vosges,--to the ancient Domrémy.
Once her home was there; but Jacqueline had passed forth from the old, humble, true defences:
for herself must live and die.

Domrémy had a home for her no more. The priest, on whom she had relied when all failed her,
was still there, it is true; and once she had thought, that, while he lived, she was not fatherless,
not homeless: but his authority had ceased to be paternal, and she trusted him no longer.

She had two graves in the old village, and among the living a few faces she never could forget.
But on this earth she had no home.

Musing on these dreary facts, and on the bleeding, branded image of Leclerc, as her imagination
rendered him back to his friends, his fearful trial over, a vision more familiar to her childhood
than her youth opened to Jacqueline.

There was one who used to wander through the woods that bordered the mountains in whose shadow
stood Domrémy,--one whose works had glorified her name in the England and the France that made
a martyr of her. Jeanne d'Arc had ventured all things for the truth's sake: was she, who also
came forth from that village, by any power commissioned?

Jacqueline laid the tracts on the grass. Over them she placed a stone. She bowed her head.
She hid her face. She saw no more the river, trees, or home-returning birds; heard not the
rush of water or of wind,--nor, even now, the hurry and the shout; that possibly to-morrow
would follow the poor wool-comber through the streets of Meaux,--and on the third day they
would brand him!

She remembered an old cottage in the shadow of the forest-covered mountains. She remembered
one who died there suddenly, and without remedy,--her father, unabsolved and unanointed, dying
in fear and torment, in a moment when none anticipated death. She remembered a strong-hearted
woman who seemed to die with him,--who died to all the interests of this life, and was buried
by her husband ere a twelvemonth had passed,--her mother, who was buried by her father's side.

Burdened with a solemn care they left their child. The priest of Domrémy, and none beside him,
knew the weight of this burden. How had he helped her bear it? since it is the business of
the shepherd to look after the younglings of the flock. Her hard earnings paid him for the
prayers he offered for the deliverance of her father from his purgatorial woes. Burdened with
a dire debt of filial love, the priest had let her depart from Domrémy; his influence followed
her as an oppression and a care,--a degradation also.

Her life of labor was a slavish life. All she did, and all she left undone, she looked at with
sad-hearted reference to the great object of her life. Far away she put all allurement to tempting,
youthful joy. What had she to do with merriment and jollity, while a sin remained unexpiated,
or a moment of her father's suffering and sorrow could be anticipated?

How, probably, would these new doctrines, held fast by some through persecution and danger,
these doctrines which brought liberty to light, be received by one so fast a prisoner of Hope
as she? She had pledged herself, with solemn vows had promised, to complete the work her mother
left unfinished when she died.

Some of the laborers in the field, Elsie among them, had hoped, they said, that the wool-comber
would retract from his dangerous position. Recalling their words, Jacqueline asked herself
would she choose to have him retract? She reminded herself of the only martyr whose memory
she loved, the glorious girl from Domrémy, and a lofty and stern spirit seemed to rouse within
her as she answered that question. She believed that John had found and taught the truth; and
was Truth to be sacrificed to Power that hated it? Not by a suicidal act, at least.

She took the tracts, so judging, from underneath the stone, wistfully looked them over, and,
as she did so, recalled these words: "You cannot buy your pardon of a priest; he has no power
to sell it; he cannot even give it. Ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally, upbraiding not.

She could never forget these words. She could never forget the preacher's look when he used
them; nor the solemnity of the assenting faith, as attested by the countenances of those around
her in that "upper room."

But her father! What would this faith do for the departed?

Yet again she dared to pray,--here in this solitude, to ask for that Holy Spirit, the Enlightener.
And it was truly with trembling, in the face of all presentiments of what the gift might possibly,
must certainly, import to her. But what was she, that she could withstand God, or His gift,
for any fear of the result that might attend the giving of the gift?

Divinely she seemed to be inspired with that courageous thought. She rose up, as if to follow
the laborers who had already gone to Meaux. But she had not passed out from the shadow of the
great trees when another shadow fell along her path.

III.

It was Victor Le Roy who was so close at hand. He recognized Jacqueline; for, as he came down
the road, now and then he caught a glimpse of her red peasant-dress. And he accepted his persuasion
as it had been an assurance; for he believed that on such a night no other girl would linger
alone near the place of her day's labor. Moreover, while passing the group of harvesters, he
had observed that she was not among them.

The acquaintance of these young persons was but slight; yet it was of such a character as must
needs increase. Within the last fortnight they had met repeatedly in the room of Leclerc's
mother. On the last night of her son's preaching they had together listened to his words. The
young student with manly aspirations, ambitious, courageous, inquiring, and the peasant girl
who toiled in fields and vineyards, were on the same day hearkening to the call, "Ho, every
one that thirsteth!" with the consciousness that the call was meant for them.

When Victor Le Roy saw that Jacqueline perceived and recognized him, he also observed the tracts
in her hand and the trouble in her countenance, and he wondered in his heart whether she could
be ignorant of what had passed that day at Meaux, and if it could be possible that her manifest
disturbance arose from any perplexity or disquietude independent of the sentence that had been
passed on John Leclerc. His first words brought an answer that satisfied his doubt.

"She has chosen that good part which shall not be taken from her," said he, as he came near.
"The country is so fair, could no one of them all except Jacqueline see that? Were they all
drawn away by the bloody fascination of Meaux? even Elsie?"

"It was the news that hurried her home with the rest," answered she, almost pleased at this
disturbance of the solitude.

"Did that keep you here, Jacqueline?" he asked. "It sent me out of the city. The dust choked
me. Every face looked like a devil's. To-morrow night, to-morrow night, the harvesters will
hurry all the faster. Terrible curiosity! And if they find traces of his blood along the streets,
there will be enough to talk about through the rest of the harvesting. Jacqueline, if the river
could be poured through those streets, the sacred blood could never be washed out. 'Tis not
the indignity, nor the cruelty, I think of most, but the barbarous, wild sin. Shall a man's
truest liberty be taken from him, as though, indeed, he were not a man of God, but the spiritual
subject of his fellows? If that is their plan, they may light the fires,--there are many who
will not shrink from sealing their faith with their blood."

These words, spoken with vehemence, were the first free utterance Victor Le Roy had given to
his feelings all day. All day they had been concentrating, and now came from him fiery and fast.

It was time for him to know in whom and in what he believed.

Greatly moved by his words, Jacqueline said, giving him the tracts,--

"I came from Domrémy, I am free. No one can be hurt by what befalls me. I want to know the
truth. I am not afraid. Did John Leclerc never give way for a moment? Is he really to be whipped
through the streets, and on the third day to be branded? Will he not retract?"

"Never!" was the answer,--spoken not without a shudder. "He did not flinch through all the
trial, Jacqueline. And his old mother says, 'Blessed be Jesus Christ and his witnesses!'"

"I came from Domrémy," seemed to be in the girl's thought again; for her eyes flashed when
she looked at Victor Le Roy, as though she could believe the heavens would open for the enlightening
of such believers.

"She gave me those to read," said she, pointing to the tracts she had given him.

"And have you been reading them here by yourself?"

"No. Elsie and I were to have read them together; but I fell to thinking."

"You mean to wait for her, then?"

"I was afraid I should not make the right sense of them."

"Sit down, Jacqueline, and let me read aloud. I have read them before. And I understand them
better than Elsie does, or ever will."

"I am afraid that is true, Sir. If you read, I will listen."

But he did not, with this permission, begin instantly.

"You came from Domrémy, Jacqueline," said he. "I came from Picardy. My home was within a stone's
throw of the castle where Jeanne d'Arc was a prisoner before they carried her to Rouen. I have
often walked about that castle and tried to think how it must have been with her when they
left her there a prisoner. God knows, perhaps we shall all have an opportunity of knowing,
how she felt when a prisoner of Truth. Like a fly in a spider's net she was, poor girl! Only
nineteen! She had lived a life that was worth the living, Jacqueline. She knew she was about
to meet the fate her heart must have foretold. Girls do not run such a course and then die
quietly in their beds. They are attended to their rest by grim sentinels, and they light fagots
for them. I have read the story many a time, when I could look at the window of the very room
where she was a prisoner. It was strange to think of her witnessing the crowning of the King,
with the conviction that her work ended there and then,--of the women who brought their children
to touch her garments or her hands, to let her smile on them, or speak to them, or maybe kiss
them. And the soldiers deemed their swords were stronger when they had but touched hers. And
they knelt down to kiss her standard, that white standard, so often victorious! I have read
many a time of that glorious day at Rheims."

"And she said, that day,' Oh, why can I not die here?'" said Jacqueline, with a low voice.

"And when the Archbishop asked her," continued Victor, "'Where do you, then, expect to die?'
she answered, 'I know not. I shall die where God pleases. I have done what the Lord my God
commanded me; and I wish that He would now send me to keep my sheep with my mother and sister.'"

"Because she loved Domrémy, and her work was done," said Jacqueline, sadly. "And so many hated
her! But her mother would be sure to love. Jeanne would never see an evil eye in Domrémy, and
no one would lie in wait to kill her in the Vosges woods."

"It was such as you, Jacqueline, who believed in her, and comforted her. And to every one that
consoled her Christ will surely say, 'Ye blessed of my Father, ye did it unto me!' Yes, to
be sure, there were too many who stood ready to kill her in all France,--besides those who
were afraid of her, and fought against our armies. Even when they were taking her to see the
Dauphin, the guard would have drowned her, and lied about it, but they were restrained. It
is something to have been born in Domrémy,--to have grown up in the very place where she used
to play, a happy little girl. You have seen that fountain, and heard the bells she loved so
much. It was good for you, I know."

"Her prayers were everywhere," Jacqueline replied. "Everywhere she heard the voices that called
her to come and deliver France. But her father did not believe in her. He persecuted Jeanne."

"A man's foes are of his own household," said Victor. "You see the same thing now. It is the
very family of Christ--yes! so they dare call it--who are going to tear and rend Leclerc to-morrow
for believing the words of Christ. A hundred judges settled that Jeanne should be burned; and
for believing such words as are in these books"--

"Read me those words," said Jacqueline.

So they turned from speaking of Joan and her work, to contemplate another style of heroism,
and to question their own hearts.

Jacqueline Gabrie had lived through eighteen years of hardship and exposure. She was strong,
contented, resolute. Left to herself, she would probably have suffered no disturbance of her
creed,--would have lived and died conforming to the letter of its law. But thrown under the
influence of those who did agitate the subject, she was brave and clear-headed. She listened
now, while, according to her wish, her neighbor read,--listened with clear intelligence, intent
on the truth. That, or any truth, accepted, she would hardly shrink from whatever it involved.
This was the reason why she had really feared to ask the Holy Ghost's enlightenment! So well
she understood herself! Truth was truth, and, if received, to be abided by. She could not hold
it loosely. She could not trifle with it. She was born in Domrémy. She had played under the
Fairy Oak. She knew the woods where Joan wandered when she sought her saintly solitude. The
fact was acting on her as an inspiration, when Domrémy became a memory, when she labored far
away from the wooded Vosges and the meadows of Lorraine.

She listened to the reading, as girls do not always listen when they sit in the presence of
a reader such as young Le Roy.

And let it here be understood--that the conclusion bring no sorrow, and no sense of wrong to
those who turn these pages, thinking to find the climax dear to half-fledged imagination, incapable
from inexperience of any deeper truth, (I render them all homage!)--this story is not told
for any sake but truth's.

This Jacqueline did listen to this Victor, thinking actually of the words he read. She looked
at him really to ascertain whether her apprehension of these things was all the same as his.
She questioned him, with the simple desire to learn what he could tell her. Her hands were
very hard, so constant had been her dealing with the rough facts of this life; but the hard
hand was firm in its clasp, and ready with its helpfulness. Her eyes were open, and very clear
of dreams. There was room in them for tenderness as well as truth. Her voice was not the sweetest
of all voices in this world; but it had the quality that would make it prized by others when
heart and flesh were failing; for it would be strong to speak then with cheerful faith and
an unfaltering courage.

Jacqueline sat there under the chestnut-trees, upon the river-bank, strong-hearted, high-hearted,
a brave, generous woman. What if her days were toilsome? What if her peasant-dress was not
the finest woven in the looms of Paris or of Meaux? Her prayers were brief, her toil was long,
her sleep was sound,--her virtue firm as the everlasting mountains. Jacqueline, I have singled
you from among hordes and tribes and legions upon legions of women, one among ten thousand,
altogether lovely,--not for dalliance, not for idleness, not for dancing, which is well; not
for song, which is better; not for beauty, which, perhaps, is best; not for grace, or power,
or passion. There is an attribute of God which is more to His universe than all evidence of
power. It is His truth. Jacqueline, it is for this your name shall shine upon my page.

And, manifestly, it is by virtue of this quality that her reader is moved and attracted at
this hour of twilight on the river-bank.

Her intelligence is so quick! her apprehension so direct! her conclusions so true! He intended
to aid her; but Mazurier himself had never uttered comments so entirely to the purpose as did
this young girl, speaking from heart and brain. Better fortune, apparently, could not have
befallen him than was his in this reading; for with every sentence almost came her comment,
clear, earnest, to the point.

He had need of such a friend as Jacqueline seemed able to prove herself. His nearest living
relative was an uncle, who had sent the ambitious and capable young student to Meaux; for he
gave great promise, and was worth an experiment, the old man thought,--and was strong to be
thrown out into the world, where he might ascertain the power of self-reliance. He had need
of friends, and, of all friends, one like Jacqueline.

From the silence and retirement of his home in Picardy he had come to Meaux,--the town that
was so astir, busy, thoroughly alive! Inexperienced in worldly ways he came. His face was beautiful
with its refinement and power of expression. His eyes were full of eloquence; so also was his
voice. When he came from Picardy to Meaux, his old neighbors prophesied for him. He knew their
prophecies, and purposed to fulfil them. He ceased from dreaming, when he came to Meaux. He
was not dreaming, when he looked on Jacqueline. He was aware of what he read, and how she listened,
under those chestnut-trees.

The burden of the tracts he read to Jacqueline was salvation by faith, not of works,--an iconoclastic
doctrine, that was to sweep away the great mass of Romish superstition, invalidating Papal
power. Image-worship, shrine-frequenting sacrifices, indulgences, were esteemed and proved
less than nothing worth in the work of salvation.

"Did you understand John, when he said that the priests deceived us and were full of robberies,
and talked about the masses for the dead, and said the only good of them was to put money into
the Church?" asked Jacqueline.

"I believe it," he replied, with spirit.

"That the masses are worth nothing?" she asked,--far from concealing that the thought disturbed
her.

"What can they be worth, if a man has lived a bad life?"

"That my father did not!" she exclaimed.

"If a man is a bad man, why, then he is. He has gone where he must be judged. The Scripture
says, As a tree falls, it must lie."

"My father was a good man, Victor. But he died of a sudden, and there was no time."

"No time for what, Jacqueline? No time for him to turn about, and be a bad man in the end?"

"No time for confession and absolution. He died praying God to forgive him all his sins. I
heard him. I wondered, Victor, for I never thought of his committing sins. And my mother mourned
for him as a good wife should not mourn for a bad husband."

"Then what is your trouble, Jacqueline?"

"Do you know why I came here to Meaux? I came to get money,--to earn it. I should be paid more
money here than I got for any work at home, they said: that was the reason. When I had earned
so much,--it was a large sum, but I knew I should get it, and the priest encouraged me to think
I should,--he said that my heart's desire would be accomplished. And I could earn the money
before winter is over, I think. But now, if"----

"Throw it into the Seine, when you get it, rather than pay it to the liar for selling your
father out of a place he was never in! He is safe, believe me, if he was the good man you say.
Do not disturb yourself, Jacqueline."

"He never harmed a soul. And we loved him that way a bad man could not be loved."

As Jacqueline said this, a smile more sad than joyful passed over her face, and disappeared.

"He rests in peace," said Victor Le Roy.

"It is what I must believe. But what if there should be a mistake about it? It was all I was
working for."

"Think for yourself, Jacqueline. No matter what Leclerc thinks or I think. Can you suppose
that Jesus Christ requires any such thing as this of you, that you should make a slave of yourself
for the expiation of your father? It is a monstrous thought. Doubt not it was love that took
him away so quickly. And love can care for him. Long before this, doubtless, he has heard the
words, 'Come, ye blessed of my father!' And what is required of you, do you ask? You shall
be merciful to them that live; and trust Him that He will care for those who have gone beyond
your reach. Is it so? Do I understand you? You have been thinking to buy this good gift of
God, eternal life for your father, when of course you could have nothing to do with it. You
have been imposed upon, and robbed all this while, and this is the amount of it."

"Well, do not speak so. If what you say is true,--and I think it may be,--what is past is past."

"But won't you see what an infernal lie has been practised on you, and all the rest of us who
had any conscience or heart in us, all this while? There is no purgatory; and it is nonsense
to think, that, if there were, money could buy a man out of it. Jesus Christ is the one sole
atonement for sin. And by faith in Him shall a man save his soul alive. That is the only way.
If I lose my soul, and am gone, the rest is between me and God. Do you see it should be so,
and must be so, Jacqueline?"

"He was a good man," said Jacqueline.

She did not find it quite easy to make nothing of all this matter, which had been the main-spring
of her effort since her father died. She could not in one instant drop from her calculations
that on which she had heretofore based all her activity. She had labored so long, so hard,
to buy the rest and peace and heavenly blessedness of the father she loved, it was hardly to
be expected that at once she would choose to see that in that rest and peace and blessedness,
she, as a producing power, had no part whatever.

As she more than hinted, the purpose of her life seemed to be taken from her. She could not
perceive that fact without some consternation; could not instantly connect it with another,
which should enable her to look around her with the deliberation of a liberated spirit, choosing
her new work. And in this she was acted upon by more than the fear arising from the influences
of her old belief. Of course she should have been, and yet she was not, able to drop instantly
and forever from recollection the constant sacrifices she had made, the deprivation she had
endured, with heroic persistence,--the putting far away every personal indulgence whose price
had a market value. Her father was not the only person concerned in this work; the priest;
herself. She had believed in the pastor of Domrémy. Yet he had deceived her. Else he was self-deceived;
and what if the blind should strive to lead the blind? Could she accept the new faith, the
great freedom, with perfect rejoicing?

Victor Le Roy seemed to have some suspicion of what was passing in her thoughts. He did not
need to watch her changeful face in order to understand them.

"I advise you to still think of this," said he. "Recall your father's life, and then ask yourself
if it is likely that He who is Love requires the sacrifice of your youth and your strength
before your father shall receive from Him what He has promised to give to all who trust in
Him. Take God at his word, and you will be obliged to give up all this priest-trash."

IV.

Victor Le Roy spoke these words quietly, as if aware that he might safely leave them, as well
as any other true words, to the just sense of Jacqueline.

She was none the happier for them when she returned that night to the little city room, the
poor lodging whose high window overlooked both town and country, city streets and harvest-fields,
and the river flowing on beyond the borders of the town,--no happier through many a moment
of thinking, until, as it were by an instant illumination, she began to see the truth of the
matter, as some might wonder she did not instantly perceive it, if they could omit from observation
this leading fact, that the orphan girl was Jacqueline Gabrie, child of the Church, and not
a wise and generous person, who had never been in bondage to superstitions.

For a long time after her return to her lodging she was alone. Elsie was in the street with
the rest of the town, talking, as all were talking, of the sight that Meaux should see to-morrow.

Besides Jacqueline, there was hardly another person in this great building, six stories high,
every room of which had usually a tenant at this hour. She sat by her window, and looked at
the dusky town, over which the moon was rising. But her thoughts were far away; over many a
league they wandered.

Once more she stood on the playground of her toilsome childhood. She recalled many a year of
sacrificing drudgery, which now she could not name such,--for another reason than that which
had heretofore prevented her from calling it a sacrifice. She remembered these years of wrong
and of extortion,--they received their proper name now,--years whose mirth and leisure she
had quietly foregone, but during which she had borne a burden that saddened youth, while it
also dignified it,--a burden which had made her heart's natural cheerfulness the subject of
self-reproach, and her maiden dreams and wishes matter for tears, for shame, for confession,
for prayer.

Now Victor Le Roy's words came to her very strangely; powerfully they moved her. She believed
them in this solitude, where at leisure she could meditate upon them. A vision more fair and
blessed than she had ever imagined rose before her. There was no suffering in it, and no sorrow;
it was full of peace. Already, in the heaven to which she had hoped her toil would give him
at length admission, her father had found his home. There was a glory in his rest not reflected
from her filial love, but from the all-availing love of Christ.

Then--delay the rigor of your judgment!--she began,--yes, she, this Jacqueline, began to count
the cost of what she had done. She was not a sordid soul, she had not a miserly nature. Before
she had gone far in that strange computation, she paused abruptly, with a crimsoned face, and
not with tearless eyes. Counting the cost! Estimating the sacrifice! Had, then, her purpose
been less holy because excited by falsehood and sustained through delusion? Was she less loving
and less true, because deceived? And was she to lament that Christ, the one and only Priest,
rather than another instrumentality, was the deliverer of her beloved from the power of death?

No ritual was remembered, and no formula consulted, when she cried out,--"It is so! and I thank
Thee! Only give me now, my Jesus, a purpose as holy as that Thou hast taken away!"

But she had not come into her chamber to spend a solitary evening there. Turning away from
the window, she bestowed a little care upon her person, smoothed away the traces of her day's
labor, and after all was done she lingered yet longer. She was going out, evidently. Whither?
To visit the mother of John Leclerc. She must carry back the tracts the good woman had lent
her. Their contents had firm lodgement in her memory.

Others might run to and fro in the streets, and talk about the corners, and prognosticate with
passion, and defy, in the way of cowardice, where safety rather than the truth is well assured.
If one woman could console another, Jacqueline wished that she might console Leclerc's mother.
And if any words of wisdom could drop from the poor old woman's lips while her soul was in
this strait, Jacqueline desired to hear those words.

Down the many flights of stairs she went across the court, and then along the street, to the
house where the wool-comber lived.

A brief pause followed her knock for admittance. She repeated it. Then was heard a sound from
within,--a step crossing the floor. The door opened, and there stood the mother of Leclerc,
ready to face any danger, the very Fiend himself.

But when she saw that it was Jacqueline, only Jacqueline,--an angel, as one might say, and
not a devil,--the terrible look passed from her face; she opened the door wide.

"Come in, child! come in!"

So Jacqueline went into the room where John had worked and thought, reasoned, argued, prayed.

This is the home of the man because of whom many are this night offended in the city of Meaux.
This is the place whence issued the power that has set the tongues to talking, and the minds
to thinking, and the hearts to hoping, and the authorities to avenging.

A grain of mustard-seed is the kingdom of heaven in a figure; the wandering winds a symbol
of the Pentecostal power: a dove did signify the descent of God to man. This poor chamber,
so pent in, and so lowly, so obscure, has its significance. Here has a life been lived; and
not the least does it import, that walls are rough and the ceiling low.

But the life of John Leclerc was not to be limited. A power has stood here which by its freedom
has set at defiance the customary calculation of the worldly-wise. In high places and in low
the people are this night disturbed because of him who has dared to lift his voice in the freedom
of the speech of God. In drawing-rooms odorous with luxury the man's name has mention, and
the vulgarity of his liberated speech and courageous faith is a theme to move the wonder and
excite the reprobation of hearts whose languid beating keeps up their show of life, --to what
sufficient purpose expect me not to tell. His voice is loud and harsh to echo through these
music-loving halls; it rends and tears, with almost savage strength, the dainty silences.

But busier tongues are elsewhere more vehement in speech; larger hearts beat faster indignation;
grief and vulgarest curiosity are all manifesting themselves after their several necessity.
In solitary places heroes pray throughout the night, wrestling like Jacob, agonizing like Saul,
and with some of them the angel left his blessing; for some the golden harp was struck that
soothed their souls to peace. Angels of heaven had work to do that night. Angels of heaven
and hell did prove themselves that night in Meaux: night of unrest and sleeplessness, or of
cruel dreaming; night of bloody visions, tortured by the apprehension of a lacerated body driven
through the city streets, and of the hooting shouts of Devildom; night haunted by a gory image,--the
defiled temple of the Holy Ghost.

Did the prospect of torture keep him wakeful? Could the man bear the disgrace, the derision,
shouting, agony? Was there nothing in this thought, that as a witness of Jesus Christ he was
to appear next day, that should soothe him even unto slumber? Upon the silence of his guarded
chamber let none but ministering angels break. Sacred to him, and to Him who watched the hours
of the night, let the night go!

But here--his mother, Jacqueline with her--we may linger with these.

V.

When the old woman saw that it was Jacqueline Gabrie who stood waiting admittance, she opened
the door wider, as I said; and the dark solemnity of her countenance seemed to be, by so much
as a single ray, enlivened for an instant.

She at once perceived the tracts which Jacqueline had brought. Aware of this, the girl said,--

"I stayed to hear them read, after I heard that for the sake of the truth in them"--she hesitated--"this
city will invite God's wrath to-morrow."

And she gave the papers to the old woman, who took them in silence.

By-and-by she asked,--

"Are you just home, Jacqueline?"

"Since sunset,--though it was nearly dark when I came in,"--she answered. "Victor Le Roy was
down by the riverbank, and he read them for me."

"He wanted to get out of town, maybe. You would surely have thought it was a holiday, Jacqueline,
if you could have seen the people. Anything for a show: but some of them might well lament.
Did you want to know the truth he pays so dear for teaching? But you have heard it, my child."

"We all heard what he must pay for it, in the fields at noon. Yes, mother, I wanted to know."

"But if you shall believe it, Jacqueline, it may lead you into danger, into sad straits," said
the old woman, looking at the young girl with earnest pity in her eyes.

She loved this girl, and shuddered at the thought of exposing her to danger.

Jacqueline had nursed her neighbor, Antonine, and more than once, after a hard day's labor,
which must be followed by another, she had sat with her through the night; and she could pay
this service only with love, and the best gift of her love was to instruct her in the truth.
John and she had proved their grateful interest in her fortunes by giving her that which might
expose her to danger, persecution, and they could not foresee to what extremity of evil.

And now the old woman felt constrained to say this to her, even for her love's sake,--"It may
lead you into danger."

"But if truth is dangerous, shall I choose to be safe?" answered Jacqueline, with stately courage.

"It is truth. It will support him. Blessed be Jesus Christ and His witnesses! To-night, and
to-morrow, and the third day, our Jesus will sustain him. They think John will retract. They
do not know my son. They do not know how he has waited, prayed, and studied to learn the truth,
and how dear it is to him. No, Jacqueline, they do not. But when they prove him, they will
know. And if he is willing to witness, shall I not be glad? The people will understand him
better afterward,--and the priests, maybe. 'I can do all things,' said he, 'Christ strengthening
me'; and that was said long ago, by one who was proved. Where shall you be, Jacqueline?"

"Oh," groaned Jacqueline, "I shall be in the fields at work, away from these cruel people,
and the noise and the sight. But, mother, where shall you be?"

"With the people, child. With him, if I live. Yes, he is my son; and I have never been ashamed
of the brave boy. I will not be ashamed to-morrow. I will follow John; and when they bind him,
I will let him see his mother's eyes are on him,--blessing him, my child!--Hark! how they talk
through the streets!--Jacqueline, he was never a coward. He is strong, too. They will not kill
him, and they cannot make him dumb. He will hold the truth the faster for all they do to him.
Jesus Christ on his side, do you think he will fear the city, or all Paris, or all France?
He does not know what it is to be afraid. And when God opened his eyes to the truth of his
gospel, which the priests had hid, he meant that John should work for it,--for he is a working-man,
whatever he sets about."

So this old woman tried, and not without success, to comfort herself, and sustain her tender,
proud, maternal heart. The dire extremity into which she and her son had fallen did not crush
her; few were the tears that fell from her eyes as she recalled for Jacqueline the years of
her son's boyhood,--told her of his courage, as in various ways it had made itself manifest:
how he had always been fearless in danger,--a conqueror of pain,--seemingly regardless of comfort,--fond
of contemplation,--contented with his humble state,--kindly, affectionate, generous, but easily
stirred to wrath by injustice, when manifested by the strong toward the weak,--or by cruelty,
or by falsehood.

Many an anecdote of his career might she relate; for his character, under the pressure of this
trial, which was as searching and severe a test of her faith as of his, seemed to illustrate
itself in manifold heroic ways, all now of the highest significance. With more majesty and
grandeur his character arose before her; for now in all the past, as she surveyed it, she beheld
a living power, a capability, and a necessity of new and grand significance, and her heart
reverenced the spirit she had nursed into being.

Removed to the distance of a prison from her sight, separated from her love by bolts and bars,
and the wrath of tyranny and close-banded bigotry, he became a power, a hero, who moved her,
as she recalled his sentence, and prophesied the morrow, to a feeling tears could not explain.

They passed the night together, the young woman and the old. In the morning Jacqueline must
go into the field again. She was in haste to go. Leaving a kiss on the old woman's cheek, she
was about to steal away in silence; but as she laid her hand upon the latch, a thought arrested
her, and she did not open the door, but went back and sat beside the window, and watched the
mother of Leclerc through the sleep that must be brief. It was not in her heart to go away
and leave those eyes to waken upon solitude. She must see a helpful hand and hopeful face,
and, if it might be, hear a cheerful human voice, in the dawning of that day.

She had not long to wait, and the time she may have lost in waiting Jacqueline did not count
or reckon, when she heard her name spoken, and could answer, "What wilt thou? here am I."

Not in vain had she lingered. What were wages, more or less, that they should be mentioned,
thought of, when she might give and receive here what the world gives not, and never has to
give,--and what a mortal cannot buy, the treasure being priceless? Through the quiet of that
morning hour, soothing words, and strong, she felt and knew to speak; and when at last she
hurried away from the city to the fields, she was stronger than of nature, able to bear witness
to the faith that speaks from the bewilderment of its distresses, "Though He slay me, yet will
I trust in Him."

Not alone had her young, frank, loving eyes enlivened the dreary morning to the heart of Leclerc's
mother. Grace for grace had she received. And words of the hymn that were always on John's
lips had found echo from his mother's memory this morning: they lodged in the heart of Jacqueline.
She went away repeating,--

  "In the midst of death, the jaws
  Of hell against us gape.
  Who from peril dire as this
  Openeth us escape?
  'Tis thou, O Lord, alone!
  Let us not despair
  For the fire that burneth there!
  Kyrie, eleison!"

Jacqueline met Elsie on her way to the fields. But the girls had not much to say to each other
that morning in their walk. Elsie was manifestly conscious of some great constraint; she might
have reported to her friend what she had heard in the streets last night, but she felt herself
prevented from such communication,--seemed to be intent principally on one thing: she would
not commit herself in any direction. She was looking with suspicion upon Jacqueline. Whatever
became of her soul, her body she would save alive. She was waking to this world's enjoyment
with vision alert, senses keen. Martyrdom in any degree was without attraction to her, and
in Truth she saw no beauty that she should desire it. It was a root out of dry ground indeed,
that gave no promise of spreading into goodly shelter and entrancing beauty.

As to Jacqueline, she was absorbed in her heroic and exalted thoughts. Her heart had almost
failed her when she said farewell to John's mother; tearfully she had hurried on her way. One
vast cloud hung between her and heaven; darkly rolled the river; every face seemed to bear
witness to the tragedy that day should witness.

Not the least of her affliction was the consciousness of the distance increasing between herself
and Elsie Méril. She knew that Elsie was rejoicing that she had in no way endangered herself
yet; and sure was she that in no way would Elsie invite the fury of avenging tyranny and reckless
superstition.

Jacqueline asked her no questions,--spoke few words to her,--was absorbed in her own thoughts.
But she was kindly in her manner, and in such words as she spoke. So Elsie perceived two things,--that
she should not lose her friend, neither was in danger of being seized by the heretical mania.
It was her way of drawing inferences. Certain that she had not lost her friend, because Jacqueline
did not look away, and refuse to recognize her; congratulating herself that she was not the
object of suspicion, either justly or unjustly, among the dreadful priests.

But that friend whose steady eye had balanced Elsie was already sick at heart, for she knew
that never more must she rely upon this girl who came with her from Domrémy.

As they crossed the bridge, lingering thereon a moment, the river seemed to moan in its flowing
toward Meaux. The day's light was sombre; the birds' songs had no joyous sound,--plaintive
was their chirping; it saddened the heart to hear the wind,--it was a wind that seemed to take
the buoyancy and freshness out of every living thing, an ugly southeast wind. They went on
together,--to the wheat-fields together;--it was to be day of minutes to poor Jacqueline.

To be away from Meaux bodily was, it appeared, only that the imagination might have freer exercise.
Yes,--now the people must be moving through the streets; shopmen were not so intent on profits
this day as they were on other days. The priests were thinking with vengeful hate of the wrong
to themselves which should be met and conquered that day. The people should be swiftly brought
into order again! John in his prison was preparing, as all without the prison were.

The crowd was gathering fast. He would soon be led forth. The shameful march was forming. Now
the brutal hand of Power was lifted with scourges. The bravest man in Meaux was driven through
the streets,--she saw with what a visage,--she knew with what a heart. Her heart was awed with
thinking thereupon. A bloody mist seemed to fall upon the environs of Meaux; through that red
horror she could not penetrate; it shrouded and it held poor Jacqueline.

Of the faith that would sustain him she began once more to inquire. It is not by a bound that
mortals ever clear the heights of God. Step by step they scale the eminences, toiling through
the heavenly atmosphere. Only around the summit shines the eternal sun.

So she must now recall the words that Victor Le Roy read for her last night; and the words
he spoke from out his heart,--these also. And she did not fear now, as yesterday, to ask for
light. Let the light dawn,--oh, let it shine on her!

The mother of Leclerc had uttered mysterious words which Jacqueline took for truth; the light
was joyful and blessed, and of all things to be desired, though it smote the life from one
like lightning. She waited alone with faith, watching till it should come,--left alone with
this beam glimmering like a moth through darkness!--for thus was a believer, or one who resolved
on believing, left in that day, when he turned from the machinery of the Church, and stood
alone, searching for God without the aid of priestly intervention.

VI.

There was something awful in such loneliness.

Jacqueline knew little of it until now, as she walked toward the fields, by the side of Elsie
Méril.

She saw how she had depended on the priest of Domrémy, as he had been the lawgiver and the
leader of her life. A spiritual life, to be sustained only by the invisible spirit, to be lived
by faith, not in man, but in God, without intervention of saint or angel or Blessed Virgin,--was
the world's life liberated by such freedom?

By faith, and not by sight, the just must live. Would He bow his heavens and come down to dwell
with the contrite and the humble?

Wondrous strange it seemed,--incomprehensible,--more than she could manage or control. There
are prisoners whose pardon proves the world too large for them: they find no rest until their
prison-door is opened for them again.

Of this class was Elsie,--not Jacqueline. Elsie was afraid of freedom,--not equal to it,--unable
to deal with it; satisfied with being a child, with being a slave, when it came to be a question
whether she should accept and use her highest privilege and dignity. At this hour, and among
all persuasions, you will find that Elsie does not stand alone. Little children there are,
long as the world shall stand,--though not precisely such as we think of when we remember,
"Of such is the kingdom of heaven."

It was enough for Elsie--it is enough for multitudes through all the reformations--that she
had an earthly defence, even such as she relied on without trouble. She lived in the hour.
She had never toiled to deliver her darling from the lions,--to redeem a soul from purgatory.
She eased her conscience, when it was troubled, by such shallow discovery of herself as she
deemed confession. She loved dancing, and all other amusements,--hated solitude, knew not the
meaning of self-abnegation. And let her dance and enjoy herself!--some service to the body
is rendered thereby. She might do greatly worse, and is incapable of doing greatly better.
Will you stint the idiots of comfort,--or rather build them decent habitations, and even vex
yourself to feed and clothe them, in reverent confidence that the Future shall surely take
them up and bless them, unstop their ears, open their eyes, give speech to them and absolute
deliverance?

There are others beside Elsie who congratulate themselves on non-committal,--they covet not
the advanced and dangerous positions. Honorable, but dangerous positions! The head might be
taken off, do you not see? And could all eternity compensate for the loss of time? Ah, the
body might be mutilated,--the liberty restrained: as if, indeed, a man's freedom were not eternally
established, when his enemies, howling around, must at least crucify him! as if a divine voice
were not ever heard through the raging of the people, saying, "Come up higher!"

But a fern-leaf cannot grow into a mighty hemlock-tree. From the ashes of a sparrow the phoenix
shall not rise. You will not to all eternity, by any artificial means, nor by a miracle, bring
forth an eagle from a mollusk.

There was not a sadder heart in all those fields of Meaux than the heart of Jacqueline Gabrie.
There was not a stronger heart. Not a hand labored more diligently. Under the broad-brimmed
peasant-hat was a sad countenance,--under the peasant-dress a heavily burdened spirit. Silent,
all day, she labored. She was alone at noon under the river-bordered trees, eating her coarse
fare without zest, but with a conscience,--to sustain the body that was born to toil. But in
the maelström of doubt and anxiety was she tossed and whirled, and she cared not for her life.
To be rid of it, now for the first time, she felt might be a blessing. What purpose, indeed,
had she? She turned her thought from this question, but it would not let her alone. Again and
yet again she turned to meet it, and thus would surely have at length its satisfying answer.

John Leclerc might pass through this ordeal, as from the first she had expected of him. But
she listened to the speech of many of her fellow-laborers. Some prophecies which had a sound
incredible escaped them. She did not credit them, but they tormented her. They contended with
one another. John, some foretold, would certainly retract. One day of public whipping would
suffice. When the blood began to flow, he would see his duty clearer! The men were prophesying
from the depths and the abundance of their self-consciousness. Others speculated on the final
result of the executed sentence. They believed that the "obstinacy" and courage of the man
would provoke his judges, and the executors of his sentence,--that with rigor they would execute
it,--and that, led on by passion, and provoked by such as would side with the victim, the sentence
would terminate in his destruction. Sooner or later, nothing but his life would be found ultimately
to satisfy his enemies.

It might be so, thought Jacqueline Gabrie. What then? what then?--she thought. There was inspiration
to the girl in that cruel prophecy. Her lifework was not ended. If Christ was the One Ransom,
and it did truly fall on Him, and not on her, to care for those beloved, departed from this
life, her work was still for love.

John Leclerc disabled or dead, who should care then for his aged mother? Who should minister
to him? Who, indeed, but Jacqueline?

Living or dying, she said to herself, with grand enthusiasm,--living or dying, let him do the
Master's pleasure! She also was here to serve that Master; and while in spiritual things he
fed the hungry, clothed the naked, gave the cup of living water, visited the imprisoned, and
the sick of sin, she would bind herself to minister to him and his old mother in temporal things;
so should he live above all cares save those of heavenly love. She could support them all by
her diligence, and in this there would be joy.

She thought this through her toil; and the thought was its own reward. It strengthened her
like an angel,--strengthened heart and faith. She labored as no other peasant-woman did that
day,--like a beast of burden, unresisting, patient,--like a holy saint, so peaceful and assured,
so conscious of the present very God!

[To be continued.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MIDSUMMER.

  Around this lovely valley rise
  The purple hills of Paradise.

  Through all the long midsummer-day
  The meadow-sides are sweet with hay.
  I seek the coolest sheltered seat
  Just where the field and forest meet,--
  Where grow the pine-trees tall and bland,
  The ancient oaks austere and grand,
  And fringy roots and pebbles fret
  The ripples of the rivulet.

  I watch, the mowers as they go
  Through the tall grass, a white-sleeved row;
  With even stroke their scythes they swing,
  In tune their merry whetstones ring;
  Behind the nimble youngsters run
  And toss the thick swaths in the sun;
  The cattle graze; while, warm and still,
  Slopes the broad pasture, basks the hill,
  And bright, when summer breezes break,
  The green wheat crinkles like a lake.

  The butterfly and humble-bee
  Come to the pleasant woods with me;
  Quickly before me runs the quail,
  The chickens skulk behind the rail,
  High up the lone wood-pigeon sits,
  And the woodpecker pecks and flits.
  Sweet woodland music sinks and swells,
  The brooklet rings its tinkling bells,
  The swarming insects drone and hum,
  The partridge beats his throbbing drum.
  The squirrel leaps among the boughs,
  And chatters in his leafy house.
  The oriole flashes by; and, look!
  Into the mirror of the brook,
  Where the vain blue-bird trims his coat,
  Two tiny feathers fall and float.

  As silently, as tenderly,
  The down of peace descends on me.
  Oh, this is peace! I have no need
  Of friend to talk, of book to read:
  A dear Companion here abides;
  Close to my thrilling heart He hides;
  The holy silence is His Voice:
  I lie and listen, and rejoice.

TOBACCO. Anatomy of Melancholy.

A delicate subject? Very true; and one which must be handled as tenderly as biscuit de Sèvres,
or Venetian glass. Whichever side of the question we may assume, as the most popular, or the
most right, the feelings of so large and respectable a minority are to be consulted, that it
behooves the critic or reviewer to move cautiously, and, imitating the actions of a certain
feline household reformer, to show only the patte de velours.

The omniscient Burton seems to have reached the pith of the matter. The two hostile sections
of his proposition, though written so long since, would very well fit the smoker and the reformer
of to-day. That portion of the world which is enough advanced to advocate reforms is entirely
divided against itself on the subject of Tobacco. Immense interests, economical, social, and,
as some conceive, moral, are arrayed on either side. The reformers have hitherto had the better
of it in point of argument, and have pushed the attack with most vigor, yet with but trifling
results. Smokers and chewers, et id omne genus, mollified by their habits, or laboring under
guilty consciences, have made but a feeble defence. Nor in all this is there anything new.
It is as old as the knowledge of the "weed" among thinking men,--in other words, about three
centuries. The English adventurers under Drake and Raleigh and Hawkins, and the multitude of
minor Protestant "filibusters" who followed in their train, had no sooner imported the habit
of smoking tobacco, among the other outlandish customs which they brought home from the new
Indies and the Spanish Main, than the higher powers rebuked the practice, which novelty and
its own fascinations were rendering so fashionable, in language more forcible than elegant.
The philippic of King James is so apposite that we may be pardoned for transcribing one oft-quoted
sentence:--"But herein is not only a great vanity, but a great contempt of God's good gifts,
that the sweetness of man's breath, being a good gift of God, should be wilfully corrupted
by this stinking smoke.... A custom loathsome to the eye, hateful to the nose, harmfull to
the brain, dangerous to the lungs, and in the black stinking fume thereof neerest resembling
the horrible Stygian smoake of the pit that is bottomless."[a]

[Footnote a: Counterblast to Tobacco.]

The Popes Urban VIII. and Innocent XII. fulminated edicts of excommunication against all who
used tobacco in any form; from which we may conclude that the new habit was spreading rapidly
over Christendom. And not only the successors of St. Peter, but those also of the Prophet,
denounced the practice, the Sultan Amurath IV. making it punishable with death. The Viziers
of Turkey spitted the noses of smokers with their own pipes; the more considerate Shah of Persia
cut them entirely off. The knout greeted in Russia the first indulgence, and death followed
the second offence. In some of the Swiss cantons smoking was considered a crime second only
to adultery. Modern republics are not quite so severe.

It is not to be supposed that in England the royal pamphlet had its desired effect. For we
find that James laid many rigid sumptuary restrictions upon the practice which he abominated,
based chiefly upon the extravagance it occasioned,--the expenses of some smokers being estimated
at several hundred pounds a year. The King, however, had the sagacity to secure a preëmption-right
as early as 1620.

Yet how could the practice but have increased, when, as Malcolm relates the tradition, such
men as Sir Walter Raleigh and Sir Hugh Middleton sat smoking at their doors?--for "the public
manner in which it was exhibited, and the aromatic flavor inhaled by the passengers, exclusive
of the singularity of the circumstance and the eminence of the parties," could hardly have
failed to favor its dissemination. If the smoothness of the verses equalled the euphony of
the title, this must have proved a moving appeal.

Stow contents himself with calling tobacco "a stinking weed, so much abused to God's dishonor."

Burton exhausts the subject in a single paragraph. Ben Jonson, though a jolly good fellow,
was opposed to the habit of smoking. But Spenser mentions "divine tobacco." Walton's "Piscator"
indulges in a pipe at breakfast, and "Venator" has his tobacco brought from London to insure
its purity. Sweet Izaak could have selected no more soothing minister than the pipe to the
"contemplative man's recreation."

As the new sedative gains in esteem, we find Francis Quarles, in his "Emblems," treating it
in this serio-comic vein:--

  "Flint-hearted Stoics, you whose marble eyes
  Contemn a wrinkle, and whose souls despise
  To follow Nature's too affected fashion,
  Or travel in the regent walk of passion,--
  Whose rigid hearts disdain to shrink at
  fears,
  Or play at fast-and-loose with smiles and
  tears,--
  Come, burst your spleens with laughter to
  behold
  A new-found vanity, which days of old
  Ne'er knew,--a vanity that has beset
  The world, and made more slaves than Mahomet,--
  That has condemned us to the servile yoke
  Of slavery, and made us slaves to smoke,
  But stay! why tax I thus our modern
  times
  For new-born follies and for new-born
  crimes?
  Are we sole guilty, and the first age free?
  No: they were smoked and slaved as well
  as we.
  What's sweet-lipped honor's blast, but
  smoke? what's treasure,
  But very smoke? and what's more smoke
  than pleasure?"

Brand gives us the whole matter in a nutshell, in the following quaint epigram, entitled "A
Tobacconist," taken from an old collection:--

  "All dainty meats I do defy
  Which feed men fat as swine;
  He is a frugal man, indeed,
  That on a leaf can dine.

  "He needs no napkin for his hands
  His fingers' ends to wipe,
  That keeps his kitchen in a box,
  And roast meat in a pipe."

And so on, the singers of succeeding years, usque ad nauseam,--a loathing equalled only by
that of the earlier writers for the plant, now so lauded.

Tobacco-worship seems to us to culminate in the following stanza from a German song:--

  "Tabak ist mein Leben,
  Dem hab' ich mich ergeben, ergeben;
  Tabak ist meine Lust.
  Und eh' ich ihn sollt' lassen,
  Viel lieber wollt' ich hassen,
  Ja, hassen selbst eines Mädchens Kuss."

As it is with your sex, my dear Madam, that this question of Tobacco is to be mainly argued,--for,
to your honor be it spoken, you have always been of the reformatory party,--let us hope, that,
provided you have not read or translated the last verse, you have recovered your natural amiability,
ruffled perhaps by this odious subject, and are prepared to believe us when we tell you that
these opposite opinions cannot be wholly reconciled, and to follow us patiently while we attempt
to show that a certain gentleman, introduced to your maternal ancestor at a very remote period
of the world's history, is not so black as he is sometimes painted. Let us keep good-natured,
at least, in this discussion; for we propose to settle it without taking off the gloves, as
we intimated in the opening paragraph. Your patience will be much needed for the sad army of
facts and figures which is to follow. Therefore it is but just that you should speak now, after
these long sentences.

Your George will never smoke? Excuse me. When he will smoke depends upon the precocity of his
individual generation; and that increases in a direct ratio with time itself, in this country.
Thus, to state the matter in an approximate inverse arithmetical progression, and dating the
birth of "young America" about the year 1825,--previously to which reigned the dark ages of
oldfogydom, so called,--we find as follows: --From 1825 to 1835, young gentlemen learned to
smoke when from 25 to 20 years of age; from 1835 to 1845, young gents, ditto, ditto, from 20
to 15 years; 1845 to 1855, from 15 to 10; 1855 to 1865, 10 to 5; 1865 to 1875, 5 to 0; and,
if we continue, 1875 to 1885, zero to minus: but really the question is becoming too nebulous.
Corollary. In about ten years, the youth of the United States will smoke contemporaneously
with the infant Burmese, who, we are credibly informed, begin the habit aet. 3, or as soon
as they have cut enough teeth to hold a cigar.

Therefore, we will say, Madam, at some indefinite period of his childhood or youth,--for we
would not be so impolite as to infer your age by asking that of your son,--the susdit George
will come home late from play some afternoon, languid, pale, and disinclined for tea. He will
indignantly repel the accusation of feeling ill, and there will lurk about his person an indescribable
odor of stale cinnamon, which you will be at a loss to account for, but which his elder brother
will recognize as the natural result of smoking "cinnamon cigars," wherewith certain wicked
tobacconists of this city tempt curious youth. If you follow him to his chamber, you will probably
discover more damning evidence of his guilt.

We will draw the curtain over the scene of the Spartan mother--we hope you belong to that nearly
extinct class--which is to follow. Let us suppose all differences settled, the habit ostensibly
given up, and your darling, grown more honest or more artful,--the result is the same to your
blissful ignorance,--studiously pursuing his way until he enters college. Some fine day you
drive over to the neighboring university, and, entering his room unannounced, you find him
coloring his first (factitious) meerschaum!--also a sad deficiency in his wardrobe of half-worn
clothes. C'est une pipe qui coûte cher à culotter, the college meerschaum,--and in more ways
than one, according to the "Autocrat":--"I do not advise you, young man, to consecrate the
flower of your life to painting the bowl of a pipe," et seq. More bold, the Sophomore will
smoke openly at home; and by the end of the third vacation, it is one of those unyielding faits
accomplis against which reformers, household or peripatetic, beat their heads in vain.

Perhaps your husband smokes? If so, at what period of the twenty-four hours have you invariably
found Mr. ---- most lenient to your little pecuniary peccadilloes? Is he not always most good-natured
when his cigar is about one-third consumed, the ash evenly burnt and adherent, and not fallen
into his shirt-bosom? Depend upon it, tobacco is a great soother of domestic differences.

Let us, then, look an existing, firmly rooted evil--if you will call it so--in the face, and
see if it is quite so bad as it is represented. Ponder it well."

Query.--What did the old Roman do without a cigar? How idle through the day? How survive his
interminable post-coenal potations?--The thought is not our own. It occurs somewhere in De
Quincey, we believe. It is one of those self-evident propositions you wonder had not occurred
to you before.--What an accessory of luxury the pipe would have been to him who passed the
livelong day under the mosaic arches of the Thermoe! The strigiles would have vanished before
the meerschaum, had that magic clay then been known. How completely would the hookah and the
narghileh have harmonized with the crater, cyathi, and tripods of the triclinium in that portraiture
of the "Decadence of Rome" which hangs in the Luxembourg Gallery! Poor fellows! they managed
to exist without them.

Though pipes are found carved on very old sculptures in China, and the habit of smoking was
long since extensively followed there, according to Pallas, and although certain species of
the tobacco-plant, as the Nicotiana rustica, would appear to be indigenous to the country,
yet we have the best reason to conclude that America, if not the exclusive home of the herb,
was the birthplace of its use by man. The first great explorer of the West found the sensuous
natives of Hispaniola rolling up and smoking tobacco-leaves with the same persistent indolence
that we recognize in the Cuban of the present day. Rough Cortés saw with surprise the luxurious
Aztec composing himself for the siesta in the middle of the day as invariably as his fellow
Dons in Castile. But he was amazed that the barbarians had discovered in tobacco a sedative
to promote their reveries and compose them to sleep, of which the hidalgos were as yet ignorant,
but which they were soon to appropriate with avidity, and to use with equal zest. Humboldt
says that it had been cultivated by the people of Orinoco from time immemorial, and was smoked
all over America at the time of the Spanish Conquest,--also that it was first discovered by
Europeans in Yucatan, in 1520, and was there called Petum. Tobacco, according to the same authority,
was taken from the word tabac, the name of an instrument used in the preparation of the herb.

Though Columbus and his immediate followers doubtless brought home specimens of tobacco among
the other spoils of the New World, Jean Nicot, ambassador to Portugal from Francis II., first
sent the seeds to France, where they were cultivated and used about the year 1560. In honor
of its sponsor, Botany has named the plant Nicotiana tabacum, and Chemistry distinguished as
Nicotin its active alkaloid. Sir Francis Drake first brought tobacco to England about 1586.
It owed the greater part of its early popularity, however, to the praise and practice of Raleigh:
his high standing and character would have sufficed to introduce still more novel customs.
The weed once inhaled, the habit once acquired, its seductions would not allow it to be easily
laid aside; and we accordingly find that royal satire, public odium, and ruinous cost were
alike inadequate to restrain its rapidly increasing consumption. Somewhere about the year 1600
or 1601 tobacco was carried to the East, and introduced among the Turks and Persians,--it is
not known by whom: the devotion of modern Mussulmans might reasonably ascribe it to Allah himself.
It seems almost incredible that the Oriental type of life and character could have existed
without tobacco. The pipe seems as inseparable as the Koran from the follower of Mahomet.

Barely three centuries ago, then, the first seeds of the Nicotiana tabacum germinated in European
soil: now, who shall count the harvests? Less than three centuries ago, Raleigh attracted a
crowd by sitting smoking at his door: now, the humblest bog-trotter of Ireland must be poor
indeed who cannot own or borrow a pipe. A little more than a century and a half ago, the import
into Great Britain was only one hundred and twenty thousand pounds, and part of that was reëxported:
now, the imports reach thirty million pounds, and furnish to government a revenue of twenty
millions of dollars,--being an annual tax of three shillings four pence on every soul in the
United Kingdom. Nor is the case of England an exceptional one. The tobacco-zone girdles the
globe. From the equator, through fifty degrees of latitude, it grows and is consumed on every
continent. On every sea it is carried and used by the mariners of every nation. Its incense
rises in every clime, as from one vast altar dedicated to its worship,--before which ancient
holocausts, the smoke of burnt-offerings in the old Jewish rites, the censers of the Church,
and the joss-sticks of the East, must "pale their ineffectual fires." All classes, all ages,
in all climates, and in some countries both sexes, use tobacco to dispel heat, to resist cold,
to soothe to reverie, or to arouse the brain, according to their national habitations, peculiarities,
or habits.

This is not the language of hyperbole. With a partial exception in favor of the hop, tobacco
is the sole recognized narcotic of civilization. Opium and hemp, if indulged in, are concealed,
by the Western nations: public opinion, public morality, are at war with them. Not so with
tobacco, which the majority of civilized men use, and the minority rather deprecate than denounce.
We shall avail ourselves of some statistics and computations, which we find ready-calculated,
at various sources, to support these assertions. The following are the amounts of tobacco consumed
per head in various countries:--

"In Great Britain, 17 ounces per head; in France, 18 1/2 ounces,--three-eighths of this quantity
being used in the form of snuff; in Denmark, 70 ounces (4 1/2 lbs.) per head; and in Belgium,
73 1/2 ounces per head;--in New South Wales, where there are no duties, by official returns,
14 pounds per head." We doubt if these quantities much exceed the European average, particularly
of Germany and Turkey in Europe. "In some of the States of North America the proportion is
much larger, while among Eastern nations, where there are no duties, it is believed to be greater
still."

The average for the whole human race of one thousand millions has been reasonably set at seventy
ounces per head; which gives a total produce and consumption of tobacco of two millions of
tons, or 4,480,000,000 of pounds! "At eight hundred pounds an acre, this would require five
and a half million acres of rich land to be kept constantly under tobacco-cultivation."

"The whole amount of wheat consumed by the inhabitants of Great Britain weighs only four and
one-third million tons." The reader can draw his own inferences.

The United States are among the largest producers of tobacco, furnishing one-twentieth of the
estimated production of the whole world. According to the last census, we raised in 1850 about
two hundred million pounds. All the States, with five exceptions,--and two of these are Utah
and Minnesota,--shared, in various degrees, in the growth of this great staple. Confining our
attention to those which raised a million of pounds and upwards, we find Connecticut and Indiana
cited at one million each; Ohio and North Carolina, at ten to twelve millions; Missouri, Tennessee,
and Maryland, from seventeen to twenty-one millions; Kentucky and Virginia, about fifty-six
million pounds.

Of this gross two hundred million pounds, we export one hundred and twenty-two millions, leaving
about seventy-eight millions for home consumption.

Not satisfied with the quality of this modest amount, we import also, from Cuba, Turkey, Germany,
etc., about four million pounds, in Havana and Manila cigars and Turkish and German manufactured
smoking-tobacco. Thus we increase the total of our consumption to eighty-two million pounds,
which gives about three pounds eight ounces to every inhabitant of the United States, against
seventeen ounces in England, and eighteen ounces in France. From 1840 to 1850, the consumption
in the United States, per head, increased from two pounds and half an ounce to three pounds
eight ounces. Here, we buy our tobacco at a fair profit to the producer. In most of the countries
of Europe it is either subject to a high tax, or made a government monopoly, both as regards
its cultivation, and its manufacture and sale. France consumes about forty-one million pounds,
and the imperial exchequer is thereby enriched eighty-six million francs per annum. Not only
is the poor man thus obliged to pay an excessive price, but the tobacco furnished him is of
a much inferior quality to ours. "Petit-caporal" smoking-tobacco, the delight of the middling
classes of Paris, hardly suits an American's taste. In Italy more than one pubblicano has enriched
himself and bought nobility by farming the public revenues from tobacco and salt. In Austria
the cigars are detestable, though Hungary grows good tobacco, and its Turkish border furnishes
some of the meerschaum clay. German smoking-tobaccoes are favorites with students here, but
owe their excellence to their mode of manufacture.

Tobacco, according to some authorities, holds the next place to salt, as the article most universally
and largely used by man,--we mean, of course, apart from cereals and meats. It is unquestionably
the widest-used narcotic. Opium takes the second rank, and hemp the third; but the opium--and
hashish-eaters usually add the free smoking of tobacco to their other indulgences.

From these great columns of consumption we may logically deduce two prime points for our argument.

1st. That an article so widely used must possess some peculiar quality producing a desirable
effect.

2d. That an article so widely used cannot produce any marked deleterious effect.

For it must meet some instinctive craving of the human being,--as bread and salt meet his absolute
needs,--to be so widely sought after and consumed. Fashion does not rule this habit, but it
is equally grateful to the savage and the sage. And it cannot be so ruinous to body and mind
as some reformers assert; otherwise, in the natural progress of causes and effects, whole nations
must have already been extinguished under its use. Many mighty nations have used it for centuries,
and show no aggregated deterioration from its employment. Individual exceptions exist in every
community. They arise either from idiosyncrasy or from excess, and they have no weight in the
argument.

Now, what are these qualities and these effects? We can best answer the first part of the question
by a quotation.

"In ministering fully to his natural wants and cravings, man passes through three successive
stages.

"First, the necessities of his material nature are provided for. Beef and bread represent the
means by which, in every country, this end is attained. And among the numerous forms of animal
and vegetable food a wonderful similarity of chemical composition prevails.

"Second, he seeks to assuage the cares of his mind, and to banish uneasy reflections. Fermented
liquors are the agents by which this is effected." [They are variously produced by every people,
and the active principle is in all the same, namely, Alcohol.]

"Third, he desires to multiply his enjoyments, intellectual and animal, and for the time to
exalt them. This he attains by the aid of narcotics. And of these narcotics, again, it is remarkable
that almost every country or tribe has its own, either aboriginal or imported; so that the
universal instinct of the race has led, somehow or other, to the universal supply of this want
or craving also."

These narcotics are Opium, Hemp, the Betel, Coca, Thorn-Apple, Siberian Fungus, Hops, Lettuce,
Tobacco. The active principles vary in each, thus differing from foods and stimulants. Our
business is now to inquire into the chemical constituents of tobacco.

The leaves of this plant owe their properties to certain invariable active principles, which
chemistry has enabled us to separate from those ingredients which are either inert or common
to it and other forms of vegetation. They are two in number,--a volatile alkali, and a volatile
oil, called nicotin and nicotianin, respectively. A third powerful constituent is developed
by combustion, which is named the empyreumatic oil.

Starch, gum, albumen, resin, lignin, extractive, and organic acids exist in tobacco, as they
do, in varying proportions, in other plants. But the herb under consideration contains a relatively
larger proportion of inorganic salts, as those of lime, potassa, and ammonia,--and especially
of highly nitrogenized substances; which explains why tobacco is so exhausting a crop to the
soil, and why ashes are among its best fertilizers.

The organic base, nicotin, (or nicotia, as some chemists prefer to call it,) exists in tobacco
combined with an acid in excess, and in this state is not volatile. As obtained by distillation
with caustic soda, and afterwards treated with sulphuric acid, etc., it is a colorless fluid,
volatilizable, inflammable, of little smell when cold, but of an exceedingly acrid, burning
taste, and alkaline. Nicotia contains a much larger proportion of nitrogen than most of the
other organic alkalies. In its action on the animal system it is one of the most virulent poisons
known. It exists in varying, though small proportion, in all species of tobacco. Those called
mild, and most esteemed, seem to contain the least. Thus, according to Orfila, Havana tobacco
yields two per cent of the alkaloid, and Virginia nearly seven per cent. In the rankest varieties
it rarely exceeds eight parts to the hundred. The same toxicologist says that it has the remarkable
property of resisting decomposition in the decaying tissues of the body, and he detected it
in the bodies of animals destroyed by it, several months after their death. In this particular
it resembles arsenic.

Nicotianin, or the volatile oil, is probably the odorous principle of tobacco. According to
some, it does not exist in the fresh leaves, but is generated in the drying process. When obtained
by distillation, a pound of leaves will yield only two grains; it is therefore in a much smaller
proportion than the alkaloid, forming only one half of one per cent. It is a fatty substance,
having the odor of tobacco-smoke, and a bitter taste. Applied to the nose, it occasions sneezing,
and taken internally, giddiness and nausea. It is therefore one of the active constituents
of tobacco, though to a much less degree than nicotin itself. For while Hermstadt swallowed
a grain of nicotianin with impunity, the vapor of pure nicotin is so irritating that it is
difficult to breathe in a room in which a single drop has been evaporated.

When distilled in a retort, at a temperature above that of boiling water, or burned, as we
burn it in a pipe, tobacco affords its third poison, the empyreumatic oil. This is acrid, of
a dark brown color, and having a smell as of an old pipe, in the pores of which, particularly
of meerschaum clay, it may be found. It is also narcotic and very poisonous, one drop killing
reptiles, as if by an electric shock: in this mode of action it is like prussic acid. But this
empyreumatic oil consists of two substances; for, if it be washed with acetic acid, it loses
its poisonous quality. It contains, therefore, a harmless oil, and a poisonous alkaline substance,
which the acetic acid combines with and removes. It has been shown to contain the alkaloid
nicotia, and this is probably its only active component.

Assuming, therefore, that nicotianin, from its feebler action and small amount, is not a very
efficient principle in producing the narcotic effects of tobacco, and that the empyreumatic
oil consists only of fatty matters holding the alkali in solution, we are forced to believe
that the only constituent worthy of much attention, as the very soul and essence of the plant,
is the organic base, nicotin, or nicotia.

It is probable that the tobacco-chewer, by putting fifty grains of the "Solace," "Honey-Dew,"
or "Cavendish" into his mouth for the purpose of mastication, introduces at the same time from
one to four grains of nicotin with it, according to the quality of the tobacco he uses. It
is not probable that anything like this amount is absorbed into the system. Nature protects
itself by salivation. It is possible, that, in smoking one hundred grains of tobacco, there
may be drawn into the mouth two grains or more of the same poison; "for, as nicotin volatilizes
at a temperature below that of burning tobacco, it is constantly present in the smoke." It
is not probable that here, again, so much is absorbed.

But we will return to this question of the relative effects of chewing, cigar- and pipe-smoking,
and snuff-taking, presently. For we suppose that the anxious mother, if she has followed us
so far, is by this time in considerable alarm at this wholesale poisoning.

Poisons are to be judged by their effects; for this is the only means we have of knowing them
to be such. And if a poison is in common use, we must embrace all the results of such use in
a perfect generalization before we can decide impartially. We do not hesitate to eat peaches,
though we know they owe much of their peculiar flavor to prussic acid. It is but fair to apply
an equally large generalization to tobacco. Chemistry can concentrate the sapid and odorous
elements of the peach and the bitter almond into a transparent fluid, of which the smell shall
be vertiginous and the taste death. But chemistry is often misunderstood, in two ways: in the
one case, by the incredulity of total ignorance; in the other, by the overcredulity of imperfect
knowledge. That poor woman who murdered her husband by arsenic not long since was an instance
of the first. She laughed to scorn the idea that the chemists could discover anything in the
ejected contents of the stomach of her victim, which she voluntarily left in their way. She
could not conceive that the scattered crystals of the fatal powder might be gathered into a
metallic mirror, the first glance at which would reflect her guilt.

They who gape, horror-struck, at the endless revelations of chemistry, without giving reason
time to act, err in the second manner. Led away by the brilliant hues and wonderful transformations
of the laboratory, they forget the size of the world outside, in which these changes are enacted,
and the quiet way in which Nature works. The breath of chlorine is deadly, but we daily eat
it in safety, wrapped in its poison-proof envelope of sodium, as common salt. Carbonic acid
is among the gases most hostile to man, but he drinks it in soda-water or Champagne with impunity.
So we cannot explain how a poison will act, if introduced into the body in the diluted form
in which Nature offers it, and there subjected to the complicated chemico-vital processes which
constitute life.

In the alembic of the chemist we may learn analysis, and from it infer, but not imitate, save
in a few instances, the synthesis of Nature. Changes in the arrangement of atoms, without one
particle altered that we can discover, may make all the difference between starch and sugar.
By an obscure change, which we call fermentation, these may become alcohol, the great stimulant
of the world. By subtracting one atom of water from its elements we change this to ether, the
new-found lethe of pain. As from the inexhaustible bottle of the magician, the chemist can
furnish us from the same two elements air or aquafortis. We may be pardoned these familiar
examples to prove that we must not judge of things by their palpable qualities, when concentrated
or in the gross. That fiery demon, nitric acid, is hid, harmless in its imperceptible subdivision,
in the dew on every flower.

From all this we conclude that the evil effects of tobacco are to be determined by their proved
physiological effects; and also that we must aid our decision by a survey of its general asserted
effects. In treating of these effects, we shall speak, first, of what is known; second, of
what its opponents assert; and, third, of what we claim as the results of its use.

What is absolutely known is very little. We see occasional instances of declining health; we
learn that the sufferers smoke or chew, and we are very apt to ascribe all their maladies to
tobacco. So far as we are aware, the most notorious organic lesion which has been supposed
due to this practice is a peculiar form of cancer of the lip, where the pipe, and particularly
the clay pipe, has pressed upon the part. But more ample statistics have disproved this theory.

We have as yet become acquainted with no satisfactory series of experiments upon tobacco analogous
to those which have been made of some articles of food.

The opponents of tobacco, upon whom we consider the burden of proof to rest, in the absence
of any marked ill effects palpable in so large a consumption of the herb, are thus reduced
to generalities.

Tobacco is said to produce derangement of the digestion, and of the regular, steady action
of the nervous system. These effects must be in a measure connected; but one distinct effect
of tobacco is claimed, upon the secretions of the mouth, with which it comes into direct contact.
It is said to cause a waste and a deterioration of the saliva. Let us examine this first.

The waste of saliva in young smokers and in immoderate chewers we admit. The amount secreted
by a healthy man has been variously estimated at from one and a half to three pounds per diem.
And it certainly seems as if the whole of this was to be found upon the vile floors of cars,
hotels, and steamboats. The quantity secreted varies much with circumstances; but experiments
prove the quality to be not affected by the amount.

To show how the deterioration of this fluid may affect digestion, we must inquire into its
normal physiological constitution and uses. Its uses are of two kinds: to moisten the food,
and to convert starch into sugar. The larger glands fulfil the former; the smaller, mostly,
the latter office. Almost any substance held in the mouth provokes the flow of saliva by mechanical
irritation. Mental causes influence it; for the thought of food will "make the mouth water,"
as well as its presence within the lips. No one who has tried to eat unmoistened food, when
thirsty, will dispute its uses as a solvent. Tobacco seems to be a direct stimulant to the
salivary apparatus. Habit blunts this effect only to a limited extent. The old smoker has usually
some increase of this secretion, although he does not expectorate. But if he does not waste
this product, he swallows it, it is said, in a state unfit to promote digestion. The saliva
owes its peculiarity to one of its components, called ptyalin. And this element possesses the
remarkable power of converting starch into sugar, which is the first step in its digestion.
Though many azotized substances in a state of decomposition exert a similar agency, yet it
is possessed by ptyalin in a much greater degree. The gastric juice has probably no action
on farinaceous substances. And it has been proved by experiments, that food moistened with
water digests more slowly than when mixed with the saliva.

More than this, the conversion of starch into sugar has been shown to be positively retarded
in the stomach by the acidity of the gastric secretions. Only after the azotized food has been
somewhat disintegrated by the action of the gastric juice, and the fluids again rendered alkaline
by the presence of saliva, swallowed in small quantities for a considerable time after eating,
does the saccharifying process go on with normal rapidity and vigor.

Now starch is the great element, in all farinaceous articles, which is adapted to supply us
with calorifacient food. "In its original condition, either raw or when broken up by boiling,
it does not appear that starch is capable of being absorbed by the alimentary canal. By its
conversion into sugar it can alone become a useful aliment." This is effected almost instantaneously
by the saliva in the mouth, and at a slower rate in the stomach.

Obviously, then, if the use of tobacco interferes with the normal action of the saliva, and
if the digestion of starch ends in the stomach, here is the strong point in the argument of
the opponents of tobacco. We should wonder at the discrepancy between physiology and facts,
theory and the evidence of our senses and daily experience among the world of smokers, and
be ready to renounce either science or "the weed." Fortunately for our peace of mind and for
our respect for physiology, the first point of the proposition is not satisfactorily proved,
and the second is untrue. We are not certain that nicotin ruins ptyalin; we are certain that
the functions of other organs are vicarious of those of the salivary glands.

We say that it is not satisfactorily proved that tobacco impairs the sugar-making function
of the saliva. At least, we have never seen the proof from recorded experiments. Such may exist,
but we have met only with loose assertions to this effect, of a similar nature to those hygienic
dicta which we find bandied about in the would-be-physiological popular journals, which are
so plentiful in this country, and which may be styled the "yellow-cover" literature of science.

We acknowledge this to be the weak point in our armor, and are open to further light. Yet more,
for the sake of hypothesis, we will assume it proved. What follows? Are we to get no more sugar
while we smoke? By no means. Hard by the stomach lies the pancreas, an organ so similar in
structure to the salivary glands, that even so minute an observer as Kölliker does not think
it requisite to give it a separate description. Its secretion, which is poured into the second
stomach, contains a ferment analogous to that of the saliva, and amounts probably to about
seven ounces a day. The food, on leaving the stomach, is next subjected to its influence, together
with that of the bile. It helps digest fatty matters by its emulsive powers; it has been more
recently supposed to form a sort of peptone with nitrogenized articles also; but, what is more
to our purpose, it turns starch into sugar even more quickly than the saliva itself. And even
if the reformers were to beat us from this stronghold, by proving that tobacco impaired the
saccharifying power of this organ also, we should still find the mixed fluids supplied by the
smaller, but very numerous glands of the intestines, sufficient to accomplish the requisite
modification of starch, though more slowly and to a less degree.

We come now to the second count in the indictment,--that tobacco injuriously affects the nervous
system, and through it the digestion. The accusation is here more vague and indefinite, and
the answer also is less susceptible of proof. Both sides must avail themselves of circumstantial,
rather than direct evidence.

That digestion is in direct dependence upon the nervous system, and that even transitory or
emotional states of the latter affect the former, there can be no doubt. It is so familiar
a fact, that instances need hardly be cited to prove it. Hence we are told, that tobacco, by
deranging the one, disorders the other,--that nervousness, or morbid irritability of the nerves,
palpitations and tremulousness, are soon followed by emaciation and dyspepsia, or more or less
inability to digest.

We conceive Prout, an eminent authority, to be near the truth, when he says of tobacco, "The
strong and healthy suffer comparatively little, while the weak and predisposed to disease fall
victims to its poisonous operation." The hod-carrier traversing the walls of lofty buildings,
and the sailor swinging on the yard-arm, are not subject to nervousness, though they smoke
and chew; nor are they prone to dyspepsia, unless from excesses of another kind.

It has not been shown that tobacco either hastens or delays the metamorphosis of tissue,--that
it drains the system by waste, or clogs it by retarding the natural excretions. We must turn,
then, to its direct influence upon the nervous system to convince ourselves of its ill effects,
if such exist.

Nor has it been proved that the nervous influence is affected in such a way as directly to
impair the innervation of the organic functions, which derive their chief impulse to action
from the scattered ganglia of the sympathetic system. Opium, the most powerful narcotic, benumbs
the brain into sleep; produces a corresponding reaction, on awakening; shuts up the secretions,
except that of the skin, and thus deranges the alimentary functions. The decriers of tobacco
will, we conceive, be unable to show that it produces such effects.

The reformers are reduced, then, to the vague generality, that smoking and chewing "affect
the nerves."

Students, men of sedentary, professional habits, persons of a very nervous temperament, or
those subject to much excitement in business and politics, sometimes show debility and languor,
or agitation and nervousness, while they smoke and chew. Are there no other causes at work,
sufficient in themselves to produce these effects? Are want of exercise, want of air, want
of rest, and want of inherited vigor to be eliminated from the estimate, while tobacco is made
the scape-goat of all their troubles?

Climate, and the various influences affecting any race which has migrated after a stationary
residence of generations to a new country extending under different parallels of latitude,
have been reasonably accused of rendering us a nervous people. It is not so reasonable to charge
one habit with being the sole cause of this, although we should be more prudent in not following
it to excess. The larger consumption of tobacco here is due both to the cheapness of the product
and to the wealth of the consumer. But it does not follow that we are more subjected to its
narcotic influences because we use the best varieties of the weed. On the contrary, the poor
and rank tobaccoes, grown under a northern sky, are the richest in nicotin.

But it will be better to continue the argument about its effects upon the nervous system in
connection with the assertions of the reformers. The following is a list, by no means complete,
of these asserted ill effects from its use.

Tobacco is said to cause softening of the brain,--dimness of vision,--("the Germans smoke;
the Germans are a spectacled nation!" post hoc, ergo propter hoc? the laborious intellectual
habits of this people, and their trying "text," are considered of no account,)--cancer of the
stomach,--disease of the liver,--dyspepsia,--enfeebled nutrition, and consequent emaciation,--dryness
of the mouth,--"the clergyman's sore-throat" and loss of voice,--irritability of the nervous
system,--tremulousness,--palpitation and paralysis,--and, among the moral ills, loss of energy,
idleness, drunkenness. A fearful catalogue, which would dedicate the tabatière to Pandora,
were it true.

Hygienic reformers are usually unequalled in imaginary horrors, except by the charlatans who
vend panaceas.

We have no reasons for believing that tobacco causes softening of the brain equal in plausibility
to those which ascribe it to prolonged and excessive mental effort. The statistics of disease
prove cancers of other organs to be twice as frequent, among females, as cancer of the stomach
is among males; and an eminent etiologist places narcotics among the least proved causes of
this disease. A hot climate, abuse of alcohol, a sedentary life, and sluggish digestion happen,
rather curiously, to be very frequent concomitants, if not causes, of disease of the liver.
Dyspepsia haunts both sexes, and, we venture to assert, though we cannot bring figures to prove
it, is as frequent among those who do not use tobacco as among those who do. We are ready to
concede that excessive chewing and smoking, particularly if accompanied by large expectoration,
may impair nutrition and cause emaciation: that the mass of mankind eat and digest and live,
as well as use "the weed," is proof that its moderate employment is not ordinarily followed
by this result. Dryness of the mouth follows expectoration as a matter of course; but the salivation
excited in an old smoker by tobacco is very moderate, and not succeeded by thirst, unless the
smoke be inhaled too rapidly and at too high a temperature.

We come next to a very tender point with reformers, the laryngeal cough and failing voice of
the reverend clergy. The later generations of ministers of this vicinity, as a body, have abandoned
tobacco, and yet the evil has not diminished. An eminent divine of our acquaintance, who does
not smoke daily, always finds a cigar relieve a trifling bronchitis, to which he is occasionally
subject The curious will find in the "Medical Journal" of this city, for 1839, that quite as
much can be said on one side as on the other of this subject.

The minor, rarely the graver affections of the nervous system, do follow the use of tobacco
in excess. We admit this willingly; but we deny these effects to its moderate use by persons
of ordinary health and of no peculiar idiosyncrasy. Numerous cases of paralysis among tobacco-takers
in France were traced to the lead in which the preparation was enveloped.

We pass next to what we claim as the effects of moderate tobacco-using, and will take first
the evidence of the toxicologists. Both Pereira and Christison agree that "no well-ascertained
ill effects have been shown to result from the habitual practice of smoking." Beck, a modern
authority, says, "Common observation settles the question, that the moderate and daily use
of tobacco does not prove injurious. This is a general rule": and he adds, that exceptions
necessarily exist, etc.

The repugnance and nausea which greet the smoker, in his first attempts to use tobacco, are
not a stronger argument against it than the fact that the system so soon becomes habituated
to these effects is a proof of its essential innocuousness.

Certainly the love of tobacco is not an instinctive appetite, like that for nitrogen and carbon
in the form of food. Man was not born with a cigar in his mouth, and it is not certain that
the Nicotiana tabacum flourished in the Garden of Eden. But history proves the existence of
an instinct among all races--call it depraved, if you will, the fact remains--leading them
to employ narcotics. And narcotics all nations have sought and found. We venture to affirm
that tobacco is harmless as any. The betel and the hop can alone compare with it in this respect;
and the hop is not a narcotic which satisfies alone; others are used with it. Opium and Indian
hemp are not to be mentioned in comparison; while coca, in excess, is much more hurtful.

Tobacco may more properly be called a sedative than a narcotic. Opium, the type of the latter
class, is in its primary action excitant, but secondarily narcotic. The opium-eaters are familiar
with this, and learn by experience to regulate the dose so as to prolong the first and shorten
the second effects, as much as possible.

Tobacco, on the other hand, is primarily sedative and relaxing. A high authority says of its
physiological action:--

"First, That its greater and first effect is to assuage and allay and soothe the system in general.

"Second, That its lesser and second, or after effect, is to excite and invigorate, and at the
same time give steadiness and fixity to the powers of thought."

Either of these effects will predominate, we conceive, according to the intellectual state
and capacity of the individual, as well as in accordance with the amount used.

The dreamy Oriental is sunk into deeper reverie under the influence of tobacco, and his happiness
while smoking seems to consist in thinking of nothing. The studious German, on the contrary,
"thinks and dreams, and dreams and thinks, alternately; but while his body is soothed and stilled,
his mind is ever awake."

This latter description resembles, to compare small things with great, the effects of opium,
as detailed by De Quincey.

"In habitual smokers," says Pereira, "the practice, when moderately indulged, produces that
remarkably soothing and tranquillizing effect on the mind which has caused it to be so much
admired and adopted by all classes of society."

The pleasure derived from tobacco is very hard to define, since it is negative rather than
positive, and to be estimated more by what it prevents than by what it produces. It relieves
the little vexations and cares of life, soothes the harassed mind, and promotes quiet reflection.
This it does most of all when used sparingly and after labor. But if incessantly consumed,
it keeps up a constant, but mild cerebral exhilaration. The mind acts more promptly and more
continuously under its use. We think any tobacco-consumer will bear us out in this definition
of its varying effects.

After a full meal, if it does not help, it at least hides digestion. "It settles one's dinner,"
as the saying is, and gives that feeling of quiet, luxurious bien-aise which would probably
exist naturally in a state of primeval health. It promotes, with most persons, the peristaltic
movements of the alimentary passages by its relaxing properties.

Smoking is eminently social, and favors domestic habits. And in this way, we contend, it prevents
drinking, rather than leads to it. Many still associate the cigar with the bar-room. This notion
should have become obsolete ere this, for it has an extremely limited foundation in fact. Bachelors
and would-be-manly boys are not the only consumers of tobacco, though they are the best patrons
of the bar. The poor man's pipe retains him by his own fireside, as well as softens his domestic
asperities.

Excess in tobacco, like excess in any other material good meant for moderate use, is followed
by evil effects, more or less quickly, according to the constitution and temperament of the
abuser. The lymphatic and obese can smoke more than the sanguine and nervous, with impunity.
How much constitutes excess varies with each individual. Manufacturers of tobacco do not appear
to suffer. Christison states, as the result of the researches of MM. Parent-Duchatelet and
D'Arcet among four thousand workmen in the tobacco-manufactories of France, that they found
no evidence of its being unwholesome. Moderate tobacco-users attain longevity equal to that
of any other class in the community.

We will cite only the following brief statistics from an old physician of a neighboring town.
In looking over the list of the oldest men, dead or alive, within his circle of acquaintance,
he finds a total of 67 men, from 73 to 93 years of age. Their average age is 78 and a fraction.
Of these 67, 54 were smokers or chewers; 9 only, non-consumers of tobacco; and 4 were doubtful,
or not ascertained. About nine-elevenths smoked or chewed. The compiler quaintly adds, "How
much longer these men might have lived without tobacco, it is impossible to determine."

The tobacco-leaf is consumed by man usually in three ways: by smoking, snuffing, or chewing.
The first is the most common; the last is the most disagreeable.

Tobacco is smoked in the East Indies, China, and Siam; in Turkey and Persia; over Europe generally;
and in North and South America. Cigars are preferred in the East and West Indies, Spain, England,
and America. China, Turkey, Persia, and Germany worship the pipe. In Europe the pipe is patronized
on account of its cheapness. Turks and Persians use the mildest forms of pipe-smoking, choosing
pipes with long, flexible stems, and having the smoke cooled and purified by passing through
water. The Germans prefer the porous meerschaum,--the Canadians, the common clay. Women smoke
habitually in China, the East and West Indies, and to a less extent in South America, Spain,
and France.

We have no fears that any reasoning of ours would induce the other sex to use tobacco. The
ladies set too just a value on the precious commodity of their charms for that. There is little
danger that they would do anything which might render them disagreeable. The practice of snuff-taking
is about the only form they patronize, and that to a slight extent.

France is the home of snuff. A large proportion of all the tobacco consumed there is used in
this form. The practice prevails to a large extent also in Iceland and Scotland. The Icelander
uses a small horn, like a powder-horn, to hold his snuff. Inserting the smaller end into the
nostril, he elevates the other, and thus conveys the pungent powder directly to the part. The
more delicate Highlander carries the snuff to his nose on a little shovel. This can be surpassed
only by the habit of "dipping," peculiar to some women of the United States, and whose details
will not bear description.

Chewing prevails par excellence in our own country, and among the sailors of most nations,--to
some extent also in Switzerland, Iceland, and among the Northern races. It is the safest and
most convenient form at sea.

By smoking, each of the three active ingredients of tobacco is rendered capable of absorption.
The empyreumatic oil is produced by combustion. The pipe retains this and a portion of the
nicotin in its pores. The cigar, alone, conveys all the essential elements into the system.

Liebig once asserted that cigar-smoking was prejudicial from the amount of gaseous carbon inhaled.
We cannot believe this. The heat of cigar-smoke may have some influence on the teeth; and,
on the whole, the long pipe, with a porous bowl, is probably the best way of using tobacco
in a state of ignition.

By repeated fermentations in preparing snuff, much of the nicotin is evaporated and lost. Yet
snuff-takers impair the sense of smell, and ruin the voice, by clogging up the passages with
the finer particles of the powder. The functions of the labyrinthine caverns of the nose and
forehead, and of the delicate osseous laminae which constitute the sounding-boards of vocalization,
are thus destroyed.

Chewing is the most constant, as it is the nastiest habit. The old chewer, safe in the blunted
irritability of the salivary glands, can continue his practice all night, if he be so infatuated,
without inconvenience. In masticating tobacco, nicotin and nicotianin are rolled about in the
mouth with the quid, but are not probably so quickly absorbed as when in the gaseous state.
Yet chewers are the greatest spitters, and have a characteristic drooping of the angle of the
lower lip, which points to loss of power in the leavator muscles.

Latakia, Shiraz, Manila, Cuba, Virginia, and Maryland produce the most valuable tobaccoes.
Though peculiar soils and dressings may impart a greater aroma and richness to the plant, by
the variations in the quantity of nicotianin, as compared with the other organic elements,
yet we are inclined to think that the diminished proportion of nicotin in the best varieties
in the cause of their superior flavor to the rank Northern tobaccoes, and that it is mainly
because they are milder that they are most esteemed. So, too, the cigar improves with age,
because a certain amount of nicotin evaporates and escapes. Taste in cigars varies, however,
from the Austrian government article, a very rank "long-nine," with a straw running through
the centre to improve its suction, to the Cuban cigarrito, whose ethereal proportions three
whiffs will exhaust.

The manufacture of smoking-tobaccoes is as much and art in Germany as getting up a fancy brand
of cigars is here; and the medical philosopher of that country will gravely debate whether
"Kanaster" or "Varinas" be best suited for certain forms of convalescence; tobacco being almost
as indispensable as gruel, in returning health. We think the light pipe-smoker will find a
combination of German and Turkish smoking-tobaccoes a happy thought. The old smoker may secure
the best union of delicacy and strength in the Virginia "natural leaf."

Among the eight or ten species of the tobacco-plant now recognized by botanists, the Nicotiana
tabacum and the Nicotiana rustica hold the chief place. Numerous varieties of each of these,
however, are named and exist.

We condense from De Bow's "Industrial Resources of the South and West" a brief account of tobacco-culture
in this country. "The tobacco is best sown from the 10th to the 20th of March, and a rich loam
is the most favorable soil. The plants are dressed with a mixture of ashes, plaster, soot,
salt, sulphur, soil, and manure." After they are transplanted, we are told that "the soil best
adapted to the growth of tobacco is a light, friable one, or what is commonly called a sandy
loam; not too flat, but rolling, undulating land." Long processes of hand-weeding must be gone
through, and equal parts of plaster and ashes are put on each plant. "Worms are the worst enemy,"
and can be effectually destroyed only by hand. "When the plant begins to yellow, it is time
to put it away; and it is cut off close to the ground." After wilting a little on the ground,
it is dried on sticks, by one of the three processes called "pegging, spearing, and splitting."
"When dry, the leaves are stripped off and tied in bundles of one fifth or sixth of a pound
each. It is sorted into three or four qualities, as Yellow, Bright, Dull, etc." Next it is
"bulked," or put into bundles, and these again dried, and afterwards "conditioned," and packed
in hogsheads weighing from six hundred to a thousand pounds each.

It would be too long to detail the processes of cigar- and snuff-making, the latter of which
is quite complicated.

We were happy to learn from the fearful work of Hassall on "Food and its Adulterations," that
tobacco was one of the articles least tampered with; and particularly that there was no opium
in cheroots, but nothing more harmful than hay and paper. He ascribes this immunity mainly
to the vigilance of the excisemen. But we have recently seen a work on the adulteration of
tobacco, whose microscopic plates brought back our former misgivings. Molasses is a very common
agent used to give color and render it toothsome. Various vegetable leaves, as the rhubarb,
beech, walnut, and mullein, as well as the less delectable bran, yellow ochre, and hellebore,
in snuff, are also sometimes used to defraud. Saltpetre is often sprinkled on, in making cigars,
to improve their burning.

The Indians mixed tobacco in their pipes with fragrant herbs. Cascarilla bark is a favorite
with some smokers; it is a simple aromatic and tonic, but, when smoked, is said sometimes to
occasion vertigo and intoxication.

We have before observed that tobacco is a very exhausting crop to the soil. The worn-out tobacco-plantations
of the South are sufficient practical proof of this, while it is also readily explained by
chemistry. The leaves of tobacco are among the richest in incombustible ash, yielding, when
burned, from 19 to 28 per cent. of inorganic substance. This forms the abundant ashes of tobacco-pipes
and of cigars. All this has been derived from the soil where it was raised, and it is of a
nature very necessary to vegetation, and not very abundant in the most fertile lands. "Every
ton of dried tobacco-leaves carries off from four to five hundred-weight of this mineral matter,--as
much as is contained in fourteen tons of the grain of wheat." It follows that scientific agriculture
can alone restore this waste to the tobacco-plantation.

There is one other aspect of this great subject, which is almost peculiar to New England, the
home of reform. Certain Puritanical pessimists have argued that the use of tobacco is immoral.
There are few, except our own sober people, who would admit this question at all. We would
treat this prejudice with the respect due to all sincere reforms. And we have attempted to
show, that, since all races have used and will use narcotics, we had better yield a little,
lest more be taken, and concede them tobacco, which is more harmless than many that are largely
consumed. We have proved to our own satisfaction, and we hope to theirs, that tobacco in moderation
neither affects the health nor shortens life; that it does not create an appetite for stimulants,
but rather supplies their place; and that it favors sociality and domestic habits more than
the reverse.

If the formation of any habit be objected to, we reply, that this is a natural tendency of
man, that things become less prejudicial by repetition, and that a high hygienic authority
advises us "to be regular even in our vices."

As we began in a light, we close in a more sober vein, apologists for tobacco, rather than
strongly advocating either side. On one point we are sure that we shall agree with the ladies,
and that is in a sincere denunciation of the habit of smoking at a tender age. And although,
in accordance with the tendency of the times, the school-boy whom we caught attached to a "long-nine"
would consistently reply, "Civis Americanus sum!" we shall persist in claiming the censorship
of age over those on whose chins the callow down of adolescence is yet ungrown.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE DONE INTO FRENCH.

In the first place, it really was an immense success, and Shylock, or Sheeloque, as they dubbed
him, was called before the curtain seven times, and in most appropriate humility nearly laid
his nose on his insteps as he bowed, and quite showed his spine.

It certainly was like Shakspeare in this, that it had five acts; but when I have made that
concession, and admitted that Sheeloque was Le Juif de Venise, I think I have named all the
cardinal points of similarity in the "Merchant of Venice" and "Le Juif" of that same unwholesome
place. To be sure, there is a suspicion of le devin Williams, as they will call him, continually
cropping out; but a conscientious man would not swear to one line of it, and I do not think
Shakspeare would be justified in suing the French author for compensation under the National
Copyright-Act. I speak of Shakspeare as existing, because it is my belief he does, in a manner
so to speak.

I have intimated that "Le Juif" has five acts; but I have not yet committed myself to the assertion
that he was in seven tableaux, and possessed a prologue.

It is now my pleasing duty to force you through the five acts, and the one prologue, and the
seven tableaux,--every one of them.

This prologue is divided as to the theatre into two parts: to left, Sheeloque's domestic interior,--to
right, a practicable canal. In the very first line out crops Shylock's love of good bargains;
and I give the reader my word, the little Frenchmen saw that this was characteristic, and applauded
vehemently. "Bon," said I,--"if they applaud the first line, what will they do with the last act?"

It need not be said that Shylock dabbles in those bills which Venetian swells of the fifteenth
century, in common with those of a later age and more western land, will manipulate, in spite
of all the political economy from Confucius down to Mr. Mill; and in this particular instance
and prologue the names of the improvidents are Leone and Ubaldo, neither of which, if my memory
serve me, is Shakspearian. These gentlemen considerably shake my traditional respect for sixteenth-century
Venetian Aristos, for they insult that Jew till I wonder where a count and a duke have learnt
such language: but they serve a purpose; they trot Shylock out, so to speak, and give our author
an opportunity of doing his best with A 1. Shylock's great speech. Here is the apostrophe:--

"But yesterday--no later past than yesterday--thou didst bid thy mistress call at me from her
balcony; thy servants by thy will did cast mud on me, and thy hounds sped snapping after me,'"--whereby
we may infer they went hunting in Venice, in the fifteenth century. It must have been rather
dangerous running. Nor could the Venetian nobles of that good old time have been very proper;
for Leone and Ubaldo justify themselves by saying they were drunk.

It is after this pretty excuse that Shylock has a soliloquy as long as his beard,--and I hear
really loud opposition to this didacticism in the pit; but, however, this slow work soon meets
compensation in violent action. Shylock won't renew, and the nobles get indignant; so they
propose to pay Shylock with more kicks than halfpence. Here the action begins; for Shylock
protests he will bite a bit out of them; and though one of these long-sleeved swells warns
him that all threats by Jews against Christians are an imprisonment manner, Shylock rashly
prepares for a defence. Away fly the lords after Shylock, over go the chairs, down goes the
table, and I suppose Shylock does hit "one of them"; for the two lords go off quite triumphantly,
with the intimation that he will be in prison in one hour from that.

Then the Jew calls for--Sarah; and this same comes in on tiptoe, for fear of waking the baby.
This Shylock fils Sarah proceeds to describe as equally beautiful with Abel and Moses, which
seems to give Shylock père great comfort,--though I am bound to admit the lowly whispered doubt
on the part of a pit-neighbor of mine as to Sarah's capability of judging in the matter.

Shylock is preparing for prison, it seems, and one little necessity is a prayer for said son.
Sarah comes in with a response, Shylock leaves off praying "immediate," to tell Sarah she is
no vulgar servant, which assurance is received in the tearful manner. And here it comes a little
faint whiff of the real play. In leaving home, Shylock's French plagiarizes the Jew's speech
to Jessica, even down to the doubt the Jew has about leaving his house at all.

There has been no necessity for stating that Sara supposes herself the widow of a libel on
his sex, a man unspeakable; and the moment I hear he is, or was, a man of crime unspeakable,
I know he will turn up. Shylock having gone away,--I do not know where,--up comes a gondola
to the front-door, and, of course, in walks Sarah's husband. "Good evening, Ma'am," says he.
"God of Israel!" says she. And then such an explanation as this infamous husband gives! He
puts in, that he is a pirate; that his captain, whom he describes as a Vénus en corsaire, has
lost a son, and wants another; hence speaker, name Arnheim, wants that little Israelite who
is so much like Abel and Moses at one and the same moment: though how Arnheim should know of
that little creation, or how he should know him to be also like the lost infantile pirate as
well as Abel and Moses, does not sufficiently appear,--as, indeed, my neighbor, who is suggestive
of a Greek Chorus in a blue blouse, discovers in half a dozen disparaging syllables.

Of course, when the supposed widow hears this, her cries ought to wake up all hearing Venice,
but not one Venetian comes to her aid; and though she uses her two hands enough for twenty,
she has not got her way when thoroughly breathed.

"Sarah," says that energetic woman's husband, "Sarah, don't be a fool!"

Then I know the baby is coming: there never yet was a French prologue without a baby,--it seems
a French unity; sometimes there are two babies, who always get mixed up. But to our business.

Out comes the baby, (they never scream,) and--alas that for effect he should thus commit himself!--Arnheim
rips Sarah up, and down she goes as dead as the Queen of Sheba.

Then comes a really fine scene. Shylock enters, learns all; in come soldiers for Shylock, and,
of course, accuse him of the murder; whereupon Shylock shows on the blade a cross. "Doth a
Jew wear a knife with a cross on it?" says he. "Go to!--'tis a Christian murder."

To this the soldier-head has nothing to say; so he hurries Shylock off to prison, and down
comes the curtain.

"Hum!" says the Greek Chorus,--"it might be worse."

ACT I.

It is clear there must be lady characters, or I am quite sure the Greek Chorus would find fault
wofully,--and the only one we have had, Sarah, to wit, can't decently appear again, except
in the spiritual form. Well, there is the original Portia,--alas for that clever, virtuous,
and noble lady!--how is she fallen in the French!--she is noble-looking and clever,--but the
third quality, oh, dear me! This disreputable is named Imperia, and the real Bassanio becomes
one Honorius, who is, as he should be, the bosom friend of one Andronic, which is Antonio,
I would have you know. I have thought over it two minutes, and have come to the conclusion
that the less I say about Imperia the better, and I know the Anglo-Saxon would not agree with
Imperia,--but, as the Frenchman does, I offer you one, or part of one of Imperia's songs, as
bought by me for two disgraceful sous.

  "Déjà l'aube rayonne et luit,
  La nuit
  Finit;
  Maîtresse,
  L'heure enchanteresse
  Passe et fuit...
  A ton arrêt je dois me rendre.
  Sort jaloux! (bis.)
  Hâtons-nous,
  Il faut descendre
  Sans réveiller son vieil époux!..."

Well,--what do you think of it? Now I will not mention her again,--I will refer to her, when
I shall have vexatious occasion, as "that woman." And, indeed, "that woman" and Honorius set
us up in comprehension of matters progressing. It seems that quite twenty years have passed
since Sarah's soul slid through a knife-gash; that Honorius and Andronic, who have come from
Smyrna, (why?) are almost brothers; that Honorius is good in this fact only, that he knows
he is really bad; and that Andronic is the richest and most moral man in Venice,--though why,
under those circumstances, he should be friendly with such a rip as Honorius, Honorius does
not inform us.

I shall pass over the next scenes, and come to that in which all the creditors of all the lords
are brought on to the stage in a state which calls for the interference of the Doge: they are
all drunk,--except Shylock. This scene really is a startler. Shylock, now dashed with gray,
and nearly double, comes up to "that woman" and calls her sister; whereupon she demanding that
explanation which I and the Greek Chorus simultaneously want, Shylock states that he is Usury
and she Luxury, "and they have one father."

"Queer old man!!!" says "that woman."

Here follow dice, in which the Jew is requested to join, all of which naturally brings about
a discussion on the rate of usage, which that dog Andronic is bringing down, and a further
statement that that imprisonment lasted two years. Then comes a coup d'théâtre: Shylock reminds
everybody that a just Doge reigns now, (nor can I help pointing out the Frenchman's ingenuity
here: in the play, the Doge must be just, or where would the pound of flesh be?--while, if
the Doge of the prologue were just, Shylock would not have been committed for two years,--ergo,
kill No. 1. Doge, install No. 2.)--Shylock reminds everybody that a just Doge reigns. Shylock
has it all his own way, and Honorius is arrested before the very eyes of "that woman." Then
comes the necessary Deus ex machina in the shape of Andronic, who pays everybody everything,
saves his friend, and play proceeds. Andronic reproaches Jew touching his greed, whereon the
Jew offers this not profound remark,--"I am--what I am,"--and goes on counting his money.

Oh, if you only knew the secret!

This cash payment winds up the act.

ACT II.

Decidedly, the beginning of Act Second proves Andronic is no fool, for he advises Honorius
to flee that creature,--and what better advice in those matters is there than that of retreating?
Decidedly, too, the virtuous Doge is worth having,--really a Middle-Age electric telegraph,--for
he gives all about him such a dose of news as in this day would sell every penny-paper printed:
and such bad news!--Venice down everywhere, and a loan wanted. Here comes a fine scene for
Andronic, (for, after all, the lords have "hitched out" of the proposed loan, whereby I take
it they are not such fools as people take them to be,)--Andronic declares, that, if he were
rich enough, the Doge should not ask for money, but ships are but frail and his have gone to
pieces. Here, you see, comes another faint whiff of the real original play.

Then, clearly, the Doge can only apply to the Jews. Enter Shylock à propos. The next scene
is so awful to the Greek Chorus, who may be of a business turn, that I am charitable enough
not to reproduce it here; but the percentage the Jew wants for the loan seems to be quite a
multiplication-table of tangible securities, and I only wonder the Doge does not order him
into the Adriatic. Amongst other demands, the Jew procures all the Dogic jewels,--and then
he wants all the jewels of the Doge's daughter; indeed, Shylock becomes a most unreasonable party.

No sooner does he speak of the daughter, Ginevra by name, than in she comes, jewel-casket in
hand,--which leads the cynical Greek Chorus to suppose that Mademoiselle is either clairvoyante
or prefers going about with a box. The way in which that best of her sex offers up the jewels
on the patriotic shrine is really worthy of the applause bestowed on the act; but when that
pig of a Jew is not satisfied, when he insists upon the diamond necklace Ginevra wears, as
another preliminary to the loan, people in the theatre quite shake with indignation.

Now the jewel has been the pattern young lady's mother's; and here comes an opening for that
appeal to the filial love of Frenchmen which is never touched in vain. It is really a great
and noble trait in the French character, that filial love, not too questionable to be demonstrative,--'tis
a sure dramatist's French card, that appeal to the love of mothers and fathers by their children.

Having procured the weight of this chain, which has caused Shylock the loss of many friends
in the house who have been inclined to like him consequent upon the loss of that Abel-Moses-photograph,--Shylock
departs with this information, that he will bring the money to-morrow: which assertion proves
Shylock to be a strong man, if a hundred thousand marks are as heavy as I take them to be.

Upon what little things do dramas, in common with lives, turn! That necklace is the brilliant
groundwork of the rest of the plot. Why--why--why--WHY didn't Shakspeare think of the necklace?

And as I always must tell love-affairs as soon as I hear of them,--for, as a rule, I live in
country towns,--I may at once state that Ginevra loved Andronic, and latter loved former, and
they would not tell each other, and the Doge knew nothing about it.

Yes, decidedly, the necklace is the first character in "Le Juif de Venise." You see, Ginevra
loved the necklace, and Andronic loved Ginevra; so he is forced to procure that charming necklace
for her, coûte qui coûte, and so he goes to Shylock for it. And here you will see its value:
Shylock will sell it only for a large sum. Andronic, seeing his losses, hasn't the money,--but
will have;--glorious opening for the clause about the pound of flesh! Signed, sealed, and delivered.
How superior is Andronic to Antonio, the old ----! This latter pawns his breast for a friend
only: the great Andronic risks the flesh about his heart for sacred love. Io Venus!

Yet, nevertheless, notwithstanding, it is the opinion of the Greek Chorus that Andronic is
a joli fool,--which choral remark I hear with pain, as reflecting upon unhesitating love, and
especially as the remarker has been eminently touched at the abduction.

ACT IV.

As for the Fourth Act,--it is very tender and terrible.

I need not say that the tenderness arises through the necklace,--and indeed, for that matter,
so also does the terror. Touching the first, of course it is the discovery by Ginevra of the
return of those maternal diamonds,--which are handed to her by a femme-de-chambre, who has
had them from Andronic's valet-de-chambre, who is in love with the femme-de-chambre, who reciprocates,
etc., etc., etc.

But touching the terrible,--"that woman" hears of the necklace, and sends Honorius for it to
Shylock. Bad job!--gone! Well, then, Honorius falls out with his old friend Andronic because
latter will not yield up the necklace. Honorius demands to know who has it. Andronic will not
name Ginevra's name before "that woman" and all the lofty lords, and then there's a grand scene.

In the first place, it seems that in Shylock's Venetian time, the Venetian lords, when obliging
Venice with a riot, called upon Venetians to put out their lights, and this the lords now do,
(we are on the piazza,) and out go all the lights as though turned off at one main.

Then there is such a scrimmage! Honorius lunges at Andronic; this latter disarms former; then
latter comes to his senses, flies over to his old friend, and all the Venetian brawlers are
put to flight.

Then Honorius says,--and pray, pray, mark what Honorius says, or you will never comprehend
Act V.,--then Honorius says, taking Andronic's previous advice about flying, "I will go away,
and fight the Adriatic pirates." Now, pray, don't forget that. I quite distress myself in praying
you not to forget that,--to wit,--"Honorius goes away to fight the Adriatic pirates."

Oh, if you only knew the big secret!

ACT V.

This, of course, is the knifing act.

Seated is Shylock before an hour-glass, and trying to count the grains of sand as they glide
through.

Oh, if you only knew the big secret!

You remember that in that original play Antonio's ships are lost merely. Bah! we manage better
in this matter: the ships come home, but they are empty,--emptied by the pirates; though why
those Adriaticians did not confiscate the ships is even beyond the Greek Chorus, who says,
"They were very polite."

At last all the sand is at rest.

Crack,--as punctual as a postman comes Andronic; and as the Venetians are revolting against
the flesh business, about which they seem to know every particular, Andronic brings a guard
of the just Doge's soldiers to keep the populace quiet while the business goes on;--all of
which behavior on the merchant's part my friend the Chorus pronounces to be stupid and suicidal.

Then comes such a scene!--Andronic calling for Ginevra, and the Jew calling for his own.

Breast bared.

Then thus the Jew:--

"Feeble strength of my old body, be centred in this eye and this arm! Thou, my son, receive
this sacrifice, and tremble with joy in thy unknown tomb!"

Knife raised.

Oh, if you only knew the big secret!

And I do hope you have not forgotten that Honorius went away to fight the Adriatic pirates.

For, if you have forgotten that fact, you will not comprehend Honorius's rushing in at this
moment from the Adriatic pirates.

Yes,--but why did he go amongst them?

The big secret, in fact. If Honorius had not gone, why, I suppose Shylock would have had his
pound of man.

As it is, Honorius and his paper--which latter has also come from the pirates--do the business.

Why, the whole thing turns on the paper. How lucky it was Honorius went amongst the pirates!

Honorius has vanquished the chief of the pirates,--who was named Arnheim,--and that disreputable
widower, just before his last breath, gave Honorius the said paper,--though why, it is not
clear. And--and this paper shows that ANDRONIC IS THAT SON STOLEN AWAY FROM SARAH, DECEASED,
AND SHYLOCK,--THAT SON, NOT ONLY THE IMAGE OF ABEL, BUT OF MOSES, TOO.

Great thunderbolts!

Then, very naturally, (in a play,) in come all the characters, and follows, I am constrained
to say, a very well-conceived scene,--'tis another appeal to filial love. The Jew would own
his son, but he remembers that it would injure the son, and so he keeps silent. I declare,
there is something eminently beautiful in the idea of making the Jew yield his wealth up to
Andronic, and saying he will wander from Venice,--his staff his only wealth. And when, as he
stoops to kiss his son's hand, Ginevra (who of course has come on with the rest) makes a gesture
as though she feared treachery, the few words put into the Jew's mouth are full of pathos and
poetry.

And so down comes the curtain,--the piece meeting with the full approval of Chorus, who applauded
till I thought he would snap his hands off at the wrists.

"A very moral play," said a stout gentleman behind me,--who had done little else all night
but break into the fiercest of apples and pears,--"a very moral play,"--meaning thereby, probably,
that it was very moral that a Jew's child should remain a Christian.

Now there were some good points in that play; but, oh, thou M. Ferdinand Dugué, thou,--why
didst thou challenge comparison with a man who wrote for all theatres for all times?

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POET'S SINGING.

  In heat and in cold, in sunshine and rain,
  Bewailing its loss and boasting its gain,
  Blessing its pleasure and cursing its pain,
  The hurrying world goes up and down:
  Every avenue and street
  Of city and town
  Are veins that throb with the restless beat
  Of the eager multitude's trampling feet.
  Men wrangle together to get and hold
  A sceptre of power or a crock of gold;
  Blaspheming God's name with the breath He gave,
  And plotting revenge on the brink of the grave!
  And Fashion's followers, flitting after,
  O'ertake and pass the funeral train,
  Thoughtlessly scattering jests and laughter,
  Like sharp, quick showers of hail and rain,
  To beat on the hearts that are bleeding with pain!
  And many who stare at the close-shut hearse
  Envy the dead within,--or, worse,
  Turn away with a keener zest
  To grapple and revel and sin with the rest!
  While far apart in a bower of green,
  Unheeded, unseen,
  A warbling bird on the topmost bough
  Merrily pipes to the Poet below,
  Asking an answer as gay, I trow!
  But he hears the surging waves without,--
  The heartless jeer, and the wild, wild shout:
  The ceaseless clamor, the cruel strife
  Make the Poet weary of life;
  And tears of pity and tears of pain
  Ebb and flow in every strain,
  As he soothes his heart with singing.

  The tide of humanity rolleth on;
  And 'mid faces miserly, haggard, and wan,
  Between the hypocrite's and the knave's,
  The hapless idiot's and the slave's,
  Sweet children smile in their nurses' arms,
  And clap their hands in innocent glee;
  While, unrebuked by the heavenly charms
  That beam in the eyes of infancy,
  Oaths still blacken the lips of men,
  And startle the ears of womanhood!
  On either hand
  The churches stand,
  Forgotten by those who yesterday
  Went thronging thither to praise and pray,
  And take of the Holy Body and Blood!
  Their week-day creed is the law of Might;
  Self is their idol, and Gain their right:
  Though, now and then,
  God sees some faithful disciples still
  Breasting the current to do His will.

A JOURNEY IN SICILY.

CHAPTER I.

PALERMO.

In the latter part of April, 1856, four travellers, one of whom was the present writer, left
the Vittoria Hotel at Naples, and at two, P.M., embarked on board the Calabrese steamer, pledged
to leave for Palermo precisely at that hour. As, however, our faith in the company's protestations
was by no means so implicit as had been our obedience to their orders, it was with no feeling
of surprise that we discovered by many infallible signs that the hour of departure was yet
far off. True, the funnel sent up its thick cloud; the steward in dirty shirt-sleeves stood
firm in the gangway, energetically demanding from the baggage-laden traveller the company's
voucher for the fare, without which he may vainly hope to leave the gangway ladder; the decks
were crowded in every part with lumber, live and dead. But all these symptoms had to be increased
many fold in their intensity before we could hope to get under way; and a single glance at
the listless countenances of the bare-legged, bare-armed, red-capped crowd who adhered like
polypi to the rough foundation-stones of the mole sufficed to show that the performance they
had come to witness would not soon commence. Our berths once visited, we cast about for some
quiet position wherein to while away the intervening time. The top of the deck-house offered
as pleasant a prospect as could be hoped for, and thither we mounted.

The whole available portion of the deck, poop included, was in possession of a crowd of youngsters,
many mere boys, from the Abruzzi, destined to exchange their rags and emptiness for the gay
uniform and good rations of King Ferdinand's soldiery. In point of physical comfort, their
gain must be immense; and very bad must be that government which, despite of these advantages,
has forced upon the soldier's mind discontent and disaffection. No doubt, the spectacle of
the Swiss regiments doubly paid, and (on Sundays at least) trebly intoxicated, has something
to do with this ill feeling. The raggedness of this troop could be paralleled only by that
of the immortal regiment with whom their leader declined to march through Coventry, and was
probably even more quaint and fantastic in its character. Chief in singularity were their hats,
if hat be the proper designation of the volcanic-looking gray cone which adhered to the head
by some inscrutable dynamic law, and seemed rather fitted for carrying out the stratagem of
shoeing a troop of horse with felt than for protecting a human skull. A triple row of scalloped
black velvet not unfrequently bore testimony to the indomitable love of the nation for ornament;
and the same decoration might be found on their garments, whose complicated patchwork reminded
us of the humble original from which has sprung our brilliant Harlequin. Shortly our attention
was solicited by a pantomimic Roscius, some ten or twelve years old, who, having climbed over
the taffrail and cleared a stage of some four feet square, dramatized all practicable scenes,
and many apparently impracticable, for he made nothing of presenting two or three personages
in rapid interchange. Words were needless, and would have been useless, as the unloading of
railway bars by a brawny Northumbrian and his crew drowned all articulate sounds.

Notwithstanding these varied amusements, we were not sorry to see arrive, first, a gray general,
obviously the Triton of our minnows, and close behind him the health and police officers of
the government, to whose paternal solicitude for our mental and bodily health was to be ascribed
our long delay in port. These beneficent influences, incarnated in the form of two portly gentlemen
in velvet waistcoats,--an Italian wears a velvet waistcoat, if he can get one, far into the
hot months,--began their work of summoning by name each individual from the private to the
general, then the passengers, then the crew, and finally, much to our relief, reëmbarked in
the boat, and left us free to pursue our voyage.

