LARRY WALSH slowly climbed the stairs of a house near the waterfront, in a run-down quarter
of old New York. He halted on the top floor, blinking in the dim light that struggled through
the grime-coated window of the hallway. After a time he knocked timidly on the door before him.

There was nothing in the pleasant "Come in" to alarm the small man; he started to retreat,
but stopped when the door was thrown wide.

"Then it's yourself, Mouse! It's good for the eyes just to look at you."

The woman who greeted Walsh was in striking contrast to her shabby surroundings. Everything
about the old-fashioned house, one floor of which was her home, spoke of neglected age. This
girl, from the heavy, black braids encircling her head to the soles of her shoes, vibrated
youth. Her cheeks glowed with the color of splendid health; her blue Irish eyes were bright
with it. Friendliness had rung in the tones of her rich brogue, and showed now in her smile
as she waited for her visitor to answer.

Larry stood before her too shy to speak.

"Is it word from Dan you're bringin' me?" she encouraged. "But there, now, I'm forgettin' me
manners! Come in, an' I'll be makin' you a cup of tea." She took his arm impulsively, with
the frank comradeship of a young woman for a man much older than herself, and led him to a chair.

Larry sat ready for flight, his cap held stiffly across his knees. He watched every movement
of the girl, a look of pathetic meekness in his eyes.

"You're right, Mrs. Sullivan," he said after an effort; "Dan was askin' me to step in on my
way to the ship."

She turned quickly from the stove.

"You're not tellin' me now Dan ain't comin' himself, an' the boat leavin' this night?"

Larry was plainly uneasy.

"Well, you see--it's--now it's just like I'm tellin' you, Mrs. Sullivan; he's that important
to the chief, is Dan, they can't get on without him to-day at all."

"Then bad luck, I say, to the chief! Look at the grand supper I'm after fixin' for Dan!"

"Oh, Mary--Mrs. Sullivan, don't be speakin' disrespectful' of the chief, an' him thinkin' so
highly of Dan!"

Mary's blue eyes flashed.

"An' why wouldn't he! It's not every day he'll find the likes of Dan, with the strong arms
an' the great legs of him, not to mention his grand looks." She crossed to Larry, her face
aglow. "Rest easy now while you drink your tea," she urged kindly, "an' tell me what the chief
be wantin' him for."

She drew her chair close to Larry, but the small man turned shyly from her searching gaze.

"Well, you see, Mrs.--"

"Call me Mary. It's a year an' more now since the first time you brought Dan home to me." A
sudden smile lighted her face. "Well I remember how frightened you looked when first you set
eyes on me. Was you thinkin' to find Dan's wife a slip of a girl?"

"No; he told me you was a fine, big lass." He looked from Mary to the picture of an older woman
that hung above the mantel. "That'll be your mother, I'm thinkin'." Then, with abrupt change,
"When did you leave the old country, Mary?"

"A little more'n a year before I married Dan. But tell me, Mouse, about the chief wantin' him."

"We'll you see, Dan's that handy-like--"

"That's the blessed truth you're speakin'," she interupted, her face lovely with its flush
of pride. "But tell me more, that's a darlin'."

Larry thought rapidly before he spoke again.

"Only the last trip I was hearin' the chief say: 'Dan,' says he, 'it's not long now you'll
be swingin' the shovel. I'll be makin' you water-tender soon.'"

Mary leaned nearer, and caught both of Larry's hands in hers.

"Them's grand words you're sayin'; they fair makes my heart jump." She paused; the gladness
faded quickly from her look. "Then the chief don't know Dan sometimes takes a drop?"

"Ain't the chief Irish himself? Every man on the boilers takes his dram." Her wistful eyes
spurred him on. "Sure's I'm sittin' here, Dan's the soberest of the lot."

Mary shook her head sadly.

"Good reason I have to fear the drink; 't was that spoiled my mother's life."

Larry rose quickly.

"Your mother never drank!"

"No; the saints preserve us!" She looked up in surprise at Larry's startled face. "It was my
father. I don't remember only what mother told me; he left her one night, ravin' drunk, an'
never come back."

Larry hastily took up his cap.

"I must be goin' back to the ship now," he said abruptly. "An' thank you, Mary, for the tea."
He hurried from the room.

When Larry reached the ground floor he heard Mary's door open again.

"Can I be troublin' you, Mouse, to take something to Dan?" She came down the stairs, carrying
a dinner-pail. "I'd thought to be eatin' this supper along with him," Mary said, disappointment
in her tone. She followed Larry to the outer landing. "It's the true word you was sayin', he'll
be makin' Dan water-tender?"

Larry forced himself to look into her anxious eyes.

"Sure; it's just as I said, Mary."

"Then I'll pray this night to the Mother of God for that chief; for soon"--Mary hesitated;
a light came to her face that lifted the girl high above her squalid surroundings--"the extra
pay'll be comin' handy soon," she ended, her voice as soft as a Killarney breeze.

Larry, as he looked at the young wife standing between the scarred columns of the old doorway,
was stirred to the farthest corner of his heart.

"They only smile like that to the angels," he thought. Then aloud: "Bad cess to me! I was forgettin'
entirely! Dan said to leave this with you." He pushed crumpled, coal-soiled money into her
hand, and fled down the steps.

When Larry heard the door close creakily behind him, he looked back to where Mary had stood,
his eyes blinking rapidly. After some moments he walked slowly on toward the wharves. In the
distance before him the spars and funnels of ships loomed through the dusk, their outlines
rapidly fading into the sky beyond--a late September sky, now fast turning to a burned-out
sheet of dull gray.

Larry went aboard his ship, and, going to the forecastle, peered into an upper bunk.

"Your baby's not to home, Mouse," a voice jeered. "I saw him over to Flanagan's awhile ago."

A hopeless look crossed Larry's face.

"Give me a hand up the side, like a good lad, Jim, when I come aboard again."

A few minutes later the little man was making his way back to the steamer, every step of his
journey harassed by derisive shouts as he dodged between the lines of belated trucks that jammed
West Street from curb to string-piece. He pushed a wheelbarrow before him, his knees bending
under the load it held. Across the barrow, legs and head dangling over the sides, lay an unconscious
heap that when sober answered to the name of Dan Sullivan.

* * *

Larry Walsh, stoker on the coastwise freighter San Gardo, was the butt of the ship; every man
of the crew imposed on his good nature. He was one of those persons "just fool enough to do
what he's told to do." For thirty of his fifty years he had been a seaman, and the marks of
a sailor's life were stamped hard on his face. His weathered cheeks were plowed by wrinkles
that stretched, deep furrowed, from his red-gray hair to the corners of his mouth. From under
scant brows he peered out on the world with near-sighted eyes; but whenever a smile broadened
his wide mouth, his eyes would shine with a kindly light.

Larry's defective sight had led to his banishment as a sailor from the decks. During a storm
off Hatteras a stoker had fallen and died on the boiler-room plates.

"It don't take no eyes at all to see clean to the back of a Scotch boiler," the boatswain had
told the chief engineer. "I can give you that little squint-eyed feller." So, at the age of
forty or thereabouts, Larry left the cool, wind-swept deck to take up work new to him in the
superheated, gas-stifling air of the fire-room. Though entered on the ship's papers as a sailor,
he had gone without complaint down the straight ladders to the very bottom of the hull. Bidden
to take the dead stoker's place, "he was just fool enough to do what he was told to do."

Larry was made the coal-passer of that watch, and began at once the back-breaking task of shoveling
fuel from the bunkers to the floor outside, ready for the stokers to heave into the boilers.
He had been passing less than an hour during his first watch when the coal ran short in the
lower bunker. He speared with a slice-bar in the bunker above. The fuel rested at a steeper
angle than his weak eyes could see, and his bar dislodged a wedged lump; an instant later the
new passer was half buried under a heap of sliding coal. Bewildered, but unhurt, he crawled
to the boiler-room, shaking the coal from his back and shoulders. Through dust-filled ears
he heard the general laugh at his plight.

"Look at the nigger Irishman!" a stoker called.

"Irishman!" came the answer. "It's no man at all; it's a mouse you're seein'--a bunker mouse."

From that moment the name Larry Walsh was forgotten.

* * *

The San Gardo was late getting away that night; two bells of the evening watch had sounded
when at last she backed from her pier into the North River and began the first mile of her
trip to Galveston. Though she showed a full six inches of the red paint below her water-line,
the loading of her freight had caused the delay. In the hold lay many parts of sawmill machinery.
When the last of this clumsy cargo had settled to its allotted place, there was left an unusual
void of empty blackness below the deck hatches.

"It's up to you now, Matie," the stevedore had said to the impatient first officer. "My job's
done right, but she'll roll her sticks out if it's rough outside."

"That's nice; hand me all the cheerful news you have when you know they hung out storm-warnings
at noon," the officer had growled as the stevedore went ashore.

Signs that both the Government and the stevedore had predicted correctly began to show as soon
as the vessel cleared the Hook. The wind was blowing half a gale from the southeast and had
already kicked up a troublesome sea. The ship, resenting her half-filled hold, pitched with
a viciousness new to the crew.

There was unusual activity on board the San Gardo that night. Long after the last hatch-cover
had been placed the boatswain continued to inspect, going over the deck from bow to stern to
see that every movable thing was lashed fast.

In the engine-room as well, extra precautions were taken. It was Robert Neville's watch below;
he was the first of the three assistant engineers. Neville, a young man, was unique in that
most undemocratic institution, a ship's crew, for he apparently considered the stokers under
him as human beings. For one of his fire-room force he had an actual liking.

"Why do you keep that fellow they call Bunker Mouse in your watch?" the chief once asked.

"Because he's willing and the handiest man I have," Neville answered promptly.

"Well, suit yourself; but that brute Sullivan will kill him some day, I hear."

"I don't know about that, Chief. The Mouse is game."

"So's a trout; but it's got a damn poor show against a shark," the chief had added with a shrug.

Neville's watch went on duty shortly after the twin lights above Sandy Hook had dropped astern.
The ship was then rolling heavily enough to make walking difficult on the oily floor of the
engine-room; in the boiler-room, lower by three feet, to stand steady even for a moment was
impossible. Here, in this badly lighted quarter of the ship, ill humor hung in the air thicker
than the coal-gas.

Dan Sullivan, partly sobered, fired his boiler, showing ugly readiness for a fight. Larry,
stoking next to him, kept a weather-eye constantly on his fellow-laborer.

Neville's men had been on duty only a few minutes when the engineer came to the end of the
passage and called Larry.

"That's right," Dan growled; "run along, you engineer's pet, leavin' your work for me to do!"

Larry gave him no answer as he hurried away.

"Make fast any loose thing you see here," Neville ordered.

Larry went about the machinery-crowded room securing every object that a lurching ship might
send flying from its place. When he returned to the fire-room he heard the water-tender shouting:

"Sullivan, you're loafin' on your job! Get more fire under that boiler!"

"An' ain't I doin' double work, with that damn Mouse forever sneakin' up to the engine-room?"

Larry, giving no sign that he had heard Dan's growling answer, drove his scoop into the coal,
and with a swinging thrust spread its heaped load evenly over the glowing bed in the fire-box.
He closed the fire-door with a quick slam, for in a pitching boiler-room burning coal can fall
from an open furnace as suddenly as new coal can be thrown into it.

"So, you're back," Dan sneered. "It's a wonder you wouldn't stay the watch up there with your
betters."

Larry went silently on with his work.

"Soft, ain't it, you jellyfish, havin' me do your job? You eel, you--." Dan poured out a stream
of abusive oaths.

Still Larry did not answer.

"Dan's ravin' mad," a man on the port boilers said. "Will he soak the Mouse to-night, I wonder."

"Sure," the stoker beside him answered. "An' it's a dirty shame for a big devil like him to
smash the little un."

"You're new on this ship; you don't know 'em. The Mouse is a regular mother to that booze-fighter,
an' small thanks he gets. But wait, an' you'll see somethin' in a minute."

Dan's temper, however, was not yet at fighting heat. He glared a moment longer at Larry, then
turned sullenly to his boiler. He was none too steady on his legs, and this, with the lurching
of the ship, made his work ragged. After a few slipshod passes he struck the door-frame squarely
with his scoop, spilling the coal to the floor.

"Damn your squint eyes!" he yelled. "You done that, Mouse! You shoved ag'in' me. Now scrape
it all up, an' be quick about it!"

Without a word, while his tormentor jeered and cursed him, Larry did as he was told.

"Ain't you got no fight at all in your shriveled-up body?" Dan taunted as Larry finished. "You're
a disgrace to Ireland, that's what you are."

Larry, still patient, turned away. Dan sprang to him and spun the little man about.

"Where's the tongue in your ugly mouth?" Dan was shaking with rage. "I'll not be havin' the
likes of you followin' me from ship to ship, an' sniffin' at my heels ashore. I won't stand
for it no longer, do you hear? Do you think I need a nurse? Now say you'll leave this ship
when we makes port, or I'll break every bone in you."

Dan towered above Larry, his arm drawn back ready to strike. Every man in the room stopped
work to watch the outcome of the row.

At the beginning of the tirade Larry's thin shoulders had straightened; he raised his head;
his lower jaw, undershot, was set hard. The light from the boiler showed his near-sighted eyes
steady on Sullivan, unafraid.

"Get on with your work, an' don't be a fool, Dan," he said quietly.

"A fool, am I!"

Dan's knotted fist flashed to within an inch of Larry's jaw. The Bunker Mouse did not flinch.
For a moment the big stoker's arm quivered to strike, then slowly fell.

"You ain't worth smashin'," Sullivan snarled, and turned away.

"Well, what d'yer know about that!" the new stoker cried.

"It's that way all the time," he was answered; "there ain't a trip Dan don't ball the Mouse
out to a fare-you-well; but he never lays hand to 'im. None of us knows why."

"You don't? Well, I do. The big slob's yeller, an' I'll show 'im up." The stoker crossed to
Sullivan. "See here, Bo, why don't you take on a man your size?" He thrust his face close to
Dan's and shouted the answer to his question: "I'll tell you why. You ain't got sand enough."

Dan's teeth snapped closed, then parted to grin at his challenger.

"Do you think you're big enough?" The joy of battle was in his growl.

"Yes, I do." The man put up his hands.

Instantly Dan's left broke down the guard; his right fist landed squarely on the stoker's jaw,
sending him reeling to the bunker wall, where he fell. It was a clean knock-out.

"Go douse your friend with a pail of water, Mouse." Dan, still grinning, picked up his shovel
and went to work.

* * *

When Neville's watch went off duty, Larry found the sea no rougher than on countless other
runs he had made along the Atlantic coast. The wind had freshened to a strong gale, but he
reached the forecastle with no great difficulty.

Without marked change the San Gardo carried the same heavy weather from Barnegat Light to the
Virginia capes. Beyond Cape Henry the blow began to stiffen and increased every hour as the
freighter plowed steadily southward. Bucking head seas every mile of the way, she picked up
Diamond Shoals four hours behind schedule. As she plunged past the tossing light-ship, Larry,
squinting through a forecastle port, wondered how long its anchor chains would hold. The San
Gardo was off Jupiter by noon the third day out, running down the Florida coast; the wind-bent
palms showed faintly through the driving spray.

Neville's watch went on duty that night at eight. As his men left the forecastle a driving
rain beat against their backs, and seas broke over the port bow at every downward plunge of
the ship. To gain the fire-room door, they clung to rail or stanchion to save themselves from
being swept overboard. They held on desperately as each wave flooded the deck, watched their
chance, then sprang for the next support. On freighters no cargo space is wasted below decks
in passageways for the crew.

When Larry reached the fire-room there was not a dry inch of cloth covering his wiry body.
He and his fellow-stokers took up immediately the work of the men they had relieved, and during
the first hours of their watch fired the boilers with no more difficulty than is usual in heavy
weather.

At eleven o'clock the speaking-tube whistled, and a moment later Neville came to the end of
the passage.

"What are you carrying?" he shouted to the water-tender. "We've got to keep a full head of
steam on her to-night."

"We've got it, Mr. Neville--one hundred and sixty, an' we've held between that and sixty-five
ever since I've been on."

"The captain says we've made Tortugas. We lost three hours on the run from Jupiter," Neville
answered, and went back to his engine.

During the next hour no one on deck had to tell these men, toiling far below the water-line,
that wind and sea had risen. They had warnings enough. Within their steel-incased quarters
every bolt and rivet sounded the overstrain forced upon it. In the engine-room the oiler could
no longer move from the throttle. Every few minutes now, despite his watchfulness, a jarring
shiver spread through the hull as the propeller, thrown high, raced wildly in mid-air before
he could shut off steam.

At eleven-thirty the indicator clanged, and its arrow jumped to half-speed ahead. A moment
later the men below decks "felt the rudder" as the San Gardo, abandoning further attempts to
hold her course, swung about to meet the seas head on.

Eight bells--midnight--struck, marking the end of the shift; but no one came down the ladders
to relieve Neville's watch. The growls of the tired men rose above the noise in the fire-room.
Again Neville came through the passage.

