"I was asked to dine with a Sir Dixie Hickson, a stiff, bluff, beef-eating sort of man, who
was under some obligation to me, or I to him, I don't know which. Well, I forgot name, residence
all but the day--came home in a hurry, looked into the Court Guide, found a Sir Hicks Dixon,
drove to his house, found a party assembled, bowed to a fat woman in a turban who sailed forward
â la maitresse de maison, and simpered an apology, for Sir Hicks', or Sir Dicks', or whatever
he might be, 'unavoidable absence;' I forget why, 'but did not like to put off the party, and
hoped to look in in the evening.' (Mind I had never seen the femme Hickson.) Down we went to
dinner; a guest had failed, so there was a place for me; did not know a soul of the party;
such a set of creatures were never before assembled on God's earth! Well, I ate, drank, and
talked with the savages, told them some of my best lies, and was growing immensely popular,
when in drops Sir Hicks from the country. You should have seen us! we set each other like two
pointers backing in a stubble, with a covey between them, while the femme Dixon kept fussing
with an introduction--'Sir Hicks, Sir James,--Sir James, Sir Hicks!' At last the light broke
in, and I explained, and we laughed about it for a whole hour. I was afraid when all was over
I should have had to pay my debt of dinner to Sir Dixie; but the best of it is, I have not
seen or heard more of either him or Sir Hicks. It would have served me right if they had asked
me to dinner once a week for ever visiting such people. It is not likely that you should know
them."

There is much truth in the following satire upon fashionable travelling; though persons of
fashion are not the only unimproved tourists. In travelling, a man must carry half the entertainment
along with him.

"'Listen,' said he, 'and you will hear more of the uses and advantages of travel.'

"Mr. Theobald at that instant was speaking to Lord Bolsover.

"'I will just tell you what I did. Brussels, Frankfort, Berlin, Vienna, Munich, Milan, Naples
and Paris; and all that in two months. No man has ever done it in less.'

"'That's a fast thing; but I think I could have done it,' said Lord Bolsover, 'with a good
courier. I had a fellow once, who could ride a hundred miles a day for a fortnight.'

"'I came from Vienna to Calais,' said young Leighton, 'in less time than the Government courier.
No other Englishman ever did that.'

"'Hem! I am not sure of that,' said Lord Bolsover; 'but I'll just tell you what I have done--from
Rome to Naples in nineteen hours; a fact, upon my honour--and from Naples to Paris in six days.'

"'Partly by sea?'

"'No! all by land;' replied Lord Bolsover, with a look of proud satisfaction.

"'I'll just tell you what I did,' Mr. Leighton chimed in again, 'and I think it is a devilish
good plan--it shows what one can do. I went straight an end, as fast as I could, to what was
to be the end of my journey. This was Sicily; so straight away I went there at the devil's
own rate, and never stopped any where by the way; changed horses at Rome and all those places,
and landed in safety in ---- I forget exactly how long from the time of starting, but I have
got it down to an odd minute. As for the places I left behind, I saw them all on my way back,
except the Rhine, and I steamed down that in the nighttime.'

"'I have travelled a good deal by night,' said Theobald. 'With a dormeuse and travelling lamp
I think it is pleasant, and a good plan of getting on.'

"'And you can honestly say, I suppose,' said Denbigh, 'that you have slept successfully through
as much fine country as any man living?'

"'Oh, I did see the country--that is, all that was worth seeing. My courier knew all about
that, and used to stop and wake me whenever we came to any thing remarkable. Gad! I have reason
to remember it, too, for I caught an infernal bad cold one night when I turned out by lamp-light
to look at a waterfall. I never looked at another.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

SCRIPTURAL ANTIQUITIES.

We resume our quotations from this treasurable little volume already noticed in No. 551, of
The Mirror. Taken altogether, it is an exhaustless mine of research upon subjects which have
awakened curiosity from childhood to old age--from the little wonder-struck learner on the
school form to the patient inquirer with spectacle on nose.

The Raven and the Dove at the Deluge. There is an eloquent charm which, while it touches the
chords of truth, makes the heart respond to the tale. The raven would find sufficient for its
carnivorous appetite in the floatage of the animal remains, on the briny flood, and would return
to roost on the ark; but it was far different with Noah's bird, so long as the waters prevailed,
there could be no pause for her weary wing, and the messenger would return to the ark. So soon,
however, as the subsidence of the waters had permitted the olive to emerge, a sprig was plucked
off, and borne to the patriarch in triumph. Emphatic symbol of peace! Commemorated through
ages, it is still the symbol of peace. Along with the fig tree and vine, it is associated,
as the emblem of man's inheritance, and in the geography of its locality, the patriarch would
hail the plain on which it flourished, and from which it was borne, as the place of his former
abode. The dove would return, though the olive had emerged, because no food had as yet been
provided. How long this ambassador of peace was absent, we cannot tell: we are only informed
that the dove returned in the evening. If the winged messenger was despatched early in the
day, it is not improbable that the delightful trophy was obtained from Mount Olivet, where,
according to the late Dr. Clarke, 'the olive still vindicates its parental soil.' In considering
the question of the geographical distribution of plants, this would likely be the nearest olive
plane from the mountains of Armenia. It may be remarked also, that the olive remarkably synchronizes
with the habits of the dove; since, according to Dr. Chandler, in his Travels in Greece, as
soon as the olive matures its berries, vast numbers of doves, among other birds, repair for
food to the olive groves. It cannot be irrelevant to remind our readers of the habits of the
columba tabellaria, or the carrier pigeon, so called from the office to which it has been applied,
viz. that of carrying letters, in the Levant, &c. Those of Mesopotamia are the most famous
in the world, and the Babylonian carrier pigeon is employed even on ordinary occasions at Bagdad.
The geographical locality, therefore, of the carrier pigeon, it is interesting to remember,
is in the vicinity of those very mountains where the ark finally rested. With us the carrier
pigeon is an exotic, and is now acclimated, or naturalized. Carrier pigeons fly at the rate
of fifty miles an hour.--'Napoleon,' the name of one of the carrier pigeons which was despatched
from London a short time ago, at four o'clock A.M., reached Liege, in France, about ten o'clock
in the day. Mr. Audubon states his having shot the passenger pigeon (columba migratoria) in
America, and found in its stomach, rice, which could not have been obtained within a distance
of eight hundred miles."

Parable of the Good Samaritan.

"Our readers will remember the beautiful parable of the good Samaritan, and his kindness and
compassion for the wounded stranger 'who fell among thieves,' on his journey from Jerusalem
to Jericho. Sichem or Sychar, the district of the Samaritans, and which they now inhabit, is
about forty miles from Jerusalem. Jericho is about nineteen miles from the capital of Judea;
and, as it was in the first century, so the intervening country still remains infested by banditti.
Sir Frederick Henniker, as late as 1820, on his journey from Jerusalem to Jericho, was way-laid,
attacked by a band of predatory Arabs, and plundered. He was stripped naked, and left severely
wounded; and in this state was carried to Jericho."

David and Goliath.

"David's encounter with Goliath, the champion of the Philistines, is mentioned in I Samuel
xvii.: and in the 40th verse is described the simple armour with which the shepherd boy, Jesse's
son, repaired to the contest. Many a thirsty pilgrim, as he passes through the valley of Eluh,
on the road from Bethlehem to Jaffa (Joppa), has drunk of 'the brook in the way'--that very
brook from whence the minstrel youth 'chose him five smooth stones.' 'Its present appearance,'
says a recent traveller, 'answers exactly to the description given in Scripture; the two hills
on which the armies stood, entirely confined it on the right and left. The valley is not above
half a mile broad. Tradition was not required to identify this spot. Nature has stamped it
with everlasting features of truth. The brook still flows through it in a winding course, from
which David took the smooth stones.'"

The Willows of Babylon.

"In reference to the willow and the streams of Babylon, where the Hebrews remembered Zion so
mournfully, Sir Robert Ker Porter states, that 'the banks of the Euphrates were hoary with
reeds, and the grey osier willows were yet there on which the captives of Israel hung their
harps,' and wept in the land of the stranger. The salix babylonica, or the weeping willow,
in its geographical range, sweeps through the plains of Judea, and by the ruins of Babylon,
from the verge of the Mediterranean to the frontiers of Japan--a lovely line of beauty--the
Niobe of vegetation! Sad memorial of the mournful march of the captive Hebrews. It is, we think,
a very striking circumstance, that these countries should even now retain such unchanged lineaments
of their ancient history. Time seems to linger, or move slowly on; as if the wheels of nature
stood still, and paused at the mournful sight of departed grandeur and buried magnificence--BABYLON
in ruins! 'MENE!--GOD hath numbered thy kingdom, and finished it!' Mr. Rich has given us a
sketch of a spade copied from a Babylonian brick found near El Kasr, and detached from a mass
of ruin, in all probability, on the very site of Nebuchadnezzar's pensile gardens; and he remarks,
that it is almost a fac simile of the spade used at this very day in Chaldea."

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Heating with Hot Water.

Mr. A.M. Perkins has communicated to the Gardeners' Magazine the details of his plan for heating
hot-houses by the circulation of hot water in hermetically sealed tubes of small diameter.
Upon the economy of the plan, Mr. Loudon observes:--"With respect to the power of the one-inch
tubes, it has been demonstrated by a mathematician and chemist of the very first authority,
that as much will be effected by one of Mr. Perkins's one-inch tubes, heated to 300° as by
one of the three-inch tubes, employed in any of the ordinary modes of heating by hot water
when heated to 180°." A second advantage of Mr. Perkins's mode for hot-houses, is the small
space which the pipes occupy. A third advantage is, that the water may be circulated without
regard to whether the tubes are below or above the level of the fire-place. "But, however favourable
this plan may be for heating hot-houses, the advantage for that class of structures are as
nothing compared to those which it offers for heating dwelling-houses and all kinds of manufactories.
This will be understood at once, when it is stated that the water may be circulated under ordinary
circumstances of attention to the fire, at from 300° to 600°; and, with extraordinary strength
of pipe, and application of fuel to a still higher degree. It is found that 400° will roast
meat. The workmen in the bank-note printing-office of Messrs. Perkins and Bacon have dressed
a beefsteak at the further extremity of the pipe of hot water used for heating the steel plates;
and Mr. Perkins is constructing for himself an oven for roasting by water. It is easy to see,
that, in a very short time, this will lead to extraordinary and most beneficial changes in
domestic arrangements; and that if we could get rid of our prejudices in favour of open fires,
the smoky atmospheres of our great towns would be got rid of at the same time. Water at 500°,
or, at least, water at 300°, for the purposes of cookery, and for heating reserve cisterns
of cold water, or masses of metal or masonry, for various domestic purposes, including warming
rooms, heating baths, laundries, &c. may, at no distant time, be circulated by companies, in
the same manner as gas; and, in London, instead of one fire for every room, as at present,
there may be only one in a parish, or in every square of an acre in area."

A Marine Railway

for the purpose of conveying vessels overland, has been projected by Mr. Henry Fairbairn, in
the United Service Journal for May, 1832. The vessels are to be raised from the sea by machinery,
placed in slips and dragged along the railway by locomotive steam-engines. The same author
proposes to connect Ireland with Scotland, by means of a bank between Portpatrick and Donaghadee;
and England with France, by means of a chain bridge, causeway, or tunnel, from Dover to Calais.
Over all the lines of marine railways he proposes to form suspension railways, resting upon
arches, in the manner of Mr. Dick's, for the conveyance of passengers, mails, and merchandise.

Silk from Spiders.

At the last Anniversary of the Society of Arts, the Silver Isis Medal was presented to Mr.
D.B. Rolt for obtaining Silk from the Garden Spider. We find the details in the volume of the
Society's Transactions lately published.

"The subject of Mr. Rolt's experiments has been the garden spider, Aranea diadema, the webs
of which, in autumn, are so conspicuous on the surface of shrubs and in other similar situations.
On allowing one of these animals to crawl over his hand, he found that it drew a thread with
it wherever it went: he likewise, without any difficulty, wound some of this thread over his
hand, finding that the spider continued spinning while the thread was winding up.

"On this hint, he connected a small reel with the steam-engine of the factory in which he is
occupied, and putting it in motion, at the rate of 150 feet per minute, found that the spider
would thus continue to afford an unbroken thread during from three to five minutes. The specimen
of this silk, which accompanies Mr. Rolt's communication, was wound off from twenty-four spiders
in about two hours. Mr. R. estimates its length at 18,000 feet; its colour is white, and its
lustre is brilliant, and completely metallic, owing, probably, to its great opacity. No attempt
has been made by him to combine two or more filaments into one by winding, nor, of course,
to form it into thread by throwing.

