For, after all, you stand high in the journalistic world. Your opinion passes current in many
a select circle. Not even your vagaries seem to have power to offend the worshippers to whom
your word has long been a law, whether you spoke of golf, of salmon, of folk-lore or of books.
The censure of a BLUDYER (I wonder what has brought that formidable name to my mind) can do
little to discourage you. But Mr. BARRY PAIN is a young writer. And yet some one remarked that
In a Canadian Canoe was better even than Essays in Little, and the audacious words were actually
printed in a journal to which ANDREW LANG is an occasional contributor. I myself have never
dared to go so far. There is something sacred about an established reputation. And I can honestly
say that I like the elegant airy trifles which your little Muse has bestowed upon us, though
I confess to a weariness when the talk is too much of golf-clubs and salmon rods. And I admire
your appreciation of the original work of other men. In the present case you and I disagree
upon a question of taste. That is all. Tant pis pour moi, I hasten to add. But I disagree in
good company, for I note with some amusement, that the PAYN whom you rightly praise, has a
kind and encouraging word for the PAIN whom you so vehemently disparage. And in this case I
will stake my all upon the eulogy of JAMES PAYN as against the censure of ANDREW LANG. As you
did me the honour to refer to something I had written, I thought myself bound in politeness
to reply, and am

Your obedient servant,

AN A.R. IN THE B. DE B.-W.'s OFFICE."

       *       *       *       *       *

A STRAIGHT TIP TO CANADIAN "CROSS COVES."

  'Tis nice "in a Canadian Canoe"
    To practise what the ribald call "canoodling;"
  But what the deuce does the Dominion do,
    "In this galley," with this new game of "boodling?"
  "Paddle your own Canoe," dear, if you will,
  But kick all "cross coves" out, and trust to honest skill.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOURNAL OF A ROLLING STONE.

TENTH ENTRY.

DICK FIBBINS, my more or less "learned" instructor in practical law, goes out to a good many
evening parties, I find. Casually remarks that he "danced three square dances, the other night,
with old DAVIS's ugly daughter, the Solor (legal slang for Solicitor), in Caraway Street."
It's DAVIS himself, not the daughter, that is the Solicitor, and, it seems she introduced the
gay FIBBINS to her Papa. Hence another brief, a rather complicated one, on some dispute about
a mortgage.

On the morning when the case is to come into Court, DICK the Brief-hunter, who has promised
to take me there, seems nervous. Yet he is still confident that, if "old PROSER" is the judge,
he will "pull the thing off." It will be, apparently, a case of "Pull FIBBINS, pull PROSER."

In Court I occupy a seat just behind him, because--as he observes--I've been "grinding away
at the case, and know the subject down to the ground"--which I don't think he does. I therefore
am to act as his reserves, also as his prompter, and to supply him with the names of cases
which he has forgotten, and which he wishes to quote. Rather a responsible position. Should
feel more confidence in result if FIBBINS had told me of this prompter arrangement before the
very morning when the trial comes on.

"Old PROSER," appears to my untutored gaze to be rather a dignified occupant of the Bench.
I don't know whether he cherishes any personal or professional animosity against DICK FIBBINS,
but directly the latter opens his mouth to begin, PROSER seems inclined to jump down it.

"A complicated case of foreclosure?" he growls. "You needn't tell us that. All foreclosure
cases are complicated. I ever saw one yet that wasn't."

FIBBINS goes along unimpeded for a minute or two, PROSER having thrown himself back with an
air of resigned inattention, one of the other Judges taking furtive notes, and the third resting
his elbows on his desk, and his head on his elbows, and eyeing me with a stony and meaningless
stare. Can he suddenly have gone mad?

I have no time to consider this interesting point, as FIBBINS is again in difficulties about
some precedent that he wants to quote, but which he has forgotten, and turns sharply round
on me, saying, in a fierce whisper--

"What the doose is that case?"

I look hurriedly down on the sheet of paper on which (as I fancy) I have jotted down the authorities
bearing on the subject, and reply, also in a whisper--"Cookson and Gedge."

"The Court, m'luds," FIBBINS airily proceeds, as if he were indebted entirely to his own memory
for the information, "held in Cookson and Gedge that a mortgagor who desires to foreclose--"

"Where is the case you mention?" suddenly asks the Judge who was staring at me a moment ago.
He is now engaged in first looking at my instructor suspiciously, and then at me, as if he
thought that there was some horrible secret between us, which he is determined to probe to
the bottom.

"Volume Six of the Law Reports, m'lud."

"Page?" snaps PROSER.

"Page 184, m'lud. As I was saying, the Court there held that the right to foreclose at any
reasonable time is not taken away--"

This time the interruption comes from the Judge who I thought was going mad, but who now seems
to be preternaturally and offensively sane.

"It would be odd," he observes, cuttingly, "if any Court had decided a point about mortgages
in Cookson versus Gedge, because on looking at the page to which you have referred us, find
that Cookson and Gedge was a running-down case!"

I glance at the paper before me in consternation; another moment, and the horrifying fact is
revealed to me that the sheet of "authorities" I have brought with me bears, not on the mortgage
case now before the Court, but on that previous six-guinea matter on which I had given ROGERS
& Co. my valuable Opinion gratis.

I hear DICK FIBBINS, in this trying position, with the eyes of three Judges fixed on him, swearing
at me under his breath in the most awful manner. But why did he depend on me? Why didn't he
get up the case himself?

Deprived at one blow of most of his precedents, "shorn"--as the Breach of Promise Reports puts
it--"of its usual attractions," FIBBINS's speech becomes an impotent affair. He has to quote
such cases as he can remember, and as neither his memory nor his legal knowledge is great,
he presents them all wrongly, and prematurely sits down. I see PROSER's wrinkled countenance
illumined with an exultant smile. Just as I am moving out of Court (FIBBINS has to "move" in
Court), because I am desirous of avoiding FIBBINS's wrath,--though I feel that this fiasco
is more his fault than mine,--I hear the presiding judge (the mad one) say to the Defendant's
Counsel that he need not trouble to address them. I know what that means--judgment for the
Defendant!

Chancing half-an-hour later to enter a Strand Restaurant, part of which, I regret to say, is
also a drinking-bar, I am startled at beholding the identical form and features of FIBBINS
himself. He appears flushed--has two companions with him, to whom he is talking excitedly.
I hear the words--"idiot"--"jackass of a pupil"--"regular sell"--and; but no, perhaps I had
better not repeat all that I did hear. I decide to seek refreshment elsewhere.

Over the subsequent scene in FIBBINS's Chambers I prefer to draw a veil. It is sufficient to
say that I was obliged to leave FIBBINS, and thereafter received a solid half-year's instruction
in the Chambers of a learned Counsel who was not a briefless impostor.

I heard afterwards that he had added the story to his fund of legal dining-out anecdotes, and
had considerably amplified it. It came out in a shape which made FIBBINS a hero, myself an
imbecile of a rather malicious kind, PROSER helplessly cowering under FIBBINS's wealth of arguments,
and the other two Judges reduced to admiring silence. I take this opportunity of stating that
if anybody "cowered" in Court on that memorable occasion, it was certainly not poor old PROSER.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE "DISAPPOINTMENT OF DECEMBER."

    ["It is too early yet (says the Telegraph) to announce the
    title of the latest of the Laureate's plays, but this much may
    be said, that it is written partly in blank verse and partly
    in prose, that it is what is known in theatrical circles as
    a 'a costume play,' and that the scene is laid in England. It
    may, however, interest sensitive dramatists to know that Lord
    TENNYSON is liberal enough to place the stage detail wholly in
    the competent hands of Mr. DALY. He does not wince if a line
    is cut here and there, or protest if a scene or a speech has
    to be supplied."]

  Behold, I know not anything,--
    Except that if I write two Acts in verse,
    And two in prose, I might do worse
  Than having a Four Act song to sing.

  I leave the dress we know to-day;
    On English ground my scene I set,
    And wonder if I touch as yet,
  What we have termed a "Costume Play!"

  If I have over-writ, and laid,
    It may be here, it may be there,
    The fat too thickly on,--with care
  To cut it down be not afraid.

  But oh, if here and there I seem
    To have half-said what I should say,
    Give me the start--I'll fire away,
  And keep up the poetic steam--

  Ay! keep it up in lines that run
    As glibly from the Laureate's pen,
    That I shall by my fellow men
  Be greeted with "That's TENNYSON!"

In short, it will not be easy, from such scanty information as the Noble Rhymester has as yet
given to the public, to say precisely what sort of a play this promised comedy, "half in prose,
half in blank verse," will prove itself to be; but it is to be hoped with The Promise of May
still fresh in the memory of many a playgoer, that the forthcoming effort may not, after all,
turn out to merit the unpromising title of The Disappointment of December.

       *       *       *       *       *

A MYSTERIOUSLY MASONIC LINE.--"Oh, for a Lodge in some vast wilderness!"