565
    Notes on several Misunderstood Words, by the Rev.
      W. R. Arrowsmith                                 566
    Verney Papers: the Capuchin Friars, &c., by Thompson
      Cooper                                           568
    Early Satirical Poem                               568
    The Letters of Atticus, by William Cramp           569

    MINOR NOTES:--Irish Bishops as English Suffragans--
        Pope and Buchanan--Scarce MSS. in the British
        Museum--The Royal Garden at Holyrood Palace--
        The Old Ship "Royal Escape"                    569

  QUERIES:--
   "The Light of Brittaine"                           570

    MINOR QUERIES:--Thirteen an unlucky Number--
      Quotations--"Other-some" and "Unneath"--
      Newx, &c.--"A Joabi Alloquio"--Illuminations--
      Heraldic Queries--John's Spoils from Peterborough
      and Crowland--"Elementa sex." &c.--Jack and Gill:
      Sir Hubbard de Hoy--Humphrey Hawarden--"Populus
      vult decipi"--Sheriffs of Huntingdonshire and
      Cambridgeshire--Harris                           571

  REPLIES:--
    Bishop Butler, by J. H. Markland, &c.              572
    Mitigation of Capital Punishment to Forgers        573
    Mythe versus Myth, by Charles Thiriold      575
   "Inquiry into the State of the Union, by the Wednesday
      Club in Friday Street," by James Crossley        576
    Unpublished Epigram by Sir Walter Scott, by William
      Williams, &c.                                    576
    Church Catechism                                   577
    Jacob Bobart, &c., by Dr. E. F. Rimbault           578
   "Its," by W. B. Rye                                578
    Bohn's Edition of Hoveden, by Henry T. Riley       579
    Books of Emblems, by J. B. Yates, &c.              579

    PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Mr. Pollock's Directions
      for obtaining Positive Photographs upon
      albumenised Paper--Test for Lenses--Washing Collodion
      Pictures                                         581

    REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Cremonas--James Chaloner
      --Irish Convocation--St. Paul's Epistle to Seneca
      --Captain Ayloff--Plan of London--Syriac Scriptures
      --Meaning of "Worth"--Khond Fable--Collar of S3.
      --Chaucer's Knowledge of Italian--Pic Nic--Canker
      or Brier Rose--Door-head Inscriptions--"Time and
      I"--Lowbell--Overseers of Wills--Detached Belfry
      Towers--Vincent Family, &c.                      582

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
    Books and Odd Volumes wanted                       586
    Notices to Correspondents                          586
    Advertisements                                     587

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

TOM MOORE'S FIRST!

It is now generally understood that the first poetic effusion of Thomas Moore was entrusted
to a publication entitled Anthologia Hibernica, which held its monthly existence from Jan.
1793 to December 1794, and is now a repertorium of the spirited efforts made in Ireland in
that day to establish periodical literature. The set is complete in four volumes: and being
anxious to see if I could trace the "fine Roman" hand of him whom his noble poetic satirist,
and after fast friend, Byron, styled the "young Catullus of his day," I went to the volumes,
and give you the result.

No trace of Moore appears in the volume containing the first six months of the publication;
but in the "List of Subscribers" in the second, we see "Master Thomas Moore;" and as we find
this designation changed in the fourth volume to "Mr. Thomas Moore, Trinity College, Dublin!"
(a boy with a black ribband in his collar, being as a collegian an "ex officio man!"), we may
take it for ascertained that we have arrived at the well-spring of those effusions which have
since flowed in such sparkling volumes among the poetry of the day.

Moore's first contribution is easily identified; for it is prefaced by a note, dated "Aungier
Street, Sept. 11, 1793," which contains the usual request of insertion for "the attempts of
a youthful muse," &c., and is signed in the semi-incognito style, "Th-m-s M--re;" the writer
fearing, doubtless, lest his fond mamma should fail to recognise in his own copy of the periodical
the performance of her little precocious Apollo.

This contribution consists of two pieces, of which we have room but for the first: which is
a striking exemplification (in subject at least) of Wordsworth's aphorism, that "the child
is father to the man." It is a sonnet addressed to "Zelia," "On her charging the author with
writing too much on Love!" Who Zelia was--whether a lineal ancestress of Dickens's "Mrs. Harris,"
or some actual grown up young lady, who was teased by, and tried to check the chirpings of
the little {566} precocious singing bird--does not appear: but we suspect the former, for this
sonnet is immediately followed by "A Pastoral Ballad!" calling upon some Celia unknown to "pity
his tears and complaint," &c., in the usual namby-pamby style of these compositions. To any
one who considers the smart, espiègle, highly artificial style of "Tom Moore's" after compositions,
his "Pastoral Ballad" will be what Coleridge called his Vision, a "psychological curiosity."

Passing on through the volumes, in the Number for February 1794 we find a paraphrase of the
Fifth Ode of Anacreon, by "Thomas Moore;" another short poem in June 1794, "To the Memory of
Francis Perry, Esq.," signed "T. M.," and dated "Aungier Street." These are all which can be
identified by outward and visible signs, without danger of mistake: but there are a number
of others scattered through the volumes which I conjecture may be his; they are under different
signatures, generally T. L., which may be taken to stand for the alias "Thomas Little," by
which Moore afterwards made himself so well known. There is an "Ode to Morning," in the Number
for March 1794, above the ordinary run of magazine poetry. And in the Number for May following
are "Imitations from the Greek" and Italian, all under this same signature. And this last being
derived from some words in Petrarch's will, bequeathing his lute to a friend, is the more curious;
and may the more probably be supposed Moore's, as it contains a thought which is not unlikely
to have suggested in after years the idea of his celebrated melody, entitled the "Bard's Legacy."
The Number for Nov. 1794, last but one in the fourth volume, contains a little piece on "Variety,"
which independent of a T. M. signature, I would almost swear, from internal evidence, to be
Moore's; it is the last in the series, and indicates such progress as two years might be supposed
to give the youthful poet, from the lack-a-daisical style of his first attempts, towards that
light, brilliant, sportive vein of humour in which he afterwards wrote "What the Bee is to
the Flowret," &c., and other similar compositions. I now give Moore's first sonnet, including
its footnote, reminding us of the child's usual explanatory addition to his first drawing of
some amorphous animal--"This is a horse!" or "a bear!" as the case may be. Neither the metre
nor the matter would prepare us for the height to which the writer afterwards scaled "the mountain's
height of Parnassus:"

                 "TO ZELIA.

  (On her charging the Author with writing too much on Love.)

 'Tis true my Muse to love inclines,
  And wreaths of Cypria's myrtle twines;
  Quits all aspiring, lofty views,
  And chaunts what Nature's gifts infuse:
  Timid to try the mountain's* height,
  Beneath she strays, retir'd from sight,
  Careless, culling amorous flowers;
  Or quaffing mirth in Bacchus' bowers.
  When first she raised her simplest lays
  In Cupid's never-ceasing praise,
    The God a faithful promise gave--
  That never should she feel Love's stings,
    Never to burning passion be a slave,
  But feel the purer joy thy friendship brings.

          * Parnassus!"

If you think this fruit of a research into a now almost forgotten work, which however contains
many matters of interest (among the rest, "The Baviad of Gifford"), worth insertion, please
put it among "N. & Q.;" it may incite others to look more closely, and perhaps trace other
"disjecta membra poetæ."

A. B. R.

Belmont.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON SEVERAL MISUNDERSTOOD WORDS.

(Continued from p. 544.)

Let no one say that a tithe of these instances would have sufficed. Whoever thinks so, little
understands the vitality of error. Most things die when the brains are out: error has no brains,
though it has more heads than the hydra. Who could have believed it possible that after Steevens's
heaped-up proofs in support of the authentic reading, "carded his state" (King Henry IV., Act
III. Scene 2.), Warburton's corruption, 'scarded, i. e. discarded, was again to be foisted
into the text on the authority of some nameless and apocryphal commentator? Let me be pardoned
if I prefer Shakspeare's genuine text, backed by the masterly illustrations of his ablest glossarist,
before the wishy-washy adulterations of Nobody: and as a small contribution to his abundant
avouchment of the original reading, the underwritten passage may be flung in, by way of make-weight:

         "Carded his state (says King Henry),
  Mingled his royaltie with carping fooles."

    "Since which it hath been and is his daily practice, either to broach
    doctrinas novas et peregrinas, new imaginations never heard of before,
    or to revive the old and new dress them. And these--for that by
    themselves they will not utter--to mingle and to card with the
    Apostles' doctrine, &c., that at the least yet he may so vent
    them."--One of the Sermons upon the Second Commandment, preached in the
    Parish Church of St. Giles, Cripplegate, on the Ninth of January, A.D.
    MDXCII.: Andrewes' Sermons, vol. v. p. 55. Lib. Ang.-Cath. Theol.

       *       *       *       *       *

Trash, to shred or lop.--So said Steevens, alleging that he had met with it in books containing
directions for gardeners, published in the time of {567} Queen Elizabeth. I fear his memory
deceived him, or why should a man of his sound learning afterwards incline to vail bonnet to
the dogmatist Warburton? whose knowledge of dogs, by the way, must have been marvellously small,
or he could never have imagined them to overtop one another in a horizontal course. Overrun,
overshoot, overslip, are terms in hunting, overtop never; except perchance in the vocabulary
of the wild huntsman of the Alps. Trash occurs as a verb in the sense above given, Act I. Sc.
2. of the Tempest: "Who t'aduance, and who to trash for over-topping." I have never met with
the verb in that sense elsewhere, but overtop is evermore the appropriate term in arboriculture.
To quote examples of that is needless. Of it metaphorically applied, just as in Shakspeare,
take the following example:

    "Of those three estates, which swayeth most, that in a manner doth
    overtop the rest, and like a foregrown member depriveth the other of
    their proportion of growth."--Andrewes' Sermons, vol. v. p. 177., Lib.
    Ang.-Cath. Theol.

Have we not the substantive trash in the sense of shreddings, at p. 542. book iii. of a Discourse
of Forest Trees, by John Evelyn? The extract that contains the word is this:

    "Faggots to be every stick of three feet in length, excepting only one
    stick of one foot long, to harden and wedge the binding of it; this to
    prevent the abuse, too much practised, of filling the middle part and
    ends with trash and short sticks, which had been omitted in the
    former statute."

Possibly some of the statutes referred to by Evelyn may contain examples of the verb. In the
meantime it will not be impertinent to remark, that what appears to be nothing more than a
dialectic variety of the word, namely trouse, is of every-day use in this county of Hereford
for trimmings of hedges; that it is given by Grose as a verb in use in Warwickshire for trimming
off the superfluous branches; and lastly, that it is employed as a substantive to signify shreddings
by Philemon Holland, who, if I rightly remember, was many years head master of Coventry Grammar
School:

    "Prouided alwaies, that they be paued beneath with stone; and for want
    thereof, laid with green willow bastons, and for default of them, with
    vine cuttings, or such trousse, so that they lie halfe a foot
    thicke."--The Seuenteenth Booke of Plinie's Naturall History, chap.
    xi. p. 513.: London, 1634.

Trash no one denies to be a kennel term for hampering a dog, but it does not presently follow
that the word bore no other signification; indeed, there is no more fruitful mother of confusion
than homonomy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Clamor, to curb, restrain (the tongue):

 "Clamor your tongues, and not a word more."
              The Winter's Tale, Act IV. Sc. 4.

Most judiciously does NARES reject Gifford's corruption of this word into charm, nor will the
suffrage of the "clever" old commentator one jot contribute to dispel their diffidence of this
change, whom the severe discipline of many years' study, and the daily access of accumulating
knowledge, have schooled into a wholesome sense of their extreme fallibility in such matters.
Without adding any comment, I now quote, for the inspection of learned and unlearned, the two
ensuing extracts:

    "For Critias manaced and thretened hym, that onelesse he chaumbreed
    his tongue in season, ther should ere l[=o]g bee one oxe the fewer for
    hym."--Apoptheymis of Erasmus, translated by Nicolas Vdall,
    MCCCCCXLII, the First Booke, p. 10.

    "From no sorte of menne in the worlde did he refrein or chaumbre the
    tauntying of his tongue."--Id., p. 76.

After so many Notes, one Query. In the second folio edition of Shakspeare (my first folio wants
the whole play), I find in Cymbeline, Act V. Sc. 3., the next beautiful passage:

 "Post. Still going? Well I will finde him:
  For being now a favourer to the Britaine,
  No more a Britaine, I have resum'd againe
  The part I came in."

In the antepenultimate line, Britaine was more than a century ago changed by Hanmer into Roman,
therefore retained by Warburton, again rejected by Steevens and Johnson, once more replaced
by Knight and Collier, with one of his usual happy notes by the former of the two, without
comment by the latter, finally left unnoticed by Dyce. My Query then is this.

W. R. ARROWSMITH.

P.S.--In article of No. 180. p. 353., a rather important misprint occurs, viz. date of 4to.
King Richard II. with unusual title-page, which should be 1608, not 1605. Other little errors
the reader may silently amend for himself. I venture thus to decypher the same:

 "The Capuchin's house to be dissolued.
  No extracts of letters to be aloued in this house.
  The prince is now come to Greenhich three lette.
  Three greate ships staied in France.
  Gersea a letter from Lord S^t Albones.
  £11 per diem Hull.
  The king's answert to our petition about the militia.
  If a king offer to kil himselfe, wee must not only advise but wrest the
      weapon from.
  A similitude of a depilat.
  Consciences corrupted."

I ought to state that in one or two instances the wrong cypher has evidently been used by mistake,
and this has of course increased the difficulty of decyphering the notes.

With reference to the note "The Capuchins' House to be dissolued," may I be allowed to refer
to the following votes in the House of Commons, of the date 26th February, 1641-2:

    "Ordered, That Mr. Peard, Mr. Whistler, Mr. Reynolds, Mr. Pideaux, Mr.
    Selden, Mr. Young, Mr. Hill, do presently withdraw, to peruse the
    statutes now in force against priests and Jesuits.

    "Ordered, That Mr. Whittacre, Mr. Morley, do presently go to Denmarke
    House.

    "Resolved, That the Capuchines shall be forthwith apprehended and taken
    into safe custody by the Serjeant-at-Arms attending on this house; and
    there kept till this house take farther order."

The Capuchins were under the protection of the Queen Henrietta Maria; Denmark House was the
name by which Somerset House was at the period known.

Under date 2nd March, 1641-2, are the following entries in the Commons' Journal:

    "Mr. Holles brings this answer from the French Ambassador, That the
    Capuchins being sent hither by Articles of Treaty between the Two
    Crowns, he durst not of himself send them without Order from the King
    his Master, or the King and Queen here: And said farther, That the
    Queen had left an express Command for their stay here; and that he
    would be ever ready to do any good Office for this House, and to keep a
    good Correspondency between the Two Crowns; and if this House pleased,
    he would undertake to keep them safe Prisoners at Somersett House; and
    that the chapel there shall have the doors locked, and no Mass be said
    there.

    "Ordered, That Mr. Hollis do acquaint the French Ambassador, that this
    House doth accept of his Offer in securing the Persons of the
    Capuchins, till this House take farther Order: and that the Doors be
    locked, and made fast, at the Chapel at Somersett House; and that no
    Mass be said there.

    "Ordered, That the Lord Cramborne and Mr. Hollis shall acquaint the
    French Ambassador with the desires of this House, that the Capuchins be
    forthwith sent away; and to know if he will undertake to send them
    away; and, if he will, that then they be forthwith delivered unto him.

    "That Mr. Hollis do go up to the Lords, to acquaint them with the
    Resolutions of this House, concerning the Capuchins, and desire their
    Lordships' concurrence therein."

Some particulars of the proceedings of the parliament against the Capuchins may be found in
"Memoirs of the Mission in England of the Capuchin Friars of the Province of Paris by Father
Cyprian Gamache," in The Court and Times of Charles I., vol. ii. pp. 344. 354.

THOMPSON COOPER.

Cambridge.

       *       *       *       *       *

EARLY SATIRICAL POEM.

On the turning over the pages of an old printed copy of Durand's Rationale Divinorum Officiorus,
edited by Bonetus de locatellis bergomensis, and printed at Lyons in 1506, by Natalis Brabam,
for Jaques Huguetan, I found the following copy of verses written on the fly-leaf. They are
written in a hand which I am inclined to assign to a date {569} not much later than that of
the book. There is no clue to the author. If they are thought worthy of insertion in "N. &
Q.," I beg to inquire, through the medium of your columns, whether they are to be found in
any collection of early English poems? and whether the author is known?

The ungallant sentiment of the first three stanzas is obvious. The fourth is not so plain;
nor is its connexion with the others evident, though it is written without anything to mark
separation; and the word "finis" is placed below it, as if to apply to the whole. I should
be obliged if some one of your readers would give some explanation of it.

W. H. G.

Winchester.

 "Wen [sic] nettylles in wynter bryngythe forthe rosses red,
  And a thorne bryngythe figges naturally,
  And grase berrythe appulles in every mede,
  And lorrel cherrys on his crope so hye,
  And okkys berrythe datys plentyusly,
  And kykkys gyvythe hony in superfluans,
  The put in women yower trust and confydenc.

 "When whythynges walke forrestys hartyse for to chase,
  And herrings in parkkys the hornnys boldly bloc,
  And marlyons[2] ... hernys in morrys doo unbrace,
  And gomards shut ryllyons owght of a crose boow,
  And goslyngs goo a howntyng the wolf to overthrow,
  And sparlyns bere sperrys and arms for defenc,
  Then put yn women yower trust and confydenc.

 "When sparrowes byld chorchys and styppyllys of a hyght,
  And corlewys carry tymber yn howsys for to dyght,
  Wrennys bere sakkys to the myll,
  And symgis[3] bryng butter to the market to sell,
  And wodcokkys were wodknyffys the crane for to kyll,
  And gryffyns to goslynges doo obedienc,
  Then put in women yower trust and confydenc.

 "O ye imps of Chynner, ye Lydgatys pene,
  With the spryght of bookkas ye goodly inspyrryd,
  Ye Ynglyshe poet, excydyng other men,
  With musyk wyne yower tong yn syrryd,
  Ye roll in yower rellatyvys as a horse immyrryd,
  With Ovyddes penner ye are gretly in favor,
  Ye bere boys incorne, God dyld yow for yower labor.
                  Finis."

[Footnote 2: Merlin's hawks.]

[Footnote 3: Doubtful; but perhaps for syngies, an old name for the finch.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LETTERS OF ATTICUS.

The editor of the Grenville Papers has alluded to some "very judicious and pertinent remarks
in the 'N. & Q.'" respecting the Letters of Atticus, and as most of your readers will probably
agree with him that the authenticity of these letters is "a curious and interesting question,
and one that deserves very particular attention," I beg to correct an error into which he and
others have fallen, as to the date when Junius ceased to write under the signature Atticus.
The Atticus forwarded by Junius to George Grenville on the 19th October, 1768, was, there is
every reason to believe, the last from the pen of that writer, who was then preparing to come
before the public in a more prominent character. When another correspondent adopted the signature
Atticus, Woodfall gave his readers warning by inserting the following notice into the Public
Advertiser:

    "The Address to the Freeholders of the county of Middlesex, signed
    Atticus, in our next. The Printer thinks it his duty to acquaint his
    readers that this letter is not by the same hand as some letters in
    this paper a little time since, under the signature Atticus."--Pub.
    Ad., March 19, 1769.

The printer took the like course when writers attempted to "impose upon the public" by using
the signatures Lucius and C., and then freely inserted their letters; but when the same trick
was tried with Junius, the printer did not scruple to alter the signature, or reject the contribution
as spurious.

The genuine Letters of Atticus have had a narrow escape lately of being laughed out of their
celebrity by writers in some of our most respectable periodicals. The authenticity of these
letters up to the 19th October, 1768, is now fully established.

WILLIAM CRAMP.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Irish Bishops as English Suffragans.--In compliance with the suggestion of J. M. D. in your
last volume, p. 385., I abridge from The Record of March 17th the following particulars:

    "At a recent meeting of the Archæolgical Society the Rev. W. Gunner
    stated that from a research among the archives of the bishops and of
    the college of Winchester, he had found that many Irish bishops, during
    the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, were merely titular bishops,
    bearing the titles of sees in Ireland, while they acted as suffragans
    to bishops in England. A Bishop of Achonry, for instance, appeared to
    have been frequently deputed by William of Wykeham to consecrate
    churches, and to perform other episcopal duties, in his diocese; and
    the Bishops of Achonry seemed frequently to have been suffragans of
    those of Winchester. No see exhibits more instances of this
    expatriation than Dromore, lying as it did in an unsettled and
    tumultuous country. Richard Messing, who succeeded to Dromore bishopric
    in 1408, was suffragan to the Archbishop of York; and so died at {570}
    York within a year after his appointment. His successor John became a
    suffragan to the Archbishop of Canterbury, and died such in 1420.
    Thomas Scrope, a divine from Leicestershire, was appointed by the Pope
    to this see in 1430: he could not live in peace with the Irish, and
    therefore became vicar-general to the Bishop of Norwich. Thomas
    Radcliffe, his successor, never lived in Ireland: 'the profits of his
    see did not extend to 30l. sterling, and for its extreme poverty it is
    void and desolate, and almost extincted, in so much as none will own
    the same, or abide therein.' Dr. Radcliffe was therefore obliged to
    become a suffragan to the Bishop of Durham. William, who followed him
    in the Dromore succession in 1500, lived in York, and was suffragan to
    its archbishop; and it would seem his successors were also suffragans
    in England, until the plantation of Ulster improved the circumstances
    of that province."

AN OXFORD B. C. L.

Pope and Buchanan.--I beg to suggest as a Query, whether Pope did not borrow the opening of
his Essay on Man from that of the second book of Buchanan's Latin poem De Sphærâ. Let us compare
them.

Buchanan:

 "Jam mihi Timoleon, animo majora capaci
  Concipe; nec terras semper mirare jacentes;
  Excute degeneres circum mortalia curas,
  Et mecum ingentes coeli spatiare per auras."

I do not remember the comparison to have been made before.

WM. EWART.

University Club.

Scarce MSS. in the British Museum.--In Cotton MSS., Titus, B 1., will be found a curious and
valuable collection of papers entitled "Cromwell's Remembrances." These comprise:

1. A period from about the death of Anne Boleyn to his attainder.

2. They are very miscellaneous, consisting of memoranda of subjects for conference with the
king. Notices of persons to be remembered for offices. Sale of lands. Diplomacy, and various
other particulars. Notes relative to the dissolution of monasteries; their riches, revenues,
and pensions to abbots, &c. The reception of Anne Cleves, and the alteration of the royal household
thereupon. Privy council and parliamentary notes. Foreign alliances. Scotch and Irish affairs,
consequent on the dissolution of abbeys, &c.

These curious materials for history are in the rough and confused state in which they were
left by their author, and, to render them available, would require an index to the whole.

The "Remembrances" are in some degree illustrated by Harl. MS. 604., which is a very curious
volume of monastic affairs at the dissolution. Also by 605, 606, and 607. The last two belong
to the reign of Philip and Mary, and contain an official account of the lands sold by them
belonging to the crown in the third and fourth years of their reign.

E. G. BALLARD.

The Royal Garden at Holyrood Palace.--I cannot help noticing a disgraceful fact, which has
only lately come to my knowledge. There is, adjoining the Palace of Holyrood, an ancient garden
of the old kings of Scotland: in it is a curious sundial, with Queen Mary's name on it. There
is a pear-tree planted by her hands, and there are many other deeply interesting traces of
the royal race, who little dreamed how their old stately places were to be profaned, after
they themselves were laid in the dust. The garden of the Royal Stuarts is now let to a market
gardener! Are there no true-hearted Scotchmen left, who will redeem it from such desecration?

L. M. M. R.

