It is somewhat singular that the writer of this notice never suspected that the author of the
second part, and the collector of the first part of the volume, was Samuel Colvil, whose celebrated
poem, The Whigg's Supplication, or the Scotch Hudibras, went through so many editions, from
1667 to 1796. This "mock poem", as the author terms it, turns upon the insurrection of the
Covenanters in Scotland in the reign of Charles the Second. An interesting notice of it, and
other imitations of Hudibras, will be found in the Retrospective Review, vol. iii. pp. 317-335.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

HUBERT LE SOEUR'S SIX BRASS STATUES.

In a curious MS. Diary of the early part of the seventeenth century, lately come into my possession,
I find the following entry concerning the sculptor, Hubert le Soeur:--

    "March 7. 1628. Had an interview with y^e famous and justly renowned
    artiste H. le Sueur, who, being late come to this countrie, I had never
    seene before. He showed me several famous statues in brasse."

This is probably the earliest notice of the celebrated pupil of John of Bologna after his settlement
in England. Dallaway, in his Anecdotes of the Arts in England (p. 395.), after stating that
Hubert le Soeur arrived here about the year 1630, says,--

    "If he was associated with Pierre Tacca, who finished the horse in the
    equestrian statue of Henry IV. in 1610, left incomplete on the death of
    his master, John of Bologna, two years preceding, he must have been far
    advanced in life. Three only of his works in bronze are now known with
    certainty to exist: the equestrian statue of Charles I. [at Charing
    Cross], a bust of the same monarch with a casque in the Roman style
    [now at Stourhead], and a statue in armour of William Herbert, Earl of
    Pembroke, Lord High Chamberlain and Chancellor of Oxford. The last was
    given to the University by T., Earl of Pembroke, about the time of the
    restoration."

The "several famous statues in brasse" alluded to by the writer of the Diary above quoted,
were probably those which afterwards ornamented the gardens of St. James's Palace. Peacham,
in his Complete Gentleman (2nd edit., 4to. 1634), having spoken of the collection of statues
at Arundell House, says:--

    "King Charles also, ever since his coming to the Crown, hath amply
    testified a royal liking of ancient Statues, by causing a whole army of
    foreign Emperors, Captains, and Senators, all at once to land on his
    coasts, to come and do him homage and attend him in his Palaces of
    Saint James and Somerset House. A great part of these belonged to the
    great Duke of Mantua; and some of the old Greek marble bases, columns,
    and altars were brought from the ruins of Apollo's temple at Delos, by
    that noble and absolutely complete gentleman, Sir Kenelm Digby, Kn^t.
    In the garden of St. James, there are also half a dozen brass
    statues, rare ones, cast by Hubert le Sueur, his Majesty's servant,
    now dwelling in St. Bartholomew's, London; the most industrious and
    excellent statuary, in all materials, that ever this country enjoyed.
    The best of them is the Gladiator, moulded from that in Cardinal
    Borghesi's Villa, by the procurement and industry of ingenious Master
    Gage. And at this present, the said Master Sueur hath divers other
    admirable moulds to cast in brass for his Majesty, and among the rest,
    that famous Diana of Ephesus. But the great Horse with his Majesty upon
    it, twice as great as the life, and now well nigh finished, will
    compare with that of the New Bridge at Paris, or those others at
    Florence and Madrid, though made by Sueur, his master John de Bologna,
    that rare workman, who not long since lived at Florence."

The bronze statue of the Gladiator originally stood (according to Ned Ward's London Spy) in
the Parade facing the Horse Guards. Dodsley (Environs, iii. 741.) says it was removed by Queen
Anne to Hampton Court, and from thence, by George the Fourth, to the private grounds of Windsor
Castle, where it now is. Query, What has become of the other five "famous statues in brass?"

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

BISHOP JEWELL'S LIBRARY.

What became of Bishop Jewell's library? Cassan mentions (Lives of Bishops of Salisbury, vol.
ii. p. 55.) that

    "He had collected an excellent library of books of all sorts, not
    excepting the most impertinent of the Popish authors, and here it was
    that he spent the greatest and the best part of his time," &c.

Bishop Jewell died Sept. 22. 1571.

In the Account Books of Magdalen College, Oxford, I find the following items:--

    "A. D. 1572. Solut. D^{no} Præsidi equitanti Sarisbur. pro libris per
    billam, iij^{li} xvi^s.

    "Solut. pro libris D^{ni}, episcopi Sar., c^{li}.

    "A. D. 1574. Solut per Dom. Præsidem pro libris M^{ri} Jewell,
    xx^{li}."

Whether these books were a portion only, or the whole of the library of Bishop Jewell, I am
unable to discover; nor am I aware at present whether Bishop Jewell's autograph is in any of
the books of Magdalen College Library. The president was Lawrence Humphrey, author of a Life
of Jewell.

MAGDALENENSIS.

{55}

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LOW WINDOW.

The low windows in the chancel of so many of our ancient churches have proved a fruitful source
of discussion among archæologists, and numerous theories have been advanced respecting their
use. Perhaps the words of the chameleon in the fable might be addressed to many who have attempted
to account for their existence, "You all are right and all are wrong"--right in your supposition
that they were thus used; but wrong in maintaining that this was the exclusive purpose. Some
example, in fact, may be adduced irreconcileable with any particular conjecture, and sufficient
to overturn every theory which may be set up. One object assigned is, the distribution of alms;
and it is surely reasonable to imagine that money collected at the offertory should have been
given to paupers from the chancel through this convenient aperture. The following passage from
the Ecclesiologist, quoted in page 441. of "NOTES AND QUERIES," has induced me to bring this
subject forward:--

    "In them (churchyards) prayers are not now commonly poured forth to
    God, nor are doles distributed to his poor."

Now it must be admitted that relief could scarcely be given to a crowd of importunate claimants
without the interposition of some barrier; and where could a more appropriate place be found
than the low window? Can any of your readers, therefore, oblige me with some information upon
these points? Where were the alms bestowed, if not here? An almonry is described in some recent
works as "a building near the church." What authority is there for such an assertion, and do
any examples of such structures remain? What evidence is there that this business was transacted
in the churchyard, in the porch, or in any particular part of the edifice?

Although these mysterious openings are probably, with one or two exceptions in Normandy, peculiar
to this country, it is desirable to ascertain where the poor on the Continent usually receive
such charitable donations. In an interior of a Flemish cathedral, by an artist of the sixteenth
century, a man is represented in the act of delivering bread to a number of eager beggars,
from a sort of pew; showing, at least, as above remarked, that some such protection was requisite.

