LAMBERT B. LARKING. Ryarsh Vicarage. Dec. 14. 1849.

The Talisman of Charlemagne.--I beg to refer your correspondent, on the subject of Charlemagne's
Talisman, to what professes to be a correct representation of this antique relic, in The Illustrated
London News, of March 8th, 1845; but it is not there described as "a small nut, in a gold filigree
envelopment," and gives the idea of an ornament much too large for the finger or even wrist
of any lady: that paper says,--

   "This curious object of virtu is described in the
    Parisian journals as, 'la plus belle relique de
    l'Europe;' and it has, certainly, excited considerable
    interest in the archæological and religious circles of
    the continent. The talisman is of fine gold, of round
    form, as our illustration shows, set with gems, and in
    the centre are two rough sapphires, and a portion of
    the Holy Cross; besides other relics brought from the Holy Land."

The rest of the description much resembles your correspondent's, and asserts the talisman to
be at that time the property of Prince Louis Napoleon, then a prisoner in the château of Ham.

S.A.M.

Sayers the Caricaturist.--In Wright's England under the House of Hanover, vol. ii. p. 83 n.,
it is stated that James Sayer, the caricaturist, "died in the earlier part of the present century,
no long time after his patron, Pitt." In Sepulchral Reminiscences of a Market Town, by Mr.
Dawson Turner (Yarmouth, 8vo. 1848), p. 73 n., the caricaturist is called Sayers, and is said
to have died on the 20th of April, 1823.

C.H. COOPER. Cambridge, Dec. 29. 1849.

May-Day.--To what old custom does the following passage allude?

MELANION.

[Our correspondent will find much curious illustration of this now obsolete custom in Strutt's
Sports and Pastimes p. 357. (ed. Hone), where the preceding passage from the Spectator is quoted;
and we are told "these decorations of silver cups, tankards, &c. were borrowed for the purpose,
and hung round the milk pails (with the addition of flowers and ribands), which the maidens
carried upon their heads when they went to the houses of their customers, and danced in order
to obtain a small gratuity from each of them." In Tempest's Cryes of London there is a print
of a well-known merry milk-maid, Kate Smith, dancing with the milk pail decorations upon her
head. See also Hone's Every Day Book, i. p. 576.]

Dr. Dee's Petition.--There is no mention of Dr. Dee's petition to King James in the list of
his works in Tanner's Bibliotheca Britannica; but in Beloe's Anecdotes, vol. ii. p. 263., is
an account of the preface to a scarce work of his, in which he defends himself from the charge
of being a conjurer, or caller of divels, &c.

Tanner mentions his Supplication to Queen Mary for the Recovery of Ancient Writings and Monuments.

I fear, however, that your correspondent is {188} acquainted with these more easily obtained
accounts of Dr. Dee's works.

the Dictionary of M. l'Abbé Ladoocat states that he died in England, A.D. 1607, at the age
of 81; so that his petition to James must have been made at the close of his life.

HERMES.

Lines quoted by Goethe.--I beg to inform your correspondent "TREBOR," that he will find the
lines quoted by Goethe in his Autobiography, in Rochester's Satire against Mankind.

J.S.

Queen Mary's Expectations.--Most persons have heard of the anxiety of Queen Mary I., for the
birth of a child, and of her various disappointments; but many may not be aware that among
the Royal Letters in the State Paper Office, are letters in French, prepared in expectation
of the event, addressed by Queen Mary, without date, except "Hampton Court, 1555" (probably
about May), to her father-in-law, the Emperor Charles V., to Henry II., King of France, to
Eleonora, Queen Dowager of France, to Ferdinand I., King of Bohemia, to Mary, the Queen Dowager
of Bohemia, to the Doge of Venice, to the King of Hungary, and to the Queen Dowager of Hungary,
announcing to each the birth of her child, the word being so written fil, as to admit of being
made filz, or of an easy alteration to the feminine fille, if necessary.

J.E.

Ken's Morning and Evening Hymns.--I saw it mentioned in a review in the Guardian some few weeks
ago, as one merit of the last edition of the Book of Common Prayer, published by Eyre and Spottiswoode,
that it had restored Bishop Ken's Morning and Evening Hymns to their original purity.

I have no means of accurately testing this assertion by reference to any undoubted version
of the date of the original publication, but I have no doubt that this might easily be done
through the medium of your paper; and I think you will agree with me that, if it should be
substantiated, not only is credit due to the Queen's printers, but also that it is an example
which ought to be followed, without exception, in all future editions of the Prayer Book.

The variations, which I have noted in the ordinary version of the Hymns, as given in other
Prayer Books, are too numberous to be inserted here, not to mention the omission of several
stanzas, three in the Morning Hymn, together with the Doxology, and one in the Evening Hymn.

If they be false readings, no doubt they have been allowed to creep in inadvertently, and need
only pointing out to be corrected. It occurred to me that this might be done more effectually
in your columns, and I venture to hope that you will not consider it a task unworthy the high
aim which you have in view in your admirable publication.

OXONIENSIS.

[Bishop Ken's Morning and Evening Hymns have been restored in Messrs. Eyre and Spottiswoode's
last rubricated edition of the Common Prayer, as far as was practicable; they were carefully
collated with the original, and all variations corrected, except those which would materially
affect immemorial use. The entire hymns are of great length, but all those verses which have
been at all generally sung in churches are to be found in the edition to which we refer.

We may take this opportunity of noticing that the Queen's printers have lately restored the
lesser Saints' Days to the kalendar in their smaller editions of the Common Prayer. We are
not aware of any other similar editions in which the kalendar appears thus complete.]

Etymology of "Daysman."--What is the etymology of Daysman, which, in the Book of Job, and in
some of our provincial dialects, means a mediator or arbitrator?

MARK ANTONY LOWER.

[NARES defines Daysman, an umpire or arbitrator, from his fixing a day for decision; and adds,
"Mr. Todd shows that day sometimes meant Judgment." Jacob, in his Law Dictionary, tells us,
"Days-man signifies, in the North of England, an arbitrator or person chosen to determine an
affair in dispute, who is called a Dies-man or Days-man." Jacob's definition may be again illustrated
from NARES:--"In Switzerland (as we are informed by Simlerus) they had some common arbitrators,
or dayesmen, in every towne, that made a friendly composition betwixt man and man."--Burton, Anat.]

Roland Monoux.--In answer to your correspondent "M", p. 137., the monumental brass in his possession
is, no doubt, from the church at Edmonton, Middlesex. Lysons (Environs of London, vol. ii.
p. 263.), in his description of Edmonton Church, says, "Near the door is a brass plate, with
some English verses to the memory of ROLAND MONOUX (no date)." He subjoins, in a note, "arms--on
a chevron betw. 3 oak-leaves as many bezants, on a chief 2 anchors, a market for difference.
On the brass plate are some English verses, nowise remarkable."

These arms (omitting the chief) are those borne by the Baronet Monnoux of Sandy in Bedfordshire
(extinct in 1814), who was descended from Sir George Monox, of Walthamstow, Lord Mayor of London,
who died in 1543, to whom and his lady there are brasses in Walthamstow Church. ROLAND of Edmonton
was doubtless of the same family. I am not able to give an opinion of the date of the brass
in question; but it might be readily conjected from the style of its execution.

Your readers will, I am sure, all unite with me in commendation of your correspondent "M's"
correct feeling in offering to restore this monument to its original site. I hope "M's" example
will find many followers. There are hundreds of {189} these pillaged brasses in the hands of
"collectors," and your admirable publication will have effected a great public good, if it
shall have been instrumental in promoting their restoration.

Cambridge, Jan. 1. 1850. E. VENTRIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ancient Motto.--In reference to a query (No. 6. p. 93.), and a reply (No. 7. p. 104.), permit
me to remark, that St. Augustine, the celebrated Bishop of Hippo, was the person who caused
to be engraved on his table the distich against detractors.

The Benedictine editors subjoin two readings of the pentameter:--

    "Hac mensa indignam noverit esse suam."
    "Hanc mensam vetitam noverit esse sibi."

LLEWELYN ST. GEORGE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Cresswell and Miss Warneford.--At p. 157. of the "NOTES AND QUERIES," your correspondent
"B." inquires about a pamphlet relating to the marriage, many years ago, of Mr. Cresswell and
Miss Warneford. "P.C.S.S." cannot give the precise title of that pamphlet in question; but
he is enabled to state, on the authority of Watts (Biblioth. Brit.), and on that of his old
friend Sylvanus Urban (Gent. Mag. vol. xvii. p. 543.), that it was published in London, towards
the end of the year 1747, and that the very remarkable and very disgraceful transactions to
which it refers were afterwards (in 1749) made the subject of a novel, called Dalinda, or The
Double Marriage. Lond. 12mo. Price threepence.

The gentleman who was the hero of this scandalous affair was Mr. Thomas Estcourt Cresswell,
of Pinkney Park, Wilts, M.P. for Wootton Bassett. He married Anne, the sole and very wealthy
heiress of Edward Warneford, Esq. As it cannot be the object of the "NOTES AND QUERIES" to
revive a tale of antiquated scandal, "P.C.S.S." will not place upon its pages the details of
this painful affair--the cruel injury inflicted upon Miss Scrope (the lady to whom Mr. Cresswell
was said to have been secretly married before his union with Miss Warneford)--and the base
and unmanly contrivance by which, it was stated, that he endeavoured to keep possession of
both wives at the same time. Miss Scrope appears to have retained, for a considerable time,
a deep sense of her injuries; for in 1749 she published a pamphlet, in her own name, called
Miss Scrope's Answer to Mr. Cresswell's Narrative. (Lond. Baldwin. Price 2s. 6d.)

If "B." should be desirous of further information, he is referred, by "P.C.S.S.," to the General
Evening Post of Oct. 3. and 31. 1747, to the Gentleman's Magazine for that month and year,
and to the same work, vol. xix. pp. 192. 288.

P.C.S.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

Little as public attention has of late years been devoted to commentating upon Pope, his writings
and literary history, there are no doubt many able and zealous illustrators of them among lovers
of literature for its own sake: and many a curious note upon the Bard of Twickenham and his
works will probably be evoked by the announcement, that now is the moment when they may be
produced with most advantage, when Mr. Murray is about to bring forth a new edition of Pope,
under the able and experienced editorship of Mr. Croker. Besides numerous original inedited
letters, Mr. Croker's edition will have the advantage of some curious books bought at the Brockley
Hall sale, including four volumes of Libels upon Pope, and a copy of Ruffhead's Life of him,
with Warburton's manuscript notes.

No one has rendered better service to the study of Gothic architecture in this country than
Mr. J.H. Parker, of Oxford. The value of his admirable Glossary of Terms used in Architecture,
is attested by the fact, that it has already reached a fourth edition, and that another will
soon be called for. But we doubt whether he has done any thing better calculated to promote
this interesting branch of Archæology than by the production of his Introduction to the Study
of Gothic Architecture, which--originally written as part of a series of elementary lectures
recommended by the Committee of the Oxford Architectural Society to be delivered to the junior
members, and considered useful and interesting by those who heard them--is now published at
the request of the Society. A more interesting volume on the subject, or one better calculated
to give such a knowledge of it, as is essential to any thing like a just appreciation of the
peculiar characteristics of our church architecture, could scarcely have been produced, while
its compact size and numerous illustrations fit it to become a tourist's travelling companion.

We have great pleasure in directing attention to the advertisement inserted in another column
respecting some improvements about to be introduced into the GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE. This venerable
periodical has maintained its station uninterruptedly in our literature from the year 1731.
From the times of Johnson and Cowper it has been the medium by which many men of the greatest
eminence have communicated with the public. At all times it has been the sole depository of
much valuable information of a great variety of kinds. We are confident that under the new
management {190} it will put forth fresh claims to the favour of the public. Many writers of
high reputation in historical and antiquarian literature are henceforth to be enlisted in its
service. We shall look for the forthcoming number with great interest.

Scheible, of Stuttgart, who is doubtless known to our readers as the publisher of some very
curious works illustrative of the popular literature of Germany of the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries, has just commenced a new Library of Magic, &c., or Bibliothek der Zanber-Geheimnisse-und
Offenbarungs-Bucher. The first volume of it is devoted to a work ascribed to that prince of
magicians, our old familiar, Dr. Faustus, and bears the imposing title Doktor Johannes Faust's
Magia Naturalis et Innaturalis, oder Dreifacher Höllenzwang, leiztes Testament und Siegelkunst.
It is taken from a MS. of the last century, filled with magical drawings and devices enough
to summon back again from the Red Sea all the spirits that ever were laid in it. It is certainly
a curious book to publish in the middle of the nineteenth century.

Messrs. Sotheby and Co. will sell the extensive and valuable Collection of MSS. in all languages
formed by the late Mr. Rodd, on Monday the 4th of February, and five following days. The catalogue
deserves the attention of all collectors of manuscripts, as it is, as far as circumstances
will admit, a classified one. There are upwards of one thousand lots in the sale--many of a
very curious and interesting character. There are Greek and Latin versions of the Scriptures,
manuscripts of the 13th century, Ruding's original collections for his History of the Coinage
of Great Britain; which work, it is stated, contains only a very small portion of the materials
he had brought together. One lot consists of a mass of documents and papers contained in eight
large packing cases, and weighing from ten to fifteen hundred weight, of the families of Eyre,
of Derbyshire and Berkshire, and their intermarriages from the reign of Henry II. to the present
time. Well may Mr. Sotheby talk of their proving a source of amusement to any person having
room to sort them, and time to devote to their arrangement.

Messrs. Puttick and Simpson, of Piccadilly, commence their sales on Monday next, with a four
days' miscellaneous sale of works on theology, history, classics, voyages and travels, and
standard works in foreign and English general literature. They have some important sales coming
on, of which our readers shall have due notice. Fleet Street."

Messrs. Waller have also forwarded to us a Catalogue recently published by them, which contains
some curious "Manuscripts, Historical Documents, and Autograph Letters." 1763.

HUDDESFORD'S WYCCAMICAL CHAPLET. 8vo. London, 1801.

Odd Volumes.

NARES' LIFE OF LORD BURLEIGH. 4to. Vol. III. (In boards.) DODD'S CHURCH HISTORY. Small folio,
1739. Vol. II. (Or Vol. III. would be given for it.)

KNIGHT'S ILLUSTRATED EDITION OF ARABIAN NIGHTS. (Last part.)

LEYBOURN'S MATHEMATICAL REPOSITORY. New Series. Vols. IV. V. VI. London. 1819, 1830, 1835.

THE LIVERPOOL APOLLONIUS. No. I. by J.H. SWALE. 1823.

MR. HICKSON'S interesting Paper upon "Marlowe," in our next number.

The Sale Catalogue of Dr. Graham's Library reached us too late for notice.

We are again compelled to omit many Notes, Queries, and answers to Queries, as well as Answers
to Correspondents.

       *       *       *       *       *

{191} Illustrated by the Etching Club.

"That edition of the Poetical Works which had the benefit of Mr. Bolton Corney's care and judgment
in its preparation; and which, apart from the grace and beauty of the Illustrations contributed
to it by the Etching Club, is by far the most correct and careful of the existing editions
of Goldsmith's poetry."--Forster's Life of Goldsmith, p. 699.

London: LONGMAN, BROWN, BREEN, AND LONGMANS;

Of whom may be had, uniform with the above in size and price,

THOMSON'S SEASONS. Edited by BOLTON CORNEY. With Wood Engravings, by Members of the Etching Club.

       *        *        *        *        *

Just published, a New Edition, Three Vols., crown 8vo., 1l. 11s. 9d., of

THE DRAMATIC WORKS OF KIT MARLOWE, with some Account of his Life and Writings by the Rev. ALEXANDER
DYCE.

WILLIAM PICKERING, 177. Piccadilly.

       *        *        *        *        *

Just published, Part I. of THE DECORATIVE ARTS of the MIDDLE AGES. By HENRY SHAW, F.S.A. The
object of the present publication is to exhibit, by means of a series of carefully executed
Engravings (taken from some of the best authorities now remaining) the peculiar features, and
general characteristics of Decorative Art, as applied to the various materials on which it
was employed, whether for sacred or domestic purposes, from the Byzantine, or early Christian
period, to the decline of that termed the Renaissance.

A Number will appear on the 1st of each month, containing Four Plates, one of which will be
coloured. Imperial 8vo., price 3s.; and in imperial 4to., price 6s.; to be completed in Twenty-four
Parts.

A more detailed prospectus, and list of Mr. Shaw's other works, may be had of the Publisher,
or through any Bookseller.

WILLIAM PICKERING, 177. Piccadilly.

       *        *        *        *        *

Just published, price 4s. 6d.

PINACOTHECÆ HISTORICÆ SPECIMEN; sive Illvstrivm qvorvundam ingenia, mores, fortvnæ, ad Inscriptionvm
formam expressæ. Avctore F. KILVERT, A.M. Pars Secvnda.

