The history saith that he gave Lancelot forty knights in charge, and that he is come into an
island where King Madeglant was.  Or ever he knew of his coming, Lancelot had cut off his retreat,
for he cut his cables and beat his anchors to pieces and broke up his ships.  After that, he
struck among the people of Madeglant, and slew as many of them as he would, he and his knights.
The King thought to withdraw him back, both him and his fellowship, into safety as he wont,
but he found himself right ill bested. Lancelot drove him toward the sea, whither he fled,
but only to find himself no less discomfit there, and slew him in the midst of his folk, and
all his other knights were slain and cast into the sea.  This island was freed of him by Lancelot,
and from thence he went to the other islands that Madeglant had conquered and set again under
the false Law, and there did away the false Law from them that had been set thereunder by fear
of death, and stablished the land in such sort as it had been tofore.  He roved so long from
one island to another that presently he came to Albanie where he had succoured them at first.

XV.

When they of the land saw him come, they well knew that the King of Oriande was dead and the
islands made free, whereof made they great joy.  The land was some deal emptied of the most
puissant and the strongest, for they were dead along with their lord. Lancelot had brought
with him some of the best knights and most puissant.  He was come with a great navy into the
land and began to destroy it.  They of the land were misbelievers, for they believed in false
idols and in false images.  They saw that they might not defend the land, sith that their lord
was dead.  The more part let themselves be slain for that they would not renounce the evil
Law, and they that were minded to turn to God were saved.  The kingdom was right rich and right
great that Lancelot conquered and attorned to the Law of Our Lord in such wise. He made break
all the false images of copper and fatten wherein they had believed tofore, and whereof false
answers came to them of the voices of devils.  Thereafter he caused be made crucifixes and
images in the likeness of Our Lord, and in the likeness of His sweet Mother, the better to
confirm them of the kingdoms in the Law.

XVI.

The strongest and most valiant of the land assembled one day and said that it was high time
a land so rich should no longer be without a King.  They all agreed and came to Lancelot and
told him how they would fain that he should be King of the realm he had conquered, for in no
land might he be better employed, and they would help him conquer other realms enow.  Lancelot
thanked them much, but told them that of this land nor of none other would he be King save
by the good will of King Arthur only; for that all the conquest he had made was his, and by
his commandment had he come thither, and had given him his own knights in charge that had helped
him to reconquer the lands.

XVII.

King Claudas had heard tell how Lancelot had slain the King of Oriande and that none of the
islands might scarce be defended against him.  He had no liking of him, neither of his good
knighthood nor of his conquest, for well remembered he of the land that he had conquered from
King Ban of Benoic that was Lancelot's father, and therefore was he sorry of the good knighthood
whereof Lancelot was everywhere held of worth and renown, for that he was tenant of his father's
land.  King Claudas sent a privy message to Briant and bore him on hand that, and he might
do so much as that King Arthur should forbid Lancelot his court, and that it were ill with
him with the King, he would have much liking thereof and would help him betimes to take vengeance
on his enemies, for, so Lancelot were forth of his court, and Messire Gawain, the rest would
scarce abide long time, and thus should they have all their will of King Arthur's land. Briant
sent word back to King Claudas that Messire Gawain and Messire Ywain began to hold them aloof
from the court, and that as for most part of the other he need not trouble him a whit, for
he might so deal as that in short time Lancelot should be well trounced, would they or nould they.

XVIII.

Tidings are come to King Arthur's court that the King of Oriande is dead and his people destroyed,
and that Lancelot hath conquered his kingdom and slain the King, and reconquered all the lands
wherein he had set the false Law and the false believe by his force and by dread of him.  And
the more part say in the court that they of the realm of Oriande nor those of the other islands
will not let Lancelot repair to court, and are doing their endeavour to make him King; and
nought is there in the world, and he command them, they will not do, and that never was no
folk so obedient to any as are they of all these lands to him. Briant of the Isles cometh one
day privily to King Arthur, and saith: "Sir," saith he, "Much ought I to love you, for that
you have made me Seneschal of your land; whereby meseemeth you have great affiance in me, and
my bounden duty is it to turn aside that which is evil from you and to set forward your good
everywhere, and, did I not so, no whit loyal should I be towards you.

XIX.

"Tidings are come to me of late that they of the kingdom of Oriande and Albanie and of the
other islands that are your appanages have all leagued together, and have sworn and given surety
that they will aid one another against you, and they are going presently to make Lancelot their
King, and will come down upon your land as speedily as they may wheresoever he may dare lead
them, and they have sworn their oath that they will conquer your kingdom just as you now hold
it, and, so you be not garnished against them betimes, you may have thereof sore trouble to
your own body as well as the loss whereof I tell you."

"By my head," saith the King, "I believe not that Lancelot durst think this, nor that he would
have the heart to do me evil."

"By my head," saith Briant, "Long time have I had misgivings both of this and of him, but one
ought not to tell one's lord all that one knows, for that one cannot be sure either that it
be not leasing or that folk wish to meddle in his affairs out of envy. But nought is there
in the world that I will conceal from you henceforward for the love that you bear me and for
that you have affiance in me, and so may you well have, for I have abandoned my land for you
that marched with your own, whereby you may sorely straiten your enemies, for well you know
that in your court is there no knight of greater puissance than am I."

XX.

"By my head," saith the King, "I am fain to love you and hold you dear, nor shall you never
be removed from my love nor from my service for nought that may be said of any, so manifestly
have I seen your goodness and your loyalty.  I will bid Lancelot by my letters and under my
seal that he come to speak with me, for sore need have I thereof, and when he shall be here
we will take account of this that you have told me, for this will I not, that he nor none other
that may be my knight shall dare rise in arms against me, for such power ought lord of right
to have over his knight, and to be feared and dreaded of him, for elsewise is he feeble, and
lordship without power availeth nought."

XXI.

The King sent his letters by his messenger to Lancelot.  The messenger sought him until he
found him in the kingdom of Oriande, and delivered him the letters and the seal of the King.
So soon as he knew that which the letters say, he took leave of them of the land, that were
right sorrowful.  He departed thence and came back to Cardoil, bringing with him all the knights
that he had in charge, and told the King that he had reconquered for him all the islands, and
that the King of Oriande was dead and that his land was attorned to the Law of Our Lord.  The
King bade Briant of the Isles that he should make forty knights come armed under their cloaks
ready to take Lancelot prisoner as soon as he should command them.  The tidings come to Lancelot,
there where he was in his hostel, that the King had made knights come all armed to the palace.
Lancelot bethought him that some need had arisen and that he would arm himself likewise, so
he made him be armed and came to the hall where the King was.

"Sir," saith Briant, "Lancelot thinketh him of something, for he hath armed himself at his
hostel, and is come hither in such manner and at such time without your leave, and he may do
something more yet.  You ought well to ask him wherefore he wisheth to do you evil, and in
what manner you have deserved it."

He biddeth him be called before him.  "Lancelot," saith the King, "Wherefore are you armed?"

"Sir, I was told that knights had come in hither armed, and I was feared lest some mishap had
befallen you, for I would not that any evil should betide you."

"You come hither for another thing," saith the King, "according to that I have been given to
wit, and, had the hall been void of folk, you hoped to have slain me."

The King commandeth him be taken forthwith without gainsay of any.  The knights that were armed
did off their cloaks and leapt toward him on all sides, for they durst not disobey the King's
commandment, and the more part were men of Briant of the Isles.

XXII.

Lancelot seeth them coming towards him with their keen swords and saith, "By my head, an evil
guerdon do you return me of the services I have done for you."

The knights come to him all together swords drawn, and run upon him all at once.  He goeth
defending himself, as far as the wall of the hall, whereof he maketh a castle to his back,
but before he cometh thither he hath slain or wounded seven.  He began to defend himself right
stoutly on all sides, but they gave him great buffets of their swords, and no fair play is
it of thirty or forty blows to one.  Nor ought none believe that one single knight might deliver
himself from so many men, seeing that they were eager to take him and do him a hurt.  Lancelot
defended him the best he might, but the numbers were against him, and, anyway, or ever he let
himself be taken he sold himself right dear, for of the forty knights he harmed at least a
score, and of them was none that was not sore wounded and the most part killed; and he caught
Briant of the Isles, that was helping to take him, so sore that he made his sword drink the
blood of his body, in such sort that the wound was right wide.  The knights laid hold on Lancelot
on all sides, and the King commanded that none should harm him, but that they should bring
him to his dungeon in the prison. Lancelot marvelled him much wherefore the King should do
this, nor might he understand wherefore this hatred was come so lately. He is put in the prison
so as the King hath commanded.  All they of the court are sorry thereof, save Briant and his
knights, but well may he yet aby it dear, so God bring Lancelot out or prison. Some say, "Now
is the King's court lost, sith that Messire Gawain and the other knights have thus forsaken
it, and Lancelot is put in prison for doing well, ill trust may the others have therein."

They pray God yet grant Briant of the Isles an evil guerdon, for well know they that all this
is of his procurement.  And of an evil guerdon shall he not fail so God protect Lancelot and
bring him forth of prison.

BRANCH XXXI.

TITLE I.

Thereupon the story is silent of Lancelot, and cometh back to Perceval that had not heard these
tidings, and if he had known them, right sorrowful would he have been thereof.  He is departed
from his uncle's castle that he hath reconquered, and was sore grieved of the tidings that
the damsel that was wounded brought him of his sister that Aristor had carried away by force
to the house of a vavasour.  He was about to take her to wife and cut off her head on the day
of the New Year, for such was his custom with all them that he took.  Perceval rideth one day,
all heavy in thought, and taketh his way as fast as he may toward the hermitage of his uncle
King Hermit.  He is come thither on an eventide, and seeth three hermits issued forth of the
hermitage. He alighteth and goeth to meet them so soon as he seeth them.

"Sir," say the hermits, "Enter not in, for they are laying out a body there."

"Who is it?" saith Perceval.

"Sir," say the hermits, "It is the good King Pelles that Aristor slew suddenly after mass on
account of one of his nephews, Perceval, whom he loveth not, and a damsel is laying out the
body there within."

When Perceval heard the news or his uncle that is dead, thereof was he right grieved at heart,
and on the morrow was he at his uncle's burial. When mass was sung, Perceval would have departed,
as he that had great desire to take vengeance on him that had done him such shame.

II.

Thereupon behold you the damsel that is his.

"Sir," saith she, "Full long time have I been seeking you. Behold here the head of a knight
that I carry hanging at the bow of my saddle, in this rich casket of ivory that you may see,
and by none ought he to be avenged but by you alone.  Discharge me thereof, fair Sir, of your
courtesy, for I have carried it too long a time, and this King Arthur knoweth well and Messire
Gawain, for each hath seen me at court along with the head, but they could give me no tidings
of you, and my castle may I not have again until such time as he be avenged."

"Who, then, was the knight, damsel?" saith Perceval.

"Sir, he was son of your uncle Bruns Brandalis, and were he on live, would have been one of
the best knights in the world."

"And who slew him, damsel?" saith Perceval.

"Sir, the Knight of the Deep Forest that leadeth the lion, foully in treason there where he
thought him safe.  For had he been armed in like manner as was the other, he would not have
slain him."

"Damsel," said Perceval, "This grieveth me that he hath slain him, and it grieveth me likewise
of mine uncle King Hermit, whom I would avenge more willingly than all the men in the world,
for he was slain on my account."

III.

"Most disloyal was this knight, and foully was he fain to avenge him when he slew a holy man,
a hermit that never wished him ill on account of me and of none other.  Right glad shall I
be and I may find the knight, and so, methinketh, will he be of me, for me he hateth as much
as I do him, as I have been told, and Lord God grant, howsoever he may take it, that I may
find him betimes."

"Sir," saith the damsel, "So outrageous a knight is he that no knight is there in the world
so good but he thinketh himself of more worth than he, and sith that he hateth you with a will,
and he knew that you were here, you and another, or you the third, he would come now at once,
were he in place and free."

"Damsel," saith Perceval, "God give him mischief of his coming, come whensoever he may!"

"Sir," saith she, "The Deep Forest there, where the Red Knight leadeth the lion, is towards
the castle of Aristor, and, or ever you come by adventure into the forest, you may well hear
some tidings of him!"

BRANCH XXXII. He saw pass before him two squires, and each carried a wild deer trussed behind
him that had been taken by hounds.  Perceval cometh to them a great pace and maketh them abide.

"Lords," saith he, "Whither will you carry this venison?"

"Sir," say the squires, "To the castle of Ariste, whereof Aristor is lord."

"Is there great throng of knights at the castle?" saith Perceval.

"Sir," say the squires, "Not a single one is there, but within four days will be a thousand
there, for Messire is about to marry, whereof is great preparation toward.  He is going to
take the daughter of the Widow Lady, whom he carried off by force before her castle of Camelot,
and hath set her in the house of one of his vavasours until such time as he shall espouse her.
But we are right sorrowful, for she is of most noble lineage and of great beauty and of the
most worth in the world. So is it great dole that he shall have her, for he will cut her head
off on the day of the New Year, sith that such is his custom."

"And one might carry her off," saith Perceval, "would he not do well therein?"

"Yea, Sir!" say the squires, "Our Lord God would be well pleased thereof, for such cruelty
is the greatest that ever any knight may have.  Moreover, he is much blamed of a good hermit
that he hath slain, and every day desireth he to meet the brother of the damsel he is about
to take, that is one of the best knights in the world.  And he saith that he would slay him
more gladly than ever another knight on live."

"And where is your lord?" saith Perceval, "Can you give me witting?"

"Yea, Sir," say the squires, "We parted from him but now in this forest, where he held melly
with a knight that seemeth us to be right worshipful and valiant, and saith that he hath for
name the Knight Hardy.  And for that he told Aristor that he was a knight of Perceval's and
of his fellowship, he ran upon him, and then commanded us to come on, and said that he should
vanquish him incontinent.  We could still hear just now the blows of the swords yonder where
we were in the forest, and Aristor is of so cruel conditions that no knight may pass through
this forest, but he is minded to slay him."

II.

When Perceval heard these tidings, he departed from the squires, and so soon as they were out
of sight he goeth as great pace thither as they had come thence.  He had ridden half a league
Welsh when he heard the buffets they were dealing one another on the helm with their swords,
and right well pleased was he for that the Knight Hardy held so long time melly with Aristor
in whom is there so much cruelty and felony. But Perceval knew not to what mischief the Knight
Hardy had been wounded through the body of a spear, so that the blood rayed out on all sides;
and Aristor had not remained whole, for he was wounded in two places. So soon as Perceval espied
them, he smiteth his horse of his spurs, lance in rest, and smiteth Aristor right through the
breast with such force that he maketh him lose his stirrups and lie down backwards over the
hinder bow of the saddle.  After that saith he: "I am come to my sister's wedding, of right
ought it not to be made without me."

III.

Aristor, that was full hardy, set himself again betwixt the bows of the saddle in great wrath
when he seeth Perceval, and cometh towards him like as if he were wood mad, sword in hand,
and dealeth him such a buffet on the helm as that it is all dinted in thereby.  The Knight
Hardy draweth back when he seeth Perceval, for he is wounded to the death through the body.
He had held the stout so long time that he could abide no more.  But or ever he departed, he
had wounded Aristor in two places right grievously. Perceval felt the blow that was heavy,
and that his helmet was dinted in.  He cometh back to Aristor and smiteth him so passing strongly
that he thrusteth the spear right through his body and overthroweth him and his horse all of
a heap. Then he alighteth over him and taketh off the coif of his habergeon and unlaceth his
ventail.

"What have you in mind to do?" said Aristor.

"I will cut off your head," said Perceval, "and present it to my sister whom you have failed."

"Do not so!" saith Aristor, "But let me live, and I will forgo my hatred."

"Your hatred might I well abide henceforward, meseemeth," saith Perceval, "But one may not
abide you any longer, for well have you deserved this, and God willeth not to bear with you."

He smiteth off his head incontinent and hangeth it at his saddle-bow, and cometh to the Knight
Hardy, and asketh him how it is with him.

"Sir," saith he, "I am very nigh my death, but I comfort me much of this that I see you tofore
I die."

Perceval is remounted on his horse, then taketh his spear and leaveth the body of the knight
in the midst of the launde, and so departeth forthwith and leadeth the Knight Hardy to a hermitage
that was hard by there, and lifteth him down of his horse as speedily as he may.  After that,
he disarmed him and made him confess to the hermit, and when he was shriven of his sins and
repentant, and his soul had departed, he made him be enshrouded of the damsel that followed
him, and bestowed his arms and his horse on the hermit for his soul, and the horse of Aristor
likewise.

IV.

When mass had been sung for the knight that was dead, and the body buried, Perceval departed.

"Sir," saith the damsel that followed him, "Even now have you much to do.  Of this cruel knight
and felonous you have avenged this country. Now, God grant you find betimes the Red Knight
that slew your uncle's son.  I doubt not but that you will conquer him, but great misgiving
have I of the lion, for it is the cruellest beast that saw I ever, and he so loveth his lord
and his horse as never no beast loved another so much, and he helpeth his lord right hardily
to defend him."

V.

Perceval goeth toward the great Deep Forest without tarrying, and the damsel after.  But, or
ever he came thither, he met a knight that was wounded right sore, both he and his horse.

"Ha, Sir," saith he to Perceval, "Enter not into this forest, whence I have scarce escaped
with much pains.  For therein is a knight that had much trouble of rescuing me from his lion;
and no less am I in dread to pass on forward, for there is a knight that is called Aristor,
that without occasion runneth upon the knights that pass through the forest."

"Of him," saith the damsel, "need you have no fear, for you may see his head hanging at the
knight's saddle-bow."

VI.

"Certes," saith the knight, "Never yet was I so glad of any tidings I have heard, and well
know I that he that slew him is not lacking of great hardiment."

The knight departeth from Perceval, but the lion had wounded his horse so passing sore in the
quarters that scarce could he go.

"Sir Knight," saith Perceval, "Go to the hermit in the Deep Forest, and say I bade him give
you the destrier I left with him, for well I see that you have sore need thereof, and you may
repay him in some other manner, for rather would he have something else than the horse."

The knight goeth him much thanks of this that he saith.  He cometh to the hermit the best he
may, and telleth him according as he had been charged, and the hermit biddeth him take which
destrier he will for the love of the knight that had slain the evil-doer, that did so many
evil deeds in this forest.

"And I will lend you them both twain if you will."

"Sir," saith the knight, "I ask but for one of them."

