But we are getting somewhat too critical, and consequently as much out of our element as modern
aeronauts, who are no sooner in the air than they seem to think of their descent. We shall
not, however, impair the pleasure of the reader by giving him a foretaste of the whole plot
of Penelope; but we shall rather confine ourselves to a few portrait-specimens of characters,
whose drawing will, we hope, attract the general reader; presuming, as we do, that its claims
to his attention will be found to outweigh dozens of the scandalous chronicles of high fashion.
We are not told whether the parties ate with silver or steel forks, or burned wax or tallow;
but those characters must be indeed poorly drawn which do not enable the reader to satisfy
himself about such trifles, allowing that he thinks them worth his study.

An outline of the characters may not be unacceptable. The scene lies principally in the villages
of Neverden and Smatterton; and between their rectors Dr. Greendale and Mr. Darnley, and their
families; the Earl of Smatterton, of Smatterton Hall; Lord Spoonbill, his son; Sir George Aimwell,
of Neverden Hall; Penelope Primrose, the heroine, who is placed by her father under the care
of Dr. Greendale, whilst Mr. Primrose seeks to repair his fortune in the Indies; and Robert
Darnley, Penelope's suitor, also for sometime in the Indies, who is thwarted in his views by
Lord Spoonbill, and a creature named colonel Crop, &c.

In the early part of the narrative, Dr. Greendale dies, and Penelope is removed from Smatterton
to London, where she is to be brought out as a singer, under the patronage of the Countess
of Smatterton, and Spoonbill is first struck with her charms, and resolves to frustrate his
absent rival.

The roguery of a postboy named Nick Muggins, who is employed by the noble suitor to intercept
letters, and the aid of Crop, who acts as a sort of go-between, are put in requisition for
this purpose; but the villany of the latter is finely defeated in his mistaking a silly, forward
girl, Miss Glossop, for Penelope, and accordingly prevailing on her to elope with him to Lord
Spoonbill's villa, where the blunder is soon discovered by his lordship, who in return is horsewhipped
by the father of Miss Glossop; and Darnley and Penelope are eventually married.

There are two or three adjuncts, as Peter Kipperson, a "march of intellect" man, Erpingham,
one of Spoonbill's companions in debauchery, Ellen Fitzpatrick, one of his victims, Dr. Greendale's
successor, Charles Pringle; and Zephaniah Pringle, a literary coxcomb of the first order.

The portrait of Dr. Greendale is of high finish--full of the truth and amiability of the Christian
character--one who regarded the false distinctions of society in their proper light, and knew
how to set a right value upon the influence of good example, and who was "loved and respected
for the steadiness and respectability of his character; for the integrity, purity, simplicity,
and sincerity of his life." At the same time, the doctor is finely contrasted with his wife,
who possessed the common failing of paying homage to her illustrious neighbours to obtain their
notice and patronage, and who felt flattered by a collateral branch of the Smattertons accepting
an invitation to her table. Of the heroine, we quote the author's outline:--

Penelope Primrose exceeded the middle stature, that her dark blue eyes were shaded by a deep
and graceful fringe, that her complexion was somewhat too pale for beauty, but that its paleness
was not perceptible as a defect whenever a smile illumined her countenance, and developed the
dimples that lurked in her cheek and underlip. Her features were regular, her gait exceedingly
graceful, and her voice musical in the highest degree. Seldom, indeed, would she indulge in
the pleasure of vocal music, but when she did, as was sometimes the case to please the Countess
of Smatterton, her ladyship, who was a most excellent judge, used invariably to pronounce Miss
Primrose as the finest and purest singer that she had ever heard.

The character of Lord Spoonbill is struck out with singular felicity and spirit:--

Lord Spoonbill was not one of those careless young men who lose at the university what they
have gained at school; one reason was, that he had little or nothing to lose; nor was his lordship
one of those foolish people who go to a university and study hard to acquire languages which
they never use, and sciences which they never apply in after-life. His lordship had sense enough
to conclude that, as the nobility do not talk Greek, he had no occasion to learn it; and as
hereditary legislators have nothing to do with the exact sciences, it would be a piece of idle
impertinence in him to study mathematics. But his lordship had heard that hereditary legislators
did occasionally indulge in other pursuits, and for those pursuits he took especial care to
qualify himself. In his lordship's cranium, the organ of exclusiveness was strongly developed.
We do not mean that his head was so constructed internally, as to exclude all useful furniture,
but that he had a strong sense of the grandeur of nobility and the inseparable dignity which
attaches itself to the privileged orders. The only instances in which he condescended to persons
in inferior rank, were when he was engaged at the race-course at Newmarket, or when he found
that condescension might enable him to fleece some play-loving plebeian, or when affairs of
gallantry were concerned. In these matters no one could be more condescending than Lord Spoonbill.
We should leave but an imperfect impression on the minds of our readers if we should omit to
speak of his lordship's outward and visible form. This was an essential part of himself which
he never neglected or forgot; and it should not be neglected or forgotten by his historian.
He was tall and slender, his face was long, pale and thin, his forehead was narrow, his eyes
large and dull, his nose aquiline, his mouth wide, his teeth beautifully white and well formed,
and displayed far more liberally than many exhibitions in the metropolis which are only "open
from ten till dusk." His lips were thin, but his whiskers were tremendously thick. Of his person
he was naturally and justly proud. Who ever possessed such a person and was not proud of it?

Colonel Crop was only Colonel Crop; he enjoyed the rank of colonel, and that was all the rank
that he could boast; he was tolerated at the castle; he dined occasionally with his lordship;
and occasionally partook of the pleasure of shooting the birds which were cultivated on his
lordship's estate. In town, he patronised the countess' routs, and in the country he was a
companion for the earl, when not otherwise engaged. He was proud of the earl's acquaintance,
though he was not weak enough to suppose that he was more than tolerated. The haughtiest of
the great do sometimes pick up such acquaintances as Colonel Crop, and they cannot easily get
rid of them.

We must pass over Peter Kipperson, an excellent whole-length portrait of a man who makes a
noise in these marching times, and show in Sir George Aimwell, of Neverden Hall, Bart., who
was descended from a long line of illustrious ancestry, and was a wholesale poulterer, and
one of the great unpaid. Not that we mean by this expression to insinuate that the retail poulterers
did not pay him for what they had: we merely mean to say, that the preserve-worshiping, springgun-setting,
poacher-committing baronet administered justice for nothing; and with reverence be it spoken,
that was quite as much as it was worth. The worthy baronet was a most active magistrate, peculiarly
acute in matters of summary conviction; and thinking it a great pity that any rogue should
escape, or that any accused, but honest man, should lose an opportunity of clearing his character
by means of a jury of his fellow-countrymen, he never failed to commit all that were brought
before him.

Sir George professed Whig politics; these were hereditary in his family, but by no means constitutional
in him as an individual. Therefore he passed for a very moderate Whig; for one who would not
clog the wheels of government. In short, he was no more a Whig than a game preserver ought
to be; and that, as our readers know, is not much. He took especial pains to keep the parish
clear of vagrants and paupers; and by his great activity he kept down the poor-rates to a moderate
sum. Sir George, though a professed Whig, was not very partial to the education of the lower
orders, and he always expressed himself well pleased when he met with a country booby who could
neither read nor write. For this reason Nick Muggins, the postboy, was a great favourite with
him. Our worthy baronet could not see the use of reading, and he thought it a great piece of
affectation for country gentlemen to have libraries. His own books, for he had a few, were
huddled together in a light closet, where he kept his guns and sporting tackle. There was a
Lady Aimwell, wife to Sir George; but this lady was a piece of still life, of whom the neighbours
knew nothing, and for whom her husband cared nothing.

Everybody in the neighbourhood remembers the impressive admonition which Sir George gave to
an old man who was convicted at the quarter sessions of having a bit of string in his pocket,
and therefore strongly suspected of a design of a malicious nature against the game.

"John Carter," said the worthy baronet, "let me address to you a few words on the sin of poaching.
Poaching, John Carter--is--is a sin of which too many are guilty, owing to the lenity of our
most excellent laws. I think that if everybody thought, as I think, of the moral heinousness
of this offence, nobody would be guilty of it. Poaching is not yet made felony; but there is
no saying how soon it may be made so, if the crime be persisted in. It is a moral offence of
the greatest enormity, and is one of those crying, national sins, which may one day or other
bring down the vengeance of heaven on our guilty country. Now, John Carter, if you go to gaol
for six months, I hope the tread-mill and the chaplain will work a thorough reformation in
your morals."

Of course the contact of Sir George with such a man as Kipperson, affords great merriment:
ex. gr. part of a dinner scene at Neverden Hall:--

Now Peter was a very literary man, who thought there was nothing worth living for but science
and literature; and having somewhere read that it was impossible to take shelter in a shower
of rain with such a man as Burke, without discovering him to be a man of genius, Peter was
desirous of continually showing off, and was instant in season and out of season. Therefore
when sitting at the table of the worthy baronet, he assailed the magistrate with various scientific
subjects, but all to no purpose; there was no response from his worthy host. Endeavouring to
adapt himself to the moderate talents and circumscribed reading of the baronet, he next started
the subject of novels and novel reading, taking care to insinuate that, though Sir George might
not read the trash of circulating libraries, he might be acquainted with some of our best novels.
To this at last the baronet replied--"Oh, yes; I remember many years ago reading a novel called
Tom Jones, written by a Bow Street officer. I recollect something about it--it was very low
stuff--I forget the particulars, but it was written in the manner of servants."

