ITALY

                  THE MAGIC LAND

                        BY

                  LILIAN WHITING

  AUTHOR OF "THE FLORENCE OF LANDOR," "THE LAND OF
  ENCHANTMENT," "THE WORLD BEAUTIFUL," ETC.

         "And, under many a yellow star,
         We dropped into the Magic Land!"

         Illustrated from Photographs

                      BOSTON
             LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY
                       1907

Copyright, 1907,

BY LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY.

All rights reserved

Published November, 1907

THE GRIFFITH-STILLINGS PRESS, BOSTON, U.S.A.

  TO
  ELLA

  (MRS. FRANKLIN SIMMONS)

  WHOSE EARTHLY FORM REPOSES IN THE BEAUTIFUL ROMAN CEMETERY,
  WHERE POETIC ASSOCIATIONS WITH KEATS AND SHELLEY HAUNT
  THE AIR,--UNDER THE SCULPTURED "ANGEL OF THE RESURRECTION,"
  WITH ITS MAJESTIC SYMBOLISM OF THE
  TRIUMPH OF IMMORTALITY,--BUT WHOSE RADIANT
  PRESENCE STILL TRANSFIGURES THE LIFE THAT
  HELD HER IN IMMORTAL DEVOTION,--
  THESE PAGES ARE INSCRIBED,

  WITH THE UNFORGETTING LOVE OF

                    LILIAN WHITING.

ROME, ITALY, May Days, 1907.

    "Nor Life is ever lord of Death,
    And Love can never lose its own."

PREFATORY NOTE

That Florence, the "Flower City," receives only a passing allusion in this record of various
impressions that gleam and glow through the days after several visits to the Magic Land, is
due to the fact that in a previous volume by the writer--one entitled "The Florence of Landor"--the
lovely Tuscan town with its art, its ineffable beauty, and its choice social life, formed the
subject matter of that volume. Any attempt to portray Florence in the present book would savor
only of the repetition of loves and enthusiasms already recorded in the previous work in which
Walter Savage Landor formed the central figure. For that reason no mention of Florence, beyond
some mere allusion, is attempted in these pages, which only aim to present certain fragmentary
impressions of various sojourns in Italy, refracted through the prism of memory. Whatever inconveniences
or discomfort attend the traveller swiftly fade, and leave to him only the precious heritage
of resplendent sunset skies, of poetic association, of artistic beauty. In spirit he is again
lingering through long afternoons in St. Peter's till the golden light through the far windows
of the tribune is merged into the dusk of twilight in which the vast monumental groups gleam
wraith-like. Again he is ascending the magnificent Scala Regia, and lingering in the Raphael
Stanze, or in the wonderful sculpture galleries of the Vatican, or sauntering in the sunshine
on the Palatine. In memory he is again spellbound by ancient and mediæval art. In the line
of modern sculpture the work of Franklin Simmons in Rome is a feature of Italy that haunts
the imagination. No lover of beauty would willingly miss his great studios in the Via San Nicolo
da Tolentino, with their wealth of ideal creations that contribute new interest to the most
divine of all the arts.

    "The world of art is an ideal world,--
    The world I love, and that I fain would live in;
    So speak to me of artists and of art,
    Of all the painters, sculptors, and musicians
    That now illustrate Rome."

The mystic charm of the pilgrimage to Assisi; the romance that reflects itself in the violet
seas and flaming splendors of the sky on the shores of Ischia and Capri; the buried treasures
of Amalfi; the magnetic impressiveness of the Eternal City,--all these enter into life as new
forces to build and shape the future into undreamed-of destinies.

                    L. W.

  THE BRUNSWICK, BOSTON,
  October Days, 1907.

CONTENTS

                                                          PAGE

  I THE PERIOD OF MODERN ART IN ROME                         3

  II SOCIAL LIFE IN THE ETERNAL CITY                       127

  III DAY-DREAMS IN NAPLES, AMALFI, AND CAPRI              227

  IV A PAGE DE CONTI FROM ISCHIA                           281

  V VOICES OF ST. FRANCIS OF ASSISI                        341

  VI THE GLORY OF A VENETIAN JUNE                          389

  VII THE MAGIC LAND                                       423

  INDEX                                                    459

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

  Temple, Taormina                       Frontispiece in Photogravure

  Angel, Church of San Andrea delle Fratte, Rome            Page   12

  Detail from the Stuart Monument, St. Peter's, Rome          "      24

  Tomb of Clement XIII, St. Peter's, Rome                     "      32

  "The Genius of Death," Detail from the Tomb
  of Clement XIII, St. Peter's, Rome                          "      43

  "La Fortuna," Accadémia di San Luca, Rome                   "      47

  Spanish Steps, Piazza Trinità dei Monti, Rome               "      72

  Tomb of Pio Nono, San Lorenzo (Fuori le Mura) Rome          "      75

  "The Dance of the Pleiades"                                 "      92

  "Grief and History," Detail from Naval Monument,
  Washington                                                  "     105

  "The Genius of Progress Leading the Nations"                "     108

  "Mother of Moses"                                           "     112

  "Valley Forge"                                              "     116

  La Pieta, St. Peter's, Rome                                 "     120

  Villa Medici, Rome                                          "     134

  Entrance to Villa Pamphilia-Doria, Rome                     "     159

  Statue of Christ, Ancient Church of San Martina, Rome       "     193

  Castel San Angelo and St. Peter's, Rome                     "     204

  Porta San Paola, Pyramid of Caius Cestius, Rome             "     216

  Castel Sant'Elmo, Naples                                    "     231

  Ancient Temple, Baiæ                                        "     241

  Ischia, from the Sea                                        "     282

  La Rocca, Ischia                                            "     294

  Castello di Alfonso, Ischia                                 "     306

  Detail from "Parnassus," Raphael Stanze, Palazzo
  Vaticano, Rome                                              "     311

  Vittoria Colonna, Galleria Buonarroti, Florence             "     320

  San Francescan Convent-Church, Assisi                       "     346

  St. Francis d'Assisi, The Duomo, Assisi                     "     366

  Santa Chiara, The Duomo, Assisi                             "     375

  Baiæ and Ischia, from Camaldoli                             "     382

  Ruins of the Greek Theatre, Taormina, Sicily                "     429

  Ponte Vecchio, Florence                                     "     434

  Campo Santo, Genoa                                          "     453

    "Rest we content if whispers from the stars
    In wafting of the incalculable wind
    Come blown at midnight through our prison-bars."

THE MAGIC LAND

    By woodland belt, by ocean bar,
      The full south breeze our forehead fanned;
    And, under many a yellow star,
      We dropped into the Magic Land.

           *       *       *       *       *

    We heard, far-off, the siren's song;
      We caught the gleam of sea-maids' hair;
    The glimmering isles and rocks among
      We moved through sparkling purple air.

    Then Morning rose, and smote from far
      Her elfin harps o'er land and sea;
    And woodland belt, and ocean bar
      To one sweet note sighed--"Italy!"

                    OWEN MEREDITH.

                    OMAR KHAYYAM.

ROME, as the picturesque city of the Popes in the middle years of the nineteenth century, was
resplendent in local color. It was the Rome of sunny winters; the Rome of gay excursions over
that haunted sea of the Campagna to pictorial points in the Alban and Sabine hills; the Rome
of young artist life, which organized impromptu festas with Arcadian freedom, and utilized
the shadow or the shelter of ruined temples or tombs in which to spread its picnic lunches
and bring the glow of simple, friendly intercourse into the romantic lights of the poetic,
historic, or tragic past. There were splendid Catholic processions and ceremonials that seemed
organized as a part of the stage scenery that ensconced itself, also, with the nonchalance
of easy possession, in the vast salons of historic palaces where tapestried walls and richly
painted ceilings, arched high overhead, with statues dimly seen in niches here and there, and
the bust of some crowned Antoninus, or radiant Juno, gleaming from a shadowy corner, all made
up the mise-en-scène of familiar evenings. There were lingering hours in the gardens of the
Villa Medici into whose shades one strolled by that beguiling path along the parapet on Monte
Pincio, through the beautiful grove with its walks and fountains. The old ilex bosquet, with
its tangled growth and air of complete seclusion, had its spell of fascination. Then, as now,
the elevated temple, at the end of the main path, seemed the haunt of gods and muses. In all
the incidental, as well as the ceremonial social meeting and mingling, art and religion were
the general themes of discussion. This idyllic life--

    "Comprehending, too, the soul's
    And all the high necessities of art"--

has left its impress on the air as well as its record on many a page of the poet and the romancist.
The names that made memorable those wonderful days touch chords of association that still vibrate
in the life of the hour. For the most part the artists and their associates have gone their
way--not into a Silent Land, a land of shadows and vague, wandering ghosts--but into that realm
wherein is the "life more abundant," of more intense energy and of nobler achievement; the
realm in which every aspiration of earth enlarges its conception and every inspiration is exalted
and endowed with new purpose; the realm where, as Browning says,--

    "Power comes in full play."

The poet's vision recognizes the truth:--

    "I know there shall dawn a day,
      --Is it here on homely earth?
    Is it yonder, worlds away,
      Where the strange and new have birth,
    That Power comes in full play?"

The names of sculptor, painter, and poet throng back, imaged in that retrospective mirror which
reflects a vista of the past, rich in ideal creation. Beautiful forms emerge from the marble;
pictorial scenes glow from the canvas; song and story and happy, historic days are in the very
air. To Italy, land of romance and song, all the artists came trooping, and

    "Under many a yellow Star"

they dropped into the Magic Land. If the wraiths of the centuries long since dead walked the
streets, they were quite welcome to revisit the glimpses of the moon and contribute their mystery
to the general artistic effectiveness of the Seven-hilled City. All this group of American
idealists, from Allston and Page to Crawford, Story, Randolph Rogers, Vedder, Simmons, and
to the latest comer of all, Charles Walter Stetson, recognized something of the artist's native
air in this Mecca of their pilgrimage.

It was, indeed, quite natural, on account of the stupendous work of Michael Angelo and the
unrivalled museums of the Vatican, that Rome should have become pre-eminently the artistic
centre of the nineteenth century and should have attracted students and lovers of art from
all parts of the world. The immortal works of the two great periods, the Greek and the Renaissance,--the
art that was forever great because it was the outgrowth of profound religious conviction,--were
enshrined in the churches and the galleries of Rome. The leading countries of Europe sent here
their aspiring students and established permanent academies for their residence. Germany, France,
and England were thus represented. Thorwaldsen came as a pensioner from the Academy of Fine
Arts in Copenhagen; and it was during his life, and that of the noble Canova, that Rome began
to be recognized as the modern world-centre of art. Was it not a natural sequence that the
early painters and sculptors who came to study under the stimulating influences of the great
masterpieces of the past should linger on in the city whose very air became to them the breath
of inspiring suggestion? Where but in Rome would have come to Crawford the vision of his "Orpheus"
and of his noble Beethoven? or to Story his "Libyan Sibyl," and that exquisite group, "Into
the Silent Land"? or to Vedder his marvellous creations of "The Fates Gathering in the Stars,"
the "Cumæan Sibyl," or the "Dance of the Pleiades"? to Simmons his triumphant "Angel of the
Resurrection," and "The Genius of Progress Leading the Nations"? or to Stetson that ineffable
vision of "The Child," and that wonderful group called "Music"? whose coloring Titian or Giorgione
might well mistake for their own.

Under the Pontifical régime the general character of Rome was mediæval and religious. The perpetual
festas of the church made the streets constantly picturesque with their processions of monks,
and friars, and priests, and these wonderful blendings of color and scenic effect stimulated
the artistic sense. The expenses of living in Rome were then only a fraction of what the cost
is at the present time; and as the city was the resort of the wealthy and cultured few, the
artists were surrounded by the stimulus of critical appreciation and of patronage. Their work,
their dreams, were the theme of literary discussion, and focussed the attention of the polite
world. Their studios were among the important interests to every visitor in the Eternal City.
In those days the traveller did not land with his touring car at Naples, make "the run" to
Rome in a record that distanced any possibilities of railroad trains, pass two or three days
in motoring about the city and its environs, seeing the exterior of everything in a dissolving
view and the interior of nothing,--as within this time, at least, he must flash on in his touring
car to Florence. On the contrary, the traveller proceeded to Rome with serious deliberation,
and with a more realizing sense of undertaking a journey than Walter Wellman experiences in
attempting to fly in his aero-car to the North Pole and send his observations across the polar
seas by wireless telegraphy. The visitor went to Rome for a winter, for a year, and gave himself
up to leisurely impressions. Rome was an atmosphere, not a spectacle, and it was to be entered
with the lofty and reverent appreciation of the poet's power and the artist's vision.

In Rome, Thomas Cole painted some of his best pictures; and in Rome or Florence wrought a long
list of painters and sculptors. Whether in the Eternal City or in the Flower City, their environment
was alike Italy--the environment of the Magic Land. Among the more prominent of all these devotees
of Beauty several nationalities were represented. Each might have said of his purpose, in the
words of William Watson:--

    "I follow Beauty; of her train am I,
      Beauty, whose voice is earth and sea and air;
    Who serveth, and her hands for all things ply;
      Who reigneth, and her throne is everywhere."

Among these artists there flash upon memory the names of Vanderlyn, Benjamin West, Allston,
Rauch, Ange, Veit, Tenerani, Overbeck, Schadow, Horace Vernet, Thorwaldsen, John Gibson, Hiram
Powers, Crawford, Page, Clark Mills, Randolph Rogers, William Rinehart, Launt Thompson, Horatio
and Richard Greenough, Thomas Ball, Anne Whitney, Larkin G. Mead, Paul Akers, William Wetmore
Story, Harriet Hosmer, J. Rollin Tilton, and, later, Elihu Vedder, Moses Ezekiel, Franklin
Simmons, Augustus St. Gaudens, and Charles Walter Stetson, the name of Mr. Stetson linking
the long and interesting procession with the immediate life of to-day. Of these later artists
Story, Miss Hosmer, Ezekiel, Vedder, Simmons, and Stetson are identified with Rome as being
either their permanent or their prolonged residence. Mr. St. Gaudens was a transient student,
returning to his own country to pursue his work; and of two young sculptors, Hendrick Christian
Anderson and C. Percival Dietsch, time has not yet developed their powers beyond an experimental
stage of brilliant promise.

The Rome of the artists of clay and canvas was also the Rome of the poets and romancists, of
authors in all lines of literary achievement. How the names of the procession of visitors and
sojourners in the Eternal City, from Milton, Goethe, and Mme. de Staël to Henry James, Marion
Crawford, Richard Bagot, and Grace Ellery Channing (Mrs. Charles Walter Stetson), gleam from
that resplendent panorama of the modern past of Rome! Like the words in electric fire that
flash out of the darkness in city streets at night, there shine the names of Shelley and of
Keats; of Gladstone, on whom in one memorable summer day, while strolling in Italian sunshine,
there fell a vision of the sacredness and the significance of life and its infinite responsibility
in the fulfilment of lofty purposes. What charming associations these guests and sojourners
have left behind! Hawthorne, embodying in immortal romance the spirit of the scenic greatness
of the Eternal City; Margaret Fuller, Marchesa d'Ossoli, allying herself in marriage with the
country she loved, and living in Rome those troubled, mysterious years that were to close the
earthly chapter of her life; Robert and Elizabeth Browning, the wedded poets, who sang of love
and Italy; Harriet Beecher Stowe, finding on the enchanted Italian shores the material which
she wove with such irresistible attraction into the romance of "Agnes of Sorrento;" Longfellow,
with his poet's vision, transmuting every vista and impression into some exquisite lyric; Lowell,
bringing his philosophic as well as his poetic insight to penetrate the untold meaning of Rome;
Thomas William Parsons, making the country of Dante fairly his own; Thackeray, with his brilliant
interpretation of the comédie humaine; Emerson, who, oblivious of all the glories of art or
the joys of nature, absorbed himself in writing transcendental letters to his eccentric, but
high-souled aunt, Mary Moody Emerson; Ruskin, translating Italian art to Italy herself; Dr.
Samuel Gridley Howe and his poet wife, Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, in the first flush of their bridal
happiness, when Mrs. Howe's impassioned love for the Seven-hilled City inspired many a lyric
that mirrors the Roman atmosphere of that day; Kate Field, with a young girl's glad enthusiasm
over the marvellous loveliness of a Maytime in Rome, and her devotion to those great histrionic
artists, Ristori and Salvini; George Stillman Hillard, leaving to literature the rich legacy
of his "Six Months in Italy,"--a work that to this day holds precedence as a clear and comprehensive
presentation of the scenic beauty, the notable monumental and architectural art, and the general
life and resources of this land of painter and poet. Other names, too, throng upon memory--that
of William Dean Howells, painting Italian life in his "Venetian Days," and charming all the
literary world by his choice art; and among later work, the interesting interpretations of
Rome and of social life in Rome, by Marion Crawford, Henry James, and Richard Bagot,--in chronicle,
in romance, or in biographical record. During the last quarter of the nineteenth century, indeed,
the visitors to Rome--authors, artists, travellers of easy leisure--defy any numerical record.
Mrs. Louise Chandler Moulton, poet, romancist, and delightful raconteur as well, has recorded
some charming impressions of her various sojourns in Rome both in her "Random Rambles" and
in "Lazy Tours." Of the Palatine Hill we find her saying:--

     "Sometimes we go to the Palace of the Cæsars, and look off upon the
     heights where the snow lingers and the warm light rests, making
     them shine like the Delectable Mountains. Nearer at hand are the
     almond trees, in flower, or the orange trees, bright at once with
     their white, sweet blossoms and their golden fruit."

Mrs. Moulton writes of the "stately dwellers" in Rome whom time cannot change; and to whom,
whenever she returns, she makes her first visit; some of whom are in the mighty palace of the
Vatican and some of whom dwell in state in the Capitol.

     "The beautiful Antoninus still wears his crown of lotus in Villa
     Albani and the Juno whom Goethe worshipped reigns forever at the
     Ludovisi," she writes; "I can never put in words the pleasure I
     find in these immortals." Mrs. Moulton loved to wander in the Villa
     Borghese "before the place is thronged with the beauty and fashion
     of Rome as it is in the late afternoon. I do not wonder that Miriam
     and Donatello could forget their fate in these enchanted glades,"
     she wrote, "and dance as the sunbeams danced with the shadows.
     Sometimes I seem to see them where the sun sifts through the young
     green leaves, and her beauty--her human, deep-souled beauty--and
     his fantastic grace are the only things here that cannot change.

     "The walls will crumble; the busts of kings and heroes and poets
     will lose their contours, the lovely Roman ladies also grow old and
     fade, and vanish from sight and from memory; but still these two,
     hopeless yet happy, will dance in these wild glades immortally
     beyond the reach of the effacing years."

The visit to Rome of the Rev. Dr. Phillips Brooks--later the Bishop of Massachusetts--is immortalized
in the most lifelike portrait bust of the great preacher ever modelled; a bust in which the
genius of the sculptor, Franklin Simmons, found one of its noblest expressions, and has perpetuated,
with masterly power, the energy of thought, at once profound and intense, in the countenance
of Bishop Brooks. These, and many another whom the gods have loved and dowered with gifts,
rise before any retrospective glance over the comparatively recent past of Rome. Bishop Brooks
passed there the Holy Week of one Lenten season, and of the Miserere in the Sistine Chapel
he wrote that it was certainly the most wonderful music to which he had ever listened; and
he added:--

     "The Miserere in the Sistine, the Benediction from the balcony, the
     solemn moment of the elevation of the Host on Easter, and the
     illumination of St. Peter's, these all seem to reach very
     remarkably the great ideal of the central religious commemoration
     of Christendom."

It was in the winter of 1828 that Mr. Longfellow first visited Rome, which "is announced,"
he wrote, "by Nero's tomb," and he quotes Dupaty's lines:--

    "Quoi! c'est là Rome? quoi!
    C'est le tombeau de Neron qui l'annonce."

Mr. Longfellow expressed his love for the Eternal City, and in a personal letter[1] he said:--

     "I have been so delighted with Rome that I have extended my
     residence much beyond my original intention. There is so much in
     the city to delay the stranger; the villages in the environs are so
     beautiful, and there is such a quiet and stillness about everything
     that, were it in my power, I should be induced to remain the whole
     year round. You can imagine nothing equal to the ruins of Rome. The
     Forum and the Coliseum are beyond all I had ever fancied them; and
     the ruined temples and the mouldering aqueducts which are scattered
     over the Campagna; I do not believe there is a finer view in the
     world than that from the eastern gate of the city, embracing the
     Campagna, with its ruined aqueducts diverging in long broken
     arcades, and terminated by the sweep of the Albanian hills,
     sprinkled with their white villages, and celebrated in song and
     story! But the great charm of the scene springs from association;
     and though everything in Italy is really picturesque, yet strip the
     country of its historic recollections,--think merely of what it is,
     and not of what it has been,--and you will find the dream to be
     fading away.

     "You would be shocked at the misery of the people, especially in
     the Pope's dominions: but their element seems to be in rags and
     misery; and with the ceremonials of their religion and the holidays
     of the church, which average nearly three a week, they are
     poor--and lazy and happy. I mean, happy in their way."

In a later visit the poet was domiciled in an hotel on the Piazza Barberini, where the wonderful
view included then the entire city "to where St. Peter's dome darkens against the sunset."
Of this visit his brother, Rev. Samuel Longfellow, writes:--

     "Here Mr. Longfellow became for the season the centre of the group
     of American visitors and resident artists, whose well-known names
     need not be recounted. Here he made, also, acquaintances among the
     Italians,--especially the Duke of Sermoneta, the Dantean scholar,
     and Monsignore Nardi, of the papal court. The Pope himself he did
     not visit. An interesting acquaintance was that made with the Abbé
     Liszt, who was spending the winter in Rome, having rooms in the
     abandoned Convent of Santa Francesca, in the Forum. Calling there
     one evening, in company with Mr. Healy the artist, the inner door
     of the apartment was opened to them by Liszt himself, holding high
     in his hand a candle which illuminated his fine face. The picture
     was so striking that Mr. Longfellow begged his companion to put it
     upon canvas,--which he did; and the painting now hangs in the
     library of Craigie House. At a morning visit, Liszt delighted the
     party with a performance upon his Chickering pianoforte.

     "To see Rome, as all travellers know, is a work for many months;
     and it was pursued with tolerable diligence. But Mr. Longfellow was
     never a good sight-seer. He was impatient of lingering in picture
     galleries, churches, or ruins. He saw quickly the essential points,
     and soon tired of any minuter examination."

But long, indeed, before nineteenth-century artists and authors laid siege to the Eternal City,
in the far-away years of 1638, Milton visited Rome, and there still remains the tablet, on
the wall of the casa in the Via delle Quattro Fontane in which he stayed, a tablet bearing
an inscription giving the date of his visit; as, also, in Via Machella, there is an inscription
marking the place where Scott lived during his visit to Rome. Goethe made his memorable tour
to Italy in 1786--fourteen years before the dawn of the nineteenth century--and wrote: "I feel
the greatest longing to read Tacitus in Rome;" and again (an observation with which every visitor
to the Eternal City will sympathize) he noted:--

     "It grows more and more difficult for me to render an account of my
     residence in Rome, for as we always find the sea deeper the further
     we go, so it is with me in observation of this city.... Wherever we
     go and wherever we stand, we see about us a finished
     picture,--forms of every kind and style; palaces and ruins; gardens
     and wastes; the distant and the near houses; triumphal arches and
     columns,--often all so close together that they might be sketched
     on a single sheet. One should have a thousand points of steel with
     which to write, and what can a single pen do? and then in the
     evening one is weary and exhausted with the day of seeing and
     admiring. Here one reads history from within outward."

Chateaubriand, who in his earliest youth had visited America as the guest of Washington, passed
the winter of 1803-4 in Rome, and his pictorial transcriptions of the city and its environs
are among the most exquisite things in literary record. As, for instance, this description
of a sunset from Monte Mario:--

     "I was never weary of seeing, from the Villa Borghese, the sun go
     down behind the cypresses of Monte Mario, and the pines of the
     Villa Pamphili planted by Le Notre. I have stood upon the Ponte
     Molle to enjoy the sublime spectacle of the close of day. The
     summits of the Sabine hills appeared of lapis lazuli and pale gold,
     while their bases and sides were bathed in vapors of violet or
     purple. Sometimes lovely clouds, like fairy cars, borne along by
     the evening wind with inimitable grace, recall the mythological
     tales of the descent of the deities of Olympus. Sometimes old Rome
     seems to have spread all over the west the purple of her consuls
     and her Cæsars, beneath the last steps of the god of day. This rich
     decoration does not vanish so quickly as in our climate. When we
     think the hues are about to disappear they revive on some other
     point of the horizon; one twilight follows another and the magic of
     sunset is prolonged."

It was in the same year that Mme. de Staël visited Rome and recorded, in her glowing romance,
"Corinne," the impressions she received. In the spring of 1817 Lord Byron found in Rome the
inspiration that he transmitted into that wonderful line in "Childe Harold":--

    "The Niobe of Nations! There she stands."

It was two years later that Shelley passed the spring in the Seven-hilled City, retiring to
Leghorn later, to write his tragedy of "The Cenci."

