'It seems to me,' said he, as, after having cleared a space on the table and arranged the paper,
he began to sharpen his pencil with a table-knife, 'that you don't manage things as well as
you might.  If you was to make a list of just the things you MUST have before you went out
of a Saturday, you'd find the money would go much farther. Instead of doing that you just take
the money in your hand without knowing exactly what you're going to do with it, and when you
come back it's all gone and next to nothing to show for it.'

His wife made no reply: her head was bent over the child.

'Now, let's see,' went on her husband.  'First of all there's the rent. How much did you say
we owe?'

'Four weeks.  That's the three weeks you were out and this week.'

'Four sixes is twenty-four; that's one pound four,' said Easton as he wrote it down.  'Next?'

'Grocer, twelve shillings.'

Easton looked up in astonishment.

'Twelve shillings.  Why, didn't you tell me only the other day that you'd paid up all we owed
for groceries?'

'Don't you remember we owed thirty-five shillings last spring?  Well, I've been paying that
bit by bit all the summer.  I paid the last of it the week you finished your last job.  Then
you were out three weeks--up till last Friday--and as we had nothing in hand I had to get what
we wanted without paying for it.'

'But do you mean to say it cost us three shillings a week for tea and sugar and butter?'

'It's not only them.  There's been bacon and eggs and cheese and other things.'

The man was beginning to become impatient.

'Well,' he said, 'What else?'

'We owe the baker eight shillings.  We did owe nearly a pound, but I've been paying it off
a little at a time.'

This was added to the list.

'Then there's the milkman.  I've not paid him for four weeks.  He hasn't sent a bill yet, but
you can reckon it up; we have two penn'orth every day.'

'That's four and eight,' said Easton, writing it down.  'Anything else?'

'One and seven to the greengrocer for potatoes, cabbage, and paraffin oil.'

'Anything else?'

'We owe the butcher two and sevenpence.'

'Why, we haven't had any meat for a long time,' said Easton.  'When was it?'

'Three weeks ago; don't you remember?  A small leg of mutton,'

'Oh, yes,' and he added the item.

'Then there's the instalments for the furniture and oilcloth--twelve shillings.   A letter
came from them today.  And there's something else.'

She took three letters from the pocket of her dress and handed them to him.

'They all came today.  I didn't show them to you before as I didn't want to upset you before
you had your tea.'

Easton drew the first letter from its envelope.

                        CORPORATION OF MUGSBOROUGH
                    General District and Special Rates
                               FINAL NOTICE

  MR W. EASTON,

  I have to remind you that the amount due from you as under, in
  respect of the above Rates, has not been paid, and to request that
  you will forward the same within Fourteen Days from this date.  You
  are hereby informed that after this notice no further call will be
  made, or intimation given, before legal proceedings are taken to
  enforce payment.
                                       By order of the Council.
                                                          JAMES LEAH.
                                           Collector, No. 2 District.
          District Rate .......................... £- 13 11
          Special Rate ...........................    10  2

                                                   £1  4  1

The second communication was dated from the office of the Assistant Overseer of the Poor. 
It was also a Final Notice and was worded in almost exactly the same way as the other, the
principal difference being that it was 'By order of the Overseers' instead of 'the Council'.
It demanded the sum of £1 1 5 1/2 for Poor Rate within fourteen days, and threatened legal
proceedings in default.

Easton laid this down and began to read the third letter--

                           J. DIDLUM & CO LTD.
                        Complete House Furnishers
                       QUALITY STREET, MUGSBOROUGH

  MR W. EASTON,

  SIR:
  We have to remind you that three monthly payments of four shillings
  each (12/- in all) became due on the first of this month, and we
  must request you to let us have this amount BY RETURN OF POST.

  Under the terms of your agreement you guaranteed that the money
  should be paid on the Saturday of every fourth week.  To prevent
  unpleasantness, we must request you for the future to forward the
  full amount punctually upon that day.

                                              Yours truly,
                                           J. DIDLUM & CO. LTD

He read these communications several times in silence and finally with an oath threw them down
on the table.

'How much do we still owe for the oilcloth and the furniture?' he asked.

'I don't know exactly.  It was seven pound odd, and we've had the things about six months.
We paid one pound down and three or four instalments.  I'll get the card if you like.'

'No; never mind.  Say we've paid one pound twelve; so we still owe about six pound.'

He added this amount to the list.

'I think it's a great pity we ever had the things at all,' he said, peevishly.  'It would have
been better to have gone without until we could pay cash for them: but you would have your
way, of course.  Now we'll have this bloody debt dragging on us for years, and before the dam
stuff is paid for it'll be worn out.'

The woman did not reply at once.  She was bending down over the cradle arranging the coverings
which the restless movements of the child had disordered.  She was crying silently, unnoticed
by her husband.

For months past--in fact ever since the child was born--she had been existing without sufficient
food.  If Easton was unemployed they had to stint themselves so as to avoid getting further
into debt than was absolutely necessary.  When he was working they had to go short in order
to pay what they owed; but of what there was Easton himself, without knowing it, always had
the greater share.  If he was at work she would pack into his dinner basket overnight the best
there was in the house.  When he was out of work she often pretended, as she gave him his meals,
that she had had hers while he was out.  And all the time the baby was draining her life away
and her work was never done.

She felt very weak and weary as she crouched there, crying furtively and trying not to let him see.

At last she said, without looking round:

'You know quite well that you were just as much in favour of getting them as I was.  If we
hadn't got the oilcloth there would have been illness in the house because of the way the wind
used to come up between the floorboards.  Even now of a windy day the oilcloth moves up and down.'

'Well, I'm sure I don't know,' said Easton, as he looked alternatively at the list of debts
and the three letters.  'I give you nearly every farthing I earn and I never interfere about
anything, because I think it's your part to attend to the house, but it seems to me you don't
manage things properly.'

The woman suddenly burst into a passion of weeping, laying her head on the seat of the chair
that was standing near the cradle.

Easton started up in surprise.

'Why, what's the matter?' he said.

Then as he looked down upon the quivering form of the sobbing woman, he was ashamed.  He knelt
down by her, embracing her and apologizing, protesting that he had not meant to hurt her like that.

'I always do the best I can with the money,' Ruth sobbed.  'I never spend a farthing on myself,
but you don't seem to understand how hard it is.  I don't care nothing about having to go without
things myself, but I can't bear it when you speak to me like you do lately.  You seem to blame
me for everything.  You usen't to speak to me like that before I--before--Oh, I am so tired--I
am so tired, I wish I could lie down somewhere and sleep and never wake up any more.'

She turned away from him, half kneeling, half sitting on the floor, her arms folded on the
seat of the chair, and her head resting upon them. She was crying in a heartbroken helpless way.

'I'm sorry I spoke to you like that,' said Easton, awkwardly.  'I didn't mean what I said.
It's all my fault.  I leave things too much to you, and it's more than you can be expected
to manage.  I'll help you to think things out in future; only forgive me, I'm very sorry. 
I know you try your best.'

She suffered him to draw her to him, laying her head on his shoulder as he kissed and fondled
her, protesting that he would rather be poor and hungry with her than share riches with anyone
else.

The child in the cradle--who had been twisting and turning restlessly all this time--now began
to cry loudly.  The mother took it from the cradle and began to hush and soothe it, walking
about the room and rocking it in her arms.  The child, however, continued to scream, so she
sat down to nurse it: for a little while the infant refused to drink, struggling and kicking
in its mother's arms, then for a few minutes it was quite, taking the milk in a half-hearted,
fretful way. Then it began to scream and twist and struggle.

They both looked at it in a helpless manner.  Whatever could be the matter with it?  It must
be those teeth.

Then suddenly as they were soothing and patting him, the child vomited all over its own and
its mother's clothing a mass of undigested food. Mingled with the curdled milk were fragments
of egg, little bits of bacon, bread and particles of potato.

Having rid his stomach of this unnatural burden, the unfortunate baby began to cry afresh,
his face very pale, his lips colourless, and his eyes red-rimmed and running with water.

Easton walked about with him while Ruth cleaned up the mess and got ready some fresh clothing.
They both agreed that it was the coming teeth that had upset the poor child's digestion.  It
would be a good job when they were through.

This work finished, Easton, who was still convinced in his own mind that with the aid of a
little common sense and judicious management their affairs might be arranged more satisfactorily,
said:

'We may as well make a list of all the things we must pay and buy tomorrow.  The great thing
is to think out exactly what you are going to do before you spend anything; that saves you
from getting things you don't really need and prevents you forgetting the things you MUST have.
Now, first of all, the rent; two weeks, twelve shillings.'

He took a fresh piece of paper and wrote this item down.

'What else is there that we must pay or buy tomorrow?'

'Well, you know I promised the baker and the grocer that I would begin to pay them directly
you got a job, and if I don't keep my word they won't let us have anything another time, so
you'd better put down two shillings each for them.

'I've got that,' said Easton.

'Two and seven for the butcher.  We must pay that.  I'm ashamed to pass the shop, because when
I got the meat I promised to pay him the next week, and it's nearly three weeks ago now.'

'I've put that down.  What else?'

'A hundred of coal: one and six.'

'Next?'

'The instalment for the furniture and floor-cloth, twelve shillings.'

'Next?'

'We owe the milkman four weeks; we'd better pay one week on account; that's one and two.'

'Next?'

'The greengrocer; one shilling on account.'

'Anything else?'

'We shall want a piece of meat of some kind; we've had none for nearly three weeks.  You'd
better say one and six for that.'

'That's down.'

'One and nine for bread; that's one loaf a day.'

'But I've got two shillings down for bread already,' said Easton.

'Yes, I know, dear, but that's to go towards paying off what we owe, and what you have down
for the grocer and milkman's the same.'

'Well, go on, for Christ's sake, and let's get it down,' said Easton, irritably.

'We can't say less than three shillings for groceries.'

Easton looked carefully at his list.  This time he felt sure that the item was already down;
but finding he was mistaken he said nothing and added the amount.

'Well, I've got that.  What else?'

'Milk, one and two.'

'Next?'

'Vegetables, eightpence.'

'Yes.'

'Paraffin oil and firewood, sixpence.'

Again the financier scrutinized the list.  He was positive that it was down already.  However,
he could not find it, so the sixpence was added to the column of figures.

'Then there's your boots; you can't go about with them old things in this weather much longer,
and they won't stand mending again.  You remember the old man said they were not worth it when
you had that patch put on a few weeks ago.'

'Yes.  I was thinking of buying a new pair tomorrow.  My socks was wet through tonight.  If
it's raining some morning when I'm going out and I have to work all day with wet feet I shall
be laid up.'

'At that second-hand shop down in High Street I saw when I was out this afternoon a very good
pair just your size, for two shillings.'

Easton did not reply at once.  He did not much fancy wearing the cast-off boots of some stranger,
who for all he knew might have suffered from some disease, but then remembering that his old
ones were literally falling off his feet he realized that he had practically no choice.

'If you're quite sure they'll fit you'd better get them.  It's better to do that than for me
to catch cold and be laid up for God knows how long.'

So the two shillings were added to the list.

'Is there anything else?'

'How much does it all come to now?' asked Ruth.

Easton added it all up.  When he had finished he remained staring at the figures in consternation
for a long time without speaking.

'Jesus Christ!' he ejaculated at last.

'What's it come to?' asked Ruth.

'Forty-four and tenpence.'

'I knew we wouldn't have enough,' said Ruth, wearily.  'Now if you think I manage so badly,
p'raps you can tell me which of these things we ought to leave out.'

'We'd be all right if it wasn't for the debts,' said Easton, doggedly.

'When you're not working, we must either get into debt or starve.'

Easton made no answer.

'What'll we do about the rates?' asked Ruth.

'I'm sure I don't know: there's nothing left to pawn except my black coat and vest.  You might
get something on that.'

'It'll have to be paid somehow,' said Ruth, 'or you'll be taken off to jail for a month, the
same as Mrs Newman's husband was last winter.'

'Well, you'd better take the coat and vest and see what you can get on 'em tomorrow.'

'Yes,' said Ruth; 'and there's that brown silk dress of mine--you know, the one I wore when
we was married--I might get something on that, because we won't get enough on the coat and
vest.  I don't like parting with the dress, although I never wear it; but we'll be sure to
be able to get it out again, won't we?'

'Of course,' said Easton.

They remained silent for some time, Easton staring at the list of debts and the letters.  She
was wondering if he still thought she managed badly, and what he would do about it.  She knew
she had always done her best.  At last she said, wistfully, trying to speak plainly for there
seemed to be a lump in her throat: 'And what about tomorrow? Would you like to spend the money
yourself, or shall I manage as I've done before, or will you tell me what to do?'

'I don't know, dear,' said Easton, sheepishly.  'I think you'd better do as you think best.'

'Oh, I'll manage all right, dear, you'll see,' replied Ruth, who seemed to think it a sort
of honour to be allowed to starve herself and wear shabby clothes.

The baby, who had been for some time quietly sitting upon his mother's lap, looking wonderingly
at the fire--his teeth appeared to trouble him less since he got rid of the eggs and bacon
and potatoes--now began to nod and doze, which Easton perceiving, suggested that the infant
should not be allowed to go to sleep with an empty stomach, because it would probably wake
up hungry in the middle of the night. He therefore work him up as much as possible and mashed
a little of the bread and toasted cheese with a little warm milk.  Then taking the baby from
Ruth he began to try to induce it to eat.  As soon, however, as the child understood his object,
it began to scream at the top of its voice, closing its lips firmly and turning its head rapidly
from side to side every time the spoon approached its mouth.  It made such a dreadful noise
that Easton at last gave in.  He began to walk about the room with it, and presently the child
sobbed itself to sleep. After putting the baby into its cradle Ruth set about preparing Easton's
breakfast and packing it into his basket.  This did not take very long, there being only bread
and butter--or, to be more correct, margarine.

Then she poured what tea was left in the tea-pot into a small saucepan and placed it on the
top of the oven, but away from the fire, cut two more slices of bread and spread on them all
the margarine that was left; then put them on a plate on the table, covering them with a saucer
to prevent them getting hard and dry during the night.  Near the plate she placed a clean cup
and saucer and the milk and sugar.

In the morning Easton would light the fire and warm up the tea in the saucepan so as to have
a cup of tea before going out.  If Ruth was awake and he was not pressed for time, he generally
took a cup of tea to her in bed.

Nothing now remained to be done but to put some coal and wood ready in the fender so that there
would be no unnecessary delay in the morning.

The baby was still sleeping and Ruth did not like to wake him up yet to dress him for the night.
Easton was sitting by the fire smoking, so everything being done, Ruth sat down at the table
and began sewing. Presently she spoke:

'I wish you'd let me try to let that back room upstairs: the woman next door has got hers let
unfurnished to an elderly woman and her husband for two shillings a week.  If we could get
someone like that it would be better than having an empty room in the house.'

'And we'd always have them messing about down here, cooking and washing and one thing and another,'
objected Easton; 'they'd be more trouble than they way worth.'

'Well, we might try and furnish it.  There's Mrs Crass across the road has got two lodgers
in one room.  They pay her twelve shillings a week each; board, lodging and washing.  That's
one pound four she has coming in reglar every week.  If we could do the same we'd very soon
be out of debt.'

'What's the good of talking?  You'd never be able to do the work even if we had the furniture.'

'Oh, the work's nothing,' replied Ruth, 'and as for the furniture, we've got plenty of spare
bedclothes, and we could easily manage without a washstand in our room for a bit, so the only
thing we really want is a small bedstead and mattress; we could get them very cheap second-hand.'

'There ought to be a chest of drawers,' said Easton doubtfully.

'I don't think so,' replied Ruth.  'There's a cupboard in the room and whoever took it would
be sure to have a box.'

'Well, if you think you can do the work I've no objection,' said Easton.  'It'll be a nuisance
having a stranger in the way all the time, but I suppose we must do something of the sort or
else we'll have to give up the house and take a couple of rooms somewhere.  That would be worse
than having lodgers ourselves.

'Let's go and have a look at the room,' he added, getting up and taking the lamp from the wall.

They had to go up two flights of stairs before arriving at the top landing, where there were
two doors, one leading into the front room--their bedroom--and the other into the empty back
room.  These two doors were at right angles to each other.  The wallpaper in the back room
was damaged and soiled in several places.

'There's nearly a whole roll of this paper on the top of the cupboard,' said Ruth.  'You could
easily mend all those places.  We could hag up a few almanacks on the walls; our washstand
could go there by the window; a chair just there, and the bed along that wall behind the door.
It's only a small window, so I could easily manage to make a curtain out of something.  I'm
sure I could make the room look quite nice without spending hardly anything.'

Easton reached down the roll of paper.  It was the same pattern as that on the wall.  The latter
was a good deal faded, of course, but it would not matter much if the patches showed a little.
They returned to the kitchen.

'Do you think you know anyone who would take it?' asked Ruth.  Easton smoked thoughtfully.

'No,' he said at length.  'But I'll mention it to one or two of the chaps on the job; they
might know of someone.'

'And I'll get Mrs Crass to ask her lodgers: p'raps they might have a friend what would like
to live near them.'

So it was settled; and as the fire was nearly out and it was getting late, they prepared to
retire for the night.  The baby was still sleeping so Easton lifted it, cradle and all, and
carried it up the narrow staircase into the front bedroom, Ruth leading the way, carrying the
lamp and some clothes for the child.  So that the infant might be within easy reach of its
mother during the night, two chairs were arranged close to her side of the bed and the cradle
placed on them.

'Now we've forgot the clock,' said Easton, pausing.  He was half undressed and had already
removed his slippers.

'I'll slip down and get it,' said Ruth.

'Never mind, I'll go,' said Easton, beginning to put his slippers on again.

'No, you get into bed.  I've not started undressing yet.  I'll get it,' replied Ruth who was
already on her way down.

'I don't know as it was worth the trouble of going down,' said Ruth when she returned with
the clock.  'It stopped three or four times today.'

'Well, I hope it don't stop in the night,' Easton said.  'It would be a bit of all right not
knowing what time it was in the morning.  I suppose the next thing will be that we'll have
to buy a new clock.'

He woke several times during the night and struck a match to see if it was yet time to get
up.  At half past two the clock was still going and he again fell asleep.  The next time he
work up the ticking had ceased. He wondered what time it was?  It was still very dark, but
that was nothing to go by, because it was always dark at six now.  He was wide awake: it must
be nearly time to get up.  It would never do to be late; he might get the sack.

He got up and dressed himself.  Ruth was asleep, so he crept quietly downstairs, lit the fire
and heated the tea.  When it was ready he went softly upstairs again.  Ruth was still sleeping,
so he decided not to disturb her.  Returning to the kitchen, he poured out and drank a cup
of tea, put on his boots, overcoat and hat and taking his basket went out of the house.

The rain was still falling and it was very cold and dark.  There was no one else in the street.
Easton shivered as he walked along wondering what time it could be.  He remembered there was
a clock over the front of a jeweller's shop a little way down the main road.  When he arrived
at this place he found that the clock being so high up he could not see the figures on the
face distinctly, because it was still very dark.  He stood staring for a few minutes vainly
trying to see what time it was when suddenly the light of a bull's-eye lantern was flashed
into his eyes.

'You're about very early,' said a voice, the owner of which Easton could not see.  The light
blinded him.

'What time is it?' said Easton.  'I've got to get to work at seven and our clock stopped during
the night.'

'Where are you working?'

'At "The Cave" in Elmore Road.  You know, near the old toll gate.'

'What are you doing there and who are you working for?' the policeman demanded.

Easton explained.

'Well,' said the constable, 'it's very strange that you should be wandering about at this hour.
It's only about three-quarters of an hour's walk from here to Elmore Road.  You say you've
got to get there at seven, and it's only a quarter to four now.  Where do you live? What's
your name?'  Easton gave his name and address and began repeating the story about the clock
having stopped.

'What you say may be all right or it may not,' interrupted the policeman.  'I'm not sure but
that I ought to take you to the station. All I know about you is that I find you loitering
outside this shop. What have you got in that basket?'

'Only my breakfast,' Easton said, opening the basket and displaying its contents.

'I'm inclined to believe what you say,' said the policeman, after a pause.  'But to make quite
sure I'll go home with you.  It's on my beat, and I don't want to run you in if you're what
you say you are, but I should advise you to buy a decent clock, or you'll be getting yourself
into trouble.'

When they arrived at the house Easton opened the door, and after making some entries in his
note-book the officer went away, much to the relief of Easton, who went upstairs, set the hands
of the clock right and started it going again.  He then removed his overcoat and lay down on
the bed in his clothes, covering himself with the quilt. After a while he fell asleep, and
when he awoke the clock was still ticking.

The time was exactly seven o'clock.

Chapter 4

The Placard

Frank Owen was the son of a journeyman carpenter who had died of consumption when the boy was
only five years old.  After that his mother earned a scanty living as a needle-woman.  When
Frank was thirteen he went to work for a master decorator who was a man of a type that has
now almost disappeared, being not merely an employer but a craftsman of a high order.

He was an old man when Frank Owen went to work for him.  At one time he had had a good business
in the town, and used to boast that he had always done good work, had found pleasure in doing
it and had been well paid for it.  But of late years the number of his customers had dwindled
considerably, for there had arisen a new generation which cared nothing about craftsmanship
or art, and everything for cheapness and profit.  From this man and by laborious study and
practice in his spare time, aided by a certain measure of natural ability, the boy acquired
a knowledge of decorative painting and design, and graining and signwriting.

Frank's mother died when he was twenty-four, and a year afterwards he married the daughter
of a fellow workman.  In those days trade was fairly good and although there was not much demand
for the more artistic kinds of work, still the fact that he was capable of doing them, if required,
made it comparatively easy for him to obtain employment.  Owen and his wife were very happy.
They had one child--a boy--and for some years all went well.  But gradually this state of things
altered: broadly speaking, the change came slowly and imperceptibly, although there were occasional
sudden fluctuations.

Even in summer he could not always find work: and in winter it was almost impossible to get
a job of any sort.  At last, about twelve months before the date that this story opens, he
determined to leave his wife and child at home and go to try his fortune in London.  When he
got employment he would send for them.

It was a vain hope.  He found London, if anything, worse than his native town.  Wherever he
went he was confronted with the legend: 'No hands wanted'.  He walked the streets day after
day; pawned or sold all his clothes save those he stood in, and stayed in London for six months,
sometimes starving and only occasionally obtaining a few days or weeks work.

At the end of that time he was forced to give in.  The privations he had endured, the strain
on his mind and the foul atmosphere of the city combined to defeat him.  Symptoms of the disease
that had killed his father began to manifest themselves, and yielding to the repeated entreaties
of his wife he returned to his native town, the shadow of his former self.

That was six months ago, and since then he had worked for Rushton & Co. Occasionally when they
had no work in hand, he was 'stood off' until something came in.

Ever since his return from London, Owen had been gradually abandoning himself to hopelessness.
Every day he felt that the disease he suffered from was obtaining a stronger grip on him. 
The doctor told him to 'take plenty of nourishing food', and prescribed costly medicines which
Owen had not the money to buy.

Then there was his wife.  Naturally delicate, she needed many things that he was unable to
procure for her.  And the boy--what hope was there for him?  Often as Owen moodily thought
of their circumstances and prospects he told himself that it would be far better if they could
all three die now, together.

He was tired of suffering himself, tired of impotently watching the sufferings of his wife,
and appalled at the thought of what was in store for the child.

Of this nature were his reflections as he walked homewards on the evening of the day when old
Linden was dismissed.  There was no reason to believe or hope that the existing state of things
would be altered for a long time to come.

Thousands of people like himself dragged out a wretched existence on the very verge of starvation,
and for the greater number of people life was one long struggle against poverty.  Yet practically
none of these people knew or even troubled themselves to inquire why they were in that condition;
and for anyone else to try to explain to them was a ridiculous waste of time, for they did
not want to know.

The remedy was so simple, the evil so great and so glaringly evident that the only possible
explanation of its continued existence was that the majority of his fellow workers were devoid
of the power of reasoning.  If these people were not mentally deficient they would of their
own accord have swept this silly system away long ago.  It would not have been necessary for
anyone to teach them that it was wrong.

Why, even those who were successful or wealthy could not be sure that they would not eventually
die of want.  In every workhouse might be found people who had at one time occupied good positions;
and their downfall was not in every case their own fault.

No matter how prosperous a man might be, he could not be certain that his children would never
want for bread.  There were thousands living in misery on starvation wages whose parents had
been wealthy people.

As Owen strode rapidly along, his mind filled with these thoughts, he was almost unconscious
of the fact that he was wet through to the skin. He was without an overcoat, it was pawned
in London, and he had not yet been able to redeem it.  His boots were leaky and sodden with
mud and rain.

He was nearly home now.  At the corner of the street in which he lived there was a newsagent's
shop and on a board outside the door was displayed a placard:

                       TERRIBLE DOMESTIC TRAGEDY
                       DOUBLE MURDER AND SUICIDE

He went in to buy a copy of the paper.  He was a frequent customer here, and as he entered
the shopkeeper greeted him by name.

'Dreadful weather,' he remarked as he handed Owen the paper.  'It makes things pretty bad in
your line, I suppose?'

'Yes,' responded Owen, 'there's a lot of men idle, but fortunately I happen to be working inside.'

'You're one of the lucky ones, then,' said the other.  'You know, there'll be a job here for
some of 'em as soon as the weather gets a little better.  All the outside of this block is
going to be done up. That's a pretty big job, isn't it?'

'Yes,' returned Owen.  'Who's going to do it?'

'Makehaste and Sloggit.  You know, they've got a place over at Windley.'

'Yes, I know the firm,' said Owen, grimly.  He had worked for them once or twice himself.

'The foreman was in here today,' the shopkeeper went on.  'He said they're going to make a
start Monday morning if it's fine.'

'Well, I hope it will be,' said Owen, 'because things are very quiet just now.'

Wishing the other 'Good nigh', Owen again proceeded homewards.

Half-way down the street he paused irresolutely: he was thinking of the news he had just heard
and of Jack Linden.

As soon as it became generally known that this work was about to be started there was sure
to be a rush for it, and it would be a case of first come, first served.  If he saw Jack tonight
the old man might be in time to secure a job.

Owen hesitated: he was wet through: it was a long way to Linden's place, nearly twenty minutes'
walk.  Still, he would like to let him know, because unless he was one of the first to apply,
Linden would not stand such a good chance as a younger man.  Owen said to himself that if he
walked very fast there was not much risk of catching cold. Standing about in wet clothes might
be dangerous, but so long as one kept moving it was all right.

He turned back and set off in the direction of Linden's house: although he was but a few yards
from his own home, he decided not to go in because his wife would be sure to try to persuade
him not to go out again.

As he hurried along he presently noticed a small dark object on the doorstep of an untenanted
house.  He stopped to examine it more closely and perceived that it was a small black kitten.
The tiny creature came towards him and began walking about his feet, looking into his face
and crying piteously.  He stooped down and stroked it, shuddering as his hands came in contact
with its emaciated body.  Its fur was saturated with rain and every joint of its backbone was
distinctly perceptible to the touch.  As he caressed it, the starving creature mewed pathetically.

Owen decided to take it home to the boy, and as he picked it up and put it inside his coat
the little outcast began to purr.

This incident served to turn his thoughts into another channel.   If, as so many people pretended
to believe, there was an infinitely loving God, how was it that this helpless creature that
He had made was condemned to suffer?  It had never done any harm, and was in no sense responsible
for the fact that it existed.  Was God unaware of the miseries of His creatures?  If so, then
He was not all-knowing.  Was God aware of their sufferings, but unable to help them?  Then
He was not all-powerful.  Had He the power but not the will to make His creatures happy?  Then
He was not good.  No; it was impossible to believe in the existence of an individual, infinite
God..  In fact, no one did so believe; and least of all those who pretended for various reasons
to be the disciples and followers of Christ.  The anti-Christs who went about singing hymns,
making long prayers and crying Lord, Lord, but never doing the things which He said, who were
known by their words to be unbelievers and infidels, unfaithful to the Master they pretended
to serve, their lives being passed in deliberate and systematic disregard of His teachings
and Commandments.  It was not necessary to call in the evidence of science, or to refer to
the supposed inconsistencies, impossibilities, contradictions and absurdities contained in
the Bible, in order to prove there was no truth in the Christian religion.  All that was necessary
was to look at the conduct of the individuals who were its votaries.

Chapter 5

The Clock-case

Jack Linden lived in a small cottage in Windley.  He had occupied this house ever since his
marriage, over thirty years ago.

His home and garden were his hobby: he was always doing something; painting, whitewashing,
papering and so forth.  The result was that although the house itself was not of much account
he had managed to get it into very good order, and as a result it was very clean and comfortable.

Another result of his industry was that--seeing the improved appearance of the place--the landlord
had on two occasions raised the rent.  When Linden first took the house the rent was six shillings
a week.  Five years after, it was raised to seven shillings, and after the lapse of another
five years it had been increased to eight shillings.

During the thirty years of his tenancy he had paid altogether nearly six hundred pounds in
rent, more than double the amount of the present value of the house.  Jack did not complain
of this--in fact he was very well satisfied.  He often said that Mr Sweater was a very good
landlord, because on several occasions when, being out of work, he had been a few weeks behind
with his rent the agent acting for the benevolent Mr Sweater had allowed Linden to pay off
the arrears by instalments.  As old Jack was in the habit of remarking, many a landlord would
have sold up their furniture and turned them into the street.

As the reader is already aware, Linden's household consisted of his wife, his two grandchildren
and his daughter-in-law, the window and children of his youngest son, a reservist, who died
while serving in the South African War.  This man had been a plasterer, and just before the
war he was working for Rushton & Co.

They had just finished their tea when Owen knocked at their front door. The young woman went
to see who was there.

'Is Mr Linden in?'

'Yes.  Who is it?'

'My name's Owen.'

Old Jack, however, had already recognized Owen's voice, and came to the door, wondering what
he wanted.

'As I was going home I heard that Makehaste and Sloggit are going to start a large job on Monday,
so I thought I'd run over and let you know.'

'Are they?' said Linden.  'I'll go and see them in the morning.  But I'm afraid I won't stand
much chance, because a lot of their regular hands are waiting for a job; but I'll go and see
'em all the same.'

'Well, you know, it's a big job.  All the outside of that block at the corner of Kerk Street
and Lord Street.  They're almost sure to want a few extra hands.'

'Yes, there's something in that,' said Linden.  'Anyhow, I'm much obliged to you for letting
me know; but come in out of the rain.  You must be wet through.'

'No; I won't stay,' responded Owen.  'I don't want to stand about any longer than I can help
in these wet clothes.'

'But it won't take you a minit to drink a cup of tea,' Linden insisted. 'I won't ask you to
stop longer than that.'

Owen entered; the old man closed the door and led the way into the kitchen.  At one side of
the fire, Linden's wife, a frail-looking old lady with white hair, was seated in a large armchair,
knitting. Linden sat down in a similar chair on the other side.  The two grandchildren, a boy
and girl about seven and eight years, respectively, were still seated at the table.

