The arrival of these visitors displeased Maulear. The beauty of Gaetano struck him unpleasantly.
The intimacy between Aminta and the young man, though thus explained, wounded him. During the
whole day he fancied that he discovered a thousand of those little trifles which a lover treasures
up so carefully, and also that Aminta seemed happy in his presence. His anxiety had begun to
pass away, when a new circumstance revived it. Aminta, who was a perfect musician, went to
the piano, and sang some of those charming canzonets which are so sweet and touching, like
the flowers of this country of melody. The voice of Aminta found an echo in the heart of Maulear,
and his ecstasy was at its height, when Gaetano joined her and sang the charming duo from Romeo
é Julietta, the chef-d'oeuvre of Zingarelli. The jealous Maulear, as he heard this passionate
music, could not believe that art alone inspired the singer. He trembled when he thought, that
as Julietta loved Romeo, Aminta might adore Gaetano.

Unable to repress the agitation which took possession of him, Maulear left the saloon at the
end of the duo, to superintend the preparations for his departure. The night was dark, and
pale lightning shot through the sky, foreboding a storm. The Marquis could not repress his
mortification. The voices of Aminta and the young Italian, blended together, followed him wherever
he went "People," thought he, "only sing thus when they are linked together by love. Art alone
cannot give so passionate an expression to their tones. Indeed, what sentiment can be more
natural? Educated together, always near each other, their affection cannot but have grown up
with them, so that now they perceive the effect without being aware of the cause. They love
each other because they were born to do so, as birds mate in the spring because it is the season
of love. The spring of Gaetano and Aminta is come. How can I, a stranger to this young girl,
hope to please her? Her real preserver was not I, but the unfortunate Tonio. Her gratitude
to me then must be very feeble. Besides, does gratitude lead to love?"

As he indulged in these painful reflections, his eyes became fixed on the skies, already damascened
with black clouds. He strode rapidly across the court of the villa until he saw in front of
him Gaetano Brignoli. Maulear could not repress a sentiment of anger at seeing him, and one
of those emotions inconsiderately indulged in, and which reflection often punishes, though
too late, took possession of him.

"Signor," said he to the young man, "you love the Signorina Aminta Rovero." Gaetano, surprised
at the sudden rencontre in the dark, and yet more amazed at the excited tone of the Marquis,
looked at him, and in his dark black eyes shone neither anger nor indignation, but only astonishment
at the question.

"I have the honor to ask you," said Maulear, now become more calm, having more command of himself,
and blushing at his first uncivil question, "if you do not (and it is very natural) feel a
deep and tender affection for your childhood's friend, the Signorina Aminta Rovero?"

"If I love Aminta?" replied Gaetano. "Ah! Monsieur, who would not love her! Do you know a more
beautiful girl in Naples? Do you know any one more cultivated and refined than she?"

"Certainly not," said the Marquis, with a voice of half-stifled emotion.

"She is my childhood's friend, the companion of my sports. With her I received my first lessons
in music. The divine art I adore. You all know we accord, exactly. I often sing false, my teacher
tells me, but she never does."

To hear one the heart loves and adores, spoken of with qualification and familiarity by a stranger,
is often an acute pain to a lover, so acute, that even the familiarity of a brother with a
sister often causes distress to certain minds. Some jealous souls think this a robbery of friendship,
and a profanation of their idol.

Maulear, wounded that the cherished name of Aminta should be so cavalierly treated by Gaetano,
replied with ill-disguised temper,

"I understand, Signor, that there is nothing false, even musically speaking, in the sentiments
expressed by you to Signora Rovero. Perhaps this is an exception to your usual habits, as your
professor says. But were he to find fault with the correctness of your tones, he could not
censure the sincerity of the passion breathed through them."

"Is not that true?" said Gaetano, really flattered at Maulear's compliment. "It is exalted,
distinct, and intense. It is of a good school, and of the lofty style of Tacchinardi."

"Ah! Signor," replied Maulear impatiently, "you know as well as I do, that no artist, however
skilful and great, can express love as lovers do."

"The fact is," continued Gaetano, "that Zingarelli must have loved some Julietta, when he wrote
his Romeo."

"And you," answered Maulear, "must adore Signorina Aminta, to play so well the part of Romeo!"

"Certainly," said Gaetano, smiling; "and I know very few tenors in San Carlo who sing that
duo as I do. All must confess that there is no Julietta like her."

Maulear was amazed, and could make no reply. The young man either was sincere, and had not
understood him, or he had affected not to do so, assuming the remarks of his companion to refer
to the singer, and not to the lover. He positively refused to become Maulear's confidant, and
by his adroitness and tact made himself understood. The result of all this was, that Maulear
remained in a cruel state of doubt in relation to the sentiments Gaetano entertained for Aminta,
and, what was yet more painful, in relation to those of Aminta for Gaetano.

"Excuse me, Marquis," said the young man to Maulear, "our conversation is so unexpected, that
I, in my surprise, forgot a commission with which I was charged by Signora Rovero. I sought
you to inform you of it, when our conversation was diverted to something else. Signora Rovero,
fancying that you were superintending the preparations for your departure, wishes you to postpone
them until to-morrow, as the night is dark and the road difficult and dangerous. Look," said
he, "at these large drops of rain, which are the avant-couriers of a violent storm."

"Indeed," said Maulear, "I will then accompany you to the ladies."

When they returned to the room, they found Signora Rovero talking with the Count Brignoli,
and Taddeo, with his head on his hand, lost in sad meditation. Leaning on the back of his chair,
was the poetic figure of Aminta. Her long black curls fell over her brother's brow, and when
he looked up to see what it was that hung over him, she leaned her face towards his until their
lips met.

"Brother," said she, "I closed your eyes on purpose that I might hide what I see in them."

"What do you see there, my dear sister?"

"I see," said she, "by their sadness and languor, that my brother has three pieces of a heart.
Two he keeps for my mother and myself, but the third--"

"Is for none," said Taddeo, rising.

"Very well, very well, Monsieur," said Aminta, piqued. "No one asks you for your secret. We
take an interest only in those we love--and I love you no more."

"My good sister," said Taddeo, clasping her hands with emotion, "love me, love me better than
ever, for I have more need of your affection." Aminta threw herself in his arms.

"What is all that?" said their mother, looking around.

"A family drama," said Gaetano, who had just come in with Maulear.

"Yes, Gaetano," said Signora Rovero, "and a happy scene of that drama; for I know of no family
more fortunate than mine."

Aminta drew near to Maulear, and her manner was so kind, and she paid such attention to her
guest, that Maulear felt his uneasiness pass away and his confidence return. Just then the
storm burst in all its fury. The wind whistled violently among the tall trees of the park.
Signora Rovero kept her three guests. A night passed beneath the same roof with Aminta, gratified
every wish of the Marquis, and promised him an opportunity on the next day to declare himself
to the Rose of Sorrento, and confirm or dissipate his jealous doubts.

Signora Rovero wished to discharge every duty of hospitality to her guest, and escorted him
herself to the room he was to occupy. "This room," said she to Maulear, "was long occupied
by my dear daughter; but after the death of her father we altered our arrangements, and Aminta
is now in my own room. Since that time it has been occupied by our young friend Gaetano Brignoli.
I have to-night placed him elsewhere, to be able to give you the best room."

Maulear quivered with joy at the idea of occupying the room in which she he adored had slept,
and it was with a kind of veneration that he took possession of it. The room was on the first
story, in the right wing of the villa, and looked on a terrace covered with flowers, and communicating
with all the rooms of the first floor. It was possible to reach, in two ways, the rooms of
the first story--from the interior of the building, and from the exterior by this elegant terrace.
But Maulear did not observe that night the situation of his room.

The early days of March having been colder than those of February, after a strange season,
which well-nigh had deposed winter from its throne, and the injury Aminta had received not
having permitted her to leave her room, during his previous visits the Marquis had not examined
the residence of Signora Rovero. The terrace on which his window opened was therefore completely
unknown to him.

For about two hours after Maulear had been conducted to the old room of Aminta by Signora Rovero,
he was so agitated by the events of the evening that he could not consent to seek repose. Love,
hope, and jealousy, disputed for the possession of his heart. Seated in a vast arm-chair, near
the hearth, the fire on which flickered faintly, the eyes of Maulear were mechanically directed
to one of the windows of his room, by the beating of the rain against it. All at once he saw,
or thought he saw, a white figure on the other side of the window pause for a few instants,
as if it sought to enter his room. Maulear fancied himself under the influence of a dream.
He rubbed his eyes, to be sure that he was awake, and that his sight did not deceive him. He
hurried towards the window and opened it hastily. But as he moved, and his steps were heard,
the nocturnal visitor disappeared, and Maulear lost sight of it amid the shadows of night.
For a moment he thought it some aerial being, flitting through space, and coming, like the
djinns of the East, to watch by night over the faithful believer. But his poetry gave way to
material evidence, and the sight of the terrace, of whose existence he had had no suspicion,
proved that the djinn was really a human being, who for some unknown motive had wandered across
it, and was by no means so unreal as he had supposed. The idea of crime and theft occurred
to him. He was about to follow the person who fled, when he saw on the terrace, before his
window, an object which he immediately picked up, and examined by the light of his lamp. It
was a veil of white lace, at that time the ordinary dress of Neapolitan women, a vaporous cloud
in which they framed their features, the relic of a fashion imported from France, and made
illustrious by the pencil of our Irabey, the great portrayer of the grace and beauty of the empire.

"It is beyond doubt some love-scrape," thought Maulear, "interrupted by my occupying this bedroom;
and the heroine of the adventure, having come to the window to ascertain whether or not I slept,
has fled, losing a portion of her drapery, like a frightened sheep running through thorns."
When, however, he had examined the veil more closely, Maulear observed its elegance and richness,
and began to think which of the inmates of the villa was likely to wear such a one. Was this
the headdress of a chambermaid? If not, who else but Aminta could wear it, unless indeed her
mother did? Lost in conjectures, the Marquis was roused by hearing a door in the same corridor
on which his room was, open. He listened. Two persons spoke in a low tone; and walking with
such precaution that it was evident they had no disposition to be overheard. Such an occurrence,
in a house usually so silent and calm, excited Maulear's curiosity so much, that he resolved
to know who the mysterious personages were.

Silently leaving his room, he went down the long corridor through which those he wished to
follow had preceded him. A faint light from a dark lantern, borne by one of the strangers,
fell on the path in front of them, and was a guide to Maulear. Thus they descended the principal
staircase of the villa, crossed the ground floor, and entered the front court. A puff of wind
just then put out the lantern, as the person who bore it was attempting to brighten its flame.

"Fool!" said one of the two men to his companion. "How can I saddle my horse now?"

"It is already saddled," said the other.

"Then I have nothing to do but mount!"

"And you will not have occasion to use the spur," said the man with the lantern, "for he is
wild, from having been three weeks in his stable." As the two speakers thus communed, they
entered the second courtyard of the villa. Maulear had followed them thither, hidden in the
deep shadow. A horse, ready saddled, was waiting there. One of the two men sprang lightly into
the saddle, and the other, as he opened a gate into the fields, through which the horseman
rode, said, in a voice full of fear, "May God protect you in this terrible midnight storm,
Signor Taddeo. Beware of the road down the ravine, and be careful whom you meet."

III.--THE AVOWAL.

Maulear, uneasy and disturbed by what he had seen, returned to his room. What could induce
Taddeo thus to leave his mother's house, alone, at midnight, and in a storm? Could it be that,
so recently liberated, he was about to begin again that life of plot and sedition which already
had cost him his liberty? A deep interest united Maulear to Taddeo. The love he felt toward
the sister, made him devoted to the brother, and the new dangers which might befall the young
man seriously affected Maulear. The night passed away without his being able to sleep. In addition
to fear on account of Taddeo, his heart was yet agitated by the emotions of the previous day;
but above all, he thought of the woman who had stood at his window, and whose appearance he
could not forget. A terrible idea then occurred to him. The room he occupied had been that
of Gaetano Brignoli. Had this young girl, apparently so pure and modest, had the White Rose
of Sorrento, any secret amour or intrigue? The young man who had seen the companion of her
infancy might know of it. Could this charming flower be already scorched by the hot breath
of passion? Maulear reproached himself as with a crime, for the mental profanation of his divinity.

The morning meal assembled together all the family and guests. Taddeo participated in it as
naturally as if he had passed the whole night in the villa, and not a word was said of his
nocturnal expedition. He was not so melancholy and moody as he had been on the previous night,
and a careful observer might have marked on his features the satisfaction following the performance
of a painful duty. The Brignoli bade adieu to Signora Rovero immediately after breakfast, and
returned to their villa. Maulear was delighted at their departure.

"Marquis," said Taddeo, "permit me to treat you as a friend, and ask a favor of you--a favor
that will require you to renounce the brilliant saloons of Naples, whose chief ornaments are
the attachés of the French embassy, to lead for a time a retired country-life with my mother
and sister?"

"If that be the favor you ask of me," said Maulear with joy, "you confer one on me. I accept
your proposition with gratitude."

"What are you thinking of, brother? How can you propose such an exile to the Marquis? Our life
in the country is so sad and melancholy; what can we offer him as a compensation for the amusements
he would sacrifice?"

"Where would be the merit of the service, unless its performance cost some sacrifice?" said
Taddeo. "In one word, this is the state of affairs. An obligation, my honor imposes on me,
requires me for at least a week to be absent from Sorrento. The trial of Count Monte-Leone
will begin in a few days, and I must be present at it. It is said," added he, with hesitation
and a significant glance at the Marquis, "that the Count's partisans will on that occasion
be active. His enemies too are numerous, and as he is known to have come to this house, I cannot
feel satisfied unless some courageous and energetic man replaces me, and deigns to watch over
the two dear beings I am forced to leave. This, Marquis, is what I expect from you."

"My heart, my arm, my life, are all at the ladies' disposal. You may rely on me."

Aminta looked down, for the first consecration made by Maulear was evidently intended for her.
Taddeo did not remark it, and clasped with gratitude the hand of his new friend. Signora Rovero,
terrified at the idea of losing her son again, looked sadly at him.

"I do not know what is going on," said she with emotion, and with that instinct which reveals
to a mother the danger of a beloved son. "I shudder, however, Taddeo, when I see you surrounded
by danger. You do not like the government, I know, for by the fall of Murat a brilliant career
was closed before you, for your father was one of his greatest favorites. But in your father's
name I, your mother, his widow, whose hope and support you are, beseech you not to expose the
life which does not belong to you alone. Remember, my child, your sister and myself have no
other support in life than yourself, and that my weak and failing existence could not withstand
your loss."

Taddeo grew pale, for the association with which he was affiliated might expose him to all
the dangers of which his mother was apprehensive. He concealed his agitation by caresses and
iterations of love, mentally resolving to turn aside in time from his sad career, as if those
who involve themselves in perdition can pause in the rapid descent down the declivity to sorrow
and death, whither the sturdiest champions are hurried to be entombed in the grave they have
dug for themselves.

"You will go then to Naples?" said Signora Rovero to her son. "God grant that Monte-Leone recover
his liberty, since he is your friend! But, Taddeo, do not trust to his adventurous mind; he
is a hurricane, enveloping all in his path. Heaven grant he may not bear you away with him."

This conversation on this subject, so painful to the mother and annoying to the son, ended here.

"Will you deign, Signorina," said the Marquis to Aminta, "to accept me as a guest for a few days?"

"Certainly, if you are not afraid of our retreat. Besides," added she, with a smile, "one must
have suffered as much as Leonora's lover, not to be happy in the paradise of Sorrento."

Maulear remembered the words he had written on the wall of Tasso's house. But before he could
express his astonishment and joy, Aminta was gone. Just then it was announced to Maulear, that
his horse waited him at the gate of the park.

"We will accompany you thither (my sister and I)," said Taddeo.

Signora Rovero called Aminta to her, and added: "The air is keen, my child: cover your head
with your lace veil. It becomes you."

Maulear turned quickly toward Aminta with his mind full of fear and surprise--

"I am afraid I have lost my veil. I looked for it this morning, but could not find it." Aminta
seemed annoyed. Her emotion was perceived at once by Maulear, who said to himself: "What mystery
is this? why conceal it from me?" The coincidence of a veil being found by him, and of Aminta
having lost one, made him keenly anxious: he was terrified, confounded, and so excited, that
he could scarcely speak to Taddeo and Aminta as he crossed the park with them.

"Remember," said Rovero to him, "that my mother and sister will expect you here in a few days."

"In a few days," said Aminta, giving the Marquis her sweetest smile.

"In a few days," replied Maulear, as he mounted his horse, and cast on the young girl a look
of doubting love. He then galloped off, and soon disappeared in the long road to Sorrento.

When he returned to Naples, the whole city was busy with the approaching trial of Monte-Leone,
who was so beloved by one portion of the community and so unpopular with the other. The nobility
of the two Sicilies deplored the errors of the Count, and regretted that one of the most illustrious
of the great names of Naples should embrace and defend so plebeian a cause; one in their eyes
so utterly without interest as that of popular rights. But it was wounded at the idea that
a peer should die by the hand of the executioner. The old leaven of independence, innate in
all the aristocracies of Europe; the feudal aspirations which Louis XI. and Richelieu had so
completely annihilated and subdued in France, yet germinated in the minds of the nobles of
Naples. They loved the king because he maintained their privileges, and had re-established
the rights of their birth. They would have revolted had he touched them. From pride of birth
they would have applauded the execution of a plebeian conspirator, but were prepared to cry
out en masse against that of Monte-Leone, because he was one of themselves.

The people looked on the illustrious prisoner as a defender of their rights, and sympathized
with him. To sharpen this sympathy, the adepts of the Italian vente everywhere represented
their chief as a martyr to his love of the people, and a victim of monarchy. Most injurious
charges were everywhere circulated against Fernando IV. It was said that he had inherited the
hatred of Carlos III. to the Monte-Leoni, and sought to follow out on the son the vengeance
to which the father had fallen a victim. Nothing was omitted that could stimulate the favor
of the superstitious and impressionable people of Naples. The same executioner, block and axe,
which had been used at the father's death, by a strange fatality, would come in play again
at the murder of the son. The imprisonment of the son at the Castle Del Uovo, where the father
had died, gave something of plausibility to this story. But what most excited public curiosity
was the strange incident which had taken place at Torre-del-Greco. All were impatient for its
explanation. The double and impossible presence of the Count at the house of Stenio Salvatori,
and within the fifty locks of the Castle Del Uovo, his contest with his enemy, the wound he
was accused of having given him, his ubiquity at the same hour in different places, produced
a thousand incredible versions, a thousand bets on this wonderful fact, unrivalled in the judicial
annals of Naples.

The name of Monte-Leone was so closely and intimately linked with the destiny of the Marquis
de Maulear, with his friendship to Taddeo, and his love of Aminta, that he partook of the general
interest inspired by the Count, and as a man of honor hoped for acquittal, notwithstanding
the influence it might exert on his happiness.

To lose confidence in one we love, is the greatest agony possible. The four days, therefore,
which separated him from Aminta, were four centuries to Maulear. Like the majority of rich
young men of our times, yielding at an early age to liaisons, he had formed an erroneous and
unjust opinion of women in general. The withered myrtles he had often gathered, the passing
amours in which almost all the men of his rank, fortune and appearance indulge, had distorted
his mind in relation to a sex, the least respectable portion of which alone he was acquainted
with. But the young Marquis had exalted sentiments, and his high spirit turned aside from vulgar,
common pleasures. His first loves, or not to profane that word, his first indulgences, had
for their object those women who lead astray an ardent mind or passionate natures; those women
who, betrayed into marriage, seek elsewhere a recompense for their misfortunes or the deceptions
practised upon them, and fancy they can find it in the inexperience and youth of young men,
whom chance throws in their way. The latter proudly, and at first eagerly, accepting their
conquests, soon discover, that often they are not heroes. They become themselves the accomplices
of the criminal devices, the studied falsehoods, employed by married women to abuse those on
whom they depend. In either case they see each other insensibly change, and in spite of themselves
conceive an aversion to those pleasures, even in sharing which they blush. The idol becomes
a mere woman, and the hero of these adventures fancies himself right in estimating all women
by a few exceptions, and becomes an atheist in love because he has sacrificed to false gods.

This deplorable theory had taken possession of Maulear. His naturally pure sentiments, the
poetry of his heart, had been dissipated in ephemeral indulgences. The Countess of Grandmesnil,
the guardian of the young man, fearing lest a serious passion should contravene his father's
views,--encouraged him in his liaisons, or at least she did nothing to induce him to abandon
them. Under this sad opinion, which is unfortunately too common in our days, that female virtue
is but a name, and that the most prudent only need opportunity to go astray, Maulear came to
Naples, where we must say much success in gallantry fortified his faith in these detestable
principles.

His meeting with one so pure as Aminta had wrought a complete change in his ideas. He saw woman
under a new aspect, as we dream of her at twenty, when the young soul first awakes. He suffered
intensely when suspicion gnawed at his heart. "What," said he, yet under the influence of the
pernicious theories of his youth, "not one woman worthy of respect! Even this young girl, apparently
so modest and pure, unworthy the confidence I reposed in her." The recollection of the chaste
and maidenly appearance of Aminta soon put such ideas to flight, and Maulear thenceforth had
but one idea, but one desire. He sought to clear up the strange mystery of his nocturnal vision,
and extricate himself from his cruel perplexity.

On the day appointed for his return to Sorrento, as the clock struck ten, he stopped his horse
at the garden gate where four days before he had left Aminta. The gate was open. He entered
the orange grove which lay between it and the house. A secret hope told him he would find Aminta
there. He was not mistaken. She sat beneath a rustic porch, which served as a portal to the
prettiest cottage imaginable. This building, constructed of the slightest material, had windows
closed with gayly-covered verandahs, and served to shelter walkers from the heat of the summer's
sun. It was Aminta's favorite retreat, and thither she came in the morning to paint her sisters,
the white Bengal roses, the red cactus and the graceful clematides, which surrounded her charming
retreat. There in the evening, pensive and reflective, the young girl suffered her glance to
stray over the vast horizon of the sea gilded by the sun's expiring rays. On the day we speak
of, Maulear found her reading, or rather seeming to read, for her book rested on her knee,
her ivory brow supported by her hand. Her eyes, lifted up to heaven, seemed to ask the realization
of some gentle dream inspired doubtless by the author. Perhaps the nature of the dream might
have been devised by the book--Tasso's Divine Poem! Maulear glided rather than walked to her,
so fearful was he of destroying the beautiful tableau presented to him by chance. Then he paused
some moments behind a screen of leaves, and looked at the beautiful dreamer, in mute but passionate
adoration. As he scanned her girlish form, becoming intoxicated with her modest charms, Maulear
blushed at his suspicions, and resolved to abandon them. God did not make such angels for men
to distrust, and Aminta, beautiful as the heavenly beings, must be pure and spiritual as they.

He left his concealment, and approached Aminta. She moved when she saw him, for he had surprised
her in a dream. The dreams of young girls are treasures to be concealed from the profane in
the most profound sanctuary of the heart. Aminta advanced a step or two towards Maulear, thus
testifying her wish to return to the villa. But the Marquis, afraid of losing this favorable
opportunity to see her for a short time alone, begged her to be seated, and took his place
beside her, making, as an excuse, an allusion to the fatigue of riding rapidly from Naples
to Sorrento.

Aminta sat down, but with an embarrassment which Maulear could not but see. "You have kept
your promise, Signor," said she, seeking to disguise her trouble by speaking first.

"How could I not keep my promise?" said Maulear. "It was to see you again."

"We know what such devotion must cost you," Aminta replied, speaking aloud, as if her words
were not intended only for Maulear. "Both my mother and myself are very grateful to you."

"Signorina," said Maulear, with an effort, for he was afraid of wasting in commonplaces moments
in which every word he uttered had a priceless value, "I did not think, as I wrote on the wall
of Tasso's house the simple lines you deigned to read and remember, that I thus wrote out my
horoscope, and divined the happiness fate marked out for me at Sorrento."

"Happiness?" said Aminta, and she trembled as she spoke. "You must refer to the service you
have rendered me."

"I speak," said Maulear, unable to restrain himself, "of a new and strange feeling to me, full
of pleasure and pain, of hope and fear. I speak of a love, which will be the pride and joy
of my existence, if it be shared; which will bring despair and torment, if she who inspires
it rejects it."

"Pray be silent," said Aminta, rising and looking with fear around her.

"Ah, you have understood me," said Maulear, attributing to his confession Aminta'a emotion.

The young girl was silent. Her eyes turned towards the door of the hut, as if she feared some
one would open it.

"What I say here, Signorina, with nought near me but the passing cloud and flying bird, I wish
to repeat to those who love you--before your mother and brother, whom I would look on as my
own. It is for you to tell me whether I shall speak to them or be silent."

Just then a faint noise was heard in the summer-house.

Maulear did not perceive it, for Aminta, more and more disturbed by the mysterious noise, had
suffered the Marquis to take her hand, and the latter, interpreting this favor as his heart
wished, fell on his knees before the young girl, who, overcome with emotion, sat down.

"Aminta," said he, passionately, "since the first day I saw you, my soul, my life, have been
your own. If you but will it, your life shall be my own--my own, to make every hour of your
life one of joy and pleasure--mine, in adoring you as we do the saints in heaven."

Maulear, with his eyes fixed on Aminta's, sought an echo to the outpourings of his soul. His
lips were on Aminta's hand, when, between the young girl and himself, he saw a hideous head,
made yet more horrid by the agony it expressed. Aminta suddenly withdrew, and Maulear experienced
that terror of which the bravest are sensible when they tread on a reptile.

"Scorpione!" said the Marquis.

This name, on the lips of the Marquis at such a time, made such an impression, that a stream
of blood, mingled with white froth, burst from his lips, and fell at Aminta's feet.

"Help, Signor!" said she to Maulear, "help, I pray you, for this unfortunate man! This is the
first time he has gone out since that cruel day. See, he dies!"

"What is the meaning of all this?" said Maulear to himself, as he hurried towards the villa.
"Twice my being with Aminta has exercised the same effect on this unfortunate being. Can she
love him? Can he be jealous?"

IV. THE GRAND JUDGE.

The trial of Count Monte-Leone, which had been so anxiously looked for, and had given rise
to so many disputes about the curious story which occupied both the high and low of Naples,
was about to begin.

The Duke of Palma had not been able to make good his promise to the prisoner, and bring him
promptly before his judges. The incident at Torre-del-Greco made a new inquiry necessary, and
the examinations, researches, and inquiries of every kind it led to daily, retarded the trial,
much to the regret of the king and his minister of police, who were aware of the extent to
which the public imagination was excited, and feared its consequences. Monte-Leone began to
feel grave apprehensions in relation to the dangerous game he had played. On the evening of
his excursion, faithful to his word, the Count had presented himself again to the keeper of
the Castle del Uovo in the costume in which he had left it, and the pious wicket-keeper, when
he saw the false assistant jailer, who had gone out on the previous evening, return with a
trembling and uncertain step, read a long lecture on intemperance and the results of drunkenness,
deplorable faults, especially to be regretted in one of his profession, where, added the turnkey
proudly, one needs morality, reason, and vigilance especially, to unravel the plots of the
prisoners confided to him, and to triumph over their detestable mania for liberty.

When Pietro on that evening, palpitating as he was with fear, saw Monte-Leone, whom he waited
for at the postern of the castle, return, his joy was so great that he was ready to clasp the
Count's neck. The latter was not much flattered by his transports.

"Well," said the head-jailer, "you are a noble and true gentleman. A scoundrel in your place
would have escaped, and put his keeper in trouble. You are of a good race, of a noble and generous
blood, you have paid me well, and have been unwilling to hang the father of a family. Now,"
added he, "do not let us talk together, or even look at each other. Our looks may be watched
and interpreted."

From that time Pietro became more brutal, more savage and stern than ever. The visit of the
minister of police justly enough increased the terror of the jailer. He had from public rumor
heard of the terrible episode at Torre-del-Greco, though he did not precisely understand the
motives of the prisoner. He was aware that he had become an accomplice of his crime, and shuddered
more and more at its probable results. Whenever, therefore, the Count sought to ask him any
question, Pietro exhibited such terror, and his countenance was so complete a picture of fright,
that Monte-Leone at last ceased to speak to him. No news from without, nothing enlightened
the Count in relation to the consequences of his daring conduct, and for the first time he
despaired of the result. One morning his door opened as usual at meal time; but instead of
withdrawing, the keeper approached Monte-Leone kindly, his ugly face, on account of the complaisance
which lit it up, seeming yet more horrid. He said:

"Excellence, the great day approaches, and we must arrange some little details about which
the High Court will no doubt be ill-mannerly enough to question us!"

"You can speak then," replied Monte-Leone, with surprise.

"To-day is not yesterday. Then and ever since your escape, my gossip, the Headsman, who lives
up there as you know, distrusts me. I learn from his assistant, who is a friend of mine, that
the story of the cell undermined by the sea has made him fancy I wish to deprive him of his
perquisites. I know that while he waters his flowers on the platform he keeps an eye and ear
open for all that passes here. Besides, he would not be at all sorry to obtain my place for
his first assistant--a promising lad who becomes his son-in-law to-day."

"Ah!" said Monte-Leone, "the executioner's daughter is to be married."

"A love match. He wished to postpone the wedding until after your affaire, as he calls it,
for on such cases he always has large perquisites, and would be able largely to increase the
bride's portion. The young girl, however, was in love, and was unwilling to wait for you. The
worthy father then determined to make her happy, and I have just seen all the party set out
for the church of Santa-Lucia. The executioner, his wife, the bride, and the little executioners,
all in their best garb. The procession was so imposing, they might have been taken for a family
of turnkeys. Lest, however, the people should disturb the ceremony by a volley of stones, they
set out early, at five o'clock. As, therefore, we have no inquisitive neighbors, I am come
to have an understanding with your excellency, in order that I may not be compromised in the
trial."

"So be it!" said the Count, "let us have an understanding. In the first place, have they any
suspicions?"

"Of whom?"

"Of you to be sure, for unless I have wings and flew out of the window to Torre-del-Greco,
no one but you can have opened the prison gate to me."

"That is true, then," said Pietro, "you went to Torre-del-Greco to stab Stenio Salvatori. I
really would not have believed it, for it seems that twenty thousand piasters is too large
a sum for the pleasure of a poniard thrust--in the arm too! After all, though, we Neapolitans
regard nothing valuable compared with revenge!"

"It matters little to you whether it was for revenge or another purpose. All I wish is, for
you alone to know that I was away for twelve hours. As neither you or I will mention it, I
am at ease."

"You are right in the main, your Excellency. But we have placed our heads in the balance, and
I am determined yours shall not outweigh mine. The hand of justice weighs heavily, especially
on the poor. It would be very bad if now, when I am prepared to live happily and pleasantly
on the proceeds of our little operation, I were called on to dangle at the end of a rope, to
the great delight of the dealers in ice-water and macaroni, whom the people of Naples on that
day would enrich. Few would miss the entertainment which would be given at my expense."

"What makes you fear this?" asked the Count.

"One idea. They might take it into their heads to examine separately all the inhabitants of
the castle. First your Excellency, as its principal guest, then your humble servant, the gate-keeper,
and even my assistant Crespo. If all did not tell the same story the Grand Judge would see
some trick."

"You think so?" said the Count, moodily.

