PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 101.

July 25, 1891.

OPERATIC NOTES.

Tuesday, July 14.--Madame NORDICA is not at her best as Aïda. It lacks colour--that is on the
face and hands, where at least should be shown some more "colourable pretence" for being the
daughter of so blackened a character as is her father Amonasro, played as a villain of the
deepest dye by M. DEVOYOD. When the celebrated march was heard, the players didn't seem particularly
strong in trumps, and the trumpets giving a somewhat "uncertain sound,"--a trifle husky, as
if they'd caught cold,--somewhat marred the usually thrilling effect. Gorgeous scene; and RAVELLI
the Reliable as Radames quite the success of the evening. Mlle. GUERCIA as Amneris seemed to
have made up after an old steel plate in a bygone Book of Beauty. Where are those Books of
Beauty now! And The Keepsake? Where the pseudo-Byronic poetry and the short stories by Mrs.
NAMBY and Mr. PAMBY? But this is only a marginal note, not in the Operatic score. Signor ABRAMOFF
was a powerful Ramphis, his make-up suggesting that his title would be more appropriately Rumfiz,--which
would be an excellent Egyptian name. Very good House, but still suffering from reaction after
Imperial visit, and not to recover itself till to-morrow, Wednesday, when the House is crowded
with a brilliant audience to hear a brilliant performance of Otello. The Grand Otello Co. Covent
Garden, Limited. Thoroughly artistic performance of Iago by M. MAUREL. His wicked "Credo" more
diabolically malicious than ever it was at the Lyceum; an uncanny but distinctly striking effect.
Then DRURIOLANUS ASTRONOMICUS gave us a scenic startler in the way of imitation meteoric effect.
'Twas on this wise: of course, neither DRURIOLANUS nor any other Manager can carry on an operatic
season without stars, and so they are here, a galaxy of 'em, up above, on the "back cloth,"
as it is technically termed, shining brilliantly but spasmodically, strange portents in the
operatic sky. Pity Astronomer Royal not here to see and note the fact. Next time Otello is
given, if this atmospheric effect is to be repeated, the attendants in the lobbies might be
permitted to supply powerful telescopes at a small fixed charge. But the greatest star of all
is Madame ALBANI as Desdemona; a triumph dramatically and operatically. Her song in the last
Act, the celebrated "Willow Song"--which of course no cricketer ought to miss hearing--was
most beautifully and touchingly rendered. Those persons suffering from the heat of a crowded
house, and dreading the difficulty of finding their "keb or kerridge" in good time, and who
therefore quitted their seats before ALBANI sang the "Willow Song," must, perforce, sing the
old refrain, "O Willow, we have missed you!" and go back for it whenever this Opera is played
again. M. JEAN DE RESZKÉ was not, perhaps, quite up to his usual form, or his usual former
self; but, for all that, he justified his responsibility as one of the largest shareholders
in the Grand Otello Company, Limited. All things considered, and the last best thing being
invariably quite the best, Otello, or Symphonies in Black and White, is about the biggest success
of the season.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO AMANDA.

(ACCOMPANYING A SET OF VERSES WHICH SHE BADE ME WRITE.)

  Only a trifle, though, i' faith, 'tis smart,
  A jeu d'esprit, not art concealing art,
    Fruition of a moment's fantasy,
    Mere mental bubbles, verbal filagree.

  But, though thy lightest wish I would not thwart,
  I prithee bid me play some other part
  Another time, and I will give thee carte
    Blanche to dictate; in truth aught else will be
                            Only a trifle,
  Compared with versifying. I will dart,
  At thy behest, e'en to the public mart
   To buy a bonnet, or will gleefully
   Carry a babe through Bond Street. My sole plea
  Is--no more verses. Surely 'tis, sweetheart,
                        Only a trifle.
And space then was limited. But among the "Great Unnamed" should
assuredly have been mentioned W.H. WILLS, one of the originators of
Mr. PUNCH's publication, CLEMENT SCOTT the flowing lyrist, and author
of "The Cry of the Children," &c., ASHBY STERRY of "Lazy Minstrel"
fame, and "ROBERT," the genial garrulous "City Waiter," whilst the
names of J.P. ("Dumb-Crambo") ATKINSON, and E.J. WHEELER, were omitted
by the purest accident. The late H.J. BYRON contributed a series
of papers. Mr. PUNCH hastens to put them--as he would gladly some
others--"on the list," since, of no one of them, could it be truly
said "he never would be missed." "HALBOT" was a misprint for "HABLÔT,"
"MAGUIN HANNAY" should read "MAGINN, HANNAY, &c.," and for "GEORGE
SILVER" read "HENRY."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE METROPOLITAN MINOTAUR;

OR, THE LONDON LABYRINTH AND THE COUNTY COUNCIL THESEUS.

    ["Certainly, if some members of the London County Council have
    their way, it will soon have plenty to occupy it without
    being called upon to form a scheme of water-supply for the
    Metropolis."--The Times.]

L.C.C. loquitur:--

  Bless me! Things combine so a hero to humble!
  I fancied that Bull-headed Minotaur--BUMBLE,
  Would fall to my hand like Pasiphae's monster
  To Theseus. But oh! every step that I on stir
  Bemuddles me more. I did think myself clever,
  But fear from the Centre I'm farther than ever,
  Oh, this is a Labyrinth! Worse than the Cretan!
  Yet shall the new Theseus admit himself beaten?
  Forbid it, great Progress! Your votary I, Ma'am,
  But in this Big Maze it seems small use to try, Ma'am.
  Mere roundaboutation's not Progress. Get forward?
  Why eastward, and westward and southward, and nor'ward,
  Big barriers stop me! Eh? Centralisation?
  Demolish that monster, Maladministration,
  Whose menaces fright the fair tower-crowned Maiden.
  Most willingly, Madam; but look how I'm laden,
  And hampered! Oh! I should be grateful to you, Ma'am,
  If, like Ariadne, you'd give me a clue, Ma'am.
  I'll never--like treacherous Theseus--desert you;
  My constancy's staunch, like my valour and virtue.
  Through Fire, Water, Wilderness trackless I'll follow,
  But astray in a Maze high ambition seems hollow!

       *       *       *       *       *

WATERLOO TO WEYBRIDGE.

BY THE 6.5 P.M.

  A young man--it's no matter who--
  Hailed a cab and remarked "Waterloo!"
    The driver, with bowed
    Head, sobbed out aloud,
  "Which station?" They frequently do.

  A poet once said that to Esher
  The only good rhyme was "magnesher;"
    This was not the fact,
    And he had to retract,
  Which he did--he retracted with plesher.

  A fancier cried: "There's one fault on
  The part of the sparrows at Walton;
    And that's why I fail
    To put salt on their tail--
  The birds have no tails to put salt on."

  The dulness of riding to Weybridge
  Pleasant chat (mind the accent) may abridge,
    But not when it deals
    With detaching of wheels,
  Collisions, explosions, and Tay Bridge.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE STOLEN PICTURES.--The Débats informed us, last week, that the thief who stole TENIERS'
pictures from the Museum at Rennes has been discovered. His punishment should "fit the crime,"
as Mr. GILBERT's Mikado used to say, and therefore he ought to be sentenced to penal servitude
for Ten years.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LEAVES FROM A CANDIDATE'S DIARY.

Wednesday, June 11th.--Left Billsbury last Saturday, having in DICKY DIKES's words "broken
the back of the blooming canvas." During my last night's round we went into a small house in
one of the slums. The husband was out, but the wife and family were all gathered together in
the back room. There were five children, ranging in age from ten down to two, and the mother
looked the very picture of slatternly discomfort. We asked the usual questions, and I was just
turning to go, when I heard a violent fit of convulsive coughing from a dark corner. The mother
got up and went to the corner. I couldn't help following, and saw the most miserable spectacle
I ever set eyes on. In a sort of cradle was lying the smallest, frailest and most absolutely
pinched and colourless baby choking with every cough, and gasping horribly for breath. I don't
know what I said, but the mother turned to DIKES and said, "He haven't much longer to cough.
I shall want the undertakers for him soon." I asked her if nothing could be done, but she merely
replied, "It'll be better so. We've too many mouths to feed without him." I couldn't stay longer
after that, but fairly bolted out of the house.

Our people are jubilant about our prospects. The canvas shows, they say, a steady increase
in our favour, the registrations have been uniformly good, and, best of all, Sir THOMAS CHUBSON
again voted and spoke on the wrong side, when the Billsbury Main Drainage Bill came on for
Second Reading in the House the other day. Our point is of course that, if this scheme were
carried out, there would be a great deal of work for Billsbury labourers, and, somehow or other,
a large amount of money would be spent in the town. We have rubbed this well in at every meeting
we have held lately, and found it a most effective point during the canvas. CHUBSON and the
Radicals talk about a great increase of the rates which would follow on it; but we pooh-pooh
this, and point out that the ultimate saving would be enormous, and that the health of the
town must be benefited. They don't like the business at all, and feel they've made a mistake.

Have been made on successive nights a Druid, a Forester, and a Loyal and Ancient Shepherd.
All these three are Benefit Societies, and the mysteries of initiation into each are very similar.
Colonel CHORKLE (who ought to have gone through the business long ago) was made a Druid with
me. I never saw anybody so nervous. All the courage of all the CHORKLES seemed to have deserted
him, and he trembled like a Volunteer aspen. I told Major WORBOYS on the following day that
his Colonel, who I was sure might be trusted to face a hostile battery without flinching, had
been very nervous when he was made a Druid. WORBOYS sneered, and said that he'd be willing
to take his chance of CHORKLE's facing the battery or not, if CHORKLE would only learn to ride
decently. "Give you my word of honour," said WORBOYS, "when the General inspected us last year,
CHORKLE's horse ran away with him three times, and at last we had to march past without him.
One of the tamest horses in the world, too. My boy JACK rides it constantly." But WORBOYS despises
CHORKLE, and thinks he ought to command the regiment himself. He spread it all over Billsbury
that CHORKLE was found hiding under a table when he was summoned to be initiated, and was dragged
out screaming piteously for mercy.

On my last morning I was interviewed by a deputation from the Billsbury Branch of The Women's
Suffrage League. The deputation consisted of Mrs. BOSER, the President of the Branch, Miss
AMY GINGELL, the Secretary, and two others. It was a trying business. Mrs. BOSER is the most
formidable person I ever met. I felt like a babe in her hands after she had glowered at me
for five minutes. Finally I found myself, rather to my own astonishment, promising to vote
for a Women's Suffrage Bill, and adding that Mrs. BOSER's arguments had convinced me that justice
had in this matter been too long denied to women, and that for my part, if elected, I should
lose no opportunity of recording my vote on the side of women. They seemed pleased, but the
Meteor of the next day had a frightful leader about the "shameful want of moral fibre in a
Conservative Candidate who was thus content to put the whole Constitution into the melting-pot,
if by so doing he could only secure a few stray votes, and get the help of the women in his
coal-and-blanket expeditions."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TRAVELLING COMPANIONS.

NO. I.

    SCENE--An Excursion Agents' Offices. Behind the counters
    polite and patient Clerks are besieged by a crowd of Intending
    Tourists, all asking questions at once.

First Int. T. Here--have you made out that estimate for me yet?

Clerk. In one moment, Sir. (He refers to a list, turns over innumerable books, jots down columns
of francs, marks, and florins; reduces them to English money, and adds them up.) First class
fares on the Rhine, Danube and Black Sea steamers, I think you said, second class rail, and
postwagen?

First Int. T. I did say so, I believe; but it had better be second class all through, and I
can always pay the difference if I want to.

    [The Clerk alters the sums accordingly, and adds up again.

Clerk. Fifty-five pounds fourteen and a penny, Sir. Shall I make you put the tickets now?

First Int. T. Um, no. On second thoughts, I'd like to see one of your short Circular Tours
for the English Lakes, or Wales, before I decide.

    [The Clerk hands him a quantity of leaflets, with which he
    retires.

    Enter Mr. CLARENDON CULCHARD, age about twenty-eight; in
    Somerset House; tall; clean-shaven, wears glasses, stoops
    slightly, dresses carefully, though his tall hat is of the
    last fashion but two. He looks about him expectantly, and then
    sits down to wait.

Culchard (to himself). No sign of him yet! I do like a man to keep an appointment. If this
is the way he begins--I have my doubts whether he is quite the sort of fellow to--but I took
the precaution to ask HUGH ROSE about him, and ROSE said he was the best company in the world,
and I couldn't help getting on with him. I don't think ROSE would deceive me. And from all
I've seen of PODBURY, he seems a pleasant fellow enough. What a Babel! All these people bent
on pleasure, going to seek it in as many directions--with what success no one can predict.
There's an idea for a sonnet there.

    [He brings out a pocket-book, and begins to write--"As when
    a--"

An Amurrcan Citizen (to Clerk). See here, I've been around with your tickets in Yurrup, and
when I was at Vernis, I bought some goods at a store there, and paid cash down for 'em, and
they promised to send 'em on for me right here, and that was last fall, and I've never heard
any more of 'em, and what I want you should do now is to instruct your representative at Vernis
to go round and hev a talk with that man, and ask him what in thunder he means by it, and kinder
hint that he'll hev the Amurrcan Consul in his hair pretty smart, if he don't look slippier!

    [The Clerk mildly suggests that it would be better to
    communicate directly with the American Consulate, or with
    the tradesman himself.

The A.C. But hold on--how'm I goin' to write to that sharp, when I've lost his address, and
disremember his name? Can't you mail a few particulars to your agent, so he'll identify him?
No. (Disappointed.) Well, I thought you'd ha' fixed up a little thing like that, anyhow; in
my country they'd ha' done it right away. Yes, Sir! [He goes away in grieved surprise.

Enter Mr. JAMES PODBURY, age twenty-six; in a City Office; short, fresh-coloured, jaunty; close-cut
fair hair, and small auburn moustache. Not having been to the City to-day, he is wearing light
tweeds, and brown boots.

Podbury (to himself). Just nicked it!--(looks at clock)--more or less. And he doesn't seem
to have turned up yet. Wonder how we shall hit it off together. HUGHIE ROSE said he was a capital
good chap--when you once got over his manner. Anyhow, it's a great tip to go abroad with a
fellow who knows the ropes. (Suddenly sees CULCHARD absorbed in his note-book.) So here you
are, eh?

Culchard (slightly scandalised by the tweeds and the brown boots). Yes, I've been here some
little time. I wish you could have managed to come before, because they close early here to-day,
and I wanted to go thoroughly over the tour I sketched out before getting the tickets. [He
produces an elaborate outline.

Podbury (easily). Oh, that's all right! I don't care where I go! All I want is, to see as much
as we can in the time--leave all the rest to you. I'll sit here while you get the tickets.

An Old Lady (to Clerk, as CULCHARD) is waiting at the counter). Oh, I beg your pardon, but
could you inform me if the 1'55 train from Calais to Basle stops long enough for refreshments
anywhere, and when they examine the luggage, and if I can leave my handbag in the carriage,
and whether there is an English service at Yodeldorf, and is it held in the hotel, and Evangelical,
or High Church, and are the sittings free, and what Hymn-book they use?

    [The Clerk sets her mind free on as many of these points as
    he can, and then attends to CULCHARD.

Culchard (returning to PODBURY with two cases bulging with books of coloured coupons). Here
are yours. I should like you to run your eye over them, and see that they are correct, if you
don't mind.

Podbury (stuffing them in his pocket). Can't be bothered now. Take your word for it.

Culchard. No--but considering that we start the first thing to-morrow morning, wouldn't it
be as well to have some idea of where you're going? And, by the way, excuse me, but is it altogether
prudent to keep your tickets in an outside pocket like that? I always keep mine, with my money,
in a special case in an inner pocket, with a buttoned nap--then I know I can't lose them.

Podbury. Anything for a quiet life! (He examines his coupons.) Dover to Ostend? Never been
there--like to see what Ostend's like. But why didn't you go by Calais?--shorter you know.

Culchard. Because I thought we'd see Bruges and Ghent on our way to Brussels.

Podbury. Bruges, eh? Capital! Anything particular going on there? No? It don't matter. And
Ghent--let's see, wasn't that where they brought the good news to? Yes, we'll stop at Ghent--if
we've time. Then--Brussels? Good deal of work to be done there, I suppose, sightseeing, and
that? I like a place where you can moon about without being bothered myself; now, at Brussels--never
mind, I was only thinking.

Culch. It's the best place to get to Cologne and up the Rhine from. Then, you see, we go rather
out of our way to Nuremberg--

Podbury. Where they make toys? I know--pretty festive there, eh?

Culch. I don't know about festive--but it is--er--a quaint, and highly interesting old place.
Then I thought we'd dip down to Constance, and strike across the Alps to the Italian Lakes.

Podbury. Italian Lakes? First--rate! Yes, they're worth seeing, I suppose. Think they're better
than the Swiss ones, though?

Culch. (tolerantly). I can get the coupons changed for Switzerland, if you prefer it. The Swiss
Lakes may be the more picturesque.

Podbury. Yes, we'll do Switzerland--and run back by Paris, eh? Not much to do in Switzerland,
though, after all!

Culch. (with a faintly superior smile). There are one or two mountains, I believe. But, personally,
I should prefer Italy.

Podbury. So should I. No fun in mountains--unless you go up 'em. What do you think of choosing
some quiet place, where nobody ever goes--say in France or Germany--and, sticking to that.
More of a rest, wouldn't it be? such a bore having to know a lot; of people!

Culch. I don't see how we can change all the tickets, really. If you like, we could stop a
week at St. Goarshausen.

Podbury. What's St. Goarshausen like--cheery?

Culch. I understood the idea was to keep away from our fellow countrymen, and as far as I can
remember St. Goarshausen, it is not overrun with tourists--we should be quiet enough there.

Podbury. That's the place for me, then. Or could we push on to Vienna? Never seen Vienna.

Culch. If you like to give up Italy altogether.

Podbury. What do you say to beginning with Italy and working back? Too hot, eh? Well, then,
we'll let things be as they are--I daresay it will do well enough. So that's settled!

Culchard (to himself on parting, after final arrangements concluded). I wish ROSE had warned
me that PODBURY's habit of mind was so painfully desultory. (He sighs.) However--

Podbury (to himself). Wonder now long I shall take to get over CULCHARD's manner. (He sighs.)
I wish old HUGHIE was coming--he'd give me a leg over!

    [He walks on thoughtfully.

       *       *       *       *       *

OFF TO MASHERLAND.

(BY OUR OWN GRANDOLPH.)

I pause in my communications. Friends, real friends, have wired over accounts of me on the
trip, which have not been written by "friendlies." Somebody wrote to Black and White what purported
to be Notes about me aboard the gallant Grantully Castle, than which a better-found vessel--"found"
is the word--never put to sea. This somebody ("bless him!"--DR-MM-ND W-LFF will know what I
mean) observes that "he didn't notice" any particular gratitude on my part towards Captain
HAY and his talented assistants. Hay! what? why, confound them, I was all gratitude! Is it
because I did not run at him, embrace him, and shake his arms off, that therefore I did not
feel grateful! I was awfully grateful. I felt inclined to alter the name of the vessel to the
Gratefully Castle. But "she" (you always call a vessel "she"--isn't that nautical?) "is" as
the song says "another's, and never can be mine!" so I can't change her name. I was overpowered
by my feelings--and what does that mean but the swallowing, with a gurgle in the throat, of
the silent tear, and the avoidance of the topic uppermost in one's mind at the moment.

"The soldier leant upon his sword, and wiped away a tear"--but the sailor didn't, Verb. sap.
What did I do? Why, in my note of notes, my Private Diary, I made this mem., "Make Hay while
the sun shines." Now what, I ask any unprejudiced person, what does this mean? If Captain HAY
were suddenly to be promoted in the hay-day of his valuable career to be an Admiral, would
he suspect that he owed this elevation to the man who, strictly obeying the ship's orders,
never even spoke to the man at the wheel? Now to come to the next point. This correspondent
girds at my having had a special cabin and a special steward. Why! the envious grumbler! if
he had been as specially unwell as I was--but there, I own I lose patience with him--didn't
I go out as a "Special," and if a Special doesn't have everything special about him, he is
simply obtaining money under false pretences. I've a great mind--I hear the jeerer snigger
in his sleeve--but I repeat emphatically I have a great mind to come back. "He will return,
I know him well," my traducers may sing; and I shall return when I consider my special work
specially done in my own special manner, and be blowed to em all, the detractors!

