The next day Mendez' telephone was tapped.  Then his secretary left, and the new one he hired
was a Secret Service agent.  The Spaniard never guessed it, for the secretary brought the most
trustworthy references.  Every time Mendez held a meeting of his group of German agents and
talked of how to send information to Germany, the secretary heard all they said, and at once
reported it to his chief.  Every time Mendez telephoned, a Secret Service agent listened to
what he said. Every time he had a conference in his office, if the secretary by chance was
not there, the dictagraph made a record of the conversation, and the Service knew about it.

Naturally such careful watching won in the end.  Mendez, who had caught the German habit of
believing that no one was so clever as himself, did not dream of the net that was being woven
around him, and went on filing his cable messages which, of course, were not sent.  All the
information obtained by the Secret Service was sifted, arranged, and confirmed, and Mendez
was arrested.  With his departure, his whole following was helpless, and settled back to swear
at the United States for its tyranny.  The patient Secret Service had scored again.

So it went.  For every German spy or would-be spy in America, there was an agent of the Secret
Service, equally resourceful, and more likely to succeed, because, no matter how clumsy his
adversary seemed, he never made the mistake of underrating him.  "Stupid Yankees," von Papen
had called us, while he went about his plotting with child-like faith in his skill at hiding.
"Stupid Germans," the Secret Service might have retorted, as it skillfully uncovered all his
plotting and sent him back to his Kaiser, where his stupidity was more appreciated.

But it took many months of patient, unceasing work, and far the greatest part of it was dull,
hard, steady grind.  Rarely was there any excitement for the industrious government agents,
and more rarely was there any glory, for the work had to be kept secret.  Trailing, watching,
studying, thinking, always putting two and two together and often finding that they made five
instead of four; through day and night, through sun and storm, the officers whose duty it was
to catch the spy before he could harm America worked steadily on.

That is why America won at home just as she won abroad.  Had not the silent army in the United
States fought so unceasingly and so skillfully, the army in France would have been paralyzed.
When you think of the Great Victory, remember those quiet, unknown men and women at home who
did so much to help win it, and give full credit to the Secret Service.

ROGER WILLIAM RIIS.

AT THE FRONT

What one soldier writes, millions have experienced.

At first the waiting for orders; the wonder of how to adapt one's nature to the conditions
that lay ahead.  The fear of being afraid. Many times in that last week in London, which now
seems so far away, I did aimless, meaningless things that I had done before; wondering if I
should ever do them again.  Visiting old scenes of happy days, trying, as it were, to conjure
up old associations, for fear the chance might not come again.  Strange, perhaps, but many
of the things I do are strange, and only those who know me best would understand.  My good-by
to you--and the curtain rose on the first act of the drama that I have been privileged to watch,
with every now and then a "walking on" part. The first act was one of absorbing interest, learning
the characters of the play, and my mind was filled with wonder at the plot as day by day it
unfolded before me.  I have tried to write of all the wonders of the Base; its organization
and the mastery of an Empire to serve its ideal in its hour of need.  The second curtain rose
on the trenches, and it is my impressions of this life, rather than of its details, that I
would now write.  The first and greatest is the way the average man has surmounted the impossible,
has brought, as it were, a power to strike that word from his vocabulary.  Living in conditions
which in previous years would have caused his death, he has maintained his vitality of mind
and body.  Healthy amid the pestilence of decaying death, of chill from nights spent sometimes
waist deep in water; or chattering with cold as misty morning finds him saturated with its
clammy cold.  Facing death from bullet, shell, and gas, and all the ingenuity that devilish
manhood can devise, yet remaining the same cheery, lively animal, wondering when it all will
cease.  A new spirit of unselfishness has entered the race, or perchance the old selfishness
bred by years of peace has died, leaving a cleaner, nobler feeling in its place.  Men who before
cheated their neighbors, grasping to themselves all that came their way, have learned instinctively
to share their little all. The message from Mars, "Halves, partner," has become the general
spirit; and yet some say that there is no finer side to war!  As for the officers, as a rule,
no words for them can be too fine.  For they have learned at once to be the leaders and the
servants of their men, tiring themselves out for others' comforts.  And the men know it; from
them can come no class hatred in future years.  If danger lies in that direction it must surely
come from those who have stayed at home.

For myself, I am slowly learning my lesson; learning that death, which seems so near one, seldom
shakes one by the hand.  Learning to look over the "top" to encourage those whose duty makes
them do so. Learning to walk out with a wiring party to "No Man's Land," or to set a patrol
along its way.  Learning to share the risks that others run so as to win the confidence of my men.

Now let me say a word of the demoralizing effects of dugouts: Often it takes a conscious effort
to leave its safety or to stay away from it for the dangers of level ground, and this is what
all officers must learn; for men can have no confidence in one who, ordering them out, stays
underground himself.  I am learning, but, oh! so slowly, for mine is not a nature that is really
shaped for war.  A vivid imagination is here a handicap, and it is those who have little or
none who make the best soldiers.  At last the "finished and finite clod" has come into his
own.  Stolid, in a danger he hardly realizes, he remains at his post, while the other, perchance
shaking in every limb, has double the battle to fight.  My pencil wanders on and I hardly seem
to know what I write.  Confused thoughts and half-formed impressions crowd through my brain,
and from the chaos some reach the paper.  What kind of reading do they make?  I wonder.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

I'm awfully tired, but this may well be my last undisturbed night this week, and I know how
much letters must mean to you waiting and waiting for news in England.  All afternoon I've
been wandering about the front line, exploring, and learning to find my way about that desolate
waste of devastation representing recently captured ground.  One waded knee high amid tangled
undergrowth dotted with three-foot stakes, and learned from the map that this was a wood. 
One looked for a railway, where only a buried bar of twisted metal could be found.  One road
we could not find at all, so battered was the countryside; and so after five and a half hours'
wandering, we returned to a dinner of soup, steak, stewed fruit, and cocoa.  Today I noticed
for the first time the wonderful variety of insect life in the trenches; flies and beetles
of gorgeous and varied color showing against the vivid white of the fresh-cut chalk.  Past
a famous mining village which for two years has been swept by shell fire, now British, now
German, until nothing save the village Crucifix remains unbattered; iron, brick, and concrete,
twisted by the awful destructive power of high explosives.  Graves dating back to October,
1915, and up to the present time, lie scattered here and there, but each with the name of the
fallen one well marked on it, waiting to be claimed when Peace shall come.  As I walked the
old lines flashed into my head--

  "And though you be done to the death, what then,
    If you battled the best you could?

Strange! but nowhere did I see a German grave other than those with the inscription in English,
"A German Soldier killed in action."  Dead Germans have I seen, but never a German grave.

There seems to be no bird life here, beyond a rare covey of partridges well behind the line,
or a solitary lark searching for summer.  One misses--oh, so much!--the cheeky chirp of the
sparrow or the note of the thrush.  We found a stray terrier about yesterday and have adopted
it, but I don't think it will go into the front line: there's enough human suffering, without
adding innocent canine victims that cannot understand.  Here let me say a word for the horses
and mules, exposed to dangers and terror (for mules actually come into the trenches to within
200 yards of the line), patiently doing their work, often terrified, often mutilated and never
understanding why they have been taken from their peaceful life to the struggle and hardship
of war. Much has been written, much is being done, but how few realize it from their point
of view.  The men are wonderful, their cheerfulness, their ability to work is nothing short
of marvelous; but for the others, the animals, their patient slavery is more wonderful, still.

Coming over the ridge tonight I saw the distant hills against the after-glow of sunset; the
moment was quiet, as one often finds it so; for those few seconds no guns were firing, no shells
bursting, and not even the distant "ping" of a rifle was to be heard.  It seemed so English,
just as though we were on one of our September holidays in the car, looking towards the north
hill country that I love so much.  Then suddenly the guns started, and we were at war again.
There is one of those strange feelings of expectation in the air tonight, as though there were
great things pending, and yet all is normal as far as we know.  Who knows, perhaps the end
is not as far as we believe.  A few more days of trial and we shall have earned our next rest.

I go to my so-called bed, to try and snatch a few short hours' sleep, lulled by the music of
the guns that have started their nightly hate.

My love to you.  Keep smiling.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Picture if you can a flight of twenty-four steps leading into the darkness of the underground.
At the foot of this a room, if room it can be called, some thirteen feet by ten by seven high,
the walls of tree trunks and railway sleepers, the roof of corrugated iron resting on railway
lines; from this hang stalactites of rust, and large and loathsome insects creep about; above
lives a colony of rats: such is our living-room, damp with a dampness that reaches one's bones
and makes all things clammy to the touch.  A couple of tables, a chair, and some boxes, such
is our dining-room suite.  From this a long, narrow, low passage leads to the kitchen, signalers'
and 'phone room, officers' bunks and office.  By day and night one stumbles among sleeping
soldiers off duty, tired enough to find sleep on the boarded floor.  My bed,--a couple of boards
and some sand-bags,--is four feet from the ground, too narrow for safety, and yet I sleep.
Men who previously grumbled at an eight-hour day, now do eighteen hours for seven days a week--such
is war, and such is the spirit in which they take it.

