M. Simond, in his Tour in Italy and Sicily, tells us that the Coliseum is too ruinous--that
the Egyptian Museum in the Vatican puts him in mind of the five wigs in the barber Figaro's
shop-window--that the Apollo Belvidere looks like a broken-backed young gentleman shooting
at a target for the amusement of young ladies. Speaking of the Etruscan vases, he says, "As
to the alleged elegance of form, I should be inclined to appeal from the present to succeeding
generations, when the transformation of every pitcher, milk-pot and butter-pan, into an antique
shape, has completely burlesqued away the classical feeling, and restored impartiality to taste."

       *       *       *       *       *

About six or seven-and-twenty years ago, an effort was made to revive the fashion of ladies
visiting the House of Commons. The late Queen Caroline, then Princess of Wales, upon one or
two occasions made her appearance, with a female attendant, in the side-gallery. The royal
visit soon became generally known, and several other females were tempted to follow the example.
Among these was Mrs. Sheridan, the wife of the late Right Honourable Richard Brinsley Sheridan;
but this lady, considering herself an intruder, to whose presence, if known, exception might
be taken, thought fit to disguise her person in male attire. Her fine dark hair was combed
smooth on her forehead, and made to sit close, in good puritanical trim, while a long, loose,
brown coat concealed her feminine proportions. Thus prepared, she took her seat in the Strangers'
Gallery, anxious to witness a display of her husband's eloquence; but he did not speak, and
the debate proved without any interest. The female aspirants whose taste was thus excited,
were, however, confined to a few blue-stocking belles, without influence to set the fashion;
and the attempt did not succeed.

       *       *       *       *       *

MOCHA.

The buildings of Mocha are so white, that it seems as if excavated from a quarry of marble;
and this whiteness of the town forms a curious contrast with the blueness of the sea. The materials,
however, of which Mocha is constructed, are nothing better than unburnt bricks, plastered over,
and whitewashed. Vegetables are grown round the town, and fruits are brought from Senna; while
grain, horses, asses, and sheep, are imported from Abyssinia. There are twelve schools in the
town; and, inland, near Senna, there are colleges, in which the twelve branches of Mohomedan
sciences are taught, as is usual in Turkey and India. Arab women marry about the age of sixteen;
they are allowed great liberty in visiting one another, and can divorce their husbands on very
slight grounds.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH AND FOREIGN NEWSPAPERS.

Every one acquainted with the public press of Europe, must have observed the contrast which
a London Newspaper forms with the journals of every other capital in Europe. The foreign journals
never break in upon the privacy of domestic life. There the fame of parties and dinners is
confined to the rooms which constitute their scene, and the names of the individuals who partake
of them never travel out of their own circle. How widely different is the practice of the London
Journals! A lady of fashion can find no place so secret where she can hide herself from their
search. They follow her from town to country, from the country to the town. They trace her
from the breakfast-table to the Park, from the Park to the dinner-table, from thence to the
Opera or the ball, and from her boudoir to her bed. They trace her every where. She may make
as many doubles as a hare, but they are all in vain; it is impossible to escape pursuit; and
yet the introduction of female names into the daily newspapers, now so common, is only of modern
date.

The late Sir Henry Dudley Bate, editor of The Morning Herald, was the first person who introduced
females into the columns of a newspaper. He was at the time editor of The Morning Post.-- New
Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Gatherer.

  A snapper up of unconsidered trifles.

SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

REFLECTION IN A FLOWER GARDEN.

  I hate the flower whose wanton breast[9]
    Awaits the sun at morn and noon,
  And when he's hid behind the west,
    As gaily flaunteth with the moon.

  Mine be the flower of virgin leaf,
    That when its sire has left the plain,
  Wraps up its charms in silent grief,
    Nor ope's them till he comes again.

E.K.

    [9] There be some flowers that do remain quite unclosed, during
        not only the day, but during also the night. There be others
        which do likewise open during the day, albeit when night
        cometh, they close themselves up until the sun do appear,
        when they again ope their beautifulness.--Old Botanist.

       *       *       *       *       *

A "THIN NIGHT" AT VAUXHALL.

There were fewer audience than performers, and those made up of fellows evidently not in the
habit of shirt-wearing; of women there were very few-- of ladies none; the fireworks were bad
and brief, and the waterworks the most absurd affair I ever beheld; the thing was overdone.
To the people who would like to go to Vauxhall in fine weather, second-rate Italian singing
and broken down English prima donnas are no inducement, a bad ballet in a booth has no attraction,
and an attempt at variety mars the whole affair. Vauxhall is a delightful place to go to in
fine weather with a pleasant party; give us space to walk, light up that space, and shelter
us from the elements, set the military bands to play popular airs, and we ask no more for our
four or five shillings, or whatever it is; but the moment tumbling is established in various
parts of the garden, and the whole thing is made a sort of Bartholomew Fair, the object of
breathing a little fresher air, and hearing ourselves talk is ended; crowds of raffs in boots
and white neckcloths attended by their dowdy damsels and waddling wives, rush from one place
to another, helter skelter, knocking over the few quiet people to whom the "sights" are a novelty;
turning what in the days of the late Lady Castlereagh, the present Duchess of Bedford, the
first Duchess of Devonshire, and the last Duchess of Gordon (but one) was a delightful reunion
of fashion, into a tea-garden (without tea) or a bear-garden--not without bears.--Sharpe's
Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE AND LORD NOEL BYRON.

It is a singular coincidence, not unworthy of remark, that the initials of two of the most
singular men of their own, and perhaps of any age, the Emperor Napoleon of France, and Lord
Noel Byron of England, used the same letters as an abbreviation of their name, N.B. which likewise
denotes Nota Bene.