The very first specimen to which we come, is one of that very pretty tribe the Clematideæ,
the Clematis montana, which is closely covering a wall of ten feet high, and at least twenty
in width, thence throwing out its branches, extending itself over the adjacent wall of the
house, and occasionally sending a stray shoot or two to adorn my neighbour's garden. Now, how
do those slight, long stems, which stretch, some of them twenty or thirty feet from the parent
stalk, support and arrange themselves so as to preserve a neat and ornamental appearance without
my having had the least trouble in training them? If you gather one of those loose branches,
you will see that it has no tendril of any kind, or other apparent means of support; but this,
like all others of the clematideæ or clematis tribe, possesses a power of twisting the leaf-stalk
round a wire, twig, or anything else that comes in its way, so as to tie the plant to the support
with as firm a knot as could be made with a piece of string; and after thus encircling the
wire, it returns the leaf to its former position, with the upper side outwards, exactly as
it was before. Some of the clematis tribe make this fulcrum from one part of the leaf-stalk,
and some from another. In that which we are examining, it is formed from the lowest part next
the main stalk of the plant. In the wild clematis (C. vitalba)--that kind which runs so freely
over hedges and thickets in the southern counties, adorning the country in winter with snowy
tufts of feathers, formed by its seed-vessels--a part of the stalk between two pair of the
leaflets forms this twist; whilst in the sweet-scented garden-clematis, other parts of the
stem give the support: but it is always by means of some portion or other of this member, that
plants of this tribe are sustained in their rapid and extensive climbing. It is curious to
observe what instinctive aptitude to curve towards suitable objects, and towards them only,
is exhibited in the holdfasts of climbing-plants. They never bend towards a wall, board, or
other flat substance, when there is nothing to lay hold of; but the moment they touch a suitable
object, they instantly fix on it, forming closely compacted rings, which can be untwisted only
when young. As the plant rises from one height to another, the little green shoots above send
out fresh leaves, each having the same prehensile properties, which they keep in reserve till
called on to apply them to their proper use; whilst at the same time, the lower rings are becoming
indurated, so that, as the plant grows longer and heavier, its supports become stronger and
harder. There are other plants besides the clematideæ which thus support themselves, of which
the Maurandya Barclayana and the Canariensis are examples; and the manner in which these accommodate
themselves to the exact form of the object on which they seize, is very remarkable. If the
support is round, the ring is also round; but if they fix on a square lath, or other angular
thing, the stem forms to it, so that when the prop is removed, the ring retains the exact form
of that prop, every angle being as sharp and true, as if it were moulded in wax.

Now, the next plant which greets us is the ivy (Hedera helix), and this differs wholly in its
means of support from almost any other creeper; yet there is none that takes firmer hold, or
maintains more strongly its position, than this beautiful creeper, whose ceaseless verdure
well deserves the name of ivy--a word derived from the Celtic, and signifying green. It is
supported by means of a whitish fringe of fibres, that are thrust out from one side of every
part of the stem which comes in contact with any wall or other supporting object to which it
can cling. Should a foreign substance, such as a leaf, intervene between it and that object,
the fibres lengthen until they extend beyond the impediment; and then they fix on the desired
object, and cease to grow.

These fibres, however; are not true roots--a branch with only such roots, would not grow if
planted in the earth--they are mere holdfasts, and the plant does not receive any portion of
its nourishment through them. The upper part of the plant, where it has mounted above the wall
and become arborescent, is wholly devoid of such fibres, which never appear but when they have
some object to fix upon.

And now, let us look at that which is the very pride of my garden, and which well deserves
the name bestowed on it by a poetic-minded friend--'the patrician flower:' I mean the beautiful
Cobea scandens; and here we are introduced to quite a different class of holdfasts from either
of those which we have examined. The blossom of the cobea is formed of a curious and elegantly-formed
calyx of five angles, exquisitely veined, and of a tender green--itself a flower, or, at least,
when divested of its one bell-shaped petal, looking like one. From this calyx slowly unfolds
a noble bell, at first of a soft, creamy green; but the second day of its existence it becomes
tinged and veined with a delicate plum colour, which on the third day is its prevailing hue.
The blossom is then in its full perfection; the vigorous green filaments supporting the anthers
curve outwards; the long anthers, in the same manner as those of the white lily, open lengthways,
and disclose rich masses of yellow pollen; whilst the single pistil stands gracefully between
its five supporters, crowned with a globular purple style. On the last day or two of its existence,
the bell is of a full, deep puce colour, and then drops, leaving the calyx bare, from which
in due time is developed a handsome fruit, something like that of the passion-flower. The flower-stalk
is from four to six inches long, and stands finely out from the wall, many blossoms being exhibited
at the same time in different stages of development.

But now of the holdfast, which is our special subject. And this needs to be of a strong kind,
for the branches of this plant have been known, in an English conservatory, to run to the length
of 200 feet in one summer; and no doubt, in its native Mexico, where it has nothing to impede
its growth, its shoots run even more freely. Behold, then, at distances of from three to four
inches, all up the main stem; and also, on every shoot and branch which that stem throws out,
grows a leaf, composed of three pair of leaflets, beautifully veined, and tinted with reddish
purple, from between the last pair of which springs a tendril of extreme elegance. Indeed,
noble as is this plant in every part, I think this tendril is the crowning grace of the whole:
it is exceedingly slender, throwing off side-branches, which, again, repeatedly fork off at
acute angles in pairs, and each extremity of each branch is furnished with a minute and delicate
hook, so small as to be scarcely perceptible, but so strong and sharp-pointed as to lay hold
of every object in its way--which hold it retains, when once well fixed, in spite of wind or
weather. If this tendril remains long unattached, it becomes elongated to ten or twelve inches,
or even more; and certainly a more elegant object than it presents when in this state can scarcely
be seen, nor one which forms a more graceful ornament to a vase of flowers, if introduced as
it grows, depending from one of the vigorous young purple shoots, itself shining with a sort
of metallic lustre, and richly coloured with green and purple. But it is only on the loose
young shoots that it assumes this very graceful appearance. If it is sufficiently near to a
wall, or other support, instead of thus hanging pendent, its main stalk nearest the leaf contracts
into a spiral form, thus shortening the tendril, and giving it greater power than so frail
and slight a thing could otherwise possess; and the elasticity produced by the convolutions
enables the branch slightly to yield to the influence of the wind, which makes it less likely
to be torn down. Each extremity, as I have said, is armed with a hook, which hook, as soon
as it touches, lays firm hold on the wall; and these tendrils occurring close together, and
a large proportion of them fixing on some object, a wonderfully strong support is afforded
to the plant. This plant is called by some people, 'the violet-bearing ivy,' although no leaf
or blossom can be less like the ivy or the violet than that of the cobea.

And now, let us pass onwards. There is another tendriled plant, the passion-vine; and this
has a cirrus or tendril quite of a different kind from that we have just examined. It is simple
and unbranched, springing from the axil of the leaf, straight when young, but speedily becoming
spiral, and forming a very close twist round whatever object it seizes. It is spiral to within
an inch, or less, of its root, and encircles its support with six or seven circlets like a
corkscrew, thus clasping it with great firmness. This has no hook or other appendage which
would enable it to fix on a wall or other flat substance; and therefore, unless there are wires,
or some other extraneous supports near, it must be nailed until it reaches a certain height,
when its own stalks supply the requisite props on which the tendrils may lay hold. The grape
and many other vines are furnished with tendrils, which spring from the root of the leaf-stalk;
that of the grapevine is slightly branched, but not furnished with any hook. One of its tendrils
usually grows close to the stem of the fruit, and thus sustains the heavy bunch of grapes which
must otherwise, when it increases to a weight of many pounds, either break from its stem, or
else pull down the branch on which it grows.

And now we approach the beautiful Ipomoea, or major convolvulus, which affords us a specimen
of quite a different mode of progression from that displayed in any creeper we have as yet
looked at, for it has neither tendril nor fibrous roots. 'Oh, that must be a mistake!' says
some fine lady. 'My last Berlin pattern was of convolvuli, and that lovely group of flowers
I copied had several blossoms in it, and I am sure there were plenty of tendrils in both.'
No doubt, fair lady; but convolvuli in Berlin patterns, and those which are wrought in 'nature's
looms,' differ wonderfully. In the former, not only the climbing convolvulus, but the common
blue one (C. minor), is richly furnished with tendrils, whilst those of Dame Nature display
no such appendage. Now, take a real flower of this tribe--the common bind-weed from the hedge
will do as well as any other--and you will see that the means provided for it to run up any
stick or stem it may meet, is a peculiar property it has, of twining its stem round and round
that of any other plant near it; and so strong is this necessity to assume a spiral coil, or
rather to twist and unite itself with some other stem, that you may often see two, three, or
four sister-stalks of the same plant inwreathed into one stout cable, which union, though it
does not enable the feeble stems to ascend, yet seems to increase their strength. But supply
the young shoot with a stick or wire, or even a bit of twine, and see how rapidly it will then
climb, and clasp, and throw out longer and stronger shoots, and overspread your wall with its
large bell-shaped flowers, so brilliant with every tint of white, lilac, pink, and rose colour,
and so exquisitely delicate in their texture, expanding at earliest dawn, and closing, never
to reopen, when the fervid rays of the noonday sun fall on them! But I must not attempt to
depict every variety of holdfast, or every provision for climbing with which it has pleased
God to invest and beautify the different kinds of creeping-plants: it would detain us far too
long; yet Mrs Grimshawe owes it to herself, to justify her devotion to the holdfast of the
Virginian creeper (Ampelopsis hederacea), and that must be described.

Every one knows this plant, for although a native of North America, it is now one of the commonest
coverings of our walls, as well as one of the prettiest we see. Its beautiful cut leaves are
divided into five lobes, which, when first developed, are of a bright light-green, while the
whole of the young stem and shoot is red; those take, by degrees, a deeper hue of green, and
early in the autumn assume a brilliant scarlet tint, at which time they are very lovely. The
means by which this plant takes so firm a hold of whatever supports it, is highly curious.
From the stem of the tree is sent out on one side a leaf, and exactly opposite to it a shining,
thread-like tendril, tinged with red, from one to one and a half inches long, dividing into
five branches, and each terminating in a little hook. When one of these little hooks touches
a wall, or comes in contact with anything it is able to cling to, it begins to thicken, expands
into a granulated mass of a bright-red hue, loses the form of a hook and assumes that of a
club, from the edges of which club a thin membrane extends, and attaches itself firmly to the
wall after the manner of a sucker. If all five of the extremities happen to touch, they all
go through the same process; and when all are spread out on the wall, each with its extension
complete, the tendril looks much like the foot of a bird; but none of the hooks change in this
way, unless they are so situated as to be able to fix on the wall. One of these strong holdfasts
occurs at about every two inches on every stem and branch; and as a very large proportion of
them get hold of some substance or other, the vine becomes more strongly fixed in its place
than those which have been nailed or otherwise artificially fastened; and if the wall on which
it climbs is at all rough, it must be very boisterous weather indeed that can dislodge its
pretty covering. If by any means a branch is forced away from the wall, you will generally
find either that it has brought away a portion of the stucco with it, or else that the stems
of the tendril have broken, and left the sucker-like extremities still adhering. The appearance
of one of these tendrils when young is beautiful; and if you place it under a microscope while
it is assuming its knobby form, you will admire its exquisite texture and colouring. This,
like the ivy, when it rises above the wall, becomes arborescent, and ceases to throw out tendrils.

There are many other provisions for aiding plants in climbing. Some ascend simply by means
of the friction which the hairy or gummy cuticle of their stems affords--that sort of Galium
commonly called 'cleavers' or 'cliver,' and the wild madder (Rubia pelegrina), are instances
of this--then there are others which send out simple tendrils from the point of each leaf.
There is also a plant called the 'heartseed' or 'balloon vine,' from its inflated membraneous
capsule, in which the tendrils grow from the flower-stalks; and another, one of the custard-apple
tribe (Annona hexapetala), of which Smith tells us--'the flower-stalk of this tree forms a
hook, and grasps the neighbouring branch, serving to suspend the fruit, which is very heavy,
resembling a bunch of grapes.' The pea and vetch tribe, the pompion and cucumber, and various
other plants, afford instances of provisions of these and similar kinds. But as I hope I may
have succeeded in leading some of my readers to see what abundant subjects of interest may
be found in the contemplation of even the appendages of plants, I shall now take my leave,
only strongly advising all who wish to find a country life profitable and agreeable, to endeavour
to supply themselves with some simple natural pursuit, such as gardening or botany, either
of which may lead to investigations that will well repay their trouble, even should they refer
to nothing more than the structure of the leaves or tendrils of the trees and shrubs which
grow around their dwelling.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] See 'Mrs Grimshawe's Garden,' No. 413.

A DAY'S PLEASURING IN INDIA.

Parell[4] was full of guests; and in order to afford them a greater diversity of amusement
than the daily routine of a monotonous Eastern life affords, our excellent host resolved on
a day's excursion to the island of Salsette, accepting an invitation to rest for an hour on
his return at the house of a wealthy Parsee, whose liberality and zeal for the interests of
the Company had won him the favour of the merchant princes' representative. In order to be
ready for our departure at daybreak, we were called at three o'clock. In this country, such
an hour sounds uncomfortable; we are all inclined to sympathise with the writer of the old
Scotch ballad, and declare--

    'Up in the morning's no for me,
    Up in the morning early;'

but in India, it is a luxurious theft from sleep; and even now the remembrance of my starlit
bath of that Indian morning comes pleasantly across my mind. The bath was literally taken by
starlight; for the tumbler of oil, with its floating wick--which is the ordinary lamp of the
country--was hardly seen in its far-off corner, when I unclosed the jalousies, and admitted
the solemn, silvery planet-light. The window above the bath opened into the garden; and it
is scarcely possible to conceive greater physical enjoyment than reclining in the warm element,
listening to the soft sounds proceeding from without--the castanet music of the singing-tree,
the rustling of the fan-palm, the trickling of the fountain: even the distant cry of the retiring
jackal was pleasant; whilst above the giant palms, I could see the dark violet of the sky,
on which the

      ----'Ship of Heaven
    Came sailing from Eternity,'

and from whence Canopus threw its laughing lustre full on the water in which I was immersed,
and kept me for a time motionless, lest I should break or mar its beautiful reflection. But
every enjoyment has its dark shadow: as life has its 'insect cares,' so Eastern night has its
mosquitoes; and a sore contest one has with them on issuing from the bath at such an hour.
How they flit about, imps of evil as they are, and sound their horn of defiance in our ear!--a
very marvellous sound to proceed from such tiny creatures, and, to persons of irritable nerves,
worse even than their sting, or at least an additional horror. They proved strong incentives
to a hasty toilette; and the whole gipsying-party was speedily assembled in the hall, where
coffee and biscuits were handed round. Then followed a pleasant drive through the fresh morning
air; and it was not without regret that we exchanged the open carriages for the close imprisonment
of the palanquins, in which shortly after we threaded the mazes of the jungle. It was still
early morning when we reached the cave in which we purposed remaining during the heat of the
day. Outside, a tent had been pitched for the servants; within, a splendid breakfast was spread
for ourselves--tables, chairs, food, and cooks having preceded the party thither. Books and
prints were also provided, to beguile the tedium of our inevitable seclusion, and pleasant
companionship promised a still greater resource against ennui.

The caves of Salsette have been already so often described--once by the pen of Heber--that
I shall not attempt a repetition, but content myself with informing my readers, that we occupied
the large one, dedicated to the ancient worship of the Buddhists; a gloomy temple, but cool,
and possessing a certain interest from having been the scene of superstitious horrors round
which hang the mystery of an almost unknown past.

After dinner, we prepared to mount the hill, and explore the smaller cells in which the hermits
of Buddhism had formerly dwelt. The ascent, though very steep, was not difficult, and, once
gained, afforded a glorious view of the island and the distant sea. The caves, with their singular
stone-carvings and reliefs, were also very interesting, and must have been pleasant abodes
for the worthy men who there had aimed at a pleasanter saintship than that attained by the
tortures to which the followers of Brahma, and of his legion of subordinate deities, often
subject themselves. We amused ourselves for some time examining these cells, and not till the
sun was sinking behind the taller trees of the jungle below, did we think of returning. Our
descent, however, was to be effected by another and far more difficult pathway than that by
which we had mounted the hill--steps or niches irregularly cut in the mountain's side, offering
the only means of reaching the cave below. My head turns at the very recollection! The chief
of the hamals had followed us; I looked at his naked feet, that with such a charming certainty
grasped the rock, and resolved on making him my cavalier servente, backing my gracious intimation
to that effect with the promise of a rupee for guerdon, at which he appeared more pleased than
at the honour of the selection; and thus grasping the arm of my black knight, I began the terrible
task before me, having purposely lingered out of sight till the rest of the party were at the
bottom.

But, alas! a very kind, very good-natured, very stout gentleman in tight boots--I had not observed
how very tight they were!--perceived my incongruous escort, and hastened back to take his place.
In vain I represented my partiality for my companion of shoeless feet and steady eye; he was
as incredulous as Desdemona's father was of her love for the Moor. In vain I deprecated 'giving
him so much trouble;' his politeness was resolute; and I was compelled to accept the assistance
of his hand, and with a beating heart to make the first step. Alas! in this instance it was
not only la premier pas qui coute; the fourth and fifth were worse; at the sixth my courage
failed me utterly, and I felt an insane desire to throw myself over the precipice, and thus
terminate the horror of fear and giddiness that distracted me. I begged my companion to let
me go, but he good-naturedly suggested that I might as well try to live a little longer, and
therefore advised me to shut my eyes, and let him lift my feet from step to step. I was obliged
to comply, and thus, to the great amusement of the party beneath, we made our tedious way down
the hillside. If any of my readers have ever felt the kind of panic I have tried to describe,
they will understand and sympathise with me on the occasion. The precipice below was really
very alarming, and there was nothing on the bare side of the mountain that could soothe the
imagination with the hope of something to clutch at. Still, I felt more ridiculous than I had
ever thought I could be, when, on reaching the foot, I received the bantering congratulations
of the others; and my assistant, with a bow, assured me 'that we had effected our descent with
the agility and grace of two antelopes!'

We returned to the principal cave to have coffee, and then, re-entering our palanquins, were
soon again in the depth of the jungle. I was tired--one soon wearies in that climate; the light
was dim and solemn; and the chant of the bearers, by its monotony, helped to lull me into a
sound slumber, for which the palanquin is always an agreeable cradle; and thus, in deep sleep,
I was borne onwards, till the halt, to which my bearers at last came, roused me; and with a
very dim recollection of where I was, I started and awoke. For a single instant, I thought
myself still dreaming, however, for an unexpected and surprising vision was before me.

The palanquin had stopped in a large garden, or rather grove, which was brilliantly illuminated
with coloured lamps; even the lofty cocoa-nut trees were not without a crown of rainbow tinted
light. As I was assisted in my exit from the palanquin, two young Parsee boys, in flowing white
robes, girt with a scarlet shawl round the waist, advanced and presented me, the one with a
large bouquet of roses, tied, after their usual fashion, round a slender stick, and dripping
with rose-water; the other, with a thin long chip of sandal-wood, having at the end a small
piece of white cotton, steeped in delicious attar of roses. After receiving their gifts, I
was conducted by them to the house, where the owner, a Parsee merchant, met and welcomed me
with the ordinary salutation, pressing his hand to his head and heart, and then offering it
to me. My palanquin had arrived last, and I found all the rest of the party seated round a
table covered with a splendid repast--a regular hot supper, intermingled with fruit and flowers
in profusion. The chief ornament of the table was a handsome silver vase, presented to our
host by the East India Company, of which he appeared very proud, lifting it from the table,
to shew the inscription on it to each of the party individually. At the end of the banquet,
the quiet attendants moved round with a very elegant silver flagon of rose-water, the neck
of which was very long, and as thin as the tube of a china pipe; from it they poured a few
drops on the head of each of the guests. The sensation produced by this sudden trickling of
cold rose-water is very pleasant, though a little startling to strangers. We had so recently
had refreshment, that we were not inclined to do justice to the hospitality proffered, and
the supper was scarcely tasted; but on rising to go, our host explained to the 'Governor Sahib,'
'that the feast was his: it had been prepared for him; he had looked on it! it was his!' These
polite assertions were a little mystifying, till one of the staff-officers, well versed in
the manners of the natives, explained that the governor was expected to carry off what remained
of the entertainment. It was really difficult to help laughing at the whimsical notion of carrying
away the roast turkeys, kid, fruit, &c., which was before us; but all was actually the perquisite
of the train of attendant servants, and I suppose they took possession of it. The gifts offered
to the governor when travelling are also theirs, when not too valuable; that is to say, when
they only consist--as they generally do in mere villages--of fruit, eggs, nuts, and sweetmeats.
If the present be, as it occasionally is, a camel, with its head painted green or red, it is
usual to accept it, re-paint it blue or yellow, and make a return present of it, to the original
donor, who, of course, feigns to be totally unacquainted with the animal thus 'translated.'
Gifts made to the governor become the property of the East India Company, as no servant of
the Company is permitted to receive a private present; and it would be the height of discourtesy
to refuse the wonted and time-honoured 'offering' made on the occasion of a visit to the Burra
Sahib.

After many courteous salaams and farewells on the part of our host, we resumed our journey,
gratified at this glimpse of the interior of a native home. The Parsees are generally rich,
and their houses or bungalows are large and handsome. Their adoration of light tends greatly
to the embellishment of their dwellings, as to every upper panel of the wainscoting they attach
a branch for wax-candles, which are lighted every night, and give to the building the appearance
of being illuminated. These 'children of the light' are a fine race, very handsome and intelligent.
The upper servants at Parell were all Parsees; one, named Argiesia was an especial favourite
with us all, having always a shrewd and amusing answer for every question put to him. We remember
on the occasion of a total eclipse of the sun, which took place during our stay in Bombay,
asking him why the people of the village near the house made such a noise with their tom-toms.
His reply was:

'Because ignorant people, Ma'am Sahib, think great serpent is swallowing the sun, and they
try to frighten him away with big noise.'

'And what do you think the shadow is, Argiesia?' we asked. He looked grave for a minute--one
never sees an Oriental look puzzled!--and then answered:

'Sun angry men are so wicked. In anger, him hide his face.' This ready-witted and poetical
Ghebir met his death, not long after, in one of his own sacred elements, being drowned in the
Mahr River, 'where ford there is none.' He once expressed great surprise to me that a nation
possessing Regent Street--a description of which he had received from his father--'should come
to live in India.'

It was night when we reached Parell after our day's pleasuring; and we all agreed that the
climate of India, during the winter months, is of all others the best adapted for picnics,
which are so often marred in England by ill-timed showers or gloom; and yet, certain memories
came back half reproachfully as we spoke, painting to our mental vision the pretty lanes and
fresh green dells and dingles of England, the soft cool breeze, the varied and flitting shadows,
the open-air enjoyment of many a past summer-day, when in our own merry island we

    'Went a gipsying a long time ago,'

and we gave an involuntary sigh for the country of our birth.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] Residence of the governor of the Bombay presidency.

THE LONDON PRISONS OF THE LAST CENTURY.

In the year 1728, an opinion was entertained that much cruelty and rapacity were exercised
by the keepers of the great prisons in London. It was known that they had almost unlimited
power in their hands, that they were not subject to regular inspection, and that it was scarcely
possible to bring them to justice for their treatment of those committed to their charge. It
was argued, that it is impossible to depend upon the lenity of men who have such powers over
their fellow-creatures, and that these officers must be supposed more than human if they did
not occasionally abuse their authority. Of their having actually done so, many rumours had
from time to time reached parliament. But in making out a case for inquiry, its strongest supporters
had but a very slight forecast of the horrors it was to divulge. It may here be remarked, that
before the proper arrangements for official responsibility and regular systematic management
in such matters as prison discipline or the custody of the insane were devised, our free parliament
did incalculable service by its inquiries and exposures. In that august assembly, every tale
of formidable injustice or oppression was sure to receive a ready auditory; and its power was
so transcendent, that every door flew open at its command, and no influence could protect the
wrong-doer from its sweeping vengeance. With such a body in existence, even the worst governments
which Britain has known could not keep up those mysterious agents of tyranny, secret state-prisons,
which continue to be the curse of every despotic country. Yet it will be seen, that for want
of some more immediate and direct responsibility, the abuses in the prisons even of this country
had risen to a very dreadful height.

The member who headed the inquiry was Colonel Oglethorpe. He was a man of literary talent--a
dashing and intrepid soldier, but still more renowned for his wide and active benevolence.

A committee obtained by his influence, did not conduct its inquiry in easy state in St Stephen's,
but appalled the guilty parties by immediately repairing to the prisons, and diving to the
furthest recesses of their dungeons. In the Marshalsea, it found that even those who paid excessive
fees for their lodgings, were laid in lairs above each other on boards set on tressels, where
they were packed so close together, that many were believed to have died from mere deficiency
of air. There was no doubt that many others, debtors, had come to a miserable end by starvation.
Some were found in the last stage of attenuation. Those who could not provide for themselves,
had nothing to feed on but a scanty charity-allowance from the benevolence of individuals,
which, when distributed among the whole, furnished each with sometimes only a few peas in the
day; and at intervals of several days, an ounce and a half of meat. 'When the miserable wretch,'
say the committee in their report, 'hath worn out the charity of his friends, and consumed
the money which he hath raised upon his clothes and bedding, and hath ate his last allowance
of provisions, he usually in a few days grows weak for want of food, with the symptoms of a
hectic fever; and when he is no longer able to stand, if he can raise 3d. a day to pay the
fee of the common nurse of the prison, he obtains the liberty of being carried into the sick-ward,
and lingers on for about a month or two, by the assistance of the above-mentioned prison portion
of provision, and then dies.' The committee made more lifelike this horrible description of
the state of the prison by describing the results of their efforts to relieve the sufferers.
They said: 'On the giving food to these poor wretches--though it was done with the utmost caution,
they being only allowed the smallest quantities, and that of liquid nourishment--one died;
the vessels of his stomach were so disordered and contracted for want of use, that they were
totally incapable of performing their office, and the unhappy creature perished about the time
of digestion.' These prisoners were debtors, not criminals. We make our extracts from the reports,
just after having heard in a scientific society an examination of the dietary of a large district
of prisons. The difficulty appeared to be, to find the medium that would preserve health without
making the criminal's living in some measure luxurious; and it appeared that, by almost every
dietary in actual use in the district, the prisoners fattened; in fact, they profited so much
in constitution by sobriety, good air, and regular food, however simple, that it was found
a difficult matter to give them what might be considered a bare sufficiency, without raising
their physical condition, and sending them out of prison with improved constitutions. So different
is imprisonment for crime in the present age, from imprisonment for debt a hundred and twenty
years ago.

