"

"So your master would sometimes be across the water?"

"Lawdy, yas'm, he be dere somewhere in de back part o' de world. You see he wus gov'nur. He
knowed all de big people--Mr. Ben Tillman and all--he was senetra."

"Auntie do you remember seeing any of the soldiers during the war?"

"Does I? Law honey! Dey come dere to de plantachun 'bout ten o'clock after dey surrender. Oh
and dey wus awful, some of 'em wid legs off or arms off. De niggers took all de mules and put
'em down in de sand field. Den dey took all de wimmens and put 'em in de chillun's house. And
dey lef' a guard dere to stand over 'em, and tell him not to git off de foot. You know dey
didn't want put no temptation in de way o' dem soldiers."

"What kind of work did some of the slave women do?"

"Everything. I had a one-legged auntie--she was de seamster. She sew fum one year end to de
odder. Anodder auntie wus a loomer."

"And where did you go to church?"

"We went to de Salem Chu'ch. Yas'm we all go to chu'ch. Marster want us to go to chu'ch. We
sit on one side--so--and dey sit over dere. Dey wus Methodis'. My mother was Methodis', but
dey gib her her letter when freedom come."

"How about dances, Auntie? Did they have dances and frolics?"

"Yassum, on Sadday night. But boys had to git a pass when dey go out or de Padderola git 'em."

"So you had a happy time in those days, eh?"

"Lawdy, yas'm. If de world would done now like dey did den de world wouldn't be in such a mess.
I gwine on eighty-five, but I wish de young ones wus raise now like I was raise. Marster taught
us to do right."

"How many children have you?"

"I had 'leben--seben livin now." Then she laughed. "But I wus ole maid when I git married."

"I wus twenty years old! In dem days all dey hadder do to git married wus step over de broom."

"Step over the broom. Didn't your master have the preacher come and marry you?"

"Lawdy, no'm. De broom wus de law!" Then she laughed. "Jus' say you wanner be married and de
couple git together 'fore witnesses and step ober de broom."

"Do you remember when freedom came?"

"Lawdy yas'm. Mr. DeLoach come riding up to de plantachun in one o' dem low-bellied ca'yages.
He call to Jo and James--dem de boys what stay round de house to bring wood and rake de grass
and sich--he sont Jo and Jim down to all de fields to tell all de hands to come up. Dey unhitch
de mules fum de plows and come wid de chains rattlin', and de cotton hoers put dey hoes on
dey shoulders--wid de blades shinin' in de sun, and all come hurrying to hear what Mr. DeLoach
want wid'em. Den he read de freedom warrant to 'em. One man so upset he start runnin' and run
clear down to de riber and jump in."

EUGENE WESLEY SMITH, 1105 Robert Street, Augusta, Ga., Born 1852

Eugene is 84 years old. He has thin features, trembling lips and a sparse beard. His skin is
a deep brown, lined and veined. His legs showing over white socks are scaly. His hands are
palsied, but his mind is intelligent. He shows evidences of association with white people in
his manner of speech, which at times is in the manner of white persons, again reverting to dialect.

Eugene stated that his father was a slave who belonged to Steadman Clark of Augusta, and acted
as porter in Mr. Clark's jewelry store on Broad Street. His grandmother came from Pennsylvania
with her white owners. In accordance with the laws of the state they had left, she was freed
when she came of age, and married a man named Smith. Her name was Louisa. Eugene's "Arnt" married
a slave. As his mother was free, her children were free, but Eugene added:

"She had put a Guardian over us, and Captain Crump was our guardian. Guardians protected the
Negro children who belonged to them."

To illustrate that children were considered the property of the mothers' owners, he added that
his uncle went to Columbia County and married a slave, and that all of her children belonged
to her master.

Mr. Clark, who owned Eugene's father, paid him 50¢ a week, and was angry when Louisa refused
to allow her children to work for him.

"He was good in a way," admitted Eugene, "Some masters were cruel to the colored people, but
a heap of white people won't believe it.

"I was too little to do any work before freedom. I just stayed with my mother, and ran around.
She did washing for white folks. We lived in a rented house. My father's master, Mr. Clark,
let him come to see us sometimes at night. Free colored folks had to pay taxes. Mother had
to pay taxes. Then when they came of age, they had to pay taxes again. Even in Augusta you
had to have a pass to go from house to house. They had frolics. Sometimes the white people
came and looked at 'em having a good time.

Asked about school, Eugene said:

"Going to school wasn't allowed, but still some people would slip their children to school.
There was an old Methodist preacher, a Negro named Ned Purdee, he had a school for boys and
girls going on in his back yard. They caught him and put him in jail. He was to be put in stocks
and get so many lashes every day for a month. They put his feet and hands in the holes, and
he was supposed to be whipped across his back."

"I read in the paper where a lady said slaves were never sold here in Augusta at the old market,
but I saw them selling slaves myself. They put them up on something like a table, bid 'em off
just like you would horses or cows. Dey was two men. I kin rekellect. I know one was called
Mr. Tom Heckle. He used to buy slaves, speculating. The other was named Wilson. They would
sell your mother from the children. That was the reason so many colored people married their
sisters and brothers, not knowing until they got to talking about it. One would say, 'I remember
my grandmother,' and another would say, "that's my grandmother," then they'd find out they
were sister and brother.

"Speculators used to steal children," said Eugene. "I saw the wagons. They were just like the
wagons that came from North Carolina with apples in. Dey had big covers on them. The speculators
had plantations where they kept the children until they were big enough to sell, and they had
an old woman there to tend to those children."

"I was a butler." (A dreamy look came into Eugene's old eyes.) "So I were young. I saw a girl
and fell in love with her, and asked her to marry me. 'Yes,' she said, 'when I get grown!'
I said, 'I am not quite grown myself.' I was sixteen years old. When I was twenty-one years
old I married her in my father's house. My mother and father were dead then. I had two sisters
left, but my brothers were dead too."

"I quit butling when I got married. They was enlarging the canal here. It was just wide enough
for the big flats to go up with cotton. They widened it, and I went to work on dat, for $1.25
a day. They got in some Chinese when it was near finished, but they wasn't any good. The Irishmen
wouldn't work with niggers, because they said they could make the job last eight years--the
niggers worked too fast. They accomplished it in about four years.

"After working on the canal, I left there and helped dig the foundations of Sibley Mill. The
raceway, the water that run from canal to river, I helped dig that. Then after that, I went
to Mr. Berckmans and worked for him for fifty years. All my children were raised on his place.
That's how come my boy do garden work now. I worked for 50¢ a day, but he give me a house on
the place. He 'lowed me to have chickens, a little fence, and a garden. He was very good to
us. That was Mr. P.J. Berckmans. I potted plants all day long. I used to work at night. I wouldn't
draw no money, just let them keep it for me. After they found out I could read and write and
was an honest fellow, they let me take my work home, and my children helped me make the apple
grass and plum grass, and mulberry grass. A man come and told me he would give me $60 a month
if I would go with him, but I didn't I couldn't see hardly at all then--I was wearing glasses.
Now, in my 84th year, I can read the newspaper, Bible and everything without glasses. My wife
died two years ago." (Tears came into Eugene's eyes, and his face broke up) "We lived together
62 years!"

Asked if his wife had been a slave, Eugene answered that she was but a painful effort of memory
did not reveal her owner's name.

"I do remember she told me she had a hard time," he went on slowly. "Her master and misses
called themselves 'religious people' but they were not good to her. They took her about in
the barouche when they were visiting. She had to mind the children. They had a little seat
on the back, and they'd tie her up there to keep her from falling off. Once when they got to
a big gate, they told her to get down and open it for the driver to go through, not knowing
the hinges was broken. That big gate fell on her back and she was down for I don't know how
long. Before she died, she complained of a pain in her back, and the doctor said it must have
been from a lick when she was a child.

"During the war there were some Southern soldiers went through. I and two friends of mine were
together. Those soldiers caught us and made us put our hands down at our knees, and tied 'em,
and run the stick through underneath.

"It was wintertime. They had a big fire. They pushed us nearer and nearer the fire, until we
hollered. It was just devilment. They was having fun with us, kept us tied up about a half
hour. There was a mulatto boy with us, but they thought he was white, and didn't bother him.
One time they caught us and throwed us up in blankets, way up, too--I was about 11 years old then."

Asked about church, Eugene said:

"We went to bush meetings up on the Sand Hill out in the woods. They didn't have a church then."

Eugene's recollections were vivid as to the ending of the war:

"The Northern soldiers come to town playing Yankee Doodle. When freedom come, they called all
the white people to the courthouse first, and told them the darkies was free. No more masters.
You are free."

"The slaves that was freed, and the country Negroes that had been run off, or had run away
from the plantations, was staying in Augusta in Guv'ment houses, great big ole barns. They
would all get free provisions from the Freedmen's Bureau, but people like us, Augusta citizens,
didn't get free provisions, we had to work. It spoiled some of them. When the small pox come,
they died like hogs, all over Broad Street and everywhere."

WILLIS BENNEFIELD, HEPHZIBAH, GA., Born 1835.

[TR: "Uncle Willis" in individual interviews.]

"Uncle Willis" lives with his daughter Rena Berrian, who is 74 years old. "I his baby," said
Rena, "all dead but me, and I ain't no good for him now 'cause I can't tote nothin'." He belonged
to Dr. Balding Miller, who lived on Rock Creek plantation. My father driv' de cay'age and I
driv de doctor. Sometimes I was fixing to go to bed, and had to hitch up my horse and go five
or six miles. I had a regular saddle horse, two pairs for cay'age. At dat time I was a regular
dancer" Willis chuckled. "I cut de pigeon wing high enough!

"Colored preacher marry 'em. It seven miles from Waynesboro, south." Got in de crib and tuk
de corn. After de soldiers pass thoo, de went down and got it back."

"What did you do after freedom was declared?"

Willis straightened up. On Sunday morning old Marster sent de house girl and tell us to all
come to de house. He said:

"What I want to send for you all, is to tell you you are free. When Christmas come, all come
up to be paid off. Den he call me. Ask whar is me? I wus standin' roun' de corner of de house.
'Come up here,' he say, 'you didn't sign dat paper, but I reckon I have to pay you too.' He
paid me and my wife $180.000. It was on account of my wife. De chillun had disagreement. Mistis
slap my girl. My wife sass de Mistis. Well, I went on off. I got de wagon and come by de house.
He say: 'I see you is. Got along all right. De moon was shining bright as day. I saw somethin'
coming out of dat graveyard. It come across de road, right befo' me. His tail were dragging
on de ground, a long tail. I pull him dat way, he move too. I yell out: 'What in de name o'
God is dat?' And it turn right straight 'round de graveyard and went back. I went on to de
lady's store, and done my shoppin'. His weak appearance indicated lack of food. De people wuz
all afraid."

"Had you hear of airplanes before you saw one, Uncle Willis?"

"Yes, ma'am. I don't ax no better time."

His farewell words were:

"Goo'bye. I hopes you all gits to Paradise." Nobody could live in this house I don't care how
they tried. It said, 'follow me. So they done that and the sperit let 'em pass. If a hant laked
whisky in they lifetime, and you pour it round where they's at, they will go away."

The following aroma [HW: is a] few facts as related by Mrs. Heard concerning an old conjure
doctor known as Aunt Barkas [TR: Darkas throughout rest of story]. She said she had ter pick
'em for sun-up; I don't know why. Well, they had a young baby that tuck sick and died so they
had the baby's funeral there in Macon; then they put the coffin in the box, placed the label
on the box, then brought it ter Atlanta. Folkes are always buried so that they head faces the
east. They say when Judgment Day come and Gabriel blow that trumpet everybody will rise up
facing the east. Well, as I wuz saying, they came here. 'I am not blaming you, Mr. Heard, but
if I pay you will you take my baby up?' Yesmam, I will if you want me to; jest let me know
the day you will be here and I'll have everything ready. Alright, said she. A week later the
'omen called up again. 'Mr. Heard,' she says. Yesmam, says he. Finally she said; "I kin tell
you more bout conjure; that's all I know bout cause I done been hurted myself and every word
of it is the trufe.

"Well, it happen lak this. I wuz suffering with rheumatism in my arm and a old man in the neighborhood
came ter me and gave me some medicine that he said would help me. Well, I done suffered so
I thought mebbe it might help me a little. Chile honey, 'after I done tuck some of that stuff
I nearly went crazy. I couldn't talk; couldn't hardly move and my head look lak it bust open.
I didn't know what ter do. I called medical doctors and they jest didn't do me no good. Let
me tell you right here, when you done been conjured, medical doctors can't do you no good;
you got ter get a nudder conjur doctor ter get it off you. Well, one day I says to my daughter,
"I'm through wid medical doctors. I'm gwine ter Sam Durham. They say he is good and I go find
out. Chile, folks done give me up ter die. I use ter lay in bed and hear 'em say, she won't
never get up. Well, I went ter Sam Durham and he looked at me and said: 'You is hurt in the
mouth.' He carried me in a small room, put some medicine around my face, and told me ter sit
down a while. After while my mouth and face begin ter feel lak it wuz paralyzed, and he begin
ter talk. 'That man that give you that medicine is mad wid you about his wife and he fixed
you. Now do what I tell you and you will overcome it. He is coming ter your door and is gwine
want ter shake your hand. Don't let him touch you, but speak ter him in the name of the Lord
and throw your hands over your head; by doing this you will overcome him and the devil.' Anudder
thing he says; 'This man is coming from around the back of your house.' Then he give me 5 vials
of different lengths and a half cup of pills, and told me ter take all that medicine. He told
me too ter get a rooster and let him stay on my porch all the time and he couldn't get ter
me no more. Sho nuff, that nigger come jest lak he said he wuz going ter do, but I fixed him.
Later on this same man tried ter fix his wife cause he thought she had anudder man. Do you
know that oman couldn't drink water in her house? and when he died he wuz nearly crazy; they
had ter strap him in the bed; all the while he wuz cussin God and raving."

The next stories were told to the writer by Mr. Jasper Millegan:

"My uncle wuz poisoned. Yes, sir, somebody fixed him in coffee. He lingered and lingered and
finally got so he wuz confined ter bed fer good. Somebody put scorpions in him and whenever
they would crawl under his skin he would nearly go crazy, and it looked lak his eyes would
jest pop out. He waited so long ter go ter the conjure doctors they couldn't do him any good.
And the medical doctors ain't no good fer nothing lak that. Yes, sir, them snakes would start
in his feet and run up his leg. He nebber did get any better and he died.

"A long time ago I saw a lady that wuz conjured in her feet; somebody put something down fer
her ter walk over. Well, anyway she got down with her feet and couldn't travel from her bed
ter a chair. Well, she got a old conjure doctor ter come treat her and he rubbed her feet with
medicine and after he done that a while he told her that something wuz coming out of her feet.
Sho nuff, I see'd them maggots with my own eyes when they come out of her feet; but she got well."

The following are preventatives to use against conjure; also a few home treatments for different
sickness.

"Ter keep from being conjured, always use plenty salt and pepper. Always get up soon in the
morning so nobody can see you and sprinkle salt and pepper around your door and they sho can't
git at you.

"If you think you done been poisoned or conjured, take a bitter gourd and remove the seeds,
then beat 'em up and make a tea. You sho will heave all of it up.

"Ef you think you will have a stroke, go to running water and get four flint rocks; heat 'em
and lay on all of them, and believe me, it will start your blood circulating and prevent the
stroke. Another way to start your blood circulating; heat a brick and (lay) lie on it.

"To get rid of corns, bathe your feet in salt water and take a little salt and put it 'tween
your toes."

Mrs. Millegan closed her interview by telling the writer that every morning found her sprinkling
her salt and pepper, cause she knows what it means ter be fixed. As the writer started out
the door she noticed a horse shoe hanging over the door.

FOLKLORE (Negro) Minnie B. Ross

[MRS. CAMILLA JACKSON]

On November 24, 1936 Mrs. Camilla Jackson was interviewed concerning superstitions, signs,
etc. Mrs. Jackson, an ex-slave, is about 80 years of age and although advanced in years she
is unusually intelligent in her speech and thoughts. The writer was well acquainted with her
having previously interviewed her concerning life as a slave.

Mrs. Jackson related to the writer the following signs and incidents:

If a tree is standing in your yard or near your house and an owl lights in it and begins to
hoot, some one in the family will die.

If, during the illness of a person, a cat comes in the room, or the house, and whines, the
person will die.

Another sure sign of death and one that has been experienced by Mrs. Jackson is as follows:
Listen child if a bird flies in your house some one is going to die. My daughter and I were
ironing one day and a bird flew in the window right over her head. She looked up and said,
"mama that bird came after me or you, but I believe it came for me." One month later my daughter
took sick with pneumonia and died.

My mother said before the Civil War ended her mistress owned an old slave woman 100 years old.
This old woman was very wicked and the old miss used to visit her cabin and read the Bible
to her. Well sir, she died and do you know the horses balked and would go every way but the
right way to the grave. They rared and kicked and would turn straight around in the road 'cause
the evil spirits were frightening them. It was a long time before they could get the body to
the grave.

Mrs. Jackson before relating the following experiences emphatically stated her belief in seeing
the dead but only believes that you can see them in a dream.

"Many a night my sister has come to me all dressed in white. I have heard her call me too;
but I have never answered. No longer than one night last week old Mr. and Mrs. Tanner came
to me in a dream. The old lady came in my room and stood over my bed. Her hair was done up
on the top of her head just like she always wore it. She was distressed and spoke about some
one being after her. Old Mr. Tanner came and led her away. They really were in my room, you
see both of them died in this house years ago."

Mrs. Jackson could not relate any stories of conjuring; but did mention the fact that she had
often heard of people wearing money around their legs to keep from being conjured. She also
spoke of people keeping a horseshoe over the door for good luck.

During slavery and since that time, if you should go out doors on a drizzling night for any
thing, before you could get back Jack O'lantern would grab you and carry you to the swamps.
If you hollowed and some one bring a torch to the door the Jack O'lantern would turn you aloose.
Another way to get rid of them is to turn your pockets wrong side out.

One day a man came here selling roots called "John the Conqueror" and sister Blakely there,
paid him 10¢ for one of the plants, but she never did plant it. He said the plant would bring
good luck.

[MRS. ANNA GRANT]

On the same day Mrs. Jackson was interviewed, Mrs. Anna Grant told the writer that if she didn't
mind she would relate to her a ghost story that was supposed to be true. In her own words the
writer gives the following story:

Onst a 'oman, her husband and two chillun wuz travelin'. This 'oman wuz a preacher and only
wanted to stop over night. Now this 'oman's husban' wuz a sinner, but she wuz a christian.
Well she saw an old empty house setting in a field but when she went ter inquire 'bout it she
wuz told that it wuz hanted and no one had ebber been able ter stay there over night. De lady
dat owned de house offered her pillows, bed clothes, sheets, etc., if she intended to stay,
and even told her that she would give her de house if she could stay there. The woman that
owned the house told her butler to go and make a fire for the family and carry the pillows,
sheets, etc. Well, they all got there the 'oman built a fire, cooked supper and fed 'em all.
Her husband and children went ter bed. The husband wanted to know why his wife wanted him to
go to bed and she wanted ter stay up. The wife didn't say nothin', just told him ter go to
bed, then she laid the Bible on the table bottom side up and kept looking behind her. The house
wuz two story and after while something came ter the top steps and said, "Can I throw down,"
she said "throw down in the name of the father, son and Holy Ghost." Two thighs and a foot
came down. Later the same voice sed, "Can I throw down," and she said, "throw down in the name
of the father, son and the Holy Ghost," and then a whole body came down. The husband woke up
when he heard the noise and ran away from the house. The ghost told the 'oman ter follow her,
and she picked up her Bible and kept on reading and went on behind the ghost. The ghost showed
her where some money was buried near a big oak tree and then vanished. The next morning the
'oman dug and found der money, but the 'oman of the house wouldn't take a penny, said she didn't
want it, sides that she gave her the house. They said this wuz a true story and der reason
dat house wus hanted wuz 'cause der family dat used to live there got killed about money. Mrs.
Grant ended by saying "Deres a horseshoe over my door right now for luck."

[MRS. EMMALINE HEARD]

Mrs. Emmaline Heard lives on Cain St. between Fort and Butler Sts. She is an ex-slave and on
a previous occasion had given the writer an interesting account of slavery as she knew it.
When the writer approached her concerning superstitious signs, ghost tales, conjure etc., Mrs.
Heard's face became lit with interest and quickly assured the writer that she believed in conjuring,
ghosts, and signs. It was not long before our interview began. Mrs. Heard, although seventy
or seventy-five years old, is very intelligent in her expression of her different thoughts.
This interview, as nearly as possible, was taken in the exact words of the person interviewed.

"If you are eating with a mouthful of food and sneeze, that sho is a true sign of death. I
know that 'cause years ago I wuz havin' breakfast with my son Wylie and one other boy and Wylie
sneezed and said "Mama I'm so sorry I jist coundn't help it the sneeze came on me so quick."
I jist sat there and looked at him and began ter wonder. Two weeks later my brother rode up
and announced my mother's death. That is one sign thats true, yes sir.

If a picture falls off the wall some one in the family will die.

If you dream about teeth, if one falls out thats another sign of death.

Another sign of death jest as sho as you live is ter dream of a person naked. I dreamed my
son was naked but his body was covered with hair. Three months later he died. Yes sir, that
sho is a true sign.

Jest as sho as your left hand itches you will receive money. If fire pops on you from the stove,
or fire place, you will get a letter.

If the left side of your nose itches a man is coming to the house. If it itches on the tip,
he will come riding.

If the right side of your nose itches a woman is coming to the house.

Following are stories told to Mrs. Heard by her parents, which took place during the period
of slavery. They are supposed to be true as they were experienced by the persons who told them.

"My mother told me a story that happened when she was a slave. When her mistress whipped her
she would run away ter the woods; but at night she would sneak back to nurse her babies. The
plantation was on old McDonough road, so ter get ter the plantation she had ter come by a cemetery
and you could see the white stones shining in the moonlight. This cemetery was near a cut in
the road that people said was hanted and they still say old McDonough road is hanted. One night,
mama said she was on her way to the plantation walking on the middle of the road and the moon
was shining very bright. When she reached this cut she heard a noise, Clack! Clack! Clack!,
and this noise reminded a person of a lot of machines moving. All at once a big thing as large
as a house came down the side of the road. She said it looked like a lot of chains, wheels,
posts all mangled together, and it seemed that there were more wheels and chains than anything
else. It kept on by making that noise, clack! clack! clack!. She stood right still till it
passed and came on ter the farm. On her way back she say she didn't see it any more, but right
till ter day that spot is hanted. I have knowed horses to run away right there with people
and hurt them. Then sometimes they have rared and kicked and turned to go in the other direction.
You see, horses can see hants sometimes when folks can't. Now the reason fer this cut being
hanted was because old Dave Copeland used to whip his slaves to death and bury them along there."

The next story was told to Mrs. Heard by her father, who experienced it, as a slave boy.

"My father sed when he wuz a boy him and two more boys run away from the master 'cause the
master whipped 'em. They set out and walked till it got dark, and they saw a big old empty
house settin' back from der road. Now this house was 3 or 4 miles from any other house. So
they went in and made a fire, and laid down 'cause they wuz tired from running from the Pader
rollers. Soon they heard something say tap! tap! tap!, down the stairs it came, a loud noise
and then "Oh Lordy Master, I aint goin' do it no more; let me off this time." After a while
they heard this same noise like a house falling in and the same words "Oh Lordy Master, I ant
goin' do it no more. Let me off this time." By this time they had got good and scared, so my
pa sed he and his friends looked at each other and got up and ran away from that house jest
as fast as they could go. Nobody knowed why this old house wuz hanted; but they believed that
some slaves had been killed in it."

The next is a story of the Jack O'lantern as told by Mrs. Heard.

"Old South River on' the Jonesboro road is jest full of swampy land and on a rainy drizzly
night Jack O'lanterns will lead you. One night my uncle started out ter see his girl end he
had ter go through the woods and the swamps. When he got in der swamp land he had ter cross
a branch and the night wuz dark and drizzly, so dark you could hardly see your hand before
your face. Way up the creek he saw a little bright light, so he followed it thinking he wuz
on his way. All night long he sed he followed this light up and down the swamp, but never got
near ter it. When day came he was still in the creek and had not gone any distance at all.
He went home and told the folks and they went back ter the swamps and saw his tracks up and
down in the mud. Later a group of 'em set out to find the Jack O'lantern and way down the creek
they found it on a bush. It looked like soot hanging down from a bush, burnt out. My uncle
went ter bed 'cause he wuz sleepy and tired down from walking all night."

The following three stories related by Mrs. Heard deals with practices of conjure. She definitely
states that they are true stories; and backs up this statement by saying she is a firm believer
in conjure.

"As I told you before, my daddy came from Virginia. He wuz bought there by Old Harper and brought
ter McDonough as a slave boy. Well as the speculator drove along south, he learned who the
different slaves were. When he got here he wuz told by the master to live with old uncle Ned
'cause he wuz the only bachelor on the plantation. The master said ter old Ned, "Well Ned,
I have bought me a fine young plow boy. I want him ter stay with you and you treat him right."
Every night uncle Ned would make a pallet on the floor for daddy and make him go to bed. When
he got in bed he (uncle Ned) would watch him out of the corner of his eye, but daddy would
pretend he wuz asleep and watch old uncle Ned to see what he wuz going ter do. After a while
uncle Ned would take a broom and sweep the fireplace clean, then he would get a basket and
take out of it a whole lot of little bundles wrapped in white cloth. As he lay out a package
he would say "grass hoppers," "spiders", "scorpian," "snake heads", etc., then he, would take
the tongs and turn 'em around before the blaze so that they would parch. Night after night
he would do this same thing until they had parched enough, then he would beat all of it together
and make a powder; then put it up in little bags. My daddy wuz afraid ter ask old uncle Ned
what he did with these bags, but heard he conjured folks with 'em. In fact he did conjure a
gal 'cause she wouldn't pay him any attention. This gal wuz very young and preferred talking
to the younger men, but uncle Ned always tried ter hang around her and help hoe, but she would
always tell him to go do his own work 'cause she could do hers. One day he said ter her "All
right madam, I'll see you later, you wont notice me now but you'll wish you had. When the dinner
came, and they left the field they left their hoes standing so they would know jest where ter
start when they got back. When that gal went back ter the field the minute she touched that
hoe she fell dead. Some folks say they saw uncle Ned dressing that hoe with conjure.

"My sister Lizzie sho did get fixed, honey, and it took a old conjurer ter get the spell off
of her. It wuz like this: Sister Lizzie had a pretty peachtree and one limb spreaded out over
the walk and jest as soon as she would walk under this limb, she would stay sick all the time.
The funny part 'bout it wuz that while she wuz at other folks house she would feel all right,
but the minute she passed under this limb, she would begin ter feel bad. One day she sent fer
a conjurer, and he looked under the house, and sho nuff, he found it stuck in the sill. It
looked like a bundle of rags, red flannel all stuck up with needles and every thing else. This
old conjurer told her that the tree had been dressed for her an t'would be best fer her ter
cut it down. It wuz a pretty tree and she sho did hate to cut it down, but she did like he
told her. Yes child, I don't know whither I've ever been conjured or not, but sometimes my
head hurts and I wonder."

Mrs. Heard asked the writer to return at a later date and she would probably be able to relate
more interesting incidents.

FOLKLORE (Negro) Edwin Driscoll

[MRS. JULIA RUSH, MR. GEORGE LEONARD, MR. HENRY HOLMES, MR. ELLIS STRICKLAND, MR. SAM STEVENS,
JOE (a boy)]

The Negro folklore as recounted below was secured from the following persons: Mrs. Julia Rush
(an ex-slave) who lives at 878 Coleman Street, S.W.; Mr. George Leonard (a very intelligent
elderly person) whose address is 148 Chestnut Avenue N.E.; and Mr. Henry Holmes (an ex-slave);
Mr. Ellis Strickland; Mr. Sam Stevens and a young boy known only as Joe. The latter named people
can be found at the address of 257 Old Wheat Street, N.E. According to these people this lore
represents the sort of thing that their parents and grandparents believed in and at various
times they have been heard to tell about these beliefs.

VOODOO AND CONJURE

Mr. Leonard says: "In dem days de old folks b'lieved in witch-craft and conjure and sicha stuff
like dat. Dey b'lieved dat an old person could punish anybody by taking a piece of chip and
spitting on it and den dey would throw it on 'em. Dey said dat in two weeks time maggots would
be in 'em."

"I have seen 'em take a black cat an' put 'im in a sack an' den dey took 'im an' put 'im in
a pot of boiling hot water alive. Man de cat would almos' tear dat pot up tryin' to git out.
After dey had cooked all de meat off de cat dey took one of his bones (I don't know which one
of 'em) and put it crossways in their front teeth while dey mumbled somethin' under their breath
an' den dey took dis bone an' throwed it 'cross de right shoulder an' when dey went an' picked
it up an' put it in their pocket it was supposed to give 'em de bes' kind of luck. Dey could
say or do anything dey wanted to an' ole marster couldn't hit 'em."

Regarding the Black cat's bone Mr. Strickland told the following story which he says he once
heard an old man tell his father:

