"And be it enacted, that in all cases of marriage contracted in Scotland from and after the
last day of December one thousand eight hundred and forty-seven, the persons contracting such
marriage, at the time of the contraction thereof, or within two months thereafter, shall sign
along with two witnesses, in the presence of the registrar, the entry of such marriage in the
register-book to be kept by the registrar, and the registrar shall make such entry according
to the form of Schedule (C.) hereunto annexed; and if the person so contracting marriage, together
with two witnesses as aforesaid, shall, within ten days thereafter, attend upon the registrar
for the purpose of signing the entry in the register, the registrar shall for such entry be
entitled to a fee of five shillings; and if such persons shall so attend after ten days and
within two months of contracting the marriage, the registrar shall be entitled to a fee of
ten shillings, or it shall be competent to the persons so contracting marriage to require the
registrar of the subdistrict within which such marriage has been contracted to attend at the
contraction, or within two months thereafter, at any place within such subdistrict; and such
registrar is hereby required, upon a written notice of forty-eight hours given to him to that
effect, to attend with the register-book accordingly, and to make the proper entry therein,
and for such attendance and entry, if at the contraction or within ten days of the contraction
of such marriage, the registrar shall be entitled to a fee of one guinea, besides the sum of
sixpence for each mile which such registrar shall be obliged to travel in going from his place
of abode to the place of such marriage; and if such attendance shall be required after ten
days but within two months of the contraction of such marriage, the registrar shall for such
attendance and entry be entitled to a fee of two guineas, besides the sum of sixpence for each
mile which such registrar shall be obliged to travel as aforesaid; and any person contracting
marriage and failing to register the same, and sign the entry thereof in manner herein prescribed
during the period of two months thereafter, shall be liable in a penalty of fifty pounds, and
in default of payment thereof to suffer imprisonment for one month."

We cannot help thinking that the Registration Bill, from which we have just quoted, has been
framed without any view to the purpose which its machinery is to serve under the Marriage Bill,
of not merely registering a marriage otherwise constituted, but also of actually constituting
the marriage that is to be registered. There is a gap apparently left between the two Bills,
and at least there is something that appears very blank and meagre in the provision made for
extra-ecclesiastical marriages to be contracted in the registrar's presence. We presume that
this officer is not to judge what ceremony or declaration shall constitute a marriage; if he
were to do so new difficulties would arise: but we take it for granted that if asked by the
contracting parties to register them as married persons, the registrar must immediately obey,
when the entry will of itself marry them, whether they were married or not before.

There is certainly something startling in a system of registration which does not precisely
settle the antecedent matter on which it is to act; and it is still more singular to consider
mere registration as constituting in itself the very thing that is to be registered. But it
seems to be so written in the Bill before us.

Various other observations will occur as to the imperfect structure of the two Acts thus taken
in connexion; but we pass over these minor matters to point out the characteristic principles
of this measure, and the consequences which we think it involves.

It will be seen, first, that it declares marriage to be constituted by mere registration to
all effects and purposes, so that two parties thus entered in the register, are conclusively
and irrevocably united by that simple fact. Second, that it professes no preference, and shows
no favour for ecclesiastical marriages over those constituted by simple contract or mere registration,
the old-fashioned mode of solemnising, them by a clergyman being merely saved from abolition,
but shorn of all its privileges, and left, as it were, to die out in due time. Third, that
in registration marriages, no proclamation of banns is required, and no notice of any kind
is given to the public, nor any interval for deliberation forced upon the parties. Fourth,
that no locality is assigned within which the parties may thus marry by registration, it being
competent apparently to carry out the arrangement in any district however distant from their
ordinary abode, by requiring, in a somewhat Irish fashion, "the registrar of the subdistrict
within which such marriage HAS BEEN contracted to attend at the contraction."

Now we think it can require little argument to show that a system of this kind, introduced
as the basis of the marriage law of the land, is, as has been predicted, much more likely to
prove a bane than a blessing. Marriage is undoubtedly a civil contract, but in all enlightened
Christian countries it has been looked upon as a solemn engagement, over which the church ought
to preside, in order duly to impress the contracting parties with the religious origin from
which it sprung, with the religious duties which it involves, and with the religious sanctions
by which those duties are guarded. Considered as the foundation of society itself, as the source
of all pure and kindly affections, as the introduction to the parental as well as to the conjugal
relation, it is impossible that it can be lightly treated or hurried over as a matter of mere
routine or ordinary business, without lowering its character, and weakening its obligations,
and relaxing generally the moral tone of the community.

That under such a system, also, facilities must be given for the hasty contraction of imprudent
or improper marriages, is too obvious to be pointed out. A transient resolution, a half frolic,
a moment's submission to undue influence, may at once and for ever create the status of matrimony
by the simple act of registration, from which there is to be no room for repentance or escape.

But we shall be told that these evils are not introduced for the first time by the present
Bill, but already exist in their full extent under the common law. If this were the case, it
would be a serious objection to the Bill, that while it professed to amend the law, it left
such evils untouched. But on further examination, it will be found that the mischievous consequences
to which we have alluded are wholly or almost wholly unknown under the law as now existing,
and will either be called into operation by the present Bill, if it should pass into an Act,
or will be fearfully aggravated by such a measure.

In the first instance, it must be observed that the law as it stands gives no countenance and
no facility to extra-ecclesiastical marriages. It tolerates but it does not give the sanction
of its approval to them. On the contrary, it considers them to be irregular and contrary to
good order, and it provides punishment for those who celebrate or engage in them. The present
act places them on an entirely new footing. It makes them part and parcel of the statute law.
It provides a machinery and pays an officer, according to a settled and moderate tariff, for
actually carrying through those summary connexions hitherto deemed irregular, but which can
now be deemed irregular no longer. This change of itself involves a serious danger.

Whatever is left to depend on consuetudinary law, will derive its character from the feelings
of the people, among whom the law has been formed and preserved. The one custom, in its growth
and progress, is checked and qualified by others of an opposite and counteracting tendency.
As matters now stand in Scotland, marriages celebrated without the presence of a clergyman,
or without the proclamation of banns, though held to be valid, are denounced as irregular and
improper. All the feelings of the people are against them. No one, with any remains of decent
pride, or a sense of propriety, would contract marriage in that way; and such a step would
infer a loss of social position and respectability, even in the humblest ranks of life.

But, how long would this feeling last under the new bill? Could we rely on its continuance
in reference to marriages, which can no longer be called contraband or clandestine, which are
recognised and regulated by an Act of Parliament, as being on an equal footing with marriages
in facie ecclesiæ, and which are henceforward to be performed by a statutory officer, intrusted
with important and honourable duties? Are we sure that a change in this respect would not soon
come over all but the very best among us; and at least that many thoughtless, and rash, and
presumptuous persons, might not give to the registrar's book a position somewhat approaching
to the clergyman's benediction? The statute is a clear and intelligible warrant for such a
feeling, and may be cited as lending a stamp and currency to unclerical marriages, which they
do not possess at present, but which it would afterwards be difficult to deny them.

If this change of opinion or practice takes place, and the framers of this bill cannot wonder
or find fault if such a result should follow, let us consider what a safeguard would in that
way be removed, and how deeply the national character might in time be deteriorated. At present,
besides other obstacles and drawbacks, to be immediately noticed, there exists a strong barrier
against irregular marriages in their disreputable character. The stigma that attaches to them,
both in law and in fact, deters all but the licentious from resorting to them. But let this
reluctance once be diminished, and we cannot fail to see that extra-ecclesiastical marriages
will be more frequent, particularly under the facilities afforded by this bill, and a wide
opening will be made for the admission of all the evils attending them. The bill will thus
have a double operation of a detrimental kind, first by removing the legal and moral objections
to the marriages now called irregular, and next by providing the means of easily and safely
contracting those marriages, by converting the registrar into a marrying officer, and, as has
been truly said, establishing a popular Gretna-green in every parish.

And here it is proper to remark, that by the present law, irregular marriages are subject to
other disadvantages, which operate to prevent them, but which will now be taken away. The very
uncertainty which attaches to them under the existing law, though an evil in one way, is beneficial
in another. Every apparent consent to marry, if irregularly declared out of the presence of
the church, is at present liable to inquiry and explanation. The most formal written engagement
or verbal declaration is of itself inconclusive; it being always competent to inquire, whether
it was not interchanged in jest or in error, or for some other purpose than that of constituting
marriage; and several cases have occurred where, upon evidence that there was no genuine and
serious intention to marry, such documents or declarations have been wholly disregarded. It
is obvious that the very fear of such contingencies, carries with it; some degree of good to
the morals and welfare of society. Designing persons seeking to form matrimonial connexions
for sordid purposes, cannot be sure that their plan will succeed even if they should entrap
their victim into an apparent acquiescence in it; and females possessed of any principles or
prudence, will not surrender their persons upon the faith of private contracts, which are not
only disreputable in point of character, but doubtful in point of security. Under this Bill,
however, all such difficulties would be removed. No interchange of consent, however hasty,
however ill considered, however improperly obtained, could ever be got the better of when once
it was registered. A half-tipsy lad and a giddy lass, passing the registrar's house, after
a fair, may be irrevocably buckled in three minutes, though they should change their minds
before they are well out of the door. A fortune-hunter has only to prevail on a silly girl,
who has a few thousand pounds, to walk with him to the office, and there, with two of his associates,
make her sign her name in a book, and his purpose is fully and effectually accomplished; while
the lady's maid of the family will find it as easy, on the other side, to make a match with
her master's son, at any favourable moment that offers.

We do not pretend to know what sort of man the registrar is to be. But his office does not
require him to be either a minister or a magistrate. It is not, therefore, necessary that he
should offer any advice or remonstrance as to the necessity of due deliberation, or the consent
of friends, in entering into the holy state of matrimony. And, indeed, such interference would
be an impertinence and a breach of duty. We presume, at the same time, that, as he must be
a mortal man, and is to be paid by fees, he will have no objection to encourage every thing
that brings grist to the mill. He is not likely to grudge being knocked up at night when a
gratuity is to be the result. And thus we conclude that all observance of canonical hours will
be dispensed with; and that the great work of matrimonial registration will be practicable
at any period of the civil day.

If we were to indulge in the ludicrous on such a subject, we should only have to imagine a
marriage bazaar of this kind, opened at a watering-place or at the sea-side, where young ladies
might be attended or waylaid by amorous exiles of Erin, watching the mollia tempora to wile
the confiding fair one from the library to the pastry-cook's, and from the pastry-cook's to
the registrar's shop, or else taking shelter within the statutory office during a shower of
rain, or arranging to meet at that happy rendezvous after the concert or ball. Or take the
converse case, of gawky country lads, hooked in by knowing widows or other female adventurers,
and the chain riveted in an unguarded moment, before their unhappy parents, or even the witless
victims themselves, had dreamed that it was forging. But even this kind of publicity is not
necessary. As far as we see, the registrar may, at any hour, be summoned to attend at the most
private spot of his district, and there be compelled to witness and legalise the most monstrous
match that could be imagined, or the most infamous advantage that duplicity ever gained over
simple folly or unsuspecting inexperience.

Who can doubt that scenes of this kind are not unlikely to occur under such a change of the
law? When the restraints of moral customs and habits have been broken through by the interference
of the legislature; and when an invitation is thus held out, and a mechanism provided for precipitate
marriages, who can calculate the infinite evils that will ensue? The obvious fruits of such
a system will be conjugal unhappiness and consequent infidelity, the neglect of children, and
the weakening of all domestic affections. The worst mischiefs to the personal and social character
of a people have always sprung from a disregard of the serious and solemn nature of the marriage
tie; and the least risk of such laxity is to be deprecated.

    "Foecunda culpæ sæcula nuptias
    Primum inquinavere, et genus et domos;
      Hoc fonte derivata clades
      In patriam populumque fluxit."

In the discussion on this subject out of doors, reference has been made, to the English registration
act. It is not necessary for us to pronounce an opinion on the merits of that measure. But
we will merely say that its character and provisions are essentially different from those of
the Scotch Bill we have been considering.

The English marriage act, which introduced a system of registration, is the 6 & 7 William IV.,
c. 85. It is at least a well-digested and well-developed measure, complete in itself, and laying
down the grounds on which it proceeds, and the precise mode of its operation. It was introduced
as a concession of religious toleration, being intended to relieve the scruples of Dissenters,
who objected to being married according to the ritual of the Church of England. In that light
the present bill is wholly unnecessary. The fullest religious freedom already exists in Scotland;
the celebration of marriage by a clergyman of any denomination, after proclamation of banns,
being equally valid and regular as when the ceremony is performed by a minister of the Establishment.
But the English registration act, so far from throwing ecclesiastical marriages into the shade,
shows a studied anxiety to promote and encourage them, and contains numerous provisions directed
to that object, as well as intended to give publicity and deliberation to the matrimonial contract
to be entered into. It further provides a system by which the scruples of Dissenters are saved
without destroying the religious character of the contract, by allowing sectarian places of
worship to be registered for the purpose of solemnising marriage therein. It is only after
all these provisions, and in order expressly to meet further religious scruples, that a marriage
before the registering officer is sanctioned. But in this case also, the statutory period of
public premonition is required, as well as the observance of the other precautions against
precipitate and clandestine marriages. The clause on this subject is as follows:--

"And be it enacted, that any persons who shall object to marry under the provisions of this
Act, in any such registered building, may, after due notice and certificate issued as aforesaid,
contract and solemnise marriage at the office and in the presence of the superintendent registrar,
and some registrar of the district, and in the presence of two witnesses, with open doors,
and between the hours aforesaid, making the declaration, and using the form of words herein
before provided in the case of marriage, in any such registered building."

A statute of this kind was not likely to undermine the public feeling in favour of the religious
celebration of marriage; and we believe that it has not done so. But the Bill now proposed
for Scotland is framed on a very different principle, and would in all probability involve
very different results.

But indeed it is needless here to refer to the law of England, which in one essential respect
is so widely distinguished from that of our own country. The restraints that, on the other
side of the Tweed, have been provided against the marriage of minors without the consent of
their parents and guardians, have no existence with us, and the merits of the Bill under consideration
must be estimated in reference to that most material fact.

