There is one other point, but it is rather a delicate matter: Messrs. Mump and Gump say to
the prospective Candidate, "Your constituents must see and know you before you can hope for
their vote." Are they quite right? I have seen a good many Candidates in my time, and I can
think of some to whom I should have said, "Your constituents must never see you if you hope
for a single vote." I mean, when one looks round the present House of Commons, one really marvels
how.... But perhaps I had better not go on with that. The point is that a Candidate of that
kind never need be seen by his constituents now. A handsome young private secretary, uniformed
and beribboned, and the film does the rest.

Then I rather resent the assumption that Members of Parliament, Mayors, Lecturers and Actors
are the only people who require publicity. I should have thought that those who spend their
time writing things in the public Press, which are read by the public (if anybody), might have
had at least the courtesy title of Public Man. Anyhow, I am going to have three guineas' worth.
The only question is, what sort of picture will most thoroughly "get" my personality before
a third of the population once a week? The moment when I am most characteristic is when I am
lying in a hot bath, and to-morrow is Sunday; but I doubt if even a sixth of the population
would be really keen on that. I don't mind writing a letter or two, only, if it meant an extra
reel every time I decided to write it to-morrow instead, it would be rather a costly advertisement.

Really, I suppose, one ought to be done At Work in His Study; but even that would require a
good deal of faking. Ought one, for instance, to remove the golf-balls and the cocoa-cup (and
the rhyming dictionary) from The Desk? Then I always write with a decayed pencil, and that
would look so bad. Messrs. Mump and Gump would have to throw in a quill-pen. And I have no
Study. I work in the drawingroom, when the children are not playing in it. To go into The Study
I simply walk over to my table and put up a large notice: "THE STUDY. DO NOT SPEAK TO ME. I
AM THINKING." Do you think that had better be in the film?

Or I wonder if a Comic would be more effective--a Shaving reel or a Dressing reel? It is the
small incidents of every-day life that one should look to for the key to the character of a
Public Man; and once a whole third of the population had seen for themselves what pain it gives
me to put links and studs and all those things in a clean shirt, they would understand the
strange note of melancholy which runs through this article.

But of course an author should have several different reels corresponding to the different
kinds of work which he wants to publicitise. (That is a new word which I have just invented,
but you will find it in common use in a month or two.) People like Mr. BELLOC will probably
require the full politician's ration of twenty or more, but the ordinary writer might rub along
with four or five.

When his Pug, Wog and Pussy is on the market there will be a Family reel, in which he is pretending
to be a tree and the children are climbing it. And when he has just published The Cruise of
the Cow; or, Seven Hours at Sea, he will be seen with an intense expression tying a bowline
on a bight or madly hauling on the throat-halyard--at Messrs. Mump and Gump's specially-equipped
ponds. And for his passionate romance, The Borrowed Bride---- But I don't know what he will
do then.

And even now we have not exhausted the list of Public Men. There are clergymen. Don't you feel
that some of those sermons might be thrown on the screen--and left there? A. P. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Merry Bishop.

    The Dean of CAPE TOWN with a critical frown
      To the jests of St. Albans' gay Bishop demurs;
    But the Bishop denies the offence and implies
      'Tis the way of all asses to nibble at FURSE.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Harvest Festival celebrations took place at St. John's Church on
    Sunday evening, when the choir rendered the anthem 'Praise the young
    ladies of the choir.'"--Yorkshire Paper.

And we have no doubt they deserved it.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

How you regard Miss MAY SINCLAIR'S latest story, The Romantic (COLLINS), will entirely depend
upon your attitude towards the long-vexed question of the permissible in art. If you hold that
all life (which in this association generally means something disagreeable) is its legitimate
province and that genius can transmute an ugly study of morbid pathology into a romance, you
will admire the force of this vivid little book; otherwise, I warn you frankly, you are like
to be repelled by the whole business. The title, to begin with, is an irony as grim as anything
that follows, in what sense you will find as the story reveals itself. The Romantic is a picture--what
do I say? a vivisection--of cowardice, seen through the horrified eyes of a woman who loved
the subject of it. The scene is the Belgian battlefields, to which John Conway, being unfitted
for active service, had taken out a motor-ambulance, with Charlotte Redhead as one of his drivers.
All the background of this part of the tale is wonderfully realised, a thing of actual and
unforgetable experience. Here gradually the first tragedy of Conway is made clear, though shielded
and ignored as long as possible by the loyalty of fellow-workers and the obstinate disbelief
of the girl. Perhaps you think I am making too much of it all; treacherous nerves were the
lot of many spiritually noble men in that hell. But little by little conviction of a deeper,
less understandable, horror creeps upon the reader, only to be explained and confirmed on the
last page. To be honest, The Romantic is an ugly, a detestably ugly book, but of its cleverness
there can be no question.

       *       *       *       *       *

It would appear that Mr. A. E. W. MASON is another of those who hold that the day of war-novels
is not yet done. Anyhow, The Summons (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) shows him dealing out all the old
familiar cards, spies and counter-spies, submarines and petrol bases and secret ink. It must
be admitted that the result is unexpectedly archaic. Perhaps also Mr. MASON hardly gives himself
a fair chance. The "summons" to his hero (who, being familiar with the Spanish coast, is required
when War breaks out to use this knowledge for submarine-thwarting) is too long delayed, and
all the non-active service part of the tale suffers from a very dull love-interest and some
even more dreary racing humour. Archaic or not, however, Hillyard's anti-spy adventures, in
an exquisite setting that the author evidently knows as well as his hero, are good fun enough.
But the home scenes had (for me at least) a lack of grip and conviction by no means to be looked
for from a writer of Mr. MASON'S experience. His big thrill, the suicide of the lady who first
sends by car to the local paper the story of her end and then waits to confirm this by telephone
before making it true, left me incredulous. I'm afraid The Summons can hardly be said to have
found Mr. MASON in his customary form.

       *       *       *       *       *

