The next morning, when Philip knew that Guy would be with his tutor, he walked to Hollywell,
came straight up to his aunt's dressing-room, asked her to send Charlotte down to practise,
and, seating himself opposite to her, began--

'What do you mean to do about this unfortunate rencontre?'

'Do you mean Guy and his uncle? He is very much pleased, poor boy! I like his entire freedom
from false shame.'

'A little true shame would be hardly misplaced about such a connection.'

'It is not his fault, and I hope it will not be his misfortune,' said Mrs. Edmonstone.

'That it will certainly be,' replied Philip, 'if we are not on our guard; and, indeed, if we
are, there is little to be done with one so wilful. I might as well have interfered with the
course of a whirlwind.'

'No, no, Philip; he is too candid to be wilful.'

'I cannot be of your opinion, when I have seen him rushing into this acquaintance in spite
of the warnings he must have had here--to say nothing of myself.'

'Nay, there I must defend him, though you will think me very unwise; I could not feel that
I ought to withhold him from taking some notice of so near a relation.'

Philip did think her so unwise, that he could only reply, gravely--

'We must hope it may produce no evil effects.'

'How?' she exclaimed, much alarmed. 'Have you heard anything against him?'

'You remember, of course, that Guy's father was regularly the victim of this Dixon.'

'Yes, yes; but he has had enough to sober him. Do you know nothing more?' said Mrs. Edmonstone,
growing nervously anxious lest she had been doing wrong in her husband's absence.

'I have been inquiring about him from old Redford, and I should judge him to be a most dangerous
companion; as, indeed, I could have told from his whole air, which is completely that of a roué.'

'You have seen him, then?'

'Yes. He paid me the compliment of taking me for Sir Guy, and of course made off in dismay
when he discovered on whom he had fallen. I have seldom seen a less creditable-looking individual.'

'But what did Mr. Redford say? Did he know of the connection?'

'No; I am happy to say he did not. The fellow has decency enough not to boast of that. Well,
Redford did not know much of him personally: he said he had once been much thought of, and
had considerable talent and execution, but taste changes, or he has lost something, so that,
though he stands tolerably high in his profession, he is not a leader. So much for his musical
reputation. As to his character, he is one of those people who are called no one's enemy but
their own, exactly the introduction Guy has hitherto happily wanted to every sort of mischief.'

'I think,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, trying to console herself, 'that Guy is too much afraid of
small faults to be invited by larger evils. While he punishes himself for an idle word, he
is not likely to go wrong in greater matters.'

'Not at present.'

'Is the man in debt or difficulties? Guy heard nothing of that, and I thought it a good sign.'

'I don't suppose he is. He ought not, for he has a fixed salary, besides what he gets by playing
at concerts when it is not the London season. The wasting money on a spendthrift relation would
be a far less evil than what I apprehend.'

'I wish I knew what to do! It is very unlucky that your uncle is from home.'

'Very.'

Mrs. Edmonstone was frightened by the sense of responsibility, and was only anxious to catch
hold of something to direct her.

'What would you have me do?' she asked, hopelessly.

'Speak seriously to Guy. He must attend to you: he cannot fly out with a woman as he does with
me. Show him the evils that must result from such an intimacy. If Dixon was in distress, I
would not say a word, for he would be bound to assist him but as it is, the acquaintance can
serve no purpose but degrading Guy, and showing him the way to evil. Above all, make a point
of his giving up visiting him in London. That is the sure road to evil. A youth of his age,
under the conduct of a worn-out roué, connected with the theatres! I can hardly imagine anything
more mischievous.'

'Yes, yes; I will speak to him,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, perfectly appalled.

She promised, but she found the fulfilment difficult, in her dislike of vexing Guy, her fear
of saying what was wrong, and a doubt whether the appearance of persecuting Mr. Dixon was not
the very way to prevent Guy's own good sense from finding out his true character, so she waited,
hoping Mr. Edmonstone might return before Guy went to Oxford, or that he might write decisively.

Mrs. Edmonstone might have known her husband better than to expect him to write decisively
when he had neither herself nor Philip at his elbow. The same post had brought him a letter
from Guy, mentioning his meeting with his uncle, and frankly explaining his plans for London;
another from Philip, calling on him to use all his authority to prevent this intercourse, and
a third from his wife. Bewildered between them, he took them to his sister, who, being as puzzle-headed
as himself, and only hearing his involved history of the affair, confused him still more; so
he wrote to Philip, saying he was sorry the fellow had turned up, but he would guard against
him. He told Guy he was sorry to say that his uncle used to be a sad scamp, and he must take
care, or it would be his poor father's story over again; and to Mrs. Edmonstone he wrote that
it was very odd that everything always did go wrong when he was away.

He thought these letters a great achievement, but his wife's perplexity was not materially
relieved.

After considering a good while, she at length spoke to Guy; but it was not at a happy time,
for Philip, despairing of her, had just taken on himself to remonstrate, and had angered him
to the verge of an outbreak.

Mrs. Edmonstone, as mildly as she could, urged on him that such intercourse could bring him
little satisfaction, and might be very inconvenient; that his uncle was in no distress, and
did not require assistance; and that it was too probable that in seeking him out he might meet
with persons who might unsettle his principles,--in short, that he had much better give up
the visit to London.

'This is Philip's advice,' said Guy.

'It is; but--'

Guy looked impatient, and she paused.

'You must forgive me,' he said, 'if I follow my own judgment. If Mr. Edmonstone chose to lay
his commands on me, I suppose I must submit; but I cannot see that I am bound to obey Philip.'

'Not to obey, certainly; but his advice--'

'He is prejudiced and unjust,' said Guy.

'I don't believe that my uncle would attempt to lead me into bad company; and surely you would
not have me neglect or look coldly on one who was so much attached to my parents. If he is
not a gentleman, and is looked down on by the world, it is not for his sister's son to make
him conscious of it.'

'I like your feelings, Guy; I can say nothing against it, but that I am much afraid your uncle
is not highly principled.'

'You have only Philip's account of him.'

'You are resolved?'

'Yes. I do not like not to take your advice, but I do believe this is my duty. I do not think
my determination is made in self-will,' said Guy, thoughtfully; 'I cannot think that I ought
to neglect my uncle, because I happen to have been born in a different station, which is all
I have heard proved against him,' he added, smiling. 'You will forgive me, will you not, for
not following your advice? for really and truly, if you will let me say so, I think you would
not have given it if Philip had not been talking to you.'

Mrs. Edmonstone confessed, with a smile, that perhaps it was so; but said she trusted much
to Philip's knowledge of the world. Guy agreed to this; though still declaring Philip had no
right to set him against his uncle, and there the discussion ended.

Guy went to London. Philip thought him very wilful, and his aunt very weak; and Mr. Edmonstone,
on coming home, said it could not be helped, and he wished to hear no more about the matter.

CHAPTER 12

     Her playful smile, her buoyance wild,
     Bespeak the gentle, mirthful child;
     But in her forehead's broad expanse,
     Her chastened tones, her thoughtful glance,
     Is mingled, with the child's light glee,
     The modest maiden's dignity.

One summer's day, two years after the ball and review, Mary Ross and her father were finishing
their early dinner, when she said,--

'If you don't want me this afternoon, papa, I think I shall walk to Hollywell. You know Eveleen
de Courcy is there.'

'No, I did not. What has brought her?'

'As Charles expresses it, she has over-polked herself in London, and is sent here for quiet
and country air. I want to call on her, and to ask Sir Guy to give me some idea as to the singing
the children should practise for the school-feast?'

'Then you think Sir Guy will come to the feast?'

'I reckon on him to conceal all the deficiencies in the children's singing.'

'He won't desert you, as he did Mrs. Brownlow?'

'O papa! you surely did not think him to blame in that affair?'

'Honestly, Mary, if I thought about the matter at all, I thought it a pity he should go so
much to the Brownlows.'

'I believe I could tell you the history, if you thought it worth while; and though it may be
gossip, I should like you to do justice to Sir Guy.'

'Very well; though I don't think there is much danger of my doing otherwise. I only wondered
he should become intimate there at all.'

'I believe Mrs. Edmonstone thinks it right he should see as much of the world as possible,
and not be always at home in their own set.'

'Fair and proper.'

'You know she has shown him all the people she could,--had Eveleen staying there, and the Miss
Nortons, and hunted him out to parties, when he had rather have been at home.'

'I thought he was fond of society. I remember your telling me how amused you were with his
enjoyment of his first ball.'

'Ah! he was two years younger then, and all was new. He seems to me too deep and sensitive
not to find more pain than pleasure in commonplace society. I have sometimes seen that he cannot
speak either lightly or harshly of what he disapproves, and people don't understand him. I
was once sitting next him, when there was some talking going on about an elopement; he did
not laugh, looked almost distressed, and at last said in a very low voice, to me, "I wish people
would not laugh about such things."'

'He is an extraordinary mixture of gaiety of heart, and seriousness.'

'Well, when Mrs. Brownlow had her nieces with her, and was giving those musical parties, his
voice made him valuable; and Mrs. Edmonstone told him he ought to go to them. I believe he
liked it at first, but he found there was no end to it; it took up a great deal of time, and
was a style of thing altogether that was not desirable. Mrs Edmonstone thought at first his
reluctance was only shyness and stay-at-home nonsense, that ought to be overcome; but when
she had been there, and saw how Mrs. Brownlow beset him, and the unpleasant fuss they made
about his singing, she quite came round to his mind, and was very sorry she had exposed him
to so much that was disagreeable.'

'Well, Mary, I am glad to hear your account. My impression arose from something Philip Morville
said.'

'Captain Morville never can approve of anything Sir Guy does! It is not like Charles.'

'How improved Charles Edmonstone is. He has lost that spirit of repining and sarcasm, and lives
as if he had an object.'

