"Simon de Montfort, at the very moment of his fall, set the example of an extensive reformation
in the frame of parliament, which, though his authority was not acknowledged by the punctilious
adherents to the letter and forms of law, was afterwards legally adopted by Edward, and rendered
the parliament of that year the model of the British parliament, and in a considerable degree
affected the constitution of all other representative assemblies. It may indeed be considered
as the practical discovery of popular representation. The particulars of the war are faintly
discerned at the distance of six or seven centuries. The reformation of parliament, which first
afforded proof from experience that liberty, order, greatness, power, and wealth, are capable
of being blended together in a degree of harmony which the wisest men had not before believed
to be possible, will be held in everlasting remembrance. He died unconscious of the imperishable
name which he acquired by an act which he probably considered as of very small importance--the
summoning a parliament, of which the lower house was composed, as it has ever since been formed,
of knights of the shires, and members for cities and boroughs. He thus unknowingly determined
that England was to be a free country; and he was the blind instrument of disclosing to the
world that great institution of representation which was to introduce into popular governments
a regularity and order far more perfect than had heretofore been purchased by submission to
absolute power, and to draw forth liberty from confinement in single cities to a fitness for
being spread over territories which, experience does not forbid us to hope, may be as vast
as have ever been grasped by the iron gripe of a despotic conqueror. The origin of so happy
an innovation is one of the most interesting objects of inquiry which occurs in human affairs;
but we have scarcely any positive information on the subject; for our ancient historians, though
they are not wanting in diligently recording the number and the acts of national assemblies,
describe their composition in a manner too general to be instructive, and take little note
of novelty or peculiarity in the constitution of that which was called by the Earl of Leicester.

"That assembly met at London, on the 22nd of January, 1265, according to writs still extant,
and the earliest of their kind known to us, directing 'the sheriffs to elect and return two
knights for each county, two citizens for each city, and two burgesses for every burgh in the
county.' If this assembly be supposed to be the same which is vested with the power of granting
supply by the Great Charter of John, the constitution must be thought to have undergone an
extensive, though unrecorded, revolution in the somewhat inadequate space of only fifty years,
which had elapsed since the capitulation of Runnymede; for in the Great Charter we find the
tenants of the crown in chief alone expressly mentioned as forming with the prelates and peers
the common council for purposes of taxation; and even they seem to have been required to give
their personal attendance, the important circumstances of election and representation not being
mentioned in the treaty with John;--neither does it contain any stipulation of sufficient distinctness
applicable to cities and boroughs, for which the charter provides no more than the maintenance
of their ancient liberties.

"Probably conjecture is all that can now be expected respecting the rise and progress of these
changes. It is, indeed, beyond all doubt, that by the constitution, even as subsisting under
the early Normans, the great council shared the legislative power with the king, as clearly
as the parliament have since done.[3] But these great councils do not seem to have contained
members of popular choice; and the king, who was supported by the revenue of his demesnes,
and by dues from his military tenants, does not appear at first to have imposed, by legislative
authority, general taxes to provide for the security and good government of the community.--These
were abstract notions, not prevalent in ages when the monarch was a lord paramount rather than
a supreme magistrate. Many of the feudal perquisites had been arbitrarily augmented, and oppressively
levied. These the Great Charter, in some cases, reduced to a certain sum; while it limited
the period of military service itself. With respect to scutages and aids, which were not capable
of being reduced to a fixed rate, the security adopted was, that they should never be legal,
unless they were assented to at least by the majority of those who were to pay them. Now these
were not the people at large, but the military tenants of the crown, who are accordingly the
only persons entitled to be present at the great council to be holden for taxation. Very early,
however, talliages had been exacted by the crown from those who were not military tenants;
and this imposition daily grew in importance with the relaxation of the feudal tenures, and
the increasing opulence of towns. The attempt of the barons to include talliage, and even the
vague mention of the privileges of burghs, are decisive symptoms of this silent revolution.
But the generally feudal character of the charter and the main object of its framers prevailed
over that premature, but very honest, effort of the barons."

    [3] "Legis habet vigorem, quicquid de consilio et consensu
        magnatum et reipublicæ communi sponsione, authoritate regis,
        juste fuerit definitum."--Bracton.

We recommend the reader to turn to the pages succeeding the above extract, where the views
of the enlightened author and statesman on the origin of our parliament are set forth in perspicuous
and masterly style.

       *       *       *       *       *

VISIT TO CORFE CASTLE.

The castle is situate on the summit of a vast pyramidical mound, situated abruptly in an opening
of the chalk range extending from Ballard Down to Worthbarrow in the Isle of Purbeck, county
of Dorset. The walls are extremely thick, (12 feet in some places,) and are about half a mile
in circuit. On the northern side the steepness of the ascent renders it inaccessible, and on
the south is a deep ditch, over which is a bridge of three arches commanded by a gateway, flanked
by two circular massive towers. The first ward has several towers. Passing onwards in a considerable
ascent, we reached a second bridge guarded by a gate and towers, and entered the second ward,
in which are the ruins of five towers. Winding round to the right, the explorer enters on the
third and principal ward, which stands on the summit of the hill; here were the state apartments,
store rooms, chapel, &c. built on vaults. The view from this portion of the ruin is magnificent.
A wide expanse of flat country extending to Lytchett Bay and Poole, lies immediately at your
feet. The gloomy fir trees wave in solemnity, and form in their darkness, a striking contrast
with the dwellings that are scattered over the scene, and appear like specks of dazzling white;
the estuary of Poole Harbour stretches along the distance like a mirror, and its molten silver-like
appearance is broken here and there by small islands, among which Brownsea is conspicuous.
Here we stood leaning over the northern battlement contemplating the face of a delightful country,
smiling in peace,--from the stern and rugged fastness of war.

Such were our feelings as we wandered musing and admiring amid the stupendous ruins of this
once magnificent fabric.

  "Now Time his dusky pennons o'er the scene,
  Closes in stedfast darkness."

The pomp of its splendour has passed away, and the stern wardour disputing entrance to the
belted knight is now succeeded by a lank cobbler, who watches for lounging strangers, and acts
as "Cicerone," blending the most absurd and ridiculous stories in order to eke another sixpence
from the purse of his auditor, and to add greater importance to himself; but he had a most
amusing method of answering any startling questions as to date, by significantly observing
in the purest Dorset dialect, "Why Lord love ye, zur, it wur avore the memory of ony maun in
the parish!"

Apropos to dates, the earliest mention of Corfe is A.D. 978, when the Saxon annals narrate
the murder of Edward, King of the West Saxons, committed here by his mother-in-law, Elfrida.

It was in the gloomy dungeons of this castle that King John starved to death twenty-two prisoners
of war, many of whom were among the first nobility of Poictu, victims to the cruelty of a barbarous
sceptered tyrant! Then again, we thought of the fate of Peter of Pontefract, the imprudent
prophet, who, if he had turned over a page in the book of fate, should have folded down the
leaf instead of incurring the monarch's vengeance by meddling with state affairs.

It was in this fortress that the unfortunate Edward II. was murdered in 1372, by his cruel
keepers, Sir John Maltravers, and Sir Thomas Gurney, who having removed the dethroned monarch
from castle to castle, subjecting him to every hardship and indignity, hoping that ill-treatment
might shorten his days. At last they determined amidst the profound security afforded by this
impregnable castle, to effect his death in the most horrible manner, in order to prevent marks
of violence being seen on his corpse, namely, by inserting a horn tube into his body, through
which was conveyed a red-hot iron! Well may the traveller shudder at these ruins as they beetle
over him in frowning ruggedness, for they have been the murderers' den; and doubtless many
a deed of slaughter has been committed in them, which has never come to light, under tyrannical
power, which has never come to the knowledge of men or blotted the page of history.

The vast masses of the castle ruins which lie scattered about and in the vale below, form a
scene of havoc and devastation, at once magnificent and impressive. The towers were blasted
with gunpowder, and many

               "Which do slope
  Their heads to their foundations,"

appear as if they were yet staggering from the blast of the mine which sprung them from their
beds; they lean as if ready to tumble down the steep sides of the hill, and appear as if a
child's finger would roll them headlong. The ruins are in the possession of the family of Bankes.

In a meadow in the vale on the west side, which leads, by the by, to Orchard Farm, is to be
seen a curious earthwork, apparently ancient British, which, from its structure, might have
been a place of druidical judicature, or for pastimes. This relic has, we believe, escaped
the notice of the intelligent Rev. John Clavell of Kimmeridge; and if the public are ever to
be favoured with the result of his studies and patient investigations, it will be one of the
most extraordinary productions of its kind.

There is a small work on Corfe Castle, published by a very intelligent resident of Wareham;
and we are in hopes that the grey and hoary ruins may call forth the muse of J.F. Pennie, who
resides on this wild romantic district, and whom we met with pleasure in our rambles.

JAMES SILVESTER, SEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

KNOWLEDGE FOR THE PEOPLE; OR, THE PLAIN WHY AND BECAUSE.

Part 6.--Sports and Pastimes.

We quote the following from HUNTING:

Why is it inferred that hunting was practised by the ancient Britons?

Because Dionysius (who lived 50 B.C.) says, that the inhabitants of the northern part of this
island tilled no ground, but lived in great part upon the food they procured by hunting.

Cæsar tells us, that venison constituted a great portion of their food; and as they had in
their possession such dogs as were naturally prone to the chase, there can be little doubt
that they would exercise them for procuring their favourite diet; besides, they kept large
herds of cattle and flocks of sheep, both of which required protection from the wolves and
other ferocious animals that infested the woods and coverts, and must frequently have rendered
hunting an act of absolute necessity.--Strutt.

Why is hunting considered more ancient than hawking?

Because, in the earliest ages of the world, hunting was a necessary labour of self-defence,
or the first law of nature, rather than a pastime; while hawking could never have been adopted
from necessity, or in self-protection.

Why was hunting originally considered a royal and noble sport?

Because, as early as the ninth century, it formed an essential part of the education of a young
nobleman. Alfred the Great was an expert and successful hunter before he was twelve years of
age. Among the tributes imposed by Athelstan, upon a victory over Constantine, King of Wales,
were "hawks and sharp-scented dogs, fit for hunting of wild beasts." Harold, his successor,
rarely travelled without his hawk and hounds. William the Norman, and his immediate successors,
restricted hunting to themselves and their favourites. King John was particularly attached
to field sports, and even treated the animals worse than his subjects. In the reign of Edward
II. hunting was reduced to a perfect science, and rules established for its practice; these
were afterwards extended by the master of the game belonging to Henry IV., and drawn up for
the use of his son, Henry Prince of Wales, in two tracts, which are extant. Edward III., according
to Froissart, while at war with France, and resident there, had with him sixty couple of stag-hounds,
and as many hare-hounds, and every day hunted or hawked. Gaston, Earl of Foix, a foreign nobleman,
contemporary with Edward, also kept six hundred dogs in his castle for hunting. James I. preferred
hunting to hawking or shooting; so that it was said of him, "he divided his time betwixt his
standish, his bottle, and his hunting; the last had his fair weather, the two former his dull
and cloudy."

Ladies' hunting-dresses of the 15th century, as figured in Strutt's Sports, &c., differ but
little from the modern riding habit.

Why are greyhounds still petted by ladies?

Because in former times they were considered as valuable presents, especially among the ladies,
with whom they appear to have been peculiar favourites. In an ancient metrical romance (Sir
Eglamore), a princess tells the knight, that if he was inclined to hunt, she would, as an especial
mark of her favour, give him an excellent greyhound, so swift that no deer could escape from
his pursuit.--Strutt.

Why were certain forests called royal chases?

Because the privileges of hunting there were confined to the king and his favourites; and,
to render these receptacles for the beasts of the chase more capacious, or to make new ones,
whole villages were depopulated, and places of divine worship overthrown, not the least regard
being paid to the miseries of the suffering inhabitants, or the cause of religion.--Strutt.

Why were lands first imparked?

Because their owners might still more effectually preserve deer and other animals for hunting.

A recent French newspaper gave notice of an association for the purpose of enabling persons
of all ranks to enjoy the pleasures of the chase. A park of great extent is to be taken on
lease near Paris; its extent is about six thousand acres, partly arable, and partly forest
ground. The plan is, to open it to subscribers during six months--viz. from September 1 to
March 1, an ample stock of game being secured in preserves.

Why were parks and inclosures usually attached to priories?

Because they were receptacles of game for the clergy of rank, who at all times had the privilege
of hunting in their own possessions. At the time of the Reformation, the see of Norwich only
was in the possession of no less than thirteen parks, well stocked with deer and other animals
for the chase.--Spelman.

The eagerness of the clergy for hunting is described as irrepressible. Prohibitions of councils
produced little effect. In some instances a particular monastery obtained a dispensation. Thus,
that of St. Denis, in 774, represented to Charlemagne that the flesh of hunted animals was
salutary for sick monks, and that their skins would serve to bind books in the library. Alexander
III., by a letter to the clergy of Berkshire, dispenses with their keeping the archdeacon in
dogs and hawks during his visitation.--Rymer. An archbishop of York, in 1321, carried a train
of two hundred persons, who were maintained at the expense of the abbeys on his road, and who
hunted with a pack of hounds from parish to parish!--Whitaker's Hist. of Craven, quoted in
Hallam's Hist. Middle Ages.

Why was hunting formerly a very convenient resource for the wholesomeness, as well as luxury,
of the table?

Because the natural pastures being then unimproved, and few kinds of fodder for cattle discovered,
it was impossible to maintain the summer stock during the cold season. Hence a portion of it
was regularly slaughtered and salted for winter provision. We may suppose, therefore, that
when no alternative was offered but these salt meats, even the leanest venison was devoured
with relish.--Hallam's Hist. Middle Ages.

Why were all the great forests pierced by those long rectilinear alleys which appear in old
prints, and are mentioned in old books?

Because the avenues were particularly necessary for those large parties, resembling our modern
battues, where the honoured guests being stationed in fit standings, had an opportunity of
displaying their skill in venery by selecting the buck which was in season, and their dexterity
at bringing him down with the cross-bow or long-bow.

Why should a deer-park exhibit but little artificial arrangement in its disposal?

Because the stag, by nature one of the freest denizens of the forest, can only be kept even
under comparative restraint, by taking care that all around him intimates a complete state
of forest and wilderness. Thus, there ought to be a variety of broken ground, of copse-wood,
and of growing timber--of land, and of water. The soil and herbage must be left in its natural
state; the long fern, amongst which the fawns delight to repose, must not be destroyed.

Why did the common people formerly call the forest "good," and the greenwood "merry?"

Because of the pleasure they took in the scenes themselves, as well as in the pastimes which
they afforded.

Why is a short gallop called a canter?

Because of its abbreviation from Canterbury, the name of the pace used by the monks in going
to that city.

Why was a certain noise called the "hunt's-up?"

Because it was made to rouse a person in a morning; originally a tune played to wake the sportsmen,
and call them together, the purport of which was, The hunt is up! which was the subject of
hunting ballads also.

This expression is common among the older poets. One Gray, it is said, grew into good estimation
with Henry VIII. and the Duke of Somerset, "for making certaine merry ballades, whereof one
chiefly was, the hunte is up! the hunte is up!" Shakspeare has--

  Since arm from arm that voice doth us affray,
  Hunting thee hence with hunts-up to the day.
                            Romeo and Juliet.

Why is a small hunting horn called a bugle?

Because of its origin from bugill, which means a buffalo, or perhaps any horned cattle. In
the Scottish dialect it was bogle, or bowgill. Buffe, bugle, and buffalo, are all given by
Barrett, as synonimous for the wild ox.--Nares' Glossary.

Why is the stirrup so called?

Because of its origin from stigh-rope, from stigan ascendere, to mount; and thus termed by
our Saxon ancestors, from a rope being used for mounting when stirrups began to be used in
this island. It is evident, from various monuments of antiquity, that, at first, horsemen rode
without either saddles or stirrups.

Why are sportsmen said to hunt counter?

Because they hunt the wrong way, and trace the scent backwards. Thus, in an old-work, Gentleman's
Recreations: "When the hounds or beagles hunt it by the heel, we say they hunt counter." To
hunt by the heel must be to go towards the heel instead of the toe of the game--i.e. backwards.--Nares.

       *       *       *       *       *

WEATHER AT PARIS.

It appears from observations made at the Royal Observatory in Paris, that, in the year 1830,
the number of fine days was 164; of cloudy, 181; of rainy, 149; of foggy, 228; of frosty, 28;
of snowy, 24; of sleety, 8; of thundery, 13. The wind was northerly 44 times; north-easterly,
23 times; easterly, 17 times; south-easterly, 23 times; southerly, 74 times; south-westerly,
69 times; westerly, 71 times; and north-westerly, 47 times.--New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEER HOUSES.

It appears, from Parliamentary Returns, that five thousand three hundred and seventy-nine "beer
houses" have been opened under the new Act in England and Wales; while the number of public-houses
licensed is forty-five thousand six hundred and twenty-four. The number of beer-houses opened
in Wales, is one thousand seven hundred and seventy-three, nearly half the number opened in
all England--the number for England is three thousand six hundred and six.--Ib.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAVINGS' BANKS.

According to a Parliamentary Return just printed, the gross amount of sums received on account
of savings' banks is, since their establishment in 1817, 20,760,228l. Amount of sums paid,
5,648,338l. The balance therefore is, 15,111,890l. It also states that the gross amount of
interest paid and credited to savings' banks by the commissioners for the reduction of the
national debt is, 5,141,410l. 8s. 7d.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOAP.

According to the Parliamentary Returns, the quantity of soap charged with the excise duty in
great Britain, in the year ending the 5th of January, 1830, was--of hard soap, 103,041,961
lbs.; of soft soap, 9,068,918 lbs. In the year ending the 5th of January last, the quantity
was--of hard, 117,324,320 lbs.; and of soft, 10,209,519 lbs. The number of licenses granted
to soap-makers in the United Kingdom in the former year was 585, and in the latter 542.--Ib.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTOGRAPHS.

We have the pleasure of resuming these innate illustrations of genius. Some of the present
specimens are copied from the plate appended to the Edinburgh Literary Journal, whence the
page in No. 478 of the Mirror was taken. First is

LEIGH HUNT.--Leigh Hunt's writing is a good deal like the man: it is constrainedly easy, with
an affectation of ornament, yet withal a good hand. The signature is copied from a letter written
to a friend in Edinburgh, in 1820; and as one part of this letter is curious and interesting,
we have pleasure in presenting it to our readers. We are inclined to believe that there are
many good points about Leigh Hunt. We like the spirit of the following extract from his letter:--

"And this reminds me to tell you, that I am not the author of the book called the Scottish
Fiddle, which I have barely seen. The name alone, if you had known me, would have convinced
you that I could not have been the author. I had made quite mistakes enough about Sir Walter,
not to have to answer for this too. I took him for a mere courtier and political bigot. When
I read his novels, which I did very lately, at one large glut (with the exception of the Black
Dwarf, which I read before), I found that when he spoke so charitably of the mistakes of kings
and bigots, he spoke out of an abundance of knowledge, instead of narrowness, and that he could
look with a kind eye also at the mistakes of the people. If I still think he has too great
a leaning to the former, and that his humanity is a little too much embittered with spleen,
I can still see and respect the vast difference between the spirit which I formerly thought
I saw in him, and the little lurking contempts and misanthropies of a naturally wise and kind
man, whose blood perhaps has been somewhat saddened by the united force of thinking and sickliness.
He wishes us all so well that he is angry at not finding us better. His works occupy the best
part of some book-shelves always before me, where they continually fill me with admiration
for the author's genius, and with regret for my petty mistakes about it."--Edinburgh Literary
Journal.

J. SINCLAIR--the signature of the venerable Sir John Sinclair, Bart., who has written and edited
upwards of 25 useful works.

CAROLINE NORTON--the Honourable Mrs. Norton, author of the "Sorrows of Rosalie," the "Undying
One," &c., and grand-daughter of the late Mr. Thomas Sheridan. This signature is from a superb
portrait in a recent Number of the New Monthly Magazine: a lovelier and more intellectual head
and front we never beheld.

B.R. HAYDON--peculiarly characteristic of the writer's style of painting--large and bold. Whoever
has seen his Napoleon, just opened for exhibition, must, we think, acknowledge the above identity.
In our next Number we intend to notice the above triumph of art.

ALARIC A. WATTS--an elegant hand, worthy of the editor of the most elegant of the Annuals:
this, however, is not Mr. Watts's ordinary signature.

J. MONTGOMERY.--This hand is far more redundant in ornament than one would have expected from
so gentle and talented a Quaker; but the Quaker has been lost in the poet, as an old grey wall
is concealed under a luxuriant mantling of ivy. The autograph now engraved is copied from the
signature attached to the original of his beautiful poem on Night, beginning--"Night is the
time for rest."--Edinburgh Literary Journ.

CH. MAURICE DE TALLEYRAND--whose life will hereafter be traced throughout a volume of the history
of the last and present century. His age is 77. This signature is copied from the Frontispiece
to the last edition to the Court and Camp of Bonaparte, in the Family Library, which is a fine
portrait of Talleyrand, engraved by Finden, from a picture by Girard.

H. MACKENZIE--author of the Man of Feeling, &c. He died during the past year, in Edinburgh.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PANORAMA OF HOBART TOWN.

Mr. R. Burford, the most successful panorama painter of his day, has lately completed a View
of Hobart Town, Van Dieman's Land, and the surrounding country, which he is now exhibiting
in the Strand. It is not, perhaps, the most striking picture this ingenious artist has produced,
yet it is certainly one of the most interesting. The embellishments of books of travels, the
sketches of tourists, and the extravagant annual prints, have familiarized the stay-at-home
reader with almost every city on the European continent; but a view in Van Dieman's Land is
much more of a novelty. It is comparatively a terra incognita, about which every one must feel
some curiosity, though more rationally expressed than that of a King of Persia, who asked what
sort of a place America was--"underground, or how?" For the purpose of giving a general idea
of a country, a panoramic painting is well adapted: the size of the objects is at once natural,
there is no straining of eyes to make them out, and the effect of the whole scene is that of
being dropped in the midst of the country, and its surface at once spread before us.

Of Hobart Town we quote a brief description from Mr. Burford's pamphlet, or key to the picture:--

"The capital and seat of government of Van Dieman's Land, or Tasmania, is delightfully situated
at the head of Sullivan's Cove, on the south-east side of the river Derwent, about twelve miles
from its mouth. The town is built on two small hills and the intermediate valley, the whole
gently sloping towards the harbour from the foot of Mount Wellington--a rock which suddenly
rears its snow-clad summit to the height of 4,000 feet. Through the centre of the town a rapid
stream takes its course, giving motion to several mills, and affording a constant supply of
most excellent water for all domestic purposes, as well as increasing the salubrity and beauty
of the neighbourhood. From the summit of one of these hills, the present panorama was taken,
which, although it does not include the buildings in the lowest part of the valley, exhibits
every object particularly deserving notice, as well as the broad expanse of the Derwent, covered
with ships, boats, &c. Beyond the town, and on the opposite side of the river, the eye ranges
over a vast extent of country, richly variegated and diversified by gently rising hills, broad
and verdant slopes, farms, and pasture lands, in the highest state of cultivation, presenting
the most agreeable scenes, replete with the useful product of a rich soil and fine climate;
the whole bounded by lofty mountains, clothed with rich and almost impervious forests of evergreens,
occasionally intermixed with high and nearly perpendicular rocks, whose summits are, for a
great part of the year, covered with snow;--the whole forming one of the most agreeable, picturesque,
and romantic scenes that can be conceived.

"Van Dieman's Land is, from north to south, one hundred and sixty miles in length; and from
east to west, one hundred and forty-five miles in width; being separated from the main land
by Bass's Straits, which are nearly one hundred miles across. The whole island, which is, almost
without exception, of the most fertile and beautiful description, is divided into two counties--Buckingham
and Cornwall--of which Hobart Town and Dalrymple are the capitals: the distance between them
is one hundred and twenty miles.

"Hobart Town contains at present, upwards of one thousand houses, and has a resident population
exceeding seven thousand persons. The town is well planned, and the streets, which intersect
each other at right angles, are wide, the law compelling persons who build to leave at least
sixty feet in width for carriage and foot ways: they are Macadamized, and are, as well as the
numerous bridges over the stream, kept in excellent condition by the chain gangs. The houses
are generally built at a short distance from each other, and are partly surrounded with gardens,
which, with a very little attention, not always bestowed, become very ornamented and useful,
producing, not only the many beautiful trees and shrubs of the country, but every fruit, flower,
and vegetable, common in England. The houses are generally of two, sometimes of three, stories
in height, well built of brick or stone, and covered with shingles of the peppermint tree;
some few are still only weather boarded. The bricks are of a good and durable quality, and
the free-stone of a very beautiful description, but exceedingly dear. Many buildings are formed
of rough hewn stone, stuccoed with a good white cement, which keeps very clean. Macquarrie-street,
running in a straight line from the Pier, contains many very handsome public buildings and
private houses, being the residences of the principal settlers, merchants, &c. Rents are in
general very high;--a small house of four rooms and a kitchen, will let for sixty or eighty
pounds per annum; and a large one, adapted for a store, will obtain from two to three hundred.
It cannot be expected at this early period, that the public buildings should display much architectural
ornament; it is sufficient that they are large, substantially built, and well adapted for the
several purposes for which they were erected.--Besides the church, there is a Scotch church,
a neat stone building, near the barracks; a Wesleyan meeting, a stuccoed building in Bathurst-street;
and a small Catholic chapel in Patrick-street. There are several excellent academies, and a
seminary for young ladies, where first-rate accomplishments are taught, and every possible
care taken of the health and morals of their pupils, by Mrs. Midwood and Miss Shartland; there
are also day charity schools, on the Lancastrian system, for the children of convicts, labourers,
&c. The boarding houses and hotels are well conducted and comfortable; at the latter, every
accommodation to be found in one of the best English inns may be had, but at a truly English
price; the low public houses and the grog shops are of the vilest description. An active and
vigilant police has been recently reorganised, under the superintendence of two officers from
England, whose exertions are already attended with the most beneficial results.

"The climate is most salubrious, the mean temperature being 60 deg. Fahrenheit; the extremes,
36 deg. 80 deg. The spring usually commences in September; the summer in December; the autumn
in April; and the winter, seven weeks of which is very severe, in June."

The Panorama is well executed throughout, and in parts, with much delicacy and finish. The
distant country, bays, and points, are for the most part delightfully painted. Here and there
are spots which almost remind us of Virgil's

      --locos loetos, et amoena vireta,
  Fortunatorum nemorum, sedesque beatas:

and, without any view to a transportable offence, a man might well wish to settle himself here
"for life."

Mr. Burford's "Descriptions" are perhaps better drawn up than those of exhibitions in general.
In the Keyplate before us, fifty-two points or objects are denoted, and further illustrated
by half-a-dozen pages of letter-press.--In the town are seen the barracks; the governor's,
commissary's, and judges' residences; hotel, jail, lime-kilns, church, court-house, bank, hospital,
treasury, pier, &c., and Mrs. Midwood's seminary. Groups of convicts enliven the picture--we
had almost said enlighten it, from recollection of the picking propensities to which hundreds
of them are indebted for their abode here. They are deplorable specimens of fallen nature--such
as may be seen in droves slinking to their work in the dock-yard at Portsmouth, or elsewhere,
and still bearing the front of humanity in their begrimed features, but harrowing the spectator
with painful recollections of their moral abandonment. One of the groups is a chain gang at
work--breaking stones for the road--or, a last effort at self-improvement, by mending the ways
of others. How different would these worthies appear in a rabble rout at a London fire, or
in all the sleekness of civilization, as exhibited in the sundry avocations of picking a pocket,
in easing a country gentleman of his uncrumpled or bright dividend, or studying our ease and
comfort by helping themselves to all our houses contain without the rudeness of disturbing
our slumbers. A neighbouring group of natives, though less sightly than these fallen sons of
civilization, in a moral point of view, would be a happy contrast, could we but look into the
hearts of both parties, and see what is passing therein.

But we are moralizing, and this may not be the most showy inducement for the reader to visit
Mr. Burford's Panorama, and admire its pictorial beauties. Let him do so; and before he leaves
the place, turn about, and think for himself, and be assured there is good in every thing.

       *       *       *       *       *

INK LITHOGRAPHY.

An exquisite specimen of this branch of art, by the ingenious Mr. R. Martin, of Holborn, has
hitherto escaped our notice. It was forwarded to us some weeks since, and accidentally mislaid.
It is, however, never too late to be just--by saying that the performance before us, in clearness,
delicacy, and finish, equals, if not exceeds, every specimen yet produced in this country,
or those we have seen on or from the continent. The Drawing is about the size of two pages
of the Mirror, and exhibits specimens of almost every branch of the art. Thus, there are fruit
and flowers--an antique cross--a Gothic tomb--bust and ornamented pedestal--laurel wreath--the
Corinthian capital and Egyptian architecture--wood scenery--a beautiful landscape--a portrait
of Lord Clarendon--"Portrait of a Lady"--a storm on the sea-coast--anatomical picture--a crouching
tiger--a charter, with the seal affixed, the latter extremely fine--a country plan, very delicate
and clear--suit of ancient armour, &c. The etchy spirit of these subjects almost equals the
finest work on copper, and its elaborateness proves to how great perfection English artists
have already carried the art of drawing on stone. Compared with some of their early productions,
the present is a marvel of art: it combines the perspicuity of a pen-and-ink drawing with the
freedom and fine effect of chalk drawing. We hope to hear nothing more of the uncertainty of
lithography.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHILANTHROPY

Is the only consistent species of public love. A patriot may be honest in one thing, yet a
knave in all else;--a philanthropist sees and seizes the whole of virtue.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PUNCH AND JUDY.

By a Modern Pythagorean.

One day last summer I happened to be travelling in the coach between Lanark and Glasgow. There
were only two inside passengers besides myself; viz. an elderly woman, and a gentleman, apparently
about thirty years of age, who sported a fur cap, a Hessian cloak, and large moustaches. The
former was, I think, about the most unpleasant person to look at I had ever seen. Her features
were singularly harsh and forbidding. She was also perfectly taciturn, for she never opened
her lips, but left me and the other passenger to keep up the conversation the best way we could.
The young man I found to be a very pleasant and intelligent fellow--quite a gentleman in his
manners; and apparently either an Oxon or a Cantab, for he talked much and well about the English
universities, a subject on which I also happened to be tolerably conversant. But, agreeable
as his conversation was, it could not prevent me from entertaining an unpleasant feeling--one
almost amounting to dislike and hostility--against the female; whom I regarded, from the first
moment, with singular aversion. We were not troubled, however, very long with her company,
for she left us at Dalserf, about half way between Lanark and Hamilton.

"It is very curious, sir," said I to the stranger when she had gone, "that I should feel so
strangely annoyed as I have been with that woman. I absolutely know nothing about her, and
cannot lay a single fault to her charge, but plain looks and taciturnity; and yet I feel as
if no inducement would tempt me to step again into a coach where I knew she was to be present.
And after all, for any thing I know to the contrary, she may be a very good woman."

