"It is always that way," said Constans, bitterly. "His will against mine at every turn; a rock
upon which I beat with naked hands."

"He is a strong man," answered Esmay, thoughtfully, "but I think I know where his power lies.
It is simply that neither his friends nor his enemies are aware of how they stand with him."

But Constans did not even notice that she was speaking; the remembrance of his unfulfilled
purpose seized and racked him. He had hated this man, Quinton Edge, from that first moment
in which their eyes had clashed--ever and always. At first instinctively; then with reason
enough and to spare; and yet this small world still held them both. How long were his hands
to be tied? Once and again his enemy had stood before him and had gone his way insolently triumphant.
He might be now in the house yonder, and Constans looked at it eagerly. A master passion, primitive
and crude, possessed him.

The girl divined the hostile nature of the power which held him, and instinctively she put
forth her own strength against it.

"Listen!" she said, and plucked him by the sleeve. Constans looked at her.

"I am going to trust you," she went on, quickly. "The time may come when I can no longer remain
in safety at Arcadia House. When it does I will let you know by displaying a white signal in
the western window of the cupola. Then you will come?"

"I will come," he answered, albeit a little slowly and heavily as one who seeks to find himself.

Esmay opened the door and looked out. It was almost dark, and after listening a moment she
seemed satisfied.

"You have a ladder? Very well, you need not be afraid of the dogs, for when you see the signal
I will arrange that they are kept in leash. And now you had better go; they are surely unchained
by this time, and any moment may bring them ranging about. Good-bye, and remember your promise."

They walked along together until they came to the plantation of spruce-trees. Constans could
see that his ladder was still in place on the wall; his path of retreat was open. He put out
his hand, and her slim, cool palm rested for a moment in his. She nodded, smiled, and left
him, going directly towards the house.

Moved by an inexplicable impulse, Constans followed for a short distance, keeping under the
shelter of the trees. Then suddenly to him, straining his eyes through the dusk, there appeared
a second figure, that of a woman, clothed wholly in white, hovering close upon the retreating
steps of the girl.

Constans felt his knees loosen under him, the ancient superstitions being still strong in his
blood for all of his studies and new-found philosophy.

"It is her sister Nanna," he muttered to himself, and knew that he lied in saying it. The old
wives' tales, at which he had shuddered in boyhood, came crowding back upon him--grisly legends
of vampire shapes and of the phantoms, invariably feminine in form, who were said to inhabit
ruined places. A panic terror seized him as he watched the apparition gliding so swiftly and
noiselessly upon the unconscious girl. Yet he continued to run forward, stumbling and slipping
on the treacherous foothold of melting snow.

Esmay had reached a side door of the main building; quite naturally she entered and closed
the door behind her, while the white-robed figure, after hesitating a moment, walked to a far
corner of the house and disappeared. Out of the indefinite distance came the deep-throated
bay of a hound. Constans turned and fled for his life.

Safely astride the wall coping he looked back. All was quiet in the garden, and at that instant
a light shone out at an upper window of the house.

"She is safe," he told himself, and that was enough to know.

As he walked slowly westward, the thought of Ulick came again to him.