COMBUSTION.--Any flame of sufficient size can be used for blowpipe operations. It may be either
the flame of a candle of tallow or wax, or the flame of a lamp. The flame of a wax candle,
or of an oil lamp is most generally used. Sometimes a lamp is used filled with a solution of
spirits of turpentine in strong alcohol. If a candle is used, it is well to cut the wick off
short, and to bend the wick a little toward the substance experimented upon. But candles are
not the best for blowpipe operations, as the radiant heat, reflecting from the substance upon
the wax or tallow, will cause it to melt and run down the side of the candle; while again,
candles do not give heat enough. The lamp is much the most desirable. The subjoined figure,
from Berzelius, is perhaps the best form of lamp. It is made of japanned tin-plate, about four
inches in length, and has the form and arrangement represented in Fig. 5. K is the lamp, fastened
on the stand, S, by a screw, C, and is movable upwards or downwards, as represented in the
figure. The posterior end of the lamp may be about one inch square, and at its anterior end,
E, about three-quarters of an inch square. The under side of this box may be round, as seen
in the figure. The oil is poured into the orifice, A, which has a cap screwed over it. C' is
a wickholder for a flat lamp-wick. a is a socket containing the wick, which, when not in use,
is secured from dirt by the cap. The figures B and a' give the forms of the cap and socket.
The best combustible for this lamp is the refined rape-seed oil, or pure sweet oil. When this
lamp is in use, there must be no loose threads, or no charcoal on the wick, or these will produce
a smoky flame. The wick, likewise, should not be pulled up too high, as the same smoky flame
would be produced.

THE SPIRIT-LAMP.--This is a short, strong glass lamp, with a cap, B, Fig. 6, fitted to it by
grinding, to prevent the evaporation of the alcohol. The neck a contains a tube C, made of
silver, or of tin plate, and which contains the wick. Brass would not answer so well for this
tube, as the spirits would oxidize it, and thus impart color to the flame. The wickholder must
cover the edge of the neck, but not fit tight within the tube, otherwise, by its expansion,
it will break the glass. It is not necessary that alcohol, very highly rectified, should be
burnt in this lamp, although if too much diluted with water, enough heat will not be given
out. Alcohol of specific gravity 0.84 to 0.86 is the best.

This lamp is generally resorted to by blowpipe analysts, for the purpose of experiments in
glass apparatus, as the oily combustibles will coat the glass with soot. Some substances, when
exposed to the dark part of the flame, become reduced and, in statu nascendi, evaporated; but
by passing through the external part of the flame, they become oxidized again, and impart a
color to the flame. The spirit flame is the most efficient one for the examination of substances
the nature of which we wish to ascertain through color imparted to the flame, as that of the
spirit-lamp being colorless, is, consequently, most easily and thoroughly recognized by the
slightest tinge imparted to it.

It is necessary that in operating with such minute quantities of substances as are used in
blowpipe analysis, that they should have some appropriate support. In order that no false results
may ensue, it is necessary that the supports should be of such a nature that they will not
form a chemical combination with the substance while it is exposed to fusion or ignition. Appropriate
supports for the different blowpipe experiments are charcoal, platinum instruments, and glass
tubes.

(a.) Charcoal.--The value of charcoal as a support may be stated as follows:

