Friday.--PROVAND brought on Motion raising vexed question of Taxation of Land. OLD MORALITY
always on look-out to do kind thing; thought this would be good opportunity of trotting out
CHAPLIN; had no chance of distinguishing himself since he became Minister. So CHAPLIN put up;
made mellifluous speech. Unfortunately, Mr. G. present; listened to CHAPLIN with suspicious
suavity; followed him, and, as JEMMY LOWTHER puts it, "turned him inside out, and hung him
up to dry." Played with him like a cat with a mouse; drew him out into damaging statements;
then danced on his prostrate body. About the worst quarter of an hour CHAPLIN ever had in House,
with JOKEM on one side of him, and OLD MORALITY on other, tossing about on their seats, exchanging
groans and glances, while CHAPLIN mopped the massive brow on which stood forth iridescent gleams
of moisture.

"Meant it all for the best," said OLD MORALITY; "but who'd have thought of Mr. G. being here?
CHAPLIN's a great Minister of Agriculture; but, when it comes to questions of finance, not
quite on a par with Mr. G." Business done.--House Counted Out.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAMBERS IN ST. JAMES'S STREET.

THE IDLER, by HADDON CHAMBERS, is a real good play, thoroughly interesting from the rising
to the setting of the Curtain. The parts are artistically adjusted, the dialogue unforced,
the acting un-stagey, and the situations powerfully dramatic. The climax is reached at the
"psychological moment," and the Curtain descends upon all that a sympathetic audience can possibly
desire to know of what must be once and for all the story of a life-time. "The rest is silence."
Throughout the play there is no parade of false sentimentality, no tawdry virtue, no copy-book
morality, no vicious silliness; and, so well constructed is the plot, that there is no need
of a wearisome extra Act, by way of postscript, to tell us how all the characters met again
at the North Pole or Land's End; how everybody explained everything to everybody else; how
the Idler, becoming a busy-body, married the widow of Sir John Harding, M.P., who had had the
misfortune to be drowned out shrimping; and how many other matters happened for which the wearied
audience would not care one snap of the finger and thumb. On another occasion I shall have
something to say about the acting, which, as far as the men are concerned, has certainly not
been equalled since the days of Peril. The St. James's is in for a good thing with The Idler;
and at this moment I may say, I would be ALEXANDER were I not, briefly,

DIOGENES "THE TUBMAN," B.C.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

ACTING--ON A SUGGESTION.--The Woman, always well informed, tells us on February 26, that, "owing
to numerous applications," Mr. C.T. GREIN is negotiating for the Royalty Theatre, in order
to give another Ibsenian performance. Now this is exactly what we suggested in our number for
February 14. If the date suits, we will go and see Ghosts, and, if we succeed in keeping up
our spirits after seeing Ghosts, we will give a candid opinion on the performance of the piece
which hitherto we know only in print. En attendant, we shall have something to say about the
recent performance of that piece of Ibsenity A Doll's House--in our next.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT'S IN A NAME?--On the recent occasion of the QUEEN's visit to Portsmouth, no one of the
officials seems to have been more on the alert and more generally alive than Mr. DEADMAN, the
Chief Constructor of the Yard.

       *       *       *       *       *

"EN ITERUM CRISPINUS!"--Hamlet on the real distinction between Theatres and Music Halls--

    "To B. (and S.) or not to B. (and S.) that is the question!"

       *       *       *       *       *

HAPPY PROSPECT.--The Wild Birds, if the Bill for their protection becomes law, will remember,
the Session of 1891 as a year of PEASE and Quiet.