This success, incomplete as it was, might have seemed to offer a good opportunity for coming
to a settlement, and again Louis XIV. was ready to give his services in the capacity of peacemaker.
The Dutch were still obstinate and extravagant in their demands. But the policy of Louis was
suddenly changed by the death of the King of Spain, by the new prospects which were thus opened
to him, and by his hopes to secure the assistance of the Dutch in seizing Flanders. In the
autumn of 1665, France was obviously ready to sacrifice the friendship of England for this
new alliance. Never was the prospect more threatening. The burden of the war had been terribly
severe. To that burden was added the grievous scourge of the plague now raging in London, with
such intensity that it claimed 10,000 victims in one week. When in October, 1665, Clarendon
laid before Parliament a narrative of the war, and asked for new supplies, the outlook for
England was dark indeed. The appeal was met generously, and a new grant of £1,250,000 was voted.
But the King's Ministers had to face the probability of an almost solid alliance against them.
The resources of the Bishop of Munster were exhausted, and in no case could he maintain himself
in the field when greater Powers intervened. Sweden and Denmark were at best but doubtful friends.
France saw her opportunity. She urged that the King of England should formulate his demands
against the Dutch, and so permit France to mediate and thus stop a war which was interfering
with the trade of Europe, and in which the excesses of the privateers had inflicted heavy damages
upon French merchantmen. The intervention of France assumed a more and more threatening aspect.
At length, Clarendon had to make a firm stand against the attitude assumed. The words he uses
are grave and dignified.

"The counsellors of the King told the French Ambassadors that their master had very well considered
the disadvantage he must undergo by the access of so powerful a friend, and of whose friendship
he thought himself possessed, to the part of his enemies who were too insolent already; to
prevent it, he would do anything that would consist with the dignity of a King; but that he
must be laughed at and despised by all the world, if he should consent to make him arbitrator
of the differences, who had already declared himself to be a party; that such menaces would
make no impression in the last article of danger that could befall the King." [Footnote: Life,
ii. 437.]

The conference broke off with no doubt in the mind of Clarendon that France was resolved on
war. When the Council was called to consider the situation "there was," he says, "no one present
who had not a deep apprehension of the extreme damage and danger that must fall upon the King's
affairs, if at this juncture France should declare war against England." But however much he
withstood the outbreak of the war, it was not consistent with Clarendon's mood to yield in
presence of danger.

Meanwhile no further successes had attended the prosecution of the war. By means of Henry Coventry
and Talbot, efforts were still made to bind Sweden and Denmark closer to England, and in July,
a scheme had been arranged by which the Dutch fleet of East Indian merchantmen, while in the
harbour of Bergen, should be handed over to Lord Sandwich, who had now succeeded the Duke of
York as Commander of the English fleet. The plan was not one that reflected much credit on
any of those engaged in it; and it was not crowned by the atoning quality of even partial success.
The Dutch showed fight, the citizens of Bergen resented the attack by the English fleet, contradictory
or dilatory orders produced doubt and confusion, and the damage and loss were distributed equally
amongst the attackers and the attacked. De Ruyter drew off with his convoy, and Sandwich returned
from a bootless errand. France managed to detach Denmark from England, and to bring about a
treaty with the Dutch which bound Denmark to assist Holland against England. Sweden remained
at best a half-hearted friend.

Sandwich was injured at once by his failure at Bergen and by a peculiarly ill-conducted case
of mal-appropriation of prizes, of which he was guilty. [Footnote: Sandwich had never been
a close adherent of Clarendon. But Clarendon is generous enough, in this crisis of his fortunes,
to defend him against his enemies, and to acquit him of all but a somewhat awkward exercise
of a right of perquisites. In Clarendon's eyes, he had the saving merit of being attacked by
Coventry. See post, p. 235.] He was sent as ambassador to Spain, and Prince Rupert and the
Duke of Albemarle were appointed to joint command of the fleet. The "affection and unquestionable
courage of Prince Rupert were not doubted"--so Clarendon said when arranging the matter with
Albemarle--"but the King was not sure that the quickness of his spirit, and the strength of
his passion, might not sometimes stand in need of a friend, who should be in equal authority
with him." [Footnote: Life, ii. 485. In these words, Clarendon no doubt expressed some lively
memories of the days of the Civil War.] The combination did not answer well. By a fatal error--not
improbably induced by Rupert's desire for independent action--the fleet was broken up, and
the Prince sailed, on the credit of a false report, to meet a French fleet under Admiral Beaufort.
While he was thus detached, Albemarle was attacked by the Dutch fleet, and escaped only with
heavy loss. A month or two later a portion of the English fleet attacked Schelling--a sea-port
on the Zuyder Zee--and burned a fleet of merchantmen and the town itself.

"The conflagration, with that of the ships, appearing at the break of day so near Amsterdam,
put that place into that consternation that they thought the day of judgment was come, and
thinking of their ships there as being out of the power and reach of any enemy; and no doubt
it was the greatest loss that State sustained in the whole war." [Footnote: Life, iii. 80.]

But it was a costly success; "it raised great thoughts of heart in De Witt, and a resolution
of revenge before any peace should be thought of," [Footnote: Life, iii. 80.] and it did not
materially improve the position for England.

To the burden of the plague and of war there was now added--in September, 1666--the calamity
of the Great Fire of London. Clarendon was not disposed to accept humiliating terms, but prudence
forbade him to reject openings for peace. Charles offered in January, 1667, to send an embassy
to the Hague to treat of peace. The place was selected because it was believed that there the
party of the Prince of Orange might best balance the influence of De Witt, and give an impulse
to the peace negotiations. Delay was caused by other places being proposed in its stead, but
there was no unwillingness to enter upon negotiations. These, however, received their chief
impulse from the separate proposals for a treaty between England and France. These proposals
had at first been made through the Queen-Mother, Henrietta Maria; but at a later stage the
Earl of St. Albans (Jermyn) was deputed to act for the King. The wheels of the negotiations
drove heavily, and suspicion clogged the proceedings on both sides; but it became clear that
both sides desired peace. Breda was now named, on the suggestion of the English King, as the
meeting-place for the wider negotiations, and was accepted by the Dutch. But their intentions
were still doubtful, and even when the negotiations opened at Breda, in May, 1667, they absolutely
declined a proposal for a cessation of hostilities pending the negotiations. De Witt had not
yet given up "the great thoughts of heart" that the burning of Schelling had raised, nor had
he dismissed his "resolution of revenge before any peace should be thought of." He was not
without hope from the state of the English fleet; he knew well that the English Treasury was
in no position to meet new outlays; and he counted upon the depression caused by pestilence
and the Fire. The city would be hard put to it to advance money on the credit of the supplies
newly voted.

As a fact, the largest ships of the fleet were actually laid up. Only the lighter vessels which
could act against the enemy's merchantmen were kept in commission, and the necessary defences
of the kingdom were reduced to a minimum, in reckless reliance on the speedy conclusion of
the peace negotiations. It was that prime object of Clarendon's dislike, Sir William Coventry,
who was responsible for this act of treasonable neglect. Such was the position, when De Ruyter's
fleet appeared at the Nore on June 10th, 1667. The Dutch Fleet divided; one division moved
up to Gravesend; another broke through the defences of the Medway, [Footnote: Works were in
progress at Sheerness, and the King had visited the place, and given orders for new fortifications.
The Commissioners of the Admiralty had been too busy with peculations to carry them out.] burned
the guardships, captured the first-class warship, the Royal Charles, and next day pursued their
advantage further, and burned three more first-class ships of war. The guns were heard in London,
and for the first time for six hundred years, the way seemed open for the invader. The citizens
of London realized the straits to which the folly of their rulers had brought them. [Footnote:
Disastrous and disgraceful as was the episode, the alarm and confusion which it caused at Court
seemed to Clarendon even more degrading. "All they who had most advanced the war and reproached
all who had been against it, as men who had no public spirit, and were not solicitous for the
honour and glory of the nation; and who had never spoken of the Dutch but with scorn and contempt,
as a nation rather worthy to be cudgelled than fought with, were now the most dejected men,
railed very bitterly at those who had advised the King to enter into that war-- and wished
that a peace, as the only hope, were made on any terms" (Life, iii. 251). The braggart repeats
himself in all ages and all nations.]

These exploits, serious as they were, marked the limit of the Dutch success. Their memory would
not soon be wiped out, and they inflicted a sore wound upon the pride of England. But De Witt
could not hazard the impossible. Other attempts were made elsewhere--at Portsmouth and at Plymouth--but
they were easily repelled. Even De Witt could feel that his resolution of revenge was satisfied,
and he allowed the negotiations at Breda to proceed. On July 21st, treaties were there signed
with France, with Holland, and with Denmark. Peace was based upon the maintenance of the status
quo; no cession of territory was to take place. The rights of commerce and of navigation were
to be as provided by the treaty of 1662. Never was a costly and devastating war entered upon
more recklessly, conducted, on our side at least, with more helpless inefficiency, and closed
with a smaller result in any change which it effected. The people of England accepted peace
as a relief; they found in it neither honour, nor compensation for their heavy loss.

A point of no little importance may be noted before we conclude the narrative of this disastrous
war, to which Clarendon was so bitterly opposed, and for which he was afterwards so unjustly
blamed. Before the negotiations were completed, while the impression of the bold attack of
De Witt was still heavy upon the country, and when his ships still threatened the dockyards
and the home counties bordering on the Thames, a constitutional question of some difficulty
arose. It was necessary suddenly to levy troops and incur heavy expenses for the defences of
each bank of the river. No provision had been made for this, and Parliament was prorogued until
October 20th. It was debated in Council whether Parliament could be summoned in anticipation
of that date, or how otherwise money could be obtained. Clarendon saw that the meeting of Parliament
could only increase the prevailing alarm, that it might lead to serious confusion, and that
as a means of obtaining money, its grants would be so delayed as to be useless. For himself
he held that Parliament could not legally be summoned in advance of the date proclaimed; and
he strongly urged that money could be legally provided by way of loan, to be deducted from
next assessment. After full debate the point was decided contrary to his advice: but fortunately
before Parliament met, the peace had been concluded, and the emergency was gone. The vexed
question of special supplies, and of the extraordinary powers of the Crown, was thus luckily
avoided. But Clarendon's contention was soon to form a good handle of attack to his enemies.

CHAPTER XXII

ADMINISTRATIVE FRICTION

In order to be a great Foreign Minister, a statesman must follow one of two courses. He must
either hold the internal affairs of the country in a grasp of iron, so securely as to impose
an effectual guard against their ever becoming a source of trouble or agitation; or else he
must abandon these affairs to a knot of subsidiary and secondary agents, who will be content
to steer strictly according to the course which he has laid down. Cromwell is a good specimen
of the first; Chatham is the most conspicuous example of the second. Circumstances did not
allow Clarendon to pursue either course, and his efforts to guide his country through the stormy
sea of foreign politics were foredoomed to failure. He could look back with little satisfaction
on the waste of life and treasure in the war now closed. He was thwarted by a crowd of jealous
intriguers at home, and his intentions and directions as to foreign politics were often set
aside by such an agent as Downing.

But from foreign affairs we have now to turn to those matters of internal politics which had
necessarily occupied much of Clarendon's attention while the war was in progress. Here, again,
he had to tread a thorny path. It seemed as if there was no possible source of mischief which
did not add something to his troubles. He saw that the recklessness of the courtiers was breeding
irritation and contempt towards the Crown, and weakening the nerves and sinews of the nation.
All he could now hope for in the King was, that he might to some extent hide the scandals of
his Court, and not be entirely led away by the more dangerous spirits in it. Efficient aid
from his master, Clarendon had ceased to expect; it would be well if the worst gang amongst
the courtiers could at least be persuaded to interfere as little as might be with affairs of State.

Meanwhile the signs of widespread disaffection were clearly visible to Clarendon, and the existence
of dangerous conspiracies was confirmed by the strongest evidence. These were not the less
threatening because they were disseminated throughout the most dissimilar sections of society,
and were actuated by the most opposite aims. The wilder sects of the Independents were avowedly
animated by revolutionary schemes, and violent preachers advocated them in their "congregated
churches," where they regularly assembled, in various parts of London, and stirred one another
to frenzy by aspirations for the rule of the saints. Restless discontent, disappointed ambition,
the jealousy of jarring factions at Court, all found ready instruments in the enthusiasts who
revived many of the strange vagaries of doctrine that had been rife during the Civil War. Anabaptists
and Millenarians, Fifth-monarchy men and Levellers--all were mingled together in the cauldron
of religious and political frenzy. The reckless vanity of a courtier like Buckingham found
it useful to cultivate the good-will of the more ardent sectaries. The Civil War had left an
ample crop of bravos, who were to be hired for any outrage, and whose excesses added to the
restless uneasiness that prevailed, and that made men nervously apprehensive of revolution.
The religious enthusiast, and the blustering cut-throat of Alsatia, were equally open to the
persuasions of any turbulent faction which sought to defy the law. The forces of order which
Clarendon commanded were but scanty. The elements of turbulence were overwhelming in number,
and were weakened only by their confusion and diversity. It was not Clarendon alone who saw
and dreaded the danger of disturbance. His fears were shared even by those counsellors, such
as Clifford and Arlington, who were his jealous opponents; and it was only too evident how
many sources of combustion went to feed the flame of discontent. The Presbyterians, however
little in sympathy with the aims of the wilder sectaries, were bitterly disappointed at the
ecclesiastical settlement, and deemed that their Royalist leanings had been rewarded by the
basest ingratitude. The burden of taxation was excessive, and its irksomeness was sorely aggravated
by the added misfortunes of the Plague and the Fire. The confidence of the city was shaken,
and the monied men shrank from making advances to a discredited administration. Even those
amongst the opponents of the Court for whom the title of patriot has been claimed--perhaps
on flimsy grounds,--were not ashamed to negotiate with the French King, or the Dutch Pensionary,
and to offer their services to the enemies of their country. [Footnote: On June 9, 1665, Downing
writes to Clarendon that Algernon Sidney was at Breda, disguised as a Frenchman, on his way
to the Hague; and that "others of that gang" were flocking to the Dutch as enthusiastic allies.]
It seemed as if every evil which Divine vengeance, religious frenzy, human folly, foreign enemies
abroad, and deep-rooted political discontent at home, could engender, were poured out into
the welter of confusion that reigned in England during these unhappy years. In such a turbid
flood had Clarendon to steer the ship of State.

It was this general confusion, and the dangers which it threatened, that formed the theme of
the King's Speech to Parliament at the opening of the session in March, 1664. That Speech was
doubtless composed by Clarendon, and may be taken as expressing his views. [Footnotes: It is
given by Clarendon (Life, ii. 281) with a fullness which proves that he had the notes of it
still in his possession.] "The spirits of many of our old enemies," it said, "were still active."
Old conspiracies, detected in the capital, had shown themselves once more in the provinces.

"The malcontents were still pursuing the same consultation, and have correspondence with desperate
persons in most counties, and a standing council in the metropolis, from which they receive
their directions, and by whom they were advised to defer their last intended insurrection."
"These desperate men," he proceeded, "have not been all of one mind in the ways of carrying
on their wicked resolutions. Some would still insist upon the authority of the Long Parliament,
of which, they say, they have members enough willing to meet; others have fancied to themselves
by some computation of their own, upon some clause of the Triennial Bill, that this present
Parliament was at an end some months since; and that, for want of new writs, they may assemble
themselves and choose members of Parliament."

Then follows a passage which has caused much searching of hearts amongst our Whig historians.
But, assure yourselves, if I should think otherwise, I could never suffer a Parliament to come
together by the means prescribed in that Bill." [Footnote: In a note upon this passage, Mr.
Lister assumes that it means only that the King pledged himself to summon a Parliament within
the prescribed time, rather than allow it to meet by the operation of the Act; but that he
did not contemplate anything but submission to the Act, in the event of failure of such summons.
He differs--with some hesitation--from Mr. Hallam, who stigmatizes it as "an audacious declaration,
equivalent to an avowed design, in certain circumstances, of preventing the execution of the
laws by force of arms"-- a declaration such as "was never before heard from the lips of an
English King." We take the liberty of agreeing with Hallam's interpretation as against Lister's,
but of dissenting from Hallam's estimate of the culpability of the avowal.]

It is absurd to think it needful either to explain away such a plain statement of policy, or
to attribute to its author any constitutional crime. The King declared his intention to have
constant recourse to Parliaments. But he also declared, with good reason, not only that he
gave no weight whatever to the baseless assumption that a new Parliament must be elected every
three years, but also that he would never feel himself justified, by the provisions of an Act
of Parliament passed under evil auspices, in permitting a Parliament to be elected under conditions
which necessarily implied a complete subversion of every constitutional principle. There is
such a thing as pedantic reverence for statute law. It is perfectly clear that a statute which
provided that electors might proceed themselves to elect their representatives, and that sovereign
power should be committed to these representatives, virtually assumes a state of anarchy to
prevail. No constituted authority could, consistently with its fundamental duty, ever contemplate
a case in which it could voluntarily permit such procedure. Far from proclaiming an intention
to infringe the constitution, Charles only uttered a commonplace of administrative duty. It
is perfectly clear that to permit the course indicated in the Triennial Act would be to bring
into being not one Parliament, but as many Parliaments as there were different factions in
the country, free to meet together and chose their own representatives as and how they pleased.
In such a case effective government would have ceased to exist. The Speech from the Throne
had at least the desired effect. The Bill for the repeal of the Triennial Act passed rapidly
through both Houses. Parliament was not to be intermitted for more than three years; but the
enactment was buttressed by none of the obnoxious provisions of the previous Act, which would
have preserved the fiction of a free Parliament by a resort to the methods of anarchy, and
by assuming that such methods were consistent with constitutional and settled government.

But further measures appeared necessary to secure the safety of Church and Crown. Alarm had
been created by the threatening tone of the addresses in the "congregated churches," where
the preachers drew their most effective metaphors from the language of the camp and the battlefield,
and where he was heard with most reverence who depicted in the most lurid language the doom
which overhung the Court and the Church, and of which it was the duty of every devout enthusiast
to make himself the instrument. To check this it was deemed necessary to proscribe Conventicles,
and a new Bill was introduced, and rapidly passed, declaring any meeting of more than five
persons for religious services, otherwise than in accordance with the Liturgy of the Church,
to be "a seditious and unlawful conventicle." The penalty for attendance was, in the case of
a first offender, to be a fine of five pounds, or three months' imprisonment; ten pounds, or
six months for a second offence; and thereafter transportation, or a fine of one hundred pounds.
It is, of course, easy to denounce this Act on the specious and readily accepted principle
of religious toleration. But, as it met with no opposition in a Parliament where there was
already a party prepared to thwart the measures of the Court, we must assume that the general
sense of danger appeared to justify it beyond possibility of contradiction. We must at least
not forget, in judging the justification of the Act, that it embodied the same principles which
were applied until the last quarter of the eighteenth century, under a succession of Whig administrations,
to assemblies of Episcopalian adherents in Scotland, and of Roman Catholics in both countries.
If the principle of religious toleration is to be a universal guide, it is difficult to say
why the maxims it enjoins should be held to apply only in the case of Presbyterians and Independents.
Whatever the blame to be measured out to the promoters of the Act, there is no ground for exempting
Clarendon from his share of responsibility. Our estimate of the weight of that responsibility
will vary according as we judge the real danger of the situation. That there was widespread
and implacable disaffection, there can be no reasonable doubt. That it was fostered to a very
large extent by the earnest sympathy, and the stimulating harangues, of the sectarian preachers,
admits of just as little doubt. Rumours of plots were thickening day by day. Evidence was forthcoming
of a plan for seizing the Tower, and one, Colonel Danvers, who was concerned in it, was rescued
from the hands of the King's officers by open force. [Footnote: Pepys, August 5th, 1665.] The
Plague not unnaturally increased the panic that prevailed; and the air seemed darkened by vague
threatenings, in which war, pestilence, and famine cast their gloomy shadows over the land.
It is hard to say how Clarendon, or any other Minister, could have withstood the determination
of Parliament to make adequate provision against what it deemed to be impending dangers.

The increasing prevalence of the Plague forced the Court and Parliament once again, in 1665,
to move to Oxford; and there legislation followed the same course.

The Bill was evidently conceived under the influence of a panic. Absurd as were its provisions,
they would perhaps not have been so severely condemned, under the high ethical standard of
later historians, had they not been accompanied by the almost humorous provision that the penalties
should be escaped by an oath, which not the most compliant Nonconformists could possibly have
accepted. Sarcastic pleasantries of that sort always bring upon coercive legislation a heavier
condemnation than it would otherwise incur.

Whatever its merits or demerits, the Bill was one which the House of Commons was determined
to have, and which it passed without a division. It was only in the Lords that it met with
opposition. There its chief advocate was Archbishop Sheldon, whose inclination coincided with
what he naturally believed to be his duty--to press every advantage for the Church. Sheldon
was faithful to his convictions, and frankly desirous of securing the Church against any new
efforts of the Nonconformists. His attitude was that of the stalwart ecclesiastical protagonist,
whose business it was to avenge the wrongs of the Church, not to conciliate her foes; and considerations
of what was prudent in secular politics had no concern for him. Between Sheldon and Clarendon
there was the sympathy of old and tried friendship and of comradeship in many a hard fight.
But Clarendon, faithful friend of the Church as he was, did not always see eye to eye with
ecclesiastics. We have seen how often and how severely he could criticize them; and his sympathy
with their general object did not always commend to him their methods. His doubts might not
always lead him to assume an attitude of open and direct opposition. Deliberate abstention
might be just as effective, and was less liable to be misunderstood by the friends of the Church.
As a fact, in this case Clarendon was absent from the debates owing to his persistent enemy,
the gout. He expresses no opinion adverse or otherwise upon the Act, of which he omits to make
any mention. This sufficiently indicates his attitude towards it; and his own closest political
ally, Southampton, offered direct opposition to the Bill in the Lords. Whatever his loyalty
to the Church, Southampton declared, he could take no oath to pledge himself against any alteration,
which he might even "see cause to endeavour."

We need have little doubt as to which way Clarendon's sympathies went in the dispute between
his two old friends. But indeed the passing of the Bill depended upon no individual views and
upon the action of no Minister. The House of Commons was more Royalist than the King--more
orthodox than the Church. Charles was finding out now what he was to find out more surely as
time went on, that the bull-headed obstinacy of his friends might be quite as troublesome as
the intrigues and plottings of his foes. It would have been dangerous either for King or Minister
to resist the impetuosity of Parliamentary intolerance. We cannot assume sympathy on Clarendon's
part with these exaggerations of loyalty to the Church, from his general commendation of the
Parliament at Oxford, and its legislation as a whole. It had, he tells us, "preserved that
excellent harmony that the King had proposed." "Never Parliament so entirely sympathized with
his Majesty;" "It passed more Acts for his honour and security than any other had ever done
in so short a session." All this was strictly true; and that Parliament doubtless did not lose
favour in Clarendon's eyes, because it met at Oxford, and amidst those congenial surroundings
which reminded him of the old days, and the old fights amongst comrades whose aims were purer,
and their hearts higher, than the actors on the present stage. Clarendon might, however, be
fully persuaded of the honest aims of the Parliamentary Cavaliers, without approving all their
methods or being blind to the danger these methods involved.

We have now to turn to another aspect of the work of this session, which concerned Clarendon
much more directly, and which aroused in him not mere doubts of its expediency, but direct
and deeply-felt conviction of its pernicious tendency. It is a matter which it is worth examining
with some care, because it struck at Clarendon's fundamental theory of administration, and
aroused in him an antipathy which may easily be misunderstood if we do not apprehend exactly
what it involved.

In no sphere of administration did more difficult problems emerge after the Restoration than
in that of Finance. It was then, as it always must be, the pivot upon which all constitutional
questions turned; and it was this which had given to Parliament the lever by which the monarchy
had been overturned. When the Restoration took place, it was natural that some of the older
usages in regard to finance should be revived. Cromwell had dictated their course to those
feeble figments of Parliamentary representation which he had allowed to exist, and had crushed
out any financial liberties which they might be supposed to possess. A regular system of assessment,
by the quarter or the month, had been laid upon the counties. The real responsibility for this
had rested with local functionaries acting under the direct orders of the executive; and its
regularity caused it to be submitted to without resistance. Excise had been established, as
we have seen, during the Civil War, as a temporary expedient, destined to be permanent; and
any sudden alteration of this would have led to financial confusion. The old system of subsidies,
of which a certain number were voted according to the exigencies of the time, and the power
of the Government to influence Parliament, had been abandoned. When the Restoration came, these
subsidies were for a while resumed. But at the same time a regular revenue of £1,200,000 was
granted to the Crown, and provision was supposed to be made for it by assigning certain taxes,
and the produce of the Excise, for the purpose. But this was found to be inadequate to realize
the stated income, and that income was found inadequate to meet the increasing expenditure,
especially when the defence of England's commercial interests had to be maintained by a large
and costly fleet. When the enormous and unprecedented grant of £2,500,000 was made to the Crown
for the Dutch war, it was provided that it should be realized, not by the old method of subsidies,
but by twelve quarterly assessments extending over three years. Clarendon's aim was by no means
to place the Crown in a position of financial irresponsibility. He realized that Parliament
had a place in the Constitution as well as the Crown, and had no desire to minimize the financial
independence of Parliament, or to free the Crown from the necessity of regular resort to Parliament
for such special and extraordinary grants as might be necessary. But he thought that the Crown
should be provided with a regular revenue to meet ordinary expenses; and that it should be
required to apply to Parliament only for any increase of that revenue if special exigencies
should arise. But the revenue, so granted, should belong to the Crown, which should be free
to administer it according to the judgment of the Ministers of the Crown. Parliament possessed
the prerogative of making the grant, and thereby of imposing conditions upon it. But once made,
the Ministers of the Crown were to be responsible for its application. Any maladministration
would be subject of punishment by the Crown, or, if need be, of impeachment by the Parliament.

The abandonment of the system of subsidies almost necessarily led to another far-reaching change.
Separate subsidies had formerly been granted by Parliament in respect of the nation, and by
Convocation in respect of the Church. The right of making independent grants was a doubtful
privilege for the Church, and would, had it continued, have caused endless confusion to the
Exchequer. It was abandoned by consent. No statute abolished it. It was an old usage, but rested
upon little more than usage; and it was abolished, once and for all, not by statute, but by
arrangement between Sheldon and the leaders of the Church, on the one hand, and Clarendon and
Southampton on the other. It was an instance of the abandonment of an ancient principle, sanctioned
by the usage of centuries and intimately bound up with the relations between Church and State,
by no action of the legislature, but solely by the action of the Crown. At the same time, by
an almost more startling extension of the prerogative, the clergy were compensated by being
allowed to take part in the election of Parliamentary representatives.

The method by which the grants given by Parliament could be made available for national expenditure
had been found easy and convenient. For this purpose the help of the bankers, who were generally
goldsmiths of high standing, was invoked. Clarendon gives us a detailed account of the usage.
Half a dozen of the leading monied men of the city were summoned to the council chamber. They
knew the amount of grant made by Parliament, and were asked to what extent they were prepared
to make advances upon this amount. They did so in reliance upon the faith of the King and the
Lord Treasurer, and upon the certainty that any failure to fulfil its obligations on the part
of the Exchequer would inevitably lead to national loss of credit, and consequent bankruptcy.
If the current rate of interest was 6 per cent., they advanced the money at 8 per cent., and
counted on the 2 per cent. to recoup them. Clarendon thought the rate fair, and found the method
eminently convenient. But the bankers relied solely upon the good faith and prudence of the
Minister. There was nothing to prevent the King making an assignment of the revenue, as it
came in, to purposes other than the reimbursement of the bankers. The only guarantee against
this was the good faith of the responsible Minister and the certainty that the Crown must submit
its case to Parliament should the need of further grant arise. The King had to adapt his expenditure
to his revenue; but the application of revenue to any particular branch of the expenditure
was, in Clarendon's view, a matter for himself and his responsible Ministers.

On more than one occasion in the past grants from Parliament had been expressly assigned to
specific purposes, and such an arrangement had unquestionably much to commend it. But a long
time often intervened between the making of a grant and the realization of revenue. Money had
to be procured at once, and before the tax yielded revenue new needs had arisen, and new expenditure
had to be incurred. The system of appropriating supplies would undoubtedly make the financial
administration more mechanical, circumscribe the responsibility of Ministers, and cripple the
power of the Crown in applying revenue towards pressing objects. Unforeseen savings--though
these, indeed, were not an item of much importance in the financial administration of Charles's
reign--could not, under such a system, be applied to new exigencies without a further warrant
from Parliament. The whole system of appropriation, however defensible on the modern maxims
of sound finance, was inconvenient in working, and tended to increase the dependence of the
Crown on Parliament, and to diminish at once the discretion and the responsibility of Ministers
of the Crown.

It was during the Parliament at Oxford in 1665 that this fundamental change in the financial
system was pressed forward by the personal jealousy of that clique at Court which sought the
ruin of Southampton and Clarendon. Specious arguments could easily be brought forward against
the greed and extortion of the bankers, who were realizing fortunes by the loose financial
administration which made the King's revenue pass through their hands, and subjected it to
a heavy toll upon which they throve. Once revenue was assigned to a specific object, the credit
of the Crown, it was alleged, would be enormously enhanced, and it would be perfectly easy
to establish a State bank, on the model of that in Amsterdam, which would be a perennial source
from which money might be drawn as required. And this facility of supply would be joined with
purity of financial administration; Parliament would know exactly what was done with the money
that it voted; leakages would be stopped, and peculation would cease to be possible.

The arguments were at once specious and inviting. But in truth the real motives which prompted
the new proposals were jealousy of Southampton and Clarendon and personal ambition. The prime
mover was Sir George Downing, that turbulent and versatile political adventurer, who had run
through the whole gamut of political tergiversation, and who, as envoy to Holland, had long
worried Clarendon by the pertinacity with which he had provoked the jealousy of the Dutch and
had done all in his power to precipitate the war. He had contrived to secure appointment as
one of the Tellers of the Exchequer, was in close confederacy with Bennet, now Lord Arlington,
and was scheming with him to oust the influence of the Chancellor and the Treasurer. His perquisites,
as Teller of the Exchequer, were lessened by the assignment of taxes to the bankers in return
for their advances, and as the proceeds of the taxes did not pass through the Exchequer, the
percentage to the Tellers was thereby diminished. The position of Lord Southampton was difficult
to assail. "His reputation was so great, his wisdom so unquestionable, and his integrity so
confessed, that they knew in neither of those points he could be impeached." [Footnote: Life,
iii. 2.] The King was still faithful to his Treasurer, and insinuations as to his increasing
age and unfitness for active business did not shake his confidence. But Southampton's enemies
were strengthened by the support of Ashley, who, though his advancement was due to his relationship
to Southampton by marriage, was beginning to feel that he might well rid himself of the ladder
by which he had climbed, and that he himself would be a very competent Treasurer. It was only
when he perceived that his confederates might not aid this ambition that he became more lukewarm
in his support of their schemes.

There was at least one convenience in the present system. The facile humour of the King led
him to assign revenues to suitors who had no very creditable claims to reward. It was convenient
to him to shift to the Chancellor and the Treasurer the odium of refusing to endorse these
grants. Their watchful jealousy against inroads upon the national resources increased the number
of their enemies; but it saved the King from the irksome burden of refusal. It was speciously
urged against this that the root of all the financial difficulties was

"the unlimited power of the Lord Treasurer, that no money could issue out without his particular
direction, and all money was paid upon no other rules than his order; so that, let the King
want as much as was possible, no money could be paid by him without the Treasurer's warrant."
[Footnote: Life, iii. 5.]

It was a persuasive argument for Charles's ears. The popular pretence went only a little way.
The real aim--and this it was that attracted the King-- was that personal authority should
be eliminated, and that he should no longer be subject to the galling supervision of the two
Ministers, whose bull-dog honesty was so often inconvenient. Meanwhile the minds of the members
of the House were cunningly prepared for the reception of the new design, by invectives against
the bankers. They were "cheats, bloodsuckers, extortioners." Their enemies "would have them
looked upon as the causes of all the King's necessities and of the want of monies throughout
the kingdom." [Footnote: Ibid., p. 7.]

When the Bill for supply was brought in by the Solicitor-General, Downing found his opportunity.
He proposed a proviso, the object of which was "to make all the money that was to be raised
by the Bill to be applied only to those ends to which it was given, and to no other purpose
whatsoever, by what authority soever." The restrictions thus imposed upon the royal authority
were viewed with jealousy by many, who found in them a renewal of that financial supremacy
of the Commons which had been the symptom of the approach of the rebellion. Cromwell, it was
pointed out, had himself seen the inconvenience of such restrictions, and had refused to submit
to them. The proviso would have been defeated, had not Downing assured the Solicitor-General
that the proviso was proposed by the King's own direction. After the House had risen, the King
sent for the Solicitor- General, and "forbade him any more to oppose that proviso, for that
it was much for his service." [Footnote: Ibid., p. 11.] He refused to listen to any remonstrances.
"He would bear the inconveniences which would ensue upon his own account, for the benefits
which would accrue." Downing took care to strengthen these favourable resolutions of the King.
"He would make his Exchequer the best and the greatest bank in Europe, where all Europe would,
when it was once understood, pay in their money for the certain profit it would yield, and
the indubitable certainty that they should receive their money." He would, he assured the King,
"erect the King's Exchequer into the same degree of credit that the Bank of Amsterdam stood
upon." He forgot to tell the King that such credit could only be established by eliminating
the personal influence and authority of the Crown over finance. That was no doubt a change
which must come. But it formed no part of Charles's calculation, and it was opposed to Clarendon's
theory of monarchy. Clarendon states the case with precision. Downing propounded his scheme

"without weighing that the security for monies so deposited in banks (such as that of Amsterdam)
is the republic itself, which must expire before that security can fail; which can never be
depended on in a monarchy, where the monarch's sole word can cancel all those formal provisions
which can be made." [Footnote: Life, iii. 13.]

Anxious as he was for financial purity and for a due interdependence of King and Parliament,
Clarendon was not disposed to part with this prerogative of the Crown. Downing and his allies
were equally aware that to abandon it was no part of Charles's thoughts. It would be absurd
to argue back from later days when such a claim on the part of the Crown was a thing of the
past. The essence of the plan, which made it palatable to the King and the object of all Downing's
scheming, was that "it was to new-model the whole Government of the country, in which the King
resolved to have no more superior officers." The power of these superior officers was an incubus
of which Charles longed to rid himself.

The Bill passed the House of Commons, and was brought to the Lords. Such Bills, says Clarendon
in an interesting passage, [Footnote: Life, iii. 13.] "seldom stay long with the Lords."

"Of custom, which they call privilege, they are first begun in the House of Commons, where
they endure long deliberation, and when they are adjusted there, they seem to pass through
the House of Peers with the reading twice and formal commitment, in which any alterations are
very rarely made, except in any impositions which are laid upon their (i.e. the Lords') own
persons." "The same endorsement that is sent up by the Commons is usually the Bill itself that
is presented to the King for his royal assent."

It is to be observed that Clarendon is speaking of custom only, not of right; and he is careful
to add that such Bills are "no more valid without their (the Lords') consent than without that
of the other (the Commons); and they may alter any clause in them that they do not think for
the good of the people." Only "the Lords use not to put any stop on the passage of such Bills,
much less diminish what is offered by them to the King."

But in spite of such usage, the new provisions of the Bill so alarmed those in the House of
Lords who understood the matter, as to prompt them to an alteration. Both the Chancellor and
the Treasurer were confined by illness, and neither of them had received notice of the Bill.
It was only when their colleagues in the House of Lords informed them of its purport that they
resolved to resist what they believed to be a deadly blow to the power of the Crown, albeit
dealt with the sanction and active approval of the King.

By this time Ashley, who, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, found his own prerogatives threatened,
had definitely ranged himself against those with whom he had been associated in plotting against
Clarendon and Southampton. His fertile wit supplied new arguments, and helped him to alarm
the King. Charles

"was contented that the matter should be debated in his presence; and because the Chancellor
was in his bed, thought his chamber to be the fittest place for the consultation; and the Lord
Treasurer, though indisposed and apprehensive of the gout, could yet use his feet, and was
very willing to attend his Majesty there, without the least imagining that he was aimed at."

Clarendon could no longer rely upon an effective ally in his aged colleague.

Besides the King and the Duke of York and the two chief Ministers there were present Ashley,
Arlington, and Coventry. The law officers were there to advise; and Downing was admitted that
he might answer the objections to his scheme. Ashley began the discussion by inveighing against
the proviso. The King checked this "by declaring that whatsoever had been done in the whole
transaction of it had been with his privity and approbation, and the whole blame must be laid
to his own charge, who, it seems, was like to suffer most by it." Whatever the tendency of
the proviso, it is clear that such action made an end of all real ministerial responsibility,
if the chief Ministers of the Crown were to find their authority undermined by schemes which
the King might concoct with inferior officers. The appropriation of supplies might be a step
towards financial control; but it was bought at a heavy cost if it was to be achieved by backstairs
influence against the advice of the King's responsible advisers. Clarendon was not prepared
to accept what he believed to be a breach of the Crown's constitutional prerogative; but, compared
with his master, he had travelled far on the road towards constitutional monarchy. Charles's
nonchalant surrender of the powers of the Crown was carried out with cynical disregard of all
the principles of the constitution.

But the King did not refuse to admit the force of some of the adverse arguments. He confessed
"that they had given some reasons against it which he had not thought of, and which in truth
he could not answer," and he was waiting to hear it argued further. The first objection was
its novelty. The new proviso would form a dangerous precedent, which would hereafter appear
in every Bill. The King would not be "master of his own money, nor the Ministers of his revenue
be able to assign monies to meet any casual expenses." The authority of the Treasurer and the
Chancellor of the Exchequer must be vested in the Tellers of the Exchequer, who were subordinate
officers. Clarendon's comment upon this is characteristic of his best vein of grave sarcasm.

"The King had in his nature so little reverence for antiquity, and did in truth so much contemn
old orders, forms, and institutions, that the objections of novelty rather advanced than obstructed
any proposition. He was a great lover of new inventions, and thought them the effects of wit
and spirit, and fit to control the superstitious observation of the dictates of our ancestors;
so that objection made little impression."

Many sore trials to his patience have lent point and acid to Clarendon's satirical picture
of a master, whose cynicism made him fancy that blind pursuit of novelty sat well upon the
occupant of a throne that rested chiefly upon ancient usage, and upon the glamour of reverence
which that usage brought.

The overpowering temptation to the King was the chimera of a bank which, it was represented,
would be created by this new proviso. It was in vain that Clarendon showed that the hope was
an empty one; that heavy interest would have to be paid for advances; that good husbandry,
and that alone, could restore order to the finances. Downing was an adept in specious argument.
"He wrapped himself up, according to his custom, in a mist of words that nobody could see light
in, but they who by often hearing the same chat thought they understood it."

To the King's credit it must be counted that he was not indifferent to the injustice involved
to the bankers, who had already advanced large sums, on the credit of the King and his Minister,
for which, under the new proviso, they could receive no reimbursement, and might thus be ruined.
That and the other arguments impressed him. He went so far as to "wish that the matter had
been better consulted," and confessed that Downing "had not answered many of the objections."
But the balance of personal convenience, and the facilities which Downing lavishly promised,
in the end carried the day. That vein of obstinacy, which was entwined with the love of ease
in Charles, determined him to adopt an expedient, hazardous, indeed, but which promised some
hope of financial fruit, and had been propounded on the King's own orders. Perhaps Clarendon
himself contributed to this result by the natural, but imprudent, outbreak of indignation which
moved him in the King's own presence to scold Downing in no measured terms. To do so was almost
the same as to administer the scolding to the King himself; and even a temper so easy as that
of Charles could hardly have taken such an outburst in good part.

"It was impossible," Clarendon told Downing, "for the King to be well served whilst fellows
of his condition were admitted to speak as much as they had a mind to; and that, in the best
times, such presumptions had been punished with imprisonment by the Lords of the Council without
the King taking notice of it."

Clarendon himself seems to have felt that such an utterance, in the presence of the King, to
one whom the King declared to have acted on his orders, was a straining of courtly etiquette
which required some apology. It was uttered, he tells us, in the extremity of bodily pain;
and he thought "it did not exceed the privilege and the dignity of the place he held." Clarendon
certainly set himself no very strict bonds of courtliness in the freedom of his utterances
to his King. On this particular occasion his plain speaking seems to have rankled.

What, then, was the real meaning of this change, so bitterly resented by Clarendon, and eventually
adopted in the teeth of his advice by Parliament and King? It is absurd to suppose that any
consuming desire for financial exactitude prompted the action of Downing, of Arlington, or
of Coventry. No doubt they anticipated one necessary result of full Parliamentary control over
finance, in the principle of appropriation. But what they really desired was to eliminate the
discretion, and thereby the control over expenditure, which was exercised by the great officers
of State. That also was bound to come. The rapidly increasing range of administration and of
expenditure must inevitably have substituted routine rules and fixed practice for the personal
intervention, and the exercise of personal authority, by those great officers of State. But
Clarendon was loth to part with this personal authority; he distrusted, with good reason, the
honesty and the independence of the inferior officials into whose hands the administration
of finance was intended to pass, and who could easily, under the cover of routine practice,
which relieved them from the intervention of their superiors, conceal a system of malversation.
The change, indeed, embodied in its essentials the passing of authority from the great responsible
officers to a bureaucracy. Its full results could not yet be seen. Its dangers have since then
been prevented, and it is to be hoped they may not again arise. But Clarendon saw in the change
the reversal of all former traditions; the diminishing of responsibility in the high officers
and the substitution for them of a lower grade of petty officials, shielded by the great edifice
of rules of routine in which they become experts, and, as such, are unassailable. It was a
change which was bound to come. It was impossible that the vast machine of national finance
could be guided by rules laid down for each case by a responsible Minister. The change was
none the less a revolution, and was not more welcome to Clarendon, in that it was carried out
by the scheming of an ambitious underling, working upon the facile temper of the King, who
thus hoped to have an ampler supply of revenue, freed from the control of Ministers who could
curb his extravagance.

The episode produced a marked increase of the estrangement between the King and the Minister
who had served him so well. Clarendon's fierce denunciation of Downing's presumption rankled
in Charles's memory, and those about him took care that it should not be smoothed over. "Whatever
else was natural to wit sharpened with malice to suggest upon such an argument, they enforced
with warmth, that they desired might be taken for zeal for his service and dignity, which was
prostituted by those presumptions of the Chancellor." [Footnote: Life, iii. 24.] Clarendon
soon learned the truth from the changed demeanour of the King. At first he was at a loss to
explain this; but Charles soon spoke in terms that could not be mistaken, and expressed "a
great resentment of it," as an unpardonable insult. "And all this," adds Clarendon, "in a choler
very unnatural to him, which exceedingly troubled the Chancellor and made him more discern,
though he had evidence enough of it before, that he stood upon very slippery ground." [Footnote:
Life, iii. 25.] It was no part of Clarendon's character to take such a rebuke in silence or
to leave it to pass gradually from the mind of the King. His conscience, he said, had not reproached
him; but since his Majesty thought his behaviour so bad, "he must and did believe he had committed
a great fault, for which he did humbly ask his pardon." It was impossible, he said, that any
one could believe that he sought to keep the King from a clear view of his own affairs; and
none knew better than his Majesty how earnestly he had striven "that his Majesty might never
set his hand to anything before he fully understood it upon such references and reports as,
according to the nature of the business, were to be for his full information." That innate
reverence for the power of the Crown, which was Clarendon's guiding principle, could hardly
have been united with sharper sarcasm upon the business methods of the King.

To outward seeming the feeling of offence was removed. Charles had no wish to resume the argument,
and forbade him to believe "that it was or could be in any man's power to make him suspect
his affection or integrity to his service." He covered any resentment he might feel with that
dissimulation of which he was so great a master; and soon after gave an earnest of his continued
good-will by promoting Clarendon's kinsman, Dr. Hyde, to the Bishopric of Salisbury. "Nor was
his credit with the King thought to be lessened by anybody but himself, who knew more to that
purpose than other people could do." It may be doubted whether some of Charles's familiars
did not guess more shrewdly than Clarendon supposed. The gossip of Pepys lets us know that
the tongues of talebearers were not silent.

CHAPTER XXIII

DECAY OF CLARENDON'S INFLUENCE

We must still look backwards a little in tracing the accumulating effect of friction, of jealousy,
and of slander, in sapping the power of Clarendon.

He had not long to wait to see how adroit his many enemies were in twisting to his disadvantage
any irritation which Charles might feel. The state of public affairs was sufficiently overclouded
to make his anxieties in any case very great. The war still dragged on its weary course (we
are now dealing with a period anterior to the peace already described), with its heavy burden
of expense and its ever-recurring disasters, relieved only by occasional success. The combined
calamity of the Fire and the Plague increased the general depression, paralyzed trade, and
made the burden of taxation more severe. Repressive measures, if they had checked rebellion,
had left a troubled background of smouldering discontent, and were sowing the seeds of future
opposition to the Crown and to the Church. The temper of the House of Commons, however pronounced
its adhesion to the Cavalier party, was stubborn and perverse; and stubbornness and perversity
are never so provoking in politics as when they are united with an exaggeration of one's own
opinion. The House resented almost with the tone and in the spirit of the Long Parliament,
the dictation--and Clarendon's best friends must admit that his methods were apt to be dictatorial--of
a Minister who saw that its exaggerated Royalism might be itself a danger to the Crown, and
who was faithful to a theory of the constitution which imposed limits at once upon King and
upon Parliament. Clarendon belonged to an older generation, and was unwilling to trim his sails
to suit the newer fashions. His pedantic constitutionalism--we are all apt to think that notions
which will not adopt themselves to our own practice are pedantic--became unpalatable at once
to King and Parliament. He was not compliant enough to suit the prejudices of the stalwart
Cavaliers; he had no weapons wherewith to fight courtiers, such as Buckingham, who knew how
to make friends for themselves amongst those who condemned the Court and all connected with
it. It was the growing estrangement between him and the House of Commons that added force to
the schemes of his enemies.

Clarendon saw two symptoms of danger--in the attempts to detach from him his most trusted friends
and allies, and in the sure and gradual advancement of those who were his sworn foes. His oldest
and most trusted comrade--from whom death was soon to part him--was the Treasurer, Lord Southampton.
Their friendship was the growth of years. In the earliest days of the Civil war, Southampton,
who had avoided, before its outbreak, all connection with the Court, had joined the King's
party with some misgiving, but had brought to it the weight of unblemished character and great
debating power. He had striven, even against the inclination of the King, to advance proposals
for a treaty with Parliament; and his loyalty did not blind him to the hopelessness of the
struggle, or to what seemed to him defects in the Royalist cause. Too proud to be a courtier,
and too sensible of the responsibility of great lineage and high station to be a rebel, his
aim was to steer a moderate course. In temper, as well as in political views, he and Clarendon
were closely united; and their mutual confidence continued unbroken after the Restoration.
Clarendon's enemies found a convenient opportunity for kindling in the mind of Southampton
some petty offence, in the fact that Clarendon, at the instance of the Duke of York and his
daughter, the Duchess, had done something to promote the claims to a Court appointment of a
candidate other than that favoured by Southampton. [Footnote: The post was one about the Court
of the Queen, and the two claimants were the son of Lord Montague, favoured by the Duke and
Duchess; and Robert Spencer, a relative of the Earl of Southampton. Personally, Clarendon preferred
the latter; but he had put forward the name of the other at the solicitation of the Duke and
his daughter without much consideration, and without knowing that any other claimant was in
the field.] The matter was a trumpery one; but the irritation was fanned by those who were
eager to break the alliance of the older statesmen. Southampton was a man who asked for few
favours, and was all the more incensed when he was made to understand that his old friend had
stood in his way, when for once he had stooped to make an application. Clarendon soon discerned
his old friend's ill-will, and took his usual course of bringing it speedily to a clear issue.
His own temper was hot, and for a time "he grew out of humour too, and thought himself unworthily
suspected." But he soon thought better of it, and bluntly told the Treasurer that "it should
not be in his power to break friendship with him, to gratify the humour of other people, without
letting him know what the matter was." The explanation was given; and mutual confidence was
soon restored between the two old allies. But Clarendon saw in the incident new evidence of
the sordid tricks that sought to entangle him in the petty jealousy of rival cliques. "They
who had contrived this device entered into a new confederacy, how they might first remove the
Treasurer, which would facilitate the pulling the Chancellor down." [Footnote: Life, ii. 454.]
Clarendon found a sign of danger even more alarming in the gradual advancement of those who
were pledged to his enemies, and who became their most useful tools. There was none whose influence,
in this or in other respects, was more baneful to Clarendon than the Duke of York. The incidents
of the Duke's first connection with his family were amongst his bitterest memories; and although
he never failed to show to his son- in-law the respect due to the brother of the King, yet
Clarendon found in him a perpetual obstacle to his plans, an intriguer whose selfish aims and
jealous temper ever engendered fresh dissensions at Court, and a sullen bigot whose moroseness
was redeemed by none of his brother's easy suavity of manner. The Duke's pride did not permit
him openly to desert the interests of his father-in-law or to range himself with Clarendon's
enemies. But his blundering tactlessness, his easily wounded vanity, and his insatiable appetite
for power, often led him to give encouragement to those whose influence Clarendon knew to be
pernicious. One of these was Sir William Coventry, against whom Clarendon, as we have already
seen, cherished an invincible dislike, all the more marked because he had known and reverenced
his father, the former Chancellor. He knew Coventry's restless ambition and how capable he
was by boldness, by ability in debate, and by adroitness in expedient, to supply the defects
of the stolid and slow intrigue of his patron, Arlington. Coventry had managed to gain the
confidence of the Duke and to be his trusted agent in the affairs of the navy, where the Duke,
as Lord High Admiral, was supreme; and Clarendon knew that Coventry's influence boded no good
to the moderate policy which it was his own chief aim to pursue. It was by the Duke's solicitation
that Coventry now obtained the position of Privy Councillor, and was admitted to the inner
Cabinet, where no modesty prevented him from opposing Clarendon at once in internal affairs
and in foreign policy. An opportunity soon offered itself to Coventry for proving his influence
and inflicting a deadly blow upon Sandwich, whose placid temper and essential loyalty had made
him one of Clarendon's chosen friends. At first Coventry endeavoured vainly to insinuate doubts
of Sandwich's capacity as a naval commander; and when he failed there he soon found another
means of attack. [Footnote: This incident has already been briefly alluded to in connection
with the progress of the war. See above, p. 202.] Sandwich had, with much rashness and in too
ready compliance with the laxity which prevailed in matters of public finance, yielded to the
urgency of some of his flag officers, and permitted the sale of some East India prizes captured
from the Dutch, in order to meet long-standing arrears of pay due to his officers. He had referred
the matter to the King, through the Vice- Chamberlain, but, with singular carelessness, carried
the transaction through before he had received the royal approval. This gave Coventry just
the chance that he desired. Sandwich's action was a clear infringement of the prerogative of
the Duke as Lord High Admiral, through whom alone any such favour could be conferred. Albemarle,
incensed at what appeared a flagrant breach of military discipline, became a powerful adherent
of Sandwich's enemies. Sandwich's own money difficulties were no secret, and he himself was
to benefit by the bounty, which he shared with his flag officers, and against which the rest
of the fleet was murmuring. He saw too late the error that he had committed, and made his humble
apologies to the King and the Duke. But though he was able to appease their anger, the evil
to his own reputation was done, and his enemies were in no mood to relieve him of it. Clarendon
could not prevent his being deprived of his naval command. Already Sandwich had incurred the
jealousy of the old Cavaliers, who grudged to one, once Cromwell's officer, the rewards which
had not come to their earlier loyalty. All that Clarendon could do was to soften Sandwich's
fall by procuring his appointment as ambassador to Spain. The ablest of Charles's naval commanders
was sacrificed because of what, in the lax financial morality of the day, seemed only an error
of judgment; and the direction of naval affairs was thus placed almost entirely in the hands
of Coventry, who, as representing the Duke, could issue commands and thwart the policy of the
King's Ministers.

The same restless faction which had sought to sow dissension between the Chancellor and the
Treasurer, were not deterred, by failure, from new efforts to break the influence of these
two older Ministers. They were busy gathering new recruits to their faction and insinuating
them into offices of trust; and now they thought they could undermine the fort by driving Southampton
into the resignation of his office. His character and rank stood too high to make him an easy
victim, or to encourage them to any open attack. But they could suggest that his powers were
waning; that he was no longer equal to the task of guiding the finances of the nation; that
he was ruled by subordinates; and that consideration for his age would make it only reasonable
to relieve him of an irksome burden. They knew that little persuasion was required to bring
about his resignation of a post which duty rather than inclination made him retain; and they
guessed, with good reason, that it was Clarendon's advice that chiefly kept Southampton in office.

The procedure followed the usual course. First, Charles was persuaded that his aged Treasurer
was no longer equal to the duties of his office. It was easy to suggest to him that his business
would move more smoothly if the pedantic methods, the vigilant care, and the cumbrous and dilatory
processes of the Lord Treasurer's office were simplified and expedited. When he was duly impressed,
the King had then to be brought to discharge the ungracious task of conveying to the Chancellor
the fact that the King would welcome the Treasurer's relinquishment of his office. To do him
justice, Charles did not relish the part he was compelled to play. Even his selfishness could
not cloak its ugly ingratitude, and it suited ill with his easy temper to be the medium of
such an ungracious message. Nor was it quite compatible with that royal dignity, which he did
not always cast aside, to be made the spokesman, to his more serious Minister, of a conspiracy
not unlike that of unruly schoolboys. The King knew by experience that, master though he was,
he could still be made uncomfortable by hearing stern and plain truths, even in the ceremonious
diction in which his Chancellor knew how to clothe them.

The King began the interview--somewhat hypocritically--by "enlarging in a great commendation
of the Treasurer." But in spite of all his merits Southampton "did not understand the mystery
of that place, nor could his nature go through with the necessary obligations of it." His ill-health
caused delay and murmuring in regard to urgent business. His secretary [Footnote: Sir Philip
Warwick was born in Westminster in 1609, and was employed before the Civil War, in the service
of Lord Goring, and, afterwards, of Bishop Juxon. He acted as Secretary to the King during
the Conference at Newport, in 1648. After the Restoration, he became Secretary to the Treasury
under Lord Southampton, and had all the qualities of an excellent civil servant, virtually
controlling the department under its ministerial head. His Memoirs are not of first-rate importance,
but contain some good accounts of engagements in the war, and of incidents in the life of the
King. He survived till 1683, and won the fervent admiration of that other worthy official,
Pepys.] virtually discharged the work of the office--an estimable and honest man, no doubt,
but not equal to the position of Lord Treasurer. The Treasurer's "understanding was too fine
for such gross matters as the office must be conversant about, and if his want of health did
not hinder him, his genius did not carry him that way." Nothing could be further from the King's
thoughts than to disoblige so faithful a servant; but perhaps he would not be unwilling to
go, and perhaps the Chancellor would do the King the singular service of suggesting it to him.

The first answer of Clarendon in reply to this not very palatable speech was to ask whom the
King proposed to make Treasurer in Southampton's place? He would, said the King, never have
another Treasurer, but would exercise the office by Commissioners. Once more the same insuperable
prejudice, which Clarendon had felt against the system involved in the Appropriation Clause,
was stirred in him. He saw precisely the same motives at work, involving precisely the same
dangers. Commissioners might be all very well in Cromwell's days. He needed no Treasurer, and
could take care, with an army at his back, that Commissioners would not prove troublesome.
But the plan suited ill with monarchical principles. The King should have his Lord Treasurer,
of standing and of honour sufficient to ensure sound administration and compel respect. Commissioners,
as Clarendon discerned clearly, would be bad servants and dangerous masters. Clarendon might
be fighting a forlorn hope against the growing forces of officialdom; but his dislike was honest,
and his discernment of the future was correct.

But he had other reasons to urge against the slur which it was proposed to throw upon his old
friend.

"Most humbly and with much earnestness he besought his Majesty seriously to reflect what an
ill savour it would have over the whole kingdom, at this time of a war with at least two powerful
enemies abroad together, in so great discontent and jealousy at home, and when the Court was
in no great reputation with the people, to remove a person, the most loved and reverenced for
his most exemplary fidelity and wisdom, who had deserved as much from his blessed father and
himself as a subject can do from his prince, a nobleman of the best quality, the best allied
and the best beloved; to remove at such a time such a person, and with such circumstances,
from his counsels and his trust."

The King was not of a mould to resist plain speaking like this, and when not supported by the
presence of those who made him their tool and instrument, he seldom managed to make way against
the vehemence of Clarendon's rebukes. It could hardly be pleasant for a monarch to be told
that what he designs is base ingratitude; that his throne is in danger; the reputation of his
Court in evil savour; that both require such support as they may be able to get from men of
reverence and station, and that he would be mad to alienate any support from such men that
may be vouchsafed to him; yet this was the plain meaning of Clarendon's words. But Charles
hesitated to go back, repulsed, to those who had made him their mouthpiece. He remained "rather
moved and troubled than convinced." But fortunately Clarendon found an unexpected ally in the
Duke of York, who had joined the King and himself at the interview, with the intention, it
appears, of supporting the King's purpose. To him Clarendon restated his arguments, and urged
him to do the best service to the King his brother "by dissuading him from a course that would
prove so mischievous to him." For this once, the Duke was converted to Clarendon's view, and
"prevailed with the King to lay aside the thought of it." [Footnote: Charles not rarely showed
a respect for his brother's opinion which was not founded upon any high estimate of his abilities.
Clarendon himself remarks this when commenting upon the failure of any attempt to arouse jealousy
between the brothers. Charles, he says, "had a just affection for him, and a confidence in
him, without thinking better of his natural parts than he thought there was just cause for;
and yet, which made it the more wondered at, he did often depart, in matters of the highest
moment, from his own judgment to comply with his brother" (Life, iii. 62).] Once more the Court
conspirators were baulked of their purpose. They could press the King no further; but

"only made so much use of their want of success by presenting to his Majesty his irresoluteness,
which made the Chancellor still impose upon him, that the King did not think the better of
the Chancellor or the Treasurer for his receding at that time from prosecuting what he had
so positively resolved to have done." He could only promise "to be firmer to his next determination."

Between the reproaches of the conspirators of the Court and the scoldings of the stern Chancellor,
the King plays no very dignified figure. Even Charles's easy humour could not but owe a grudge
to one who so often rated him like a schoolboy in the solemn phrases of State ceremony.

The year 1666 opened on a prospect far from cheering either to the country or to those charged
with its administration. There were symptoms enough of actual and impending ills to make it
no hazardous prophecy for the astrologers to predict that it was to be "a year of dismal changes
and alterations throughout the world." [Footnote: Life, iii 39.] The war dragged on its weary
course, with what seemed to be but delusive hopes of settlement. Financial troubles were becoming
urgent, and the mood of Parliament, without being actually refractory, was stubborn and suspicious.
The Plague was still pressing with grievous heaviness, even though there were symptoms that
it was somewhat alleviated. Throughout the nation there was murmuring and discontent, at times
breaking out into active resistance to the law; and the Court was in increasingly worse odour
with the people. It aroused at once the anger of those whom its extravagance seemed to insult;
the disgust of those who had some respect for decency; and the contempt and bitter grief of
those who prized the honour of the Crown, and desired to maintain the loyalty of the nation.

Charles's disappointment of any hope of legitimate offspring seemed to dissipate any frail
purpose he had entertained of ordering his life and Court with more regard to the elementary
dictates of decency and decorum. The influence of Lady Castlemaine was supreme; and the grossness
of the palace atmosphere was made all the greater because his favourite mistress added the
character of procuress to that of courtesan.

Clarendon would fain have found some excuse for the degradation of the family to whose service
his life had been devoted. Apart from all political inclinations and all thoughts of personal
ambition, it is absolutely certain that what largely aroused in Clarendon that enthusiastic
loyalty which he felt for Charles I. was the consummate dignity of a pure life. Dignity as
well as purity were alike banished from the Court of Charles II., with the examples before
it of his own more open debauchery and of his brother's more morose viciousness, which was
rendered all the uglier by his sullen bigotry. With a discerning eye Clarendon read the prevailing
defects of the Stuart race--their proneness to succumb to flattery and vicious influence, and
then obstinately to sacrifice every good inclination to the acquired vice.

"They were too much inclined to like men at first sight, and did not love the conversation
of men of many more years than themselves, and thought age not only troublesome, but impertinent.
They did not love to deny, and less to strangers than to their friends; not out of bounty or
generosity, which was a flower that did never grow naturally in the heart of either of the
families, that of Stuart or of Bourbon, but out of an unskilfulness and defect in the countenance;
and when they prevailed with themselves to make some pause rather than to deny, importunity
removed all resolution." [Footnote: Life, iii. 63.]

It is a heavy indictment in the mouth of one who had felt its truth by bitter experience and
to whom its avowal caused the deepest pain.

The scandals of the Court touched Clarendon through his daughter, the Duchess of York. The
Duke was no model of connubial fidelity, and his lapses from virtue, if not so flagrant as
those of his brother, yet gave food enough for gossiping tongues. But ostensibly his married
life was fairly decorous, and against the Duchess no charges could be made. Her life, however,
did not escape the gibes of those who sought to attack her father through her, and the trust
which the Duke showed in her judgment roused their malice. They did their best to bring the
King to listen to their sarcasm on a married life which seemed to rebuke his own; and Clarendon
at the same time saw with regret that both his daughter and her husband partook in large measure
of the spirit of reckless expense which prevailed at Court. Dutiful as she was in other respects,
here her father's admonitions were of no effect. The Duke and she had formed their ideas of
the scale of expenditure necessary in the household of the heir apparent, from the usages of
the French Court. To those who saw in her only the daughter of one who, a few years ago, had
been but a Wiltshire squire, her assumption of almost royal state was a cause of petty malice,
and suggested the false pride of a family of obscure birth. To Clarendon it seemed but a necessary
insistence upon that respect which the prevailing tone of the Court rendered necessary. In
his eyes the danger lay, not in their insistence upon the usages of royal etiquette, but in
their extravagance; and he incurred some ill-will from her, as well as from her husband, by
his refusal to give his aid in securing for them a more ample revenue. The connection with
the royal family, which had been thrust upon Clarendon to his indignation and sorely against
his will, proved a new source of anxiety and dispeace.

It was on the first of September "in this dismal year of 1666," that the Great Fire burst out
that in a few days consumed two-thirds of London, comprising all the repositories of her wealth.
It added, to the other disasters weighing on the country, a stupendous disturbance of her commerce
at its very centre, and the plunging of the nation into one of those unthinking panics, which,
once indulged, so easily become habitual. The people were in no condition to face such a calamity
with the coolness that comes from native energy or the confidence inspired by trust in their
rulers. It seemed as if a judgment from heaven had fallen upon the nation; but it was received
with all the despair of craven superstition and with no thought of benefiting by the lessons
of tribulation. Angry and groundless accusations against foreigners and papists only added
to the general excitement, without stirring up any of the courage which makes brave men face
disaster. Public credit was shaken; commercial operations were stunned; wage-earners were thrown
out of employment; the forces of crime found themselves released even from those imperfect
bonds which then kept them in check. The King and his brother did, indeed, prove their courage
in danger and their readiness of expedient; and they were well helped in their efforts to cope
with the calamity by many of the leading nobility. But as a whole the visitation proved that
the nerves of the nation were sadly relaxed. Clarendon summarizes the progress of the fire
and the destruction wrought by it; but his most significant comments are those with which he
closes his narrative, telling how hopeless he had grown, in this, the last stage of his laborious
career:--"It was hoped and expected," he says, "that this prodigious and universal calamity,
for the effects of it covered the whole kingdom, would have made impression, and produced some
reformation in the licence of the Court; for as the pains the King had taken night and day
during the fire and the dangers he had exposed himself to, even for the saving the citizens'
goods, had been very notorious and in the mouths of all men, with good wishes and prayers for
him; so his Majesty had been heard during that time to speak with great piety and devotion
of the displeasure that God was provoked to. And no doubt the deep sense of it did raise many
good thoughts and purposes in his royal breast. But he was narrowly watched and looked to that
such melancholic thoughts might not long possess him, the consequence and effect whereof was
like to be more grievous than that of the fire itself; of which that loose company that was
too much cherished, even before it was extinguished, discoursed of as an argument for mirth
and wit, to describe the wildness of the confusion all people were in; in which the Scripture
itself was used with equal liberty when they could apply it to their profane purposes. And
Mr. May [Footnote: Baptist May (born in 1629) managed to ingratiate himself with Charles II.
in France, and became a favourite in the unsavoury position of "Court Pimp," as he is styled
by Pepys. He secured for his base services some grants of land about St. James's, and was one
of the lowest of a degraded gang. He sat occasionally in Parliament to discharge commissions
which no man of honour would have undertaken. He lived a despised life down to 1698.] presumed
to assure the King that this was the greatest blessing that God had ever conferred upon him,
his restoration only excepted; for the walls and gates being now burned and thrown down of
that rebellious city, which was always an enemy to the Crown, his Majesty would never suffer
them to repair and build them up again to be a bit in his mouth and a bridle upon his neck,
but would keep all open that his troops might enter upon them whenever he thought it necessary
for his service, there being no way to govern that rude multitude but by force." [Footnote:
Life, iii. 100.]

Such ribaldry was distasteful to the King, and for the moment he frowned upon it. But it wrought
a dire effect, as it spread beyond the purlieus of the palace. Liberty of criticism was as
easy to the rude multitude as to the witlings of the Court, and its effects, when it spread
to that multitude, were far more deadly. The King's judgment might condemn, but his facile
love of jesting made him inclined to listen to, the empty and sordid chatter of frivolity that
sounded through his Court. "Meanwhile," says Clarendon, "all men of virtue and sobriety, of
which there were very many in the King's family, were grieved and heartbroken with hearing
what they could not choose but hear, and seeing many things which they could not avoid seeing."
It is hard to say which is most worthy of contempt--the appalling cynicism that prompted such
scurrilities, or the amazing folly which mistook their vulgarity for wit.

But even although Charles, out of a seeming respect for his older and sounder counsellors,
might frown upon such irresponsible outbursts of bad taste, his scanty respect for the forms
of the constitution continued to be a source of deep regret to Clarendon. In the view of the
Chancellor, the Privy Council was the pivot of the constitution.

"By the constitution of the kingdom," he says, [Footnote: Life, iii. 103] "and the very laws
and customs of the nation, as the Privy Council and every member of it is of the King's sole
choice and election of him to that trust, so the body of it is the most sacred, and hath the
greatest authority in the government of the State, next the person of the King himself, to
whom all other powers are equally subject; and no King of England can so well secure his own
just prerogative or preserve it from violation as by a strict defending and supporting the
dignity of his Privy Council."

This is one of the features in Clarendon's scheme of the constitution, which essentially divide
him from the modern view. But it was to be long before the Privy Councilship became, as in
modern usage, little more than an honorary title; and it may be doubted whether a strict reading
of the constitution is not infringed by the change which this has involved. Clarendon did not,
of course, suppose that the Privy Council could place itself above Parliament, or that it could
pretend to guide the national policy. Such a thing would have been as impossible in Clarendon's
day as it would be now. But he did conceive that the power of the executive should receive
all its authority from, and be subject to the supreme guidance of, the most ancient and august
body which was nominated solely by the Crown. The prerogative of the Crown must be exercised
through that body; and this view was confirmed by the fact that after the Revolution each Privy
Councillor was made responsible for the decrees passed with his assent. This was, indeed, the
very contrivance by which the ancient principle that the King could do no wrong was made compatible
with a free constitution. Clarendon's view, however antiquated, was thus, in truth, a safeguard
for liberty. A great officer of State was entrusted with the duties and powers of his office.
But he was not necessarily a member of the Privy Council, and his powers were, in Clarendon's
view, limited by the supreme authority of that Council. That its portals should be jealously
guarded; that only men of the first weight should be admitted to it; that its proceedings should
be carefully regulated and should rest upon sound legal principles--all these things made for
government by the personal agency of carefully chosen Ministers of the Crown, which it was
Clarendon's aim to preserve, instead of bureaucratic rule by a host of minor officials. They
also served as a powerful guarantee for constitutional liberty and for immediate responsibility
attaching to a well-recognized body for any infringement of it. It is hard to fix responsibility
amongst the various grades of an official hierarchy. It is easy to fix it upon a small group
of leading men who have the administration in their hands, who are bound to base their procedure
on well-understood rules, and who cannot transgress these rules in ignorance or under the veil
of obscurity.

Under the new régime the Chancellor found the Privy Council filled with Court favourites or
ambitious intriguers of the type of Sir William Coventry, who scorned precedent and was never
so happy as when inveighing against the trammels of the law. Clarendon was forced to submit
to daily encroachments upon regularity of procedure, which found encouragement from the King.
His personal dignity was injured, and his temper was daily chafed, by the insults of those
who carried their insubordination and their flippancy to the Council Chamber, where he could
ill brook their presence; and they did so under cover of the secret sympathy of the King. Day
by day he found his own influence more surely undermined; and it was none the less irksome
because he saw the work of his life undone amidst the gibes of a heartless cynicism.

It involves, however, no reflection upon the dignity or the capacity of Clarendon if we are
compelled to admit that the schoolboy baiting to which he was exposed found no little encouragement
from his own bluntness and his stubborn resolution to stoop to none of the arts of courtiership.
There was a limit even to the patience with which Charles could listen to the oft-repeated
catalogue of his own moral defects; and perhaps Clarendon's lessons might have been none the
less effective had they been conveyed with something more of tact. The strange thing is that
he himself saw, and faithfully recounts, the traps which were laid for him. But he seems to
have thought that these could best be dealt with by roughly trampling on such devices and tearing
his way headlong through such snares. The struggle was sometimes not a little comic in aspect,
in spite of the background of tragedy. Upon some occasions the courtiers, with an hypocrisy
which Clarendon did not fail to suspect, would lament to him the scandals of their master's
life and the injury that these wrought to his reputation and authority. When he urged that
they should "advertise the King what they thought and heard all others say," they professed
that they dared not speak to the King "in such dialect." Clarendon gave them credit for some
honesty in their refusal to condemn what they themselves encouraged; and perhaps too readily
assumed himself the task which they refused. On one occasion, while he and Arlington--one would
have thought no very sympathetic pair for mutual confidences--were discussing the license of
the Court and the consequent injury to the Crown, their conversation was interrupted by the
King. Their trouble did not escape his notice, and he asked the subject of their talk. The
Chancellor candidly declared--prefacing the declaration by a confession that he was not sorry
for the chance of making it--that

"they were speaking of his Majesty, and, as they did frequently, were bewailing the unhappy
life he lived, both with respect to himself, who, by the excess of pleasures which he indulged
to himself, was indeed without the true delight and relish of any; and in respect to his Government,
which he totally neglected, and of which the kingdom was so sensible that it could not be long
before he felt the ill effects of it."

So he proceeded, pressing home the moral with all energy of denunciation, and concluded by

"beseeching him to believe, that which he had often said to him, that no prince could be more
miserable, nor could have more reason to fear his own ruin, than he who hath no servants who
dare contradict him in his opinions and advise him against his inclinations, how natural soever."
The picture was not a flattering one, and the prognostications were not soothing. To play the
part of such a Mentor is doubtless at times a duty, but it can scarcely confirm the influence
of him by whom it is discharged. The King heard it "with his usual temper (for he was a patient
hearer) and spake sensibly, as if he thought that much that had been said was with too much
reason." Perhaps Clarendon might have chosen a better audience than a proclaimed enemy like
Arlington. The secretary had no mind for such jeremiads, and was dexterous enough to turn the
subject by falling into "raillery, which was his best faculty, with which he diverted the King
from any further serious reflections." The King and he soon passed to merriment at Clarendon's
expense, and made the old jests against the gravity of age, which made no allowance for the
infirmities of youth. Clarendon tells the close of the conversation with an almost naïve candour.
Their raillery, he confesses,

"increased the passion he was in, and provoked him to say that it was observed abroad, that
it was a faculty very much improved of late in the Court, to laugh at those arguments they
could not answer, and which could always be requited with the same mirth amongst those who
were enemies to it, and therefore it was a pity that it should be so much embraced by those
who pretended to be friends;" and ended with "some other, too plain, expressions, which, it
may be, were not warily enough used."

Candour is no doubt a virtue, and Clarendon deserves honour for his bold words. But to tell
the King that he was at once a sluggard and a debauchee; that he had lost the respect, and
would probably soon forfeit the obedience of his subjects; and to scold his jocular raillery
by painting him as courting the society and imitating the manners of buffoons, was scarcely
a tactful way of insinuating a lesson of caution and establishing the confidence which makes
a servant congenial to his master. We must honour Clarendon for his manliness; but perhaps
a little less of the pedagogue might not have diminished his influence or impaired the dignity
of his character.

Charles knew how to hide any irritation under a smiling demeanour. But the friction was there
and it soon took plainer shape. Careless as he was, the King had his share of Stuart punctiliousness,
and the habits of the French Court had taught him that royal favour ought to command respect,
even for those whose conduct had forfeited it according to the usual ethics of social decorum.
That respect his pride taught him to insist upon; and he resented the boldness of the lampoons
upon his Court which were now circulated broadcast, not because they reflected on his morals,
but because they were a breach of good manners. One whose chosen associates were men of habitual
profanity and unabashed licentiousness; one who believed religion to be nothing but disguised
hypocrisy, and the chastity of women nothing but a delusion artfully contrived--could not long
condone plain speaking for its manliness and sincerity, and could not conceive that the profligacy
of the royal courtesan deprived her of the observances of formal courtliness. It was this last
point which brought upon Clarendon the King's first direct remonstrances. He told the Chancellor
that "he was more severe against common infirmities than he should be, and that his wife was
not courteous in returning visits and civilities to those who paid her respect." Such neglect
the King chose to interpret as an insult to himself. It was clear to whom and to what it referred;
Clarendon had consistently declined to allow his wife to have any intercourse with Lady Castlemaine.
To the King's remonstrance

"he answered very roundly, that he might seem not to understand his meaning, and so make no
reply to the discourse he had made; but that he understood it all and the meaning of every
word of it; and therefore that it would not become him to suffer his Majesty to depart with
an opinion that what he had said would produce any alteration in his behaviour towards him,
or reformation of his manners towards any other person. He did beseech his Majesty," the Chancellor
went on, "not to believe that he hath a prerogative to declare vice virtue, or to qualify any
person who lives in a sin and avows it, against which God Himself hath pronounced damnation,
for the company and conversation of innocent and worthy persons. Whatever low obedience, which
was in truth gross flattery, some people might pay to what they believed would be grateful
to his Majesty, they had in their hearts a perfect detestation of the persons they made address
to; for his part, he was resolved that his wife should not be one of these courtiers."

The King could only reply "that he was wrong, and had an understanding different from all men
who had experience in the world."

Clarendon's are brave words, and we may well doubt whether the like were ever addressed by
a Minister of the Crown to the occupant of a throne which still retained so much of the kingly
prerogative as did that of Charles. But do they leave us to seek for new grounds for Clarendon's
approaching fall? Do they not, indeed, prove that, but for his thorough grasp of the essentials
of sound administration, his predominant forcefulness, and the urgent need of his wise and
experienced guidance, the King would have yielded to his own growing irritation, and that Clarendon's
fall would have come, and the eager longings of his enemies have been gratified, far earlier
than was the case?

Before we enter upon the last stage of Clarendon's ministry, so fateful for the future history
of England, it may be well to turn to another aspect of his life, which is not without its
use in helping us to estimate his character. We have already seen how the high office which
he held, and for which his unswerving loyalty, his long service, and his ample experience had
so fully designated him, had been accompanied by exalted rank in the nobility of England, which
required him, according to the fashion of the time, to maintain great state, and involved heavy
expenditure. He had inherited a fair estate; had married the daughter of an ancient family,
with no small dowry; and, in his early days, his fortune had been increased, not only by further
inheritances, but by the lucrative practice of his profession. When he first entered Parliament,
he had before him the prospect of a prosperous career; and when he was induced to enter the
service of Charles I. it was possible for him to do so without emolument and in full security
that his own means would be ample for his requirements. During the troubled years that followed
these means rapidly decreased. He could draw no revenue from his estates, and during the long
years of his banishment from the country he had been reduced to the direst straits of poverty,
and had been forced to subsist on the scanty grants that could be made to him, and to others,
from the funds supplied to the King by those loyal supporters who could spare something from
their own impaired revenues. After the Restoration, Clarendon found himself in possession of
an office of which the emoluments, without any of those malpractices or extortions which were
then too common, and which his enemies did not scruple to charge against him, [Footnote: Hints
and gossip as to such bribes and commissions were inevitable in an age when they were only
too common, and in the mouths of men whose consciences were blunted by long practice. Such
gossip readily spread, as it is, in all places and in all ages, too apt to do. We may safely
discard the slanderous garrulity of Pepys, and just as safely the ridiculous libel of Anthony
a Wood, who tells us how one David Jenkyns, a friend of Wood's and a good Royalist, would certainly
have been made a judge at the Restoration, if he "had paid money to the Lord Chancellor." Anthony
a Wood had no kindly feeling to a family from whom he received such castigation as he did from
the Hydes. Lies of that sort always propagate themselves, like noisome weeds; it is the part
of the wise to neglect them until they are established by proof.] were still large. There is
not a tittle of evidence to disprove Clarendon's assertion, that he confined himself to those
revenues of his office which were strictly legal; and to suppose otherwise would be to suppose
him false to all those ideals which were the foundation of his character, and to which his
pride, if nothing else, compelled him. Naturally he recovered the full use of his private property,
and some, at least, of the arrears due to him would undoubtedly be paid. Very soon after the
King's return a grant--in no degree above his merits--of £20,000 was made to him by the King
out of the present sent by the Parliament. Clarendon found himself in the position of a fairly
wealthy man, and it was not unnatural that he should desire to maintain that position which
was commensurate with his rank. He knew himself to be the founder of a family which must take
its place in the ranks of the great nobility of England, and must hold a conspicuous place
in her annals. To him, as to many men for whom the pettiness of personal position weighs for
little, the maintenance of that family in worthy dignity became a legitimate object of ambition.
[Footnote: Clarendon did, indeed, as he was fully justified in doing, procure for some of his
relations posts for which there is no reason to judge them unsuitable. One cousin, Alexander
Hyde, became Bishop of Salisbury. Another, Robert Hyde, became Chief Justice of the Common
Pleas in 1661. The brother of these two, Henry Hyde, had been executed for his loyalty in 1650,
and thereby had established no mean claim to loyal gratitude. Clarendon, in this, did no more
than any one in his circumstances was not only entitled, but bound to do.] To his historic
sense a place amongst the nobility of his country was attractive, and its stateliness was something
which his imagination clothed with more than merely superficial allurement. It was from no
selfish feeling and no vanity of personal display, that he conceived the idea of leaving to
those who were to come after him an inheritance compatible with that position. It would be
unjust to blame Clarendon because he gave the scanty leisure, which his absorbing business
permitted him, to attaining that object. For years after the Restoration he had no house of
his own in London, and occupied one or other of the houses either lent or hired to him by members
of the great nobility who now looked upon him as their equal. After his private affairs were
on a more secure basis, he began to build for himself. He chose a site near the top of St.
James's Street, just where Piccadilly began to melt into the fields beyond, and there he constructed
a mansion which he fondly hoped would carry on his name for many a generation. It was conceived
on ample lines and with all that pride of architecture which his own cultured taste and the
stately ceremonial of the day made congenial to him. As in temperament and style, so in his
conception of the constitution, in his taste, and in the ordering of his life, Clarendon was
essentially an aristocrat; and it was in harmony with that idea that the mansion which faced
St. James's Palace, [Footnote: It was flanked by Lord Berkeley's house to the west, and by
Burlington House to the east.] and was to bear the name of Clarendon House, was now rising
in all the bravery of ornament and amplitude of design which were in keeping with its owner's
taste; and that it should earn the praise of Evelyn as likely to be the stateliest house in
London. [Footnote: "To my Lord Chancellor at Clarendon House," says Pepys, in his Diary for
May 9, 1667. "Mightily pleased with the nobleness of this house, and the brave furniture and
pictures, which indeed is very noble." He had been impressed with it as strongly in its early
stages, and writes in January, 1666: "It is the finest pile I ever did see in my life, and
will be a glorious house." The building was begun early in 1665. Evelyn is not so complimentary.
He thought it "a goodly pile to see, but had many defects as to the architecture, yet placed
most gracefully" (Diary, Nov. 28, 1666). A longer passage from Evelyn's Diary, of a later date,
is quoted in the note on p. 324.

Pepys was greatly impressed with the view, to which he more than once returned, from the roof
of the house. "It is the noblest prospect that ever I saw in my life; Greenwich being nothing
to it" (Feb. 1665/6).] But envious tongues and malicious gossip soon taught its builder that
his pride was vain, and that he could not indulge his fancy with the ease of one who held obscurer
rank. The crowd is fickle, and Clarendon took little care to secure its lenient judgment. Already
his mansion was nicknamed Dunkirk House, and the quidnuncs told how it was built out of the
bribes which had made him contrive the sale of that port to France. To decorate his mansion
it was his ambition to collect a gallery of portraits, which should represent all those who
had foremost places in the eventful history of his time. Such a design involved an expenditure
very small compared with the notions of the present day. Clarendon procured all the notable
portraits which were available. It is quite possible--and Evelyn admits it--that when the statesman's
foible became known; pictures were sold to him at easy prices, or even presented as a compliment
to the power and position of the collector. It is absurd to suppose that Clarendon either would
or could have brought any pressure to bear upon the owners. But a falling statesman is an easy
aim for slander, and it was whispered that the Clarendon collection was enriched by oppressive
means. [Footnote: The chief authority for this accusation against Clarendon is an ill-natured
insinuation by Lord Dartmouth, in his notes on Burnet's History of His Own Times,--notes which
were in MS. only, and which were not intended for publication. It carries its own refutation,
and Dartmouth could not possibly have had any knowledge of the circumstances. Clarendon no
doubt received certain complimentary gifts. But we know that many private collections were
broken up and sold by impoverished Cavaliers, and such pictures must at that time have been
procurable at easy prices. Many of the pictures were interesting as portraits, rather than
as works of art, although there were good specimens of Vandyke, Jansen, Kneller, and Lely amongst
the collection; and Clarendon was probably able to pursue his hobby of collecting portraits
of the outstanding men in English history at no great cost.

In a letter to Pepys of August 12, 1689, Evelyn gives a list of pictures in the collection
of which he himself had advised the purchase, and some of which, he admits, had been presented
by those who "strove to make their court" to the Chancellor, by such timely gifts, when his
design was known. They comprised portraits of all the leading men in the reigns of Elizabeth,
James I., and Charles I., and others were added from more remote history, and from his own
later contemporaries. It is interesting to note that there were portraits of Chaucer, Shakespeare,
Beaumont, and Fletcher--"which was," adds Evelyn, "most agreeable to his Lordship's general
humour."

When Clarendon House was destroyed, the collection went to his country house, at Cornbury,
in Oxfordshire. On the death of Lord Rochester, in 1753, they were divided between his daughters,
Jane, Countess of Essex and Catherine (the famous "Kitty" of Pope and Gay), Duchess of Queensberry.
The first moiety is that now at the Grove, Watford; the second is that which descended to the
Douglas family, and is now at Bothwell Castle.] If Clarendon's very natural ambition to bequeath
a dignified home to his family and to make it a treasure-house of portraits which represented
a great page in English history, was any weakness, it was one for which he may well be pardoned,
and for which he paid heavily. He lived to regret the error into which a very human pride had
led him. We must leave it to sterner moralists to deal out censure upon a weakness which he
shared with other men of genius, who have found a solace in raising a stately monument which
they may bequeath to posterity, and which may preserve another memory of them than that of
their toils and their struggles and their own personal ambitions. But in the case of Clarendon
this weakness--of which he himself clearly saw the error--had this additional disadvantage,
that it spread the belief that he had acquired wealth proportionate to such architectural expenditure.
Like many another man, Clarendon overbuilt himself; and his miscalculation made his contemporaries
suppose him the possessor of a superfluity of ill-gotten wealth.

CHAPTER XXIV

INCREASING BITTERNESS OF HIS FOES

In the midst of thickening troubles at home and abroad, in Court, in the city, and in the provinces,
Parliament met on the 2lst September, 1666. The new session was destined to bring sharply to
an issue more than one of the questions in regard to which long-drawn friction had vexed the
soul of Clarendon, and as it proceeded it was to reveal more clearly the designs of those who
had striven so persistently to fret irritations and sow new seeds of dissension between him
and the King. Their success, ignoble as it was, and little profitable either to the Crown,
the kingdom, or themselves, was soon to be achieved.

Parliament met under the oppression of gloom caused by the Fire. Whitehall and Westminster
were safe, but scarcely a mile distant the smoke which rose from the desolated city had hardly
died away. "They saw," said the King in his opening address, "the dismal ruins the Fire had
made; and nothing but a miracle of God's mercy could have preserved what was left from the
same destruction." He was forced once more to apply for their assistance to meet the vast expense
of the war, to which no end could be foreseen. The disasters of the kingdom had doubled the
insolence of their enemies; and nothing could save the country but a vigorous effort to show
the world that, in spite of these disasters, it was still equal to its own defence. It was
a crisis which sorely needed all the energy of firm and united statesmanship; and very scantily
was that need supplied. The interruption of credit; the bankruptcy of many of the leading citizens;
the general paralysis that had fallen upon commerce--all these made it hard to say how money
could be raised, and Clarendon notes, with none of the satisfaction that the truth of his prophecy
might have brought, that the Appropriation Proviso had resulted in the check, rather than in
the boasted increase, of the supply of funds. There was, indeed, "a faint vote procured," that
they would give a supply proportionate to the wants of the Crown; but no sum was fixed, and
after this first vague resolution the matter hung in suspense, and even a Parliament that was
so strongly loyalist found it needful to delay and insist upon conditions before any new supply
was voted. Their loyalty had now a strong vein of stubbornness. The country gentlemen could
no longer blind themselves to the scandals of the Court, and the intractable mood bred by these
scandals could be skilfully turned to their own purposes by Clarendon's enemies. What had at
first been only dilatoriness soon developed into sharp criticism and angry remonstrance, for
which Clarendon knew that there was only too good ground. It was an ill time to press for new
supplies when the national resources were drained to the dregs. If the King needed more after
the lavish grants of recent years, there must have been mischief afoot which should be probed
to the bottom. All those through whose hands the money had passed must give a strict account of it.

A Bill was introduced for the appointment of Audit Commissioners, who were to examine all accounts
and report to Parliament any defaulters, whose punishment Parliament was to determine. So strongly
was the country party bent upon this financial inquest that it was difficult to withstand their
zeal in the hunt for malpractices. The naval administration was chiefly in their view, and
their threats caused much searching of heart amongst those whose consciences told them that
their methods could hardly meet the perilous light of day. A certain amount of corruption was
an ordinary incident of all administrative dealings. Pepys had no wish to be dishonest, and
was, indeed, a fairly incorrupt official, according to the ideas of the day. Many times he
had withstood flagrant waste, and he was vigilant in promoting sound economies. But a barefaced
system of secret commissions, which he honestly records in the faithful pages of his Diary,
was universally practised, and the only admitted scruple was that such commissions should not
be allowed to operate so as to permit a flagrantly dishonest contract. Subject to this, he
evidently thought himself neglectful of his rightful interests if he did not make the most
out of every transaction, and he piously invokes the blessing of Heaven upon the unsavoury
business, as, with unctuous complacency, he counts up his gains. But, however such things may
be condoned by the prevailing practice they have an ugly appearance when exposed to the public
gaze, and Pepys was sorely alarmed both for himself and his principals at the prospect of a
strict investigation. Others besides Pepys were involved. Ashley's administration of the prize-money
had been expressly set free from any auditing authority except that of the King; and under
the protection of this proviso he had expended the proceeds not only with the sanction, but
at the instigation of Charles, on objects which could not be made public without exposing the
Crown to the contempt of the nation, and making the resistance of the country party more obstinate
and more outspoken. Charles took alarm, and consulted the secret committee of the Privy Council
on the subject. He was determined, he said, to defend his Ministers against an inquiry conducted
on methods for which there was no precedent, and under which no man would be safe. He trusted
that the Bill would receive no support in the Commons; that if it passed the Commons it would
be rejected by the Lords; but in any case, he was resolved never to give it his assent. The
committee appeared to assent to these bold words, and to see in the proposal a dangerous menace
to the prerogative of the Crown; and Clarendon, obeying his natural dislike of such encroachments,
confirmed the view of the King, hoped that he would abide by his resolution, and promised his
own vigorous opposition to any such Bill in the Lords.

It is hard to find any adequate ground, either in policy or in justice, for Clarendon's resistance
to this proposal. He had himself nothing to fear from it. He had no part in the details of
naval administration, and those who were chiefly threatened had no claim to his protection.
He had been strongly opposed to Ashley's appointment to administer the prize- money, and he
could not but know that the investigation would ruin Ashley's reputation. Had he boldly placed
himself at the head of the country party and made himself the foremost champion of financial
purity, he might have established a firm hold upon the affections of all that was best in the
nation, and he might have trusted to their loyalty and his own to prevent any serious blow
to the prerogative of the Crown and the respect due to the King. As a fact, he did assent,
subsequently, to the nomination by the Crown of an audit commission, and it does not seem as
if a simple alteration of procedure would have seriously affected the substance of the matter.
Of his failure to act thus, his increasing age, his infirmities of health, the anxieties by
which he was oppressed, and the lack of powerful and confidential allies may have largely been
the cause. But we must remember also the ruling principles in Clarendon's conception of the
constitution, and his own deep-seated prejudices. He was unwilling to stoop to injure an enemy
by a weapon which might diminish the prerogative of the Crown. He never sought the position
of leader of a party, which would thus have been forced upon him, and he felt that position
to be incompatible with his own loyalty as servant of the Crown. He disliked the idea of Parliamentary
tactics; and all his past experience identified such tactics, in his mind, with the beginnings
of rebellion. It was not given to him to see so far into the future as to conceive that an
independent Minister might be the strongest buttress of the Crown.

But the tactics from which he recoiled were put into practice, with less than his honesty,
but with much more skill in stratagem, by those who sought to accomplish his fall. The very
courtiers whose influence was accountable for the scandals which stirred the indignation of
the country party, made themselves the trusted friends of the parliamentary opposition, and
carefully nursed it for their own purposes. The irresponsible and flighty genius of Buckingham
made him, for the moment, the chosen patron of those who were murmuring against the abuses
of the Court, stimulated him to organize and conciliate the Parliamentary faction that grumbled
against the waste of the national resources, and induced him to cast aside for the time the
habits of a profligate voluptuary, and throw himself with ardour into the labours of Parliamentary
debate. Rivalry in debauchery had made him, for a season, the object of the King's personal
dislike, and had involved him in a bitter contest with Lady Castlemaine; and this tempted him
to adopt the uncongenial part of a moralist, who found it convenient to cultivate the friendship
of the strictest sectaries, and to pose as the saviour of the kingdom. It was not the first,
nor the only, antic by which he made himself, as Zimri, the easy butt of Dryden's satire. He
became the prime favourite of the people, and his power with the mob seemed to make him the
rival of the King. It added to the zest with which he pursued this new freak, that it helped
him to satisfy private and personal piques. In particular the Duke of Ormonde had become the
object of his almost insane jealousy. Ormonde's lofty character, his consistent loyalty, his
influence in the counsels of the King, above all, his vast power as a great territorial magnate,
had wounded the vanity of Buckingham; and he was able to evoke against Ormonde, as an Irish
peer, the jealousy of those English nobles who thought themselves unduly eclipsed by the great
possessions, and high official rank, of a peer of a lower order--that of the Irish nobility.

It was largely in obedience to this personal jealousy, that Buckingham had made himself the
prominent promoter of a Bill of singular injustice to the sister kingdom. It was conceived
that the importation of Irish cattle was a serious injury to the English agricultural interest,
and was enriching the Irish at the expense of the English proprietors; and it was therefore
proposed to forbid any such importation. That it involved practical ruin to Ireland, and promised
to lay the seeds of deep-rooted hatred, mattered nothing to those who had their own selfish
objects to pursue, or who had private grudges to satisfy. It was only natural that the Bill
found ready assent amongst some honest men, who were earnestly desirous to relieve the agricultural
interest, suffering heavily under the pressure of taxation, and who had something else than
private venom to indulge. The bitter complaints of Ireland could not be expected to weigh for
much. It remained to be seen whether the short-sighted selfishness, which was sedulously fostered
in order to gratify personal spleen, would be allowed to inflict upon a nation, united under
the same Crown, this scandalous injustice. At first it was proposed that the embargo should
extend to Scotland also; but at a later stage this was dropped.

The King was not deceived as to the injustice of the Bill, and in its earliest stages he professed
that his conscience would never allow him to give it his assent. He urged the Council "to give
such a stop to this Bill that it might never be presented to him; for if it were, he must positively
reject it." It was not the first, nor the last, pronouncement of the King that was to turn
out an empty threat.

The Council did not unanimously accept the opinion of the King. Those whom he consulted took
diverse views of the Bill, and some even who doubted its policy were not prepared to face the
opposition of the English agricultural interest. Amongst the members of both Houses of the
English Parliament there was a deeply-seated jealousy of Ireland, inherited from the days of
her resistance to English power, and sharpened by fervent opposition to her Roman Catholic
predilections. The promoters of the Bill soon found themselves backed up by a solid phalanx
of English prejudice, which held the Commons staunch to their support of its provisions. Buckingham
and Ashley learned that their championship added to their hold upon the nation, and gave them
a new chance of inflicting a defeat at once upon the King, and upon his older Minister. Clarendon
fully recognized the iniquity of the Bill, and welcomed the stalwart resistance which the King
avowed that he would give to it. [Footnote: It is odd to remark how the incurable prejudice
of Whig historians blinds them to the real bearing of the Bill, and forces them, in their desire
to avoid any agreement with Clarendon, to find some excuse for it. "It is by no means clear,"
writes Mr. Christie, the biographer of Ashley, "that special circumstances did not counsel
an exception to the general rules of political economy." So easily are fundamental principles
made to bend to the exigencies of personal advocacy!] But the result was to prove to him once
more how little reliance could be placed on any apparently settled conviction of the King.

The House of Commons had now become too stubborn to yield to any arguments of justice; and
that the King and his Ministers opposed the Bill only added to the obstinacy with which it
was pressed. There was now a deliberate opposition to the Crown, and of the two Bills--that
about Irish cattle, and that for a commission of audit--the first was "driven on with more
fury, and the other more passionately spoken of." Any support which the party of the Court
could reckon on, rapidly diminished; and even its adherents applied to the King for permission
to record their votes in favour of the Bill. [Footnote: Life, iii. 141.] Again Sir William
Coventry, who, to Clarendon's mind, was the evil genius in every plot, appeared upon the scene.
He persuaded the King of the strength of the supporters of the Bill, and the small prospect
of any supply until the House was satisfied that it would pass. Perhaps, he added, if the friends
of the Court withdrew their opposition to the Irish Bill, they might thus be able to elude
the threatening provisions of the Bill for the audit of accounts. [Footnote: Ibid., p. 142.]

Under such inducements, Charles's conscientious opposition to the Bill soon disappeared. His
henchmen in the House received new orders, and amidst the plaudits of Buckingham's sycophants,
this iniquitous Bill passed through the House of Commons. The triumph only made the Commons
insist with the more vigour upon the Bill for the audit of accounts. Again the King yielded
to pressure, to the alluring prophecies of abundant supplies as the reward of surrender, and
to the dire threats of exposure of Court scandals if the will of the House were thwarted. The
result was a new surrender, and the Accounts Bill followed the other to the House of Lords.

The scene of the struggle was now changed, but it was evident that the persistence of opposition
was in no way checked, and that a fierce struggle between Parliamentary power and the royal
prerogative was threatened in the immediate future. To Clarendon, the opposition in the House
of Commons centred in these two Bills. Taken together, they roused his unrelenting hostility,
the one because it was founded upon no constitutional precedent, and was dangerous to the royal
prerogative, the other because it was conceived in a spirit of reckless animosity, and was
flagrantly unjust to Ireland. Up to a certain point, the King had cordially agreed with that
view; but once more that fickle support went for nothing; a few threats and allurements disposed
of Charles's conscience as well as of his judgment. For him precedent did not count; the royal
prerogative meant only what secured for himself an easy life, and the prospect of supply; and
as for injustice to Ireland, the burden of conscientious scruples was easily transferred to
other shoulders. A strong will and a scrupulous conscience were inconvenient equipments for
a Minister of Charles II.

But it was still Clarendon's duty to do his best to save the King from treacherous plotters,
as well as from the consequences of his own fickle waywardness. There was one way which occurred
to Clarendon, and which he seems to have urged upon the King without success. The Parliament
had now sat for six years, and perhaps contact with the constituencies might prove a solvent
of their irksome obstinacy, and also of those dangerous combinations which were threatening
to foil all schemes of sound policy. Might it not be that the sound loyalty of the nation would
send to Westminster a Parliament, not servile or subservient, but less truculent and intractable,
than the present? Whatever the soundness of his opinion-- and it may perhaps be doubted if
a new election would have been a safe expedient for the King--it obtained scanty support. The
little clique of intriguing courtiers thought that it portended danger to their own influence.
Some who had proved ineffective asserters of the views of the country party were alarmed for
their seats; the King was easily persuaded that many of his own most obedient placemen might
disappear. Buckingham and his friends managed even to

alarm the bishops, by predicting a majority for the enemies of the Church. Clarendon never
found that the ecclesiastical mind was one upon which, as a statesman, he could place any reliance.
They judged now as far from the mark as usual, and yielded to the persuasions of his foes.
Clarendon was fain to be content with the existing House of Commons; and the fight was now
to be how far the Lords would bow to the imperious demands of that House, and allow themselves
to be managed by the little band of malcontents, whose main object was to make the present
administration impossible.

In the House of Lords the leading part in pushing forward the Irish Cattle Bill was taken by
the Duke of Buckingham. His new-found ardour for political intrigue had changed for the moment
his habits of life as a voluptuary. Under the impulse of his present irritation, his usual
haunts were abandoned, and he spent laborious days in the House, the first to be present, and
the last to disappear. [Footnote: The usual hour for the meeting of Parliament was early, and
Clarendon complains of the laxity which, of recent years, had made the hour as late as ten
o'clock A.M. The House of Lords had of late shown so little zeal for work that they frequently
adjourned after a few minutes. But now, in the excitement of the discussion on the Irish Bill,
they again sat early, and did not adjourn till four o'clock, or even "till the candles were
brought in."] He had the eager support of Ashley, inspired like him, by jealousy of Clarendon
and Ormonde, and bringing to the unholy partnership a lack of principle equal to that of Buckingham,
and far greater powers of concentration, and of persistent strategy. With two such protagonists,
the debates in the House of Lords lost their usual repose and dignity, and became scenes of
turmoil and almost of personal violence. [Footnote: Clarendon tells us an amusing story of
a fracas which occurred between Buckingham and Lord Dorchester, during a conference between
the Houses. The two peers, who were avowed enemies, chanced to sit together, and each endeavoured,
it would seem, to claim more space than was convenient to the other. From hustling they came
to blows, and Lord Dorchester had the misfortune to lose his wig in the shuffle. But "the Marquis
had much of the Duke's hair in his hands to recompense for the pulling off his periwig, which
he could not reach high enough to do to the other" (Life, iii. 154). The matter was settled
without bloodshed, and both peers were sent to cool their tempers by a short detention in the
Tower. We are apt, on doubtful grounds, to think that the debaucheries of Charles's Court were
redeemed by elegance of manners. As a fact, the morals which Dr. Johnson ascribes to Lord Chesterfield's
Letters were often joined, in that Court, to manners which would have shocked the dancing master
of his apothegm.] Buckingham on one occasion provoked a scene by insolently stating "that whoever
was against that Bill had either an Irish interest or an Irish understanding." The remark,
as well as Buckingham's habitual arrogance, aroused the wrath of Lord Ossory, Ormonde's eldest
son, and a challenge was the consequence. Buckingham, who did not, to the other attributes
of finished courtier, add that of personal courage, contrived to miss the rendezvous, and,
with a lack of spirit which men of less bravado could hardly have equalled, and which might
have made him blush before his own swashbucklers, he proceeded to lay before the House a narrative
of the case. Both parties, it was held, had been to blame, and both were, as usual, to pass
a short period of penance in the Tower. But Buckingham's enemies contrived, under the rules
of the House, to inflict an insult upon him, which might have stirred the blood of a Quaker,
not to speak of that which flowed in the veins of this model gentleman. It was unjust, they
urged, that any punishment should fall upon the Duke. He had done his best to prevent the encounter,
and had prudently mistaken the rendezvous. His friends, not unnaturally, thought "that it would
be more for his honour to undergo the censure of the House than the penalty of such a vindication."

But apart from these comic accompaniments, the debate upon the Bill in the Lords raised grave
constitutional questions. Clarendon opposed the Bill as radically unjust, and economically
wrong. But he found in it also much that encroached upon the prerogative. Cases might easily
occur where a remission of the Act was imperatively required in the public interest, and in
special exigencies, and the usual course was to give such dispensing power to the Crown, just
as it is now given under many statutes, by the machinery of an Order in Council. But the prejudices
of the promoters of the Bill were too virulent to be satisfied with anything less than the
strict and universal application of the embargo; nor did they scruple to suggest that new restraints
were required upon the power of the Crown. All that Clarendon and his friends in the House
of Lords could do, was to insist that some of the clauses most offensive to the prerogative,
and most opposed to precedent, should be expunged from the Bill before it was returned to the
House of Commons.

The struggle then entered upon a new phase, involving another constitutional principle. The
Commons were prepared to agree to the omission of Scotland from the Bill;

but in regard to all else, they refused to accept the amendments of the Lords. The two Houses
were in sharp conflict, and for a time it appeared as if the disagreement could result only
in the loss of the Bill. Its friends had no wish to see this catastrophe, and a conference
between the Houses was therefore arranged. The result was not such as to encourage those who
wished for the settlement of a vexed question, or who hoped that prudent counsels would be
brought to bear on a constitutional difficulty. To the irritation which the country party had
conceived against the Court, and to the obstinate determination that the royal prerogative
should yield to the will of Parliament, there was now added a bitter fight between the two
Houses; and here again Clarendon's long-cherished opinions forced him to take the unpopular
side. Once more the habits of a lifetime refused to disappear before an unwarranted, and, as
he thought, dangerous innovation. We may doubt whether he duly estimated the forces to which
he was opposing himself, or rightly gauged the direction in which men's minds were moving.
We may say, with full confidence, that he chose his part with singular indifference to what
was politically or personally expedient. Neither now nor at any other time did Clarendon yield
to anything but his own conscientious convictions. Nature had not so framed him as to give
him the faculty of making these convictions any more palatable by his methods of enforcing
them. He recognized this fully himself.

"In all the debate upon this Bill, and upon the other of accounts, the Chancellor had the misfortune
to lose much credit in the House of Commons, not only by a very strong and cordial opposition
to what they desired, but by taking all occasions which were offered by the frequent arguments
which were urged of the opinion and authority of the House of Commons, and that it was fit
and necessary to concur with them, to mention them with less reverence than they expected.
It is very true he had always used in such provocations to desire the Lords to be more solicitous
in preserving their own unquestionable rights, and most important privileges, and less tender
in restraining the excess and new encroachments of the House of Commons." [Footnote: Life,
iii. 163.]

He listened with ill-concealed irritation to assertions of supreme power on the part of the
Commons, which aroused echoes of the old days of the Long Parliament. His cherished hope was
not for an absolute monarchy, but for such maintenance of the royal prerogative as might assure
the delicate balance of the constitution; and he saw that the degradation of the Lords to a
mere chamber for registering the determination of the House of Commons was a first step in
throwing that delicate balance out of gear. "His opinion was that the late rebellion could
never be extirpated and pulled up by the roots, till the King's regal and inherent power and
prerogative should be fully awarded and vindicated;" and that prerogative to his mind was associated
with the maintenance of adequate authority in the House of Lords. It was not given to him to
recognize how deeply that rebellion had struck its roots, and how sure it was that from these
roots would grow a strong plant of Parliamentary power, and of predominance of the Representative
House, which it was now too late to extirpate. He saw that the irregularities of administration,
and the proneness of irresponsible men "to meddle and interpose in matters out of their own
sphere, to give their advice in matters of peace and war, to hold conferences with the King,
and offer their advices to him," were inevitably breaking down that scheme of the Constitution
to which his life had bound him. He was by no means inclined to flatter the House of Lords,
or to exempt them from blame for much that he thought mischievous. They had neglected their
business, their discharge of their functions had been careless and perfunctory, their meetings
had been short, and their intervention in public affairs scanty, "while the other House sat,
and drew the eyes of the kingdom upon them, as the only vigilant people for their good." Clarendon's
constitutional ideals might be mistaken; but he was under no mistake as to the process by which
they were being undermined. He saw how fatal was the error by which the peers insisted upon
special personal privileges which lessened the esteem of their order. He protested against
that claim of exemption from arrest for debt, which they sought to extend to their menial servants,
and which led to such exemptions being often sold by these servants to bankrupt citizens, to
the scandal of the law. It was this petty personal arrogance of the peers which gave the House
of Commons their opportunity, of which they were not slow to make use, and in doing so they
were encouraged even by those members of the House of Peers who found their personal aims advanced
by fostering the obstinacy of the House of Commons opposition. It was his misfortune thus to
offend the sticklers for privilege in the House of Lords, while the House of Commons were coming
to consider him as the prime obstacle in the way of their newly asserted independence. His
enemies rejoiced in such clumsy tactics, while his friends vainly desired him "to use less
fervour in these argumentations." In describing these contentions, he uses of himself almost
the very words which he had applied to Laud in the old days when Clarendon had urged his patron
to be more careful how he gave unnecessary occasion of offence. [Footnote: Clarendon himself
remarks "that he was guilty of that himself of which he used to accuse Archbishop Laud, that
he was too proud of a good conscience" (Life, iii. 266).]

"He was in that, as in many things of that kind, that related to the offending other men, for
his own sake un-counsellable; [Footnote: i.e. according to Clarendon's idiom, less amenable
to advice than it would have been in his own interest to be.] not that he did not know that
it exposed him to the censure of some men who lay in wait to do him hurt, but because he neglected
those censures, nor valued the persons who promoted them."

It was a sturdy attitude no doubt; but the Court of Charles was hardly a scene in which it
could be assumed with safety. In that tainted atmosphere blunt-spoken sincerity could scarcely
breathe.

Clarendon had attempted to make the House of Lords a buttress to the royal prerogative. A sardonic
fate taught him that the weakest support upon which he could rely was the King, for whose power
he was ready to sacrifice his own popularity, and hazard his fortune and even his life. His
enemies could always appeal to the King's love of ease, and to his dread of troublesome interference
with his pleasures and his lavish expense. It was on these ignoble motives that they now relied.
The Irish Bill must be passed, or supplies would not be forthcoming, the threatening murmurs
of the people would take shape in action, and the luxuries and the debaucheries of Whitehall
would no longer be left in peace. So Charles's conscientious objections again disappeared.
The Lords who were in the confidence of the King were bidden to abate their opposition; the
Commons had their way, the injustice to Ireland was forgotten, and the Bill was passed. Charles
and his flatterers persuaded themselves that the surrender was the fruit of sagacious policy;
they gave full rein to their sarcastic humour in the ridicule of Clarendon and the belated
obstinacy of his loyalty to the constitution.

Charles gave his assent to the Irish Bill on January 18th, and in his Speech on that occasion
he announced to Parliament their speedy prorogation, and recalled to their minds with some
emphasis the forgotten business of supply. This appeal had a good effect, and for very shame
the House placed the King in the position to discharge some of his seamen's arrears of pay,
and to put some portion of his fleet in fighting trim. [Footnote: In the speech of thanks for
this grant the Chancellor persuaded the King to express his hope that provisos like that of
the Appropriation Bill would in future be dropped. It was a reflection on Sir W. Coventry's
plan, and as such was taken by Coventry himself. (See Pepys, April 1, 1667.)] Parliament was
prorogued on February 8th, and the King had the satisfaction of reminding the Commons that
the Bill for the audit of accounts had never been presented to him, and that he proposed himself
to issue a commission for the purpose. We can scarcely doubt that this last resolution was
adopted by the advice of Clarendon himself. He disliked the encroachment of the Commons, but
it was no part of his desire to keep the light of day from the scandals of financial administration.
Such a commission, not extorted from the King as an insult, but resting upon his own authority,
might perform a necessary and useful work, and care was taken in the selection of commissioners
to give no suspicion of weakness or partiality. Before it could do effective work, Clarendon
had ceased to guide the nation's policy.

The pressure of Parliamentary opposition was for the time removed. But the troubles of the
King's Minister were by no means at an end. The war dragged on its course, our resources were
nearly drained, the navy was reduced to inefficiency, our foes were encouraged to new efforts
by our disasters. We have already [Footnote: Chapter XXI.] seen the insults which England was
yet to undergo before the relief of a not very creditable peace was won, and to what dire necessities
the Treasury was reduced for lack of funds. We have learned how, at that juncture, [Footnote:
Chapter XXI.] Clarendon differed from the other advisers of the King, was adverse to convoking
Parliament, and suggested the unwelcome device of a loan to tide over the emergency. Peace
came at last. But it brought no satisfaction to the nation, and no recompense for her vast
expenditure. It left the relations between Clarendon and the King sadly strained, and it did
not soften the growing unpopularity of the Minister with the country party, or bring oblivion
of his sharp passages with the House of Commons. On the contrary, it is precisely from this
moment that Clarendon dated the rise of that storm that was to "destroy all his prosperity,
and shipwreck all his hopes." The cloud had indeed been thickening, and the waves had been
gathering new force, for months and even years. Clarendon professes his knowledge of the plots
that had long been undermining his power.

All that he means by dating the storm from this period, is that the long threatened tempest
now burst in its full force. But the struggle was to be maintained, not without hopes, for
a few months more.

Clarendon had the satisfaction of finding that the summoning of Parliament, in the spring of
1667, to which he had been strongly opposed, and the legality of which he doubted, [Footnote:
See ante, p. 206.] was after all rendered unnecessary by the near prospect of peace. But Clarendon's
opposition to the proposal had increased, if possible, his unpopularity with the Commons, and
suspicions had been rife that he desired to raise revenue without Parliamentary consent. The
disasters which attended the last stages of the war did not allay the general discontent, and
when the peace was at last signed on July 2lst, 1667, it found Court and Ministers alike under
the cloud of popular jealousy. Only two months before Clarendon had lost the stay and support
of that colleague, whose sympathies were closest to his own, the loyalty of whose friendship
was most untainted, and upon whose character and high rank Clarendon could rely to balance
the jealousy of his own promotion--too sudden not to offend the pride of the older nobility.
With touching anxiety, Clarendon had sought to defend his old friend, now enfeebled by age
and ill-health, from the unseemly efforts that had been made to remove him by those who sought
to fill his place, but it may be doubted whether in doing so he acted in the real interests
of Southampton's reputation. His desire to keep his old friend at his side was only natural.
Both had passed through hard straits, and both--because Southampton was only the Chancellor's
senior by a year--were now prematurely aged. Clarendon and he were the last of the old band
who had rallied to the King in 1640, and a true instinct taught him that they must stand or
fall together. All the most cherished memories of his life, all that was most sacred in his
loyal devotion to his first master, all the vicissitudes of his fortunes, were associated in
Clarendon's mind with the friendship which began when they were students together at Magdalen,
and was cemented when they had been forced together, by the excesses of the party with which
they had at first been in sympathy, to attach themselves to the Royalist side, at a time when
that side had ceased to have any means of attracting the support of selfish ambition. They
had alike been averse to the proceedings of the Court during the days when Parliamentary Government
was suspended, [Footnote: Southampton had suffered severely in purse from the claims put forward
by the Crown on his estates in Hampshire; and we have already seen how little Hyde sympathized
with the rigour with which such claims were pressed.

This Thomas Wriothesley, third Earl of Southampton, was the son of the second Earl, whose name
is immortalized as the patron and the friend of Shakespeare. It is interesting to remember
that one of his daughters (he left no male heir) was the wife of William, Lord Russell, condemned
and executed in 1683.] and had welcomed what they hoped would be a return to sounder methods
when Parliament was again summoned. Both had seen much amiss in the government of Strafford,
and had been glad to think that what they deemed his innovations would receive a check. Both
had revolted against the proceedings of the Parliament, when these transgressed the law, and
both resented the flagrant injustice which procured the judicial murder of Strafford. Southampton
brought to the service of the King the prestige of high rank, the respect earned by a character
which scorned intrigue, and a judgment too sound to be led astray by any violence of partisan
passion. His loyalty was untainted and unswerving. [Footnote: Southampton is said to have kept
watch over the body of the murdered King, during the night when it lay in Whitehall. It was
he who told of the mysterious muffled figure that stole into the Hall during the night, and
muttered the words, "Imperious necessity," and whom he always believed to have been Cromwell.
After his master's death he compounded with the new Government for his delinquency, and lived
in retirement. But he sent encouragement to Charles when a fugitive after the battle of Worcester,
and continued, according to his abilities, to minister to his needs during the long exile.]
Save to those who knew him intimately, his character was tinged with melancholy, and its impression
was not lessened by the habitual gloom which his outward aspect wore. In the inner circle of
his friends, he could indulge in a quaint humour, and was no unkindly companion. He was not
the only one of Clarendon's contemporaries whose temperament was not proof against the depression
born of the troubles of the time. Alike from the ungrudging admiration which Clarendon expresses
for his life-long friend, from the captious criticism of those to whom his long tarrying on
the stage was irksome, and from the irresponsible gossip of Pepys, we have a vivid picture
of the veteran statesman as he appeared to his contemporaries. In outward carriage grave and
distant, girt with that ample ceremony of manner which repelled familiarity; easy and prompt
in debate, with that sense of self-confidence which permits a man to think on his feet, and
to dispense with any niceties of diction; ready to rouse himself to prolonged and earnest labour,
but by habit and preference indolent and a lover of his ease--they all present the same features
in their portraits. He was a loyal friend, save when a nice sense of the respect due to his
rank and character, provoked him to resentment against any fancied neglect; prudent and adroit
in counsel, but perhaps lacking in the energy which was required to translate that counsel
into action; steadfast, rather than alert, in vindicating the primary duty of sound finance.
Clarendon is compelled to admit that "he was naturally lazy, and indulged over much ease to
himself;" but he can tell us of the unwonted exertion of which Southampton showed himself capable
during the treating at Uxbridge, when he worked continuously for twenty days on end, and curtailed
his habitual ten hours of sleep to a maximum of five. His pride involved him in a passing quarrel
with Prince Rupert, whose extravagant assertion of precedence provoked him, and whose challenge
he accepted; but his sound judgment, and his well-tried rectitude were enough, after friends
had interfered, to prevent the untoward meeting, and to bind him and the Prince in the bonds
of an enduring friendship. Like Clarendon, a sound friend to the Church, he was, also like
him, essentially a layman, not without distrust of the wisdom of political ecclesiastics. Because
he was not disposed to underrate the force of the Presbyterian party, and was disinclined to
provoke them to open revolt, the Bishops, according to Clarendon, were wont to impute to him
disloyalty to the Church. Clarendon himself, confirmed enemy of Presbyterianism as he was,
knew by experience on how flimsy grounds such charges might be brought. [Footnote: Pepys, in
many lively passages, adds new touches to the portraiture of the Treasurer. On November 19,
1663, he is summoned to the Lord Treasurer's house, and finds him "a very ready man and certainly
a brave subject to the King." Pepys is troubled only with the "long nails, which he lets grow
upon a pretty short white hand." On September 9, 1665, he recounts the story of one of his
gossips--how "the Lord Treasurer minds his ease, and lets things go how they will; if he can
have his £8000 per annum, and a game at l'ombre, he is well." When the end comes, Pepys--while
he admits that "the slowness and remissness of that great man" have done much harm--yet discerns
that the prospect for the future is far gloomier by his loss. Even Coventry, when he was gone,
could recall the Lord Treasurer whom he had so often thwarted as "a wise and solid though infirm
man."]

Southampton was not one of those personalities that stand out strongly upon the page of history.
Born to great station, he accepted and fulfilled its responsibilities; but he was without initiative,
and without that secret of personal force which dominates a generation and leads a party. As
in the case of many a Minister, before and since, it is to be feared that what his enemies
said was true--that Sir Philip Warwick, his secretary, was Treasurer in all but name. Pepys
tells us of his own long interviews with Warwick, and it is clear that it was at these interviews,
and not at formal conferences with the Lord Treasurer, that the finance of the navy was arranged.
He pictures [Footnote: Diary, April 12, 1665.] in a few graphic words, the scene at one of
these formal conferences.

It is true comedy. But the flux of Pepys's gossippy confidences is a hard ordeal even for a
Minister so worthy as Southampton to pass. Perhaps Pepys also gives us the best picture of
his death, quaintly as it is expressed.

It is no dishonourable epitaph. The career that closed left no brilliant mark, but in its tenor,
as in its ending, it is typical of the grave and balanced dignity, the loyalty to his Church,
to his sovereign, to himself, that were distinctive of that race of the English nobility who
were now to give place to a newer fashion. For us, the closing of that career is chiefly interesting,
as it revives in Clarendon the memory of that older order to which he was so passionately attached,
and as it carried away one of the few remaining barriers between him and friendless isolation.

The question of the succession to Southampton gave new subject of difference between the Chancellor
and the King. Charles was determined, as he had been when there was a talk of Southampton's
resignation, to replace the Treasurership by Commissioners, and had been persuaded by the faction
opposed to Clarendon no longer to have one Minister supreme in finance. Again Clarendon remonstrated,
and urged that this was a scheme fitted for a republic, and incompatible with the principles
of monarchy. It seemed to him one more symptom of the substitution of an official bureaucracy
for personal rule. It is no reflection upon his sincerity to admit that, in this, as in many
of the principles to which he so obstinately adhered in these later days, he was sometimes
moved rather by prejudice than by sound reason. He knew the rottenness of the Court, and the
little trust that was to be placed in those who had gained Charles's ear; and that knowledge
blinded him to the fact that inveteracy in opposition to prevailing views was no safe or prudent
policy for him at this juncture. Himself a man risen from the middle class, he nevertheless
held that the natural custodians of the executive power were men who by hereditary rank, and
by outstanding position, could acquire, if not the confidence, at least the implicit obedience,
of the people. Long association with men of the highest rank, had imbued him with their feelings,
and made him the champion of their privileges. Familiar with the ignoble wiles and stratagems
which impelled political adventurers, he clung, like many a man before and since, to the habits
and the prejudices of a lifetime, and refused to admit any change operating in the spirit of
the age. Amongst the forces opposed to him, he still looked with special dislike upon the active
and indomitable spirit of Sir William Coventry. Coventry's ability Clarendon was compelled
to admit; but he gave him perhaps too little credit for energy and foresight, and for undoubted
administrative efficiency. We need not take Coventry altogether at Clarendon's valuation. The
two men were out of sympathy, and Coventry was far from sharing that ungrudging loyalty to
King and Church which Clarendon reckoned as the test of a sound citizen. Coventry irritated
that love of discipline which was the habit of Clarendon's life. He belonged to a new generation,
and did not conceal his contempt for that careful attention to precedent which was to Clarendon
a second nature. His advancement had seemed to Clarendon unduly rapid, and his impetuous self-assertion,
both in Parliament and in the Privy Council, provoked Clarendon's ire. His one actuating motive,
in Clarendon's eyes, was boundless ambition, and he saw him only as the confederate of those
who thought to govern at once King and Parliament, by dexterous parliamentary management, and
by grasping at the machinery of administration. Coventry's later life proved that he was no
eager seeker after office. Only a few months after Clarendon's fall, he stoutly opposed the
insolence of Buckingham, and felt the effects of royal displeasure when Buckingham had regained
his hold on the facile disposition of the King. He lost all his appointments; and even though,
after a short detention in the Tower, he recovered his freedom and gained the cordial support
of a powerful body of friends, he refused to range himself with any party, and declined all
suggestions that he should again take office. Of his personal ability, of the respect which
he inspired in others than Clarendon, and of his administrative efficiency, we have abundant
evidence from other authorities, including both Evelyn and Pepys. He professed himself, in
confidential conversation with Pepys, as inspired by no personal prejudice against Clarendon
or Southampton. Even the fullest confidence in Clarendon's rectitude cannot blind us to the
fact that neither he nor the Treasurer was now in the full vigour of his prime, that more direct
and personal supervision of the details of administration than they could give was needed to
restore either efficiency or confidence, and that Coventry might honestly believe this. It
is no reflection on the loyalty with which Clarendon clung to a thankless task, if we admit
that it might have fared better with him had he recognized sooner that the accomplishment of
that task, as he had conceived it, was now hopelessly impossible. The truth is that Clarendon's
memory still turned to a time, not so distant, when the relinquishment of office by a Minister
meant a permanent breach with the Sovereign, suspicion of treason, the downfall of his fortunes,
and also the hazard of his life. The change brought about by government by party, in which
a Minister might retire from office, and none the less continue to play a high and influential
part in the political history of his country, was slowly but surely coming. Had Clarendon recognized
it, there seems to have been nothing to prevent his retiring from office, and still continuing
to exercise a potent influence in the counsels of the nation. But he found no precedent in
history for such a course. Retirement to him meant defeat, disgrace, and ruin. It may be doubted
whether his own dogged tenacity, brave and conscientious as it was, did not itself give his
ultimate retirement that added meaning. In adhering to the service of the King, he perhaps
forgot that loyalty may only be wasted on an unwilling object, and that satiety is a prolific
breeder of ingratitude.

Before the storm broke, there was another Court scandal--for it is worthy of no higher name-that
stirred the turbid political waters, and further complicated the difficulties of Clarendon's
position. The Duke of Buckingham, that strange personality--half statesman, half buffoon--who
occupied no inconsiderable part of the stage in Charles's Court, managed to embroil himself
in some extraordinary escapade, or some more than usually freakish piece of mischief, which
for once stirred the ordinarily phlegmatic temper of the King. To probe its details would serve
no good purpose; if it did not originate in, it was no doubt aggravated by, one of those entanglements
common to the life of the bagnio, which Charles's Court so faithfully reflected. Some wrangle
as to the enjoyment of the facile charms of one of the royal mistresses, or the disputed paternity
of some bastard, very probably was the origin of an ignoble quarrel which presently reached
the dimensions of an affair of State, occupied the attention of the Privy Council for no inconsiderable
period, and involved a charge of treason, formulated and then abandoned with the reckless frivolity
of the comic stage. We shall probably not be far wrong in ascribing the beginning of the trouble
to Lady Castlemaine, who found her hold upon the royal favour threatened by some ill-timed
intrigue of Buckingham. A charge of treason was brought against Buckingham, who was known to
have at his command a rascally band of bullies and charlatans, who disturbed the streets of
London, and whose outrages were not kept outside the precincts even of the Court itself. An
assortment of sorry evidence was brought before the Council, and Buckingham was shown to have
trafficked with astrologers and cut-throats, whose designs seemed to have threatened even the
life of the King. He had permitted them to address him in language which indicated that he
had cherished ambitions of hair- brained folly, if not of treasonable insolence, and which
flattered him with thoughts of his boundless influence with the mob. The matter was brought
to Clarendon's knowledge by the King; but the Chancellor endeavoured as far as possible to
hold aloof from the squalid inquiry, which was pushed forward chiefly by Arlington and his
sworn ally, the Lady Castlemaine. A warrant was issued for Buckingham's apprehension; and when
he withdrew from the Court, a proclamation was published that charged him with treason, and
required his surrender. The sheriff's messenger that followed him to his retreat in the country
was openly defied, and Buckingham managed for weeks to elude the clutches of the law. The dignity
of justice was degraded, and the King's warrant was mocked, as long as Buckingham thought he
might rely upon the weakness of the King, and his fears of Buckingham's being provoked to reprisals
which might attach new scandal to the Court. While the warrant was out against him, the Duke
was bold enough to resort to Clarendon, and to invoke his aid in securing for him an interview
with the King, in which he was confident that he might allay the passing anger. Clarendon could
only advise his surrender, and assure him that nothing would be allowed to interfere with the
even-handed administration of justice. Clarendon refused to denounce to Buckingham those who
were his enemies, and evidently had no desire to secure for himself, by so doing, the gratitude
or the alliance of such a man. The Duke at length found that it was either necessary or safe
to surrender himself; and, in the examination which ensued, he showed all his usual insolence,
and his confidence in his hold over the King. He treated the evidence as worthless, and forced
Charles himself to admit that some of the correspondence had its origin in Court intrigue.
The quarrel with Lady Castlemaine was composed, and from being bitter enemies, she and the
Duke became sworn allies, who joined forces in denouncing Clarendon, and found abettors in
those who had lately been the Duke's accusers. A man of much less than Clarendon's pride and
dignity might well have despised such intrigues; but events soon proved how fickle was the
support upon which he could rely in trusting to the gratitude of the King. The incident, as
lightly closed as it had been recklessly begun, resulted only in knitting more closely the
designs of those who were relentlessly pursuing the object of ending his power and procuring
his downfall. No scruples were likely to stay the hands of the sorry band of conspirators.

CHAPTER XXV

THE TRIUMPH OF FACTION

Just as peace had been cemented amongst his enemies, in preparation for a final attack, Clarendon
was struck by a heavy blow of domestic bereavement. Throughout all the vicissitudes of his
life, amidst the hardships of exile, and in the still heavier anxieties that surrounded his
later years of seeming prosperity, Clarendon had ever found in his family a centre of affection,
and a source of consolation--broken only for a season when his eldest daughter was raised,
by her marriage with the Duke, to a position which Clarendon knew well involved danger, both
for her and for himself. His wife had proved an affectionate helpmate, and it is to her credit
that in these Court circles which jealousy had rendered vigilant of any trace of scandal, and
keen to note any assumption of arrogance, the wife of the Chancellor provoked the attacks of
no enemies, and managed to elude the wrangles and bickerings of the Palace. In the summer of
1667, after a brief illness, she who had been his life's companion was taken from him, when,
deprived of all his early friends, he was most in need of the comfort of a loving heart. Belonging,
by birth, to the higher grade of the squirearchy, Lady Clarendon had married in her own rank,
with every promise of all the comfort and dignity of honoured station, and in the first years
had enjoyed a rare felicity of happy wedded life. When the career of politics absorbed her
husband, she submitted without murmur to the interruption of that happiness, and in after years,
without repining, she accepted the burden of the breaking up of her home, long years of anxiety,
and the trials and privations of exile. She carried her later elevation to high rank without
pride or ostentation. She does not lose her right to our respect because she earned what the
Greek historian pronounces to be woman's highest glory, the least noisy echo either of praise
or blame. That helpmate he lost just at the moment when all the forces of factious bitterness,
of meanness, and of ingratitude, were preparing to vent their venom upon him.

The loss fell upon one already sorely tried by long and painful illness, against which he fought
with courageous manliness. He was well aware that the weight of ill-will was rapidly accumulating
against him. He had opposed the summoning of Parliament for the purpose of securing supplies
to meet the exigencies of the war, on the ground that such anticipation of the day fixed for
the resumption of its business was illegal. The expedient he had contemplated was a temporary
loan, and this had been easily twisted, by the perverseness of his enemies, into a suggestion
of raising funds without the consent of Parliament, in order to maintain a standing army. His
advice had been set aside, and Parliament had been summoned for July 25th. But peace had already
been secured, and immediate supply was no longer necessary. The King prorogued Parliament on
July 29th, but not before the House had passed a resolution against a standing army. This abrupt
dismissal of Parliament, when its presence was no longer called for, inflamed the anger against
Clarendon. Those who had hoped to find an opportunity of pressing home their attack upon him
in Parliament were indignant at the loss of this opportunity. Even the moderate men desired
an explanation, and wished to be relieved of suspicions that arbitrary taxation was once more
to be attempted. Those who were scandalized by the proceedings of the Court were prepared to
make their anger felt, and had no mind to be silenced. The country members had trooped to Westminster
from all parts of England, when long journeys were no easy matter. They returned home in no
pleasant humour, grudging at once the expense which they had borne, and the muzzling to which
they were subjected; [Footnote: See Pepys' Diary, under July 29,1667.] and the murmuring all
fell upon Clarendon's devoted head. It was just as it grew most threatening that his wife's
death plunged him into mourning.

"Within a few days after his wife's death, the King vouchsafed to come to his house to condole
with him, and used many gracious expressions to him." [Footnote: Life, iii. 282.] When Charles
had a scheme on foot that was peculiarly shabby or selfish, he knew how to conceal his intention
under a gracious manner. The limit of his patience to suffer Clarendon's scoldings, or of his
power to resist the pressure of his boon companions, was nearly reached; but he could yet hope
that a solution might be found that would save any vexatious upbraidings. Clarendon might surely
be persuaded to retire, and the peace of the Court would not then be broken by these troublesome
wranglings. Less than a fortnight afterwards, the Duke of York was made the bearer of an astounding
message. The King, he told Clarendon, had asked after him, and had been told by the Duke that
"he was the most disconsolate man he ever saw;" that not only was he grieved for the loss of
his wife, but that he feared he had lost the favour of his master, who seemed of late to have
"withdrawn his countenance from him." Charles had made an evasive answer; but on a later day
he explained himself more fully to the Duke. He knew, he said, from sure information that the
Chancellor was "very odious" to the Parliament, and that at its next meeting an impeachment
would certainly be moved. "Not only had he opposed them in all those things upon which they
had set their hearts, but he had proposed and advised their dissolution." For the good of his
Majesty's service, and for his own preservation, it was imperatively necessary that he should
deliver up the seal. He might choose himself what should be the manner of doing so--whether
it should be done personally, or through an intermediary. The Duke did not deny the danger,
but he lamented the resolution of the King.

Clarendon was profoundly astonished. That the plainness of his criticism and advice had come
to irritate the King, and that a persistent plotting against his influence was on foot, could
hardly have been news to him. Strong as were his reasons for distrusting Charles, he can hardly
have failed to have measured the depths of his dissimulation, or to have realized his readiness
to yield to pressure. But his confidence in his own rectitude made him bold. He refused to
believe that the majority of the House distrusted him, or that his enemies had that commanding
influence which they claimed in order to intimidate the King. He was confident that, be their
malice what it might, the Parliament was not of their mind. In that belief he demanded to speak
with the King, before he delivered up the seal. He could not, indeed, go to the King, as gout
disabled him, and the usages of the day did not permit of his being seen abroad so soon after
the death of his wife; but the Duke did not doubt that he could prevail with the King to do
as he had often done before, and come to Clarendon House. That hope was not fulfilled; the
King declined to visit Clarendon, but was prepared to see him at Whitehall.

It may well be doubted whether Clarendon would not have served his own cause better, and that
with no injury to public interests, had he complied with the request. His health was now broken;
the phalanx of his enemies was overwhelmingly strong; and even had he been allowed to breast
the storm for a few years more, and had he found that courageous support which it was not in
Charles's nature to give, in maintaining the fight, he must have carried on his work in the
face of increasing petulance on the part of his master, and increasing bitterness of venom
from his enemies. The hopes that had inspired him, when he saw the Restoration accomplished,
had long vanished; it could have been with only a shadow of his old courage that he would still
have continued to guide the ship of the State. Charles was shrewd enough in judging the temper
of the nation, and could form a good estimate of the force of the opposition; and there is
no reason to think that he was wrong in supposing that a timely surrender would have saved
his Minister from anything more than the loss of office--a loss to which Clarendon would not
have attached much importance. The very fact that his enemies were obnoxious to the darts of
scandal, and that the nation was watching them jealously; the very probability that many would
have resented the fall of a Minister who had notoriously fought against the flagrant indecencies
of the Court--these were additional reasons why Arlington and his faction would have been content
with the removal of the object of their hatred, and would perhaps have foregone further persecution.
Clarendon's voluntary retirement, upon the private suggestion conveyed from the King, might
have saved him from the hardships that darkened his closing years, and might have prevented
his feeling, in its full force, the poison of the King's ingratitude.

But we must remember other considerations that could not be absent from Clarendon's mind. History
had not yet many instances to show of a Minister who had fallen from high place, and yet was
suffered to lead a private life in peace. It was just a quarter of a century since Essex had
used the menacing words in regard to Strafford, "Stone-dead hath no fellow." Arlington's ill-gotten
influence might have felt itself threatened, if an ex-Chancellor with Clarendon's unrivalled
prestige had been ready to permit his mansion in Piccadilly to be the resort of all who sought
to form a powerful parliamentary opposition. The instinct of self- preservation may well have
suggested to Clarendon that there might be few steps between his abdication and the Tower and
scaffold. But still more, the central principles of his life forbade Clarendon to desert his
post. He might not infrequently be prejudiced; he certainly was often sternly obstinate; he
took too little account of the views of other men, and failed to adapt himself to the changed
circumstances of the day. But never, in all his career, did he compromise with his duty, or
give way to threats of personal danger. Adversity and he had long been familiar, and it may
be doubted whether he would not have preferred to accept those few last years of banishment,
rather than have yielded one jot of his own relentless resolution, or given occasion to his
enemies to boast that they had made him shrink before them. We may doubt the wisdom of his
decision; we cannot refuse our homage to his undaunted courage.

But the breach between the King and the Chancellor, and Clarendon's threatened fall, were already
the theme of Court gossip. The Duchess learned that his resignation had been demanded, and
she, with his old friend Archbishop Sheldon, and the Duke of Albemarle, joined in remonstrating
with the King in no measured terms. Other lesser persons followed their example, and Charles
soon found that the change was not to be carried out without seriously impinging on his own
cherished ease. He protested that he sought nothing but Clarendon's safety, and that he had
believed from what he had heard "of the extreme agony the Chancellor was in upon the death
of his wife, that he had himself desired to be dismissed from his office." Albemarle was sent
to require Clarendon's presence at Whitehall, and seems both to have believed, and to have
desired, that what was but a passing misunderstanding might be easily arranged. The interview,
at which the Duke of York was present, took place upon August 26th. Charles received him graciously
and protested his sense of his high services, and his earnest desire to preserve him from the
malice of his enemies. He did not scruple to add that he "had verily believed" that the demand
for his resignation "had his own consent and desire." He had fancied that his brother concurred,
however much he now protested. It is not impossible to believe that James may have found it
convenient not to speak in exactly the same tone to his father-in-law and to his brother.

But apart from all mistakes as to personal feeling, the King was positive not only as to the
intention of impeachment, but that the fate of Strafford would be the probable result for Clarendon,
if he did not yield to the storm. If he did so yield, Charles was confident that he could preserve
him, and that he could in this way best provide for his own business. He added a consideration
which really gave the lie to what he had just said. "He was sorry that the business had taken
so much air, and was so publicly spoken of, that he knew not how to change his purpose." He
had surely a better reason for not changing his purpose, if he was persuaded that no change
could be made without hazard to the Chancellor's life.

Clarendon's reply to Charles's shuffling was firm and dignified. He had no desire that the
King should change his resolution. But he would not suffer it to be believed that his delivery
of the seal was his own willing act. "He should not think himself a gentleman, if he were willing
to depart, and withdraw himself from office, in a time when he thought his Majesty would have
need of all honest men." Neither was he ready to acknowledge that the deprivation was "in order
to do him good." It was "the greatest ruin he could undergo," and instead of saving him, it
would deliver him, a discredited man, to the malice and vengeance of his enemies. His last
declaration was the most scornful of all.

"He renounced his Majesty's protection or interposition towards his preservation. He feared
no censure, if his Majesty should reveal all that he had counselled him in secret. If any one
could charge him with a crime, he was ready to undergo the punishment."

Such words as these are strange, to be uttered by a falling Minister to his King, when that
King is trying to cloak his own meanness by a pretence of a single-minded desire to save that
Minister; they would be stranger still if they had been used by a man conscious of any guilt.
But Clarendon did not stop there; he turned the tables fiercely upon the King.

Charles had pretended to be working for his servant's safety, and in accordance with what he
thought that he desired. That servant brushes aside his subterfuges, renounces his protection,
and plainly tells him that the course he proposes to follow will stamp him as an ungrateful
master, and drive every honest man to abandon his service. No wonder that the King seemed "very
much troubled." He pleaded the power of Parliament, and how he was "at their mercy." Clarendon
could only advise him not to act the coward. He had a warning in the fate of Richard II. of
what faint- heartedness in a King might bring. In his last thrust Clarendon forgot--as he himself
admits--the bounds of prudence. "In the warmth of this relation, he found a seasonable opportunity
to mention the Lady with some reflections and cautions, which he might more advisedly have
declined." The close of his final interview was perhaps an ill-chosen moment for wounding the
King's pride by another reference to the foul-mouthed termagant, who now swayed the Court,
and trampled on her royal lover with the usual insolence of the pampered courtesan.

The visit of the King and the Duke to Clarendon's chamber at Whitehall, where the interview
took place, lasted two hours, and at its end the King rose in silence and retired ill-pleased.
Meantime the tongues of the Court gossips were busy. When the conference closed, the garden
was filled with a crowd of courtiers, eager to watch the countenance of the King. As the Chancellor
left the presence of his master, "the Lady, the Lord Arlington, and Mr. May, [Footnote: Bab
May, the Keeper of the Privy Purse, and minister to Charles's pleasures. See ante, p. 244.]
looked together out of her open window with great gaiety and triumph, which all people observed."
The fallen Minister could spare a moment's attention, to mark the dramatic fitness of the scene.
[Footnote: Clarendon, Life, iii. 291. Pepys gives us the scene with more detail (Diary, August
27). To those of his more sober-minded counsellors, who spoke for the Chancellor, the King
professed much kindness for him, but "he had made himself odious to the Parliament, and was
no more capable to do him service." The Lady, Arlington, and Bab May still honoured him by
their fervent denunciation, and by their sure prediction of his speedy fall. Evelyn visited
him the day after his interview with the King, and "found him in his bedchamber, very sad."
"He had enemies at Court," Evelyn goes on, "especially the buffoons and ladies of pleasure,
because he had thwarted some of them and stood in their way; I could name some of them." The
next day Evelyn dined with him, and found him "pretty well in heart, though now many of his
friends and sycophants abandoned him." Clarendon knew the world too well to be surprised or
grieved by such abandonment, or to allow it to affect his fortitude.

The Duke of York, none of the most adroit or persuasive of advocates, still stood his friend,
and endeavoured to bend the purpose of the King. Sir William Coventry, always--although afterwards
he disclaimed it to Pepys--one of the most pronounced of Clarendon's enemies, found it necessary
to resign his post of secretary to the Duke, and the place was filled by one whom Clarendon
suggested. It may be doubted whether the change was meant as more than an outward sign to Clarendon
that he still retained his son-in-law's respect. The fight between his friends and enemies
still proceeded apace. When the Duke of York attempted to stem the tide against him, Charles
only replied, "that he had gone too far to retire; that he should be looked on as a child if
he receded from his purpose." Selfishness and love of ease blunted Charles's judgment; they
did not interfere with that obstinacy which was a dominant trait in the family character. Only
two days later he took the decisive step, and sent Secretary Morrice with a warrant under the
sign manual, to demand the seal.[Footnote: The seal was entrusted to Sir Orlando Bridgeman,
as Lord Keeper.] The Chancellor delivered it "with all expressions of duty to the King." If
Charles felt the stings of conscience for his sorry action, he could comfort himself with the
congratulations of the Court pandar, Bab May. That worthy fell upon his knees, kissed the King's
hand, and told him "that he was now King, which he had never been before." [Footnote: See Pepys,
Diary, November 11, 1667.] It was an odd change, from the dignified loyalty of Clarendon to
the fulsome flattery of Bab May. Even the scanty pride that had survived in one degraded by
sottish debauchery might have been nauseated by the contrast.

Clarendon was mistaken if he thought that compliance with the King's request had either satisfied
the rancour of his enemies, or secured for him the King's support. At first he hoped the storm
was over, and after an interval sufficient to show that he was conscious of no guilt, and sought
to hide himself from no inquiry, he intended to retire to the country, and live as a private
gentleman. He had no fear either of Parliament or of his countrymen, and was ready to abide
their question. He heard that the King dreaded his assumption of the part of leader of a Parliamentary
opposition, and hastened to assure him that he had no such intention. His friends still resorted
to his house, and those who respected themselves declined, at the bidding of an ignoble clique,
to lessen the signs of their respect for him. The King had not courage enough to forbid such
demonstrations; but at the instigation of his new confidants he sulked and uttered vague hints,
to which Clarendon's enemies gave open and more definite utterance. They had secured the cordial
alliance of Buckingham, by persuading him that Clarendon had been at the root of his recent
prosecution. Thus reinforced they resolved to make their vengeance more complete.

The King had induced Clarendon to yield, as the only means by which the wrath of Parliament
could be stayed, and that had undoubtedly been the pretext put forward to the King by Arlington,
and those who acted with him. But now they went further. So long as Clarendon remained at liberty,
they dreaded his influence, and persuaded the King that he would spread suspicion and disaffection,
and would obstruct every design of the Government. Charles was weak enough to believe a slander,
which no one who has studied Clarendon's life and character can for one moment accept, and
which Clarendon himself had expressly repudiated. When the Duke of York expostulated, Charles
shuffled and prevaricated after his wont. "All might have been quiet, if only the Chancellor
had been more practicable; but he had delayed so long, that now the King was compelled 'in
the vindication of his honour,' to give some reason for what he had done." Those who praised
the Chancellor so loudly were reflecting upon himself. But if he were freed from these inconvenient
demonstrations, the Chancellor would not suffer, and he would use his sons as kindly as ever,
Charles was not rancorous, but his gleams of good nature only mark his cowardice more strongly.

In his Speech at the opening of Parliament on October loth, the King attempted to smooth matters
over. "There had been miscarriages;" but he "had altered his counsels;" "what had been done
amiss had been by the advice of the person whom he had removed from his counsels, and with
whom he should not hereafter advise." No man ever betrayed a faithful servant with more consummate
self-abasement.

The House was asked by some to thank the King "for removing the Chancellor," but it was thought
premature to do so, and a committee was appointed to draft a reply. The King--so Clarendon's
enemies represented-- was offended by the omission, and the Court party pressed for a specific
vote, which should endorse his action in the dismissal. That was carried after a keen debate,
and by similar Court action it was pushed through the House of Lords. The Duke remonstrated,
but was told by the King "that it should go the worse for the Chancellor if his friends opposed."
We need not be surprised that Charles doubled the weakness of the coward by the allied blustering
of the bully.

Again the King thought that he had satisfied the rancour of Clarendon's enemies, and had vindicated
sufficiently the petty jealousy which he himself still felt at the memory of the Chancellor's
sway. But he soon found that he had to satisfy more exigent taskmasters. Clarendon's power,
they urged, was only scotched, not killed. His influence would soon be supreme, and "he would
come to the House with more credit to do mischief." Grounds of accusation were greedily sought
for, and readily supplied, [Footnote: Briefly stated, these were-- 1. That the Chancellor had
advised the King to dissolve the Parliament and said there could be no further need of Parliaments.
That it would be best for the King to raise a standing army, and govern by that. 2. That he
had reported that the King was a Papist in his heart. 3. That he had advised the grant of a
Charter to the Canary Company for which he had received great sums of money. 4. That he had
raised great sums of money by the sale of offices. 5. That he had introduced an arbitrary government
into his Majesty's several plantations. 6. That he had issued quo warrantos against most corporations
till they paid him good sums of money. 7. That he received large sums for the settlement of
Ireland. 8. That he had deluded the King, and betrayed the nation in all foreign treaties.
9. That he had farmed the customs at under rates, in return for money. 10. That he had received
bribes from the Vintners, to free them from penalties due. 11. That he had raised a great state,
and got grants of Crown lands. 12. That he had advised the sale of Dunkirk. 13. That he had
caused letters under the great seal to be altered. 14. That he had arbitrarily raised questions
of titles to land. 15. That he had been the author of the fatal counsel of dividing the fleet
in June, 1666. 16. That he had been in correspondence with Cromwell during the King's exile.]
and these contrivances soon resulted in a violent harangue from Edward Seymour, who now made
himself conspicuous in the attack upon the fallen Minister. It is not easy to trace the special
source of Seymour's violence, but we can find sufficient to account for it in the character
of the man himself. He was of illustrious descent, as the head of the great house of Seymour;
[Footnote: Seymour was the direct representative of the great Duke of Somerset, the Lord Protector;
but the Dukedom had, by special remainder, passed to a younger son, over the head of Edward
Seymour's ancestor. "You are of the family of the Duke of Somerset," said William III. when
he was first presented. "Pardon me, Sire," answered Seymour, "the Duke of Somerset is of my
family." ] possessed of abundant wealth, and unbounded territorial interest in the west. But
his birth and wealth were accompanied by overweening pride and ambition, and by a restlessness
of rancorous temper that made him for more than a generation a thorn in the side of every successive
Government. With high ability, he combined the character of a selfish voluptuary; and although
possessed of great wealth, his support was always to be bought by the offer of a place, and
he did not disdain the malpractices of a cozener in his eagerness to increase his store. After
serving as Speaker, he remained in the Parliament, over which he had presided, as a captious
and unruly partisan, forgetting alike dignity and honour in his factious virulence. Such was
the spokesman chosen by Clarendon's enemies to frame the indictment. It was enough for Seymour
that the task seemed likely to gratify his own ambition. His pride of birth and station no
doubt gave a zest to the attack upon one who had raised himself from the smaller squirearchy
to the place of foremost Minister. The Chancellor, he avowed vaguely, had designed to govern
by a standing army. Seymour swore that he would produce ample proofs, and meantime he urged
that a charge of treason should be laid against Clarendon in the House of Lords. The wiser
spirits, and those who preserved some regard for the decencies of justice, refused to assent
to a course so flagrantly illegal, upon the unsupported clamour of an arrogant youth.

After protracted debate a committee was appointed to examine precedents in cases of impeachment.
On October 29th, it presented its report, and another keen debate ensued. Some argued that
they should prefer a general impeachment, without adducing any special charge; others, like
Maynard, argued that "common fame is no ground to accuse a man where matter of fact is not
clear; to say an evil is done, and therefore this man hath done it, is strange in morality,
more in logic." As a result, another committee was appointed to reduce the charge against the
Chancellor into heads; and that committee then formulated their charges in seventeen heads.
Again a debate ensued upon these charges. They were discussed seriatim, and the sixteenth head
was reached without one being found to involve a charge of treason.

But the zealots had now gone too far to turn back. Another of the band, conspicuous for his
profligacy even in a Court of libertines, Lord Vaughan, the son of the Earl of Carbery, [Footnote:
With bitterness, which is perhaps pardonable, Clarendon gives him a line of unflattering portraiture:
"A person of as ill a face as fame, his looks and his manners both extreme bad" (Clarendon,
Life, iii. 317).] undertook to prove another charge. The Chancellor, he avowed, had discovered
the King's secrets to the enemy. He was prepared to prove it, and, to stimulate the virulence
of those who were bent on Clarendon's ruin, Vaughan passed the whisper along the benches, that
this was in truth the source of the King's anger against him. Charles, it would seem, had dissembled
the cause of his own jealousy to his Minister; he was content that it should be suggested as
a new incentive to that Minister's foes. Opposition was trampled upon, and, with unseemly haste,
on November 12th, Seymour was sent to the House of Lords to impeach the Earl of Clarendon at
the bar, and to desire that his person be secured.

A new stage in the fight now began. The House of Lords, weak as, in Clarendon's opinion, it
had often been in yielding to the encroachments of the Commons, yet contained many members
who were not prepared to abandon the very semblance of justice, and of dignified procedure,
either at the bidding of a Court clique, or before the unseemly rancour of a party in the House
of Commons. They urged that the demand of the Commons should be peremptorily refused, and they
maintained their ground so firmly before the blustering of those who were ready not only to
commit, but to convict, the Chancellor, in obedience to the dominant faction, that the debate
was perforce adjourned. The delay continued, and the dispute raged fiercely. To the persecution
of the Chancellor there was now added the additional zest of a struggle between the two Houses,
All business was suspended while the fight went on. The angry clique saw all their schemes
threatened, the King found his cherished ease disturbed; by some means or other the wrangle
must cease. To those who refused to bend to the storm, hints were conveyed that they were incurring
the anger of the King. Desperate plans were discussed; and if other means failed, a guard of
soldiers might be sent to arrest the Chancellor and convey him to the Tower. How far Charles
was privy to these designs, it is impossible to say. Reverence for the law would be no potent
motive either to him, or to the gang who had for the moment secured his confidence.

His friends urged Clarendon to make his escape. They saw the danger increasing, and they guessed
that no ill-timed interruption would be placed in his way. Such an escape would relieve the
King of a vexing situation, and would satisfy those enemies who might, by means of it, effectually
destroy his reputation and his influence. An escape would doubtless have been construed as
an evidence of guilt; but to give way to the malignity of his persecutors would at least have
been better than life-long imprisonment, or death upon Tower Hill. To yield to such advice
was not in keeping with Clarendon's character. He was eager to stand his trial. Rightly or
wrongly, he did unquestionably feel absolute confidence in the support of his countrymen at
large. Even were he proved to have been mistaken, and were the power of his enemies greater
than he reckoned, he was yet ready to bear the consequences so long as his good name was secure.
Were he to fly, he would abase his pride before his foes, and would give just ground for impugning
his innocence. Nay, more, how could he trust that he would not be captured at the first attempt
to escape? It might only be a trap laid by his enemies, who would bring him to trial with that
frustrated attempt as their securest evidence of his guilt. Rumours were rife of the King's
growing irritation, of the specific charges to be preferred, of the proposed constitution of
the commission by which he was to be tried. The Duke of York, still faithful to the Chancellor's
cause, resolved to seek an explanation from the King. He asked if his Majesty was determined
either to have the Chancellor's life, or his condemnation to perpetual imprisonment. Charles
repudiated with his usual facility, either idea, and swore that he wished the matter were ended.
Had the Chancellor, asked the Duke, ever proposed to govern by an army? "Never," answered the
King; "on the contrary, his fault was that he always insisted too much upon the law." The Duke
asked again, if he might say as much to others. "With all my heart," said the King.

The statement of the King was creditable, and gave hopes to Clarendon's friends. But when the
words were repeated, they were found to be disheartening to the conspirators, who thereupon
carried their complaints to the King. "They had tried to serve him, and now knew not how to
behave themselves." Their weapons would be gone, if the King indulged in such inconvenient
candour. The messenger was repudiated by the King with just as much readiness as he had shown
in giving his original assurances. The Duke remonstrated, and the King's only answer was "that
he would be more careful hereafter what he said to him." The Duke might surely have learned
that the King's candid truths were often uttered only to be repudiated when convenient.

Once more the petty scandals of licentious intrigue obtrude themselves at the most critical
juncture of a grave historic drama. In no transaction where Charles was concerned could such
sordid details be long absent. The King's fancy had shortly before been attracted by a new
denizen of the "Lady's" drawing room, and he had become so infatuated with the charms of Miss
Stuart, [Footnote: Frances Teresa Stuart, born in 1648, was the daughter of Dr. Walter Stuart,
a cadet of the House of Blantyre. Her father, an ardent Royalist, fled from the vengeance of
Parliament, and Frances was brought up at Paris, where her beauty and peculiar charm attracted
even royal attention. When she joined the household of Queen Catherine in England, her loveliness
captivated all hearts, and stirred the fire of passion even in such a jaded voluptuary as the
King. Her subtle combination of virgin simplicity and adroit prudence only inflamed him the
more. For once he was consumed by an ardent love, and tortured by a real jealousy. Hence his
anger at the runaway match and all concerned in it.

Frances Stuart steered her course with safety through many quicksands, and died, not without
honour, in 1702.] that he had seriously contemplated a divorce, which might enable him to offer
her those terms of lawful marriage which could alone overcome her stubborn virtue, or her ambitious
prudence. Whether any such designs were actually entertained or not, the amorous hopes of the
King were speedily disappointed by the lady's marriage with the Duke of Richmond. The royal
lover was ignominiously defeated in the only sort of rivalry which seriously touched him, and
the pride of the jaded voluptuary was more easily wounded than the honour of the King. His
vanity was ruffled, and nothing was easier for Clarendon's enemies than to inspire Charles
with the belief that his Chancellor had arranged the marriage as the best means of stopping
his licentious freak. The story was absolutely untrue; but the certainty that it had been conveyed
to the King [Footnote: An accidental meeting of the King with Clarendon's eldest son, Lord
Cornbury, at the door of Miss Stuart's lodging, contributed, it is said, to the King's belief
of the Chancellor's agency in the matter. Ludlow can have had no personal knowledge of the
circumstances. But he does not scruple to describe the marriage as a contrivance of Clarendon,
"that old Volpone." Volpone was a character in one of Ben Jonson's plays.] induced Clarendon
to write to Charles a letter which might well have stirred remorse even in a heart as hardened
by selfishness as his--

"MAY IT PLEASE YOUR MAJESTY,

"I am so broken under the daily insupportable instances of your Majesty's terrible displeasure,
that I know not what to do, hardly what to wish. The crimes which are objected against me,
however passionately soever pursued, and with circumstances very unusual, do not in the least
degree fright me. God knows I am innocent in every particular as I ought to be; and I hope
your Majesty knows enough of me to believe that I had never a violent appetite for money that
could corrupt me. But, alas! your Majesty's declared anger and indignation deprives me of the
comfort and support even in my own innocence, and exposes me to the rage and fury of those
who have some excuse for being my enemies; whom I have sometimes displeased, when (and only
then) your Majesty believed them not to be your friends. I hope they may be changed, I am sure
I am not, but have the same duty, passion, and affection for you that I had when you thought
it most unquestionable, and which was and is as great as ever man had for any mortal creature.
I should die in peace (and truly I do heartily wish that God Almighty would free you from further
trouble, by taking me to Himself) if I could know or guess at the ground of your believing
that I have said or done somewhat, I have neither said nor done. If it be for anything my Lord
Berkeley hath reported, which I know he hath said to many, though being charged with it by
me he did as positively disclaim it; I am as innocent in that whole affair, and gave no more
advice or counsel or countenance in it, than the child that is not born; which your Majesty
seemed once to believe, when I took notice to you of the report, and when you considered how
totally I was a stranger to the persons mentioned, to either of whom I never spake a word,
or received message from either in my life. And this I protest to your Majesty is true, as
I have hope in Heaven; and that I have never wilfully offended your Majesty in my life, and
do upon my knees beg your pardon for any overbold or saucy expressions I have ever used to
you; which, being a natural disease in old servants who have received too much countenance,
I am sure hath always proceeded from the zeal and warmth of the most sincere affection and duty.

"I hope your Majesty believes, that the sharp chastisement I have received from the best natured
and most bountiful master in the world, and whose kindness alone made my condition these many
years supportable, hath enough mortified me as to this world; and that I have not the presumption
or the madness to imagine or desire ever to be admitted to any employment or trust again. But
I do most humbly beseech your Majesty, by the memory of your father, who recommended me to
you with some testimony, and by your own gracious reflection upon some one service I may have
performed in my life, that hath been acceptable to you; that you will by your royal power and
interposition put a stop to this severe prosecution against me, and that my concernment may
give no longer interruption to the great affairs of the Kingdom; but that I may spend the small
remainder of my life, which cannot hold long, in some parts beyond the seas, never to return,
where I will pray for your Majesty, and never suffer the least diminution in the duty and obedience
of,

"May it please your Majesty,

"Your Majesty's most humble and most obedient subject and servant,

"CLARENDON.

"From my house this 16th of November."

To our ears these words have something of exaggerated humility; as a fact they only clothe
in the formal language of the day, that overflowing and sincere loyalty which Clarendon wore
on a background of indomitable pride. That pride was so fundamental, that the high-sounding
adulation is made almost more palpable by the evident restraint which he places upon his underlying
indignation. His love for the King was honestly felt; but it was the fruit only of long past
memories, of the tenderest associations of his life, of his profound reverence for his first
master. He scarcely even recognized how utter was his contempt for the man himself, as he now
was, with all his vulgar licentiousness, all his superficial good nature, all his essential
selfishness and cynicism. Clarendon himself would have been surprised had he known how much
of that contempt he had unconsciously revealed, by an occasional phrase, or a half-perceptible
stroke of sarcasm. The effect of the letter was plain enough, and it conveyed a covert defiance
from the fallen Minister, both to his faithless master and to his triumphant foes. "Withdraw
your charges, and I shall free you of my presence, conscious of my own innocence; but do not
expect that I shall slip away like a scared criminal to avoid the consequences of my guilt,
or that your cowardly hints have power to move me."

Charles was free to accept the letter as a passionate appeal from a loyal servant to all that
there was of self-respect and honour in his breast. If he so accepted it, he acted as only
the boundless selfishness of cynicism could have suggested. He read the letter, held it over
a candle until it was consumed, and then calmly said that he wondered that the Chancellor did
not withdraw himself. But, indeed, we can scarcely doubt that the King was astute enough to
see that the letter was, in truth, a note of defiance. If he was to play the craven, Charles
was bid to play it in the light of day. To such a master of shuffling and evasion, the clear-sighted
determination which made Clarendon insist upon a point of form in demanding an open order to
depart, and which compelled his refusal to allow a triumph to his foes, might well seem incomprehensible.
The result was only that Clarendon was besieged with new suggestions that he should escape,
by a flight which it was more than hinted would be connived at. Charles's unkingly task was
to bring about by hint and stratagem, what he was not man enough to prescribe by order. He
satisfied Clarendon's enemies by openly proclaiming his anger at the Chancellor's delays; he
kept up a pretence of compunction to Clarendon's friends, and begged them to persuade him how
wise and prudent flight would be.

Herbert Croft, now Bishop of Hereford, was one of the emissaries of the King. [Footnote: Croft
belonged to a Roman Catholic family of some importance. He had first been educated at St. Omer's,
although afterwards he was admitted to the Anglican Church, and became an object of Laud's
special patronage. This naturally secured to him the favour of Clarendon, and, as a fact, Clarendon
informs us that he had placed Croft under heavy obligations. But the friendship had not continued.
In later years Croft showed latitudinarian tendencies in his writings, which may have been
apparent in his conversation at an earlier date, and may well have alienated Clarendon. The
fact, however, that Croft belonged to a family of high rank and large possessions may still
more probably have induced him to feel jealous of the quick rise of the more plebeian Edward
Hyde, and may have bred ill-will between them.] He was no pleasing agent to Clarendon. He was
not churchman only, but also an aristocrat, of great wealth, whose jealousy of Clarendon's
newly acquired rank had made him, like Seymour, keen to reduce the pride of one whom he deemed
an upstart, and led him to show ingratitude for Clarendon's early patronage. He sought an interview
with the Chancellor, through Clarendon's early and trusted friend, George Morley, now Bishop
of Winchester. He explained his mission with all the awkwardness of one who had a double part
to play. "He had good authority for what he had to say." But he shunned any mention of the
King's name, until his more candid brother, the Bishop of Winchester, blurted out, to Croft's
annoyance, his previous confession to the Bishop that he came by the orders of the King. He
could not contradict the other, but could only repeat that he could not be so mad as to interpose
without authority. The Chancellor was meant to infer the truth, but he was to have no express
assurance of it. All Croft could say was "that if Clarendon would withdraw himself beyond the
seas, he would pledge 'his own salvation,' that no interruption to his journey would be given."

The Chancellor was inconveniently deaf to innuendoes. If he had the commands of the King, or
clear evidence that the King desired it, he would face even the discredit of retreat. Without
such orders or such assurance, he would consult his own honour, and abide the issue. Clarendon
was determined to play only with the cards upon the table. Croft fell back upon his former
subterfuge, and at length it was agreed that Clarendon should have a pass under the royal warrant
which would ensure him against misconstruction. So the interview ended.

But he had not sounded the depths of Charles's cowardice. Word came that the King could not
grant the pass; it would incense the Parliament; he could not face the risk that he asked his
aged and discarded servant to run. Clarendon held to his former resolution. He would not obey
even his sovereign in a trick. His decision may have been stubborn and ill-advised; it was
at least courageous. His friends vainly sought to bend his will. Ruvigny, the new French ambassador,
who had come to deal with Clarendon as first Minister, in his master's affairs, and had soon
discerned his altered situation, sent word to him of the intrigues he found at Court, and advised
his withdrawal to France, where he would find a ready welcome. Clarendon remained immovable;
and all the bluster of enemies, like Seymour, who swore that the mob would wreak their vengeance
on Clarendon's adherents, failed to crush hia will. With a pardonable triumph, Clarendon tells
us how he scorned to take a mean advantage which offered itself against his adversaries. Arlington
had made many enemies by his insolence, and Coventry was deeply involved in charges of malversation
in dealing with the monies of the navy, and in selling offices in the Admiralty. Clarendon's
friends urged him to divert the storm from himself by betraying the misdeeds of these his foes.
The suggestion was made in vain. "No provocation," he declared, "should dispose him to do anything
which would not become him." These men were Privy Councillors, and of what he saw amiss in
them, he could inform the King. It was no business of his to protect his own innocence by counter
charges. He would leave them to their fate. He would neither cower before the storm, nor divert
it by spreading scandal against others.

It seemed as if the deadlock between the two Houses, and the tortuous twistings of the King
and the angry faction that had acquired his confidence, had come to an insoluble entanglement.

The knot was at length loosed by the Duke of York's intervention. James had now recovered from
an attack of small-pox, which had temporarily laid him aside, and he received the personal
commands of the King to "advise the Chancellor to be gone." The Duke had no alternative but
to convey this message, through the Bishop of Winchester, to Clarendon. The King had yielded
to Clarendon's terms, so far as to send, through his brother, what was next to a personal order.
Hyde, however reluctant, had no alternative but to obey. On the night of November 29th, he
took coach, with two servants only. A boat was ready for him at Erith, and he there embarked.
He had a stormy passage, which lasted three days and nights, and, sorely against his will,
as he knew the evil construction that would arise from his resting on French soil, he was compelled
to land at Calais.

When the Chancellor left, he deemed it right in the interests of his own honour, to leave a
letter of explanation, which was read to the House of Lords by the Earl of Denbigh. [Footnote:
An early friendship, long interrupted by estrangement during the Civil War, perhaps accounted
for Clarendon's choice of an intermediary. Basil Feilding, in age a contemporary of Clarendon,
was the son of William Feilding, whose marriage to the sister of the first Duke of Buckingham
had procured him advancement at Court and high rank in the peerage as Earl of Denbigh. That
Earl had joined the Royalist forces, and died of wounds received in battle in 1643. His son
had, in 1628, been called to the House of Lords as Lord Feilding; but for some reason, in spite
of his antecedents, and the strong remonstrances of his family, he joined the side of the Parliament,
and became one of their leading commanders. When Commissioner at Uxbridge, in 1645, he renewed
his old intercourse with Hyde, who formed a high estimate of his abilities, and Denbigh explained
to Hyde his desire to get rid of his present allies, and do something for the royal cause.
"If any conjunction fell out," he said, "in which by losing his life he might preserve the
King, he would embrace the occasion, otherwise he would shift the best he could for himself"
(Hist. of Rebellion, viii. 246). He was one of several peers whose pride was wounded, and whose
resentment against Parliament was aroused, by the injury to their own order. He took no part
in the King's trial, and gradually withdrew from the Parliamentary side. In 1660, he managed
to prove himself of sufficient use to the Royalists, to secure indemnity, and a certain degree
of favour. He retained enough of his former reputation as an ally of Parliament to be characterized
by Ludlow as "a generous man, and a lover of his country."]

It grieved him, he said, that he should be the cause of difference between the two Houses,
and of obstruction to the business of the King. It was his misfortune to stand accused of two
charges, neither of which had any foundation: that he had enriched himself wrongfully, and
that he had been sole and chief Minister, and was thus responsible for all miscarriages. As
to the first, he could only avow that he had received nothing, except by the bounty of the
King, beyond the lawful perquisites of his office, as regulated by the traditions of the best
holders of that office. For no courtesies or favours, of which he had been the medium, had
he ever received as much as five pounds. He was now more than £20,000 in debt, and, when his
debts were paid, his estate was not worth two thousand a year. All that he possessed did not
amount to what the King in his bounty had granted him--the gift of £20,000 when he first came
over; £6000 from the Crown estates in Ireland, and a yearly allowance to supplement the scanty
profits of his office. As Minister, he had only shared power and responsibility with others;
and it was notorious that, after the dismissal of Secretary Nicholas, his influence had been
greatly diminished. The new appointments to the Privy Council had been, none of them, given
to his intimates, and many of them had gone to his most implacable enemies. As for the mischief
of the war, it had been undertaken against his earnest advice, and his efforts to negotiate
alliances, and to introduce order into the conduct of the war, had been thwarted by the very
men who now charged him with the results of their own misdeeds. The conduct of foreign affairs
rested, not with him, but with the secretaries: and so far from having been sole Minister,
his advice had, of recent years especially, been often opposed, solely because it was his.
The storm now raised against him was due only to his having discharged his duty without fear
or favour. He closes with these dignified words--

"This being my present condition, I do most humbly beseech your lordships to retain a favourable
opinion of me, and to believe me to be innocent from those foul aspersions, until the contrary
shall be proved: which I am sure can never be by any man worthy to be believed. And since the
distemper of the time, and the difference between the two Houses in the present debate, with
the power and malice of my enemies, who give out that I shall prevail with his Majesty to prorogue
or dissolve this Parliament in displeasure, and threaten to expose me to the rage and fury
of the people, may make me looked upon as the cause which obstructs the King's service, and
the unity and peace of the kingdom; I humbly beseech your lordships, that I may not forfeit
your favour and protection, by withdrawing myself from so powerful a persecution, in hopes
I may be able, by such withdrawing, hereafter to appear and make my defence, when his Majesty's
justice, to which I shall always submit, may not be obstructed or controlled by the power and
malice of those who have sworn my destruction."

Not now only, but in the later years of his lonely banishment, Clarendon's unbending courage
saved him from despair, and he continued to hope for brighter days. [Footnote: In his preface
to his commentary on the Psalms, addressed to his children, in 1670, he still hopes "that I
shall yet outlive this storm."] But he underrated the rancour and the twistings of his enemies.
The very men who had used every device to force him to retire, and who knew that he was at
Calais, now hypocritically urged that the ports should be stopped, and pretended to be eager
for his apprehension. The Commons urged that he should be committed, in absence, on the general
charge of treason. The Lords declined to accede to their request, and, in impotent revenge,
the Commons resolved that his apology should be publicly burned by the hangman. In this innocuous
resolution the Lords were persuaded to concur.

From Calais Clarendon addressed the following memorable letter to the University of Oxford:--

"GOOD MR. VICE-CHANCELLOR,

"Having found it necessary to transport myself out of England, and not knowing when it will
please God that I shall return again, it becomes me to take care that the University may not
be without the service of a person better able to be of use to them, than I am like to be.
And I do therefore hereby surrender the office of Chancellor into the hands of the said University,
to the end that they may make choice of some other person better qualified to assist and protect
them than I am. I am sure he can never be more affectionate towards it. "Calais, Dec. 17, 1667."

Archbishop Sheldon, his life-long friend, was elected as his successor.

Clarendon stayed on at Calais, at a loss where he should turn. He knew the suspicions which
he might arouse, if he resorted to Paris, and meanwhile wrote to the Earl of St. Albans, and
desired to know whether he might proceed to Rouen. The Earl of St. Albans acted as the representative
of the Queen Dowager, [Footnote: To whom he was generally believed to be married.] and from
her Clarendon could scarcely expect a cordial welcome. St. Albans' reply was cold, but Clarendon
learned both from him, and from the Minister Louvois, that he had full permission to proceed
to Rouen. At first he received all courteous attention from the representatives of the French
Court. His only desire was to reach some mild climate before the rigour of winter, which he
was in no condition to sustain, should set in. With all proper respect and escort, he passed
on to Boulogne; from thence to Montreuil, and next day to Abbeville. On Christmas Eve he reached
Dieppe, within a day's journey of Rouen. The gates of Dieppe were opened at an unusually early
hour next morning, at his request, to allow him to begin that journey betimes. But, before
he reached Rouen, a change had come in his treatment by the French authorities. As he approached
the halting-place about noon, he was stopped by a gentleman on horseback, who inquired whether
"the Chancellor of England was in the coach," and, on learning that he was, presented to him
a letter from the French King, desiring him to follow the directions which the bearer would
give him. These were, that his presence in France might occasion a breach between the Crowns;
that he was to make what speed he could to quit the dominions of the king; and the bearer was
to escort him, for his accommodation, until he saw him out of France.

Clarendon was sorely perplexed by this unexpected message, which was explained by the negotiations
now on foot between the French and English Crowns. It was with difficulty that he persuaded
his appointed escort to accompany him to Rouen, rather than return to Dieppe, which the escort
would have preferred as the shortest way out of France. The journey to Rouen was a hard one,
and the Chancellor was bruised by repeated overturnings of the coach. He was in no state to
make forced journeys, and begged time to write to Paris, and ask for less stringent orders.
With difficulty this small concession was obtained. But the reply from the French Court only
brought more peremptory orders to expedite his departure. His health was now grievously broken.
The severity of the weather, the rapidity of his journeys under the most trying conditions,
above all, the anxieties and perplexities of his position, had brought on an aggravated attack
of the gout, and he was unable either to stand or walk. Again he pleaded for that delay and
consideration which even the most meagre courtesy and the barest humanity regard as the prerogative
of the sick. He had no wish to linger on the inhospitable soil of France, and desired only
to reach Avignon, so that he might be beyond the King's boundary; but he begged at least to
be allowed to rest at Orleans. The reply was barbarous in its peremptoriness. "His Majesty
was much displeased that he had not made more haste; if he chose to pass to Avignon, he might
rest one day in ten, which was all his Majesty would allow."

Meanwhile the virulence of his enemies at home was as relentless as the barbarity of the French
Court. The party which still adhered to him in both houses was sufficiently large to be formidable
to his opponents, who could only feel themselves secure by his perpetual banishment. On the
pretext that he had fled from justice, a Bill of Banishment was passed through both Houses,
by which he was pronounced incapable of returning to the country unless he surrendered before
February 1st. It might have been thought that it transcended even the bounds of Charles's shifty
cowardice, to give his assent to a Bill which imposed a punishment on his late Minister, solely
because he had done what the King commanded him to do. But even to this depth the King descended.
It was in vain that the Duke of York urged that it was the King's own order that betrayed Clarendon
into making that escape from which his own judgment was so averse. Charles could only plead
"that the condescension was necessary for his own good," and that he must compound with those
who would else press for worse. Charles shared in that fantastic pride of his family that often
betrayed them to their fall; in him it was united with a depth of abasement to which only the
selfish libertine could descend. What is strangest of all is, that a man guilty of such meanness
should yet have attracted to himself such wealth of generous loyalty.

When the news arrived that the Bill of Banishment had received the King's assent, Clarendon
resolved to make all haste back to England, before the appointed day. All thought of Avignon
was abandoned, and, at the risk of his life, he pushed on to Calais. There he arrived on the
last day of January, a broken, and, it might well appear, a dying man. He was carried helpless
to bed, and there lay unable even to read the letters from England, and incapable of thought
and of speech. Even the wretched emissary of the French Court, Le Fonde, was fain to leave
him for a few days, on what seemed to be his death-bed; but fresh orders compelled him again
to undertake the irksome task of harrying the sick-bed of a dying man. "He must leave town
next day; a few hours would carry him into Spanish territory."

Clarendon's old heat of temper burst out once more. The conversation was in Latin, and the
Chancellor's sick brain did not at once supply him with sufficient store of classical phrases
to express his wrath. At last he told the Court emissary "that he must bring orders from God
Almighty, as well as from the King, before he could obey." The struggle still went on: on the
one side, the unlucky envoy of the Court was compelled to pursue his degrading persecution;
on the other hand, Clarendon and his physicians urged the murderous cruelty of the King's orders.
At length, in a last burst of passion, he told the King's messenger that, though the King was
a great and powerful prince, he was not yet so omnipotent as to make a dying man strong enough
to undertake a journey. The King might send him a prisoner to England, or carry his dead body
into Spanish territory; but he would not be the author of his own death by undertaking a journey
which was beyond his powers. Le Fonde was left to do his best to reconcile the ruthless orders
of his master with Clarendon's resolute appeal to a power higher than that of kings.

But of a sudden the scene changed. The negotiations between England and France had failed,
and the French Court no longer found themselves compelled to sacrifice courtesy, and even humanity,
in order to conciliate a hopeful alliance. They had harassed Clarendon to please the English
Court; they were now to pay him every courtesy in order to show their carelessness of English
interests. The French Government had, perhaps, found that a common hatred of Clarendon was
not an enduring bond amongst his enemies, and that the new administration of England rested
on no very secure foundation. A letter now reached him from the French Minister, announcing
that nothing was further from his Christian Majesty's wish than in any way to endanger his
health. All France was open to him, and the King's subjects would have orders to pay him all
honour. Le Fonde rejoiced at this relief from a thankless task. He came now to say that he
was to attend the Chancellor, only to receive his orders.

This happy alteration relieved Clarendon of his worst anxieties. He was no longer a hunted
fugitive, but an honoured guest. The rancour of his enemies in England, however bitter, had
now spent its force, and he could despise it. His sons still held their places at Court. His
household now attended him, and the savage provisions of the Act of Banishment no longer prevented
the easy passage of correspondence between Clarendon and his family and friends.

He was still grievously ill, and for six weeks more be was confined to bed. But as his health
recovered he determined still to pass to Avignon, by way of Rouen, and to take a course of
the waters of Bourbon on the way. He was not prepared to place undue trust in the new-found
courtesy of the French Court.

It was on April 3rd, 1668, that he was strong enough to begin his journey. We are again reminded
of the hardships of travel in the France of the Grand Monarch, when we read of repeated overturnings
of his coach, and of perils both by land and water that pursued the poor Chancellor, even under
the careful escort of attentive Court messengers. It was not till April 23rd that he left Rouen,
and the stay for the next day was at Evreux, where he had a most untoward experience. It chanced
that a company of English sailors, who appear to have been serving as a mercenary troop of
artillery in the French army, heard of the Chancellor's arrival. The drunken crowd got out
of hand, and vague memories of the naval pay of which they had been bilked prompted them to
take vengeance for old arrears upon the luckless Chancellor, whom they deemed responsible for
all the misdeeds of the Admiralty. Old echoes of "Dunkirk House," and the ill- gotten gains
of Ministers who fattened on the plunder of poor men, were doubtless ringing in their muddled
heads.

It would be absurd to attribute any political meaning to the incident, or to suppose that it
had any connivance from the French Government. The inn where Clarendon alighted was attacked
by the riotous mob. The local magistrates were incapable of dealing with the riot, and were
perplexed as to the limits of their jurisdiction. Clarendon's attendants made what defence
they could, and Le Fonde, his former persecutor, and now his courteous escort, received a dangerous
wound in his defence. It was like to go hard with the Chancellor himself. At the beginning
of the fray, he was struck a violent blow on the head with the flat of a broadsword. The rioters
used him with great violence, rifled his pockets and his baggage, and dragged him into the
courtyard to dispatch him with their swords. Not a moment too soon, the commanding officer
of the English sailors, with some magistrates and a guard, broke into the inn, and rescued
Clarendon, when he seemed at the point of death. It looked as if his troubles were not over;
the magistrates were ready to fight upon the question of their own jurisdiction, and would
allow no one else to show that vigour of resistance to the rioters of which they were themselves
incapable. It was only on Le Fonde's vigorous remonstrance, and his threats of the royal vengeance
on their remissness, that proper steps were taken for the safety of the company. The Chancellor
and his attendants obtained lodgings in the neighbouring castle of the Duc de Bouillon. Having
escaped from the perils of the mob, Clarendon had to resist the equally dangerous designs of
the French physicians, who wished to perform the operation of trepanning. With what haste he
might, he pressed on to Bourbon, and, after some stay there, he reached Avignon in June, Such
satisfaction as he could find, in the exemplary punishment of the rioters and in the gracious
apologies of the King, was readily accorded by his hosts of France.

At Avignon he reached a haven of refuge, where he might rest from the troubled experiences
of the year that was past. It had, indeed, been one of trial sufficient to test the staunchest
courage. Within little more than twelve months, he had lost his oldest and most trusted colleague,
Lord Southampton. His home had been made desolate by the death of his wife. He had seen the
growing boldness of his enemies, had detected their ruthlessness in falsehood and in knavery,
and had found that his loyalty to the Crown was to go for nothing, and that his trust in the
honour of the King was based on no sound foundation. Against his own judgment, he had resigned
the seal, in order that the King's business might prosper, and that the bitterness of his enemies
might be assuaged. When he had been persuaded to resign, he had found that his resignation
was to be a new ground of triumph for his enemies, and that it was a foothold for a new attack.
By the threat of prosecution they strove to drive him to fly, and when he refused to yield
to their threats, they contrived to make the King the agent in their knavish schemes, and procured
from him the peremptory message which made Clarendon quit the field. No sooner was he gone,
than the very flight which they had contrived was made the ground of new accusations, and he
was sentenced to perpetual banishment for avoiding a trial for which no summons had been issued,
no indictment laid, no commitment made. Stricken down by illness, he could not meet their challenge
by the date enjoined, and the beginning of February found him a proscribed exile, a persecuted
fugitive, hounded from post to post, a stricken invalid, longing for the release of death.
A few weeks brought some relief at least to the stout spirit that had borne so much. His enemies
at home had sped their last bolt, and were fast becoming absorbed in their own sordid quarrels.
The French King had abandoned the barbarity of which his own servants were ashamed, and addressed
the honoured exile in terms of gracious and almost fulsome courtesy. That exile reached the
haven of Avignon, to be received there not only without any of the annoyance of suspicious
espionage, but with all the courtesies that could be paid to an honoured guest. The Vice-Legate
and the Archbishop vied with one another in the formal stateliness of their reception. The
consuls and the magistrates attended him with all ceremony, and paid him their service in a
Latin oration. The Court of St. James's might reject him, but the high functionaries of European
diplomacy accorded to him all that tribute of respect which was due to the man who had shaped
the policy of the restored English monarchy, and had raised the standard of English statesmanship.
Clarendon was not too proud to feel his sense of self- complacency flattered by such homage,
and we like him none the less because he allows his satisfaction to appear.

Thus closes the political career which we have endeavoured to trace from its first beginnings,
through the period of long and arduous struggle, amidst the clouds of exile and poverty, and
once more in the full sun of a triumphant restoration, largely contrived by his wisdom, and
dominated by his guiding hand. We have seen the disappointments that marred that triumph, and
the ignoble stain that smirched the ideal of a restored monarchy which he had formed. We have
seen how, one by one, his cherished aims had been defeated, and how a King, the slave of selfish
libertinism, and a Court, the scene of gross debauchery and undisguised corruption, had tempted
him to despair of England. We have seen how high he bore himself amidst the degraded crew,
and how boldly he attacked the scandals of the Court, and rebuked the craven self-indulgence
of the King. We have marked how the various factions that felt uneasy under his sway, gradually
coalesced into a rancorous opposition, that knew no bounds in the meanness of their intrigues,
and in the barefaced falsehood of their accusations. We have seen how the King stooped to be
their instrument, and allowed himself to be the tool of their deceptions. Clarendon became
an exile, and, after a brief period of inhuman persecution from a false view of diplomatic
expediency, he received the homage of European Powers, as an honoured guest. In honouring him,
they showed what they thought of England under the Cabal. Of what England lost in Clarendon,
we can allow the sordid history that followed his fall to afford a sufficiently sure and graphic
indication.

