Miss Celestina was really clever and accomplished. "Use her abilities for her own support!"
Oh, no! not for worlds--Too proud to work, but not too proud to beg, she depended on her relations,
and played toady to all who would.

Miss Louisa--not clever; but in all other respects, ditto--ditto.

Miss Charlotte was always very romantic; refused a respectable banker with indignation, and
married her uncle's footman--for love.

Having sketched the female part of the family first (a compliment by the way they do not always
receive from their own sex)--I will tell you what I remember of the gentlemen.

"The Emperor," as Mr. Augustus was called, from his stately manner and dignified deportment,
aided by as much self-esteem as could well be contained in a human body, depended, without
any "compunctuous visitings of conscience," on the venison, claret, and champagne of his friends,
and thought all the time he did them honour:--and thus he passed his life.

"Dashing Dick" was the opposite of the Emperor; sung a good song--told a good story--and gloried
in making ladies blush. He depended on his cousin, Colonel Bloomfield, procuring him a commission
in his regiment, and cheated tailors, hosiers, glovers, coach-makers, and even lawyers, with
impunity. Happily for the world at large, Dashing Dick broke his neck in a steeple chase, on
a stolen horse, which he would have been hanged for purloining, had he lived a day longer.

Ferdinand was the bonne-bouche of the family: they used to call him "the Parson!" Excellent
Ferdinand!--he depended on his exertions; and, if ever the name of Headerton rises in the scale
of moral or intellectual superiority, it will be owing to the steady and virtuous efforts of
Mister Ferdinand Headerton, merchant, in the good city of B----.

Sketches of Irish Character, by Mrs. S.C. Hall.

       *       *       *       *       *

PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE UNDER DIFFICULTIES.

We quote the following from the portion of the Library of Entertaining Knowledge, with the
above title--to show the mode in which the heads of the respective chapters are illustrated:

Obscure Origin.

"The parents of SEBASTIAN CASTALIO, the elegant Latin translator of the Bible, were poor peasants,
who lived among the mountains in Dauphiny.

"The Abbé HAUTEFEUILLE, who distinguished himself in the seventeenth century, by his inventions
in clock and watch making, was the son of a baker.

"PARINI, the modern satiric poet of Italy, was the son of a peasant, who died when he was in
his boyhood, and left him to be the only support of his widowed mother; while, to add to his
difficulties, he was attacked in his nineteenth year by a paralysis, which rendered him a cripple
for life.

"The parents of Dr. JOHN PRIDEAUX, who afterwards rose to be Bishop of Worcester, were in such
poor circumstances, that they were with difficulty able to keep him at school till he had learned
to read and write; and he obtained the rest of his education by walking on foot to Oxford,
and getting employed in the first instance as assistant in the kitchen of Exeter College, in
which society he remained till he gradually made his way to a fellowship.

"The father of INIGO JONES, the great architect, who built the Banqueting-house at Whitehall,
and many other well known edifices, was a cloth-worker; and he himself was also destined originally
for a mechanical employment.

"Sir EDMUND SAUNDERS, Chief Justice of the Court of King's Bench in the reign of Charles II.,
was originally an errand boy at the Inns of Court, and gradually acquired the elements of his
knowledge of the law by being employed to copy precedents.

"LINNAEUS, the founder of the science of Botany, although the son of the clergyman of a small
village in Sweden, was for some time apprenticed to a shoemaker; and was only rescued from
his humble employment by accidentally meeting one day a physician named Rothman, who, having
entered into conversation with him, was so much struck with his intelligence, that he sent
him to the university.

"The father of MICHAEL LOMONOSOFF, one of the most celebrated Russian poets of the last century,
and who eventually attained the highest literary dignities in his own country, was only a simple
fisherman. Young Lomonosoff had great difficulty in acquiring as much education as enabled
him to read and write; and it was only by running away from his father's house, and taking
refuge in a monastery at Moscow, that he found means to obtain an acquaintance with the higher
branches of literature.

"The famous BEN JONSON worked for some time as a bricklayer or mason; 'and let not them blush,'
says Fuller, speaking of this circumstance in his 'English Worthies,' with his usual amusing,
but often expressive quaintness, 'let not them blush that have, but those that have not, a
lawful calling. He helped in the building of the new structure of Lincoln's Inn, when, having
a trowel in his hand, he had a book in his pocket.'

"PETER RAMUS, one of the most celebrated writers and intrepid thinkers of the sixteenth century,
was employed in his childhood as a shepherd, and obtained his education by serving as a lacquey
in the College of Navarre.

"The Danish astronomer, LONGOMONTANUS, was the son of a labourer, and, while attending the
academical lectures at Wyburg through the day, was obliged to work for his support during a
part of the night.

"The elder DAVID PAREUS, the eminent German Protestant divine, who was afterwards Professor
of Theology at Heidelberg, was placed in his youth as an apprentice, first with an apothecary,
and then with a shoemaker.

"HANS SACHS, one of the most famous of the early German poets, and a scholar of considerable
learning, was the son of a tailor, and served an apprenticeship himself, first to a shoemaker,
and afterwards to a weaver, at which last trade, indeed, he continued to work during the rest
of his life.

"JOHN FOLCZ, another old German poet, was a barber.

"LUCAS CORNELISZ, a Dutch painter of the sixteenth century, who visited England during the
reign of Henry VIII., and was patronized by that monarch, was obliged, while in his own country,
in order to support his large family, to betake himself to the profession of a cook.

"Dr. ISAAC MADDOX, who, in the reign of George II., became bishop, first of St. Asaph, and
then of Worcester, and who is well known by his work in defence of the Doctrine and Discipline
of the Church of England, lost both his parents, who belonged to a very humble rank of life,
at an early age, and was, in the first instance, placed by his friends with a pastrycook.

"The late Dr. ISAAC MILNER, Dean of Carlisle, and Lucasian Professor of the Mathematics at
Cambridge, who had the reputation of one of the first mathematicians of that University, and
who published some ingenious papers on Chemistry and Natural Philosophy, in the 'Philosophical
Transactions,' was originally a weaver--as was also his brother JOSEPH, the well known, author
of a 'History of the Church.' Of the same profession was also, in his younger days, the late
Dr. JOSEPH WHITE, Professor of Arabic at Oxford.

"CASSERIO, a well known Italian anatomist, was initiated in the elements of Medical Science
by a surgeon of Padua, with whom he had lived originally as a domestic servant.

"JOHN CHRISTIAN THEDEN, who rose to be chief surgeon to the Prussian army under Frederick II.
had in his youth been apprenticed to a tailor."

Influence of Accident in directing Pursuits.

