 The elegy on Cromwell, although doubtless sufficiently faulty, contained symptoms
of a regenerating taste; and, politically considered, although a panegyric on an usurper, the
topics of praise are selected with attention to truth, and are, generally speaking, such as
Cromwell's worst enemies could not have denied to him. Neither had Dryden made the errors,
or misfortunes, of the royal family, and their followers, the subject of censure or of contrast.
With respect to them, it was hardly possible that a eulogy on such a theme could have less
offence in it. This was perhaps a fortunate circumstance for Dryden at the Restoration; and
it must be noticed to his honour, that as he spared the exiled monarch in his panegyric on
the usurper, so, after the Restoration, in his numerous writings on the side of royalty, there
is no instance of his recalling his former praise of Cromwell.

After the frequent and rapid changes which the government of England underwent from the death
of Cromwell, in the spring of 1660, Charles II. was restored to the throne of his ancestors.
It may be easily imagined, that this event, a subject in itself highly fit for poetry, and
which promised the revival of poetical pursuits, was hailed with universal acclamation by all
whose turn for verse had been suppressed and stifled during the long reign of fanaticism. The
Restoration led the way to the revival of letters, as well as that of legal government. With
diaries, as Dryden has expressed it,

  The officious muses came along,
  A gay, harmonious quire, like angels ever young.

It was not, however, to be expected, that an alteration of the taste which had prevailed in
the days of Charles I., was to be the immediate consequence of the new order of things. The
muse awoke, like the sleeping beauty of the fairy tale, in the same antiquated and absurd vestments
in which she had fallen asleep twenty years before; or, if the reader will pardon another simile,
the poets were like those who, after long mourning, resume for a time their ordinary dresses,
of which the fashion has in the meantime passed away. Other causes contributed to a temporary
revival of the metaphysical poetry. Almost all its professors, attached to the house of Stuart,
had been martyrs, or confessors at least, in its cause. Cowley, their leader, was yet alive,
and returned to claim the late reward of his loyalty and his sufferings. Cleveland had died
a victim to the contempt, rather than the persecution, of the republicans;[38] but this most
ardent of cavalier poets was succeeded by Wild, whose "Iter Boreale" a poem on Monk's march
from Scotland formed upon Cleveland's model, obtained extensive popularity among the citizens
of London.[39] Dryden's good sense and natural taste perceived the obvious defects of these,
the very coarsest of metaphysical poets; insomuch, that, in his "Essay on Dramatic Poetry,"
he calls wresting and torturing one word into another, a catachresis, or Clevelandism, and
charges Wild with being in poetry what the French call un mauvais buffon.

Sprat, and an host of inferior imitators, marched for a time in the footsteps of Cowley; delighted,
probably, to discover in Pindaric writing, as it was called, a species of poetry which required
neither sound nor sense, provided only there was a sufficient stock of florid and extravagant
thoughts, expressed in harsh and bombastic language.

But this style of poetry, although it was for a time revived, and indeed continued to be occasionally
employed even to the end of the eighteenth century, had too slight foundation in truth and
nature to maintain the exclusive pre-eminence, which it had been exalted to during the reigns
of the two first monarchs of the Stuart race. As Rochester profanely expressed it, Cowley's
poetry was not of God, and therefore could not stand. An approaching change of public taste
was hastened by the manners of the restored monarch and his courtiers. That pedantry which
had dictated the excessive admiration of metaphysical conceits, was not the characteristic
of the court of Charles II., as it had been of those of his grandfather and father. Lively
and witty by nature, with all the acquired habits of an adventurer, whose wanderings, military
and political, left him time neither for profound reflection nor for deep study, the restored
monarch's literary taste, which was by no means contemptible, was directed towards a lighter
and more pleasing style of poetry than the harsh and scholastic productions of Donne and Cowley.
The admirers, therefore, of this old school were confined to the ancient cavaliers, and the
old courtiers of Charles I.; men unlikely to lead the fashion in the court of a gay monarch,
filled with such men as Buckingham, Rochester, Etherege, Sedley, and Mulgrave, whose time and
habits confined their own essays to occasional verses, and satirical effusions, in which they
often ridiculed the heights of poetry they were incapable of attaining. With such men the class
of poets, which before the civil war held but a secondary rank, began to rise in estimation.
Waller, Suckling, and Denham, began to assert a pre-eminence over Cowley and Donne; the ladies,
whose influence in the court of James and Charles I. was hardly felt, and who were then obliged
to be contented with such pedantic worship as is contained in the "Mistress" of Cowley, and
the "Epithalamion" of Donne, began now, when their voices were listened to, and their taste
consulted, to determine that their poetical lovers should address them in strains more musical,
if not more intelligible. What is most acceptable to the fair sex will always sway the mode
of a gay court; and the character of a smooth and easy sonneteer was soon considered as an
indispensable requisite to a man of wit and fashion, terms which were then usually synonymous.

To those who still retained a partiality for that exercise of the fancy and memory, afforded
by the metaphysical poetry, the style of satire then prevalent afforded opportunities of applying
it. The same depth of learning, the same extravagant ingenuity in combining the most remote
images, and in driving casual associations to the verge of absurdity, almost all the remarkable
features which characterised the poetry of Cowley, may be successfully traced in the satire
of Hudibras. The sublime itself borders closely on the ludicrous; but the bombast and extravagant
cannot be divided from it. The turn of thought, and the peculiar kind of mental exertion, corresponds
in both styles of writing; and although Butler pursued the ludicrous, and Cowley aimed at the
surprising, the leading features of their poetry only differ like those of the same face convulsed
with laughter, or arrested in astonishment The district of metaphysical poetry was thus invaded
by the satirists, who sought weapons there to avenge the misfortunes and oppression which they
had so lately sustained from the puritans; and as it is difficult in a laughing age to render
serious what has been once applied to ludicrous purposes, Butler and his imitators retained
quiet possession of the style which they had usurped from the grave bards of the earlier age.

A single poet, Sir William Davenant,[40] made a meritorious, though a misguided and unsuccessful
effort, to rescue poetry from becoming the mere handmaid of pleasure, or the partisan of political
or personal disputes, and to restore her to her natural rank in society, as an auxiliary of
religion, policy, law, and virtue. His heroic poem of "Gondibert" has, no doubt, great imperfections;
but it intimates everywhere a mind above those laborious triflers, who called that poetry which
was only verse; and very often exhibits a majestic, dignified, and manly simplicity, equally
superior to the metaphysical school, by the doctrines of which Davenant was occasionally misled.
Yet, if that author too frequently imitated their quaint affectation of uncommon sentiment
and associations, he had at least the merit of couching them in stately and harmonious verse;
a quality of poetry totally neglected by the followers of Cowley. I mention Davenant here,
and separate from the other poets, who were distinguished about the time of the Restoration,
because I think that Dryden, to whom we are about to return, was, at that period, an admirer
and imitator of "Gondibert," as we are certain that he was a personal and intimate friend of
the author.

With the return of the king, the fall of Dryden's political patrons was necessarily involved.
Sir Gilbert Pickering, having been one of Charles's judges, was too happy to escape into obscurity,
under an absolute disqualification for holding any office, political, civil, or ecclesiastical.
The influence of Sir John Driden was ended at the same time; and thus both those relations,
under whose protection Dryden entered life, and by whose influence he was probably to have
been aided in some path to wealth or eminence, became at once incapable of assisting him; and
even connection with them was rendered, by the change of times, disgraceful, if not dangerous.
Yet it may be doubted whether Dryden felt this evil in its full extent. Sterne has said of
a character, that a blessing which closed his mouth, or a misfortune which opened it with a
good grace, were nearly equal to him; nay, that sometimes the misfortune was the more acceptable
of the two. It is possible, by a parity of reasoning, that Dryden may have felt himself rather
relieved from, than deprived of, his fanatical patrons, under whose guidance he could never
hope to have indulged in that career of literary pursuit, which the new order of things presented
to the ambition of the youthful poet; at least, he lost no time in useless lamentation, but,
now in his thirtieth year, proceeded to exert that poetical talent, which had heretofore been
repressed by his own situation, and that of the country.

Dryden, left to his own exertions, hastened to testify his joyful acquiescence in the restoration
of monarchy, by publishing "Astroea Redux," a poem which was probably distinguished among the
innumerable congratulations poured forth upon the occasion; and he added to those which hailed
the coronation, in 1661, the verses entitled, "A Panegyric to his Sacred Majesty." These pieces
testify, that the author had already made some progress in harmonising his versification. But
they also contain many of those points of wit, and turns of epigram, which he condemned in
his more advanced judgment. The same description applies, in a yet stronger degree, to the
verses addressed to Lord Chancellor Hyde (Lord Clarendon) on the new-year's-day of 1662, in
which Dryden has more closely imitated the metaphysical poetry than in any poem, except the
juvenile elegy on Lord Hastings. I cannot but think, that the poet consulted the taste of his
patron, rather than his own, in adopting this peculiar style. Clarendon was educated in the
court of Charles I., and Dryden may have thought it necessary, in addressing him, to imitate
the "strong verses," which were then admired.

According to the fashion of the times, such copies of occasional verses were rewarded by a
gratuity from the person to whom they were addressed; and poets had not yet learned to think
this mode of receiving assistance incompatible with the feelings of dignity or delicacy. Indeed,
in the common transactions of that age, one sees something resembling the eastern custom of
accompanying with a present, and not always a splendid one, the usual forms of intercourse
and civility. Thus we find the wealthy corporation of Hull, backing a polite address to the
Duke of Monmouth, their governor, with a present of six broad pieces; and his grace deemed
it a point of civility to press the acceptance of the same gratuity upon the member of parliament
for the city, by whom it was delivered to him.[41] We may therefore believe, that Dryden received
some compliment from the king and chancellor; and I am afraid the same premises authorise us
to conclude that it was but trifling. Meantime, our author having no settled means of support,
except his small landed property, and having now no assistance to expect from his more wealthy
kinsmen, to whom, probably, neither his literary pursuits, nor his commencing them by a panegyric
on the restoration, were very agreeable, and whom he had also offended by a slight change in
spelling his name,[42] seems to have been reduced to narrow and uncomfortable circumstances.
Without believing, in its full extent, the exaggerated account given by Brown and Shadwell,[43]
we may discover from their reproaches, that, at the commencement of his literary career, Dryden
was connected, and probably lodged, with Herringman the bookseller, in the New Exchange, for
whom he wrote prefaces, and other occasional pieces. But having, as Mr. Malone has observed,
a patrimony, though a small one, of his own, it seems impossible that our author was ever in
that state of mean and abject dependence, which the malice of his enemies afterwards pretended.
The same malice misrepresented, or greatly exaggerated, the nature of Dryden's obligations
to Sir Robert Howard, with whom he became acquainted probably about the time of the Restoration,
whose influence was exerted in his favour, and whose good offices the poet returned by literary
assistance. He had recently suffered a long imprisonment in Windsor Castle during the usurpation.
His rank and merits made him, after the Restoration, a patron of some consequence; and upon
his publishing a collection of verses very soon after that period, Dryden prefixed an address
"to his honoured friend" on "his excellent poems." Sir Robert Howard understood the value of
Dryden's attachment, introduced him into his family, and probably aided in procuring his productions
that degree of attention from the higher world, for want of which the most valuable efforts
of genius have often sunk into unmerited obscurity. Such, in short, were his exertions in favour
of Dryden, that, though we cannot believe he was indebted to Howard, for those necessaries
of life which he had the means to procure for himself, the poet found ground to acknowledge,
that his patron had not only been "carefull of his fortune, which was the effect of his nobleness,
but solicitous of his reputation, which was that of his kindness."

Thus patronised, our author seems to have advanced in reputation, as he became more generally
known to the learned and ingenious of his time. Yet we have but few traces of the labour, by
which he doubtless attained, and secured, his place in society. A short satire on the Dutch,
written to animate the people of England against them, appeared in 1662.[46] It is somewhat
in the hard style of invective, which Cleveland applied to the Scottish nation; yet Dryden
thought it worth while to weave the same verses into the prologue and epilogue of the tragedy
of "Amboyna," a piece written in 1673, with the same kind intentions towards the states-general.

Science, as well as poetry, began to revive after the iron dominion of military fanaticism
was ended; and Dryden, who through life was attached to experimental philosophy, speedily associated
himself with those who took interest in its progress. He was chosen a member of the newly instituted
Royal Society, 26th November 1662; an honour which cemented his connection with the most learned
men of the time, and is an evidence of the respect in which he was already held. Most of these,
and the discoveries by which they had distinguished themselves, Dryden took occasion to celebrate
in his "Epistle to Dr. Walter Charleton," a learned physician, upon his treatise of Stonehenge.
Gilbert, Boyle, Harvey, and Ent, are mentioned with enthusiastic applause as treading in the
path pointed out by Bacon, who first broke the fetters of Aristotle, and taught the world to
derive knowledge from experiment. In these elegant verses, the author divests himself of all
the flippant extravagance of point and quibble, in which, complying with his age, he had hitherto
indulged, though of late in a limited degree.

While thus united in friendly communion with men of kindred and congenial spirits, Dryden seems
to have been sensible of the necessity of applying his literary talents to some line, in which
he might derive a steadier and more certain recompence, than by writing occasional verses to
the great, or doing literary drudgery for the bookseller. His own genius would probably have
directed him to the ambitious labours of an epic poem; but for this the age afforded little
encouragement. "Gondibert," the style of which, Dryden certainly both admired and copied, became
a martyr to the raillery of the critics; and to fill up the measure of shame, the "Paradise
Lost" fell still-born from the press. This last instance of bad taste had not, it is true,
yet taken place; but the men who were guilty of it, were then living under Dryden's observation
and their manners and habits could not fail to teach him, to anticipate the little encouragement
they were likely to afford to the loftier labours of poetry. One only line remained, in which
poetical talents might exert themselves, with some chance of procuring their possessor's reward,
or at least maintenance, and this was dramatic composition. To this Dryden sedulously applied
himself, with various success, for many years. But before proceeding to trace the history of
his dramatic career, I proceed to notice such pieces of his poetry, as exhibit marks of his
earlier style of composition.

The victory gained by the Duke of York over the Dutch fleet on the 3d of June 1665, and his
Duchess's subsequent journey into the north, furnished Dryden with the subject of a few occasional
verses; in which the style of Waller (who came forth with a poem on the same subject) is successfully
imitated. In addressing her grace, the poet suppresses all the horrors of the battle, and turns
her eyes upon the splendour of a victory, for which the kingdom was indebted to her husband's
valour, and her "chaste vows." In these verses, not the least vestige of metaphysical wit can
be traced; and they were accordingly censured, as wanting height of fancy, and dignity of words.
This criticism Dryden refuted, by alleging, that he had succeeded in what he did attempt, in
the softness of expression and smoothness of the measure (the appropriate ornaments of an address
to a lady), and that he was accused of that only thing which he could well defend. It seems,
however, very possible, that these remarks impelled him to undertake a task, in which vigour
of fancy and expression might, with propriety, be exercised. Accordingly, his next poem was
of greater length and importance. This is a historical account of the events of the year 1666,
under the title of "Annus Mirabilis" to which distinction the incidents which had occurred
in that space gave it some title. The poem being in the elegiac stanza, Dryden relapsed into
an imitation of "Gondibert," from which he had departed ever since the "Elegy on Cromwell."
From this it appears, that the author's admiration of Davenant had not decreased. Indeed, he,
long afterwards, bore testimony to that author's quick and piercing imagination; which at once
produced thoughts remote, new, and surprising, such as could not easily enter into any other
fancy. Dryden at least equalled Davenant in this quality; and certainly excelled him in the
powers of composition, which are to embody the conceptions of the imagination; and in the extent
of acquired knowledge, by which they were to be enforced and illustrated. In his preface, he
has vindicated the choice of his stanza, by a reference to the opinion of Davenant,[47] which
he sanctions by affirming, that he had always himself thought quatrains, or stanzas of verse
in alternate rhyme, more noble, and of greater dignity, both for sound and number, than any
other verse in use among us. By this attention to sound and rhythm, he improved upon the school
of metaphysical poets, which disclaimed attention to either; but in the thought and expression
itself, the style of Davenant more nearly resembled Cowley's, than that of Denham and Waller.
The same ardour for what Dryden calls "wit-writing," the same unceasing exercise of the memory,
in search of wonderful thoughts and allusions, and the same contempt for the subject, except
as the medium of displaying the author's learning and ingenuity, marks the style of Davenant,
though in a less degree than that of the metaphysical poets, and though chequered with many
examples of a simpler and chaster character. Some part of this deviation was, perhaps, owing
to the nature of the stanza; for the structure of the quatrain prohibited the bard, who used
it, from rambling into those digressive similes, which, in the pindaric strophe, might be pursued
through endless ramifications. If the former started an extravagant thought, or a quaint image,
he was compelled to bring it to a point within his four-lined stanza. The snake was thus scotched,
though not killed; and conciseness being rendered indispensable, a great step was gained towards
concentration of thought, which is necessary to the simple and to the sublime The manner of
Davenant, therefore, though short-lived, and ungraced by public applause, was an advance towards
true taste, from the unnatural and frantic indulgence of unrestrained fancy; and, did it claim
no other merit, it possesses that of having been twice sanctioned by the practice of Dryden,
upon occasions of uncommon solemnity.

The "Annus Mirabilis" evinces a considerable portion of labour and attention; the lines and
versification are highly polished, and the expression was probably carefully corrected. Dryden
as Johnson remarks, already exercised the superiority of his genius, by recommending his own
performance, as written upon the plan of Virgil; and as no unsuccessful effort at producing
those well-wrought images and descriptions, which create admiration, the proper object of heroic
poetry. The "Annus Mirabilis" may indeed be regarded as one of Dryden's most elaborate pieces;
although it is not written in his later, better, and most peculiar style of poetry.

The poem first appeared in octavo, in 1667, and was afterwards frequently reprinted in quarto.
It was dedicated to the metropolis of Great Britain, as represented by the lord mayor and magistrates.
A letter to Sir Robert Howard was prefixed to the poem, in which the author explains the purpose
of the work, and the difficulties which presented themselves in the execution. And in this
epistle, as a contrast between the smooth and easy style of writing which was proper in addressing
a lady, and the exalted style of heroic, or at least historical, poetry, he introduces the
verses to the Duchess of York, already mentioned.

The "Annus Mirabilis" being the last poetical work of any importance produced by our author,
until "Absalom and Achitophel," the reader may here pause, and consider, in the progressive
improvement of Dryden, the gradual renovation of public taste. The irregular pindaric ode was
now abandoned to Arwaker, Behn, Durfey, and a few inferior authors; who either from its tempting
facility of execution, or from an affected admiration of old times and fashions, still pestered
the public with imitations of Cowley. The rough measure of Donne (if it had any pretension
to be called a measure) was no longer tolerated, and it was expected, even of those who wrote
satires, lampoons, and occasional verses, that their rhymes should be rhymes, both to the ear
and eye; and that they should neither adore their mistresses nor abuse their neighbours, in
lines which differed only from prose in the fashion of printing. Thus the measure used by Rochester,
Buckingham Sheffield, Sedley, and other satirists, if not polished or harmonized, approaches
more nearly to modern verse, than that of Hall or Donne. In the "Elegy on Cromwell," and the
"Annus Mirabilis," Dryden followed Davenant, who abridged, if he did not explode, the quaintnesses
of his predecessors. In "Astroea Redux" and his occasional verses to Dr. Charlton, the Duchess
of York, and others, the poet proposed a separate and simpler model, more dignified than that
of Suckling or Waller; more harmonious in measure, and chaste in expression, than those of
Cowley and Crashaw. Much, there doubtless remained, of ancient subtlety, and ingenious quibbling;
but when Dryden declares, that he proposes Virgil, in preference to Ovid, to be his model in
the "Annus Mirabilis" it sufficiently implies that the main defect of the poetry of the last
age had been discovered, and was in the way of being amended by gradual and almost imperceptible
degrees.

In establishing, or refining, the latter style of writing, in couplet verse, our author found
great assistance from his dramatic practice; to trace the commencement of which is the purpose
of the next Section.

FOOTNOTES: [1] [The statements in this paragraph are somewhat rhetorical. Massinger, for instance,
was still at Oxford when James ascended the throne, and though he began to write a few years
later, his earliest published play now extant appeared nearly twenty years afterwards. But
the general drift is untouched.--ED.]

[2] I do not pretend to enter into the question of the effect of the drama upon morals. If
this shall be found prejudicial, two theatres are too many. But, in the present woful decline
of theatrical exhibition, we may be permitted to remember, that the gardener who wishes to
have a rare diversity of a common flower, sows whole beds with the species; and that the monopoly
granted to two huge theatres must necessarily diminish, in a complicated ratio, both the number
of play-writers, and the chance of anything very excellent being brought forward.

[3] [Scott is here far too harsh. "Euphues" is not a book to be despatched in a note, but the
reader may be requested to suspend his judgment until he has read it.--ED.]

[4] Our deserved idolatry of Shakespeare and Milton was equalled by that paid to this pedantic
coxcomb in his own time. He is called in the title-page of his plays (for, besides "Euphues,"
he wrote what he styled "Court Comedies"), "the only rare poet of that time; the witty, comical,
facetiously quick, and unparalleled John Lillie." Moreover, his editor, Mr. Blount, assures
us, "that he sate at Apollo's table; that Apollo gave him a wreath of his own bays without
snatching; and that the lyre he played on had no broken strings." Besides which, we are informed,
"Our nation are in his debt for a new English, which he taught them; 'Euphues and his England'
began first that language. All our ladies were then his scholars; and that beauty in court
who could not parle Euphuism, was as little regarded, as she which now there speaks not French."

[5] So that learned and sapient monarch was pleased to call his skill in politics.

[6] Witness a sermon preached at St. Mary's before the university of Oxford. It is true the
preacher was a layman, and harangued in a gold chain, and girt with a sword, as high sheriff
of the county; but his eloquence was highly applauded by the learned body whom he addressed,
although it would have startled a modern audience, at least as much as the dress of the orator.
"Arriving," said he, "at the Mount of St. Mary's, in the stony stage where I now stand, I have
brought you some fine biscuits, baked in the oven of charity, carefully conserved for the chickens
of the church, the sparrows of the spirit, and the sweet swallows of salvation." "Which way
of preaching," says Anthony Wood, the reporter of the homily, "was then mostly in fashion,
and commended by the generality of scholars."--Athenae Oxon. vol. i. p.183.

[7] Look at Ben Jonson's "Ode to the Memory of Sir Lucius Carey and Sir H. Morison," and at
most of his Pindarics. But Ben, when he pleased, could assume the garb of classic simplicity;
witness many of his lesser poems.

[8] In Jonson's last illness, Charles is said to have sent him ten pieces. "He sends me so
miserable a donation," said the expiring satirist, "because I am poor, and live in an alley;
go back and tell him, his soul lives in an alley." Whatever be the truth of this tradition,
we know from an epigram by Jonson, that the king at one time gave him an hundred pounds; no
trifling gift for a poor bard, even in the present day.

[9] "About a year after his return out of Germany, Dr. Cary was made bishop of Exeter; and
by his removal, the deanery of St. Paul's being vacant, the king sent to Dr. Donne, and appointed
him to attend him at dinner the next day. When his majesty was sate down, before he had eat
any meat, he said, after his pleasant manner, 'Dr. Donne, I have invited you to dinner; and
though you sit not down with me, yet I will carve to you of a dish that I know you love well;
for knowing you love London, I do therefore make you dean of Paul's; and when I have dined,
then do you take your beloved dish home to your study; say grace there to yourself, and much
good may it do you."--WALTON'S Life of Donne.

[10] See his "Verses to Mr. George Herbert, sent him with one of my seals of the anchor and
Christ. A sheaf of snakes used heretofore to be my seal, which is the crest of our poor family."

[12] It is pleasing to see the natural good taste of honest old Isaac Walton struggling against
that of his age. He introduces the beautiful lines,

  "Come live with me, and be my love,"

as "that smooth song made by Kit Marlow, now at least fifty years ago." "The milkmaid's mother,"
he adds, "sung an answer to it, which was made by Sir Walter Raleigh in his younger days. They
were old-fashioned poetry, but choicely good. I think much better than the strong lines that
are in fashion in this critical age."--The Complete Angler, Edit. vi. p. 65.

[13] "A Poem on the Danger Charles I., being Prince, escaped in the Road at St. Andero."

[14] [The Jacobean and Caroline poets, especially Donne and Cowley, require considerable allowance
to be made on Scott's judgment by those who are not familiar with them.--ED.]

[15] Fasti Oxon. vol. i. p. 115. Considering John Dryden's marriage with the heiress of a man
of knightly rank, it seems unlikely that he followed the profession of a schoolmaster. But
Wood could hardly be mistaken in the second circumstance some of the family having gloried
in it in his hearing.

[16] See Collins' Baronetage, vol. ii. The testator bequeaths his soul to his Creator, with
this singular expression of confidence, "the Holy Ghost assuring my spirit, that I am the elect
of God."

[17] Robert Keies, executed 31st January 1606, of whom Fuller, in his Church History, tells
the following anecdote:--"A few days before the fatal blow should have been given, Keies, being
at Tichmarsh, in Northamptonshire, at his brother-in-law's house, Mr. Gilbert Pickering, a
Protestant, he suddenly whipped out his sword, and in merriment made many offers therewith
at the heads, necks, and sides, of several gentlemen and ladies then in his company. It was
then taken for a mere frolic, and so passed accordingly; but afterwards, when the treason was
discovered, such as remembered his gestures thought he practised what he intended to do when
the plot should take effect; that is, to hack and hew, kill and destroy, all eminent persons
of a different religion from himself."--CAULFIELD's History of the Gunpowder Plot.

[18] The following curious story is told to that effect, in Caulfield's "History of the Gunpowder
Plot," p. 67:--

"There was a Mr. Pickering of Tichmarsh-Grove, in Northamptonshire who was in great esteem
with King James. This Mr. Pickering had a horse of special note for swiftness, on which he
used to hunt with the king. A little before the blow was to be given, Mr. Keies, one of the
conspirators, and brother-in-law to Mr. Pickering, borrowed this horse of him, and conveyed
him to London upon a bloody design, which was thus contrived:--Fawkes, upon the day of the
fatal blow, was appointed to retire himself into St. George's Fields, where this horse was
to attend him, to further his escape (as they made him believe) as soon as the Parliament should
be blown up. It was likewise contrived, that Mr. Pickering, who was noted for a puritan, should
that morning be murdered in his bed, and secretly conveyed away; and also that Fawkes, as soon
as he came into St. George's Fields, should be there murdered, and so mangled, that he could
not be known; upon which, it was to be spread abroad, that the puritans had blown up the parliament-house;
and the better to make the world believe it, there was Mr. Pickering, with his choice horse
ready to escape. But that stirred up some, who seeing the heinousness of the fact, and him
ready to escape, in detestation of so horrible a deed, fell upon him, and hewed him to pieces;
and to make it more clear, there was his horse, known to be of special speed and swiftness,
ready to carry him away; and upon this rumour, a massacre should have gone through the whole
land upon the puritans.

"When the contrivance of this plot was discovered by some of the conspirators, and Fawkes,
who was now a prisoner in the Tower, made acquainted with it, whereas before he was made to
believe by his companions, that he should be bountifully rewarded for that his good service
to the Catholic cause, now perceiving, that, on the contrary, his death had been contrived
by them, he thereupon freely confessed all that he knew concerning that horrid conspiracy,
which before all the torments of the rack could not force him to do.

"The truth of this was attested by Mr. William Perkins, who had it from Mr. Clement Cotton,
to whom Mr. Pickering gave the above relation."

[19] Erasmus, the poet's immediate younger brother, was in trade, and resided in King-street,
Westminster. He succeeded to the family title and estate upon the death of Sir John Dryden,
and died at the seat of Canons-Ashby 3d November 1718, leaving one daughter and five grandsons.
Henry, the poet's third brother, went to Jamaica, and died there, leaving a son, Richard. James,
the fourth of the sons, was a tobacconist in London, and died there, leaving two daughters.
Of the daughters, Mr. Malone, after Oldys, says, that Agnes married Sylvester Emelyn of Stanford,
Gent.; that Rose married ---- Laughton of Calworth, D.D., in the county of Huntington; that
Lucy became the wife of Stephen Umwell of London, merchant; and Martha of ---- Bletso of Northampton.
Another of the daughters was married to one Shermardine, a bookseller in Little Britain; and
Frances, the youngest, to Joseph Sandwell, a tobacconist in Newgate-street This last died 10th
October 1730, at the advanced age of ninety. She had survived the poet about thirty years.
Of the remaining four sisters, no notices occur.

[20] [A few facts of a more precise kind about the contents of this and the foregoing paragraphs
may be grouped here. The Rev. H. Pickering was rector of Aldwinkle (the better form) All-Saints
from 1507 to 1637, not from 1647 to 1657. This destroys Scott's inference. The error arose
from a misreading of his epitaph. "The village" did not strictly belong to Lord Exeter: but
he had property in Aldwinkle St. Peter's, and the two parishes are close together, one church
being at one end and the other at the other of the joint village. Erasmus Dryden and Mary Pickering
were married at the church of Pilton, a very small village between Aldwinkle and Oundle, on
October 21, 1630. Dryden was therefore indisputably the eldest son. Blakesley, where his father's
property was situated, is not near Aldwinkle or Tichmarsh, which are close together on opposite
sides of the river Nene, and about two miles from Thrapston, but near Canons-Ashby on the other
side of the county. The estate (of about two hundred acres) was united to that of Canons-Ashby
after the death of Dryden's youngest son. But, unlike Canons-Ashby, it does not now belong
to the family, having been sold many years ago.--ED.]

[21]
  "And though no wit ran royal blood infuse,
  No more than melt a mother to a muse,
  Yet much a certain poet undertook,
  That men and manners deals in without book;
  And might not more to gospel truth belong,
  Than he (if christened) does by name of John."
              Poetical Reflections, etc. See vol. ix.

Another opponent of our author calls him

  "A bristled Baptist bred, and then thy strain
  Immaculate was free from sinful stain."
              The Laureat, vol. x.

[22] Upon a monument, erected by Elizabeth Creed to the poet's memory in the church at Tichmarsh,
are these words:--"We boast that he was bred and had his first learning here." [A rival tradition
favours Oundle, which had and has a grammar school of merit.--ED.]

[23] The date is not known. That of his admission to Trinity, infra, should be May 18. He matriculated
on July 16, and was not elected to his scholarship till October 2.--ED.

[24] [More usually Busby.--ED.]

[25] "I remember (says Dryden, in a postscript to the argument of the third satire of Perseus)
I translated this satire when I was a King's scholar at Westminster school, for Thursday night's
exercise; and believe, that it, and many other of my exercises of this nature in English verse,
are still in the hands of my learned master, the Rev. Dr. Bushby."

[26] The following order is quoted, by Mr. Malone, from the Conclusion-book, in the archives
of Trinity College, p. 221.

  "July 19, 1652. Agreed, then, That Dryden be put out of Comons, for a
  fortnight at least; and that he goe not out of the colledg, during the
  time aforesaid, excepting to sermons, without express leave from the
  master, or vice-master; and that, at the end of the fortnight, he read
  a confession of his crime in the hall, at dinner time, at the three
  ... fellowes table.

  "His crime was, his disobedience to the vice-master, and his contumacy
  in taking his punishment inflicted by him."

[27] Shadwell, in the Medal of John Bayes,

  "At Cambridge Brat your scurrilous vein began,
  Where saucily you traduced a nobleman;
  Who for that crime rebuked you on the head,
  And you had been expelled, had you not fled."

[28] He received this degree by dispensation from the Archbishop of Canterbury.

[29] Prologue to the University of Oxford.

[30] Jonathan Dryden, elected a scholar from Westminster into Trinity College, Cambridge, in
1656, of which he became fellow in 1662, was author of some verses in the Cambridge Collections
in 1661, on the death of the Duke of Gloucester, and the marriage of the Princess of Orange;
and in 1662, on the marriage of Charles II., which have been imputed to our author. An order,
quoted by Mr. Malone, for abatement of the commencement-money paid at taking the Bachelor's
degree, on account of poverty, applies to Jonathan, not to John Dryden.--MALONE, vol. i. p.17,
note.

[31] [This letter will be found in its proper place. It is the sole personal utterance in prose,
and almost the only biographical fact of importance that we have for the first thirty years
of Dryden's life. Upon it, an entirely baseless romance has been built of disappointed love
and parental unkindness. There is absolutely no evidence that Dryden ever seriously pretended
to his cousin's hand, or that he was rejected, or that this rejection was due to his uncle's
influence.--ED.]

[32] Elegy on Lady Haddington, in Corbet's Poems, p. 121. Gilchrist's edition.

[33] Sir John Pickering, father of Sir Gilbert, married Susan, the sister of Erasmus Dryden,
the poet's father. But Mary Pickering, the poet's mother, was niece to Sir John Pickering;
and thus his son Sir Gilbert was her cousin-german also.

[34] In one lampoon, he is called "fiery Pickering." Walker, in his "Sufferings of the Clergy,"
prints Jeremiah Stevens' account of the Northamptonshire committee of sequestration in which
the character of Pickering, one of the members of that oppressive body, is thus drawn:-- "Sir
G---- P---- had an uncle, whose ears were cropt for a libel on Archbishop Whitgift; was first
a presbyterian, then an independent, then a Brownist, and afterwards an anabaptist. He was
a most furious, fiery, implacable man; was the principal agent in casting out most of the learned
clergy; a great oppressor of the country; got a good manor for his booty of the E. of R. and
a considerable purse of gold by a plunder at Lynn in Norfolk." He is thus characterized by
an angry limb of the commonwealth, whose republican spirit was incensed by Cromwell creating
a peerage:--"Sir Gilbert Pickering, knight of the old stamp, and of considerable revenue in
Northamptonshire; one of the Long Parliament, and a great stickler in the change of the government
from kingly to that of a commonwealth;--helped to make those laws of treason against kingship;
has also changed with all changes that have been since. He was one of the Little Parliament,
and helped to break it, as also of all the parliaments since; is one of the Protector's council
(his salary £1000 per annum, besides other places), and as if he had been pinned to this slieve,
was never to seek; is become high steward of Westminster; and being so finical, spruce, and
like an old courtier, is made lord-chamberlain of the Protector's household or court; so that
he may well be counted fit and worthy to be taken out of the House to have a negative voice
in the other House, though he helped to destroy it in the king and lords. There are more besides
him, that make themselves transgressors by building again the things which they once destroyed."
Quoted by Mr. Malone from a rare pamphlet in his collection entitled "A Second Narrative of
the late Parliament, 1658."

[35] Like Sir Gilbert Pickering, he was a member of the Northamptonshire committee of sequestration,
and his deeds are thus commemorated in Walker's "Sufferings of the Clergy:"--"Sir J---- D----n
was never noted for ability or discretion; was a puritan by tenure, his house (Canons Ashby)
being an ancient college, where he possessed the church, and abused most part of it to profane
uses: the chancel he turned to a barn; the body of it to a corn-chamber and storehouse, reserving
one side aisle of it for the public service of prayers, etc. He was noted for weakness and
simplicity, and never put on any business of moment, but was very furious against the clergy."

[36] In a satire called "The Protestant Poets," our author is thus contrasted with Sir Roger
L'Estrange. In levelling his reproaches, the satirist was not probably very solicitous about
genealogical accuracy; as, in the eighth line, I conceive Sir John Dryden to be alluded to,
although he is termed our poet's grandfather, when he was in fact his uncle. Sir Erasmus Dryden
was indeed a fanatic, and so was Henry Pickering, Dryden's paternal and maternal grandfather;
but neither were men of mark or eminence:

  "But though he spares no waste of words or conscience,
  He wants the Tory turn of thorough nonsense,
  That thoughtless air, that makes light Hodge so jolly;--
  Void of all weight, he wantons in his folly.
  No so forced BAYES, whom sharp remorse attends,
  While his heart loaths the cause his tongue defends;
  Hourly he acts, hourly repents the sin,
  And is all over grandfather within:
  By day that ill-laid spirit checks,--o' nights
  Old Pickering's ghost, a dreadful spectre, frights.
  Returns of spleen his slacken'd speed remit,
  And crump his loose careers with intervals of wit:
  While, without stop at sense, or ebb of spite,
  Breaking all bars, bounding o'er wrong and right,
  Contented Roger gallops out of sight."

[37] This piece was called in, and destroyed by the noble author; but Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough,
when opposing Lord Grimestone at an election, maliciously printed and dispersed a large impression
of his smothered performance, with a frontispiece representing an elephant dancing on the slack
rope.

[38] He was one of the garrison of Newark, which held out so long for Charles I., and has left
a curious specimen of the wit of the time, in his controversy with a parliamentary officer,
whose servant had robbed him, and taken refuge in Newark. The following is the beginning of
his answer to a demand that the fugitive should be surrendered:

"Sixthly, Beloved,

"Is it so then, that our brother and fellow-labourer in the Gospel is start aside? then this
may serve for an use of instruction, not to trust in man, nor in the son of man. Did not Demas
leave Paul? did not Onesimus run from his master Philemon? besides, this should teach us to
employ our talent, and not to lay it up in a napkin. Had it been done among the cavaliers,
it had been just; then the Israelite had spoiled the Egyptian; but for Simeon to plunder Levi,
that! that! You see, sir, what use I make of the doctrine you sent me; and indeed since you
change style so far as to nibble at wit, you must pardon me, if, to quit scores, I pretend
a little to the gift of preaching," etc.

Such was the wit of Cleveland. After the complete subjugation of the royalists, he was apprehended,
having in his possession a bundle of poems and satirical songs against the republicans. He
appeared before the commonwealth-general with the dignified air of one who is prepared to suffer
for his principles. He was disappointed; for the military judge, after a contemptuous glance
at the papers, exclaimed to Cleveland's accusers, "Is this all ye have against him? Go, let
the poor knave sell his ballads!" Such an acquittal was more severe than any punishment. The
conscious virtue of the loyalist would have borne the latter; but the pride of the poet could
not sustain his contemptuous dismissal; and Cleveland is said to have broken his heart in consequence.--Biographia
Britannica, voce Cleveland.

[39] "He is the very Withers of the city," says Dryden of Wild; "they have bought more editions
of his works than would serve to lay under all their pies at the lord mayor's Christmas. When
his famous poem first came out in the year 1660, I have seen them reading it in the midst of
change time; nay, so vehement they were at it, that they lost their bargain by the candles'
ends; but what will you say, if he has been received amongst great persons? I can assure you
he is this day the envy of one who is lord in the art of quibbling, and who does not take it
well, that any man should intrude so far into his province."--Vol. xv.

[40] [It may be well to note that "Gondibert" was published in 1651, ten years before the Restoration.
This does not affect the general accuracy of Scott's remarks as to Davenant's poetical position
and his influence on Dryden, but the reader might draw a mistaken inference from those remarks
as to the date of the poem.--ED.]

[41] "The Duke of Monmouth returned on Saturday from New-Market. To-day I waited on him, and
first presented him with your letter, which he read all over very attentively; and then prayed
me to assure you, that he would, upon all occasions, be most ready to give you the marks of
his affection, and assist you in any affairs you should recommend to him. I then delivered
him the six broad pieces, telling him, that I was deputed to blush on your behalf for the meanness
of the present, etc.; but he took me off, and said he thanked you for it, and accepted it as
a token of your kindness. He had, before I came in, as I was told, considered what to do with
the gold; and but that I by all means prevented the offer, or I had been in danger of being
reimbursed with it."--ANDREW MARVELL'S Works, vol. i. p. 210; Letter to the Mayor of Hull.

[42] From Driden to Dryden.

[43] Shadwell makes Dryden say, that after some years spent at the university, he came to London.
"At first I struggled with a great deal of persecution, took up with a lodging which had a
window no bigger than a pocket looking-glass, dined at a three-penny ordinary enough to starve
a vacation tailor, kept little company, went clad in homely drugget, and drunk wine as seldom
as a rechabite, or the grand seignior's confessor." The old gentleman, who corresponded with
the "Gentleman's Magazine," and remembered Dryden before the rise of his fortunes, mentions
his suit of plain drugget, being, by the bye, the same garb in which he has clothed Flecnoe,
who "coarsely clad in Norwich drugget came."

[44] [Scott, by an evident slip, "Berkeley."--ED.]

[45] [Scott, "Cropley."--ED.]

[46] [This is a mistake. See "Amboyna."--ED.]

[47] Davenant alleges the advantages of a respite and pause between every stanza, which should
be so constructed as to comprehend a period; and adds, "nor doth alternate rhyme, by any lowliness
of cadence, make the sound less heroic, but rather adapt it to a plain and stately composing
of music; and the brevity of the stanza renders it less subtle to the composer, and more easy
to the singer, which, in stilo recitativo, when the story is long, is chiefly requisite."--Preface
to Gondibert.

It would appear that Dryden, at the period of the Restoration, renounced all views of making
his way in life except by exertion of the literary talents with which he was so eminently endowed.
His becoming a writer of plays was a necessary consequence; for the theatres, newly opened
after so long silence, were resorted to with all the ardour inspired by novelty; and dramatic
composition was the only line which promised something like an adequate reward to the professors
of literature. In our sketch of the taste of the seventeenth century previous to the Restoration,
this topic was intentionally postponed.

In the times of James I. and of his successor, the theatre retained, in some degree, the splendour
with which the excellent writers of the virgin reign had adorned it. It is true, that authors
of the latter period fell far below those gigantic poets, who flourished in the end of the
sixteenth and beginning of the seventeenth centuries; but what the stage had lost in dramatic
composition, was, in some degree, supplied by the increasing splendour of decoration, and the
favour of the court. A private theatre, called the Cockpit, was maintained at Whitehall, in
which plays were performed before the court; and the king's company of actors often received
command to attend the royal progresses.[1] Masques, a species of representation calculated
exclusively for the recreation of the great, in whose halls they were exhibited, were an usual
entertainment of Charles and his consort. The machinery and decorations were often superintended
by Inigo Jones, and the poetry composed by Ben Jonson the laureate. Even Milton deigned to
contribute one of his most fascinating poems to the service of the drama; and, notwithstanding
the severity of his puritanic tenets, "Comus" could only have been composed by one who felt
the full enchantment of the theatre. But all this splendour vanished at the approach of civil
war. The stage and court were almost as closely united in their fate as royalty and episcopacy,
had the same enemies, the same defenders, and shared the same overwhelming ruin. "No throne
no theatre," seemed as just a dogma as the famous "No king no bishop." The puritans indeed
commenced their attack against royalty in this very quarter; and, while they impugned the political
exertions of prerogative, they assailed the private character of the monarch and his consort,
for the encouragement given to the profane stage, that rock of offence, and stumbling-block
to the godly. Accordingly, the superiority of the republicans was no sooner decisive, than
the theatres were closed, and the dramatic poets silenced. No department of poetry was accounted
lawful; but the drama being altogether unhallowed and abominable, its professors were persecuted,
while others escaped with censure from the pulpit, and contempt from the rulers. The miserable
shifts to which the surviving actors were reduced during the commonwealth, have been often
detailed. At times they were connived at by the caprice or indolence of their persecutors;
but, in general, so soon as they had acquired any slender stock of properties, they were beaten,
imprisoned, and stripped, at the pleasure of the soldiery.[2]

The Restoration naturally brought with it a revived taste for those elegant amusements, which,
during the usurpation, had been condemned as heathenish, or punished as appertaining especially
to the favourers of royalty. To frequent them, therefore, became a badge of loyalty, and a
virtual disavowal of those puritanic tenets which all now agreed in condemning. The taste of
the restored monarch also was decidedly in favour of the drama. At the foreign courts, which
it had been his lot to visit, the theatre was the chief entertainment; and as amusement was
always his principal pursuit, it cannot be doubted that he often sought it there. The interest,
therefore, which the monarch took in the restoration of the stage, was direct and personal.
Had it not been for this circumstance, it seems probable that the general audience, for a time
at least, would have demanded a revival of those pieces which had been most successful before
the civil wars; and that Shakespeare, Massinger, and Fletcher, would have resumed their acknowledged
superiority upon the English stage. But as the theatres were re-established and cherished by
the immediate influence of the sovereign, and of the court which returned with him from exile,
a taste formed during their residence abroad dictated the nature of entertainments which were
to be presented to them. It is worthy of remark, that Charles took the models of the two grand
departments of the drama from two different countries.

France afforded the pattern of those tragedies which continued in fashion for twenty years
after the Restoration, and which were called Rhyming or Heroic Plays. In that country, however,
contrary to the general manners of the people, a sort of stately and precise ceremonial early
took possession of the theatre. The French dramatist was under the necessity of considering
less the situation of the persons of the drama, than that of the performers who were to represent
it before a monarch and his court. It was not, therefore, sufficient for the author to consider
how human beings would naturally express themselves in the predicament of the scene; he had
the more embarrassing task of so modifying their expressions of passion and feeling, that they
might not exceed the decorum necessary in the august presence of the grand monarque. A more
effectual mode of freezing the dialogue of the drama could hardly have been devised, than by
introducing into the theatre the etiquette of the drawing-room. That etiquette also, during
the reign of Louis XIV., was of a kind peculiarly forced and unnatural The romances of Calprenède
and Scudéry, those ponderous and unmerciful folios now consigned to utter oblivion, were in
that reign not only universally read and admired, but supposed to furnish the most perfect
models of gallantry and heroism; although, in the words of an elegant female author, these
celebrated writings are justly described as containing only "unnatural representations of the
passions, false sentiments, false precepts, false wit, false honour, and false modesty, with
a strange heap of improbable, unnatural incidents, mixed up with true history, and fastened
upon some of the great names of antiquity."[3] Yet upon the model of such works were framed
the court manners of the reign of Louis, and, in imitation of them, the French tragedy, in
which every king was by prescriptive right a hero, every female a goddess, every tyrant a fire-breathing
chimera, and every soldier an irresistible Amadis; in which, when perfected, we find lofty
sentiments, splendid imagery, eloquent expression, sound morality, everything but the language
of human passion and human character. In the hands of Corneille, and still more in those of
Racine, much of the absurdity of the original model was cleared away, and much that was valuable
substituted in its stead; but the plan being fundamentally wrong, the high talents of these
authors unfortunately only tended to reconcile their countrymen to a style of writing which
must otherwise have fallen into contempt. Such as it was, it rose into high favour at the court
of Louis XIV., and was by Charles introduced upon the English stage. "The favour which heroic
plays have lately found upon our theatres," says our author himself, "have been wholly derived
to them from the countenance and approbation they have received at court."[4]

The French comedy, although Molière was in the zenith of his reputation, appears not to have
possessed equal charms for the English monarch. The same restraint of decorum, which prevented
the expression of natural passion in tragedy, prohibited all indelicate licence in comedy.
Charles, probably, was secretly pleased with a system, which cramped the effusions of the tragic
muse, and forbade, as indecorous, those bursts of rapturous enthusiasm, which might sometimes
contain matter unpleasing to a royal ear.[5] But the merry monarch saw no good reason why the
muse of comedy should be compelled to "dwell in decencies for ever," and did not feel at all
degraded when enjoying a gross pleasantry, or profane witticism, in company with the mixed
mass of a popular audience. The stage, therefore, resumed more than its original licence under
his auspices. Most of our early plays, being written in a coarse age, and designed for the
amusement of a promiscuous and vulgar audience, were dishonoured by scenes of coarse and naked
indelicacy. The positive enactments of James, and the grave manners of his son, in some degree
repressed this disgraceful scurrility; and, in the common course of events, the English stage
would have been gradually delivered from this reproach by the increasing influence of decency
and taste.[6] But Charles II., during his exile, had lived upon a footing of equality with
his banished nobles, and partaken freely and promiscuously in the pleasure and frolics by which
they had endeavoured to sweeten adversity. To such a court the amusements of the drama would
have appeared insipid, unless seasoned with the libertine spirit which governed their lives,
and which was encouraged by the example of the monarch. Thus it is acutely argued by Dennis,
in reply to Collier, that the depravity of the theatre, when revived, was owing to that very
suppression, which had prevented its gradual reformation. And just so a muddy stream, if allowed
its free course, will gradually purify itself; but, if dammed up for a season, and let loose
at once, its first torrent cannot fail to be impregnated with every impurity. The licence of
a rude age was thus revived by a corrupted one; and even those plays which were translated
from the French and Spanish, were carefully seasoned with as much indelicacy, and double entendre,
as was necessary to fit them for the ear of the wittiest and most profligate of monarchs.

Another remarkable feature in the comedies which succeeded the Restoration is the structure
of their plot, which was not, like that of the tragedies, formed upon the Parisian model. The
English audience had not patience for the regular comedy of their neighbours, depending upon
delicate turns of expression, and nicer delineation of character. The Spanish comedy, with
its bustle, machinery, disguise, and complicated intrigue, was much more agreeable to their
taste. This preference did not arise entirely from what the French term the phlegm of our national
character, which cannot be affected but by powerful stimulants. It is indeed certain, that
an Englishman expects his eye, as well as his ear, to be diverted by theatrical exhibition;
but the thirst of novelty was another and separate reason which affected the style of the revived
drama. The number of new plays represented every season was incredible; and the authors were
compelled to have recourse to that mode of composition which was most easily executed. Laboured
accuracy of expression, and fine traits of character, joined to an arrangement of action, which
should be at once pleasing, interesting, and probable, require sedulous study, deep reflection,
and long and repeated correction and revision. But these were not to be expected from a playwright,
by whom three dramas were to be produced in one season; and in their place were substituted
adventures surprises, rencounters, mistakes, disguises, and escapes, all easily accomplished
by the intervention of sliding panels, closets, veils, masks, large cloaks, and dark lanthorns.
If the dramatist was at a loss for employing these convenient implements, the fifteen hundred
plays of Lope de Vega were at hand for his instruction; presenting that rapid succession of
events, and those sudden changes in the situation of the personages, which, according to the
noble biographer of the Spanish dramatist, are the charms by which he interests us so forcibly
in his plots.[7] These Spanish plays had already been resorted to by the authors of the earlier
part of the century. But under the auspices of Charles II., who must often have witnessed the
originals while abroad, and in some instances by his express command, translations were executed
of the best and most lively Spanish comedies.[8]

The favourite comedies therefore, after the Restoration, were such as depended rather upon
the intricacy than the probability of the plot; rather upon the vivacity and liveliness, than
on the natural expression of the dialogue; and, finally, rather upon extravagant and grotesque
conception of character, than upon its being pointedly delineated, and accurately supported
through the representation. These particulars, in which the comedies of Charles the Second's
reign differ from the example set by Shakespeare, Massinger and Beaumont and Fletcher, seem
to have been derived from the Spanish model. But the taste of the age was too cultivated to
follow the stage of Madrid, in introducing, or, to speak more accurately, in reviving, the
character of the gracioso, or clown, upon that of London.[9] Something of foreign manners may
be traced in the licence assumed by valets and domestics in the English comedy; a freedom which
at no time made a part of our national manners, though something like it may still be traced
upon the Continent. These seem to be the leading characteristics of the comedies of Charles
the Second's reign, in which the rules of the ancients were totally disregarded. It were to
be wished that the authors could have been exculpated from an heavier charge,--that of assisting
to corrupt the nation, by nourishing and fomenting their evil passions, as well as by indulging
and pandering to their vices.

The theatres, after the Restoration, were limited to two in number; a restriction perhaps necessary,
as the exclusive patent expresses it, in regard of the extraordinary licentiousness then used
in dramatic representation; but for which no very good reason can be shown, when they are at
least harmless, if not laudable places of amusement. One of these privileged theatres was placed
under the direction of Sir William Davenant, whose sufferings in the royal cause merited a
provision, and whose taste and talents had been directed towards the drama even during its
proscription. He is said to have introduced moveable scenes upon the English stage; and, without
entering into the dispute of how closely this is to be interpreted, we are certain that he
added much to its splendour and decoration. His set of performers, which contained the famous
Betterton, and others of great merit, was called the Duke's Company. The other licensed theatre
was placed under the direction of Thomas Killigrew, much famed by tradition for his colloquial
wit, but the merit of whose good things evaporated so soon as he attempted to interweave them
with comedy.[10] His performers formed what was entitled the King's Company. With this last
theatre Dryden particularly connected himself, by a contract to be hereafter mentioned. None
of his earlier plays were acted by the Duke's Company, unless those in which he had received
assistance from others, whom he might think as well entitled as himself to prescribe the place
of representation.

Such was the state of the English drama when Dryden became a candidate for theatrical laurels.
So early as the year of the Restoration, he had meditated a tragedy upon the fate of the Duke
of Guise; but this, he has informed us, was suppressed by the advice of some friends, who told
him, that it was an excellent subject, but not so artificially managed as to render it fit
for the stage. It were to be wished these scenes had been preserved, since it may be that the
very want of artifice, alleged by the critics of the day, would have recommended them to our
more simple taste. We might at least have learned from them, whether Dryden, in his first essay,
leant to the heroic, or to the ancient English tragedy. But the scene of Guise's return to
Paris, is the only part of the original sketch which Dryden thought fit to interweave with
the play, as acted in 1682; and as that scene is rendered literally from Davila, upon the principle
that, in so remarkable an action, the poet was not at liberty to change the words actually
used by the persons interested, we only learn from it, that the piece was composed in blank
verse, not rhyme.

In the course of the year 1661-2, our author composed the "Wild Gallant," which was acted about
February 1662-3 without success. The beautiful Countess of Castlemaine, afterwards Duchess
of Cleveland, extended her protection to the unfortunate performance, and received the incense
of the author; who boasts,

  "Posterity will judge by my success,
  I had the Grecian poet's happiness,
  Who, waving plots, found out a better way,--
  Some god descended, and preserved the play."

It was probably by the influence of this royal favourite, that the "Wild Gallant" was more
than once performed before Charles by his own command. But the author, his piece, and his poetical
compliment, were hardly treated in a Session of the Poets, which appeared about 1670. Nor did
Sir Robert Howard, his associate, escape without his share of ridicule:

  "Sir Robert Howard, called for over and over,
      At length sent in Teague with a packet of news,
  Wherein the sad knight, to his grief did discover
      How Dryden had lately robbed him of his Muse.

  Each man in the court was pleased with the theft,
      Which made the whole family swear and rant,
  Desiring, their Robin in the lurch being left,
      The thief might be punished for his 'Wild Gallant.'

  Dryden, who one would have thought had more wit,
      The censure of every man did disdain,
  Pleading some pitiful rhymes he had writ
      In praise of the Countess of Castlemaine."

The play itself contained too many of those prize-fights of wit, as Buckingham called them,
in which the plot stood absolutely still, while two of the characters were showing the audience
their dexterity at repartee. This error furnishes matter for a lively scene in the "Rehearsal."

The "Rival Ladies," acted in 1663, and published in the year following, was our author's next
dramatic essay. It is a tragi-comedy; and the tragic scenes are executed in rhyme,--a style
which Dryden anxiously defended, in a Dedication addressed to the Earl of Orrery, who had himself
written several heroic plays. He cites against blank verse the universal practice of the most
polished and civilised nations, the Spanish, the Italian, and the French; enumerates its advantages
in restraining the luxuriance of the poet's imagination, and compelling him to labour long
upon his clearest and richest thoughts: but he qualifies his general assertion by affirming,
that heroic verse ought only to be applied to heroic situations and personages; and shows to
most advantage in the scenes of argumentation, on which the doing or forbearing some considerable
action should depend. Accordingly, in the "Rival Ladies," those scenes of the play which approach
to comedy (for it contains none properly comic) are written in blank verse. The Dedication
contains two remarkable errors: The author mistakes the title of "Ferrex and Porrex," a play
written by Sackville Lord Buckhurst, and Norton; and he ascribes to Shakespeare the first introduction
of blank verse. The "Rival Ladies" seems to have been well received, and was probably of some
advantage to the author.

In 1663-4, we find Dryden assisting Sir Robert Howard, who must be termed his friend, if not
his patron, in the composition of a rhyming play, called the "Indian Queen." The versification
of this piece, which is far more harmonious than that generally used by Howard, shows evidently,
that our author had assiduously corrected the whole play, though it may be difficult to say
how much of it was written by him. Clifford afterwards upbraided Dryden with having copied
his Almanzor from the character of Montezuma;[11] and it must be allowed, there is a striking
resemblance between these two outrageous heroes, who carry conquest to any side they choose,
and are restrained by no human consideration, excepting the tears or commands of their mistress.
But whatever share Dryden had in this piece, Sir Robert Howard retained possession of the title-page
without acknowledgment, and Dryden nowhere gives himself the trouble of reclaiming his property,
except in a sketch of the connection between the "Indian Queen," and "Indian Emperor," where
he simply states, that he wrote a part of the former. The "Indian Queen" was acted with very
great applause, to which, doubtless, the scenery and dresses contributed not a little. Moreover,
it presented battles and sacrifices on the stage, aerial demons singing in the air, and the
god of dreams ascending through a trap; the least of which has often saved a worse tragedy.

The "Indian Queen" having been thus successful, Dryden was encouraged to engraft upon it another
drama, entitled, the "Indian Emperor." It is seldom that the continuation of a concluded tale
is acceptable to the public. The present case was an exception, perhaps because the connection
between the "Indian Emperor" and its predecessor was neither close nor necessary. Indeed, the
whole persons of the "Indian Queen" are disposed of by the bowl and dagger, at the conclusion
of that tragedy, excepting Montezuma, who, with a second set of characters, the sons and daughters
of those deceased in the first part, occupies the stage in the second play. The author might,
therefore, have safely left the audience to discover the plot of the "Indian Emperor," without
embarrassing them with that of the "Indian Queen." But to prevent mistakes, and principally,
I should think, to explain the appearance of three ghosts, the only persons (if they can be
termed such) who have any connection with the former drama, Dryden took the precaution to print
and disperse an argument of the play, in order, as the "Rehearsal" intimated, to insinuate
into the audience some conception of his plot. The "Indian Emperor" was probably the first
of Dryden's performances which drew upon him, in an eminent degree, the attention of the public.
It was dedicated to Anne, Duchess of Monmouth, whom long afterward our author styled his first
and best patroness.[12] This lady, in the bloom of youth and beauty, and married to a nobleman
no less the darling of his father than of the nation, had it in her power effectually to serve
Dryden, and doubtless exerted her influence in procuring him that rank in public opinion, which
is seldom early attained without the sanction of those who lead the fashion in literature.
The Duchess of Monmouth probably liked in the "Indian Emperor," not only the beauty of the
numbers, and the frequently exquisite turn of the description, but also the introduction of
incantations and apparitions, of which romantic style of writing she was a professed admirer.
The "Indian Emperor" had the most ample success; and from the time of its representation, till
the day of his death, our author, though often rudely assailed, maintained the very pinnacle
of poetical superiority, against all his contemporaries.

The dreadful fire of London, in 1666, put a temporary stop to theatrical exhibitions, which
were not permitted till the following Christmas. We may take this opportunity to review the
effect which the rise of Dryden's reputation had upon his private fortune and habits of life.

While our author was the literary assistant of Sir Robert Howard, and the hired labourer of
Herringman the bookseller, we may readily presume that his pretensions and mode of living were
necessarily adapted to that mode of life, into which he had descended by the unpopularity of
his puritanical connections. Even for some time after his connection with the theatre, we learn,
from a contemporary, that his dress was plain at least, if not mean, and his pleasures moderate,
though not inelegant.[13] But as his reputation advanced, he naturally glided into more expensive
habits, and began to avail himself of the licence, as well as to partake of the pleasures,
of the time. We learn, from a poem of his enemy Milbourne, that Dryden's person was advantageous;
and that, in the younger part of his life, he was distinguished by the emulous favour of the
fair sex.[14] And although it would not be edifying, were it possible, to trace instances of
his success in gallantry, we may barely notice his intrigue with Mrs. Reeve, a beautiful actress,
who performed in many of his plays. This amour was probably terminated before the fair lady's
retreat to a cloister, which seems to have taken place before the representation of Otway's
"Don Carlos," in 1676.[15] Their connection is alluded to in the "Rehearsal," which was acted
in 1671. Bayes, talking of Amarillis, actually represented by Mrs. Reeve, says, "Ay, 'tis a
pretty little rogue; she's my mistress: I knew her face would set off armour extremely; and
to tell you true, I writ that part only for her." There follows an obscure allusion to some
gallantry of our author in another quarter. But Dryden's amours were interrupted, if not terminated,
in 1665, by his marriage.

Our author's friendship with Sir Robert Howard and his increasing reputation, had introduced
him to the family of the Earl of Berkshire, father to his friend. In the course of this intimacy,
the poet gained the affections of Lady Elizabeth Howard, the Earl's eldest daughter, whom he
soon afterwards married.[16] The lampoons, by which Dryden's private character was assailed
in all points, allege, that this marriage was formed under circumstances dishonourable to the
lady. But of this there is no evidence; while the malignity of the reporters is evident and
undisguised. We may however believe, that the match was not altogether agreeable to the noble
family of Berkshire. Dryden, it is true, might, in point of descent, be admitted to form pretensions
to Lady Elizabeth Howard; but his family, though honourable, was in a kind of disgrace, from
the part which Sir Gilbert Pickering and Sir John Driden had taken in the civil wars: while
the Berkshire family were remarkable for their attachment to the royal cause. Besides, many
of the poet's relations were engaged in trade; and the alliance of his brothers-in-law, the
tobacconist and stationer, if it was then formed, could not sound dignified in the ears of
a Howard. Add to this a very important consideration,--Dryden had no chance of sharing the
wealth of his principal relations, which might otherwise have been received as an atonement
for the guilty confiscations by which it was procured. He had quarrelled with them, or they
with him; his present possession was a narrow independence; and his prospects were founded
upon literary success, always precarious, and then connected with circumstances of personal
abasement, which rendered it almost disreputable. A noble family might be allowed to regret,
that one of their members was chiefly to rely for the maintenance of her husband, her family,
and herself, upon the fees of dedications, and occasional pieces of poetry, and the uncertain
profits of the theatre.

Yet, as Dryden's manners were amiable, his reputation high, and his moral character unexceptionable
the Earl of Berkshire was probably soon reconciled to the match; and Dryden seems to have resided
with his father-in-law for some time, since it is from the Earl's seat of Charlton, in Wiltshire,
that he dates the introduction to the "Annus Mirabilis," published in the end of 1667.[17]

So honourable a connection might have been expected to have advanced our author's prospects
in a degree beyond what he experienced; but his father-in-law was poor, considering his rank,
and had a large family, so that the portion of Lady Elizabeth was inconsiderable. Nor was her
want of fortune supplied by patronage, or family influence. Dryden's preferment, as poet laureate,
was due to, and probably obtained by, his literary character; nor did he ever receive any boon
suitable to his rank, as son-in-law to an earl. But, what was worst of all, the parties did
not find mutual happiness in the engagement they had formed. It is difficult for a woman of
a violent temper and weak intellects, and such the lady seems to have been, to endure the apparently
causeless fluctuation of spirits incident to one doomed to labour incessantly in the feverish
exercise of the imagination. Unintentional neglect, and the inevitable relaxation, or rather
sinking of spirit, which follows violent mental exertion, are easily misconstrued into capricious
rudeness, or intentional offence; and life is embittered by mutual accusation, not the less
intolerable because reciprocally just. The wife of one who is to gain his livelihood by poetry,
or by any labour (if any there be) equally exhausting, must either have taste enough to relish
her husband's performances, or good-nature sufficient to pardon his infirmities. It was Dryden's
misfortune, that Lady Elizabeth had neither the one nor the other; and I dismiss the disagreeable
subject by observing, that on no one occasion, when a sarcasm against matrimony could be introduced,
has our author failed to season it with such bitterness as spoke an inward consciousness of
domestic misery.[18]

During the period when the theatres were closed, Dryden seems to have written and published
the "Annus Mirabilis" of which we spoke at the close of the last Section. But he was also then
labouring upon his "Essay of Dramatic Poesy." It was a singular trait in the character of our
author, that by whatever motive he was directed in his choice of a subject, and his manner
of treating it, he was upon all occasions, alike anxious to persuade the public, that both
the one and the other were the object of his free choice, founded upon the most rational grounds
of preference. He had, therefore, no sooner seriously bent his thoughts to the stage, and distinguished
himself as a composer of heroic plays, than he wrote his "Essay of Dramatic Poesy," in which
he assumes, that the drama was the highest department of poetry; and endeavours to prove, that
rhyming or heroic tragedies are the most legitimate offspring of the drama.

The subject is agitated in a dialogue between Lord Buckhurst, Sir Charles Sedley, Sir Robert
Howard, and the author himself, under the feigned names of Eugenius, Lisideius, Crites, and
Neander. This celebrated Essay was first published in the end of 1667, or beginning of 1668.
The author revised it with an unusual degree of care, and published it anew in 1684, with a
Dedication to Lord Buckhurst.

In the introduction of the dialogue, our author artfully solicits the attention of the public
to the improved versification, in which he himself so completely excelled all his contemporaries;
and contrasts the rugged lines and barbarous conceits of Cleveland with the more modern style
of composition, where the thoughts were moulded into easy and significant words, superfluities
of expression retrenched, and the rhyme rendered so properly a part of the verse, that it was
led and guided by the sense, which was formerly sacrificed in attaining it. This point being
previously settled, a dispute occurs concerning the alleged superiority of the ancient classic
models of dramatic composition. This is resolutely denied by all the speakers, excepting Crites;
the regulation of the unities is condemned, as often leading to greater absurdities than those
they were designed to obviate; and the classic authors are censured for the cold and trite
subjects of their comedies, the bloody and horrible topics of many of their tragedies, and
their deficiency in painting the passion of love. From all this, it is justly gathered, that
the moderns, though with less regularity, possess a greater scope for invention, and have discovered,
as it were, a new perfection in writing. This debated point being abandoned by Crites (or Howard),
the partisan of the ancients, a comparison between the French and English drama is next introduced.
Sedley, the celebrated wit and courtier, pleads the cause of the French, an opinion which perhaps
was not singular among the favourites of Charles II. But the rest of the speakers unite in
condemning the extolled simplicity of the French plots, as actual barrenness, compared to the
variety and copiousness of the English stage; and their authors' limiting the attention of
the audience and interest of the piece to a single principal personage, is censured as poverty
of imagination, when opposed to the diversification of characters exhibited in the dramatis
personae of the English poets. Shakespeare and Jonson are then brought forward, and contrasted
with the French dramatists, and with each other. The former is extolled, as the man of all
modern, and perhaps ancient, poets, who had the largest and most comprehensive soul, and intuitive
knowledge of human nature; and the latter, as the most learned and judicious writer which any
theatre ever had. But to Shakespeare, Dryden objects, that his comic sometimes degenerates
into clenches, and his serious into bombast; to Jonson, the sullen and saturnine character
of his genius, his borrowing from the ancients, and the insipidity of his latter plays. The
examen leads to the discussion of a point, in which Dryden had differed with Sir Robert Howard.
This was the use of rhyme in tragedy. Our author had, it will be remembered, maintained the
superiority of rhyming plays, in the Introduction to the "Rival Ladies." Sir Robert Howard,
the catalogue of whose virtues did not include that of forbearance made a direct answer to
the arguments used in that Introduction; and while he studiously extolled the plays of Lord
Orrery, as affording an exception to his general sentence against rhyming plays, he does not
extend the compliment to Dryden, whose defence of rhyme was expressly dedicated to that noble
author. Dryden, not much pleased, perhaps, at being left undistinguished in the general censure
passed upon rhyming plays by his friend and ally, retaliates in the Essay, by placing in the
mouth of Crites the arguments urged by Sir Robert Howard, and replying to them in the person
of Neander. To the charge, that rhyme is unnatural, in consequence of the inverted arrangement
of the words necessary to produce it, he replies, that, duly ordered, it may be natural in
itself, and therefore not unnatural in a play; and that, if the objection be further insisted
upon, it is equally conclusive against blank verse, or measure without rhyme. To the objection
founded on the formal and uniform recurrence of the measure, he alleges the facility of varying
it, by throwing the cadence upon different parts of the line, by breaking it into hemistichs,
or by running the sense into another line, so as to make art and order appear as loose and
free as nature.[19] Dryden even contends, that, for variety's sake, the pindaric measure might
be admitted, of which Davenant set an example in the "Siege of Rhodes." But this licence, which
was probably borrowed from the Spanish stage, has never succeeded elsewhere, except in operas.
Finally, it is urged, that rhyme, the most noble verse, is alone fit for tragedies, the most
noble species of composition; that, far from injuring a scene, in which quick repartee is necessary,
it is the last perfection of wit to put it into numbers; and that, even where a trivial and
common expression is placed, from necessity, in the mouth of an important character, it receives,
from the melody of versification, a dignity befitting the person that is to pronounce it. With
this keen and animated defence of a mode of composition, in which he felt his own excellence,
Dryden concludes the "Essay of Dramatic Poesy."

The publication of this criticism, the first that contained an express attempt to regulate
dramatic writing, drew general attention, and gave some offence. Sir Robert Howard felt noways
flattered at being made, through the whole dialogue, the champion of unsuccessful opinions:
and a partiality to the depreciated blank verse seems to have been hereditary in his family.[20]
He therefore hasted to assert his own opinion against that of Dryden, in the preface to one
of his plays, called the "Duke of Lerma," published in the middle of the year 1668. It is difficult
for two friends to preserve their temper in a dispute of this nature; and there may be reason
to believe, that some dislike to the alliance of Dryden, as a brother-in-law, mingled with
the poetical jealousy of Sir Robert Howard.[21] The Preface to the "Duke of Lerma" is written
in the tone of a man of quality and importance, who is conscious of stooping beneath his own
dignity, and neglecting his graver avocations, by engaging in a literary dispute. Dryden was
not likely, of many men, to brook this tone of affected superiority. He retorted upon Sir Robert
Howard very severely, in a tract, entitled, the "Defence of the Essay on Dramatic Poesy," which
he prefixed to the second edition of the "Indian Emperor," published in 1668. In this piece,
the author mentions his antagonist as master of more than twenty legions of arts and sciences,
in ironical allusion to Sir Robert's coxcombical affectation of universal knowledge, which
had already exposed him to the satire of Shadwell.[22] He is also described in reference to
some foolish appearance in the House of Commons, as having maintained a contradiction in terminis,
in the face of three hundred persons. Neither does Dryden neglect to hold up to ridicule the
slips in Latin and English grammar, which marked the offensive Preface to the "Duke of Lerma."
And although he concludes, that he honoured his adversary's parts and person as much as any
man living, and had so many particular obligations to him, that he should be very ungrateful
not to acknowledge them to the world, yet the personal and contemptuous severity of the whole
piece must have cut to the heart so proud a man as Sir Robert Howard. This quarrel between
the baronet and the poet, who was suspected of having crutched-up many of his lame performances,
furnished food for lampoon and amusement to the indolent wits of the day. But the breach between
the brothers-in-law, though wide, proved fortunately not irreconcilable; and towards the end
of Dryden's literary career, we find him again upon terms of friendship with the person by
whom he had been befriended at its commencement.[23] Edward Howard, who, it appears, had entered
as warmly as his brother into the contest with Dryden about rhyming tragedies, also seems to
have been reconciled to our poet; at least, he pronounced a panegyric on his translation of
Virgil before it left the press, in a passage which is also curious, from the author ranking
in the same line "the two elaborate poems of Milton and Blackmore."[24]

In testimony of total amnesty, the "Defence of the Essay" was cancelled; and it must be rare
indeed to meet with an original edition of it, since Mr. Malone had never seen one.[25]

Dryden's fame, as an author, was doubtless exalted by the "Essay of Dramatic Poesy;" which
showed, that he could not only write plays, but defend them when written. His circumstances
rendered it necessary, that he should take the full advantage of his reputation to meet the
increasing expense of a wife and family; and it was probably shortly after the Essay appeared,
that our author entered into his memorable contract with the King's Company of players. The
precise terms of this agreement have been settled by Mr. Malone from unquestionable evidence,
after being the subject of much doubt and uncertainty. It is now certain, that, confiding in
the fertility of his genius, and the readiness of his pen, Dryden undertook to write for the
King's house no less than three plays in the course of the year. In consideration of this engagement,
he was admitted to hold one share and a quarter in the profits of the theatre, which was stated
by the managers to have produced him three or four hundred pounds, communibus annis. Either,
however, the players became sensible, that, by urging their pensioner to continued drudgery,
they in fact lessened the value of his labour, or Dryden felt himself unequal to perform the
task he had undertaken; for the average number of plays which he produced, was only about half
that which had been contracted for. The company, though not without grudging, paid the poet
the stipulated share of profit; and the curious document, recovered by Mr. Malone, not only
establishes the terms of the bargain, but that the players, although they complained of the
laziness of their indented author, were jealous of their right to his works, and anxious to
retain possession of him, and of them.[26] It would have been well for Dryden's reputation,
and perhaps not less productive to the company, had the number of his plays been still further
abridged; for, while we admire the facility that could produce five or six plays in three years,
we lament to find it so often exerted to the sacrifice of the more essential qualities of originality
and correctness.

Dryden had, however, made his bargain, and was compelled to fulfil it the best he might. As
his last tragic piece, the "Indian Emperor," had been eminently successful, he was next to
show the public, that his talents were not limited to the buskin; and accordingly, late in
1667, was represented the "Maiden Queen," a tragi-comedy, in which, although there is a comic
plot separate from the tragic design, our author boasts to have retained all that regularity
and symmetry of parts which the dramatic laws require. The tragic scenes of the "Maiden Queen"
were deservedly censured, as falling beneath the "Indian Emperor." They have neither the stately
march of the heroic dialogue, nor, what we would be more pleased to have found in them, the
truth of passion, and natural colouring, which characterised the old English drama. But the
credit of the piece was redeemed by the comic part, which is a more light and airy representation
of the fashionable and licentious manners of the time than Dryden could afterwards attain,
excepting in "Marriage à la Mode." The king, whose judgment on this subject was unquestionable
graced the "Maiden Queen" with the title of his play; and Dryden insinuates that it would have
been dedicated to him, had he had confidence to follow the practice of the French poets in
like cases. At least, he avoided the solecism of inscribing the king's own play to a subject;
and, instead of a dedication, we have a preface, in which the sovereign's favourable opinion
of the piece is studiously insisted upon. Neither was the praise of Charles conferred without
critical consideration; for he justly censured the concluding scene, in which Celadon and Florimel
treat of their marriage in very light terms in presence of the Queen, who stands by, an idle
spectator. This insult to Melpomene, and preference of her comic sister, our author acknowledges
to be a fault, but seemingly only in deference to the royal opinion; for he instantly adds,
that, in his own judgment, the scene was necessary to make the piece go off smartly, and was,
in the estimation of good judges, the most diverting of the whole comedy.

Encouraged by the success of the "Maiden Queen," Dryden proceeded to revive the "Wild Gallant;"
and, in deference to his reputation, it seems now to have been more favourably received than
at its first representation.

The "Maiden Queen" was followed by the "Tempest," an alteration of Shakespeare's play of the
same name, in which Dryden assisted Sir William Davenant. It seems probable that Dryden furnished
the language, and Davenant the plan of the new characters introduced. They do but little honour
to his invention, although Dryden has highly extolled it in his preface. The idea of a counterpart
to Shakespeare's plot, by introducing a man who had never seen a woman, as a contrast to a
woman who had never seen a man, and by furnishing Caliban with a sister monster, seems hardly
worthy of the delight with which Dryden says he filled up the characters so sketched. In mixing
his tints, Dryden did not omit that peculiar colouring, in which his age delighted. Miranda's
simplicity is converted into indelicacy, and Dorinda talks the language of prostitution before
she has ever seen a man. But the play seems to have succeeded to the utmost wish of the authors.
It was brought out in the Duke's house, of which Davenant was manager, with all the splendour
of scenic decoration, of which he was inventor. The opening scene is described as being particularly
splendid, and the performance of the spirits, "with mops and mows," excited general applause.
Davenant died before the publication of this piece, and his memory is celebrated in the preface.

Our author's next play, if it could be properly called his, was "Sir Martin Mar-all." This
was originally a translation of "L'Etourdi" of Molière, executed by the Duke of Newcastle,
famous for his loyalty, and his skill of horsemanship. Dryden availed himself of the noble
translator's permission to improve and bring "Sir Martin Mar-all" forward for his own benefit.
It was attended with the most complete success, being played four times at court, and above
thirty times at the theatre in Lincoln's-Inn Fields; a run chiefly attributed to the excellent
performance of Nokes, who represented Sir Martin.[27] The "Tempest" and "Sir Martin Mar-all"
were both acted by the Duke's Company, probably because Dryden was in the one assisted by Sir
William Davenant the manager, and because the other was entered in the name of the Duke of
Newcastle. Of these two plays, "Sir Martin Mar-all" was printed anonymously in 1668. It did
not appear with Dryden's name until 1697. The "Tempest," though acted before "Sir Martin Mar-all,"
was not printed until 1669-70. They are in the present, as in former editions, arranged according
to the date of publication, which gives the precedence to "Sir Martin Mar-all," though last acted.

The "Evening's Love, or the Mock Astrologer," was Dryden's next composition. It is an imitation
of "Le Feint Astrologue" of [T.] Corneille, which is founded upon Calderon's "El Astrologo
Fingido." Several of the scenes are closely imitated from Molière's "Dépit Amoureux." Having
that lively bustle, intricacy of plot, and surprising situation, which the taste of the time
required, and being enlivened by the characters of Wildblood and Jacinta, the "Mock Astrologer"
seems to have met a favourable reception in 1668, when it first appeared. It was printed in
the same, or in the following year, and inscribed to the Duke of Newcastle, to whom Dryden
had been indebted for the sketch of "Sir Martin Mar-all." It would seem, that this gallant
and chivalrous peer was then a protector of Dryden, though he afterwards seems more especially
to have patronised his enemy Shadwell; upon whose northern dedications, inscribed to the duke
and his lady, our author is particularly severe. In the preface to the "Evening's Love," Dryden
anxiously justifies himself from the charge of encouraging libertinism, by crownings rake and
coquette with success. But after he has arrayed all the authority of the ancient and modern
poets, and has pleaded that these licentious characters are only made happy after being reclaimed
in the last scene, we may be permitted to think, that more proper heroes may be selected than
those, who, to merit the reward assigned them, must announce a violent and sudden change from
the character they have sustained during five acts; and the attempt to shroud himself under
authority of others, is seldom resorted to by Dryden when a cause is otherwise tenable. In
this preface also he justified himself from the charge of plagiarism by showing that the mere
story is the least part either of the labour of the poet, or of the graces of the poem; quoting
against his critics the expression of the king, who had said, he wished those, who charged
Dryden with theft, would always steal him plays like Dryden's.

The "Royal Martyr" was acted in 1668-9, and printed in 1670. It is, in every respect, a proper
heroic tragedy, and had a large share of the applause with which those pieces were then received.
It abounds in bombast, but is not deficient in specimens of the sublime and of the tender.
The preface is distinguished by that tone of superiority, which Dryden often assumed over the
critics of the time. Their general observations he cut short, by observing, that those who
make them produce nothing of their own, or only what is more ridiculous than any thing they
reprehend. Special objections are refuted, by an appeal to classical authority.

And he concludes by exulting, that, though he might have written nonsense, none of his critics
had been so happy as to discover it. These indications of superiority, being thought to savour
of vanity, had their share in exciting the storm of malevolent criticism, of which Dryden afterwards
so heavily complained. "Tyrannic Love" is dedicated to the Duke of Monmouth; but it would seem
the compliment was principally designed to his duchess. The Duke, whom Dryden was afterwards
to celebrate in very different strains, is however compared to an Achilles, or Rinaldo, who
wanted only a Homer, or Tasso, to give him the fame due to him.

It was in this period of prosperity, of general reputation, of confidence in his genius, and
perhaps of presumption, (if that word can be applied to Dryden,) that he produced those two
very singular plays, the First and Second Parts of the "Conquest of Granada." In these models
of the pure heroic drama, the ruling sentiments of love and honour are carried to the most
passionate extravagance. And, to maintain the legitimacy of this style of composition, our
author, ever ready to vindicate with his pen to be right, that which his timid critics murmured
at as wrong, threw the gauntlet down before the admirers of the ancient English school, in
the Epilogue to the "Second Part of the Conquest of Granada," and in the Defence of that Epilogue.
That these plays might be introduced to the public with a solemnity corresponding in all respects
to models of the rhyming tragedy, they were inscribed to the Duke of York, and prefaced by
an "Essay upon Heroic Plays." They were performed in 1669-70, and received with unbounded applause.
Before we consider the effect which they, and similar productions, produced on the public,
together with the progress and decay of the taste for heroic dramas, we may first notice the
effect which the ascendency of our author's reputation had produced upon his situation and
fortunes.

Whether we judge of the rank which Dryden held in society by the splendour of his titled and
powerful friends, or by his connections among men of genius, we must consider him as occupying
at this time, as high a station in the very foremost circle as literary reputation could gain
for its owner. Independent of the notice with which he was honoured by Charles himself, the
poet numbered among his friends most of the distinguished nobility. The great Duke of Ormond
had already begun that connection which subsisted between Dryden and three generations of the
house of Butler; Thomas Lord Clifford, one of the Cabal ministry, was uniform in patronising
the poet, and appears to have been active in introducing him to the king's favour; the Duke
of Newcastle, as we have seen, loved him sufficiently to present him with a play for the stage;
the witty Earl of Dorset, then Lord Buckhurst, and Sir Charles Sedley, admired in that loose
age for the peculiar elegance of his loose poetry, were his intimate associates, as is evident
from the turn of the "Essay of Dramatic Poesy," where they are speakers; Wilmot Earl of Rochester
(soon to act a very different part) was then anxious to vindicate Dryden's writings, to mediate
for him with those who distributed the royal favour, and was thus careful, not only of his
reputation, but his fortune. In short, the first author of what was then held the first style
of poetry, was sought for by all among the great and gay who wished to maintain some character
for literary taste; a description which included all of the court of Charles whom nature had
not positively incapacitated from such pretension. It was then Dryden enjoyed those genial
nights described in the dedication of the "Assignation," when discourse was neither too serious
nor too light, but always pleasant, and for the most part instructive; the raillery neither
too sharp upon the present, nor too censorious upon the absent; and the cups such only as raised
the conversation of the night, without disturbing the business of the morrow. He had not yet
experienced the disadvantages attendant on such society, or learned how soon literary eminence
becomes the object of detraction, of envy, of injury, even from those who can best feel its
merit, if they are discouraged by dissipated habits from emulating its flight, or hardened
by perverted feeling against loving its possessors.

But, besides the society of these men of wit and pleasure, Dryden enjoyed the affection and
esteem of the ingenious Cowley, who wasted his brilliant talents in the unprofitable paths
of metaphysical poetry; of Waller and of Denham, who had done so much for English versification;
of Davenant, as subtle as Cowley, and more harmonious than Denham, who, with a happier model,
would probably have excelled both. Dryden was also known to Milton, though it may be doubted
whether they justly appreciated the talents of each other. Of all the men of genius at this
period, whose claims to immortality our age has admitted, Butler alone seems to have been the
adversary of our author's reputation.[28]

While Dryden was thus generally known and admired, the advancement of his fortune bore no equal
progress to the splendour of his literary fame. Something was, however, done to assist it.
The office of royal historiographer had become vacant in 1666 by the decease of James Howell,
and in 1668 the death of Davenant opened the situation of poet-laureate. These two offices,
with a salary of £200 paid quarterly, and the celebrated annual butt of canary, were conferred
upon Dryden 18th August 1670.[29] The grant bore a retrospect to the term after Davenant's
demise, and is declared to be to "John Dryden, master of arts, in consideration of his many
acceptable services theretofore done to his present Majesty, and from an observation of his
learning and eminent abilities, and his great skill and elegant style, both in verse and prose."[30]
Thus was our author placed at the head of the literary class of his countrymen, so far as that
high station could be conferred by the favour of the monarch.

If we compute Dryden's share in the theatre at £300 annually, which is lower than it was rated
by the actors in their petition;[31] if we make, at the same time, some allowance for those
presents which authors of that time received upon presenting dedications, or occasional pieces
of poetry; if we recollect, that Dryden had a small landed property, and that his wife, Lady
Elizabeth had probably some fortune or allowance, however trifling, from her family,--I think
we will fall considerably under the mark in computing the poet's income, during this period
of prosperity, at £600 or £700 annually; a sum more adequate to procure all the comforts, and
many of the luxuries of life, than thrice the amount at present. We must, at the same time,
recollect that though Dryden is nowhere censured for extravagance, poets are seldom capable
of minute economy, and that Lady Elizabeth was by education, and perhaps by nature, unfitted
for supplying her husband's deficiencies. These halcyon days, too, were but of short duration.
The burning of the theatre, in 1670,[32] greatly injured the poet's income from that quarter;
his pension, like other appointments of the household establishment of Charles II., was very
irregularly paid; and thus, if his income was competent in amount, it was precarious and uncertain.

Leaving Dryden for the present in the situation which we have described, and which he occupied
during the most fortunate period of his life, the next Section may open with an account of
the public taste at this time, and of the revolution in it which shortly took place.

 FOOTNOTES:

[1] Malone's "History of the Stage."

[2] [Although criticism of the purely literary kind has been as much as possible avoided in
these notes, it seems necessary to say a few words here to put the reader on his guard. Scott's
acquaintance with the English drama was extensive, but he was not equally well acquainted with
the French, and (as almost all persons in France as well as in England were till recently)
was all but ignorant of French drama before Corneille The attribution of the French classical
drama to the Scudéry romance and the influence of Louis XIV. is entirely erroneous. That drama
was introduced by Jodelle, the dramatic poet of the Pléiade in the middle of the sixteenth
century, and was strictly fashioned on the model of Seneca. Successive improvements, culminating
in those of Corneille, were introduced in it, but its main lines continued the same. Scott
has also left out of sight a very important element in the constitution of the English heroic
play. When Davenant before the Restoration obtained Cromwell's permission to reintroduce dramatic
entertainments, if not plays, music necessarily formed the chief part of the performance. It
was in fact an opera, and operatic peculiarities remained after all restriction had been taken
off. Scott assigns on the whole far too much influence to the French drama and to the personal
predilection of Charles. The subject is a large one, and has never been fully handled, but
readers may be referred to the present editor's Dryden, pp. 18-20; and still more to an essay
on Sir George Etherege by Mr. E.W. Gosse in the Cornhill Magazine for March 1881.--ED.]

[3] Haud inexperta loquitur. "I have," she continues, "(and yet I am still alive,) drudged
through Le Grand Cyrus, in twelve huge volumes; Cleopatra, in eight or ten; Polexander, Ibrahim,
Clélie, and some others, whose names, as well as all the rest of them, I have forgotten."--Letter
of Mrs. Chapone to Mrs. Carter.

[4] Dedication to the "Indian Emperor."

[5] In this particular a watch was kept over the stage. "The Maid's Tragedy," which turns upon
the seduction of Evadne by a licentious and profligate king, was prohibited during the reign
of Charles II., as admitting certain unfavourable applications. The moral was not consolatory,--

    "on lustful kings,
  Unlooked-for sudden deaths from heaven are sent."

See Cibber's Apology, p. 199. Waller, in compliment to the court, wrote a 5th Act, in which
that admired drama is terminated less tragically.

[6] It was a part of the duty of the master of the revels to read over and correct the improprieties
of such plays as were to be brought forward. Several instances occur, in Sir Henry Herbert's
Office-book, of the exercise of his authority in this point. See Malone's History of the Stage.

[7] Lord Holland's "Life of Lope de Vega," p. 128.

[8] The "Wild Gallant," which Charles commanded to be performed before him more than once,
was of the class of Spanish comedies. The "Maiden Queen," which the witty monarch honoured
with the title of his play, is in the same division. Sir Samuel Tuke's "Adventures of Five
Hours," and Crowne's "Sir Courtly Nice," were both translated from the Spanish by the king's
express recommendation.

[9] The gracioso or buffoon, according to Lord Holland, held an intermediate character between
a spectator and a character in the play; interrupting with his remarks, at one time, the performance,
of which he forms an essential, but very defective part in another. His part was, I presume,
partly written, partly extempore. Something of the kind was certainly known upon our stage.
Wilson and Tarleton, in their capacity of clowns, entered freely into a contest of wit with
the spectators, which was not at all held inconsistent with their having a share in the performance.
Nor was tragedy exempted from their interference. Hall, after telling us of a tragic representation,
informs us,

  "Now least such frightful showes of fortunes fall,
  And bloudy tyrants' rage, should chance appall
  The dead-struck audience, 'midst the silent rout
  Comes leaping in a selfe-misformed lout,
  And laughes, and grins, and frames his mimick face,
  And justles straight into the prince's place:
  Then doth the theatre echo all aloud
  With gladsome noyse of that applauding croud.
  A goodly hoch-poch, when vile russetings
  Are matcht with monarchs and with mighty kings."

This extemporal comic part seems to have been held essential to dramatic representation, in
most countries in Europe, during the infancy of the art. Something of the same kind is still
retained in the lower kinds of popular exhibitions; and the clowns to the shows of tumbling
and horsemanship, with my much-respected friend Mr. Punch in a puppet-show, bear a pretty close
resemblance to the gracioso of the Spaniards, the arlequino of the Italians, and the clown
of the ancient English drama. See Malone's History of the Stage.

[10] [This is at least not true of the "Parson's Wedding."--ED.]

[11] Notes on Mr. Dryden's Poems, 1687.

[12] Preface to "King Arthur." It has been suggested that the writer was Southerne, but it
is impossible to make things tally. As Dryden certainly had paid his court to the great by
1670, if not by 1665, there is the almost insuperable difficulty of supposing that the writer
could have associated with Dryden in parties of pleasure seventy-five years before date--a
difficulty all the more difficult in that he only claims to be in his eighty-seventh year.
It would be worthy of little attention, if the eager assailants of Dryden's moral character
had not sought to see evidence of the deepest turpitude in this tart-eating with Mrs. Reeve
and the anonymous letter-writer.--ED.]

[14] He describes him as,

  "Still smooth, as when, adorned with youthful pride,
  For thy dear sake the blushing virgins died,
  When the kind gods of wit and love combined,
  And with large gifts thy yielding soul refined."

[15] The epilogue has these lines:

  "But now if by my suit you'll not be won,
  You know what your unkindness oft has done,--
  I'll e'en forsake the playhouse, and turn Nun."

[16] [Scott's account of the marriage is incorrect in one or two particulars, and incomplete
in others. It took place on the 1st of December 1663, at St. Swithin's, and the licence, dated
the day before, removes all idea of a clandestine match or of family disapproval.

"Ultimo Novembris 1663

[Sidenote: Juratus Hen: Smyth: Jun:]

Which day appeared personally John Driden of St. Clemt. Danes in the County of Midd Esqr aged
about 30ty yeeres and a Batchelor and alledged that hee intendeth to marry with Dame Elizabeth
Howard of St. Martin in the Fields in the County aforesaid aged about 25 yeeres with the consent
of her Father Thomas Earle of Berke not knowing nor believing any impediment to hinder the
intended marriage of the truth of the prmisses he made faith and prayed Licence for them to
bee married in the parish church of St. Swithins London." 

While, however, this entry, discovered since Scott wrote, clears up one part of the story,
another discovery has been thought to darken it again. The following letter from Lady Elizabeth
Howard appears in the letters of Philip, second Earl of Chesterfield:--

"From the Lady Elizabeth Howard Daughter to the Earle of Barksshire.

"1658.

"My LORD,--I received yours, though not without great trouble, but am not guilty of any thing
you lay to my charge, nor will I ever alter from the expressions I have formerly made, therefore
I hope you will not be so unjust as to beleive all that the world sayes of mee, but rather
credit my protestation of never having named you to my friends, being allwayes carefull of
that for my own sake as well as yours; and therefore let it not be in the power of any, nor
of your own inclinations, to make mee less,

Your very humble Servant.

"If you will meet mee in the Old Exchange, about six a clock, I will justify my selfe."--Letters
of Philip, second Earl of Chesterfield, 1829, p. 95. This was the same Earl of Chesterfield
to whom Dryden dedicated the Georgics thirty years later.

As Dryden's detractors have been nearly as anxious to blacken his wife's character as his own,
they have seized on this letter to confirm the reckless and random assertions of contemporary
libellers, that her reputation was questionable. The matter may be left to readers to decide,--I
can see nothing in the phrases necessarily implying any improper intimacy.

Perhaps it is not superfluous to observe that Scott has not shown his accustomed judgment and
knowledge of the seventeenth century in his remark about the Howards and the tobacconists.
The separation between classes, as such, was indeed sharp; but it was probably rather more
than less usual then than now for scions of noble and gentle families to go into retail trade.
It may be added that the evidence of a quarrel between Dryden and his own family is far from
strong, and that one of the causes assigned by Scott for that quarrel, the change of spelling,
is very dubious as a matter of fact. It has been seen that "Driden" appears in the licence,
and it is not certain that the poet invented the y, or first used it.

Very shortly after the marriage occurs the first mention of Dryden of a personal kind. The
poem appeared immediately afterwards. Pepys bought it on the 2d of February, and pronounced
it "a very good poem." Some other dates and facts of a more precise kind than those in the
text may be given here. Dryden left London in the summer of 1665, either from dread of the
plague, or because the playhouses were shut. The interval of eighteen months seems to have
been wholly spent at Charlton, and Charles Dryden, his eldest son, was born during this time,
though the precise date is not known. Charlton is near Malmesbury in Wiltshire, and as Dryden
afterwards speaks of himself as possessed of some property in that county, it has been reasonably
conjectured that it was in virtue of a settlement on his wife. But if so, it cannot have been
freehold property of Lord Berkshire's, as the poet says that he holds of the Hydes. Lady Elizabeth
had received a considerable grant (£3000) from the Crown in recognition of her father's services,
but it is not certain that it was ever paid. No London domicile of his is known except the
house in Gerrard Street, now marked with a plate by the Society of Arts. There is a house--now
subdivided--in Fetter Lane which also has a plate (the successor of a stone inscription) stating
that Dryden lived there. No biographer takes notice of this, and the topographers who do notice
it do not believe the story. If there be any foundation for it, the period of his residence
must probably have been before his marriage.-- ED.]

[18] [I venture to think this last remark overstated. Sarcasms on matrimony were the fashion,
and Dryden followed it. The evidence of mutual unhappiness is almost nil.--ED.]

[19] Sandford, a most judicious actor, is said, by Cibber, cautiously to have observed this
rule, in order to avoid surfeiting the audience by the continual recurrence of rhyme.

[20] The Honourable Edward Howard, Sir Robert's brother, expresses himself in the preface to
the "Usurper," a play Published in 1668, "not insensible to the disadvantage it may receive
passing into the world upon the naked feet of verse, with other works that have their measures
adorned with the trappings of rhyme, which, however they have succeeded in wit or design, is
still thought music, as the heroic tone now goes; but whether so natural to a play, that should
most nearly imitate, in some cases, our familiar converse, the judicious may easily determine."

[21] [A dislike which was silent for five years, if it existed.--ED.]

[22] Who drew Sir Robert in the character of Sir Positive Atall in the "Sullen Lovers;" "a
foolish knight, that pretends to understand everything in the world, and will suffer no man
to understand anything in his company; so foolishly positive, that he will never be convinced
of an error, though never so gross." This character is supported with great humour.

[23] In a letter from Dryden to Tonson, dated 26th May 1696, in which he reckons upon Sir Robert
Howard's assistance in a pecuniary transaction.

[24] "I am informed Mr. Dryden is now translating of Virgil; and although I must own it is
a fault to forestall or anticipate the praise of a man in his labours, yet, big with the greatness
of the work, and the vast capacity of the author, I cannot here forbear saying, that Mr. Dryden,
in the translating of Virgil, will of a certain make Maro speak better than ever Maro thought.
Besides those already mentioned, there are other ingredients and essential parts of poetry,
necessary for the forming of a truly great and happy genius, viz. a free air and spirit, a
vigorous and well governed thought, which are, as it were, the soul which inform and animate
the whole mass and body of verse. But these are such divine excellencies as are peculiar only
to the brave and the wise. The first chief in verse, who trode in this sweet and delightful
path of the Muses, was the renowned Earl of Roscommon, a great worthy, as well as a great wit;
and who is, in all respects, resembled by another great Lord of this present age, viz. my Lord
Cutts, a person whom all people must allow to be an accomplished gentleman, a great general,
and a fine poet.

"The two elaborate poems of Blackmore and Milton, the which, for the dignity of them, may very
well be looked upon as the two grand exemplars of poetry, do either of them exceed, and are
more to be valued than all the poets, both of the Romans and the Greeks put together. There
are two other incomparable pieces of poetry, viz. Mr. Dryden's 'Absalom and Achitophel,' and
the epistle of a known and celebrated wit (Mr. Charles Montague) to my Lord of Dorset, the
best judge in poetry, as well as the best poet; the tutelar numen o' the stage, and on whose
breath all the Muses have their dependence."--Proem to an Essay on Pastoral, and Elegy on Queen
Mary, by the Honourable Edward Howard, 21st January 1695.

[25] That now before me is prefixed to the second edition of the "Indian Emperor," 1668.

[26] [It seems to have been a memorial addressed to the Lord Chamberlain for the time, and
was long in the possession of the Killigrew family. It was communicated by the learned Mr.
Reed to Mr. Malone, and runs as follows:--

"Whereas, upon Mr. Dryden's binding himself to write three playes a yeere, the said Mr. Dryden,
was admitted, and continued as a sharer, in the King's Playhouse for diverse years, and received
for his share and a quarter, three or four hundred pounds, communibus annis; but though he
received the moneys, we received not the playes, not one in a yeare. After which, the House
being burnt, the Company, in building another, contracted great debts, so that the shares fell
much short of what they were formerly. Thereupon, Mr. Dryden complaining to the Company of
his want of proffit, the Company was so kind to him, that they not only did not presse him
for the playes which he so engaged to write for them, and for which he was paid beforehand,
but they did also, at his earnest request, give him a third day for his last new play, called
'All for Love;' and at the receipt of the money of the said third day, he acknowledged it as
a guift, and a particular kindnesse of the Company. Yet, notwithstanding this kind proceeding,
Mr. Dryden has now, jointly with Mr. Lee (who was in pension with us to the last day of our
playing, and shall continue), written a play, called 'Oedipus,' and given it to the Duke's
Company, contrary to his said agreement, his promise, and all gratitude, to the great prejudice
and almost undoing of the Company, they being the only poets remaining to us. Mr. Crowne, being
under the like agreement with the Duke's House, writt a play, called the 'Destruction of Jerusalem,'
and being forced, by their refusall of it, to bring it to us, the said Company compelled us,
after the studying of it, and a vast expence in scenes and cloathes, to buy off their clayme,
by paying all the pension he had received from them, amounting to one hundred and twelve pounds
paid by the King's Company, besides neere forty pounds he, the said Mr. Crowne, paid out of
his owne pocket.

"These things considered, if, notwithstanding Mr. Dryden's said agreement, promise, and moneys,
freely given him for his said last new play, and the many titles we have to his writings, this
play be judged away from us, we must submit.

(Signed)  "CHARLES KILLIGREW.
           CHARLES HART.
           RICH. BURT.
           CARDELL GOODMAN.
           MIC. MOHUN."

Dryden also appears as a regular partner in the King's Company in an agreement to repay money
lent for the purpose of rebuilding the Theatre after its burning in 1672.--Shakespeare Society's
Papers, iv. 147.-- ED.]

[27] Cibber, with his usual vivacity, thus describes the comic powers of Nokes in this admired
character:

"In the ludicrous distresses, which, by the laws of comedy, folly is often involved in, he
sunk into such a mixture of piteous pusillanimity, and a consternation so ruefully ridiculous
and inconsolable, that when he had shook you to a fatigue of laughter, it became a moot point,
whether you ought not to have pity'd him. When he debated any matter by himself, he would shut
up his mouth with a dumb studious powt, and roll his full eye into such a vacant amazement,
such palpable ignorance of what to think of it, that his silent perplexity (which would sometimes
hold him several minutes) gave your imagination as full content, as the most absurd thing he
could say upon it. In the character of Sir Martin Mar-all, who is always committing blunders
to the prejudice of his own interest, when he had brought himself to a dilemma in his affairs,
by vainly proceeding upon his own head, and was afterwards afraid to look his governing servant
and counsellor in the face; what a copious and distressful harangue have I seen him make with
his looks (while the house has been in one continued roar for several minutes) before he could
prevail with his courage to speak a word to him! Then might you have, at once, read in his
face vexation--that his own measures, which he had piqued himself upon, had failed; envy of
his servant's wit; distress--to retrieve the occasion he had lost; shame--to confess his folly;
and yet a sullen desire to be reconciled, and better advised for the future! What tragedy ever
showed us such a tumult of passions rising, at once, in one bosom! or what buskin hero, standing
under the load of them, could have more effectually moved his spectators by the most pathetic
speech, than poor miserable Nokes did by this silent eloquence, and piteous plight of his features?"--CIBBER'S
Apology, p. 86.

[28] [This sentence rests on a rather slender basis of fact. Butler is said to have had a share
in the "Rehearsal," and certainly wrote a charming parody of the usual heroic-play dialogue,
in his scene between "Cat and Puss." But this of itself can hardly be said to justify the phrase
"adversary of our author's reputation." As for Dryden, he nowhere attacks Butler, and speaks
honourably of him after his death in his complaint to Lawrence Hyde.--ED.]

[29] [This is the correct date of the patent. There is however in the Record Office an instruction
for the preparation of a bill for the purpose, dated April 13. This was pointed out to me by
Mr. W. Noel Sainsbury.--ED.]

[30] Pat. 22 Car. 11. p. 6, ii. 6. Malone, i. p. 88.

[31] Their account was probably exaggerated. Upon a similar occasion, the master of the revels
stated the value of his winter and summer benefit plays at £50 each; although, in reality,
they did not, upon an average, produce him £9. See Malone's Historical Account of the Stage.

The rage for imitating the French stage, joined to the successful efforts of our author, had
now carried the heroic or rhyming tragedy to its highest pitch of popularity. The principal
requisites of such a drama are summed up by Dryden in the first two lines of the "Orlando Furioso,"

  "Le Donne, i cavalier, l'arme, gli amori
  Le cortesie, l'audaci imprese."

The story thus partaking of the nature of a romance of chivalry, the whole interest of the
play necessarily turned upon love and honour, those supreme idols of the days of knight-errantry
The love introduced was not of that ordinary sort, which exists between persons of common mould;
it was the love of Amadis and Oriana, of Oroondates and Statira; that love which required a
sacrifice of every wish, hope, and feeling unconnected with itself, and which was expressed
in the language of prayer and of adoration. It was that love which was neither to be chilled
by absence, nor wasted by time, nor quenched by infidelity. No caprice in the object beloved
entitled her slave to emancipate himself from her fetters; no command, however unreasonable,
was to be disobeyed; if required by the fair mistress of his affections, the hero was not only
to sacrifice his interest, but his friend, his honour, his word, his country, even the gratification
of his love itself, to maintain the character of a submissive and faithful adorer. Much of
this mystery is summed up in the following speech of Almahide to Almanzor, and his answer,
from which it appears, that a lover of the true heroic vein never thought himself so happy,
as when he had an opportunity of thus showing the purity and disinterestedness of his passion.
Almanzor is commanded by his mistress to stay to assist his rival, the king, her husband. The
lover very naturally asks,

  Almanz. What recompence attends me, if I stay?

  Almah. You know I am from recompence debarred,
  But I will grant your merit a reward;
  Your flame's too noble to deserve a cheat,
  And I too plain to practise a deceit.
  I no return of love can ever make,
  But what I ask is for my husband's sake;
  He, I confess, has been ungrateful too,
  But he and I are ruined if you go;
  Your virtue to the hardest proof I bring;
  Unbribed, preserve a mistress and a king.

  Almanz. I'll stop at nothing that appears so brave:
  I'll do't, and now I no reward will have.
  You've given my honour such an ample field,
  That I may die, but that shall never yield.

The king, however, not perhaps understanding this nice point of honour, grows jealous, and
wishes to dismiss the disinterested ally, whom his spouse's beauty had enlisted in his service.
But this did not depend upon him; for Almanzor exclaims,

  Almanz. I wonnot go; I'll not be forced away:
  I came not for thy sake; nor do I stay.
  It was the queen who for my aid did send;
  And 'tis I only can the queen defend:
  I, for her sake, thy sceptre will maintain;
  And thou, by me, in spite of thee, shalt reign.

The most applauded scenes in these plays turned upon nice discussions of metaphysical passion,
such as in the days of yore were wont to be agitated in the courts and parliaments of love.
Some puzzling dilemma, or metaphysical abstraction, is argued between the personages on the
stage, whose dialogue, instead of presenting a scene of natural passion, exhibits a sort of
pleading or combat of logic, in which each endeavours to defend his own opinion by catching
up the idea expressed by the former speaker, and returning him his illustration, or simile,
at the rebound; and where the lover hopes everything from his ingenuity, and trusts nothing
to his passion. Thus, in the following scene between Almanzor and Almahide, the solicitations
of the lover, and the denials of the queen, are expressed in the very carte and tierce of poetical
argumentation:

  Almah. My light will sure discover those who talk.--
  Who dares to interrupt my private walk?

  Almanz. He, who dares love, and for that love must die.
  And, knowing this, dares yet love on, am I.

  Almah. That love which you can hope, and I can pay,
  May be received and given in open day;
  My praise and my esteem you had before;
  And you have bound yourself to ask no more.

  Almanz. Yes, I have bound myself; but will you take
  The forfeit of that bond, which force did make?

  Almah. You know you are from recompence debarred;
  But purest love can live without reward.

  Almanz. Pure love had need be to itself a feast;
  For, like pure elements, 'twill nourish least.

  Almah. It therefore yields the only pure content;
  For it, like angels, needs no nourishment.
  To eat and drink can no perfection be;
  All appetite implies necessity.

  Almanz. 'Twere well, if I could like a spirit live;
  But, do not angels food to mortals give?
  What if some demon should my death foreshow,
  Or bid me change, and to the Christians go;
  Will you not think I merit some reward,
  When I my love above my life regard?

  Almah. In such a case your change must be allowed:
  I would myself dispense with what you vowed.

  Almanz. Were I to die that hour when I possess,
  This minute shall begin my happiness.

  Almah. The thoughts of death your passion would remove;
  Death is a cold encouragement to love.

  Almanz. No; from my joys I to my death would run,
  And think the business of my life well done:
  But I should walk a discontented ghost,
  If flesh and blood were to no purpose lost.

This kind of Amoebaean dialogue was early ridiculed by the ingenious author of "Hudibras."[1]

It partakes more of the Spanish than of the French tragedy, although it does not demand that
the parody shall be so very strict, as to re-echo noun for noun, or verb for verb, which Lord
Holland gives us as a law of the age of Lope de Vega.[2] The English heroic poet did enough
if he displayed sufficient point in the dialogue, and alertness in adopting and retorting the
image presented by the preceding speech; though, if he could twist the speaker's own words
into an answer to his argument, it seems to have been held the more ingenious mode of confutation.

While the hero of a rhyming tragedy was thus unboundedly submissive in love, and dexterous
in applying the metaphysical logic of amorous jurisprudence it was essential to his character
that he should possess all the irresistible courage, and fortune of a preux chevalier. Numbers,
however unequal, were to be as chaff before the whirlwind of his valour; and nothing was to
be so impossible that, at the command of his mistress, he could not with ease achieve. When,
in the various changes of fortune which such tragedies demand, he quarrelled with those whom
he had before assisted to conquer,

  "Then to the vanquished part his fate he led,
  The vanquished triumphed, and the victor fled."

The language of such a personage, unless when engaged in argumentative dialogue with his mistress,
was, in all respects, as magnificent and inflated as might beseem his irresistible prowess.
Witness the famous speech of Almanzor:

  Almanz.     To live!
  If from thy hands alone my death can be,
  I am immortal and a god to thee.
  Like heaven I need but only to stand still,
  And, not concurring to thy life, I kill,
  Thou canst no title to my duty bring;
  I'm not thy subject, and my soul's thy king.
  Farewell. When I am gone,
  There's not a star of thine dare stay with thee:
  I'll whistle thy tame fortune after me;
  And whirl fate with me wheresoe'er I fly,
  As winds drive storms before them in the sky.

It was expected by the audience, that the pomp of scenery, and bustle of action, in which such
tremendous heroes were engaged, should in some degree correspond with their lofty sentiments
and superhuman valour. Hence solemn feasts, processions, and battles by sea and land, filled
the theatre. Hence, also, the sudden and violent changes of fortune, by which the hero and
his antagonists are agitated through the whole piece. Fortune has been often compared to the
sea; but in a heroic play, her course resembled an absolute Bay of Biscay, or Race of Portland,
disturbed by an hundred contending currents and eddies, and never continuing a moment in one
steady flow.

That no engine of romantic surprise might be wanting, Dryden contends, that the dramatist,
as he is not confined to the probable in character, so he is not limited by the bounds of nature
in the action, but may let himself loose to visionary objects, and to the representation of
such things as, not depending upon sense, leave free exercise for the imagination. Indeed,
if ghosts, magicians, and demons, might with propriety claim a place anywhere, it must be in
plays which throughout disclaim the common rules of nature, both in the incidents narrated,
and the agents interested.[3]

Lastly, the action of the heroic drama was to be laid, not merely in the higher, but in the
very highest walk of life. No one could with decorum aspire to share the sublimities which
it annexed to character, except those made of the "porcelain clay of the earth," dukes, princes,
kings, and kaisars. The matters agitated must be of moment, proportioned to their characters
and elevated station, the fate of cities and the fall of kingdoms.

That the language, as well as actions and character of the dramatis personae, might be raised
above the vulgar, their sentiments were delivered in rhyme, the richest and most ornate kind
of verse, and the farthest removed from ordinary colloquial diction. Dryden has himself assigned
the following reasons:--"The plot, the characters, the wit, the passions, the descriptions,
are all exalted above the level of common converse, as high as the imagination of the poet
can carry them, with proportion to verisimility. Tragedy, we know, is wont to image to us the
minds and fortunes of noble persons, and to portray these exactly; heroic rhyme is nearest
nature, as being the noblest kind of modern verse.

  Indignatur enim priratis et prope socco
  Dignis carminibus narrari coena Thyestae--

says Horace: and in another place,

  Effutire leves indigna tragaedia versus.--

Blank verse is acknowledged to be too low for a poem, nay more, for a paper of verses; but
if too low for an ordinary sonnet, how much more for tragedy, which is by Aristotle, in the
dispute betwixt the epic poesy and the dramatic, for many reasons he there alleges, ranked
above it."

When we consider these various essentials of a rhyming play, we may perhaps, without impropriety
define it to be a metrical romance of chivalry in form of a drama. The hero is a perfect knight-errant,
invincible in battle, and devoted to his Dulcinea by a love, subtle, metaphysical and abstracted
from all the usual qualities of the instinctive passion; his adventures diversified by splendid
descriptions of bull-feasts, battles, and tournaments; his fortune undergoing the strangest,
most causeless, and most unexpected varieties; his history chequered by the marvellous interference
of ghosts, spectres, and hell itself; his actions effecting the change of empires, and his
co-agents being all lords, and dukes, and noble princes, in order that their rank might, in
some slight degree, correspond to the native exultation of the champion's character.

The reader may smile at this description, and feel some surprise, how compositions, involving
such gross absurdities, were tolerated by an audience having pretence to taste and civilisation
But something may be said for the heroic drama.

Although the manners were preposterous, and the changes of fortune rapid and improbable, yet
the former often attained a sublime, though forced elevation of sentiment; and the latter,
by rapidity of transition and of contrast, served in no slight degree to interest as well as
to surprise the audience. If the spectators were occasionally stunned with bombast, or hurried
and confused by the accumulation of action and intrigue, they escaped the languor of a creeping
dialogue, and the taedium of a barren plot, of which the termination is descried full three
acts before it can be attained. Besides, if these dramas were sometimes extravagant, beautiful
passages often occurred to atone for these sallies of fury. In others, ingenuity makes some
amends for the absence of natural feeling, and the reader's fancy is pleased at the expense
of his taste. In representation, the beauty of the verse, assisted by the enunciation of such
actors as Betterton and Mohun, gilded over the defects of the sense, and afforded a separate
gratification. The splendour of scenery also, in which these plays claimed a peculiar excellence,
afforded a different but certain road to popular favour; and thus this drama, with all its
faults, was very far from wanting the usual requisites for success. But another reason for
its general popularity may be sought in a certain correspondence with the manners of the time.

Although in Charles the Second's reign the age of chivalry was totally at an end, yet the sentiments,
which had ceased to be motives of action, were not so obsolete as to sound totally strange
to the public ear. The French romances of the lower class, such as "Cassandra," "Cleopatra,"
etc., were the favourite pastime of the ladies, and retained all the extravagancies of chivalrous
sentiment, with a double portion of tedious form and metaphysical subtlety. There were occasionally
individuals romantic enough to manage their correspondence and amours on this exploded system.
The admired Mrs. Philips carried on an extensive correspondence with ingenious persons of both
sexes, in which she called herself Orinda, and her husband, Mr. Wogan, by the title of Antenor.
Shadwell, an acute observer of nature, in one of his comedies describes a formal coxcomb of
this class, who courts his mistress out of the "Grand Cyrus," and rejoices in an opportunity
of showing, that his passion could subsist in despite of her scorn.[4] It is probable he had
met with such an original in the course of his observation. The Précieuses of Molière, who
affected a strange mixture of the romantic heroine and modern fine lady, belong to the same
class of oddities, and had their prototypes under the observation of the satirist. But even
those who were above such foppery had been early taught to read and admire the conceits of
Donne, and the metaphysical love-poems of Cowley. They could not object to the quaint and argumentative
dialogues which we have described; for the course of their studies had formed their taste upon
a model equally artificial and fantastic: and thus, what between real excellence, and false
brilliancy, the age had been accustomed not only to admit, but to admire heroic plays.

Perhaps even these favourable circumstances, of taste and opportunity, would hardly have elevated
the rhyming drama so high in the public opinion, had it been supported by less powers than
those of Dryden, or even by equal talents less happily adapted to that style of composition.
His versification flowed so easily, as to lessen the bad effects of rhyme in dialogue; and,
at the same time, abounded with such splendid and sonorous passages, as, in the mouth of a
Betterton, awed into silence even those critics, who could distinguish that the tumid and unnatural
was sometimes substituted for the heroic and sublime. The felicity of his language, the richness
of his illustrations, and the depth of his reflections, often supplied what the scene wanted
in natural passion; and, while enjoying the beauty of his declamation, it was only on cool
reflection that the hearer discovered it had passed upon him for the expression of genuine
feeling. Even then, the pleasure which he actually received from the representation, was accepted
as an apology for the more legitimate delight, which the rules of criticism entitled him to
have expected. To these considerations, the high rank and consequent influence, which Dryden
already held in the fashionable and literary circles of the time, must unquestionably be added.
Nor did he fail to avail himself of his access to the great, whose applause was often cheaply
secured by a perusal of the piece, previous to its being presented to the public; and thus
it afterwards came forth with all the support of a party eminent for rank and literature, already
prepossessed in its favour.[5]

For all these reasons, the heroic drama appears to have gradually risen in reputation, from
the return of Charles till about the year 1670-1, when Dryden's "Conquest of Granada" was received
with such enthusiastic applause. The reputation of the poet himself kept pace with that of
his favourite style of composition; and though posterity has judged more correctly, it may
be questioned, whether "Tyrannic Love" and the "Conquest of Granada" did not place Dryden higher
in public esteem, in 1670, than his "Virgil" and "Fables" in 1700. He was, however, now to
experience the inconveniencies of elevation, and to sustain an attack upon the style of writing
which he had vindicated and practised, as well as to repel the efforts of rivals, who boasted
of outstripping him in the very road to distinction, which he had himself pointed out. The
Duke of Buckingham attacked the system of rhyming plays from the foundation; Leigh , Clifford,
and other scribblers, wrote criticisms  upon those of our author in particular; and Elkanah
Settle was able to form a faction heretical enough to maintain, that he could write such compositions
better than Dryden.

The witty farce of the "Rehearsal" is said to have been meditated by its authors (for it was
the work of several hands) so early as a year or two after the Restoration, when Sir William
Davenant's operas and tragedies were the favourite exhibitions. The ostensible author was the
witty George Villiers, Duke of Buckingham whose dissipation was marked with shades of the darkest
profligacy. He lived an unprincipled statesman, a fickle projector, a wavering friend, a steady
enemy; and died a bankrupt, an outcast, and a proverb. The Duke was unequal to that masculine
satire, which depends for edge and vigour upon the conception and expression of the author.[6]
But he appears to have possessed considerable powers of discerning what was ludicrous, and
enough of subordinate humour to achieve an imitation of colloquial peculiarities, or a parody
upon remarkable passages of poetry,--talents differing as widely from real wit as mimicry does
from true comic action. Besides, Buckingham, as a man of fashion and a courtier, was master
of the persiflage, or jargon, of the day, so essentially useful as the medium of conveying
light humour. He early distinguished himself as an opponent of the rhyming plays. Those of
the Howards, of Davenant, and others, the first which appeared after the Reformation, experienced
his opposition. At the representation of the "United Kingdoms," by the Honourable Edward Howard,
a brother of Sir Robert, the Duke's active share in damning the piece was so far resented by
the author and his friends that he narrowly escaped sanguinary proofs of their displeasure.[7]
This specimen of irritation did not prevent his meditating an attack upon the whole body of
modern dramatists; in which he had the assistance of several wits, who either respected the
ancient drama, or condemned the modern style, or were willing to make common cause with a Duke
against a poet-laureate. These were, the witty author of Hudibras, who, while himself starving,[8]
amused his misery by ridiculing his contemporaries; Sprat, afterwards Bishop of Rochester,
then Buckingham's chaplain; and Martin Clifford, afterwards Master of the Charter-House the
author of a very scurrilous criticism upon some of Dryden's plays, to be mentioned hereafter.
By the joint efforts of this coalition, the "Rehearsal" was produced; a lively piece, which
continues to please, although the plays which it parodies are no longer read or acted, and
although the zest of the personal satire which it contains has evaporated in the lapse of time.
This attack on the reigning taste was long threatened ere it was made; and the precise quarter
to be assailed was varied more than once. Prior says, that Buckingham suspended his attack
till he was certain that the Earl of Dorset would not "rehearse on him again." The principal
character was termed, in the original sketch, Bilboa, a name expressing a traveller and soldier,
under which Sir Robert Howard, or Sir William Davenant, was designated The author of the "Key
to the Rehearsal" affirms, that Sir Robert was the person meant; but Mr. Malone is of opinion,
that Davenant is clearly pointed out by the brown paper patch, introduced in ridicule of that
which Davenant really wore upon his nose. Yet as this circumstance was retained when the character
was assigned to Dryden, the poet of the "Rehearsal" may be considered as in some degree a knight
of the shire, representing all the authors of the day, and uniting in his person their several
absurd peculiarities. The first sketch of the "Rehearsal" was written about 1664, but the representation
was prevented by the theatres being shut upon the plague and fire of London. When they were
again opened, the plays of the Howards, of Stapleton, etc., had fallen into contempt by their
own demerit, and were no longer a well-known or worthy object of ridicule. Perhaps also there
was a difficulty in bringing the piece forward, while, of the persons against whom its satire
was chiefly directed, Davenant was manager of the one theatre, and Dryden a sharer in the other.
The death of Davenant probably removed this difficulty: and the success of Dryden in the heroic
drama; the boldness with which he stood forth, not only as a practiser, but as the champion
of that peculiar style; a certain provoking tone of superiority in his critical essays, which,
even when flowing from conscious merit, is not easily tolerated by contemporaries; and perhaps
his situation as poet-laureate, a post which has been always considered as a fair butt for
the shafts of ridicule,--induced Buckingham to resume the plan of his satire, and to place
Dryden in the situation designed originally for Davenant or Howard. That the public might be
at no loss to assign the character of Bayes to the laureate, his peculiarities of language
were strictly copied. Lacy the actor was instructed by Buckingham himself how to mimic his
voice and manner; and, in performing the part, he wore a dress exactly resembling Dryden's
usual habit. With these ill-natured precautions, the "Rehearsal" was, in 1671, brought forward
for the first time by the King's Company. As, besides the reputation of Dryden, that of many
inferior poets, but greater men, was assailed by the Duke's satire, it would appear that the
play met a stormy reception on the first night of representation The friends of the Earl of
Orrery, of Sir Robert Howard and his brothers, and other men of rank, who had produced heroic
plays, were loud and furious in their opposition. But, as usually happens, the party who laughed,
got the advantage over that which was angry, and finally drew the audience to their side. When
once received, the success of the "Rehearsal" was unbounded. The very popularity of the plays
ridiculed aided the effect of the satire, since everybody had in their recollection the originals
of the passages parodied. Besides the attraction of personal severity upon living and distinguished
literary characters, and the broad humour of the burlesque, the part of Bayes had a claim to
superior praise, as drawn with admirable attention to the foibles of the poetic tribe. His
greedy appetite for applause; his testy repulse of censure or criticism; his inordinate and
overwhelming vanity, not unmixed with a vein of flattery to those who he hopes will gratify
him by returning it in kind; finally, that extreme, anxious, and fidgeting attention to the
minute parts of what even in whole is scarce worthy of any,--are, I fear, but too appropriate
qualities of the "genus vatum"

Almost all Dryden's plays, including those on which he set the highest value, and which he
had produced, with confidence, as models of their kind, were parodied in the "Rehearsal."[9]
He alone contributed more to the farce than all the other poets together. His favourite style
of comic dialogue, which he had declared to consist rather in a quick sharpness of dialogue
than in delineations of humour,[10] is paraphrased in the scene between Tom Thimble and Prince
Prettyman; the lyrics of his astral spirits are cruelly burlesqued in the song of the two lawful
Kings of Brentford, as they descend to repossess their throne; above all, Almanzor, his favourite
hero, is parodied in the magnanimous Drawcansir; and, to conclude, the whole scope of heroic
plays, with their combats, feasts, processions, sudden changes of fortune, embarrassments of
chivalrous love and honour, splendid verse and unnatural rants, are so held up to ridicule,
as usually to fix the resemblance upon some one of his own dramas. The "Wild Gallant," the
"Maiden Queen," and "Tyrannic Love," all furnish parodies as do both parts of the "Conquest
of Granada," which had been frequently acted before the representation of the "Rehearsal,"
though not printed till after. What seems more strange, the play of "Marriage á la Mode" is
also alluded to, although it was neither acted nor printed till 1673, a year after the appearance
of the "Rehearsal". But there being no parody of any particular passage, although the plot
and conduct of the piece is certainly ridiculed, it seems probable, that, as Dryden often showed
his plays in manuscript to those whom he accounted his patrons, the plan of "Marriage à la
Mode" may have transpired in the circles which Buckingham frequented, who may thus have made
it the subject of satire by anticipation.[11]

It is easy to conceive what Dryden must have felt, at beholding his labours and even his person
held up to public derision, on the theatre where he had so often triumphed. But he was too
prudent to show outward signs of resentment; and in conversation allowed, that the farce had
a great many good things in it, though so severe against himself. "Yet I cannot help saying,"
he added, in a well-judged tone of contempt, "that Smith and Johnson are two of the coolest
and most insignificant fellows I ever met with upon the stage."[12] Many years afterwards he
assigned nearly the same reason to the public for not replying to the satire.[13] But though
he veiled his resentment under this mask of indifference at the time, he afterwards avowed
that the exquisite character of Zimri in "Absalom and Achitophel" was laboured with so much
felicitous skill as a requital in kind to the author of the "Rehearsal."[14]

The ridicule cast upon heroic plays by the "Rehearsal" did not prevent their being still exhibited.
They contained many passages of splendid poetry, which continued to delight the audience after
they had laughed at Buckingham's parody. But the charm began to dissolve; and from the time
of that representation, they seem gradually, but perceptibly, to have declined in favour. Accordingly,
Dryden did not trust to his powers of numbers in his next play, but produced the "Marriage
à la Mode," a tragi-comedy or rather a tragedy and comedy, the plots and scenes of which are
intermingled, for they have no natural connection with each other. The state-intrigue bears
evident marks of hurry and inattention; and it is at least possible, that Dryden originally
intended it for the subject of a proper heroic play, but, startled at the effect of Buckingham's
satire, hastily added to it some comic scenes, either lying by him, or composed on purpose.
The higher or tragic plot is not only grossly inartificial and improbable, but its incidents
are so perplexed and obscure, that it would have required much more action to detail them intelligibly.
Even the language has an abridged appearance, and favours the idea, that the tragic intrigue
was to have been extended into a proper heroic play, instead of occupying a spare corner in
a comedy. But to make amends, the comic scenes are executed with spirit, and in a style resembling
those in the "Maiden Queen."[15] They contained much witty and fashionable raillery; and the
character of Melantha is pronounced by Cibber to exhibit the most complete system of female
foppery that could possibly be crowded into the tortured form of a fine lady. It was admirably
acted by Mrs. Montfort, afterwards Mrs. Verbruggen. The piece thus supported was eminently
successful; a fortunate circumstance for the King's Company, who were then in distressful circumstances.
Their house in Drury-lane had been destroyed by fire, after which disaster they were compelled
to occupy the old theatre in Lincoln's Inn Fields, lately deserted by the rival company for
a splendid one in Dorset Gardens. From a prologue which our author furnished, to be spoken
at the opening of this house of refuge, it would seem that even the scenes and properties of
the actors had been furnished by the contributions of the nobility.[16] Perhaps their present
reduced situation was an additional reason with Dryden for turning his attention to comedy,
which required less splendour of exhibition and decoration than the heroic plays.

"Marriage à la Mode" was inscribed to Wilmot, Earl of Rochester, in strains of adulation not
very honourable to the dedicator. But as he expresses his gratitude for Rochester's care, not
only of his reputation but of his fortune; for his solicitude to overcome the fatal modesty
of poets, which leads them to prefer want to importunity; and, finally, for the good effects
of his mediation in all his concerns at court; it may be supposed some recent benefit, perhaps
an active share in procuring the appointment of poet-laureate, had warmed the heart of the
author towards the patron. The dedication was well received, and the compliment handsomely
acknowledged as we learn from a letter from Dryden to Rochester, where he says, that the shame
of being so much overpaid for an ill dedication made him almost repent of his address. But
he had shortly afterwards rather more substantial reasons for regretting his choice of a patron.

The same cause for abstaining from tragic composition still remaining in force, Dryden, in
1672, brought forward a comedy, called "The Assignation, or Love in a Nunnery." The plot was
after the Spanish model. The author seems to have apprehended, and experienced, some opposition
on account of this second name; and although he deprecates, in the epilogue, the idea of its
being a party play, or written to gratify the Puritans with satire at the expense of the Catholics;[17]
yet he complains, in the dedication, of the number of its enemies, who came prepared to damn
it on account of the title. The Duke of York having just made public profession of the Roman
faith, any reflections upon it were doubtless watched with a jealous eye. But, though guiltless
in this respect, the "Assignation" had worse faults. The plot is but indifferently conducted
and was neither enlivened with gay dialogue, nor with striking character: the play, accordingly,
proved unsuccessful in the representation. Yet although, upon reading the "Assignation," we
cannot greatly wonder at this failure, still, considering the plays which succeeded about the
same time, we may be disposed to admit that the weight of a party was thrown into the scale
against its reception. Buckingham, who shortly afterwards published a revised edition of the
"Rehearsal," failed not to ridicule the absurd and coarse trick, by which the enamoured prince
prevents his father from discovering the domino of his mistress, which had been left in his
apartment.[18] And Dryden's rivals and enemies, now a numerous body, hailed with malicious
glee an event which seemed to foretell the decay of his popularity.

The "Assignation" was published in 1673, and inscribed, by Dryden, to his much honoured friend
Sir Charles Sedley. There are some acrimonious passages in this dedication, referring to the
controversies in which the author had been engaged; and, obscure as these have become, it is
the biographer's duty to detail and illustrate them.

It cannot be supposed that the authors of the time saw with indifference Dryden's rapid success,
and the measures which he had taken, by his critical essays, to guide the public attention
and to fix it upon himself and the heroic plays, in which he felt his full superiority. But
no writer of the time could hope to be listened to by the public, if he entered a claim of
personal competition against a poet so celebrated. The defence of the ancient poets afforded
a less presumptuous and more favourable pretext for taking the field, and for assailing Dryden's
writings, and avenging the slight notice he had afforded to his contemporaries, under the colour
of defending the ancients against his criticism. The "Essay of Dramatic Poesy" afforded a pretence
for commencing this sort of warfare. In that piece, Dryden had pointed out the faults of Shakespeare,
Jonson, and Fletcher, with less ceremony than the height of their established reputation appeared
to demand from a young author. But the precedence which he undauntedly claimed for the heroic
drama, and, more generally, the superiority of the plays of Dryden's own age, whether tragic
or comic, over those of the earlier part of the seventeenth century, was asserted, not only
distinctly, but irreverently, in the Epilogue to the "Conquest of Granada:"

  "They who have best succeeded on the stage,
  Have still conformed their genius to their age.
  Thus Jonson did mechanic humour show
  When men were dull, and conversation low.
  Then comedy was faultless, but 'twas coarse:
  Cobb's tankard was a jest, and Otter's horse.
  And, as their comedy, their love was mean;
  Except, by chance, in some one laboured scene,
  Which must atone for an ill-written play,
  They rose, but at their height could seldom stay.
  Fame then was cheap, and the first comer sped;
  And they have kept it since, by being dead.
  But, were they now to write, when critics weigh
  Each line, and every word, throughout a play,
  None of them, no, not Jonson in his height,
  Could pass, without allowing grains for weight.
  Think it not envy, that these truths are told;
  Our poet's not malicious, though he's bold.
  'Tis not to brand them that their faults are shown,
  But by their errors to excuse his own.
  If love and honour now are higher raised,
  'Tis not the poet, but the age is praised.
  Wit's now arrived to a more high degree;
  Our native language more refined and free;
  Our ladies and our men now speak more wit
  In conversation than those poets writ.
  Then, one of these is, consequently, true;
  That what this poet writes comes short of you,
  And imitates you ill (which most he fears),
  Or else his writing is not worse than theirs.
  Yet, though you judge (as sure the critics will),
  That some before him writ with greater skill,
  In this one praise he has their fame surpast,
  To please an age more gallant than the last."

The daring doctrine laid down in these obnoxious lines, our author ventured to maintain in
what he has termed a "Defence of the Epilogue, or an Essay on the Dramatic Poetry of the last
age." It is subjoined to the "Conquest of Granada;" and, as that play was not printed till
after the "Rehearsal," it serves to show how little Dryden's opinions were altered, or his
tone lowered, by the success of that witty satire. It was necessary, he says, either not to
print the bold epilogue, which we have quoted, or to show that he could defend it. He censures
decidedly the antiquated language, irregular plots, and anachronisms of Shakespeare and Fletcher;
but his main strength seems directed against Jonson. From his works he selects several instances
of harsh, inelegant, and even inaccurate diction. In describing manners, he claims for the
modern writers a decided superiority over the poets of the earlier age, when there was less
gallantry, and when the authors were not admitted to the best society. The manners of their
low, or Dutch school of comedy, in which Jonson led the way, by his "Bartholomew Fair," and
similar pieces, are noticed, and censured, as unfit for a polished audience. The characters
in what may be termed genteel comedy are reviewed, and restricted to the Truewit of Jonson's
"Silent Woman," the Mercutio of Shakespeare, and Fletcher's Don John in the "Chances." Even
this last celebrated character, he observes, is better carried on in the modern alteration
of the play, than in Fletcher's original; a singular instance of Dryden's liberality of criticism,
since the alteration of the "Chances" was made by that very Duke of Buckingham, from whom he
had just received a bitter and personal offence. Dryden proceeds to contend, that the living
poets, from the example of a gallant king and sprightly court, have learned, in their comedies,
a tone of light discourse and raillery, in which the solidity of English sense is blended with
the air and gaiety of their French neighbours; in short, that those who call Jonson's the golden
age of poetry, have only this reason, that the audience were then content with acorns, because
they knew not the use of bread. In all this criticism there was much undeniable truth; but
sufficient weight was not given to the excellencies of the old school, while their faults were
ostentatiously and invidiously enumerated. It would seem that Dryden, perhaps from the rigour
of a puritanical education, had not studied the ancient dramatic models in his youth, and had
only begun to read them with attention when it was his object rather to depreciate than to
emulate them. But the time came when he did due homage to their genius.

Meanwhile, this avowed preference of his own period excited the resentment of the older critics,
who had looked up to the era of Shakespeare as the golden age of poetry; and no less that of
the playwrights of his own standing, who pretended to discover that Dryden designed to establish
less the reputation of his age, than of himself individually upon the ruined fame of the ancient
poets. They complained that, as the wild bull in the Vivarambla of Granada,

  "monarch-like he ranged the listed field,
  And some he trampled down, and some he kill'd."

Many, therefore, advancing, under pretence of vindicating the fame of the ancients, gratified
their spleen by attacking that of Dryden, and strove less to combat his criticisms, than to
criticise his productions. We shall have too frequent occasion to observe, that there was,
during the reign of Charles II., a semi-barbarous virulence of controversy, even upon abstract
points of literature, which would be now thought injudicious and unfair, even by the newspaper
advocates of contending factions. A critic of that time never deemed he had so effectually
refuted the reasoning of his adversary, as when he had said something disrespectful of his
talents, person, or moral character. Thus, literary contest was embittered by personal hatred,
and truth was so far from being the object of the combatants that even victory was tasteless
unless obtained by the disgrace and degradation of the antagonist. This reflection may serve
to introduce a short detail of the abusive controversies in which it was Dryden's lot to be
engaged.

One of those who most fiercely attacked our author's system and opinions was Matthew[19] Clifford,
already mentioned as engaged in the "Rehearsal." At what precise time he began his Notes upon
Dryden's Poems, in Four Letters, or how they were originally published, is uncertain. The last
of the letters is dated from the Charter-House 1st July 1672, and is signed with his name:
probably the others were written shortly before. The only edition now known was printed along
with some "Reflections on the Hind and Panther, by another Hand" (Tom Brown), in 1687. If these
letters were not actually printed in 1672, they were probably successively made public by transcripts
handed about in the coffee-houses which was an usual mode of circulating lampoons and pieces
of satire. Although Clifford was esteemed a man of wit and a scholar, his style is rude, coarse,
and ungentlemanlike, and the criticism is chiefly verbal. In the note the reader may peruse
an ample specimen of the kind of wit, or rather banter, employed by this facetious person.[20]
The letters were written successively at different periods; for Clifford in the last complains
that he cannot extort an answer, and therefore seems to conceive that his arguments are unanswerable.

There were several other pamphlets, and fugitive pieces, published against Dryden at the same
time. One of them, entitled "The Censure of the Rota on Mr. Dryden's Conquest of Granada,"
was printed at Oxford in 1673. This was followed by a similar piece, entitled, "A description
of the Academy of Athenian Virtuosi, with a Discourse held there in Vindication of Mr. Dryden's
Conquest of Granada against the Author of the Censure of the Rota." And a third, called "A
Friendly Vindication of Mr. Dryden from the Author of the Censure of the Rota," was printed
at Cambridge. All these appeared previous to the publication of the "Assignation." The first,
as Wood informs us, was written by Richard Leigh, educated at Queen's College, Oxford, where
he entered in 1665, and was probably resident when this piece was there published. He was afterwards
a player in the Duke's Company, but must be carefully distinguished from the celebrated comedian
of the same name. It seems likely that he wrote also the second tract, which is a continuation
of the first. Both are in a frothy, flippant style of raillery, of which the reader will find
a specimen in the note.[21] The Cambridge Vindication seems to have been written by a different
hand, though in the same taste. It is singular in bringing a charge against our author which
has been urged by no other antagonist; for he is there upbraided with exhibiting in his comedies
the persons and follies of living characters.[22]

The friends and admirers of Dryden did not see with indifference these attacks upon his reputation
for he congratulates[23] himself upon having found defenders even among strangers alluding
probably to a tract by Mr. Charles Blount, entitled, "Mr. Dryden Vindicated, in answer to the
Friendly Vindication of Mr. Dryden, with reflections on the Rota." This piece is written with
all the honest enthusiasm of youth in defence of that genius, which has excited its admiration.
In his address to Sedley, Dryden notices these attacks upon him with a supreme degree of contempt[24].
In other respects, the dedication is drawn with the easy indifference of one accustomed to
the best society, towards the authority of those who presumed to judge of modern manners, without
having access to see those of the higher circles. The picture which it draws of the elegance
of the convivial parties of the wits in that gay time has been quoted a few pages higher.

I know not if it be here worth while to mention a pretty warfare between Dryden and Edward
Ravenscroft,[25] an unworthy scribbler, who wrote plays, or rather altered those of Shakespeare,
and imitated those of Molière. This person, whether from a feud which naturally subsisted between
the two rival theatres, or from envy and dislike to Dryden personally, chose, in the Prologue
to the "Citizen turned Gentleman," acted at the Duke's House in 1672, to level some sneers
at the heroic drama, which affected particularly the "Conquest of Granada," then acting with
great applause. Ravenscroft's play, which is a bald translation from the "Bourgeois Gentilhomme"
of Molière, was successful, chiefly owing to the burlesque procession of Turks employed to
dub the Citizen a Mamamouchi, or Paladin. Dryden, with more indignation than the occasion warranted,
retorted, in the Prologue to the "Assignation," by the following attack on Ravenscroft's jargon
and buffoonery:

  "You must have Mamamouchi, such a fop
  As would appear a monster in a shop;
  He'll fill your pit and boxes to the brim,
  Where, ramm'd in crowds, you see yourselves in him.
  Sure there's some spell our poet never knew,
  In Hullibabilah de, and Chu, chu, chu;
  But Marababah sahem most did touch you;
  That is, Oh how we love the Mamamouchi!
  Grimace and habit sent you pleased away;
  You damned the poet, and cried up the play."

About this time, too, the actresses in the King's theatre, to vary the amusements of the house,
represented "Marriage à la Mode" in men's dresses. The Prologue and Epilogue were furnished
by Dryden; and in the latter, mentioning the projected union of the theatres,--

  "all the women most devoutly swear,
  Each would be rather a poor actress here,
  Than to be made a Mamamouchi there."

Ravenscroft, thus satirised, did not fail to exult in the bad success of the "Assignation,"
and celebrated his triumph in some lines of a Prologue to the "Careless Lovers," which was
acted in the vacation succeeding the ill fate of Dryden's play. They are thrown into the note,
that the reader may judge how very unworthy this scribbler was of the slightest notice from
the pen of Dryden.[26]

And with this Te Deum, on the part of Ravenscroft ended a petty controversy, which gives him
his only title to be named in the life of an English classic.

From what has been detailed of these disputes we may learn that, even at this period, the laureate's
wreath was not unmingled with thorns; and that if Dryden still maintained his due ascendancy
over the common band of authors, it was not without being occasionally under the necessity
of descending into the arena against very inferior antagonists.

In the course of these controversies, Dryden was not idle, though he cannot be said to have
been worthily or fortunately employed; his muse being lent to the court, who were at this time
anxious to awake the popular indignation against the Dutch. It is a characteristic of the English
nation, that their habitual dislike against their neighbours is soon and easily blown into
animosity. But, although Dryden chose for his theme the horrid massacre of Amboyna, and fell
to the task with such zeal that he accomplished it in a month, his play was probably of little
service to the cause in which it was written. The story is too disgusting to produce the legitimate
feelings of pity and terror which tragedy should excite: the black-hole of Calcutta would be
as pleasing a subject. The character of the Hollanders is too grossly vicious and detestable
to give the least pleasure. They are neither men, nor even devils; but a sort of lubber fiends,
compounded of cruelty, avarice, and brutal debauchery, like Dutch swabbers possessed by demons.
But of this play the author has himself admitted, that the subject is barren, the persons low,
and the writing not heightened by any laboured scenes: and, without attempting to contradict
this modest description, we may dismiss the tragedy of "Amboyna." It was dedicated to Lord
Clifford of Chudleigh, an active member of the Cabal administration of Charles II.; but who,
as a Catholic, on the test act being passed, resigned his post of lord high treasurer, and
died shortly afterwards. There is great reason to think that this nobleman had essentially
favoured Dryden's views in life. On a former occasion, he had termed Lord Clifford a better
Maecenas than that of Horace;[27] and, in the present dedication, he mentions the numerous
favours received through so many years as forming one continued act of his patron's generosity
and goodness; so that the excess of his gratitude had led the poet to receive those benefits,
as the Jews received their law, with mute wonder, rather than with outward and ceremonious
acclamation. These sentiments of obligation he continued, long after Lord Clifford's death,
to express in terms equally glowing;[28] so that we may safely do this statesman's memory the
justice to record him as an active and discerning patron of Dryden's genius.

In the course of 1673 our author's pen was engaged in a task, which may be safely condemned
as presumptuous, though that pen was Dryden's. It was no other than that of new-modelling the
"Paradise Lost" of Milton into a dramatic poem, called the "State of Innocence, or the Fall
of Man." The coldness with which Milton's mighty epic was received upon the first publication
is almost proverbial. The character of the author, obnoxious for his share in the usurped government;
the turn of the language, so different from that of the age; the seriousness of a subject so
discordant with its lively frivolities--gave to the author's renown the slowness of growth
with the permanency of the oak. Milton's merit, however, had not escaped the eye of Dryden.[29]
He was acquainted with the author, perhaps even before the Restoration; and who can doubt Dryden's
power of feeling the sublimity of the "Paradise Lost," even had he himself not assured us,
in the prefatory essay to his own piece, that he accounts it, "undoubtedly, one of the greatest,
most noble, and most sublime poems, which either this age or nation has produced"? We are,
therefore, to seek for the motive which could have induced him, holding this opinion, "to gild
pure gold, and set a perfume on the violet." Dennis has left a curious record upon this subject:--"Dryden,"
he observes, "in his Preface before the 'State of Innocence,' appears to have been the first,
those gentlemen excepted whose verses are before Milton's poem, who discovered in so public
a manner an extraordinary opinion of Milton's extraordinary merit. And yet Mr. Dryden at that
time knew not half the extent of his excellence, as more than twenty years afterwards he confessed
to me, and is pretty plain from his writing the 'State of Innocence.'" Had he known the full
extent of Milton's excellence, Dennis thought he would not have ventured on this undertaking,
unless he designed to be a foil to him: "but they," he adds, "who knew Mr. Dryden, know very
well, that he was not of a temper to design to be a foil to any one."[30] We are therefore
to conclude, that it was only the hope of excelling his original, admirable as he allowed it
to be, which impelled Dryden upon this unprofitable and abortive labour; and we are to examine
the improvements which Dryden seemed to meditate, or, in other words, the differences between
his taste and that of Milton.

And first we may observe, that the difference in their situations affected their habits of
thinking upon poetical subjects. Milton had retired into solitude, if not into obscurity, relieved
from everything like external agency either influencing his choice of a subject, or his mode
of treating it; and in consequence, instead of looking abroad to consult the opinion of his
age, he appealed only to the judge which heaven had implanted within him, when he was endowed
with severity of judgment, and profusion of genius. But the taste of Dryden was not so independent.
Placed by his very office at the head of what was fashionable in literature, he had to write
for those around him, rather than for posterity; was to support a brilliant reputation in the
eye of the world; and is frequently found boasting of his intimacy with those who led the taste
of the age, and frequently quoting the

  "tamen me
  Cum magnis vixisse, invita falebitur usque
  Invidia."

It followed, that Dryden could not struggle against the tide into which he was launched, and
that, although it might be expected from his talents that he should ameliorate the reigning
taste, or at least carry those compositions which it approved to their utmost pitch of perfection,
it could not be hoped that he should altogether escape being perverted by it, or should soar
so superior to all its prejudices as at once to admit the super-eminent excellence of a poem
which ran counter to these in so many particulars. The versification of Milton, according to
the taste of the times, was ignoble, from its supposed facility. Dryden was, we have seen,
so much possessed with this prejudice, as to pronounce blank verse unfit even for a fugitive
paper of verses.

The want of the dignity of rhyme was therefore, according to his idea, an essential deficiency
in the "Paradise Lost." According to Aubrey, Dryden communicated to Milton his intention of
adding this grace to his poem; to which the venerable bard gave a contemptuous consent, in
these words: "Ay, you may tag my verses if you will." Perhaps few have read so far into the
"State of Innocence" as to discover that Dryden did not use this licence to the uttermost and
that several of the scenes are not tagg'd with rhyme.

Dryden at this period engaged in a research recommended to him by "a noble wit of Scotland,"
as he terms Sir George Mackenzie, the issue of which, in his apprehension, pointed out further
room for improving upon the epic of Milton. This was an inquiry into the "turn of words and
thoughts" requisite in heroic poetry. These "turns," according to the definition and examples
which Dryden has given us, differ from the points of wit, and quirks of epigram, common in
the metaphysical poets, and consist in a happy, and at the same time a natural, recurrence
of the same form of expression, melodiously varied. Having failed in his search after these
beauties in Cowley, the darling of his youth, "I consulted," says Dryden, "a greater genius
(without offence to the manes of that noble author), I mean--Milton; but as he endeavours everywhere
to express Homer, whose age had not arrived to that fineness, I found in him a true sublimity,
lofty thoughts, which were clothed with admirable Grecisms, and ancient words, which he had
been digging from the mines of Chaucer and Spenser, and which, with all their rusticity, had
somewhat of venerable in them. But I found not there neither that for which I looked." This
judgment Addison has proved to be erroneous, by quoting from Milton the most beautiful example
of a turn of words which can be found in English poetry.[31] But Dryden, holding it for just,
conceived, doubtless, that in his "State of Innocence" he might exert his skill successfully,
by supplying the supposed deficiency, and for relieving those "flats of thought" which he complains
of, where Milton, for a hundred lines together, runs on in a "track of scripture;" but which
Dennis more justly ascribes to the humble nature of his subject in those passages. The graces,
also, which Dryden ventured to interweave with the lofty theme of Milton, were rather those
of Ovid than of Virgil, rather turns of verbal expression than of thought. Such is that conceit
which met with censure at the time:

  "Seraph and cherub, careless of their charge,
  And wanton, in full ease now live at large;
  Unguarded leave the passes of the sky,
  And all dissolved in hallelujahs lie."

"I have heard," said a petulant critic, "of anchovies dissolved in sauce; but never of an angel
dissolved in hallelujahs." But this raillery Dryden rebuffs with a quotation from Virgil:

  "Invadunt urbem, somno vinoque sepultam."

It might have been replied, that Virgil's analogy was familiar and simple, and that of Dryden
was far-fetched, and startling by its novelty. The majesty of Milton's verse is strangely degraded
in the following speeches, which precede the rising of Pandaemonium. Some of the couplets are
utterly flat and bald, and, in others, the balance of point and antithesis is substituted for
the simple sublimity of the original:

  Moloch. Changed as we are, we're yet from homage free;
  We have, by hell, at least gained liberty:
  That's worth our fall; thus low though we are driven.
  Better to rule in hell, than serve in heaven.

  Lucifer. There spoke the better half of Lucifer!

  Asmoday. 'Tis fit in frequent senate we confer,
  And then determine how to steer our course;
  To wage new war by fraud, or open force.
  The doom's now past, submission were in vain.

  Mol. And were it not, such baseness I disdain;
  I would not stoop, to purchase all above,
  And should contemn a power, whom prayer could move,
  As one unworthy to have conquered me.

  Beelzebub. Moloch, in that all are resolved, like thee
  The means are unproposed; but 'tis not fit
  Our dark divan in public view should sit;
  Or what we plot against the Thunderer,
  The ignoble crowd of vulgar devils hear.

  Lucif. A golden palace let be raised on high;
  To imitate? No, to outshine the sky!
  All mines are ours, and gold above the rest:
  Let this be done; and quick as 'twas exprest.

I fancy the reader is now nearly satisfied with Dryden's improvements on Milton. Yet some of
his alterations have such peculiar reference to the taste and manners of his age, that I cannot
avoid pointing them out. Eve is somewhat of a coquette even in the state of innocence. She
exclaims:

    "from each tree
  The feathered kind press down to look on me;
  The beasts, with up-cast eyes, forsake their shade,
  And gaze, as if I were to be obeyed.
  Sure, I am somewhat which they wish to be,
  And cannot,--I myself am proud of me."

Upon receiving Adam's addresses, she expresses, rather unreasonably in the circumstances, some
apprehensions of his infidelity; and, upon the whole, she is considerably too knowing for the
primitive state. The same may be said of Adam, whose knowledge in school divinity, and use
of syllogistic argument, Dryden, though he found it in the original, was under no necessity
to have retained.

The "State of Innocence," as it could not be designed for the stage, seems to have been originally
intended as a mere poetical prolusion; for Dryden, who was above affecting such a circumstance,
tells us, that it was only made public, because, in consequence of several hundred copies,
every one gathering new faults, having been dispersed without his knowledge, it became at length
a libel on the author, who was forced to print a correct edition in his own defence. As the
incidents and language were ready composed by Milton, we are not surprised when informed, that
the composition and revision were completed in a single month. The critics having assailed
the poem even before publication, the author has prefixed an "Essay upon Heroic Poetry and
Poetic Licence;" in which he treats chiefly of the use of metaphors, and of the legitimacy
of machinery.

The Dedication of the "State of Innocence," addressed to Mary of Este, Duchess of York, is
a singular specimen of what has been since termed the celestial style of inscription. It is
a strain of flattery in the language of adoration; and the elated station of the princess is
declared so suited to her excellence, that Providence has only done justice to its own works
in placing the most perfect work of heaven where it may be admired by all beholders. Even this
flight is surpassed by the following:--"Tis true, you are above all mortal wishes; no man desires
impossibilities, because they are beyond the reach of nature. To hope to be a god is folly
exalted into madness; but, by the laws of our creation, we are obliged to adore him, and are
permitted to love him too at human distance. 'Tis the nature of perfection to be attractive;
but the excellency of the object refines the nature of the love. It strikes an impression of
awful reverence; 'tis indeed that love which is more properly a zeal than passion. 'Tis the
rapture which anchorites find in prayer, when a beam of the divinity shines upon them; that
which makes them despise all worldly objects; and yet 'tis all but contemplation. They are
seldom visited from above; but a single vision so transports them, that it makes up the happiness
of their lives. Mortality cannot bear it often: it finds them in the eagerness and height of
their devotion; they are speechless for the time that it continues, and prostrate and dead
when it departs." Such eulogy was the taste of the days of Charles, when ladies were deified
in dedications and painted as Venus or Diana upon canvas. In our time, the elegance of the
language would be scarcely held to counterbalance the absurdity of the compliments.

Lee, the dramatic writer, an excellent poet, though unfortunate in his health and circumstances
evinced his friendship for Dryden, rather than his judgment, by prefixing to the "State of
Innocence" a copy of verses, in which he compliments the author with having refined the ore
of Milton. Dryden repaid this favour by an epistle, in which he beautifully apologises for
the extravagancies of his friend's poetry, and consoles him for the censure of those cold judges,
whose blame became praise when they accused the warmth which they were incapable of feeling.[32]

Having thus brought the account of our author's productions down to 1674, from which period
we date a perceptible change in his taste and mode of composition, I have only to add, that
his private situation was probably altered to the worse, by the burning of the King's Theatre,
and the debts contracted in rebuilding it. The value of his share in that company must consequently
have fallen far short of what it was originally. In other respects, he was probably nearly
in the same condition as in 1672. The critics, who assailed his literary reputation, had hitherto
spared his private character; and, excepting Rochester, whose malignity towards Dryden now
began to display itself, he probably had not lost one person whom he had thought worthy to
be called a friend. Lee, who seems first to have distinguished himself about 1672, was probably
then added to the number of his intimates. Milton died shortly before the publication of the
"State of Innocence;" and we may wish in vain to know his opinion of that piece; but if tradition
can be trusted, he said, perhaps on that undertaking, that Dryden was a good rhymer, but no
poet. Blount, who had signalised himself in Dryden's defence, was now added to the number of
his friends. This gentleman dedicated his "Religio Laici" to Dryden in 1683, as his much-honoured
friend; and the poet speaks of him with kindness and respect in 1696, three years after his
unfortunate and violent catastrophe.

Dryden was, however, soon to experience the mutability of the friendship of wits and courtiers.
A period was speedily approaching, when the violence of political faction was to effect a breach
between our author and many of those with whom he was now intimately connected; indeed, he
was already entangled in the quarrels of the great, and sustained a severe personal outrage,
in consequence of a quarrel with which he had little individual concern.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] In "Repartees between Cat and Puss at a caterwauling, in the modern heroic way:"

  "Cat. Forbear, foul ravisher, this rude address;
  Canst thou at once both injure and caress?

  Puss. Thou hast bewitched me with thy powerful charms,
  And I, by drawing blood, would cure my harms.

  C. He that does love would set his heart a tilt,
  Ere one drop of his lady's should be spilt.

  P. Your wounds are but without, and mine within:
  You wound my heart, and I but prick your skin;
  And while your eyes pierce deeper than my claws,
  You blame the effect of which you are the cause.

  C. How could my guiltless eyes your heart invade,
  Had it not first been by your own betrayed?
  Hence 'tis, my greatest crime has only been
  (Not in mine eyes, but yours) in being seen.

  P. I hurt to love, but do not love to hurt.

  C. That's worse than making cruelty a sport.

  P. Pain is the foil of pleasure and delight,
  That sets it off to a more noble height.

  C. He buys his pleasure at a rate too vain,
  That takes it up beforehand of his pain.

  P. Pain is more dear than pleasure when 'tis past.

  C. But grows intolerable if it last," etc.

[2] Life of Lope de Vega, p. 208.

[3] Dryden was severely censured by the critics for his supernatural persons, and ironically
described as the "man, nature seemed to make choice of to enlarge the poet's empire and to
complete those discoveries others had begun to shadow. That Shakespeare and Fletcher (as some
think) erected the pillars of poetry, is a grosse errour; this Zany of Columbus has discovered
a poeticall world of greater extent than the naturall, peopled with Atlantick colonies of notionall
creatures, astrall spirits, ghosts, and idols, more various than ever the Indians worshipt,
and heroes more lawless than their savages."--Censure of the Rota.

[4] His mistress having fallen in love with a disguised barber, a less polished rival exclaims,--

  "Sir Hum. Nay, for my part, madam, if you must love a cudgelled
  barber, and take him for a valiant count, make much of him; I shall
  desist: there are more ladies, heaven be thanked.

  "Trim. Yes, sir, there are more ladies; but if any man affirms
  that my fair Dorinda has an equal, I thus fling down my glove, and do
  demand the combat for her honour.--This is a nice point of honour I
  have hit."--Bury Fair.

[5] The author of the "Friendly Vindication of Mr. Dryden from the Censure of the Rota" (Cambridge,
1673) mentions, "his humble and supplicant addresses to men and ladies of honour, to whom he
presented the most of his plays to be read, and so passing through their families, to comply
with their censures before-hand; confessing ingenuously, that had he ventured his wits upon
the tenter-hooks of Fortune (like other poets who depended more upon the merits of their pens),
he had been more severely entangled in his own lines long ago."--Page 7.

[6] Of this want of talent the reader may find sufficient proof in the extracts from his Grace's
reflections upon "Absalom and Achitophel."

[7] See "Key to the Rehearsal." "Our most noble author, to manifest his just indignation and
hatred of this fulsome new way of writing, used his utmost interest and endeavours to stifle
it at its first appearance on the stage, by engaging all his friends to explode and run down
these plays; especially the 'United Kingdoms,' which had like to have brought his life into danger.

"The author of it being nobly born, of an ancient and numerous family, had many of his relations
and friends in the cock-pit during the acting of it. Some of them perceiving his Grace to head
a party, who were very active in damning the play, by hissing and laughing immoderately at
the strange conduct thereof, there were persons laid wait for him as he came out; but there
being a great tumult and uproar in the house and the passages near it, he escaped; but he was
threatened hard. However, the business was composed in a short time, though by what means I
have not been informed." The trade of criticism was not uniformly safe in these days. In the
Preface to the "Reformation," a beau is only directed to venture to abuse a new play, if he
knows, the author is no fighter.

[8] [Scott has Dryden's authority (in the letter to Hyde already referred to) for this word,
but it is pretty certainly rhetorical. See article on "Butler," by the present writer, in the
Encyclopaedia Britannica, ninth edition.--ED.]

[9] [It may be well to mention that the editions of the "Rehearsal" are very numerous, and
that fresh parodies of fresh plays as they appeared were incorporated in them. Scott does not
seem to have been fully aware of this.--ED.]

[10] Preface to "An Evening's Love."

[11] Mr. Malone inclines to think there is no allusion to "Marriage à la Mode" in the "Rehearsal."
But surely the whimsical distress of Prince Prettyman, "sometimes a fisher's son, sometimes
a prince," is precisely that of Leonidas, who is first introduced as the son of a shepherd;
secondly, discovered to be the son of an unlawful king called Polydamas; thirdly, proved anew
to be the son of the shepherd, and finally proved to be the son of neither of them, but of
the lawful king, Theogenes. Besides, the author of the "Key to the Rehearsal" points out a
parallel between the revolution of state in the farce, and that by which Leonidas, after being
carried off to execution, on a sudden snatches a sword from one of the guards, proclaims himself
rightful king, and, without more ceremony, deposes the powerful and jealous usurper, who had
sentenced him to death.

[12] Spence's "Anecdotes," quoted by Mr. Malone, vol. i. p. 106.

[13] "I answered not the 'Rehearsal,' because I knew the author sat to himself when he drew
the picture, and was the very Bayes of his own farce; because also I knew, that my betters
were more concerned than I was in that satire; and, lastly, because Mr. Smith and Mr. Johnson,
the main pillars of it, were two such languishing gentlemen in their conversation, that I could
liken them to nothing but to their own relations, those noble characters of men of wit and
pleasure about the town."--Dedication to Juvenal.

[14] The pains which Dryden bestowed on the character of Zimri, and the esteem in which he
held it, is evident from his quoting it as the master-piece of his own satire. If I had railed,
I might have suffered for it justly; but I managed my own work more happily, perhaps more dexterously.
It succeeded as I wished; the jest went round, and he was laughed at in his turn who began
the frolic."

[15] In one of Cibber's moods of alteration, he combined the comic scenes of these two plays
into a comedy entitled, "The Comical Lovers."

[16]
  "You are changed too, and your pretence to see
  Is but a nobler name for charity;
  Your own provisions furnish out our feasts,
  While you, the founders, make yourselves the guests."--Vol. x.

[17]
  "Some have expected, from our bills to-day,
  To find a satire in our poet's ploy.
  The zealous route from Coleman street did run.
  To see the story of the Friar and Nun;
  Or tales yet more ridiculous to hear,
  Vouched by their vicar often pounds a-year,--
  Nuns who did against temptation pray,
  And discipline laid on the pleasant way:
  Or that, to please the malice of the town,
  Our poet should in some close cell have shown
  Some sister, playing at content alone.
  This they did hope; the other side did fear;
  And both, you see, alike are cozened here."

[18]
  "Bayes. I remember once, in a play of mine, I set off a scene,
  i'gad, beyond expectation, only with a petticoat and the belly-ache.

  Smith. Pray, how was that, sir?

  Bayes. Why, sir, I contrived a petticoat to be brought in upon
  a chair (nobody knew how), into a prince's chamber, whose father was
  now to see it, that came in by chance.

  Johns. God's-my-life, that was a notable contrivance indeed!

  Smith. Ay, but, Mr. Bayes, how could you contrive the
  belly-ache?

  Bayes. The easiest i' the world, i'gad: I'll tell you how; I
  made the prince sit down upon the petticoat, no more than so, and
  pretended to his father that he had just then got the belly-ache;
  whereupon his father went out to call a physician, and his man ran
  away with the petticoat."--Rehearsal.

[19] Not Matthew, but Martin, as it is correctly printed before.--Ed.

[20] "To begin with your character of Almanzor, which you avow to have taken from the Achilles
in Homer; pray hear what Famianus Strada says of such talkers as Mr. Dryden: Ridere soleo,
cum video homines ab Homeri virtibus strenue declinates, si quid vero irrepsi vitii, id avide
arripientes. But I might have spared this quotation, and you your avowing; for this character
might as well have been borrowed from some of the stalls in Bedlam, or any of your own hair-brained
cox-combs which you call heroes, and persons of honour. I remember just such another fuming
Achilles in Shakespeare, one ancient Pistol, whom he avows to be a man of so fiery a temper,
and so impatient of an injury, even from Sir John Falstaff his captain, and a knight, that
he not only disobeyed his commands about carrying a letter to Mrs. Page, but returned him an
answer as full of contumely, and in as opprobrious terms, as he could imagine:

  'Let vultures gripe thy guts, for gourd and Fullam holds,
  And high and low beguiles the rich and poor.
  Tester I'll have in pouch, when thou shalt lack,
  Base Phrygian Turk,' etc.

"Let's see e'er an Abencerrago fly a higher pitch. Take him at another turn, quarrelling with
corporal Nym and old Zegri: The difference arose about mine hostess Quickly (for I would not
give a rush for a man unless he be particular in matters of this moment); they both aimed at
her body, but Abencerrago Pistol defies his rival in these words:

  'Fetch from the powdering-tub of infamy
  That lazar-kite of Cressid's kind,
  Doll Tearsheet, she by name, and her espouse:
  I have, and I will hold,
  The quondam Quickly for the only she.
  And pauca.'

There's enough. Does not quotation sound as well as I[20a]?

"But the four sons of Aminon, the three bold Beachams, the four London Prentices, Tamerlain,
the Scythian Shepherd, Muleasses, Amurath, and Bajazet, or any raging Turk at the Red-bull
and Fortune, might as well have been urged by you as a pattern of your Almanzor, as the Achilles
in Homer; but then our laureate had not passed for so learned a man as he desires his unlearned
admirers should esteem him.

"But I am strangely mistaken, if I have not seen this very Almanzor of your's in some disguise
about this town, and passing under another name. Prithee tell me true, was not this huff-cap
once the Indian Emperor, and, at another time, did not he call himself Maximme?

[20a] [There is no I in the original where Clifford quotes:

  [Greek: Oinobares, kunos ommat echon kradiaen d elaphoio.
  Daemoboros basileus.]

I owe my copy of this curious monument of belated spite to the kindness of Mr. Austin Dobson.--ED.]

[21] "Amongst several other late exercises of the Athenian virtuosi in the Coffee-academy,
instituted by Apollo for the advancement of Gazette Philosophy, Mercury's, Diurnalli, etc.,
this day was wholly taken up in the examination of the 'Conquest of Granada.' A gentleman on
the reading of the First Part, and there in the description of the bull-baiting, said, that
Almanzor's playing at the bull was according to the standard of the Greek heroes, who, as Mr.
Dryden had learnedly observed (Essay of Dramatic Poesy), were great beef-eaters. And why might
not Almanzor as well as Ajax, or Don Quixote, worry mutton, or take a bull by the throat, since
the author had elsewhere explained himself, by telling us the heroes were more noble beasts
of prey, in his Epistle to his 'Conquest of Granada,' distinguishing them into wild and tame;
and in his play we have Almanzor shaking his chains, and frighting his keeper, broke loose,
and tearing those that would reclaim his rage. To this he added, that his bulls excelled other
heroes, as far as his own heroes surpassed his gods; that the champion bull was divested of
flesh and blood, and made immortal by the poet, and bellowed after death; that the fantastic
bull seemed fiercer than the true, and the dead bellowings in verse were louder than the living;
concluding with a wish, that Mr. Dryden had the good luck to have varied that old verse quoted
in his dramatic essay:

  'Atque Ursum, el Pugiles media inter carmina poscunt
  Tauros, et Pugiles pruna inter carmina posco;'

and prefixed it to the front of his play, instead of

  'Major rerum mihi nascitur ordo,
  Majus ojius moveo.'"

--Censure of the Rota, p. 1.

[22] "But however, if he were taken for no good comic poet, or satirist, he had found a way
of much easier licence (though more remarkable in the sense of some), which was, not only to
libel men's persons, but to represent them on the stage too. That to this purpose he made his
observations of men, their words, and actions, with so little disguise, that many beheld themselves
acted for their half-crown; yet, after all, was unwilling to believe, that this was not both
good comedy, and no less good manners."--Friendly Vindication of Mr. Dryden, p. 8.

[23]  Dedication to the "Assignation."

[24] Dryden either confines himself to two pamphlets, or, more probably, speaks of the three
as written by only two authors. Leigh is, I presume, the contemptible pedant, and the Sir Fastidious
Brisk of Oxford. The Cambridge author, who imitated his style, is the Fungoso of the Dedication:--"As
for the errors they pretend to find in me, I could easily show them that the greatest part
of them are beauties; and for the rest, I could recriminate upon the best poets of our nation,
if I could resolve to accuse another of little faults, whom at the same time I admire for greater
excellencies. But I have neither concernment enough upon me to write any thing in my own defence,
neither will I gratify the ambition of two wretched scribblers, who desire nothing more than
to be answered. I have not wanted friends, even amongst strangers, who have defended me more
strongly than my contemptible pedant could attack me; for the other, he is only like Fungoso
in the play, who follows the fashion at a distance, and adores the Fastidious Brisk of Oxford.
You can bear me witness, that I have not consideration enough for either of them to be angry:
let Mævius and Bavius admire each other; I wish to be hated by them and their fellows, by the
same reason for which I desire to be loved by you."--Dedication to the Assignation, vol. iv.

[25] A student of law in the Temple, and author of that notable alteration of "Titus Andronicus"
mentioned in the commentaries on Shakespeare. Besides the "Citizen turned Gentleman," he wrote
the "Careless Lovers," "Scaramouch, a Philosopher," the "Wrangling Lovers," "Edgar and Alfreda,"
the "English Lawyer," the "London Cuckolds," distinguished by Cibber as the grossest play that
ever succeeded, "Dame Dobson," the said alteration of "Titus Andronicus," the "Canterbury Guests,"
and the "Italian Husband,"--in all twelve plays, not one of which has the least merit.

[26]
  "An author did, to please you, let his wit run,
  Of late, much on a serving-man and cittern;
  And yet, you would not like the serenade,--
  Nay, and you damned his nuns in masquerade;
  You did his Spanish sing-song too abhor;
  Ah! que locura con tanto rigor!
  In fine, the whole by you so much was blamed,
  To act their parts, the players were ashamed.
  Ah, how severe your malice was that day!
  To damn, at once, the poet and his play:
  But why was your rage just at that time shown,
  When what the author writ was all his own?
  Till then, he borrowed from romance, and did translate;
  And those plays found a mere indulgent fate."

[27] "For my own part, I, who am the least among the poets, have yet the fortune to be honoured
with the best patron, and the best friend; for (to omit some great persons of our court, to
whom I am many ways obliged, and who have taken care of me during the exigencies of a war.)
I have found a better Maecenas in the person of my Lord Treasurer Clifford, and a more elegant
Tibullus in that of Sir Charles Sedley."-- Dedication to the Assignation.

[28] In his Dedication of the Pastorals of Virgil to Hugh Lord Clifford, he says: "I have no
reason to complain of fortune, since, in the midst of that abundance, I could not have chosen
better than the worthy son of so illustrious a father. He was the patron of my manhood, when
I flourished in the opinion of the world, though with small advantage to my fortune, till he
awakened the remembrance of my royal master. He was that Pollio, or that Varus, who introduced
me to Augustus."

[29] The elder Richardson has told a story, that Lord Buckhurst, afterwards Earl of Dorset,
was the first who introduced the "Paradise Lost," then lying like waste paper in the bookseller's
hands, to the notice of Dryden. But this tradition has been justly exploded by Mr. Malone,
Life of Dryden, vol. i. p. 114. Indeed it is by no means likely that Dryden could be a stranger
to the very existence of a large poem, written by a man of such political as well as literary
eminence, even if he had not happened, as was the case, to be personally known to the author.
[The various legends as to Dryden and "Paradise Lost," Dorset and "Paradise Lost," etc., are
well handled by Professor Masson, Life of Milton, vol. vi. pp. 628-635.--ED.]

[30] Dennis's Letters, quoted by Malone.

[32] See this Epistle. It was prefixed to "Alexander the Great;" a play, the merits and faults
of which are both in extreme.

"The State of Innocence" was published in 1674, and "Aureng-Zebe," Dryden's next tragedy, appeared
in 1675. In the interval, he informs us, his ardour for rhyming plays had considerably abated.
The course of study which he imposed on himself doubtless led him to this conclusion. But it
is also possible, that he found the peculiar facilities of that drama had excited the emulation
of very inferior poets, who, by dint of show, rant, and clamorous hexameters, were likely to
divide with him the public favour. Before proceeding, therefore, to state the gradual alteration
in Dryden's own taste, we must perform the task of detailing the literary quarrels in which
he was at this period engaged. The chief of his rivals was Elkanah Settle, a person afterwards
utterly contemptible; but who, first by the strength of a party at court, and afterwards by
a faction in the state, was, for a time, buoyed up in opposition to Dryden. It is impossible
to detail the progress of the contest for public favour between these two ill-matched rivals,
without noticing at the same time Dryden's quarrel with Rochester, who appears to have played
off Settle in opposition to him, as absolutely, and nearly as successfully, as Settle ever
played off the literary [literal?] puppets, for which, in the ebb of his fortune, he wrote dramas.

In the year 1673, Dryden and Rochester were on such friendly terms, that our poet inscribed
to his lordship his favourite play of "Marriage à la Mode;" not without acknowledgment of the
deepest gratitude for favours done to his fortune and reputation. The dedication, we have seen,
was so favourably accepted by Rochester, that the reception called forth a second tribute of
thanks from the poet to the patron. But at this point, the interchange of kindness and of civility
received a sudden and irrecoverable check. This was partly owing to Rochester's fickle and
jealous temper, which induced him alternately to raise and depress the men of parts whom he
loved to patronise; so that no one should ever become independent of his favour, or so rooted
in the public opinion as to be beyond the reach of his satire; but it may also in part be attributed
to Dryden's attachment to Sheffield, Earl of Mulgrave, afterwards Duke of Buckingham, then
Rochester's rival in wit and court-favour, and from whom he had sustained a deadly affront,
on an occasion, which, as the remote cause of a curious incident in Dryden's life, I have elsewhere
detailed in the words of Sheffield himself. Rochester, who was branded as a coward in consequence
of this transaction, must be reasonably supposed to entertain a sincere hatred against Mulgrave;
with whom he had once lived on such friendly terms as to inscribe to him an Epistle on their
mutual poems. But, as his nerves had proved unequal to a personal conflict with his brother
peer, his malice prompted the discharge of his spleen upon those men of literature whom his
antagonist cherished and patronised. Among these Dryden held a distinguished situation; for
about 1675 he was, as we shall presently see, sufficiently in Sheffield's confidence to correct
and revise that nobleman's poetry;[1] and in 1676 dedicated to him the tragedy of "Aureng-Zebe,"
as one who enjoyed not only his favour, but his love and conversation. Thus Dryden was obnoxious
to Rochester, both as holding a station among the authors of the period, grievous to the vanity
of one who aimed, by a levelling and dividing system, to be the tyrant, or at least the dictator,
of wit; and also as the friend, and even the confidant, of Mulgrave, by whom the witty profligate
had been baffled and humiliated. Dryden was therefore to be lowered in the public opinion;
and for this purpose, Rochester made use of Elkanah Settle, whom, though he gratified his malice
by placing him in opposition to Dryden, he must, in his heart, have thoroughly despised.[2]

This playwright, whom the jealous spleen of a favourite courtier, and the misjudging taste
of a promiscuous audience, placed for some time in so high a station, came into notice in 1671,
on the representation of his first play, "Cambyses, King of Persia," which was played six nights
successively. This run of public favour gave Rochester some pretence to bring Settle to the
notice of the king; and, through the efforts of this mischievous wit, joined to the natural
disposition of the people to be carried by show, rant, and tumult, Settle's second play, "The
Empress of Morocco," was acted with unanimous and overpowering applause for a month together.
To add to Dryden's mortification, Rochester had interest enough to have this tragedy of one
whom he had elevated into the rank of his rival, first acted at Whitehall by the lords and
ladies of the court; an honour which had never been paid to any of Dryden's compositions, however
more justly entitled to it, both from intrinsic merit, and by the author's situation as poet-laureate.
Rochester contributed a prologue upon this brilliant occasion to add still more grace to Settle's
triumph; but what seems yet more extraordinary, and has, I think, been unnoticed in all accounts
of the controversy, Mulgrave,[3] Rochester's rival and the friend of Dryden, did the same homage
to "The Empress of Morocco." From the king's private theatre, "The Empress of Morocco" was
transferred, in all its honours, to the public stage in Dorset Gardens, and received with applause
corresponding to the expectation excited by its favour at Whitehall. While the court and city
were thus worshipping the idol which Rochester had set up, it could hardly be expected of poor
Settle, that he should be first to discern his own want of desert. On the contrary, he grew
presumptuous on success; and when he printed his performance, the dedication to the Earl of
Norwich was directly levelled against the poet-laureate who termed it the "most arrogant, calumniatory,
ill-mannered, and senseless preface he ever saw."[4] And, to add gall to bitterness, the bookseller
thought "The Empress of Morocco" worthy of being decorated with engravings, and sold at the
advanced price of two shillings; being the first drama advanced to such honourable distinction.[5]
Moreover, the play is ostentatiously stated in the title to be written by Elkanah Settle, Servant
to His Majesty;[6] an addition which the laureate had assumed with greater propriety.

If we are asked the merit of a performance which made such an impression at the time, we may
borrow an expression applied to a certain orator,[7] and say, that "The Empress of Morocco"
must have acted to the tune of a good heroic play. It had all the outward and visible requisites
of splendid scenery, prisons, palaces, fleets, combats of desperate duration and uncertain
issue,[8] assassinations, a dancing tree, a rainbow, a shower of hail, a criminal executed,[9]
and hell itself opening upon the stage. The rhyming dialogue too, in which the play was written,
had an imperative and tyrannical sound; and to a foreigner, ignorant of the language, might
have appeared as magnificent as that of Dryden. But it must raise our admiration, that the
witty court of Charles could patiently listen to a "tale told by an idiot, full of noise and
fury, signifying nothing," and give it a preference over the poetry of Dryden. The following
description of a hail-storm will vindicate our wonder:

  "This morning, as our eyes we upward cast,
  The desert regions of the air lay waste.
  But straight, as if it had some penance bore,
  A mourning garb of thick black clouds it wore.
  But on the sudden,
  Some aery demon changed its form, and now
  That which looked black above looked white below;
  The clouds dishevelled from their crusted locks,
  Something like gems coined out of crystal rocks.
  The ground was with this strange bright issue spread,
  As if heaven in affront to nature had
  Designed some new-found tillage of its own,
  And on the earth these unknown seeds had sown.
  Of these I reached a grain, which to my sense
  Appeared as cool as virgin-innocence;
  And like that too (which chiefly I admired),
  Its ravished whiteness with a touch expired.
  At the approach of heat, this candid rain
  Dissolved to its first element again.

  Muly-H. Though showers of hail Morocco never see,
  Dull priest, what does all this portend to me?

  Ham. It does portend--

  Muly. What?

  Ham. That the fates design--

  Muly. To tire me with impertinence like thine."

Such were the strains once preferred to the magnificent verses of Dryden; whose very worst
bombast is sublimity compared to them. To prove which, the reader need only peruse the Indian's
account of the Spanish fleet in the "Indian Emperor," to which the above lines are a parallel;
each being the description of an object familiar to the audience, but new to the describer.
The poet felt the disgraceful preference more deeply than was altogether becoming; but he had
levelled his powers, says Johnson, when he levelled his desires to those of Settle, and placed
his happiness in the claps of multitudes. The moral may be carried yet further; for had not
Dryden stooped to call to the aid of his poetry the auxiliaries of scenery, gilded truncheons,
and verse of more noise than meaning, it is impossible his plays could have been drawn into
comparison with those of Settle. But the meretricious ornaments which he himself had introduced
were within the reach of the meanest capacity; and, having been among the first to debauch
the taste of the public, it was retributive justice that he should experience their inconstancy.
Indeed Dryden seems himself to admit, that the principal difference between his heroic plays
and "The Empress of Morocco," was, that the former were good sense, that looked like nonsense,
and the latter nonsense, which yet looked very like sense. A nice distinction, and which argued
some regret at having opened the way to such a rival.

The feelings of contempt ought to have suppressed those of anger; but Dryden, who professedly
lived to please his own age, had not temper to wait till time should do him justice. Angry
he was; and unfortunately he determined to shew the world that he did well in being so. With
this view, in conjunction with Shadwell and Crowne, two brother-dramatists, equally jealous
of Settle's success, he composed a pamphlet, entitled "Remarks upon the Empress of Morocco."
This piece is written in the same tone of boisterous and vulgar raillery with which Clifford
and Leigh had assailed Dryden himself; and little resembles our poet's general style of controversy.

Settle, nothing dismayed with this vehement attack, manfully retorted the abuse which had been
thrown upon him, and answered the insulting clamour of his three antagonists with clamorous
insult.[10] It was obvious that the weaker poet must be the winner by this contest in abuse;
and Dryden gained no more by his dispute with Settle, than a well-dressed man who should condescend
to wrestle with a chimney-sweeper. The feud between them was carried no further, until, after
the publication of "Absalom and Achitophel," party animosity added spurs to literary rivalry.

We must now return to Rochester, who, observing Settle's rise to his unmerited elevation in
the public opinion, became as anxious to lower his presumption as he had formerly been to diminish
the reputation of Dryden. With this view, that tyrannical person of honour availed himself
of his credit to recommend Crowne to write the masque of "Calisto," which was acted by the
lords and ladies of the court of Charles in 1675. Nothing could be more galling towards Dryden,
a part of whose duty as poet-laureate was to compose the pieces designed for such occasions.
Crowne, though he was a tolerable comic writer,[11] had no turn whatever for tragedy, or indeed
for poetry of any kind. But the splendour of the scenery and dresses, the quality of the performers,
selected from the first nobility, and the favour of the sovereign, gave "Calisto" a run of
nearly thirty nights. Dryden, though mortified, tendered his services in the shape of an epilogue,
to be spoken by Lady Henrietta Maria Wentworth.[12] But the influence of his enemy, Rochester,
was still predominant, and the epilogue of the laureate was rejected.[13]

The author of "Calisto" also lost his credit with Rochester, so soon as he became generally
popular; and shortly after the representation of that piece, its fickle patron seems to have
recommended to the royal protection, a rival more formidable to Dryden than either Settle or
"starch Johnny Crowne."[14] This was no other than Otway, whose "Don Carlos" appeared in 1676,
and was hailed as one of the best heroic plays which had been written. The author avows in
his preface the obligations he owed to Rochester, who had recommended him to the king and the
duke, to whose favour he owed his good success, and on whose indulgence he reckoned as insuring
that of his next attempt.[15] These effusions of gratitude did not, as Mr. Malone observes,
withhold Rochester, shortly after, from lampooning Otway, with circumstances of gross insult,
in the "Session of the Poets."[16] In the same preface, Otway, in very intelligible language,
bade defiance to Dryden whom he charges with having spoken slightly of his play.[17] But although
Dryden did not admire the general structure of Otway's poetry, he is said, even at this time,
to have borne witness to his power of moving the passions; an acknowledgment which he long
afterwards solemnly repeated. Thus Otway, like many others, mistook the character of a pretended
friend, and did injustice to that of a liberal rival. Dryden and he indeed never appear to
have been personal friends, even when they both wrote in the Tory interest. It was probably
about this time that Otway challenged Settle, whose courage appears to have failed him upon
the occasion.

Rochester was not content with exciting rivals against Dryden in the public opinion, but assailed
him personally in an imitation of Horace, which he quaintly entitled, "An Allusion to the Tenth
Satire." It came out anonymously about 1678, but the town was at no loss to guess that Rochester
was the patron or author. Much of the satire was bestowed on Dryden, whom Rochester for the
first time distinguishes by a ridiculous nickname, which was afterwards echoed by imitating
dunces in all their lampoons. The lines are more cutting, because mingled with as much praise
as the writer probably thought necessary to gain the credit of a candid critic.[18] Dryden,
on his part, did not view with indifference these repeated direct and indirect attacks on his
literary reputation by Rochester. In the preface to "All for Love," published in 1678, he gives
a severe rebuke to those men of rank, who, having acquired the credit of wit, either by virtue
of their quality, or by common fame, and finding themselves possessed of some smattering of
Latin, become ambitious to distinguish themselves by their poetry from the herd of gentlemen.
Thus the case is hard with writers: if they succeed not, they must starve; and if they do,
some malicious satire is prepared to level them, for daring to please without their leave.
But while they are so eager to destroy the fame of others, their ambition is manifest in their
concernment; some poem of their own is to be produced, and the slaves are to be laid flat with
their faces on the ground, that the monarch may appear in the greater majesty." This general
censure of the persons of wit and honour about town, is fixed on Rochester in particular not
only by the marked allusion in the last sentence, to the despotic tyranny which he claimed
over the authors of his time, but also by a direct attack upon such imitators of Horace, who
make doggrel of his Latin, misapply his censures, and often contradict their own. It is remarkable,
however, that he ascribes this imitation rather to some zany of the great, than to one of their
number; and seems to have thought Rochester rather the patron than the author.

At the expense of anticipating the order of events, and that we may bring Dryden's dispute
with Rochester to a conclusion, we must recall to the reader's recollection our author's friendship
with Mulgrave. This appears to have been so intimate, that, in 1675, that nobleman intrusted
him with the task of revising his "Essay upon Satire:" a poem which contained dishonourable
mention of many courtiers of the time, and was particularly severe on Sir Car Scrope and Rochester.
The last of these is taxed with cowardice, and a thousand odious and mean vices; upbraided
with the grossness and scurrility of his writings, and with the infamous profligacy of his
life.[19] The versification of the poem is as flat and inharmonious, as the plan is careless
and ill-arranged; and though the imputation was to cost Dryden dear, I cannot think that any
part of the "Essay on Satire" received additions from his pen. Probably he might contribute
a few hints for revision; but the author of "Absalom and Achitophel" could never completely
disguise the powers which were shortly to produce that brilliant satire. Dryden's verses must
have shone among Mulgrave's as gold beside copper. The whole Essay is a mere stagnant level,
no one part of it so far rising above the rest as to bespeak the work of a superior hand. The
thoughts, even when conceived with some spirit, are clumsily and unhappily brought out; a fault
never to be traced in the beautiful language of Dryden, whose powers of expression were at
least equal to his force of conception. Besides, as Mr. Malone has observed, he had now brought
to the highest excellence his system of versification; and is it possible he could neglect
it so far as to write the rugged lines in the note, where all manner of elliptical barbarisms
are resorted to, for squeezing the words into a measure "lame and o'erburdened, and screaming
its wretchedness"? The "Essay on Satire" was finally subjected by the noble author to the criticism
of Pope, who, less scrupulous than Dryden, appears to have made large improvements; but after
having undergone the revision of two of the first names in English poetry, it continues to
be a very indifferent performance.

In another point of view, it seems inconsistent with Dryden's situation to suppose he had any
active share in the "Essay on Satire." The character of Charles is treated with great severity,
as well as those of the Duchesses of Portsmouth and Cleveland, the royal mistresses. This was
quite consistent with Mulgrave's disposition, who was at this time discontented with the ministry;
but certainly would not have beseemed Dryden, who held an office at court. Sedley also, with
whom Dryden always seems to have lived on friendly terms, is harshly treated in the "Essay
on Satire." It may be owned, however, that these reasons were not held powerful at the time,
since they must, in that case, have saved Dryden from the inconvenient suspicion which, we
will presently see, attached to him. The public were accustomed to see the friendship of wits
end in mutual satire; and the good-natured Charles was so generally the subject of the ridicule
which he loved, that no one seems to have thought there was improbability in a libel being
composed on him by his own laureate.

The "Essay on Satire," though written, as appears from the title-page of the last edition,
in 1675, was not made public until 1679, when several copies were handed about in manuscript.
Rochester sends one of these to his friend Henry Saville, on the 21st of November 1679, with
this observation:--"I have sent you herewith a libel, in which my own share is not the least.
The king, having perused it, is no way dissatisfied with his. The author is apparently Mr.
Dr[yden], his patron, Lord M[ulgrave,] having a panegyric in the midst." From hence it is evident,
that Dryden obtained the reputation of being the author; in consequence of which, Rochester
meditated the base and cowardly revenge which he afterwards executed; and he thus coolly expressed
his intention in another of his letters:--"You write me word, that I'm out of favour with a
certain poet, whom I have admired for the disproportion of him and his attributes. He is a
rarity which I cannot but be fond of, as one would be of a hog that could fiddle, or a singing
owl. If he falls on me at the blunt, which is his very good weapon in wit, I will forgive him
if you please; and leave the repartee to black Will with a cudgel."

In pursuance of this infamous resolution, Dryden, upon the night of the 18th December 1679,
was waylaid by hired ruffians, and severely beaten, as he passed through Rose-street, Covent-garden
returning from Will's Coffee-house to his own house in Gerrard-street. A reward of £50 was
in vain offered, in the London Gazette and other newspapers, for the discovery of the perpetrators
of this outrage.[20] The town was, however, at no loss to pitch upon Rochester as the employer
of the bravoes, with whom the public suspicion joined the Duchess of Portsmouth, equally concerned
in the supposed affront thus avenged. In our time, were a nobleman to have recourse to hired
bravoes to avenge his personal quarrel against any one, more especially a person holding the
rank of a gentleman, he might lay his account with being hunted out of society. But in the
age of Charles, the ancient high and chivalrous sense of honour was esteemed Quixotic, and
the civil war had left traces of ferocity in the manners and sentiments of the people. Rencounters,
where the assailants took all advantages of number and weapons, were as frequent, and held
as honourable, as regular duels. Some of these approached closely to assassination; as in the
famous case of Sir John Coventry, who was waylaid, and had his nose slit by some young men
of high rank, for a reflection upon the king's theatrical amours. This occasioned the famous
statute against maiming and wounding, called the Coventry Act; an Act highly necessary, since
so far did our ancestors' ideas of manly forbearance differ from ours, that Killigrew introduces
the hero of one of his comedies, a cavalier, and the fine gentleman of the piece, lying in
wait for, and slashing the face of a poor courtezan, who had cheated him.[21] It will certainly
be admitted, that a man, surprised in the dark and beaten by ruffians, loses no honour by such
a misfortune. But, if Dryden had received the same discipline from Rochester's own hand without
resenting it, his drubbing could not have been more frequently made a matter of reproach to
him;--a sign surely of the penury of subjects for satire in his life and character, since an
accident, which might have happened to the greatest hero who ever lived, was resorted to as
an imputation on his honour. The Rose-alley ambuscade became almost proverbial;[22] and even
Mulgrave, the real author of the satire, and upon whose shoulders the blows ought in justice
to have descended, mentions the circumstance in his "Art of Poetry;" with a cold and self-sufficient
complacent sneer:

  "Though praised and punished for another's rhymes,
  His own deserve as great applause sometimes."

To which is added in a note, "A libel for which he was both applauded and wounded, though entirely
ignorant of the whole matter." This flat and conceited couplet, and note, the noble author
judged it proper to omit in the corrected edition of his poem. Otway alone, no longer the friend
of Rochester, and perhaps no longer the enemy of Dryden, has spoken of the author of this dastardly
outrage with the contempt his cowardly malice deserved:

  "Poets in honour of the truth should write,
  With the same spirit brave men for it fight;
  And though against him causeless hatreds rise,
  And daily where he goes, of late, he spies
  The scowls of sullen and revengeful eyes;
  'Tis what he knows with much contempt to bear,
  And serves a cause too good to let him fear:
  He fears no poison from incensed drab,
  No ruffian's five-foot sword, nor rascal's stab;
  Nor any other snares of mischief laid,
  Not a Rose-alley cudgel ambuscade;
  From any private cause where malice reigns,
  Or general pique all blockheads have to brains."

It does not appear that Dryden ever thought it worth his while to take revenge on Rochester;
and the only allusion to him in his writings may be found in the Essay prefixed to the translation
of Juvenal, where he is mentioned as a man of quality, whose ashes our author was unwilling
to disturb, and who had paid Dorset, to whom that piece is inscribed, the highest compliment
which his self-sufficiency could afford to any one. Perhaps Dryden remembered Rochester among
others, when, in the same piece, he takes credit for resisting opportunities and temptation
to take revenge, even upon those by whom he had been notoriously and wantonly provoked.[23]

The detail of these quarrels has interrupted our account of Dryden's writings, which we are
now to resume.

"Aureng-Zebe" was his first performance after the failure of the "Assignation." It was acted
in 1675 with general applause. "Aureng-Zebe" is a heroic, or rhyming play, but not cast in
a mould quite so romantic as the "Conquest of Granada." There is a grave and moral turn in
many of the speeches, which brings it nearer the style of a French tragedy. It is true, the
character of Moral borders upon extravagance; but a certain licence has been always given to
theatrical tyrants, and we excuse bombast in him more readily than in Almanzor. There is perhaps
some reason for this indulgence. The possession of unlimited power, vested in active and mercurial
characters, naturally drives them to an extravagant indulgence of passion, bordering upon insanity;
and it follows, that their language must outstrip the modesty of nature. Propriety of diction
in the drama is relative, and to be referred more to individual character than to general rules:
to make a tyrant sober-minded is to make a madman rational. But this discretion must be used
with great caution by the writer, lest he should confound the terrible with the burlesque.
Two great actors, Kynaston and Booth, differed in their style of playing Morat.

The former, who was the original performer, and doubtless had his instructions from the author,
gave full force to the sentiments of avowed and barbarous vainglory, which mark the character.
When he is determined to spare Aureng-Zebe, and Nourmahal pleads,

  "Twill not be safe to let him live an hour,"

Kynaston gave all the stern and haughty insolence of despotism to his answer,

  "I'll do't to show my arbitrary power."[24]

But Booth, with modest caution, avoided marking and pressing upon the audience a sentiment
hovering between the comic and terrible, however consonant to the character by whom it was
delivered. The principal incident in "Aureng-Zebe" was suggested by King Charles himself. The
tragedy is dedicated to Mulgrave, whose patronage had been so effectual, as to introduce Dryden
and his poetical schemes to the peculiar notice of the king and duke. The dedication and the
prologue of this piece throw considerable light upon these plans, as well as upon the revolution
which had gradually taken place in Dryden's dramatic taste.

During the space which occurred between writing the "Conquest of Granada" and "Aureng-Zebe",
our author's researches into the nature and causes of harmony of versification been unremitted,
and he had probably already collected the materials of his intended English Prosodia. Besides
this labour, he had been engaged in a closer and more critical examination of the ancient English
poets, than he had before bestowed upon them. These studies seem to have led Dryden to two
conclusions: first, that the drama ought to be emancipated from the fetters of rhyme; and secondly,
that he ought to employ the system of versification, which he had now perfected, to the more
legitimate purpose of epic poetry. Each of these opinions merits consideration.

However hardily Dryden stood forward in defence of the heroic plays, he confessed, even in
the heat of argument, that Rhyme, though he was brave and generous, and his dominion pleasing,
had still somewhat of the usurper in him. A more minute inquiry seems to have still further
demonstrated the weakness of this usurped dominion; and our author's good taste and practice
speedily pointed out deficiencies and difficulties, which Sir Robert Howard, against whom he
defended the use of rhyme, could not show, because he never aimed at the excellencies which
they impeded. The perusal of Shakespeare, on whom Dryden had now turned his attention, led
him to feel, that something further might be attained in tragedy than the expression of exaggerated
sentiment in smooth verse, and that the scene ought to represent not a fanciful set of agents
exerting their superhuman faculties in a fairy-land of the poet's own creation, but human characters,
acting from the direct and energetic influence of human passions, with whose emotions the audience
might sympathise, because akin to the feelings of their own hearts. When Dryden had once discovered,
that fear and pity were more likely to be excited by other causes than the logic of metaphysical
love, or the dictates of fantastic honour, he must have found, that rhyme sounded as unnatural
in the dialogue of characters drawn upon the usual scale of humanity, as the plate and mail
of chivalry would have appeared on the persons of the actors.

It is remarkable, as a trait of character, that, though our author admitted his change of opinion
on this long disputed point, he would not consent that it should be imputed to any arguments
which his opponents had the wit to bring against him. On this subject he enters a protest in
the Preface to his revised edition of the "Essay of Dramatic Poesy" in 1684:--"I confess, I
find many things in this discourse which I do not now approve; my judgment being not a little
altered since the writing of it; but whether for the better or the worse, I know not: neither
indeed is it much material, in an essay, where all I have said is problematical. For the way
of writing plays in verse, which I have seemed to favour, I have, since that time, laid the
practice of it aside, till I have more leisure, because I find it troublesome and slow: but
I am no way altered from my opinion of it, at least with any reasons which have opposed it;
for your lordship may easily observe, that none are very violent against it, but those who
either have not attempted it, or who have succeeded ill in their attempt."[25] Thus cautious
was Dryden in not admitting a victory, even in a cause which, he had surrendered.

But although the poet had admitted, that, with powers of versification superior to those possessed
by any earlier English author, and a taste corrected by the laborious study both of the language
and those who had used it, he found rhyme unfit for the use of the drama, he at the same time
discovered a province where it might be employed in all its splendour. We have the mortification
to learn, from the Dedication of "Aureng-Zebe," that Dryden only wanted encouragement to enter
upon the composition of an epic poem, and to abandon the thriftless task of writing for the
promiscuous audience of the theatre,--a task which, rivalled as he had lately been by Crowne
and Settle, he most justly compares to the labour of Sisyphus. His plot, he elsewhere explains,
was to be founded either upon the story of Arthur, or of Edward the Black Prince; and he mentions
it to Mulgrave in the following remarkable passage, which argues great dissatisfaction with
dramatic labour, arising perhaps from a combined feeling of the bad taste of rhyming plays,
the degrading dispute with Settle, and the failure of the "Assignation," his last theatrical
attempt:--"If I must be condemned to rhyme, I should find some ease in my change of punishment.
I desire to be no longer the Sisyphus of the stage; to roll up a stone with endless labour,
which, to follow the proverb, gathers no moss; and which is perpetually falling down again.
I never thought myself very fit for an employment, where many of my predecessors have excelled
me in all kinds; and some of my contemporaries, even in my own partial judgment, have outdone
me in comedy. Some little hopes I have yet remaining (and those too, considering my abilities,
may be vain), that I may make the world some part of amends for my ill plays, by an heroic
poem. Your lordship has been long acquainted with my design; the subject of which you know
is great, the story English, and neither too far distant from the present age, nor too near
approaching it. Such it is in my opinion, that I could not have wished a nobler occasion to
do honour by it to my king, my country, and my friends; most of our ancient nobility being
concerned in the action. And your lordship has one particular reason to promote this undertaking
because you were the first who gave me the opportunity of discoursing it to his majesty, and
his royal highness; they were then pleased both to commend the design, and to encourage it
by their commands; but the unsettledness of my condition has hitherto put a stop to my thoughts
concerning it. As I am no successor to Homer in his wit, so neither do I desire to be in his
poverty. I can make no rhapsodies, nor go a begging at the Grecian doors, while I sing the
praises of their ancestors. The times of Virgil please me better, because he had an Augustus
for his patron; and, to draw the allegory nearer you, I am sure I shall not want a Maecenas
with him. It is for your lordship to stir up that remembrance in his majesty, which his many
avocations of business have caused him, I fear, to lay aside; and, as himself and his royal
brother are the heroes of the poem, to represent to them the images of their warlike predecessors;
as Achilles is said to be roused to glory with the sight of the combat before the ships. For
my own part, I am satisfied to have offered the design; and it may be to the advantage of my
reputation to have it refused me."[26]

Dr. Johnson and Mr. Malone remark, that Dryden observes a mystery concerning the subject of
his intended epic, to prevent the risk of being anticipated, as he finally was by Sir Richard
Blackmore on the topic of Arthur. This, as well as other passages in Dryden's life, allows
us the pleasing indulgence of praising the decency of our own time. Were an author of distinguished
merit to announce his having made choice of a subject for a large poem, the writer would have
more than common confidence who should venture to forestall his labours. But, in the seventeenth
century, such an intimation would, it seems, have been an instant signal for the herd of scribblers
to souse upon it, like the harpies on the feast of the Trojans, and leave its mangled relics
too polluted for the use of genius:--

  "Turba sonans praedam pedibus circumvolat uncis;
  Polluit ore dopes.

  Semesam praedam et vestigia foeda relinquunt."

"Aureng-Zebe" was followed, in 1678, by "All for Love," the only play Dryden ever wrote for
himself; the rest, he says, were given to the people. The habitual study of Shakespeare, which
seems lately to have occasioned, at least greatly aided, the revolution in his taste, induced
him, among a crowd of emulous shooters, to try his strength in this bow of Ulysses. I have,
in some preliminary remarks to the play, endeavoured to point out the difference between the
manner of these great artists in treating the misfortunes of Antony and Cleopatra.[27] If these
are just, we must allow Dryden the praise of greater regularity of plot, and a happier combination
of scene; but in sketching the character of Antony, he loses the majestic and heroic tone which
Shakespeare has assigned him. There is too much of the love-lorn knight-errant, and too little
of the Roman warrior, in Dryden's hero. The love of Antony, however overpowering and destructive
in its effects, ought not to have resembled the love of a sighing swain of Arcadia. This error
in the original conception of the character must doubtless be ascribed to Dryden's habit of
romantic composition. Montezuma and Almanzor were, like the prophet's image, formed of a mixture
of iron and clay; of stern and rigid demeanour to all the universe, but unbounded devotion
to the ladies of their affections. In Antony, the first class of attributes are discarded:
he has none of that tumid and outrageous dignity which characterised the heroes of the rhyming
plays, and in its stead is gifted with even more than an usual share of devoted attachment
to his mistress.[28] In the preface, Dryden piques himself upon venturing to introduce the
quarrelling scene between Octavia and Cleopatra, which a French writer would have rejected,
as contrary to the decorum of the theatre. But our author's idea of female character was at
all times low; and the coarse, indecent violence, which he has thrown into the expressions
of a queen and a Roman matron, is misplaced and disgusting, and contradicts the general and
well-founded observation on the address and self-command with which even women of ordinary
dispositions can veil mutual dislike and hatred, and the extreme keenness with which they can
arm their satire, while preserving all the external forms of civil demeanour. But Dryden more
than redeemed this error in the scene between Antony and Ventidius, which he himself preferred
to any that he ever wrote, and perhaps with justice, if we except that between Dorax and Sebastian:
both are avowedly written in imitation of the quarrel between Brutus and Cassius. "All for
Love" was received by the public with universal applause. Its success, with that of "Aureng-Zebe,"
gave fresh lustre to the author's reputation, which had been somewhat tarnished by the failure
of the "Assignation," and the rise of so many rival dramatists. We learn from the Players'
petition to the Lord Chamberlain, that "All for Love" was of service to the author's fortune
as well as to his fame, as he was permitted the benefit of a third night, in addition to his
profits as a sharer with the company.[29] The play was dedicated to the Earl of Danby, then
a minister in high power, but who, in the course of a few months, was disgraced and imprisoned
at the suit of the Commons. As Danby was a great advocate for prerogative, Dryden fails not
to approach him with an encomium on monarchical government, as regulated and circumscribed
by law. In reprobating the schemes of those innovators, who, surfeiting on happiness, endeavoured
to persuade their fellow-subjects to risk a change, he has a pointed allusion to the Earl of
Shaftesbury, who, having left the royal councils in disgrace, was now at the head of the popular
faction.

In 1678 Dryden's next play, a comedy, entitled "Limberham," was acted at Dorset-garden theatre,
but was endured for three nights only. It was designed, the author informs us, as a satire
on "the crying sin of keeping;" and the crime for which it suffered was, that "it expressed
too much of the vice which it decried." Grossly indelicate as this play still is, it would
seem, from the Dedication to Lord Vaughan, that much which offended on the stage was altered,
or omitted, in the press;[30] yet more than enough remains to justify the sentence pronounced
against it by the public. Mr. Malone seems to suppose Shaftesbury's party had some share in
its fate, supposing that the character of Limberham had reference to their leader. Yet surely,
although Shaftesbury was ridiculous for aiming at gallantry, from which his age and personal
infirmity should have deterred him, Dryden would never have drawn the witty, artful politician,
as a silly, henpecked cully. Besides, Dryden was about this time supposed even himself to have
some leaning to the popular cause; a supposition irreconcilable with his caricaturing the foibles
of Shaftesbury.

The tragedy of "Oedipus" was written by Dryden in conjunction with Lee; the entire first and
third acts were the work of our author, who also arranged the general plan, and corrected the
whole piece. Having offered some observations[31] elsewhere upon this play, and the mode in
which its celebrated theme has been treated by the dramatists of different nations, I need
not here resume the subject. The time of the first representation is fixed to the beginning
of the playing season, in winter 1678-9, although it was not printed until 1679.[32] Both "Limberham"
and "Oedipus" were acted at the Duke's theatre; so that it would seem that our author was relieved
from his contract with the King's house, probably because the shares were so much diminished
in value, that his appointment was now no adequate compensation for his labour. The managers
of the King's company complained to the Lord Chamberlain, and endeavoured, as we have seen,
by pleading upon the contract, to assert their right to the play of "Oedipus."[33] But their
claim to reclaim the poet and the play appears to have been set aside, and Dryden continued
to give his performances to the Duke's theatre until the union of the two companies.

Dryden was now to do a new homage to Shakespeare, by refitting for the stage the play of "Troilus
and Cressida," which the author left in a state of strange imperfection, resembling more a
chronicle, or legend, than a dramatic piece. Yet it may be disputed whether Dryden has greatly
improved it even in the particulars which he censures in his original. His plot, though more
artificial, is at the same time more trite than that of Shakespeare. The device by which Troilus
is led to doubt the constancy of Cressida is much less natural than that she should have been
actually inconstant; her vindication by suicide is a clumsy, as well as a hackneyed expedient;
and there is too much drum and trumpet in the grand finale, where "Troilus and Diomede fight,
and both parties engage at the same time. The Trojans make the Greeks retire, and Troilus makes
Diomede give ground, and hurts him. Trumpets sound. Achilles enters with his Myrmidons, on
the backs of the Trojans, who fight in a ring, encompassed round. Troilus, singling Diomede,
gets him down, and kills him; and Achilles kills Troilus upon him. All the Trojans die upon
the place, Troilus last." Such a bellum internecinum can never be waged to advantage upon the
stage. One extravagant passage in this play serves strongly to evince Dryden's rooted dislike
to the clergy. Troilus exclaims,--

  "That I should trust the daughter of a priest!
  Priesthood, that makes a merchandise of heaven!
  Priesthood, that sells even to their prayers and blessings,
  And forces us to pay for our own cozenage!

  Thersites. Nay, cheats heaven too with entrails and with offals;
  Gives it the garbage of a sacrifice,
  And keeps the best for private luxury.

  Troilus. Thou hast deserved thy life for cursing priests.
  Let me embrace thee; thou art beautiful:
  That back, that nose, those eyes are beautiful:
  Live; thou art honest, for thou hat'st a priest."

Dryden prefixed to "Troilus and Cressida" his excellent remarks on the Grounds of Criticism
in Tragedy, giving up, with dignified indifference the faults even of his own pieces, when
they contradict the rules his later judgment had adopted. How much his taste had altered since
his "Essay of Dramatic Poesy," or at least since his "Remarks on Heroic Plays," will appear
from the following abridgment of his new maxims. The plot, according to these remarks, ought
to be simply and naturally detailed from its commencement to its conclusion,--a rule which
excluded the crowded incidents of the Spanish drama; and the personages ought to be dignified
and virtuous, that their misfortunes might at once excite pity and terror. The plots of Shakespeare
and Fletcher are meted by this rule, and pronounced inferior in mechanic regularity to those
of Ben Jonson. The character of the agents, or persons, are next to be considered; and it is
required that their manner shall be at once marked, dramatic, consistent, and natural. And
here the supereminent power of Shakespeare, in displaying the manners, bent, and inclination
of his characters, is pointed out to the reader's admiration. The copiousness of his invention,
and his judgment in sustaining the ideas which he started, are illustrated by referring to
Caliban, a creature of the fancy, begot by an incubus upon a witch, and furnished with a person,
language, and character befitting his pedigree on both sides. The passions are then considered
as included in the manners; and Dryden, at once and peremptorily, condemns both the extravagance
of language, which substitutes noise for feeling, and those points and turns of wit, which
misbecome one actuated by real and deep emotion. He candidly gives an example of the last error
from his own Montezuma who, pursued by his enemies, and excluded from the fort, describes his
situation in a long simile, taken besides from the sea, which he had only heard of for the
first time in the first act. As a description of natural passion, the famous procession of
King Richard in the train of the fortunate usurper is quoted, in justice to the divine author.
From these just and liberal rules of criticism, it is easy to discover that Dryden had already
adopted a better taste, and was disgusted with comedies, where the entertainment arose from
bustling incident, and tragedies, where sounding verse was substituted for the delineation
of manners and expression of feeling. These opinions he pointedly expresses in the Prologue
to "Troilus and Cressida," which was spoken by Betterton, representing the ghost of Shakespeare:

  "See, my loved Britons, see your Shakespeare rise,
  An awful ghost confessed to human eyes!
  Unnamed, methinks, distinguished I had been,
  From other shades, by this eternal green,
  About whose wreaths the vulgar poets strive,
  And, with a touch, their withered bays revive.
  Untaught, unpractised, in a barbarous age,
  I found not, but created first the stage.
  And if I drained no Greek or Latin store,
  'Twas that my own abundance gave me more.
  On foreign trade I needed not rely,
  Like fruitful Britain, rich without supply.
  In this, my rough-drawn play, you shall behold
  Some master-strokes, so manly and so bold,
  That he who meant to alter, found 'em such;
  He shook, and thought it sacrilege to touch.
  Now, where are the successors to my name?
  What bring they to fill out a poet's fame?
  Weak, short-lived issues of a feeble age;
  Scarce living to be christened on the stage!
  For humour farce, for love they rhyme dispense,
  That tolls the knell for their departed sense."

It is impossible to read these lines, remembering Dryden's earlier opinions, without acknowledging
the truth of the ancient proverb, Magna est veritas, et praevalebit.

The "Spanish Friar," our author's most successful comedy, succeeded "Troilus and Cressida."
Without repeating the remarks which are prefixed to the play in the present edition,[34] we
may briefly notice, that in the tragic scenes our author has attained that better strain of
dramatic poetry which he afterwards evinced in "Sebastian." In the comic part, the well-known
character of Father Dominic, though the conception only embodies the abstract idea which the
ignorant and prejudiced fanatics of the day formed to themselves of a Romish priest, is brought
out and illustrated with peculiar spirit. The gluttony, avarice, debauchery, and meanness of
Dominic are qualified with the talent and wit necessary to save him from being utterly detestable;
and, from the beginning to the end of the piece, these qualities are so happily tinged with
insolence hypocrisy, and irritability, that they cannot be mistaken for the avarice, debauchery,
gluttony, and meanness of any other profession than that of a bad churchman. In the tragic
plot, we principally admire the general management of the opening, and chiefly censure the
cold-blooded barbarity and perfidy of the young queen, in instigating the murder of the deposed
sovereign, and then attempting to turn the guilt on her accomplice. I fear Dryden here forgot
his own general rule, that the tragic hero and heroine should have so much virtue as to entitle
their distress to the tribute of compassion. Altogether, however, the "Spanish Friar," in both
its parts, is an interesting, and almost a fascinating play; although the tendency, even of
the tragic scenes, is not laudable, and the comedy, though more decent in language, is not
less immoral in tendency than was usual in that loose age.

Dryden attached considerable importance to the art with which the comic and tragic scenes of
the "Spanish Friar" are combined; and in doing so he has received the sanction of Dr. Johnson.
Indeed, as the ardour of his mind ever led him to prize that task most highly, on which he
had most lately employed his energy, he has affirmed, in the dedication to the "Spanish Friar,"
that there was an absolute necessity for combining two actions in tragedy, for the sake of
variety. "The truth is," he adds, "the audience are grown weary of continued melancholy scenes;
and I dare venture to prophesy, that few tragedies, except those in verse, shall succeed in
this age, if they are not lightened with a course of mirth; for the feast is too dull and solemn
without the fiddles." The necessity of the relief alluded to may be admitted, without allowing
that we must substitute either the misplaced charms of versification, or a secondary comic
plot, to relieve the solemn weight and monotony of tragedy. It is no doubt true, that a highly-buskined
tragedy, in which all the personages maintain the funereal pomp usually required from the victims
of Melpomene, is apt to be intolerably tiresome, after all the pains which a skilful and elegant
poet can bestow upon finishing it. But it is chiefly tiresome, because it is unnatural; and,
in respect of propriety, ought no more to be relieved by the introduction of a set of comic
scenes, independent of those of a mournful complexion, than the sombre air of a funeral should
be enlivened by a concert of fiddles. There appear to be two legitimate modes of interweaving
tragedy with something like comedy. The first and most easy, which has often been resorted
to, is to make the lower or less marked characters of the drama, like the porter in "Macbeth,"
or the fool in "King Lear," speak the language appropriated to their station, even in the midst
of the distresses of the piece; nay, they may be permitted to have some slight under-intrigue
of their own. This, however, requires the exertion of much taste and discrimination; for if
we are once seriously and deeply interested in the distress of the play, the intervention of
anything like buffoonery may unloosen the hold which the author has gained on the feelings
of the audience. If such subordinate comic characters are of a rank to intermix in the tragic
dialogue, their mirth ought to be chastened, till their language bears a relation to that of
the higher persons. For example, nothing can be more absurd than in "Don Sebastian," and some
of Southerne's tragedies, to hear the comic character answer in prose, and with a would-be
witticism, to the solemn, unrelaxed blank verse of his tragic companion.[35] Mercutio is, I
think, one of the best instances of such a comic person as may be reasonably and with propriety
admitted into tragedy: from which, however, I do not exclude those lower characters, whose
conversation appears absurd if much elevated above their rank. There is, however, another mode,
yet more difficult to be used with address, but much more fortunate in effect when it has been
successfully employed. This is, when the principal personages themselves do not always remain
in the buckram of tragedy, but reserve, as in common life, lofty expressions for great occasions,
and at other times evince themselves capable of feeling the lighter, as well as the more violent
or more deep, affections of the mind. The shades of comic humour in Hamlet, in Hotspur, and
in Falconbridge, are so far from injuring, that they greatly aid the effect of the tragic scenes,
in which these same persons take a deep and tragical share. We grieve with them, when grieved,
still more because we have rejoiced with them when they rejoiced; and, on the whole, we acknowledge
a deeper frater feeling, as Burns has termed it, in men who are actuated by the usual changes
of human temperament, than in those who, contrary to the nature of humanity, are eternally
actuated by an unvaried strain of tragic feeling. But whether the poet diversifies his melancholy
scenes by the passing gaiety of subordinate characters; or whether he qualifies the tragic
state of his heroes by occasionally assigning lighter tasks to them; or whether he chooses
to employ both modes of relieving the weight of misery through live long acts; it is obviously
unnecessary that he should distract the attention of his audience, and destroy the regularity
of his play, by introducing a comic plot with personages and interest altogether distinct,
and intrigue but slightly connected with that of the tragedy. Dryden himself afterwards acknowledged
that though he was fond of the "Spanish Friar," he could not defend it from the imputation
of Gothic and unnatural irregularity; "for mirth and gravity destroy each other, and are no
more to be allowed for decent, than a gay widow laughing in a mourning habit."[36]

The "Spanish Friar" was brought out in 1681-2, when the nation was in a ferment against the
Catholics on account of the supposed plot. It is dedicated to John, Lord Haughton, as protestant
play inscribed to a protestant patron. It was also the last dramatic work, excepting the political
play of the "Duke of Guise," and the masque of "Albion and Albanius," brought out by our author
before the Revolution. And in political tendency, the "Spanish Friar" has so different colouring
from these last pieces, that it is worth while to pause to examine the private relations of
the author when he composed it.

Previous to 1678, Lord Mulgrave, our author's constant and probably effectual patron, had given
him an opportunity of discoursing over his plan of an epic poem to the king and Duke of York;
and in the preface to "Aureng-Zebe" in that year, the poet intimates an indirect complaint
that the royal brothers had neglected his plan.[37] About two years afterwards, Mulgrave seems
himself to have fallen into disgrace, and was considered as in opposition to the court.[38]
Dryden was deprived of his intercession, and seems in some degree to have shared his disgrace.
The "Essay on Satire" became public in November 1679, and being generally imputed to Dryden,
it is said distinctly by one libeller, that his pension was for a time interrupted.[39] This
does not seem likely; it is more probable, that Dryden shared the general fate of the household
of Charles II., whose appointments were but irregularly paid; but perhaps his supposed delinquency
made it more difficult for him than others to obtain redress. At this period broke out the
pretended discovery of the Popish Plot, in which Dryden, even in "Absalom and Achitophel,"
evinces a partial belief.[40] Not encouraged, if not actually discountenanced, at court; sharing
in some degree the discontent of his patron Mulgrave; above all, obliged by his situation to
please the age in which he lived, Dryden did not probably hold the reverence of the Duke of
York so sacred, as to prevent his making the ridicule of the Catholic religion the means of
recommending his play to the passions of the audience. Neither was his situation at court in
any danger from his closing on this occasion with the popular tide. Charles, during the heat
of the Popish plot, was so far from being in a situation to incur odium by dismissing a laureate
for having written a Protestant play, that he was obliged for a time to throw the reins of
government into the hands of those very persons to whom the Papists were most obnoxious. The
inference drawn from Dryden's performance was that he had deserted the court; and the Duke
of York was so much displeased with the tenor of the play, that it was the only one of which,
on acceding to the crown, he prohibited the representation. The "Spanish Friar" was often objected
to the author by his opponents, after he had embraced the religion there satirised. Nor was
the idea of his apostasy from the court an invention of his enemies after his conversion, for
it prevailed at the commencement of the party-disputes; and the name of Dryden is, by a partisan
of royalty, ranked with that of his bitter foe Shadwell, as followers of Shaftesbury in 1680.[41]
But whatever cause of coolness or disgust our author had received from Charles or his brother,
was removed, as usual, so soon as his services became necessary; and thus the supposed author
of a libel on the king became the ablest defender of the cause of monarchy, and the author
of the "Spanish Friar" the advocate and convert of the Catholic religion.

In his private circumstances Dryden must have been even worse situated than at the close of
the last Section. His contract with the King's Company was now ended, and long before seems
to have produced him little profit. If Southerne's biographer can be trusted, Dryden never
made by a single play more than one hundred pounds; so that, with all his fertility, he could
not, at his utmost exertion, make more than two hundred a year by his theatrical labours.[42]
At the same time, they so totally engrossed his leisure, that he produced no other work of
consequence after the "Annus Mirabilis."[43] If, therefore, the payment of his pension was
withheld, whether from the resentment of the court, or the poverty of the exchequer, he might
well complain of the "unsettled state" which doomed him to continue these irksome and ill-paid
labours.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Malone, vol. i. p. 124.

[2] Dennis's account of these feuds, though not strictly accurate is lively, and too curious
to be suppressed. "Nothing," says Dennis, "is more certain, than that Mr. Settle, who is now
(1717) the city poet, was formerly a poet of the court. And at what time was he so? Why, in
the reign of King Charles the Second, when that court was more gallant and more polite than
ever the English court perhaps had been before; when there was at court the present and the
late Duke of Buckingham, the late Earl of Dorset, Wilmot, Earl of Rochester, famous for his
wit and poetry, Sir Charles Sedley, Mr. Saville, Mr. Buckley, and several others.

"Mr. Settle's first tragedy, 'Cambyses, King of Persia,' was acted for three weeks together.
The second, which was 'The Empress of Morocco,' was acted for a month together; and was in
such high esteem both with the court and town that it was acted at Whitehall before the king
by the gentlemen and ladies of the court; and the prologue, which was spoken by the Lady Betty
Howard, was writ by the famous Lord Rochester. The bookseller who printed it, depending upon
the prepossession of the town, ventured to distinguish it from all the plays that had been
ever published before; for it was the first play that ever was sold in England for two shillings,
and the first that ever was printed with cuts. The booksellers at that time of day had not
discovered so much of the weakness of their gentle readers as they have done since, nor so
plainly discovered that fools, like children, are to be drawn in by gewgaws.--Well; but what
was the event of this great success? Mr. Settle began to grow insolent, as any one may see,
who reads the epistle dedicatory to 'The Empress of Morocco.' Mr. Dryden, Mr. Shadwell, and
Mr. Crowne, began to grow jealous; and they three in confederacy wrote 'Remarks on the Empress
of Morocco.' Mr. Settle answered them; and, according to the opinion which the town then had
of the matter (for I have utterly forgot the controversy), had by much the better of them all.
In short, Mr. Settle was then a formidable rival to Mr. Dryden; and I remember very well, that
not only the town, but the university of Cambridge, was very much divided in their opinions
about the preference that ought to be given to them; and in both places the younger fry inclined
to Elkanah."

[3] Lord Mulgrave wrote the prologue when Settle's play was first acted at court; Lord Rochester's
was written for the second occasion; both were spoken by the beautiful Lady Elizabeth Howard.

[4] See this offensive dedication in the account of Settle's controversy with Dryden.

[5] A copy of this rare edition (the gift of my learned friend, the Rev. Henry White of Lichfield)
is now before me. The engravings are sufficiently paltry; and had the play been published even
in the present day, it would have been accounted dear at two shillings. The name of the publisher
is William Cademan, the date 1673. [See H. Morley, "English Plays," pp. 351, 352.--ED.]

[6] This title is omitted in subsequent editions.

[7] Of whom it was said, that he spoke "to the tune of a good speech."

[8] As, for example, this stage-direction: "Here a company of villains in ambush from behind
the scenes discharge their guns at Muly-Hamet; at which Muly-Hamet starting and turning, Hametalhaz
from under his priest's habit draws a sword and passes at Muly-H., which pass is intercepted
by Abdeleader. They engage in a very fierce fight with the villains, who also draw and assist
Hametalhaz, and go off several ways fighting; after the discharge of other guns heard from
within, and the clashing of swords, enter again Muly-Hamet, driving in some of the former villains,
which he kills."

[9] In the fifth act the scene draws and discovers Crimalhaz cast down on the guanches, i.e.
hung on a wall set with spikes, scythe-blades, and hooks of iron; which scene (to judge from
the engraving) exhibited the mangled limbs and wasted bones of former sufferers, suspended
in agreeable confusion. With this pleasing display the piece concluded.

[10] Settle's pamphlet was contumaciously entitled, "Notes and Observations on the Empress
of Morocco revised, with some few erratas; to be printed instead of the Postscript with the
next Edition of the Conquest of Granada, 1674." See some quotations from this piece, vol. xv.

[11] His comedy of "Sir Courtly Nice" exhibits marks of comic power. [The condemnation of his
other work is a little too sweeping.--ED.]

[12] See vol. x.

[13] [As is the case with many other circumstances of the life of Dryden, this business of
Calisto has been much exaggerated. The amount of positive evidence of Rochester's interference
is exceedingly small, and of his ill offices in regard to the epilogue there is no proof whatever.--ED.]

[14] So called, according to the communicative old correspondent of the Gentleman's Magazine
in 1745, from the unalterable stiffness of his long cravat.

[15] "I am well satisfied I had the greatest party of men of wit and sense on my side: amongst
which I can never enough acknowledge the unspeakable obligations I received from the Earl of
R., who, far above what I am ever able to deserve from him, seemed almost to make it his business
to establish it in the good opinion of the king and his royal highness; from both of which
I have since received confirmations of their good-liking of it, and encouragement to proceed.
And it is to him, I must, in all gratitude, confess, I owe the greatest part of my good success
in this and on whose indulgency I extremely build my hopes of a next." Accordingly, next year,
Otway's play of "Titus and Berenice" is inscribed to Rochester, "his good and generous patron."

[16]
  "Tom Otway came next, Tom Shailwell's dear zany,
  And swears for heroics he writes best of any;
  'Don Carlos' his pockets so amply had filled,
  That his mange was quite cured, and his lice were all killed.

[17] "Though a certain writer, that shall be nameless (but you may guess at him by what follows),
being ask'd his opinion of this play, very gravely cock't, and cry'd, I'gad he knew not a line
in it he would be authour of. But he is a fine facetious witty person, as my friend Sir Formal
has it; and to be even with him, I know a comedy of his, that has not so much as a quibble
in it which I would be authour of. And so, reader, I bid him and thee farewell." The use of
Dryden's interjection, well known through Bayes's employing it, ascertains him to be the poet
meant.

[18]
  "Well, sir, 'tis granted; I said Dryden's rhymes
  Were stolen, unequal, nay dull many times;
  What foolish patron is there found of his,
  So blindly partial to deny me this?
  But that his plays, embroidered up and down
  With learning, justly pleased the town,
  In the same paper I as freely own.
  Yet, having this allowed, the heavy mass,
  That stuffs up his loose volumes, must not pass;
  For by that rule I might as well admit
  Crowne's tedious scenes for poetry and wit.
  'Tis therefore not enough when your false sense
  Hits the false judgment of an audience
  Of clapping fools assembling, a vast crowd,
  Till the thronged playhouse cracked with the dull load;
  Though even that talent merits, in some sort,
  That can divert the rabble and the court;
  Which blundering Settle never could obtain,
  And puzzling Otway labours at in vain."

He afterwards mentions Etherege's seductive poetry, and adds:

  "Dryden in vain tried this nice way of wit;
  For he, to be a tearing blade, thought fit
  To give the ladies a dry bawdy bob;
  And thus he got the name of Poet Squab.
  But to be just, 'twill to his praise be found,
  His excellencies more than faults abound;
  Nor dare I from his sacred temples tear
  The laurel, which he best deserves to wear.
  But does not Dryden find even Jonson dull?
  Beaumont and Fletcher uncorrect, and full
  Of lewd lines, as he calls them? Shakespeare's style
  Stiff and affected? To his own the while
  Allowing all the justice that his pride
  So arrogantly had to these denied?
  And may not I have leave impartially
  To search and censure Dryden's works, and try
  If those gross faults his choice pen doth commit,
  Proceed from want of judgment, or of wit?
  Or if his lumpish fancy does refuse
  Spirit and grace, to his loose slattern muse?
  Five hundred verses every morning writ,
  Prove him no more a poet than a wit."

[19]
  "Rochester I despise for's mere want of wit,
  Though thought to have a tail and cloven feet;
  For while he mischief means to all mankind,
  Himself alone the ill effects does find;
  And so, like witches, justly suffers shame,
  Whose harmless malice is so much the same.
  False are his words, affected is his wit,
  So often does he aim, so seldom hit.
  To every face he cringes while he speaks,
  But when the back is turned, the head he breaks.
  Mean in each action, lewd in every limb,
  Manners themselves are mischievous in him;
  A proof that chance alone makes every creature,--
  A very Killigrew, without good-nature.
  For what a  has he always
  lived,
  And his own kickings notably contrived;
  For (there's the folly that's still mixed with fear)
  Cowards more blows than any hero bear.
  Of fighting sparks Fame may her pleasure say,
  But 'tis a bolder thing to run away.
  The world may well forgive him all his ill,
  For every fault does prove his penance still.
  Falsely he lulls into some dangerous noose,
  And then as meanly labours to get loose.
  A life so infamous is better quitting;
  Spent in base injury and low submitting.--
  I'd like to have left out his poetry,
  Forgot by all almost as well as me.
  Sometimes he has some humour, never wit,
  And if it rarely, very rarely hit,
  'Tis under such a nasty rubbish laid,
  To find it out's the cinder-woman's trade;
  Who for the wretched remnants of a fire,
  Must toil all day in ashes and in mire.
  So lewdly dull his idle works appear,
  The wretched text deserves no comments here;
  Where one poor thought sometime's left all alone,
  For a whole page of dulness to atone:
  'Mongst forty bad, one tolerable line,
  Without expression, fancy, or design."

[20] "Whereas John Dryden, Esq., was on Monday the 18th instant, at night, barbarously assaulted,
and wounded in Rose-street, in Covent-garden, by divers men unknown; if any person shall make
discovery of the said offenders to the said Mr. Dryden, or to any justice of the peace, he
shall not only receive fifty pounds, which is deposited in the hands of Mr. Blanchard, goldsmith,
next door to Temple-bar, for the said purpose; but if he be a principal, or an accessory, in
the said fact, his Majesty is graciously pleased to promise him his pardon for the same."--London
Gazette, from December 18th to December 22d, 1679. Mr. Malone mentions the same advertisement
in a newspaper, entitled, "Domestic Intelligence or News from City and Country."

[21] I might also mention the sentiment of Count Conigsmarck, who allowed, that the barbarous
assassination of Mr. Thynne by his bravoes was a slain on his blood, but such a one as a good
action in the wars, or a lodging on a counterscarp, would easily wash out. See his Trial, "State
Trials," vol. iv. But Conigsmarck was a foreigner.

[22] For example, a rare broadside in ridicule of Benjamin Harris the Whig publisher, entitled,
"The Saint turned Courtezan, or a new Plot discovered by a precious Zealot of an Assault and
Battery designed upon the Body of a sanctified Sister,

  "Who, in her husband's absence, with a brother
  Did often use to comfort one another,
  Till wide-mouthed Crop, who is an old Italian,
  Took his mare nappy, and surprised her stallion,
  Who, steal of entertainment from his mistress,
  Did meet a cudgelling not matched in histories."

    "Who's there?" quoth watchful Argus.
      "Tis I, in longing passion,
    Give me a kiss."
    Quoth Ben, "Take this,
      A Dryden salutation."

      "Help Care, Vile, Smith, and Curtes,
      Each zealous covenanter!
      What wonder the atheist
      L'Estrange should turn papist,
      When a zealot turns a ranter."

[23] Vol. xiii.

[24] Cibber's Apology, 4to, p. 74.

[25] Vol. xv.

[26] Vol. v.

[27] Vol. v.

[28] This distinction our author himself points out in the Prologue. The poet there says,

  "His hero, whom you wits his bully call,
  Bates of his mettle, and scarce rants at all;
  He's somewhat lewd, but a well-meaning mind,
  Weeps much, fights little, but is wondrous kind."--Vol. v.

[29] See Footnote 26, Section II, this volume.

[30] Mr. Malone has seen a MS. copy of "Limberham" in its original state, found by Bolingbroke
in the sweepings of Pope's study. It contained several exceptionable passages, afterwards erased
or altered.

[31] Vol. vi.

[32] By allusion to the act for burying in woollen.

[33] 

[34] Vol. vi.

[35] This is ridiculed in "Chrononhotonthologos."

[36] Parallel of Poetry and Painting, vol. xvii.

[37]  in text, Section IV.]

[38] He is said to have cast the eyes of ambitious affection on the Lady Anne (afterwards queen),
daughter of the Duke of York; at which presumption Charles was so much offended, that when
Mulgrave went to relieve Tangier in 1680, he is said to have been appointed to a leaky and
frail vessel, in hopes that he might perish; an injury which he resented so highly, as not
to permit the king's health to be drunk at his table till the voyage was over. On his return
from Tangier he was refused the regiment of the Earl of Plymouth; and, considering his services
as neglected, for a time joined those who were discontented with the government. He was probably
reclaimed by receiving the government of Hull and lieutenancy of Yorkshire. See vol. ix.

[39] In a poem called "The Laureat," the satirist is so ill informed, as still to make Dryden
the author of the "Essay on Satire." Surely it is unlikely to suppose, that he should have
submitted to the loss of a pension, which he so much needed, rather than justify himself, where
justification was so easy. Yet his resentment is said to have been

  "For Pension lost, and justly, without doubt:
  When servants snarl we ought to kick them out.
         *       *       *       *       *
  That lost, the visor changed, you turn about,
  And straight a true-blue Protestant crept out.
  The Friar now was wrote; and some will say,
  They smell a malcontent through all the play."

See the whole passage, vol. vi.

[40] See, for this point also, the volume last quoted.

[41] In "A Modest Vindication of Antony, Earl of Shaftesbury, in a Letter to a Friend concerning
his having been elected King of Poland," Dryden is named poet-laureate to the supposed king-elect,
and Shadwell his deputy. See vol. ix.

[42] "Dryden being very desirous of knowing how much Southerne had made by the profits of one
of his plays, the other, conscious of the little success Dryden had met with in theatrical
compositions, declined the question, and answered, he was really ashamed to acquaint him. Dryden
continuing to be solicitous to be informed, Southerne owned he had cleared by his last play
£700; which appeared astonishing to Dryden, who was perhaps ashamed to confess, that he had
never been able to acquire, by any of his most successful pieces, more than £100."--Life of
Southerne prefixed to his Plays.

[43] There was published, 1679, a translation of Appian, printed for John Amery at the Peacock,
against St. Dunstan's Church, Fleet-street. It is inscribed by the translator, J.D., to the
Earl of Ossory; and seems to have been undertaken by his command. This work is usually termed
in catalogues, Dryden's Appian. I presume it may be the work of that Jonathan Dryden who is
mentioned in p 26.

The controversies, in which Dryden had hitherto been engaged, were of a private complexion,
arising out of literary disputes and rivalry. But the country was now deeply agitated by political
faction; and so powerful an auxiliary was not permitted by his party to remain in a state of
inactivity. The religion of the Duke of York rendered him obnoxious to a large proportion of
the people, still agitated by the terrors of the Popish Plot. The Duke of Monmouth, handsome,
young, brave, and courteous, had all the external requisites for a popular idol; and what he
wanted in mental qualities was amply supplied by the Machiavel subtlety of Shaftesbury. The
life of Charles was the only isthmus between these contending tides, "which, mounting, viewed
each other from afar, and strove in vain to meet." It was already obvious, that the king's
death was to be the signal of civil war. His situation was doubly embarrassing, because, in
all probability, Monmouth, whose claims were both unjust in themselves and highly derogatory
to the authority of the crown, was personally amiable, and more beloved by Charles than was
his inflexible and bigoted brother. But to consent to the bill for excluding the lawful heir
from the crown, would have been at the same time putting himself in a state of pupillage for
the rest of his reign, and evincing to his subjects, that they had nothing to expect from attachment
to his person, or defence of his interest. This was a sacrifice not to be thought of so long
as the dreadful recollection of the wars in the preceding reign determined a large party to
support the monarch, while he continued willing to accept of their assistance. Charles accordingly
adopted a determined course; and, to the rage rather than confusion of his partisans, Monmouth
was banished to Holland, from whence he boldly returned without the king's licence, and openly
assumed the character of the leader of a party. Estranged from court, he made various progresses
through the country, and employed every art which the genius of Shaftesbury could suggest,
to stimulate the courage, and to increase the number, of his partisans. The press, that awful
power, so often and so rashly misused, was not left idle. Numbers of the booksellers were distinguished
as Protestant or fanatical publishers; and their shops teemed with the furious declamations
of Ferguson, the inflammatory sermons of Hickeringill, the political disquisitions of Hunt,
and the party plays and libellous poems of Settle and Shadwell. An host of rhymers, inferior
even to those last named, attacked the king, the Duke of York, and the ministry, in songs and
libels, which, however paltry, were read, sung, rehearsed, and applauded. It was time that
some champion should appear in behalf of the crown, before the public should have been irrecoverably
alienated by the incessant and slanderous clamour of its opponents. Dryden's place, talents,
and mode of thinking, qualified him for this task. He was the poet-laureate and household servant
of the king thus tumultuously assailed. His vein of satire was keen, terse, and powerful, beyond
any that has since been displayed. From the time of the Restoration, he had been a favourer
of monarchy, perhaps more so, because the opinion divided him from his own family. If he had
been for a time neglected, the smiles of a sovereign soon make his coldness forgotten; and
if his narrow fortune was not increased, or even rendered stable, he had promises of provision,
which inclined him to look to the future with hope, and endure the present with patience. If
he had shared in the discontent which for a time severed Mulgrave from the royal party, that
cause ceased to operate when his patron was reconciled to the court, and received a share of
the spoils of the disgraced Monmouth.[1] If there wanted further impulse to induce Dryden,
conscious of his strength, to mingle in an affray where it might be displayed to advantage,
he had the stimulus of personal attachment and personal enmity, to sharpen his political animosity.
Ormond, Halifax, and Hyde, Earl of Rochester, among the nobles, were his patrons; Lee and Southerne,
among the poets, were his friends. These were partisans of royalty. The Duke of York, whom
the "Spanish Friar" probably had offended, was conciliated by a prologue on his visiting the
theatre at his return from Scotland,[2] and it is said, by the omission of certain peculiarly
offensive passages, so soon as the play was reprinted.[3] The opposite ranks contained Buckingham,
author of the "Rehearsal;" Shadwell, with whom our poet now urged open war; and Settle, the
insolence of whose rivalry was neither forgotten nor duly avenged. The respect due to Monmouth
was probably the only consideration to be overcome: but his character was to be handled with
peculiar lenity; and his duchess, who, rather than himself, had patronised Dryden, was so dissatisfied
with the politics, as well as the other irregularities, of her husband, that there was no danger
of her taking a gentle correction of his ambition as any affront to herself. Thus stimulated
by every motive, and withheld by none, Dryden composed, and on the 17th November 1681 published,
the satire of "Absalom and Achitophel."

The plan of the satire was not new to the public. A Catholic poet had, in 1679, paraphrased
the scriptural story of Naboth's vine-yard and applied it to the condemnation of Lord Stafford,
on account of the Popish Plot.[4] This poem is written in the style of a scriptural allusion;
the names and situations of personages in the holy text being applied to those contemporaries,
to whom the author assigned a place in his piece. Neither was the obvious application of the
story of Absalom and Achitophel to the persons of Monmouth and Shaftesbury first made by our
poet. A prose paraphrase, published in 1080, had already been composed upon this allusion.[5]
But the vigour of the satire, the happy adaptation, not only of the incidents, but of the very
names to the individuals characterised, gave Dryden's poem the full effect of novelty. It appeared
a very short time after Shaftesbury had been committed to the Tower, and only a few days before
the grand jury were to take under consideration the bill preferred against him for high treason.
Its sale was rapid beyond example; and even those who were most severely characterised, were
compelled to acknowledge the beauty, if not the justice, of the satire. The character of Monmouth,
an easy and gentle temper, inflamed beyond its usual pitch by ambition, and seduced by the
arts of a wily and interested associate, is touched with exquisite delicacy. The poet is as
careful of the offending Absalom's fame, as the father in Scripture of the life of his rebel
son. The fairer side of his character is industriously presented, and a veil drawn over all
that was worthy of blame. But Shaftesbury pays the lenity with which Monmouth is dismissed.
The traits of praise, and the tribute paid to that statesman's talents, are so qualified and
artfully blended with censure, that they seem to render his faults even more conspicuous, and
more hateful. In this skilful mixture of applause and blame lies the nicest art of satire.
There must be an appearance of candour on the part of the poet, and just so much merit allowed,
even to the object of his censure, as to make his picture natural. It is a child alone who
fears the aggravated terrors of a Saracen's head; the painter, who would move the awe of an
enlightened spectator, must delineate his tyrant with human features. It seems likely, that
Dryden considered the portrait of Shaftesbury, in the first edition of "Absalom and Achitophel,"
as somewhat deficient in this respect; at least the second edition contains twelve additional
lines, the principal tendency of which is to praise the ability and integrity with which Shaftesbury
had discharged the office of lord high chancellor. It has been reported, that this mitigation
was intended to repay a singular exertion of generosity on Shaftesbury's part, who, while smarting
under the lash of Dryden's satire, and in the short interval between the first and second edition
of the poem, had the liberality to procure admission for the poet's son upon the foundation
of the Charterhouse, of which he was then governor. But Mr. Malone has fully confuted this
tale, and shown, from the records of the seminary, that Dryden's son Erasmus was admitted upon
the recommendation of the king himself.[6] The insertion, therefore, of the lines in commemoration
of Shaftesbury's judicial character, was a voluntary effusion on the part of Dryden, and a
tribute which he seems to have judged it proper to pay to the merit even of an enemy. Others
of the party of Monmouth, or rather of the opposition party (for it consisted, as is commonly
the case, of a variety of factions, agreeing in the single principle of opposition to the government),
were stigmatised with severity, only inferior to that applied to Achitophel. Among these we
distinguish the famous Duke of Buckingham, with whom, under the character of Zimri, our author
balanced accounts for his share in the "Rehearsal;" Bethel, the Whig sheriff, whose scandalous
avarice was only equalled by his factious turbulence; and Titus Oates, the pretended discoverer
of the Popish Plot. The account of the Tory chiefs, who retained, in the language of the poem,
their friendship for David at the expense of the popular hatred, included, of course, most
of Dryden's personal protectors. The aged Duke of Ormond is panegyrised with a beautiful apostrophe
to the memory of his son, the gallant Earl of Ossory. The Bishops of London and Rochester;
Mulgrave our author's constant patron, now reconciled with Charles and his government; the
plausible and trimming Halifax; and Hyde, Earl of Rochester, second son to the great Clarendon,
appear in this list. The poet having thus arrayed and mustered the forces on each side, some
account of the combat is naturally expected; and Johnson complains, that, after all the interest
excited, the story is but lamely winded up by a speech from the throne, which produces the
instantaneous and even marvellous effect, of reconciling all parties, and subduing the whole
phalanx of opposition. Even thus, says the critic, the walls, towers, and battlements of an
enchanted castle disappear, when the destined knight winds his horn before it. Spence records
in his Anecdotes, that Charles himself imposed on Dryden the task of paraphrasing the speech
to his Oxford parliament, at least the most striking passages, as a conclusion to his poem
of "Absalom and Achitophel."

But let us consider whether the nature of the poem admitted of a different management in the
close. Incident was not to be attempted; for the poet had described living characters and existing
factions, the issue of whose contention was yet in the womb of fate, and could not safely be
anticipated in the satire. Besides, the dissolution of the Oxford parliament with that memorable
speech, was a remarkable era in the contention of the factions, after which the Whigs gradually
declined, both in spirit, in power, and in popularity. Their boldest leaders were for a time
appalled;[7] and when they resumed their measures, they gradually approached rather revolution
than reform, and thus alienated the more temperate of their own party, till at length their
schemes terminated in the Rye-house Conspiracy. The speech having such an effect, was therefore
not improperly adopted as a termination to the poem of "Absalom and Achitophel."

The success of this wonderful satire was so great, that the court had again recourse to the
assistance of its author. Shaftesbury was now liberated from the Tower; for the grand jury,
partly influenced by deficiency of proof, and partly by the principles of the Whig party, out
of which the sheriffs had carefully selected them, refused to find the bill of high treason
against him. This was a subject of unbounded triumph to his adherents, who celebrated his acquittal
by the most public marks of rejoicing. Amongst others, a medal was struck, bearing the head
and name of Shaftesbury, and on the reverse, a sun, obscured with a cloud, rising over the
Tower and city of London, with the date of the refusal of the bill (24th November 1681), and
the motto LAETAMUR. These medals, which his partisans wore ostentatiously at their bosoms,
excited the general indignation of the Tories; and the king himself is said to have suggested
it as a theme for the satirical muse of Dryden, and to have rewarded his performance with an
hundred broad pieces. To a poet of less fertility, the royal command, to write again upon a
character which, in a former satire, he had drawn with so much precision and felicity, might
have been as embarrassing at least as honourable. But Dryden was inexhaustible; and easily
discovered, that, though he had given the outline of Shaftesbury in "Absalom and Achitophel,"
the finished colouring might merit another canvas. About the sixteenth of March 1681, he published,
anonymously "The Medal, a Satire against Sedition," with the apt motto,

  "Per Graium populos, mediaeque per Elidis urbem
  Ibat ovans; Divumque sibi poscebat honores."

