The absence of any adequate notice of Sir Alan Cameron's services, save that in a couple of
pages of the Gentleman's Magazine at his death (1828) may be ascribed much to his own reticence
in supplying information respecting them. Sir John Philliphart and Colonel David Stewart, when
collecting materials for their respective "Military Annals," expressed their regret that Sir
Alan's reply to their applications for particulars of his life and career was of the most meagre
nature. Although in common with the majority of other distinguished men, averse to giving publicity
to the incidents of his life, he was otherwise than reticent with his friends, and was never
happier than when surrounded by them. His house in Gloucester Place was a rendezvous during
many years for his companions in arms, and his "Highland cousins" (as he fondly termed them)
were always received with a genial welcome. Notwithstanding the general absence of his name
from unofficial publications, it may be affirmed, without hesitation, that in his day few were
better known, and there was none whose fame stood higher than Ailean an Earrachd. In the army
he was held in universal popularity, where, in consequence of his familiar habit of addressing
the Irish and Highland soldiers with the Gaelic salute of "Cia mar tha thu," he was known as
"Old cia mar tha." Indeed, he is so styled in Mr Lever's novel of "Charles O'Malley," where
he is represented (vol. 1, chap, x.) as one of the friends of General Sir George Dashwood.
Another writer (Miss Sinclair's "Scotland and the Scotch") refers to him as "a frequent visitor
at her father's house in London, and a celebrity of the past generation who was said to have
been one of the principals in the last duel fought with broadswords; and also known to his
friends for the more than hearty grasp he shook their hands with." These distinctions, no doubt,
combined many incidents for their existence. A tragic adventure at the outset of his career;
his imprisonment during the American War; and afterwards his services with the Highlanders
throughout the wars of the period. He was remarkable for the immense size and powerful structure
of his person. In a verse from one of the many Gaelic songs written in honour of Fear an Earrachd,
alluding to his majestic form and figure when in the Highland costume, the bard says:--

    Nuair theid thu 'n uidheam Gaidheil
    Bu mhiann le Ban-Righ sealladh dhiot,
    Le t-osan is math fiaradh,
    Do chalp air fiamh na gallinn矇:
    Sporan a bhruic-fhiadhaich,
    Gun chruaidh shnaim riamh ga theannachadh,
    Gur tric thu tarruing iall as
    'S ga riachaidh a measg aineartaich.

He was the firm friend of the soldier, and considered every man in his regiment committed to
his personal care. In health he advised them; in sickness he saw that their wants were supplied;
and once any became disabled, he was incessant in his efforts till he secured a pension for
them. Numerous are the stories told of the encounters between Sir Harry Torrens (Military Secretary
to the Commander-in-Chief) and himself for his persistent applications for pensions and promotions.
These poor fellows, for whom he was never tired of interceding, were naturally grateful for
his fatherly feeling towards them. Such is an outline of the characteristics of the subject
of the following Biographical sketch.

CHAPTER II.

THE sires of the subject of our memoir were of the tribe of Camerons' known as Sliochd Eoghainn
'ic Eoghainn, and descended directly from the parent stock of the chiefs of the clan, to whom
they stood next in relationship after the Fassiferns. The lands assigned for their occupation,
and on which they lived from the earliest settlement of the Camerons in Lochaber, were within
a short distance of the castle of the chiefs, and the homestead of Sir Alan's family was named
Earrachd, and situated on an elevated plateau at the entrance of Gleann Laoidh (Glen Loy) which
leads off in a westerly direction. It is close to, and seen from, the banks of that portion
of the Caledonian Canal between Gairlochy and Banavie Locks.

The parents of Alan were Donald Cameron and Marsali (Marjory) MacLean (of the family of Drimnin
in Morvern). Two incidents connected with the infancy of both father and son are peculiarly
remarkable. The father was an infant in the arms of his mother when she went to the gathering
place to support the Earl of Mar (1715) to bid farewell to her husband the day the clan left;
and Alan was an infant in the arms of his mother when his father marched out with the clan
to meet Prince Charles at Glenfinnan (1745). The battle of Sheriffmuir ended the career of
Alan's grandfather, and the disasters on the field of Culloden made the father a wanderer from
his hearth and home for the next three years, while his family were subjected during that time
to cruelties and indignities, which were a disgrace to men calling themselves the soldiers
of the king. Domiciliary visits were made at frequent intervals, and on every occasion numbers
of cattle were driven off the lands for the use of the garrison at Fort-William. These spoliations
continued for several months after the rising was suppressed, and proved ruinous to the poor
people whose only crime was that they risked their lives in support of the claims of one whom
they believed to be the rightful heir to the Crown of the United Kingdom. Their descendants,
a quarter of a century afterwards, risked their lives in another cause with equal fidelity
and bravery, asserting the rights and defending the honour of the British Crown. It is known
that the Clan Cameron was the first to appear in support of the standard of the Prince. The
gathering place of the clan was at Drochaid Laoidh, and there ten of the twelve tribes promptly
answered the Cothionnal "Thigibh a chlann na 'n con 's gheobh sibh feoil." The absentees were,
the Camerons of Fassifern, and the Camerons of Glen Nevis; the proverbial caution of the first
forbade their adherence, while the influence of the Whig Clan Grant prevailed with the latter.
The defection of the Fassiferns gave the place of second in command, or Lieutenant of the clan,
to Cameron of Earrachd (Alan's father). The clan turned out 600, but these were considerably
augmented a few days afterwards. After a spirited address from the chief (the "gentle Lochiel"),
the first march of that eventful movement commenced with pipers playing and banners flying,
wending their way with steady demeanour and elastic step up Glen Loy, and over the hills that
separated them from Glenfinnan.

Many of the chiefs of Lochiel were, in addition to being men of great military renown and martial
ardour, shrewd politicians. They encouraged other septs to dwell on their lands that they might
be serviceable to assist them in keeping the jealous or more turbulent spirits of their own
clansmen in subjection. At any rate, with the Camerons in this campaign, a third was composed
of Maclachlans, Macmillans, Kennedies, Macphees, Mackinnons, &c.

The Governor of the garrison at Fort-William having heard of the intended gathering at Glenfinnan,
sent out a company of soldiers by way of reconnoitring the proceedings. To avoid observance
they followed a devious path over the hills, and most opportunely fell in with the Camerons,
by whom they were surrounded, and without much difficulty made prisoners. Besides the eclat
of this the first victory, the arms thus possessed were of considerable advantage to the Highlanders,
most of whom were miserably equipped for the exigencies of the campaign.

A most cordial reception was given to Lochiel and his clan by the Prince, after which the Marquis
of Tullibardine unfurled the standard, amidst unbounded enthusiasm. It was made of white and
blue silk. Meanwhile the Laird of Keppoch was observed advancing with a contingent of 300 of
his Macdonells. At the head of the diminutive force thus made up, Prince Charles embarked on
a contest with a power the most formidable in Europe. And the daring of this small band was
even more conspicuous when they at once determined to march direct on the capital of the kingdom.
Glenfinnan, formed not unlike an amphitheatre, and easy of access for all parts of the Western
Highlands, was admirably fitted for the rendezvous.

The morning march of the little army took the route alongside of an arm of the sea named Lochiel
(the same from which the chief takes his modern title) to Corpach. Here they encamped the first
night, afterwards continuing their way up the Braes of Lochaber, Blair Athole, and towards
the City of Perth, which they occupied as an intermediate resting place. A few days further
march brought them within a short distance of Edinburgh. On nearing the capital a halt was
made at Duddingston, and a council was held, at which it was decided to detach Lochiel's force
to make the advance and demand the surrender of the city. The Camerons having been the first
arrivals at Glenfinnan, may have been the cause of this selection. Lochiel having received
some injury from a fall off his horse on the journey, he was unable to accompany his clansmen.
Cameron of Earrachd consequently succeeded to the command of this important mission, and its
success is matter of history. The events of the '45 are introduced into the career of Alan
(the son) somewhat irrelevantly, but only to connect the latter with the singular incident
that sixty-two years afterwards it fell to his lot to have been ordered by Sir Arthur Wellesley
to take possession of the Citadel of Copenhagen (1807). Taking leave now of Prince Charles
and his Highlanders, with their fortunes and their failures, the narrative of Alan Cameron
will proceed without further divergence.

CHAPTER III.

IT was during these turbulent times that Alan Cameron passed his infantile years--he was four
years of age before he saw his father, and, although it was hoped that the settlement of the
difficulties which had existed would favour his career in life, exempt from the toils and strifes
of war, it was not so ordained, as the narrative will prove.

Alan was the oldest son of a family of three sons and three daughters, some of whom found meet
employment subsequently in his regiment. Their education was conducted as customary in those
days by resident tutors from Aberdeen and St Andrews. With one of these Alan, on reaching a
suitable age, went to the latter University for one or two sessions to complete his education.
As the oldest son, it was intended that on arriving at a certain age he should relieve his
father of the care and management of the lands and stock, and become the responsible representative
of the family at home; while it was arranged that of the other sons, Donald was to enter the
naval service of the Dutch East India Company, and the youngest, Ewan, was to find a commission
in one of the Fencible Corps of the county of Argyll. But this arrangement was not to be, especially
as regards the eldest and youngest sons. A circumstance of melancholy interest occurred before
the former had taken to the succession of the farm, or the other had arrived at the age to
be an effective officer of his regiment, which had the effect of exactly reversing these intentions.
The occurrence referred to was of a tragical nature, and caused the utmost sensation among
the families of the district, inasmuch as relationship was so general there that whatever brought
affliction to the hearth of one family, would leave its portion also at the threshold of the
others. Alan, like other youths, employed much of his juvenile years in the sports of a Highland
country life--fox-hunting, deer-stalking, and fishing for salmon on the Lochy; at all of which
he was more than ordinarily successful. The nearest house to his father's was that of another
Cameron--chieftain of a considerable tribe (Mac Ile' Onaich or Sliochd Ile' Onaich), who had
recently died of wounds received at Culloden. His widow and children occupied the house at
Strone. The lady is reputed to have been very handsome, and would apparently answer Donachadh
Ban's description of Isabel og an or fhuilt bhuidhe, leastways, to borrow a word from the Cockney--she
was styled par excellance, a Bhanntrach Ruadh. Alan, like a friendly kinsman, was most generous
in sharing the successes of his gun and rod with the widowed lady, for which, no doubt, she
expressed her acknowledgments to the youthful sportsman. The course of this commendable neighbourship
was rather unexpectedly interrupted by some words of misunderstanding which occurred between
Alan and a gentleman (also a Cameron) who was closely related to the widow's late husband.
He was known as Fear Mhorsheirlich; had been out in the '45 when quite a youth, and escaped
to Holland, from which he had only returned a few months previous to the incident of this narrative.
Contemporaries spoke of him as being most accomplished, and of gallant bearing. The real nature
of the dispute has not descended sufficiently authentic to justify more minute reference than
that rumour assigned it to have been an accusation that Alan was imprudently intimate with
the handsome widow of Strone (a Bhanntrach Ruadh). The delicate insinuation was resented by
Alan in language probably more plain than polite. Mr Cameron was Alan's senior by some twenty
years or so, but notwithstanding this, his high spirit could not brook the rough retort of
the accused; and, much to Alan's confusion, the result was that he received a peremptory demand
to apologise or arrange a meeting for personal satisfaction. As he declined to return the one,
he was obliged to grant the desperate alternative. Reading this account of men going out to
engage in personal combat for a cause so small, will lead us to consider that such a result
ought to have been prevented by the interposition of friends. But it must not be overlooked
that the customs of the times are very much ameliorated from what prevailed in those days (1772).
It is probable that even then if the management of the affair had been confided to skilful
diplomatists the meeting might have been averted. Friends of such conciliating habits were
either not at hand, or they were not consulted; and, as men equal in high spirits, the principals
could not volunteer any compromise. Alan's chief anxiety was how to keep the event secret from
his parents and family, therefore, he quietly repaired to a relative to request his attendance
the following morning as his friend for the occasion. It is said that this gentleman used his
utmost powers of dissuasion, although unsuccessful--determination had, in the interval of a
few hours, become too settled for alteration. Alan, as the challenged, was, according to duelling
etiquette, entitled to the choice of weapons and place of meeting. Although the pistol had
in a measure superseded the rapier in England, the broadsword remained the favourite weapon
in the north when required for the purpose of personal satisfaction. Highlanders had always
a preference for the weapon named by Ossian--An Lann tanna--and by the modern bards--Tagha
nan Arm. Alan decided on making choice of the steel blade, and named a certain obscure spot
on the banks of the Lochy for the meeting on the following day at the grey hour of the morning.
His difficulty now was how to get possession of one of these implements of war without exciting
suspicion or inquiries. They numbered more than one in the armory of every Highland household,
and in the case of those in his father's house they were preserved with a care due to articles
which had been often used with effect in the past. Among them was one which had been out in
the campaigns of 1689 (Dundee's), 1715 (Mar's), and in 1745-6. It was of Spanish manufacture,
and remarkable for the length and symmetry of its blade, in consequence of which it received
the sobriquet of Rangaire Riabhach.[B] In his failure to find the keys of the arms depository,
he bethought him to make a confident and enlist the sympathies of an elderly lady, who had
been a member of the family since the days of his childhood. The aged Amazon not only promised
her aid, but highly approved, and even encouraged, the spirit of her youthful relative. Having
access to the keys of the armory, the Rangaire was soon in Alan's hands, and with it he repaired
to the place appointed, "to vindicate his own honour and give satisfaction to his antagonist."

