As Simon strolled pensively through a little silvan glade, surrounded on either side with tall
forest trees, mixed with underwood, a white doe broke from the thicket, closely pursued by
two deer greyhounds, one of which griped her haunch, the other her throat, and pulled her down
within half a furlong of the glover, who was something startled at the suddenness of the incident.
The ear and piercing blast of a horn, and the baying of a slow hound, made Simon aware that
the hunters were close behind, and on the trace of the deer. Hallooing and the sound of men
running through the copse were heard close at hand. A moment's recollection would have satisfied
Simon that his best way was to stand fast, or retire slowly, and leave it to Eachin to acknowledge
his presence or not, as he should see cause. But his desire of shunning the young man had grown
into a kind of instinct, and in the alarm of finding him so near, Simon hid himself in a bush
of hazels mixed with holly, which altogether concealed him. He had hardly done so ere Eachin,
rosy with exercise, dashed from the thicket into the open glade, accompanied by his foster
father, Torquil of the Oak. The latter, with equal strength and address, turned the struggling
hind on her back, and holding her forefeet in his right hand, while he knelt on her body, offered
his skene with the left to the young chief, that he might cut the animal's throat.

"It may not be, Torquil; do thine office, and take the assay thyself. I must not kill the likeness
of my foster--"

This was spoken with a melancholy smile, while a tear at the same time stood in the speaker's
eye. Torquil stared at his young chief for an instant, then drew his sharp wood knife across
the creature's throat with a cut so swift and steady that the weapon reached the backbone.
Then rising on his feet, and again fixing a long piercing look on his chief, he said: "As much
as I have done to that hind would I do to any living man whose ears could have heard my dault
(foster son) so much as name a white doe, and couple the word with Hector's name!"

If Simon had no reason before to keep himself concealed, this speech of Torquil furnished him
with a pressing one.

"It cannot be concealed, father Torquil," said Eachin: "it will all out to the broad day."

"What will out? what will to broad day?" asked Torquil in surprise.

"It is the fatal secret," thought Simon; "and now, if this huge privy councillor cannot keep
silence, I shall be made answerable, I suppose, for Eachin's disgrace having been blown abroad."

Thinking thus anxiously, he availed himself at the same time of his position to see as much
as he could of what passed between the afflicted chieftain and his confidant, impelled by that
spirit of curiosity which prompts us in the most momentous, as well as the most trivial, occasions
of life, and which is sometimes found to exist in company with great personal fear.

As Torquil listened to what Eachin communicated, the young man sank into his arms, and, supporting
himself on his shoulder, concluded his confession by a whisper into his ear. Torquil seemed
to listen with such amazement as to make him incapable of crediting his ears. As if to be certain
that it was Eachin who spoke, he gradually roused the youth from his reclining posture, and,
holding him up in some measure by a grasp on his shoulder, fixed on him an eye that seemed
enlarged, and at the same time turned to stone, by the marvels he listened to. And so wild
waxed the old man's visage after he had heard the murmured communication, that Simon Glover
apprehended he would cast the youth from him as a dishonoured thing, in which case he might
have lighted among the very copse in which he lay concealed, and occasioned his discovery in
a manner equally painful and dangerous. But the passions of Torquil, who entertained for his
foster child even a double portion of that passionate fondness which always attends that connexion
in the Highlands took a different turn.

"I believe it not," he exclaimed; "it is false of thy father's child, false of thy mother's
son, falsest of my dault! I offer my gage to heaven and hell, and will maintain the combat
with him that shall call it true. Thou hast been spellbound by an evil eye, my darling, and
the fainting which you call cowardice is the work of magic. I remember the bat that struck
the torch out on the hour that thou wert born--that hour of grief and of joy. Cheer up, my
beloved. Thou shalt with me to Iona, and the good St. Columbus, with the whole choir of blessed
saints and angels, who ever favoured thy race, shall take from thee the heart of the white
doe and return that which they have stolen from thee."

Eachin listened, with a look as if he would fain have believed the words of the comforter.

"But, Torquil," he said, "supposing this might avail us, the fatal day approaches, and if I
go to the lists, I dread me we shall be shamed."

"It cannot be--it shall not!" said Torquil. "Hell shall not prevail so far: we will steep thy
sword in holy water, place vervain, St. John's Wort, and rowan tree in thy crest. We will surround
thee, I and thy eight brethren: thou shalt be safe as in a castle."

Again the youth helplessly uttered something, which, from the dejected tone in which it was
spoken, Simon could not understand, while Torquil's deep tones in reply fell full and distinct
upon his ear.

"Yes, there may be a chance of withdrawing thee from the conflict. Thou art the youngest who
is to draw blade. Now, hear me, and thou shalt know what it is to have a foster father's love,
and how far it exceeds the love even of kinsmen. The youngest on the indenture of the Clan
Chattan is Ferquhard Day. His father slew mine, and the red blood is seething hot between us;
I looked to Palm Sunday as the term that should cool it. But mark! Thou wouldst have thought
that the blood in the veins of this Ferquhard Day and in mine would not have mingled had they
been put into the same vessel, yet hath he cast the eyes of his love upon my only daughter
Eva, the fairest of our maidens. Think with what feelings I heard the news. It was as if a
wolf from the skirts of Farragon had said, 'Give me thy child in wedlock, Torquil.' My child
thought not thus: she loves Ferquhard, and weeps away her colour and strength in dread of the
approaching battle. Let her give him but a sign of favour, and well I know he will forget kith
and kin, forsake the field, and fly with her to the desert."

"He, the youngest of the champions of Clan Chattan, being absent, I, the youngest of the Clan
Quhele, may be excused from combat" said Eachin, blushing at the mean chance of safety thus
opened to him.

"See now, my chief;" said Torquil, "and judge my thoughts towards thee: others might give thee
their own lives and that of their sons--I sacrifice to thee the honour of my house."

"My friend--my father," repeated the chief, folding Torquil to his bosom, "what a base wretch
am I that have a spirit dastardly enough to avail myself of your sacrifice!"

"Speak not of that. Green woods have ears. Let us back to the camp, and send our gillies for
the venison. Back, dogs, and follow at heel."

The slowhound, or lyme dog, luckily for Simon, had drenched his nose in the blood of the deer,
else he might have found the glover's lair in the thicket; but its more acute properties of
scent being lost, it followed tranquilly with the gazehounds.

When the hunters were out of sight and hearing, the glover arose, greatly relieved by their
departure, and began to move off in the opposite direction as fast as his age permitted. His
first reflection was on the fidelity of the foster father.

