In the birth of this bed the wind and sun, as in all happy gardens, had been duly consulted,
and the wind promised to keep well behind a thick wall of hemlocks that bounded it on the north
and east whenever he was in a cruel mood. The sun, casting his rays about to get the points
of compass, promised that he would fix his eye upon the bed as soon as he had bathed his face
in mist on rising and turned the corner of the house, and then, after watching it until past
noon, turn his back, so no wonder that the bed throve.

Any well-located bit of fairly good ground can be made into a hardy seed bed, provided only
that it is not where frozen water covers it in winter, or in the way of the wind, coming through
a cut or sweeping over the brow of a hill, for flowers are like birds in this respect,--they
can endure cold and many other hardships, but they quail before the blight of wind.

For all gardens of ordinary size a bit of ground ten feet by thirty feet will be sufficient.
If the earth is heavy loam and inclined to cake or mould, add a little sifted sand and a thin
sprinkling of either nitrate of soda or one of the "complete" commercial manures. Barn-yard
manure, unless very well rotted and thoroughly worked under, is apt to develop fungi destructive
to seedlings. This will be sufficient preparation if the soil is in average condition; but
if the earth is old and worn out, it must be either sub-soiled or dug and enriched with barnyard
(not stable) manure to the depth of a foot, or more if yellow loam is not met below that depth.

If the bed is on a slight slope, so much the better. Dig a shallow trench of six or eight inches
around it to carry off the wash. An abrupt hillside is a poor place for such a bed, as the
finer seeds will inevitably be washed out in the heavy rains of early summer. If the surface
soil is lumpy or full of small stones that escape fine raking, it must be shovelled through
a sand-screen, as it is impossible for the most ambitious seed to grow if its first attempt
is met by the pressure of what would be the equivalent of a hundred-ton boulder to a man.

It is to details such as these that success or failure in seed raising is due, and when people
say, "I prefer to buy plants; I am very unlucky with seeds," I smile to myself, and the picture
of something I once observed done by one of the so-called gardeners of my early married days
flits before me.

The man scraped a groove half an inch deep in hard-baked soil, with a pointed stick, scattered
therein the dustlike seeds of the dwarf blue lobelia as thickly as if he had been sprinkling
sugar on some very sour article, then proceeded to trample them into the earth with all the
force of very heavy feet. Of course the seeds thus treated found themselves sealed in a cement
vault, somewhat after the manner of treating victims of the Inquisition, the trickle of moisture
that could possibly reach them from a careless watering only serving to prolong their death
from suffocation.

The woman gardener, I believe, is never so stupid as this; rather is she tempted to kill by
kindness in overfertilizing and overwatering, but too lavish of seed in the sowing she certainly
is, and I speak from the conviction born of my own experience.

When the earth is all ready for the planting, and the sweet, moist odour rises when you open
the seed papers with fingers almost trembling with eagerness, it seems second nature to be
lavish. If a few seeds will produce a few plants, why not the more the merrier? If they come
up too thick, they can be thinned out, you argue, and thick sowing is being on the safe side.
But is it? Quite the contrary. When the seedlings appear, you delay, waiting for them to gain
a good start before jarring their roots by thinning. All of a sudden they make such strides
that when you begin, you are appalled by the task, and after a while cease pulling the individual
plants, but recklessly attack whole "chunks" at once, or else give up in a despair that results
in a row of anæmic, drawn-out starvelings that are certainly not to be called a success. After
having tried and duly weighed the labour connected with both methods, I find it best to sow
thinly and to rely on filling gaps by taking a plant here and there from a crowded spot. For
this reason, as well as that of uniformity also, it is always better to sow seeds of hardy
or annual flowers in a seed bed, and then remove, when half a dozen leaves appear, to the permanent
position in the ornamental part of the garden.

With annuals, of course, there are some exceptions to this rule,--in the case of sweet peas,
nasturtiums, mignonette, portulaca, poppies, and the like, where great quantities are massed.

When you have prepared a hardy seed bed of the dimensions of ten by thirty feet, which will
allow of thirty rows, ten feet long and a foot apart (though you must double the thirty feet
if you intend to cultivate between the rows with any sort of weeding machine, and if you have
room there should be two feet or even three between the rows), draw a garden line taut across
the narrow way of the plot at the top, snap it, and you will have the drill for your first
planting, which you may deepen if the seeds be large.

Before beginning, make a list of your seeds, with the heights marked against each, and put
the tallest at the top of the bed.

"Why bother with this, when they are to be transplanted as soon as they are fist up?" I hear
Mary Penrose exclaim quickly, her head tipped to one side like an inquisitive bird.

Because this seed bed, if well planned, will serve the double purpose of being also the "house
supply bed." If, when the transplanting is done, the seedlings are taken at regular intervals,
instead of all from one spot, those that remain, if not needed as emergency fillers, will bloom
as they stand and be the flowers to be utilized by cutting for house decoration, without depriving
the garden beds of too much of their colour. At the commercial florists, and in many of the
large private gardens, rows upon rows of flowers are grown on the vegetable-garden plan, solely
for gathering for the house, and while those with limited labour and room cannot do this extensively,
they can gain the same end by an intelligent use of their seed beds.

Many men (and more especially many women), many minds, but however much tastes may differ I
think that a list of thirty species of herbaceous perennials should be enough to satisfy the
ambition of an amateur, at least in the climate of the middle and eastern United States. I
have tried many more, and I could be satisfied with a few less. Of course by buying the seeds
in separate colours, as in the single case of pansies, one may use the entire bed for a single
species, but the calculation of size is based upon either a ten-foot row of a mixture of one
species, or else that amount of ground subdivided among several colours.

Of the seeds for the hardy beds themselves, the enticing catalogues offer a bewildering array.
The maker of the new garden would try them all, and thereby often brings on a bit of horticultural
indigestion in which gardener and garden suffer equally, and the resulting plants frequently
perish from pernicious anæmia. Of the number of plants needed, each gardener must be the judge;
also, in spite of many warnings and directions, each one must finally work on the lines of
personally won experience. What is acceptable to the soil and protected by certain shelter
in my garden on one side of hill crest or road may not flourish in a different soil and exposure
only a mile away. One thing is very certain, however,--it is time wasted to plant a hardy garden
of herbaceous plants in shallow soil.

In starting the hardy seed bed it is always safe to plant columbines, Canterbury bells, coreopsis,
larkspur, pinks in variety, foxgloves, hollyhocks, gaillardia, the cheerful evergreen candy-tuft,
bee balm and its cousin wild bergamot, forget-me-nots, evening primroses, and the day-flowering
sundrops, Iceland and Oriental poppies, hybrid phlox, the primrose and cowslips of both English
fields and gardens, that are quite hardy here (at least in the coastwise New England and Middle
states), double feverfew, lupins, honesty, with its profusion of lilac and white bloom and
seed vessels that glisten like mother-of-pearl, the tall snapdragons, decorative alike in garden
or house, fraxinella or gas plant, with its spikes of odd white flowers, and pansies, always
pansies, for the open in spring and autumn, in rich, shady nooks all summer, and even at midwinter
a few tufts left in a sunny spot, at the bottom of a wall by the snowdrops, will surprise you
with round, cheerful faces with the snow coverlet tucked quite under their chins.

It is well to keep a tabulated list of these old-time perennials in the Garden Boke, so that
in the feverish haste and excitement of the planting season a mere glance will be a reminder
of height, colour, and time of bloom. I lend you mine, not as containing anything new or original,
but simply as a suggestion, a hint of what one garden has found good and writ on its honour
list. Newer things and hybrids are now endless, and may be tested and added, one by one, but
it takes at least three seasons of this adorably unmonotonous climate of alternate drought,
damp, open or cold winter, to prove a plant hardy and worthy a place on the honour roll. (See
p. 376.)

Before you plant, sit down by yourself with the packages spread before you and examine the
seeds at your leisure. This is the first uplifting of the veil that you may see into the real
life of a garden, a personal knowledge of the seed that mothers the perfect plant.

It may seem a trivial matter, but it is not so; each seed, be it seemingly but a dust grain,
bears its own type and identity. Also, from its shape, size, and the hardness or thinness of
its covering, you may learn the necessities of its planting and development, for nowhere more
than in the seed is shown the miraculous in nature and the forethought and economy of it all.

The smaller the seed, the greater the yield to a flower, as if to guard against chances of
loss. The stately foxglove springs from a dust grain, and fading holds aloft a seed spike of
prolific invention; the lupin has stout, podded, countable seeds that must of necessity fall
to the ground by force of weight. Also in fingering the seeds, you will know why some are slow
in germinating: these are either hard and gritty, sandlike, like those of the English primrose,
smooth as if coated with varnish, like the pansy, violet, columbine, and many others, or enclosed
in a rigid shell like the iris-hued Japanese morning-glories and other ipomeas. Heart of Nature
is never in a hurry, for him time is not. What matters it if a seed lies one or two years in
the ground?

With us of seed beds and gardens, it is different. We wish present visible growth, and so we
must be willing to lend aid, and first aid to such seeds is to give them a whiff of moist heat
to soften what has become more hard than desirable through man's intervention. For in wild
nature the seed is sown as soon as it ripens, and falls to the care of the ground before the
vitality of the parent plant has quite passed from it. That is why the seed of a hardy plant,
self-sown at midsummer, grows with so much more vigour than kindred seed that has been lodged
in a packet since the previous, season.

