Our cavalry stood so well against the fire from the enemy's guns, that the Prince of Orange
lost all patience, and turning away, exclaimed-- "Oh, the insolent nation!"  He fought until
the last, and retired with the Elector of Hanover only when he saw there was no longer any
hope. After the battle my people brought us a leg of mutton and a bottle of wine, which they
had wisely saved from the previous evening, and we attacked them in good earnest, as may be
believed.

The enemy lost about twenty thousand men, including a large number of officers; our loss was
not more than half that number.  We took all their cannon, eight mortars, many artillery waggons,
a quantity of standards, and some pairs of kettle-drums.  The victory was complete.

Meanwhile, the army which had been sent to Germany under the command of Monseigneur and of
the Marechal de Lorges, did little or nothing.  The Marechal wished to attack Heilbronn, but
Monseigneur was opposed to it; and, to the great regret of the principal generals and of the
troops, the attack was not made.  Monseigneur returned early to Versailles.

At sea we were more active.  The rich merchant fleet of Smyrna was attacked by Tourville; fifty
vessels were burnt or sunk, and twenty-seven taken, all richly freighted.  This campaign cost
the English and Dutch dear.  It is believed their loss was more than thirty millions of ecus.

The season finished with the taking of Charleroy.  On the 16th of September the Marechal de
Villeroy, supported by M. de Luxembourg, laid siege to it, and on the 11th of October, after
a good defence, the place capitulated.  Our loss was very slight.  Charleroy taken, our troops
went into winter-quarters, and I returned to Court, like the rest.  The roads and the posting
service were in great disorder.  Amongst other adventures I met with, I was driven by a deaf
and dumb postillion, who stuck me fast in the mud when near Quesnoy.  At Pont Saint-Maxence
all the horses were retained by M. de Luxembourg.  Fearing I might be left behind, I told the
postmaster that I was governor (which was true), and that I would put him in jail if he did
not give me horses.  I should have been sadly puzzled how to do it; but he was simple enough
to believe me, and gave the horses.  I arrived, however, at last at Paris, and found a change
at the Court, which surprised me.

Daquin--first doctor of the King and creature of Madame de Montespan--had lost nothing of his
credit by her removal, but had never been able to get on well with Madame de Maintenon, who
looked coldly upon all the friends of her predecessor.  Daquin had a son, an abbe, and wearied
the King with solicitations on his behalf.  Madame de Maintenon seized the opportunity, when
the King was more than usually angry with Daquin, to obtain his dismissal: it came upon him
like a thunderbolt.  On the previous evening the King had spoken to him for a long time as
usual, and had never treated him better.  All the Court was astonished also.  Fagon, a very
skilful and learned man, was appointed in his place at the instance of Madame de Maintenon.

Another event excited less surprise than interest.  On Sunday, the 29th of November, the King
learned that La Vauguyon had killed himself in his bed, that morning, by firing twice into
his throat.  I must say a few words about this Vauguyon.  He was one of the pettiest and poorest
gentlemen of France: he was well-made, but very swarthy, with Spanish features, had a charming
voice, played the guitar and lute very well, and was skilled in the arts of gallantry.  By
these talents he had succeeded, in finding favour with Madame de Beauvais, much regarded at
the Court as having been the King's first mistress.  I have seen her--old, blear-eyed, and
half blind,--at the toilette of the Dauphiness of Bavaria, where everybody courted her, because
she was still much considered by the King. Under this protection La Vauguyon succeeded well;
was several times sent as ambassador to foreign countries; was made councillor of state, and
to the scandal of everybody, was raised to the Order in 1688.  Of late years, having no appointments,
he had scarcely the means of living, and endeavoured, but without success, to improve his condition.

Poverty by degrees turned his brain; but a long time passed before it was perceived.  The first
proof that he gave of it was at the house of Madame Pelot, widow of the Chief President of
the Rouen parliament.  Playing at brelan one evening, she offered him a stake, and because
he would not accept it bantered him, and playfully called him a poltroon.  He said nothing,
but waited until all the rest of the company had left the room; and when he found himself alone
with Madame Pelot, he bolted the door, clapped his hat on his head, drove her up against the
chimney, and holding her head between his two fists, said he knew no reason why he should not
pound it into a jelly, in order to teach her to call him poltroon again.  The poor woman was
horribly frightened, and made perpendicular curtseys between his two fists, and all sorts of
excuses. At last he let her go, more dead than alive.  She had the generosity to say no syllable
of this occurrence until after his death; she even allowed him to come to the house as usual,
but took care never to be alone with him.

One day, a long time after this, meeting, in a gallery, at Fontainebleau, M. de Courtenay,
La Vauguyon drew his sword, and compelled the other to draw also, although there had never
been the slightest quarrel between them.  They were soon separated and La Vauguyon immediately
fled to the King, who was just then in his private closet, where nobody ever entered unless
expressly summoned.  But La Vauguyon turned the key, and, in spite of the usher on guard, forced
his way in.  The King in great emotion asked him what was the matter.  La Vauguyon on his knees
said he had been insulted by M. de Courtenay and demanded pardon for having drawn his sword
in the palace.  His Majesty, promising to examine the matter, with great trouble got rid of
La Vauguyon.  As nothing could be made of it, M. de Courtenay declaring he had been insulted
by La Vauguyon and forced to draw his sword, and the other telling the same tale, both were
sent to the Bastille.  After a short imprisonment they were released, and appeared at the Court
as usual.

Another adventure, which succeeded this, threw some light upon the state of affairs.  Going
to Versailles, one day, La Vauguyon met a groom of the Prince de Conde leading a saddled horse,
he stopped the man, descended from his coach, asked whom the horse belonged to, said that the
Prince would not object to his riding it, and leaping upon the animal's back, galloped off.
The groom, all amazed, followed him.  La Vauguyon rode on until he reached the Bastille, descended
there, gave a gratuity to the man, and dismissed him: he then went straight to the governor
of the prison, said he had had the misfortune to displease the King, and begged to be confined
there.  The governor, having no orders to do so, refused; and sent off an express for instructions
how to act.  In reply he was told not to receive La Vauguyon, whom at last, after great difficulty,
he prevailed upon to go away.  This occurrence made great noise.  Yet even afterwards the King
continued to receive La Vauguyon at the Court, and to affect to treat him well, although everybody
else avoided him and was afraid of him.  His poor wife became so affected by these public derangements,
that she retired from Paris, and shortly afterwards died. This completed her husband's madness;
he survived her only a month, dying by his own hand, as I have mentioned.  During the last
two years of his life he carried pistols in his carriage, and frequently pointed them at his
coachman and postilion.  It is certain that without the assistance of M. de Beauvais he would
often have been brought to the last extremities. Beauvais frequently spoke of him to the King;
and it is inconceivable that having raised this man to such a point; and having always shown
him particular kindness, his Majesty should perseveringly have left him to die of hunger and
become mad from misery.

The year finished without any remarkable occurrence.

My mother; who had been much disquieted for me during the campaign, desired strongly that I
should not make another without being married. Although very young, I had no repugnance to
marry, but wished to do so according to my own inclinations.  With a large establishment I
felt very lonely in a country where credit and consideration do more than all the rest.  Without
uncle, aunt, cousins-German, or near relatives, I found myself, I say, extremely solitary.

Among my best friends, as he had been the friend of my father; was the Duc de Beauvilliers.
He had always shown me much affection, and I felt a great desire to unite myself to his family:
My mother approved of my inclination, and gave me an exact account of my estates and possessions.
I carried it to Versailles, and sought a private interview with M. de Beauvilliers.  At eight
o'clock the same evening he received me alone in the cabinet of Madame de Beauvilliers.  After
making my compliments to him, I told him my wish, showed him the state of my affairs, and said
that all I demanded of him was one of his daughters in marriage, and that whatever contract
he thought fit to draw up would be signed by my mother and myself without examination.

The Duke, who had fixed his eyes upon me all this time, replied like a man penetrated with
gratitude by the offer I had made.  He said, that of his eight daughters the eldest was between
fourteen and fifteen years old; the second much deformed, and in no way marriageable; the third
between twelve and thirteen years of age, and the rest were children: the eldest wished to
enter a convent, and had shown herself firm upon that point.  He seemed inclined to make a
difficulty of his want of fortune; but, reminding him of the proposition I had made, I said
that it was not for fortune I had come to him, not even for his daughter, whom I had never
seen; that it was he and Madame de Beauvilliers who had charmed me, and whom I wished to marry!

"But," said he, "if my eldest daughter wishes absolutely to enter a convent?"

"Then," replied I, "I ask the third of you."  To this he objected, on the ground that if he
gave the dowry of the first to the third daughter, and the first afterwards changed her mind
and wished to marry, he should be thrown into an embarrassment.  I replied that I would take
the third as though the first were to be married, and that if she were not, the difference
between what he destined for her and what he destined for the third, should be given to me.
The Duke, raising his eyes to heaven, protested that he had never been combated in this manner,
and that he was obliged to gather up all his forces in order to prevent himself yielding to
me that very instant.

On the next day, at half-past three, I had another interview with M. de Beauvilliers.  With
much tenderness he declined my proposal, resting his refusal upon the inclination his daughter
had displayed for the convent, upon his little wealth, if, the marriage of the third being
made, she should change her mind--and upon other reasons.  He spoke to me with much regret
and friendship, and I to him in the same manner; and we separated, unable any longer to speak
to each other.  Two days after, however, I had another interview with him by his appointment.
I endeavoured to overcome the objections that he made, but all in vain.  He could not give
me his third daughter with the first unmarried, and he would not force her, he said, to change
her wish of retiring from the world.  His words, pious and elevated, augmented my respect for
him, and my desire for the marriage.  In the evening, at the breaking up of the appointment,
I could not prevent myself whispering in his ear that I should never live happily with anybody
but his daughter, and without waiting for a reply hastened away.  I had the next evening, at
eight o'clock, an interview with Madame de Beauvilliers.  I argued with her with such prodigious
ardor that she was surprised, and, although she did not give way, she said she would be inconsolable
for the loss of me, repeating the same tender and flattering things her husband had said before,
and with the same effusion of feeling.

I had yet another interview with M. de Beauvilliers.  He showed even more affection for me
than before, but I could not succeed in putting aside his scruples.  He unbosomed himself afterwards
to one of our friends, and in his bitterness said he could only console himself by hoping that
his children and mine might some day intermarry, and he prayed me to go and pass some days
at Paris, in order to allow him to seek a truce to his grief in my absence.  We both were in
want of it.  I have judged it fitting to give these details, for they afford a key to my exceeding
intimacy with M. de Beauvilliers, which otherwise, considering the difference in our ages,
might appear incomprehensible.

There was nothing left for me but to look out for another marriage.  One soon presented itself,
but as soon fell to the ground; and I went to La Trappe to console myself for the impossibility
of making an alliance with the Duc de Beauvilliers.

La Trappe is a place so celebrated and so well known, and its reformer so famous, that I shall
say but little about it.  I will, however, mention that this abbey is five leagues from La
Ferme-au-Vidame, or Arnold, which is the real distinctive name of this Ferme among so many
other Fetes in France, which have preserved the generic name of what they have been, that is
to say, forts or fortresses ('freitas').  My father had been very intimate with M. de la Trappe,
and had taken me to him.

Although I was very young then, M. de la Trappe charmed me, and the sanctity of the place enchanted
me.  Every year I stayed some days there, sometimes a week at a time, and was never tired of
admiring this great and distinguished man.  He loved me as a son, and I respected him as though
he were any father.  This intimacy, singular at my age, I kept secret from everybody, and only
went to the convent clandestinely.

CHAPTER V

On my return from La Trappe, I became engaged in an affair which made a great noise, and which
had many results for me.

M. de Luxembourg, proud of his successes, and of the applause of the world at his victories,
believed himself sufficiently strong to claim precedence over seventeen dukes, myself among
the number; to step, in fact, from the eighteenth rank, that he held amongst the peers, to
the second.  The following are the names and the order in precedence of the dukes he wished
to supersede:

The Duc d'Elboeuf; the Duc de Montbazon; the Duc de Ventadour; the Duc de Vendome; the Duc
de la Tremoille; the Duc de Sully; the Duc de Chevreuse, the son (minor) of the Duchesse de
Lesdiguieres-Gondi; the Duc de Brissac; Charles d'Albert, called d'Ailly; the Duc de Richelieu;
the Duc de Saint-Simon; the Duc de la Rochefoucauld; the Duc de la Force; the Duc de Valentinois;
the Duc de Rohan; the Duc de Bouillon.

To explain this pretension of M. de Luxembourg, I must give some details respecting him and
the family whose name he bore.  He was the only son of M. de Bouteville, and had married a
descendant of Francois de Luxembourg, Duke of Piney, created Peer of France in 1581.  It was
a peerage which, in default of male successors, went to the female, but this descendant was
not heir to it.  She was the child of a second marriage, and by a first marriage her mother
had given birth to a son and a daughter, who were the inheritors of the peerage, both of whom
were still living.  The son was, however, an idiot, had been declared incapable of attending
to his affairs, and was shut up in Saint Lazare, at Paris.  The daughter had taken the veil,
and was mistress of the novices at the Abbaye-aux-Bois. The peerage had thus, it might almost
be said, become extinct, for it was vested in an idiot, who could not marry (to prevent him
doing so, he had been made a deacon, and he was bound in consequence to remain single), and
in a nun, who was equally bound by her vows to the same state of celibacy.

When M. de Bouteville, for that was his only title then, married, he took the arms and the
name of Luxembourg.  He did more.  By powerful influence--notably that of his patron the Prince
de Conde--he released the idiot deacon from his asylum, and the nun from her convent, and induced
them both to surrender to him their possessions and their titles. This done, he commenced proceedings
at once in order to obtain legal recognition of his right to the dignities he had thus got
possession of. He claimed to be acknowledged Duc de Piney, with all the privileges attached
to that title as a creation of 1581.  Foremost among these privileges was that of taking precedence
of all dukes whose title did not go back so far as that year.  Before any decision was given
either for or against this claim, he was made Duc de Piney by new letters patent, dating from
1662, with a clause which left his pretensions to the title of 1581 by no means affected by
this new creation.  M. de Luxembourg, however, seemed satisfied with what he had obtained,
and was apparently disposed to pursue his claim no further.  He was received as Duke and Peer
in the Parliament, took his seat in the last rank after all the other peers, and allowed his
suit to drop.  Since then he had tried successfully to gain it by stealth, but for several
years nothing more had been heard of it.  Now, however, he recommenced it, and with every intention,
as we soon found, to stop at no intrigue or baseness in order to carry his point.

Nearly everybody was in his favour.  The Court, though not the King, was almost entirely for
him; and the town, dazzled by the splendour of his exploits, was devoted to him.  The young
men regarded him as the protector of their debauches; for, notwithstanding his age, his conduct
was as free as theirs.  He had captivated the troops and the general officers.

In the Parliament he had a staunch supporter in Harlay, the Chief President, who led that great
body at his will, and whose devotion he had acquired to such a degree, that he believed that
to undertake and succeed were only the same things, and that this grand affair would scarcely
cost him a winter to carry.

Let me say something more of this Harlay.

Descended from two celebrated magistrates, Achille d'Harlay and Christopher De Thou, Harlay
imitated their gravity, but carried it to a cynical extent, affected their disinterestedness
and modesty, but dishonoured the first by his conduct, and the second by a refined pride which
he endeavoured without success to conceal.  He piqued himself, above all things, upon his probity
and justice, but the mask soon fell. Between Peter and Paul he maintained the strictest fairness,
but as soon as he perceived interest or favour to be acquired, he sold himself.  This trial
will show him stripped of all disguise.  He was learned in the law; in letters he was second
to no one; he was well acquainted with history, and knew how, above all, to govern his company
with an authority which suffered no reply, and which no other chief president had ever attained.

