From the behavior of the plane it was evident that some curious atmospheric condition was prevailing.
There seemed to be a large hole or pocket in the air, and in spite of his best efforts the
pilot was unable to get on even wing. Finally, fearing to lapse into a tail spin, he planed
down to make a landing. Beneath them was a beautiful green lawn surrounded by groves of trees.
In the middle of this lawn they struck gently, taxied across the smooth turf, and came to a
stop beneath a splendid oak. Quimbleton assisted his wife to get out, and they sat down for
a few minutes' rest under the tree.

"What a heavenly spot!" cried Theodolinda, "I wonder where we are?"

"Somewhere in New Jersey," said her husband. "I don't understand what was the matter with the
air. It didn't act according to Hoyle."

They gazed about them in some surprise at the opulent beauty of the scene. It seemed to be
a kind of park, laid out in lawns, gardens and shrubbery, with groves of old trees here and
there. A little artificial lake twinkled in a hollow.

They happened to be gazing upward when a small round ball of tawny color fell from the tree.
It was a robin. Folded solidly for sleep, he fell unresisting by the flutter of a wing, turning
over and over gently until he struck the turf with the tiniest of soft thuds. He bounced slightly,
rolled a little distance, and settled motionless in the grass.

Quimbleton, amazed, stooped over the fallen bird, supposing it to be dead. Without lifting
it from the ground he withdrew its head from under its wing. The bright eye unlidded and gazed
at him sleepily. Then the bird closed its eye with a certain weary resignation, put its head
back under its wing, and relaxed comfortably in the grass.

Quimbleton was no very acute student of nature, but this seemed very odd to him. And then,
examining the lower limbs of the tree, he uttered an exclamation. He swung himself up into
the oak and shook one of the branches. Five other birds plopped comfortably into the grass
and rested as easily as the first. He examined them one by one. They were all sound asleep.

"Most amazing!" he said. "My dear, we will have to take up nature study. I am really ashamed
of my ignorance. I always thought that owls were the only birds that slept by day."

Theodolinda was looking at the five small bodies. She raised one of them gently, and sniffed
gingerly.

"Virgil," she said solemnly, "this is not mere slumber. These birds are drunk!"

Quimbleton was about to speak when a grasshopper went by like an airplane, zooming in a twenty-foot
leap. A bee sagged along heavily in an irregular zig-zag, and a caterpillar, more agile and
purposeful than any caterpillar they had ever seen, staggered swiftly across a carpet of moss.

The same thought struck them simultaneously, and at that moment Theodolinda noticed a small
white signboard affixed to a tree-trunk in the grove. They ran to it, and saw in neat lettering:

    TO THE PERPETUAL SOUSE, ONE MILE

"Bless me!" cried Quimbleton. "What a stroke of luck! You know old Bleak wrote us when we were
in Rio that he had been installed in his temple, but he didn't say where it was. Let's toddle
up and have a look at him. That's why the bus acted so queerly. No wonder: we were probably
flying in alcohol vapor."

They walked through the grove and emerged upon a lawn that sloped gently upward. At the brow
stood a beautiful little temple of Greek architecture. As they approached they read, carved
into the marble architrave:

    AEDES TEMULENTI PERPETUI
    E PLURIBUS UNUM

The little porch, under the marble columns, was cool and shady. A signboard said: Visiting
Hours, Noon to Midnight. Quimbleton looked at his watch. "It's not noon yet," he said, "but
as we're old friends I dare say he'll be willing to see us."

