Transcriber's Note              |
               |Spelling, punctuation and inconsistencies   |
               |in the original journal have been retained. |
               +--------------------------------------------+

  Scientific and Religious Journal.

  VOL. I.      JANUARY, 1880.      NO. 1.

THE CONFLICT.

The pyramids, temples and palaces of Thebes are monuments of the ancient intellects of our
race. Great thinkers only were capable of giving to the world the Vedas, the Apollo Belvidere
and the Parthenon. The arts and astronomy of Egypt harmonize very poorly with the idea that
modern scientists have all the wisdom and intelligence known in the history of the ages. Among
the wonderful characters of olden times we find Epictetus, Josephus, Strabo, Pliny, Seneca,
Virgil, Aristotle, Plato, Tacitus, Thucydides and Herodotus.

The "Speculation of Evolution of Species" was advocated among the Greeks six hundred years
before the birth of Christ. Two thousand and three hundred years ago the entire system of German
philosophy, along with modern pantheism, was advocated by the Buddhists and Brahmins.

In many very important respects the ancients were in advance of us, especially in the arts,
and we can not boast of superiority in either letters or philosophy. "The gentlemen of modern
materialistic schools do not compare favorably with Plato and Cicero in the elevation and reverence
of their opinions." "Science has certainly made some advancement, but where is the warrant
for the boasting" of sciolists of modern times?

Buddhists taught the most perfect outline of materialism in general. "They believed in a supreme
force, but denied the existence of a Supreme Being. They rejected inquiry into first causes
as unscientific," maintaining that facts alone were to be dealt with in all our investigations.

The Brahmin contemplated the moment when his spirit would flow back into the great "Pantheistic
Being."

Modern materialists say, "We deal only with facts." "We never speculate." The Buddhists, and
the unbelievers who figure so boastingly upon the rostrum in modern times, speak alike. They
say: "As many facts and second causes as you please, but ask no questions about first causes;
that is unscientific." We should ask no questions (?) about the invisible. They have been very
true (?) to their own principles.

There is nothing speculative (?) in the hypothesis that General George Washington was evolved
from a crustacean. There never was a more absurd and wild speculation. It is an old speculation.
Anaximander, who lived six centuries before Christ, advocated the assumption. This has the
genuine ring of the language of modern unbelievers.

Christianity, in its beginning, had to encounter this "speculation" along with the current
literature and philosophy of a civilization which was semi-barbarous and centuries old, but
it triumphed over all, and in the third century it triumphed everywhere. Since that time one
effort has been made upon the part of paganism to regain her former strength in the old world.
Julian made that effort. He tried to revive and establish the supremacy of pagan thought by
the power of the state. Subsequent to this it disappeared in the east, and has only plead for
toleration in the west. But the dark ages came on in all their hideousness, and unbelief developed
itself about the close of the fifteenth century, all over Europe. Paganism, as the result,
was fostered near the bosom of the church. The fifth Lateran Council proclaimed anew the tenet
of the imperishability of the spirit of man. The Padua University adopted a system of materialism
taught in the works of Alexander, of Aphrodisias. A form of pantheism known in the philosophy
of Averroes soon became a center of skepticism.

In the latter part of the seventeenth century modern unbelievers began their assaults. Lord
Herbert and Hobbs in England, Spinoza in Holland, and Bayle in France.

In seventeen hundred and thirteen Anthony Collins published a discourse for the encouragement
of a "clique" called "Free-thinkers." This discourse was thoroughly answered by Bently. In
seventeen hundred and twenty-seven Woolston made an effort to rationalize the miracles out
of existence, interpreting them after the style of Mr. Strauss. Three years later Tyndal got
out his dialogue called "Christianity as old as the Creation." The world received in return
for this "Butler's Analogy of Natural and Revealed Religion." In seventeen hundred and thirty-seven
Morgan's "Moral Philosophy" made its appearance, claiming the sufficiency of the moral law
without any other religion. Warburton's "Divine Legation of Moses" was gotten up in reply to
this philosophy. Thomas Chubb wrote a discourse upon reason, and got out a few other small
tracts denying the utility of prayer, and calling in question the truth of the Scriptures of
both Testaments, in the line of Morgan's philosophy. Bolingbroke, ignorant of the law, "that
the greatest good of the greatest number is to be sought after," even at the expense of the
lives of a few wicked Canaanites, assailed the justice and the benevolence of the Bible God
after Col Ingersoll's style, and boldly avowed that the miracles of the New Testament never
transpired; said, "If they did occur they attested the Revelation." Voltaire lived between
1694 and 1788. He made himself busy in France, while Bolingbroke and Tyndal and Woolston, and
Hume and Morgan were at work in England. Then Didoret, of France, made his appearance upon
the stage as a bold defender of Atheism. Next comes D'Holbach, the leading author of the "Systeme
de la Nature," which came out in 1774. Its object was to strike down the idea of a God, of
an intelligence separate from matter, of free-will, and of immortality. Didoret and others
are accused of assisting in getting this book before the world. Rousseau lived in those times,
and assailed Christianity after the manner of Hume. To all these enemies of Christianity we
must add Condillac, who originated the materialistic philosophy of France.

Gibbon and Paine came into notice after Bolingbroke, and the terrible strife continued. Christianity
was pronounced dead, and a prostitute was chosen to impersonate the "Goddess of Reason" in
the national convention. God being dethroned in France, we should naturally look there for
the "absolute liberty" which unbelievers talk so much about. But how was it? Were the people
without a religious nature? Could they think more freely? Were they in any sense better off?
No, they "followed the prostitute into the church of 'Notre Dame' in a grand procession and
seated her upon the high altar, where she was worshiped by the audience." This was the result
of the labors of all the authors to which I have called your attention. It was a wonderful
gain? In all the public cemeteries this inscription was read: "Death is an eternal sleep."
Cabanis, Destutt de Tracy and Volney close up the seventeenth century, but just about this
time the "Critique of Pure Reason," a work which is the bed-rock of modern metaphysics, makes
its appearance. According to its teachings there are no realities in the world.

The struggle is passed in England. In France all are dull, drowsy. In Germany all are hungry
for the food that satisfies unbelievers. The "Critique of Pure Reason" was followed by the
labors of Fitche. He was succeeded by Schelling, and he by Hegel. All forms of torture must
be added to this account of the conflict if we would get a glimpse of the strength of the Christian
religion and of the religious element in man's nature, from the amount of resistance which
they have defied. Eusebius says, "The swords became dull and shattered" under Diocletian. "The
executioners became weary and had to relieve each other." This would not look as though Christianity
would take the throne in four score years, but it did in spite of all those cruel murders.
Through Constantine it became the state religion of the Roman Empire. Paganism crumbled down
and Christianity triumphed over all the opposition of the old world. The books of the Old and
New Testaments have all been thoroughly tested, over and over in the fiery furnace of criticism,
but Christianity still lives to bless the hearts of widows and orphans; to bless the disappointed
and disconsolate. To-day there are more Christians in the world than ever before.

What has unbelief to give to the people of our age more than it offered centuries ago? Nothing!
Nothing!! Nothing!!!

"There is nothing new under the sun."

THE BIBLE--THE BACKGROUND AND THE PICTURE.

This book is admired and respected above all others for its antiquity, its usefulness, its
conflicts, and character. It has been expressly denominated "The book of books." Its professions
are such that no reasonable man can consistently lay it aside without giving it a careful examination.
The nature of every question determines its claims upon our intelligence. If it professes to
involve only a small interest its claims are not so pressing.

The questions of the Bible hold in their principles the present and eternal interests of our
humanity, and therefore challenge the attention of the world. Thousands of the wisest and best
men of the ages have been intensely interested in its contents. Its great influence and reputation
are evidences of its trustworthiness, and of the consistency and intelligence of those who
give it their attention; for sensible men do not disregard questions of great importance. This
book contains a record of many ugly, dark and wicked deeds, known in the lives of wicked men
and nations, with imperfections and apostacies of individuals in high places. This is what
we must look for in a book of its pretensions. It professes to contain a revelation of God
and his will to man. The ugly, wicked, licentious, and bloody things constitute the background
of the picture, representing man in all his ways. It is also shaded with all there was, and
is, of moral and noble character in the human. God with his attributes, as the true, grand
and glorious Bible picture, shines out through this human background. The justice of God, with
his love, long suffering and tender mercies, his approbation and disapprobation, must in the
very nature of things be revealed in connection with human character as it presents itself
in iniquity and crime, in piety and virtue, both individual and national, in order that the
revelation may be complete, full and perfect. The history of men and nations must also be true,
sufficiently full to call out, in the divine dealings, all there is in the divine character;
otherwise, the revelation would be partial and imperfect.

No physician ever revealed his skill without his patients. No court has ever revealed its justice
without its cases. The doctor's dealings with his patients measure the extent of his known
skill. Allowing that he understands himself and the conditions of his patients perfectly, and
does his whole duty, the revelation of his skill must be perfect, to the full extent of its
connection with the diseases treated. So it is with the revealed justice of the court. This
rule is a necessary law, governing all revelations of character, both human and divine; otherwise
we are left in the dark with reference to the true character of the one who makes the revelation.
Our common sense is such that we are always led astray by improper action, unless our superior
wisdom enables us to know that the action is improper. Improper action upon the part of a doctor
reveals imperfect skill; on the part of the court it reveals imperfect justice, if it is not
an entire want of skill and justice.

No such imperfection belongs to our God; therefore the revelation which he made needs only
to be understood and it will never mislead us. These great principles of common sense are to
be applied in the revelations of God to the nations as the God of nations. Such being the case,
we have a very interesting field of thought before us in the bloody scenes that are known in
the history of nations, as it is given in the Bible. Where is the morality and righteousness
of the wars of which we read? Where is the justice and goodness of God in the bloody wars of
Israel? Where is the righteousness of capital punishment? A great many persons say, in their
ignorance, there is no righteousness in those things. Friend, travel slowly over this ground.
"Take the shoes off thy feet, for it is holy ground." Go into the Bible and look! God is there.
You knew it not. Principles never change. Circumstances change and necessitate changes of law,
but that which was right at any time in the history of our race is right at all times, under
the same circumstances. Is there such a thing as morality carried into public relations? Is
there such a thing as jurisprudence? Yes; jurisprudence is morality carried into public relations
in the following law: "That course of conduct which pertains to the greatest good of the greatest
number is right." This law is of universal application. It belongs to men in all their relations,
both public and private, collectively and individually. In the relation of the State to its
citizens it taxes them for the support of government, it fines, imprisons and puts them to
death for crime. In the relation of nation to nation it imposes tariffs and declares war, filling
history with scenes of blood and woe. The common sense of mankind approves this law, and the
Bible declares it just. Wars were approved of God, when they were for the greatest good of
the greater number. It was upon the same principle that all the divine judgments were administered,
from the destruction of the Antediluvians down to the overthrow of Jerusalem by Titus.

This law is the substratum in moral righteousness, underlying all that is right. Such is its
wonderful latitude and longitude that, in order to carry it out, it sometimes becomes necessary
to tilt a nation into a sea of blood and replace it with a better people. Unbelievers and skeptics
who admit this are guilty of wresting Bible facts from their proper places and testing them
upon the plane of morality, regardless of the laws of jurisprudence.

This erroneous method of reasoning leads the minds of many ignorant and unsuspecting persons
away from the right ways of God. The guilty reasoner justifies taxation, fines, imprisonment
and wars in the history of his own country.

It sometimes seems cruel to carry out this great moral principle of which we are treating;
it is nevertheless right, and men who abuse its facts and turn things upside down are guilty
of opposing the right.

Unbelievers are guilty of selecting from the Bible all that can be tortured out of its place
in the laws of jurisprudence and made to look ugly out of its proper relations, and are continually
holding such things up before the people, turning them into ridicule, and at the same time
they have been through all the bloody scenes of war and justify themselves, wishing to be known
in many instances as Major, General or Colonel. We have some such in our own country. They
seem to have never learned that many things which are good for humanity are very ugly out of
their proper relations. I am glad that God has revealed himself in the jurisprudence of nations,
for the facts given inspire confidence in rulers and officials, strength to judges upon the
bench, and nerve to warriors who are acting with direct reference to the "greatest good of
the greatest number."

A history of God in his dealings with states and nations in order to a perfect revelation of
himself necessitates a history of states and nations so far as it is necessary to make known
the approbation and disapprobation of God in connection with all that may ever enter into national
or state character. Without this we would find states and nations where God did not see fit
to show himself. We must find him wherever we find man, approving or disapproving. This is
just what we do in the Bible. We do it in no other book. But let us ever remember that all
that is wicked had its origin with wicked men and demons, and that the Divine Being, with all
his attributes, appears in the foreground in all his relations to men and their conduct, as
the grand Bible picture shining out through all the darkness and gloom, surrounded with the
virtues and noble deeds of all his worshipers, and that he is building up and throwing down
as his righteous judgment approves or disapproves. This revelation of God is like the sun at
noonday bursting through dark and heavy clouds and blessing the earth with its rays. In making
this revelation, which is related negatively or affirmatively to all there is in human history,
God saw fit to communicate his will through man, and in his own language, except in the gift
of the great charter of the national existence of the children of Israel and the great foundation
truth of the church of God. These he uttered with his own wonderful voice.

Was it reasonable to expect a revelation from God? Is it necessary to the greatest good of
the greatest number? If so, it is a thought at once involving the moral character of God and
necessitating a revelation of himself. In answering these questions intelligently we must look
after the demands for such a communication. Where shall we find them? Answer, in the wants
of our humanity. Here two kinds of light are needed for two pair of eyes in order that we may
be happy in two respects. First, physical light for the physical eyes, in order to the enjoyment
of physical life in a material world. Second, the light of knowledge for the eyes of the understanding,
in order to the enjoyment of spiritual life in a spiritual world. It is universally conceded
that there are means provided in nature to meet man's physical wants and adaptations that manifest
the wisdom that belongs to God; also, that it would have been the work of a demon to create
man with these wants, like so many empty vessels, without any provision to satisfy or fill
them. Without those supplies our suffering would be great and our wretchedness unendurable.
Is there no liability to mental suffering? Are there no spiritual wants consequent upon the
nature of mind?

