For the reasons given at the beginning of this section British Masonry stands rigidly aloof
from all attempts to create an international system of Masonry. The idea was first suggested
at the Masonic Congress of Paris in 1889, convened to celebrate the centenary of the first
French Revolution, but led to nothing very definite until the Congress of Geneva in September
1902, at which the delegates of thirty-four lodges, Grand Lodges, Grand Orients, and Supreme
Councils were present, and a proposal was unanimously adopted "tending towards the creation
of an International Bureau for Masonic Affairs," to which twenty Powers, mostly Europeans,
gave their adherence. Brother Desmons, of the Grand Orient of France, in an after-dinner speech
declared it to have been always "the dream of his life" that "all democracies should meet and
understand one another in such a way as one day to form the Universal Republic."[691]

According to the official report of the proceedings, "the representatives of Belgium, Holland,
France, Germany, England, Spain, Italy, and Switzerland greeted with much feeling the dawn
of this new era." The same Report goes on to observe that--

     It is altogether a mistake ... to believe that Freemasonry does not
     attack the defects of such and such a State, and that consequently
     it remains a stranger to party-strife and the tendencies of the
     times.

And again:

     Freemasonry has imposed upon itself a task--a mission. It is a
     question of nothing less than the rebuilding of society on an
     entirely new basis, which shall be more in accordance with the
     present conditions of the means of communication, of situation, and
     production, as well as of a reform of right, of a complete renewal
     of the principle of existence, especially of the principle of
     community and of the relations of men among one another.

The Report here quoted is, however, inaccurate in one important particular. No English delegates
were present at the Geneva Congress or on any other occasion of the kind. There was a delegate
from Adelaide who spoke a good deal, but the Chairman specifically mentioned England as taking
no part in the movement. Later on, in a Report of the Board of General Purposes to Grand Lodge
on March 2, 1921, a letter from Lord Ampthill, pro Grand Master, appears, declining an invitation
from the Swiss Grand Lodge Alpina to British Freemasons to attend an International Masonic
Congress in Geneva and quoting the following letter from the Grand Secretary as an earlier
precedent for this refusal:

     I am directed to state, in reply to the invitation to attend an
     International Masonic Conference in Switzerland during the coming
     autumn, that the United Grand Lodge of England will be unable to
     send representatives on the occasion. It never participates in a
     Masonic gathering in which are treated as an open question what it
     has always held to be ancient and essential Landmarks of the Craft,
     these being an express belief in the Great Architect of the
     Universe, and an obligatory recognition of the Volume of the Sacred
     Law. Its refusal to remain in fraternal association with such
     Sovereign Jurisdictions as have repudiated or made light of these
     Landmarks has long been upon record, and its resolve in this regard
     remains unshaken.

Lord Ampthill then went on to say:

     A further consequence of certain happenings of the war is to make
     more firm our resolve to keep, as far as in us lies, Freemasonry
     strictly away from participation in politics, either national or
     international. This attitude of aloofness from necessarily
     controversial affairs of State, on which Brethren can legitimately
     and most properly differ, has ever been maintained by our Grand
     Lodge since it was first convened in 1717. Because of this, it held
     aloof from such international conferences as were summoned during
     the war; and never more than now has the necessity for the
     maintenance of this attitude been felt by British Freemasons....
     For these reasons, the invitation to participate in the proposed
     International Conference of Freemasons at Geneva cannot be
     accepted. Such an assembly might be termed informal, but inevitably
     it would be regarded as opening a door to compromise on those
     things which this Grand Lodge has always held to be essentials.
     Such a compromise English Freemasonry will never contemplate. On
     these essentials we take the firm stand we have always done; we
     cannot detract from full recognition of the Great Architect of the
     Universe, and we shall continue to forbid the introduction of
     political discussion into our Lodges.

British Masonry has thus taken a firm stand against the Grand Orient. But it is regrettable
that views so admirably expressed should be confined to masonic correspondence and not made
more apparent to the world in general. On the Continent, outside masonic circles, the difference
between British Masonry and the Grand Orient variety is not sufficiently known, and the reticence
of leading British Masons on this subject has not only played into the hands of the intractable
anti-Masons, who declare all Masonry to be harmful, but has strengthened the position of the
revolutionaries who use Masonry for a subversive purpose. Thus in the Portuguese revolution
of 1920 the Masons of that country who were directing the movement sheltered themselves behind
the good name of England. "How can you accuse the lodges of being murder clubs," they said
to the people, "when Masonry is directed by England and had King Edward for its Grand Master?"

However ludicrous all this may seem to the British public, yet for the honour of our country
such accusations should not remain unrefuted. A witness of the disorders that took place in
Portugal declared to the present writer that if only Grand Lodge of England would have published
a notice in the Continental press disassociating itself from the Grand Orient in general and
from Portuguese Freemasonry in particular, the power of the revolutionaries would have been
immensely weakened and the anti-British and pro-German propaganda then circulating in the country
defeated. But British Freemasonry preferred to maintain an attitude of aloofness, contenting
itself with issuing periodical warnings against the Grand Orient privately to the lodges.

This policy has done much to damage not only the good name of England but of British Masonry
in the eyes of the outside world, and particularly in those of Roman Catholics, which is the
more regrettable since Freemasonry and the Roman Catholic Church are the only two organized
bodies in this country which really exercise discipline over their members and forbid them
to belong to subversive secret societies; hence they provide the two strongest bulwarks against
the occult forces of revolution. For this reason, as we shall see later, they are the two bodies
which are the most feared by the recruiting agents of these societies.

But in the case of Freemasonry the fact is unfortunately too little known to the world in general.
As a singularly broad-minded Jesuit has recently expressed it:

     The anti-clerical and revolutionary activities of Continental
     Freemasonry did not begin when the Grand Orient finally abolished
     God. During a century and more these evil forces had been at work.
     Nevertheless English Masons only shrugged their shoulders and
     looked another way, though the true character of foreign Masonry
     was brought to their notice in such books as that of John Robison,
     Proofs of a Conspiracy against all the Religions and Governments
     of Europe....

     No doubt [the same writer says again] there has been at times a
     deplorable amount of exaggeration among Continental Catholics in
     attributing all the moral and social evils of the world to the
     insidious workings of Freemasonry.... But so long as English
     Freemasons resolutely avert their gaze from the anti-religious and
     anti-social activities of their Continental brethren there can be
     no hope of any better understanding.[692]

It is impossible to deny the truth of these strictures. As has already been pointed out in
the course of this book, British Freemasons have frequently not only ignored Robison's warning
but vilified him as the enemy of Masonry, although he never attacked their Order but only the
perverted systems of the Continent; too often also they have exonerated the most dangerous
secret societies, notably the Illuminati, because, apparently from a mistaken sense of loyalty,
they conceive it their duty to defend any association of a masonic character. This is simply
suicidal. British Masonry has no bitterer enemies than the secret societies working for subversion,
which, from the Illuminati onwards, have always regarded honest Masonry with contempt and used
its doctrines for an ulterior purpose.

It is easy to see how these doctrines may be perverted to an end directly opposed to that which
British Masons have in view. Thus, for example, the idea of the brotherhood of man in the sense
of love for all humanity is the essence of Christianity--"Be kindly affectioned one to another
with brotherly love; in honour preferring one another." In adopting "brotherly love" as a part
of their sacred trilogy British Masons adopt an entirely Christian standpoint. But if by the
brotherhood of man is meant that men of every race are equally related and that therefore one
owes the same duty to foreigners as to one's fellow-countrymen it is obvious that all national
feeling must vanish. The British Freemason does not, of course, interpret the theory in this
manner; he cannot seriously regard himself as the brother of the Bambute pygmy or the Polynesian
cannibal, thus he uses the term merely in a vague and theoretical sense.

What indeed does the word "brother" literally mean? If we consult the dictionary we shall see
it defined as "a male born of the same parents; anyone closely united with or resembling one
another; associated in common interests, occupation," etc. It is therefore obviously absurd
to say that men of such different races as those referred to are brothers; they are not born
of the same kind of parents, they are not united in their aims, they do not remotely resemble
one another, and they are not associated in common interests and occupations. Though these
happen to be extreme cases, there are nevertheless essential differences between men of the
same zone and climate. The Englishman and the Frenchman are not brothers because they do not
see life from the same point of view, but that is no reason why they should not be close allies.

The brotherhood of man, if taken literally, is therefore a misleading term, nor is such a relationship
necessary to the peace of the world. Cain and Abel were not better friends, for being brothers.
David and Jonathan, on the other hand, were not brothers but devoted friends. In striving after
universal brotherhood in a literal sense, Freemasons are therefore pursuing a chimera.

The most dangerous fallacy to which democracy, under the influence of Illuminized Freemasonry,
has succumbed is that peace between nations can be brought about by means of Internationalism,
that is to say, by the destruction of national feeling. Yet a man is not more likely to live
at peace with his neighbours because he is devoid of natural affection; on the contrary, the
good brother, the devoted father, is most likely to become the faithful friend. Permanent peace
between nations will probably never be ensured, but the only basis on which such a situation
can conceivably be established is the basis of sane Nationalism--an understanding between the
patriotic and virile elements in every country which, because they value their own liberties
and revere their own traditions, are able to respect those of other nations. Internationalism
is an understanding between the decadent elements in each country--the conscientious objectors,
the drawing-room Socialists, the visionaries--who shirk the realities of life and, as the Socialist
Karl Kautsky in a description of Idealists has admirably expressed it, "see only differences
of opinion and misapprehension where there are actually irreconcilable antagonisms." This is
why at times of crisis Idealists are of all men the most dangerous and Pacifists the great
promoters of wars. Understanding between nations is wholly desirable, but the destruction of
the national spirit everywhere can only lead to the weakening of all countries where this process
takes place and the triumph of the nations who refuse to accept the same principle.

It will perhaps be answered that Freemasons do not believe in the doctrine of brotherhood between
all men, but only between Masons of all races. But this may lead no less to national disintegration
if it creates a nation within each nation, an international fraternity independent of the countries
to which its members belong. The logical outcome of this may be that a man will refuse to fight
for his country against his brother Masons--it is what has happened in France. The Grand Orient
was before the recent war the great breeding-ground of anti-patriotism, where all schemes for
national defence were discouraged. Before 1870 the same thing took place, and it was in the
masonic lodges that Germany found her most valuable allies.

In the same way the doctrine of the perfectibility of human nature lends itself to perversion.
Nothing could be more desirable than that man should strive after perfection. Did not Christ
enjoin His disciples: "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in Heaven is perfect"?
Man is therefore acting in accordance with Christian principles in seeking after divine perfection.
But when he comes to believe that he has already attained it he makes of himself a god. "If
I justify myself," said Job, "mine own mouth shall condemn me; if I say I am perfect, it shall
also prove me perverse." And St. John: "If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and
the truth is not in us." More than this, if we seek perfection in others we deceive ourselves
equally and make gods of men. This is precisely the conclusion at which perverted Freemasonry
and the forms of Socialism deriving from it arrive. Human nature, they say, is itself divine;
what need then for other divinities? The Catholic Church is consequently quite right in declaring
that the doctrine of the perfectibility of human nature leads to the deification of humanity
in that it puts humanity in the place of God. The Grand Orient, which definitely accepts this
doctrine, has therefore logically erased the name of the Great Architect of the Universe from
its ritual and has become an association of Freethinkers and Atheists.

Is it necessary to point out the folly as well as the crime of this delusion--the ludicrous
inconsequence of men who divinize humanity yet revile what they call "society"? All the evils
of the world, they declare, are not to be found in nature but in "man-made laws," in the institutions
of "society." Yet what is society but the outcome of human wills, of human aspirations? Society
may be, and no doubt is, in need of reformation, but are not its imperfections the creation
of imperfect beings? It is true that to-day the world is in a state of chaos, industrial chaos,
political chaos, social chaos, religious chaos. Everywhere men are losing faith in the causes
they are supposed to represent; authority questions its own right to govern, democracy is rent
with divisions, the ruling classes are abdicating in favour of unscrupulous demagogues, the
ministers of religion barter their faith for popularity.

And what has brought the world to this pass? Humanity! Humanity, that all-wise, all-virtuous
abstraction that needs no light from Heaven. Humanity that was to take the place of God! If
ever there was a moment in the history of the world when the futility of this pretension should
be apparent it is the present moment. All the ills, all the confusion, what are they but the
outcome of human error and of human passions? It is not Capitalism that has failed, nor yet
Democracy, nor yet even Socialism as a principle, it is not monarchy that has broken down,
nor Republicanism, nor again religion; it is humanity that has broken down. The ills of Capitalism
arise from the egoism of individual capitalists; Socialism has failed because, as Robert Owen
discovered, the idle, the quarrelsome, the selfish have prevented its success. If men were
perfect, Socialism might succeed, but so might any other system. A perfect capitalist would
love his employee as himself, just as a perfect Socialist would be willing to work for the
common good. It is the imperfections of human nature that prevent, and will always prevent,
any system from being perfect. There will never be a Millennium of man's making. Only the application
of Christian principles to human conduct can bring about a better order of things.

Grand Orient Masonry, in deifying human nature, thus not only builds upon the sand, but by
its rejection of all religion takes away the sole hope of human progress. Meanwhile, by the
support it lends to Socialism it encourages the class war instead of the brotherhood between
men of all ranks and conditions which it professes to advocate. British Freemasonry, on the
other hand, whilst not interpreting brotherhood in a political sense, nevertheless contributes
to social peace. At the annual conference of the Labour Party in 1923 a proposal was made by
the extreme section that "any person who is a Free mason should be excluded from any kind of
office," it being suggested that "in cases where an understanding has been reached between
Trade Union leaders and employers, thus preventing or limiting industrial trouble, the secret
has been the bond of Freemasonry."[693] Whether this was the case or not, British Masonry,
by taking its stand on patriotism and respect for religion, necessarily tends to unite men
of all classes and therefore offers a formidable bulwark against the forces of revolution.
Any attacks on British Masonry as at present constituted and directed are therefore absolutely
opposed to the interests of the country. But at the same time it behoves Masons to beware of
the insidious attempts that are being made by irregular secret societies to infiltrate the
Craft and pervert its true principles. The present satisfactory condition of Freemasonry in
England is owing not only to its established statutes, but to the character of the men who
control it--men who are not, as in eighteenth-century France, mere figureheads, but the real
directors of the Order. Should the control ever pass into the wrong hands and the agents of
secret societies succeed in capturing a number of the lodges, this great stabilizing force
might become a gigantic engine of destruction. How insidiously these efforts are being made
we shall see in the next chapter.

12

SECRET SOCIETIES IN ENGLAND

We have seen that from the Illuminati onwards subversive societies have always sought recruits
amongst orthodox Freemasons. The reason for this is obvious: not only do the doctrines of Freemasonry
lend themselves to perversion, but the training provided in the Lodges makes an admirable preparation
for initiation into other secret systems. The man who has learnt to maintain silence even on
what may appear to him as trivialities, who is willing to submit to mystification, to ask no
questions, and to recognize the authority of superiors whom he is in no way legally obliged
to obey, who has, moreover, become imbued with the esprit de corps which binds him to his fellow-members
in a common cause, is naturally a better subject for the secret society adept than the free
lance who is liable to assert his independence at any moment. Perhaps the most important factor,
however, is the nature of the masonic oaths. These terrible penalties, which many Freemasons
themselves regret as a survival of barbarism and which have in fact been abolished in the higher
degrees, have done much to create prejudice against Freemasonry, whilst at the same time they
provide an additional incentive to outside intriguers. In the opinion of M. Copin Albancelli,
the abolition of the oath would go far to prevent penetration of British Masonry by the secret
societies.

Now, by their obligations British Freemasons are forbidden to join these irregular societies,
not only because their principles are in conflict with those of orthodox Masonry, but because
in most cases they admit women. According to the ruling of Grand Lodge, "any member working
under the English Jurisdiction ... violates his Obligation by being present at or assisting
in assemblies professing to be Masonic which are attended by women." Warnings to this effect
have been frequently given in the Lodges; on September 3, 1919, the Board of General Purposes
issued the following report:

     The Board's attention is being increasingly drawn to sedulous
     endeavours which are being made by certain bodies unrecognized as
     Masonic by the United Grand Lodge of England, to induce Freemasons
     to join in their assemblies. As all such bodies which admit women
     to membership are clandestine and irregular, it is necessary to
     caution Brethren against being inadvertently led to violate their
     Obligation by becoming members of them or attending their meetings.
     Grand Lodge, nine years since, approved the action of the Board in
     suspending from all Masonic rights and privileges two Brethren who
     had contumaciously failed to explain the grave Masonic irregularity
     to which attention is now again called; and it is earnestly hoped
     that no occasion will arise for having again to institute
     disciplinary proceedings of a like kind.

The idea of women Masons is, of course, not a new one. As early as 1730 lodges for women are
said to have existed in France, and towards the end of the century several excellent women,
such as the Duchesse de Bourbon and the Princesse de Lamballe, played a leading part in the
Order. But this Maçonnerie d'Adoption, as it was called, retained a purely convivial character;
a sham ceremonial, with symbols, pass words, and a ritual, was devised as a consolation to
the members for their exclusion from the real lodges. These mummeries were, as Ragon observes,
"only the pretexts for assemblies; the real objects were the banquet and the ball, which were
their inevitable accompaniments."[694]

But this precedent, inaugurated as a society pastime and accompanied by all the frivolity of
the age, paved the way for Weishaupt's two classes of women members, who, although never initiated
into the secrets of the Order, were to act as useful tools "directed by men without knowing
it." For this purpose they were to be divided into two classes, the "virtuous" to play the
part of figureheads or decoys, and the "freer-hearted," who were to carry out the real designs
of the Order.

The same plan was adopted nearly a hundred years later by Weishaupt's
disciple Bakunin, who, however, did admit women as actual initiates into
his secret society, the Alliance Sociale Démocratique, but, like
Weishaupt, divided them into classes. We ought to consider them as the most
     precious of our treasures, without whose help we can do
     nothing.[695]

The first and only woman to be admitted into real Masonry, if such a term can be applied to
so heterogeneous a system, was Maria Deraismes, an ardent French Feminist celebrated for her
political speeches and electioneering campaigns in the district of Pontoise and for twenty-five
years the acknowledged leader of the anti-clerical and Feminist party.[696] In 1882 Maria Deraismes
was initiated into Freemasonry by the members of the Lodge Les Libres Penseurs, deriving from
the Grande Loge Symbolique Écossaise and situated at Pecq in the Department of Seine-et-Oise.
The proceeding being, however, entirely unconstitutional, Maria Deraismes's initiation was
declared by the Grande Loge to be null and void and the Lodge Les Libres Penseurs was disgraced.[697]
But some years afterwards Dr. George Martin, an enthusiastic advocate of votes for women, collaborated
with Maria Deraismes in founding the Maçonnerie Mixte at the first lodge of the Order named
"Le Droit Humain." The Suprême Conseil Universel Mixte was founded in 1899.

The Maçonnerie Mixte was political and in no way theosophical or occult, and its programme,
like that of the Grand Orient, was Utopian Socialism, whilst by its insistence on the supremacy
of reason it definitely proclaimed its antagonism to all revealed religion. Thus in the involved
language of Dr. George Martin himself:

     The Ordre Maçonnique Mixte Internationale is the first mixed,
     philosophic, progressive, and philanthropic Masonic Power to be
     organized and constituted in the world, placed above all the
     prooccupations of the philosophical or religious ideas which may be
     professed by those who ask to become members.... The Order wishes
     to interest itself principally in the vital interests of the human
     being on earth; it wishes above all to study in its Temples the
     means for realizing Peace between all nations and social Justice
     which will enable all human beings to enjoy during their lives the
     greatest possible sum of moral felicity and of material
     well-being.... Claiming no divine revelation and loudly affirming
     that it is only an emanation of human reason, this fraternal
     institution is not dogmatic, it is rationalist.[698]

Into this materialist and political club, erected under the guise of Freemasonry, entered Annie
Besant with all the strange conglomeration of Eastern doctrines now known as Theosophy.

Theosophy

Before entering on this question it is necessary to make my own position clear. Although I
should much prefer not to introduce a personal note into the discussion, I feel that nothing
I say will carry any weight if it appears to be an expression of opinion by one who has never
considered religious doctrines from anything but the orthodox Christian point of view. I should
explain, then, that I have known Theosophists from my early youth, that I have travelled in
India, Ceylon, Burma, and Japan and seen much to admire in the great religions of the East.
I do not believe that God has revealed Himself to one portion of mankind alone and that during
only the last 1,900 years of the world's history; I do not accept the doctrine that all the
millions of human beings who have never heard of Christ are plunged in spiritual darkness;
I believe that behind all religions founded on a law of righteousness there lies a divine and
central truth, that Ikhnaton, Moses and Isaiah, Socrates and Epictetus, Marcus Aurelius, Buddha,
Zoroaster, and Mohammed were all teachers who interpreted to men the aspect of the divine as
it had been vouchsafed to them and which in harmony with the supreme revelation given to man
by Jesus Christ.

This conception of an affinity between all great religious faiths was beautifully expressed
by an old Mohammedan to a friend of the present writer with whom he stood watching a Hindu
procession pass through an Indian village. In answer to the Englishman's enquiry, "What do
you think of this?" the Mohammedan replied:

     "Ah, sahib, we cannot tell. We know of three roads up the hill of
     endeavour to the gates of Paradise--the way of Mousa [Moses], the
     way of Issa [Jesus], and the way of Mahmoud, and there may be other
     roads of which you and I know nothing. I was born in the way of
     Mahmoud, and I believe it to be the best and the easiest to follow,
     and you were born in the way of Issa. And of this I am very sure:
     that if you will follow your guide on your road and I follow my
     guide on my road, when we have climbed the hill of endeavour, we
     shall salute one another again at the gates of Paradise."

If, then, in the following pages I attempt to show the errors of Theosophy, it is not because
I do not recognize that there is much that is good and beautiful in the ancient religions from
which it professes to derive.

But what is Theosophy? The word, as we have already seen, was used in the eighteenth century
to denote the theory of the Martinists; it was known two centuries earlier when Haselmeyer
in 1612 wrote of "the laudable Fraternity of the Theosophists of the Rosy Cross." According
to Colonel Olcott, who with Madame Blavatsky founded the modern Theosophical Society in New
York in 1875, the word was discovered by one of the members "in turning over the leaves of
a Dictionary" and forthwith unanimously adopted.[699] Madame Blavatsky had arrived in America
two years earlier, before which date she professed to have been initiated into certain esoteric
doctrines in Thibet. Monsieur Guénon, who writes with inside knowledge of the movement, indicates,
however, the existence of concealed superiors on the Continent of Europe by whom she was in
reality directed.

     What is very significant ... is that Madame Blavatsky in 1875 wrote
     this: "I have been sent from Paris to America in order to verify
     phenomena and their reality and to show the deception of the
     Spiritualist theory." Sent by whom? Later she will say: by the
     "Mahatmas"; but then there was no question of them, and besides it
     was in Paris that she received her mission, and not in India or in
     Thibet.[700]

Elsewhere Monsieur Guénon observes that it is very doubtful whether Madame Blavatsky was ever
in Thibet at all. These obvious attempts at concealment lead Monsieur Guénon therefore to the
conclusion that in the background of Theosophy there existed a mysterious centre of direction,
that Madame Blavatsky was simply "an instrument in the hands of individuals or occult groups
sheltering behind her personality," and that "those who believe she invented everything, that
she did everything by herself and on her own initiative, are as much mistaken as those who,
on the contrary, believe her affirmations concerning her relations with the pretended Mahatmas."[701]

There is some reason to believe that the people under whom Madame Blavatsky was working at
this date in Paris were Serapis Bey and Tuiti Bey, who belonged to "the Egyptian Brothers."
This might answer M. Guénon's question: "By whom was she sent to America?" But another passage
from Madame Blavatsky's writings, on the person of Christ, that M. Guénon quotes later, indicates
a further source of inspiration: "For me, Jesus Christ, that is to say the Man-God of the Christians,
copy of the Avatars of all countries, of the Hindu Chrishna as of the Egyptian Horus, was never
a historical personage." Hence the story of His life was merely an allegory founded on the
existence of "a personage named Jehoshua born at Lud." But elsewhere she asserted that Jesus
may have lived during the Christian era or a century earlier "as the Sepher Toldoth Jehoshua
indicates" (my italics). And Madame Blavatsky went on to say of the savants who deny the historical
value of this legend, that they--

     either lie or talk nonsense. It is our Masters who affirm it [my
     italics]. If the history of Jehoshua or Jesus Ben Pandera is false,
     then the whole of the Talmud, the whole of the Jewish canon law, is
     false. It was the disciple of Jehoshua Ben Parachia, the fifth
     President of the Sanhedrim since Ezra, who re-wrote the Bible....
     This story is much truer than that of the New Testament, of which
     history does not say a word.[702]

Who were the Masters whose authority Madame Blavatsky here invokes? Clearly not the Trans-Himalayan
Brotherhood to whom she habitually refers by this term, and who can certainly not be suspected
of affirming the authenticity of the Toldoth Yeshu. It is evident, then, that there were other
"Masters" from whom Madame Blavatsky received this teaching, and that those other masters were
Cabalists.

The same Judaic influence appears more strongly in a book published by the Theosophical Society
in 1903, where the Talmud and the Toledot Yeshu are quoted at great length and the Christians
are derided for resenting the attacks on their faith contained in these books, whilst the Jews
are represented as innocent, persecuted victims. One passage will suffice to give an idea of
the author's point of view:

     The Christ [said the mystics] was born "of a virgin"; the unwitting
     believer in Jesus as the historical Messiah in the exclusive
     Jewish sense, and in his being the Son of God, nay God Himself,
     in course of time asserted that Mary was that virgin; whereupon
     Rabbinical logic, which in this case was simple and common logic,
     met this extravagance by the natural retort that, seeing that his
     paternity was unacknowledged, Jesus was therefore illegitimate, a
     bastard [mamzer].[703]

It is obviously, then, less from Thibetan Mahatmas, Hindu Swamis, Sikh Gurus, or Egyptian Brothers
than from Jewish Cabalists that these leaders of Theosophy have borrowed their ideas on Jesus
Christ. As the Jewish writer Adolphe Franck has truly observed: "Dès qu'il est question de
théosophie, on est sûr de voir apparaître la Kabbale."[704] And he goes on to show the direct
influence of Cabalism on the modern Theosophical Society.

Mrs. Besant, without endorsing the worst blasphemies of the Toledot Yeshu, nevertheless reflected
this and other Judaic traditions in her book Esoteric Christianity, where she related that
Jesus was brought up amongst the Essenes, and that later He went to Egypt, where He became
an initiate of the great esoteric lodge--that is to say, the Great White Lodge--from which
all great religions derive. It will be seen that this is only a version of the old story of
the Talmudists and Cabalists, perpetuated by the Gnostics, the Rosicrucians, and the nineteenth-century
Ordre du Temple.[705] But according to one of Mrs. Besant's Theosophical antagonists, her doctrine
"rests on a perpetual equivocation," and whilst allowing the English public to believe that
when she spoke of the coming Christ she referred to the Christ of the Gospels, she stated to
her intimates what Mr. Leadbeater taught in his book The Inner Life, namely, that the Christ
of the Gospels never existed, but was an invention of the monks of the second century.[706]
It should be understood, however, that in the language of the Theosophists, led by Mrs. Besant
and Mr. Leadbeater, Jesus and "the Christ" are two separate and distinct individualities, and
that when they now speak of "the Christ" they refer to someone living in a bungalow in the
Himalayas with whom Mr. Leadbeater has interviews to arrange about his approaching advent.[707]
Portraits of this person have been distributed amongst the members of "The Star in the East,"
an Order founded at Benares in 1911 by Mr. Leadbeater and J. Krishnamurti for the purpose of
preparing the world for the coming of the Great Teacher.

But it is time to return to the alliance between Theosophy and the Maçonnerie Mixte. Whether
Mrs. Besant, who had begun her career as a Freethinker, retained some lingering belief in her
earlier creed at the time she entered into relations with the Order, or whether she saw in
this materialistic society a valuable concrete organization for the dissemination of her new
esoteric theories, it is impossible to know. At any rate, she rose rapidly through the succeeding
degrees and became before long Vice President of the Suprême Conseil, which appointed her its
national delegate to Great Britain. It was in this capacity that she founded the English branch
of the Order under the name of Co-Masonry (that is, admitting both sexes) at the Lodge "Human
Duty" in London, which was consecrated on September 26, 1902, and later founded another lodge
at Adyar in India, named "The Rising Sun." The number of lodges on the Grand Roll of Co-Masonry,
including those abroad, is now said to be no less than 442.

Co-Masonry thus receives a two-fold direction, for whilst remaining in constant correspondence
with the Suprême Conseil Universel Mixte, situated at 5 Rue Jules-Breton in Paris and presided
over by the Grand Master Piron, with Madame Amélie Gédalje, thirty-third degree, as Grand Secretary-General,
it receives further instructions from "the V∴ Ill∴ Bro∴ Annie Besant 33°" at Adyar. In order
not to shock the susceptibilities of English adepts who might be repelled by the rationalist
tendencies of the Maçonnerie Mixte, Mrs. Besant has, however, borrowed the formulas of British
Masonry together with its custom of placing the V.S.L. on the table in the lodges. These conflicting
doctrines are blended in an amusing manner on the certificates of the Order, where at the top
we find the French motto and initials:

               Liberté Égalité Fraternité
                    À∴ L∴ G∴ D∴ L'H∴
            (i.e. à la gloire de l'Humanité)

and below, for the benefit of English members, the initials of the British masonic device,
that does not of course appear on the diplomas of the French Order, which, like the Grand Orient,
has rejected the Great Architect:

                  T∴ T∴ G∴ O∴ T∴ G∴ A∴ O∴ T∴ U∴
       (To the glory of the Great Architect of the Universe).

Our Co-Masons therefore enjoy the advantage of being able to choose whether they shall render
glory to God or to Humanity. That the two devices are somewhat incompatible does not appear
to strike the English initiates, nor do they probably realize the imposture practised on them
by the further wording of the certificate, which, after announcing in imposing capitals "To
all Masons dispersed over both Hemispheres, Greeting," goes on to say "We therefore recommend
him (or her) as such to all Freemasons of the Globe, requesting them to recognize him (or her)
in all the rights and privileges attached to this Degree, as we will do to all presenting themselves
under similar circumstances."

Now, any British Mason will see at a glance that all this is a false pretension. No order of
Masonry can recommend its members for rights and privileges to "all the Freemasons of the world,"
for the simple reason that, as has been said, there is no such thing as "Universal Masonry,"
so that even Grand Lodge of England--the most important Lodge in the world--could not, if it
would, accord the right of entry for its members into Continental lodges. As an English Mason
recently expressed it:

     The impression among non-Masons generally appears to be that a
     British or Irish member of the Craft is able to enter a masonic
     lodge in any part of the world and take part in its deliberations
     and proceedings. To this belief an unqualified denial may at once
     be given. Nor may a member of a lodge under any Jurisdiction not
     in communion with the Grand Lodges of the United Kingdom be
     received as a visitor or as a Joining Member in any subsidiary
     lodge of the Grand Lodges of England, Ireland, or Scotland.[708]

But for Co-Masonry to make this claim is even more ridiculous, since at the time when the above
quoted diploma was drawn up Co-Masonry and its parent, the Maçonnerie Mixte, were not recognized
by any other order of Masonry except the "Droit Humain," and it is not only unrecognized but
utterly repudiated by Grand Lodge of England. The British Mason, in fact, does not recognize
the Co-Mason as a Mason at all, and would violate his obligations by discussing masonic secrets
with him or her, so that there is no manner in which the Co-Mason could be accorded masonic
rights and privileges by British Masons. In order, further, to keep up the illusion in the
minds of its members that they are genuine Masons, Co-Masonry, in its quarterly organ, The
Co-Mason, is careful to include masonic news relating to British Masonry as if it formed one
and the same order.

With regard to the Grand Orient, an equally tortuous policy was pursued. As we have already
seen, the Grande Loge disgraced the lodge that had admitted Maria Deraismes and did not officially
recognize the Maçonnerie Mixte. The ritual adopted by the latter Order was, however, not that
of British Masonry, and in most Co-Masonic Lodges the ritual employed contains variations derived
from the Grand Orient[709]; indeed the Grand Orient character of Co-Masonry has always been
generally recognized in masonic circles. This being so, I pointed out in World Revolution that
Co-Masonry derives from the Grand Orient, but I received the following protest from a woman
Co-Mason:

     Are you aware that for twenty years the Grand Orient has refused to
     recognize it [Co-Masonry] as a legitimate body, just as the English
     Orthodox Masons do now? Also, we are distinctly told before joining
     that we shall not be recognized by that body. Also, we have nothing
     to do with Illuminati, or with Germany. As the Grand Orient have
     eliminated the Deity, it is rather a dreadful thing to a Mason to
     be connected in any way with that Order, and I cannot imagine a
     worse thing could be said about us.

This letter was dated March 6, 1922, and on the 19th of the preceding month of February an
alliance between the Grand Orient and Co-Masonry had been finally celebrated at the Grand Temple
of the Droit Humain in Paris! We find a report of this ceremony in the Co-Mason for the following
April. It is evident, therefore, that members who were likely to be repelled by the idea of
connexion with the Grand Orient were assured that no such connexion existed. But when this
covert liaison developed into official recognition--although this did not include the right
of entry to the lodges of the Grand Orient for women members--the triumphant manner in which
the great event was announced in the Co-Mason suggests that the majority of members were likely
to feel nothing but satisfaction at association with the Order that "had eliminated the Deity."
It is true that a few members protested, and by this time Co-Masonry was too completely under
the control of Mrs. Besant for any faction to question her dictates. Moreover, the opposition
had been weakened by a schism which took place in the Order in 1908, when a number of members
who objected to the introduction of Eastern occultism into Masonry and likewise disapproved
of the Grand Orient, formed themselves into a separate body under Mrs. Halsey and Dr. Geikie
Cobb, working only the Craft Degrees according to the Grand Lodge of England.

It has been shown by this brief résumé that Co-Masonry is a hybrid system deriving from two
conflicting sources--the political and rationalist doctrines of the Maçonnerie Mixte and the
Eastern occultism of Madame Blavatsky and Mrs. Besant.

As a professing Buddhist, Madame Blavatsky consistently dissociated herself from any schemes
of material welfare. Thus in the early Constitution of the Theosophical Society it is stated:

     "The Society repudiates all interference on its behalf with the
     Governmental relations of any nation or community, confining its
     attention exclusively to the matters set forth in the present
     document."[710]

These matters relate to the study of Occult Sciences. Again Madame Blavatsky herself wrote
in the Theosophist:

     Unconcerned about politics: hostile to the insane dreams of
     Socialism and Communism, which it abhors--as both are but disguised
     conspiracies of brutal force and selfishness against honest
     labour; the Society cares but little about the outward human
     management of the material world. The whole of its aspirations are
     directed towards the occult truths of the visible and invisible
     worlds.[711]

It will be seen that this declaration is diametrically opposed to that of the Maçonnerie Mixte.
Nevertheless, Madame Blavatsky so far departed from her purely occult programme after her arrival
in India in 1879 as to reconstruct the society on the basis of "Universal Brotherhood." This
idea was completely absent from her first scheme; "the Brotherhood plank in the Society's future
platform," wrote her coadjutor Colonel Olcott, "was not thought of."[712] It was over this
plank, however, that Mrs. Besant was able to walk to the Supreme Council of the Maçonnerie
Mixte, and adding Liberty and Equality to the principle of Fraternity to establish Co-Masonry
on a definitely political basis as a preparation for the Socialist doctrines her teacher had
"abhorred."

In the matter of esoteric doctrines Mrs. Besant again departed from the path laid down by Madame
Blavatsky, whose aim had been to rehabilitate Buddhism in India, representing the teachings
of Gautama Buddha as an advance on Hinduism.[713] Mrs. Besant, however, came to regard the
doctrines of the Brahmins as the purer faith. Yet it was neither Buddhism nor Hinduism in a
pure form that she introduced to the Co-Masons of the West, but an occult system of her own
devising, wherein Mahatmas, Swamis, and Gurus were incongruously mingled with the charlatans
of eighteenth-century France. Thus in the Co-Masonic lodges we find "the King" inscribed over
the Grand Master's chair in the East, in the North the empty chair of "the Master"--to which,
until recently, all members were required to bow in passing--and over it a picture, veiled
in some lodges, of the same mysterious personage. Should the neophyte enquire, "Who is the
King?" he may be told that he is the King who is to come from India--whether he is identical
with the young Hindu Krishnamurti adopted by Mrs. Besant in 1909 is not clear--whilst the question
"Who is the Master?" will probably be met with the reply that he is "the Master of all true
Freemasons throughout the world," which the enquirer takes to mean the head of the religion
to which he happens to belong--Christ, Mohammed, or another. But in the third degree the astonishing
information is confided with an appearance of great secrecy that he is no other than the famous
Comte de Saint-Germain, who did not really die in 1784, but is still alive to-day in Hungary
under the name of Ragocsky. In yet a higher degree, however, the initiate may be told that
the Master is in reality Prince Eugene of Austria.

It would be superfluous to describe in detail the wild nonsense that composes the creed of
Co-Masonry, since a long series of articles was recently devoted to the subject in The Patriot
and can be consulted by anyone who desires information concerning its ceremonies and the personnel
directing it.[714] Suffice it to say here that its course, like that of most secret societies,
has been marked by violent dissensions amongst the members--the Blavatsky-ites passionately
denouncing the Besantites and the Besantites proclaiming the divine infallibility of their
leader--whilst at the same time scandals of a peculiarly unsavoury kind have been brought to
light. This fact has indeed created a serious schism in the ranks of the Theosophists, which
shows that a number of perfectly harmless people are to be found amongst them. Yet the peculiar
recurrence of such scandals in the history of secret societies leads one inevitably to wonder
how far these are to be regarded as merely deplorable accidents or as the results of secret-society
methods and of occult teaching. That the men against whom charges of sexual perversion were
brought were not isolated examples of these tendencies is shown by a curious admission on the
part of one of Madame Blavatsky's "chelas," or disciples, who relates:

     I was a pupil of H.P.B. before Mrs. Besant joined the T.S. and saw
     her expel one of her most gifted and valued workers from the
     Esoteric Section for offences against the occult and moral law,
     similar to those with which Mr. Leadbeater's name has now been
     associated for nearly twenty years. H.P.B. was always extremely
     strict on this particular point, and many [my itals.] would-be
     aspirants for chelaship were refused on this one ground alone,
     while others who had been accepted "on probation" failed almost
     immediately afterwards.[715]

It would appear, then, that these deplorable proclivities are peculiarly prevalent amongst
aspirants to Theosophical knowledge.

It is unnecessary to enlarge at length on Mrs. Besant's connexion with the seditious elements
in this country and in India, since these have frequently been referred to in the press. It
is true that the Theosophical Society, like the Grand Orient, disavows all political intentions
and professes to work only for spiritual development, but the leaders appear to consider that
a radical change must take place in the existing social system before true spiritual development
can be attained. That this change would lie in the direction of Socialism is suggested by the
fact that a group of leading Theosophists, including Mrs. Besant, were discovered in 1919 to
be holding a large number of shares in the Victoria House Printing Company, which was financing
the Daily Herald at that date[716]; indeed, Mrs. Besant in her lectures on Liberty, Equality,
Fraternity, at the Queen's Hall in October of the same year, clearly indicated Socialism as
the system of the coming New Era.[717] Since then the "Action Lodge" has been founded with
the object of carrying "Theosophical ideals and conceptions into all fields of human activity"[718]--from
which the political field appears not to be excluded, since this lodge has been known to co-operate
with the promoters of a political meeting on the Indian question.[719] It is interesting to
notice that a leading member of the "Action Lodge," and also of the "Order of the Star in the
East," was recently reported in the press to have been long connected with the Labour Party
and to have notified her intention of standing for it in Parliament.

This is, of course, not to say that all Theosophists are Socialists. The Theosophical Society
of America, in an admirable series of articles[720] discussing the theory of world-revolution
set forth in my books, pointed out that:

     The pupils of the powers of evil work ... untiringly to thwart
     every real advance of the human race, to pull down whatever
     civilization painfully builds, that makes for light and true
     development and spiritual growth.... It would not be difficult to
     suggest reasons why these pupils and co-workers of the powers of
     darkness choose the chief clauses of their creed: Internationalism,
     Communism, the destruction of the higher class through the despotic
     rule of the lowest class, the corruption of family life. The attack
     on religion hardly needs comment.

It will be seen, then, that Socialism and Internationalism are not an essential part of Theosophical
teaching, and that the more enlightened Theosophists recognize the danger of these destructive
doctrines. At a Special Convention in England on April 6 of this year, seven Lodges entered
a protest against recent departures from the original policy of the Society. Amongst the resolutions
put forward was one urging the President (Mrs. Besant) to establish a tribunal "to investigate
matters affecting the good name of the Society, and the conduct of certain members"; this was
lost by "an overwhelming majority." Another resolution regretted that "the Administration,
the Magazine, and the influence of the Society have been used for controversial political ends
and sectarian religious propaganda." Unhappily these resolutions were not met in the fraternal
spirit that might be expected from a Society setting out to establish Universal Brotherhood
and were stigmatized in a proposed amendment as "destructive motions ... at variance with the
objects for which the Society stands." This clause in the amendment was lost by a small majority,
but a very large majority supported the further clauses in which the Special Convention affirmed
"its complete confidence in the administration of the Society and its beloved and revered President
Dr. Annie Besant, the chosen leader of whom it is justly proud," and sent "its cordial greetings
to Bishop Leadbeater, F.T.S.," thanking him "for his invaluable work and his unswerving devotion
to the cause of Theosophy and the service of the Theosophical Society."

There are, then, a certain number of Theosophists in this country who have the courage and
public spirit to protest against the use of the Society for political ends and against infractions
of the moral code which they believe certain members to have committed. But this party unfortunately
constitutes only a small minority; the rest are prepared to render blind and unquestioning
obedience to the dictates of Mrs. Besant and Mr. Leadbeater. In this respect the Theosophical
Society follows the usual plan of secret societies. For although not nominally a secret society
it is one in effect, being composed of outer and inner circles and absolutely controlled by
supreme directors. The inner circle, known as the Esoteric Section, or rather the Eastern School
of Theosophy--usually referred to as the E.S.--is in reality a secret society, consisting in
its turn of three further circles, the innermost composed of the Mahatmas or Masters of the
White Lodge, the second of the Accepted Pupils or Initiates, and the third of the Learners
or ordinary members. The E.S. and Co-Masonry thus compose two secret societies within the open
order controlled by people who are frequently members of both. Whether even these higher initiates
are really in the secret is another question. Dr. Weller van Hook who is said to have been
also a Rosicrucian and an important member of the Grand Orient once cryptically observed that
"Theosophy is not the hierarchy," implying that it was only part of a world-organization, and
darkly hinting that if it did not carry out the work allotted to it, the Rosicrucians would
take control. That this is more than probable we shall see later.

The outer ranks of the Theosophical Society seem to be largely composed of harmless enthusiasts
who imagine that they are receiving genuine instruction in the religions and occult doctrines
of the East. That the teaching of the E.S. would not be taken seriously by any real Orientalist
and that they could learn far more by studying the works of recognized authorities on these
subjects at a University or at the British Museum does not occur to them for a moment. Nor
would this fulfil the purpose of the leaders. For the Theosophical Society is not a study group,
but essentially a propagandist society which aims at substituting for the pure and simple teaching
of Christianity the amazing compound of Eastern superstition, Cabalism, and eighteenth-century
charlatanism which Mrs. Besant and her coadjutors have devised. Yet even were the doctrines
of Mrs. Besant those of true Buddhism or of Brahmanism, to what extent are they likely to benefit
Western civilization? Setting the question of Christianity aside, experience shows that the
attempt to orientalize Occidentals may prove no less disastrous than the attempt to occidentalize
Orientals, and that to transport Eastern mysticism to the West is to vulgarize it and to produce
a debased form of occultism that frequently ends in moral deterioration or mental derangement.[721]
I attribute the scandals that have taken place amongst Theosophists directly to this cause.

But it is time to turn to another society in which this debased occultism plays a still more
important part.

Rosicrucianism

At the present time, as in the eighteenth century, the term "Rosicrucianism" is used to cover
a number of associations differing in their aims and doctrines.

The first of these societies to be founded in England was the Societas Rosicruciana in Anglia,
founded in 1867 by Robert Wentworth Little on instructions received from abroad. Only Master
Masons are admitted--a procedure not condemned by Grand Lodge of England, which regards the
S.R.I.A. as a perfectly innocuous body. Although neither polical nor anti-Christian, but, on
the contrary, containing distinctly Christian elements and claiming to descend from Christian
Rosenkreutz--a claim which must be dismissed as an absurdity--the S.R.I.A. is nevertheless
largely Cabalistic,[722] dealing with the forces of Nature, alchemy, etc. If its progenitors
are really to be traced further back than the Rosicrucians of the nineteenth century--Ragon,
Eliphas Lévi, and Kenneth Mackenzie--they must be sought amongst certain esoteric Masons in
Hungary and also amongst the French Martinistes, whose rituals doubtless derived from a kindred
source. It will be remembered that Marlines Pasqually bequeathed to his disciples a large number
of Jewish manuscripts which were presumably preserved in the archives of the Martiniste Lodge
at Lyons. The Order of Martinistes has never ceased to exist, and the President of the Suprême
Conseil, Dr. Gérard Encausse, well known as "Papus," an avowed Cabalist, only died in 1916.
To these archives another famous Cabalist, the renegade Abbé, Alphonse Louis Constant, who
assumed the name of Eliphas Lévi, may well have had access. It is said that one of Eliphas
Lévi's most distinguished disciples, the occultist Baron Spedalieri of Marseilles, was a member
of the "Grand Lodge of Solitary Brethren of the Mountain," an "Illumined Brother of the Ancient
Restored Order of Manicheans," a high member of the Grand Orient, and also a "High Illuminate
of the Martinistes." Before his death in 1875 Eliphas Lévi announced that in 1879 a new political
and religious "universal Kingdom" would be established, and that it would be possessed by "him
who would have the keys of the East." The manuscript containing this prophecy was passed on
by Baron Spedalieri to Edward Maitland, who in his turn gave it to a leading member of S.R.I.A.,
by whom it was published in English.[723]

But, as we have already seen, the principal centre of Cabalism was in Eastern Europe, whilst
Germany was the principal home of Rosicrucianism, and it was from these directions that, a
few years later, a new Rosicrucian Order in England derived its inspiration. It is curious
to notice that the eighties of the last century were marked by a simultaneous recrudescence
of secret societies and of Socialist organizations. In 1880 Leopold Engel reorganized Weishaupt's
Order of Illuminati, which, according to M. Guénon, played thenceforth "an extremely suspect
political rôle," and soon after this in 1884 it is said that a strange incident took place
in London. The Rev. A.F.A. Woodford, a F∴ M∴, happened to be turning over the contents of a
second-hand bookstall in Farringdon Street when he came upon some cypher MSS., attached to
which was a letter in German saying that if the finder were to communicate with Sapiens Dominabatur
Astris, c/o Fraulein Anna Sprengel, in Germany, he would receive further interesting information.

This, at any rate, is the story told to initiates of the Order which came to be founded according
to the instructions given in the cypher. But when we remember that precisely the same story
was told by Cagliostro concerning his discovery of a MS. in London by the mysterious George
Cofton on which he had founded his Egyptian rite, we begin to wonder whether the placing of
a MS. in a spot where it is certain to be discovered by precisely the people qualified to decipher
it forms one of the traditional methods of secret-society adepts for extending their sphere
of influence without betraying their identity or revealing the centre of direction.

In this case it certainly succeeded admirably, for by a fortunate coincidence the clergyman
who found the cypher MSS. was acquainted with two prominent members of the S.I.R.A., Dr. Wynn
Westcott and Dr. Woodman, to whom he took the documents, and by a further fortunate coincidence
one of them happened to be the very person to whom Eliphas Lévi's prophecy had been given;
These two men who now assumed the pseudonyms of S.A. (Sapere Aude) and M.E.V. (Magnus est Veritas),
were able partially to decipher the manuscript; S.A., with the assistance of a German, then
wrote to S.D.A. c/o Fraulein Anna Sprengel, saying that he and a friend had finished the deciphering
and that they desired further information. In reply they were told to elaborate the notes,
and that if diligent they would be allowed to form an elementary branch of the Rosicrucian
Order in England. Finally S.D.A. wrote to S.A. authorising him to sign her (or his?) name to
any warrant or document necessary for the constitution of an Order, and promising later on
further rituals and advanced teachings if the preliminary Order proved successful. S.A. and
M.E.V. now called in the aid of a third member of the S.I.R.A., Macgregor Mathers, henceforth
known as D.D.C.F. (Deo Duce Comite Ferro), who, having more time at his disposal, was able,
by means of long and arduous labour, to elaborate the rituals in Masonic style. On March 8,
1888, a warrant was then drawn up according to the design given in the cypher MSS. and was
signed by S.A. for S.D.A., by M.E.V. and D.D.C.F., all three having received the honorary grade
of 7-4 from S.D.A. so as to enable them to act as Chief of the New Temple. It is interesting
to note that whilst the instructions in the cypher MSS. were in English and German, the name
now given to the new Order "The Golden Dawn," was accompanied by its equivalent in Hebrew "Chebreth
Zerech aur Bokher" that is to say "The Companions of the Rising Light of the Morning." Amongst
the instructions we find: "Avoid Roman Catholics but with pity"; also these directions concerning
the Obligation:

     The candidate asking for Light is taken to the Altar and forced to
     take an Obligation to secrecy under penalty of expulsion and death
     or palsy from hostile current of will.

From the subsequent correspondence of the Order it is seen that this so-called "punitive current"
was actually directed by the Chiefs against those who rebelled.

Although the members of the Golden Dawn later became linked up with the "Esoteric Masons" in
Germany, neither the organization nor the ritual of the Order are masonic, but rather Martiniste
and Cabalistic. For amidst all the confused phraseology of the Order, the phrases and symbols
borrowed from Egyptian, Greek, or Hindu mythology, one detects the real basis of the whole
system--the Jewish Cabala, in which all the three Chiefs were, or became, experts. Mathers
in fact translated the famous book of Abraham the Jew from French into English with explanatory
notes, and Wynn Westcott translated the Sepher Yetzirah from Hebrew. Lectures were given to
the society on such subjects as the Tarot Cards, Geomantic Talismans, and the Schemhamphorasch
or Tetragrammaton.

The Order was at first absolutely governed by the three Chiefs, but after a time--owing to
the death of Woodman and the resignation of Wynn Westcott--Mathers became the Sole Chief and
professed to have obtained further instructions from the Hidden Chiefs through his wife--a
sister of Bergson--by means of clairvoyance and clairaudience. But the real directors of the
Order were in Germany and known as the "Hidden and Secret Chiefs of the Third Order." A curious
resemblance will here be noted with the "Concealed Superiors" by whom members of the Stricte
Observance in the eighteenth century declared themselves to be controlled.

Who these men were at the time the Order was founded remains a mystery not only to the outside
world but even to the English initiates themselves. The identity of Sapiens Dominabatur Astris
appears never to have been established, nor was anything more heard about the still more mysterious
Anna Sprengel until her death in an obscure German village was reported in 1893. Indeed, one
of the most active members of the Order, Dr. Robert Felkin, M.D., known as F.R. (Finem Respice),
later declared that, although he had visited five temples of the Order in Germany and Austria,
he had been unable to get into touch with the Hidden Chiefs, or to discover how the original
MSS. came into the hands of the clergyman who handed them to Wynn Westcott and Woodman. According
to Felkin's statement, all that he had been able to find out was that the MSS. were the notes
of ceremonies made by a man who had been initiated into a Lodge in Germany, and that the temple
from which they originated was "a special temple" working on the Cabala tree like the English
branch of the Order. Further, he was told that none of the "big Three" who founded the Golden
Dawn in England were real Rosicrucians at all.

The confusion of ideas which must inevitably result when, as in secret societies or revolutionary
organizations, a number of people are being blindly led by hidden directors, naturally brought
about dissensions amongst the members, who mutually accused each other of ignorance of the
real aims of the Order. Thus the London Lodge ended by breaking with Mathers, who was in Paris,
on account of his arrogance in claiming supreme power through the mystery of the Hidden Chiefs,
and after two years of unsettled government, in 1902 elected three new chiefs--Dr. Felkin (F.R.
= Finem Respice), Bullock, a solicitor (L.O. = Levavi Oculos) who resigned at the end of the
year, and Brodie Innes (S.S.--Sub Spe). But although Mathers had been repudiated, his teachings
were retained as emanating from the Hidden Chiefs.

Two years earlier a dramatic incident had occurred. In a very sinister personage, Aleister
Crowley, had been introduced into the Order on the recommendation of A. E. Waite (S.R. = Sacramentum
Regis) the well-known mystical writer. A man of many aliases, Crowley followed the precedent
of the "Comte de Saint-Germain," the "Comte de Cagliostro," and the "Baron von Offenbach" by
ennobling himself and masquerading under various titles in turn, such as "Count Svareff," "Lord
Boleskine," "Baron Rosenkreutz," but usually known in the Order as "P" for "Perdurabo."

Crowley, who was a Cabalist, had written a book on Goetic Magic and soon after becoming a member
of the "Golden Dawn" set to work with another "Frater" on magical experiments, including evocations,
the consecration and use of talismans, divination, alchemy, etc. In 1900 Crowley had joined
Mathers in Paris where the latter and his wife were living under the assumed names of the "Comte
and Comtesse of Glenstrae" and engaged in reviving the mysteries of Isis at the Bodinière Theatre.
In this task they were joined by an extraordinary lady, the notorious Madame Horos (alias the
Swami) who claimed to be the real and authentic Sapiens Dominabatur Astris. Crowley described
her as "a very stout woman and very fair" and "a vampire of remarkable power;" Mathers declared
her to be "probably the most powerful medium living," but later, in a letter to another member
of the "Golden Dawn" observed: "I believe her and her accomplices to be emissaries of a very
powerful secret occult order who have been trying for years to break up other Orders and especially
my work." Incidentally this lady, who proved to be a false S.D.A., ended by starting an Order
in collaboration with her husband, in which it was said that certain rituals of the Golden
Dawn were adapted to an immoral purpose, with the result that the couple were brought to trial
and finally condemned to penal servitude.

Whether owing to this disturbing experience, or because, as Crowley declared, he had "imprudently
attracted to himself forces of evil too great and terrible for him to withstand, presumably
Abramelin demons," Mathers' reason began to totter. This then was the situation at the time
of his rupture with the Order, and the dramatic incident referred to was the sudden appearance
of Crowley in London, who, whether acting as Mathers' envoy or on his own initiative, broke
into the premises of the Order, with a black mask over his face, a plaid shawl thrown over
his shoulders, an enormous gold (or gilt) cross on his breast, and a dagger at his side, for
the purpose of taking over possession. This attempt was baffled with the prosaic aid of the
police and Crowley was expelled from the Order. Eventually, however, he succeeded in obtaining
possession of some of the rituals and other documents of the Golden Dawn, which he proceeded
to publish in the organ of a new Order of his own. This magazine, containing a mixture of debased
Cabalism and vulgar blasphemies, interspersed with panegyrics on haschish--for Crowley combined
with sexual perversion an addiction to drugs--which might appear to express only the ravings
of a maniac. But eccentricity has often provided the best cloak for dark designs, and the outbreak
of war proved that there was a method in the madness of the man whom the authorities persisted
in regarding merely as an irresponsible degenerate of a non-political kind. To quote the press
report of his exploits after this date:

     In November 1914 Crowley went to the United States, where he
     entered into close relations with the pro-German propagandists. He
     edited the New York International, a German propagandist paper
     run by the notorious George Silvester Viereck, and published, among
     other things, an obscene attack on the King and a glorification of
     the Kaiser. Crowley ran occultism as a side-line, and seems to have
     been known as the "Purple Priest." Later on he publicly destroyed
     his British passport before the Statute of Liberty, declared in
     favour of the Irish Republican cause, and made a theatrical
     declaration of "war" on England.... During his stay in America
     Crowley was associated with a body known as the "Secret
     Revolutionary Committee" which was working for the establishment of
     an Irish Republic. He is known also as the writer of a defeatest
     manifesto circulated in France in 1915.

But to return to the Golden Dawn. In 1903 a split occurred in the Order. A.E. Waite, an early
member of it, seceded from it with a number of other members and carried off with him the name
of "Golden Dawn," also the vault and other property of the Order. The original Order then took
the name of "Stella Matutina," with Dr. Felkin as Chief.

In the preceding year the members of the London Lodge had again believed that they were in
touch with the Hidden Third Order and revived their efforts to communicate with the Secret
Chiefs in Germany. This state of uncertainty continued till about 1910, when Felkin and Meakin
set forth for Germany, where they succeeded in meeting several members of the Third Order,
who professed to be "true and genuine Rosicrucians" and to know of Anna Sprengel and the starting
of the Order in England. They were not, it was believed, the Secret and Hidden Chiefs, but
more probably Esoteric Masons of the Grand Orient. These Fratres, however, told them that in
order to form a definite etheric link between themselves and the Order in Great Britain, it
would be necessary for a British Frater to be under their instruction for a year. Accordingly
Meakin remained in Germany for special training, so that he might act as the "etheric link"
between the two countries. After a pilgrimage to the Near East, closely following the itinerary
of Christian Rosenkreutz, Meakin returned to Germany, and it appears to have been now that
he was able to get into touch with a certain high adept of occult science.

This remarkable personage, Rudolf Steiner, had earlier belonged to the Theosophical Society,
and it has been suggested that at some period he may have been connected with the revived Illuminati
of Leopold Engel. There is certainly some reason to believe that at one point in his career
he came into touch with men who were carrying on the teachings of Weishaupt, the chief of whom
was the President of a group of Pan-German secret societies, and it seems not improbable that
the mysterious S.D.A., under whose directions the Golden Dawn was founded, might be located
in this circle.

A few years before the war, Steiner, whilst still a Theosophist, started a society of his own,
the Anthroposophical Society, a name borrowed from the work of the XVIIth century Rosicrucian,
Thomas Vaughan, "Anthroposophica Magica." The ostensible leader of Rosicrucianism in Germany
was Dr. Franz Hartmann, founder of the "Order of the Esoteric Rose Croix." Although in some
way connected with Engel's Illuminati and more definitely with the Theosophical Society, Hartmann
was believed to be a genuine Christian mystic. Steiner also made the same profession, and it
seems probable that he formed one of the group of mysterious personages, including besides
Grand Orient Masons, Baron von Knigge, great grandson of Weishaupt's coadjutor "Philo," who
met together in secret conference at Ingoldstadt where the first Lodge of the Illuminati had
been founded in 1776, and decided to revive Illuminism on Christian mystic lines used in a
very elastic sense amongst occultists. At the same time Steiner introduces into his teaching
a strong vein of Gnosticism, Luciferianism, Johannism, and Grand Orient Masonry, whilst reserving
Rosicrucianism for his higher initiates. On this last point he is extremely reticent, preferring
to call his teaching "occult science," since he recognizes that "real Rosicrucians never proclaim
themselves as such"; it is therefore only in the inner circle of his society, on which no information
is given to the public and into which members are admitted by much the same forms of initiation
as those used by the Grand Orient, that Rosicrucianism is mentioned. Some of Steiner's imitators
in The Rosicrucian Fellowship at Oceanside, California, however, openly profess what they call
Rosicrucianism and at the same time claim superior knowledge on the subject of Masonry. Thus
in a book by the leader of this group we find it solemnly stated that according to Max Heindl,
Eve cohabited with serpents in the garden of Eden, that Cain was the offspring of her union
with "the Lucifer Spirit Samael," and that from this "divine progenitor" the most virile portion
of the human race descended, the rest being merely the "progeny of human parents." Readers
of the present work will recognize this as not the legend of Masonry but of the Jewish Cabala
which has been already quoted in this context.[724] Whether this also forms part of Steiner's
teaching it is impossible to say, since his real doctrines are known only to his inner circle;
even some of his admirers amongst the Steiner Matutina, whilst consulting him as an oracle,
are not admitted to the secrets of his grades of initiation and have been unable to succeed
in obtaining from him a charter. Meanwhile they themselves do not disclose to the neophytes
whom they seek to win over that they are members of any secret association. This is quite in
accordance with the methods of Weishaupt's "Insinuating Brothers."

The result of what Steiner calls "occult science" is thus described in a striking passage of
one of his own works:

"This is the change which the occult student observes coming over himself--that there is no
longer a connection between a thought and a feeling or a feeling and a volition, except when
he creates the connection himself. No impulse drives him from thought to action if he does
not voluntarily harbour it. He can now stand completely without feeling before an object which,
before his training, would have filled him with glowing love or violent hatred; he can likewise
remain actionless before a thought which heretofore would have spurred him to action as if
by itself," etc.

I can imagine no clearer exposé of the dangers of occultism than this. Weishaupt had said:
"I cannot use men as I find them; I must form them." Dr. Steiner shows how this transformation
can be accomplished. Under the influence of so-called occult training, which is in reality
simply powerful suggestion, all a man's native impulses and inhibitive springs of action may
be broken; the pupil of the occultist will no longer react to the conceptions of beauty or
ugliness, of right or wrong, which, unknown to himself, formed the law of his being. Thus not
only his conscious deeds but his sub-conscious processes pass under the control of another.
If this is indeed the method employed by Dr. Steiner and his adepts there would certainly seem
to be some justification for the verdict of M. Robert Kuentz that "Steiner has devised occult
exercises which render the mind incapable (rendent l'esprit anéanti), that he attacks the individual
by deranging his faculties (il détraque les facultés)."[725]

What is the real motive power behind such societies as the Stella Matutina and again behind
Steiner? This remains a mystery, not only to the outside world but to the "initiates" themselves.
The quest of the Hidden Chiefs, undertaken by one intrepid pilgrim after another, seems to
have ended only in further meetings with Steiner. Yet hope springs eternal in the breast of
the aspirant after occult knowledge, and astral messages spurred the Fratres to further efforts.
One of these contained the exhortation: "Go on with Steiner, which is not the ultimate end
of search, and we will come into contact with many serious students who will lead us to the
real master of the Order, who will be so overpoweringly impressive as to leave no room for doubt."

A curious analogy with Co-Masonry will here be observed. For whilst the veiled picture of the
Co-Masonic lodges is said to represent "the Master" in the person of Ragocsky or some other
personage in Austria or Hungary, so it is likewise in Austria and Germany that the members
of Stella Matutina seek their Hidden Chiefs and the "real Master" of their Order. Moreover,
whilst the Co-Masons await the coming of the great "World Teacher," King, or Messiah in 1926,
it is also in 1926 that the Stella Matutina expect Christian Rosenkreutz to appear again.[726]
There are many other points of resemblance between the phraseology of the two Orders, as, for
example, the idea of the "Astral Light," "the Great White Lodge," and also "the GREAT WORK"
by which both Orders denote the supreme object of their aspirations--"the union of the East
and the West." It is therefore impossible not to suspect that, although the members of Co-Masonry
and of the Stella Matutina imagine their respective Orders to be entirely unconnected and indeed
appear to be hardly aware of each other's existence, there may be nevertheless some point of
junction in the background and even a common centre of direction.

In this connexion it is interesting to notice the political tendencies of the societies in
question. Although the outcome of the Maçonnerie Mixte, and nominally under the jurisdiction
of headquarters in Paris, Co-Masonry does not appear to be pro-French in its sympathies. On
the contrary, the Co-masonic lodges in this country, as also the head lodge in the Rue Jules-Breton,
seem to have adopted that form of universal brotherhood which principally redounds to the benefit
of Germany.

The Stella Matutina, whilst professing to be solely concerned in occult science and warning
its members against Co-Masonry on account of the political tendencies of the latter, is nevertheless
still more imbued with German influence, since, as we have seen, it has ever since it first
came into existence been secretly under Germany direction. Indeed, during the war this influence
became so apparent that certain patriotic members, who had entered the society in all good
faith with the idea of studying occult science, raised an energetic protest and a schism took
place. Thus, just as in the case of Co-Masonry, the more clear-sighted recognized the imprudence
of placing themselves under foreign control. That this was no imaginary danger is shown by
a correspondence which had taken place some years earlier and has recently been brought to
light. It will be remembered that the great aim of Weishaupt and the Illuminati of the eighteenth
century was to obtain control over all existing masonic and occult Orders, This also became
the dream of Rudolf Steiner and his allies in other countries, whose plan was to form what
they called an "International Bund." The idea of an International Bureau for Masonic Affairs
had already, as we have seen, been started in Switzerland; this was the same idea applied to
occult groups, so that all such societies as Rosicrucianism, Theosophy with its various ramifications
of Co-Masonry, etc., Hermetic Orders, isolated occultists, and so on, were to be placed under
German control. The audacity of the proposal seems to have been too much even for some of the
most internationally minded members of the Stella Matutina, and in the discussion that took
place it was pointed out that admirable as the scheme might be, there was nevertheless some
British spirit amongst these Orders to be reckoned with. Even Mrs. Besant's followers, headed
by the Co-Masons, described as a group which "attracts a large number of idle women who have
leisure to take a little occultism with their afternoon tea," might be liable to ask, "Who
are these Germans to interfere?" But the real obstacle to success was held to be British Freemasonry,
to which a certain number of students of occult science, including all the members of the S.R.I.A.,
belonged. "English Masonry," it was remarked, "boasts the Grand Lodge of 1717, the Mother Lodge
of the World. They are a proud, jealous, autocratic body. Co-Masonry derives from the Grand
Orient of France, an illegitimate body according to English ruling. No English Mason can work
with Co-Masons.... If the English Grand Lodge hears of anything called 'Esoteric Masonry' derived
from such sources, under chiefs once T.S. [Theosophical Society] members, under a head in Berlin,
it will not enquire who Dr. Steiner is or what is the nature of his work, it will simply say,
'No English Masons of the Free and Accepted Masons may join any Society working pseudo-Masonic
rites, i.e. no one of ordinary accepted Freemasonry can attend any meetings or attend any grades
in this illegitimate body.' Finis!... If a lodge of the Continental Order is to be established
in England, Dr. Steiner will be faced with the Masonic difficulty. This is really serious...."[727]

Here then is one of the finest tributes ever paid to British Masonry, for it shows that as
at present constituted and controlled it provides the most formidable barrier against the infiltration
of this country by alien or subversive secret societies. Thus the Freemasons and the Roman
Catholics are recognized as the principal obstacles to success. The Freemasons, however, would
do well to realize the attempts that are made to break down this resistance by traitors in
the Masonic camp, who, after violating their obligations by belonging to an irregular secret
society, act as recruiting agents in the lodges. For the author of these remarks was a British
Freemason who, in collusion with a foreign adept, proposed to penetrate Freemasonry by the
process known in revolutionary language as "boring from within." To quote his own words, "They
must be got at from within, not from without." This was to be accomplished in various ways--by
adepts of the Continental Order getting themselves initiated into orthodox Masonry and then
spreading their own doctrines in the lodges, or by enlisting recruits amongst orthodox Masons
and using them as propagandists among their brother-Masons. It was also suggested that in order
not to rouse suspicion it would be better to avoid the name "Esoteric Masonry," to adopt one
of the rituals used in England, and to employ as "officers" a "mixed group" drawn from various
secret societies. This plan has been carried out with considerable success, and at a recent
conference held by a high Continental adept under the most distinguished patronage, it was
interesting to notice the various secret societies represented by certain of the promoters,
who of course to the general public appeared to be merely isolated individuals interested in
philosophical speculation. But it is time to pass on to the question of yet another secret
association, for amongst those present at the Conference referred to were members of the group
Clarté.

This society, of which the name as well as its avowed aims are singularly reminiscent of Illuminism,
was first heard of in France and was led by men who carried on active anti-patriotic propaganda
throughout the war. Amongst these was Henri Barbusse, author of Le Feu, a defeatest novel which
was received with acclamations from "illuminated" reviewers in the press of this country. Yet
although outwardly a French organization, the real inspiration and teaching of Clarté is essentially
German-Jewish and a great number of Jews are to be found amongst its members, particularly
in Central Europe. At the inaugural meeting of the Austrian group it was stated that 80 per
cent. of those present were of the Jewish race. The keynote of Clarté is Internationalism--abolition
of nationality, destruction of frontiers, and pacifism or rather the substitution of class
warfare for war between nations. For this purpose it is willing to make use of all subversive
doctrines, to whatever school of thought they may belong. Hence, although the creed of the
leaders is professedly Socialism, they readily co-operate with Syndicalists, Anarchists, or
revolutionaries of any brand, carrying on propaganda in Trade Unions and various workers' organizations;
some are secretly in the ranks of the Communists. In fact members of Charté have succeeded
in penetrating into almost every subversive group, even as far afield as New Zealand, where
the society has an agency in Wellington and disseminates the most violent revolutionary teaching
and literature.

But whilst thus making use of the "proletariat" to further its ends, the point of view of Clarté
is fundamentally undemocratic--for the real grievances of the workers it has no use at all.
The plan of this group--who were recently described in the French press as "the finest specimens
of cannibals smeared with humanitarianism (les plus beaux spécimens de cannibales barbouillés
d'humanitairerie)"--is to constitute a sort of International Hierarchy of Intellectual Socialists,
whose influence is to make itself invisibly felt in literary, educational, and artistic circles
all over the world. For the members of Clarté are as careful as were the adepts of Weishaupt
to preserve their incognito and not to be known as "Illuminati." Thus the public in our own
country and elsewhere, reading the diatribes of certain well-known authors against the existing
order of society, may vaguely wonder why men living amidst all the amenities of civilization
should desire its destruction, but do not dream that all this is not the outcome of an individual
brain but propaganda put out by a company which, having largely primed such writers with ideas,
is able, owing to the high position of many of its leading members and its influence with the
literary world, to ensure the success of any publication that will further its ends.

The organization of Clarté thus approximates more nearly, to the system of Weishaupt than that
of the other societies described in this chapter. Although in the strictest sense a secret
society, it is in no sense occult and therefore possesses no ritual of its own, but, like the
earlier Illuminati, recognizes the utility of working through Freemasonry. Clarté, in fact,
forms an adjunct of the Grand Orient and owns a lodge under its jurisdiction in Paris. It would
be interesting, however, to know whether the idea of the alliance with the Grand Orient occurred
as an afterthought to the Clarté group or whether the original inspiration of Clarté emanated
from an inner circle of the Grand Orient. We shall return to the question of this inner circle
in a later chapter.

Such, then, are the principal secret societies at work in Great Britain, but amongst minor
secret or semi-secret movements may be mentioned the strange sect the Faithists, said to have
some affinity with the Druses, inhabiting a singularly unromantic London suburb, whose "Ancient
Founder" is the author of a series of tracts urging man not to be misled by false Gods, but
to worship "Jehovih the Creator only," and at the same time advocating nationalization as a
cure for all social ills; or again The Institute for the Harmonious Development of Man at Fontainebleau,
led by Gurdjieff and Uspenski which combines esoteric meditation with an extremely meagre diet
and strenuous manual labour. It is interesting, by the way, to notice that the art of movement
known as Eurhythmy--not to be confounded with the system of M. Dalcroze which is known in England
only as Eurhythmics--forms an important part of the curriculum of the last society, as also
of Herr Steiner's Order, of the Stella Matutina, and of the Russian Bolsheviks.[728]

The one question that presents itself to the judicial mind after examining all these movements,
is inevitably: Are they of any real importance? Can a few hundreds, or even thousands, of men
and women, drawn largely by curiosity or want of occupation into societies of which the very
names are hardly known to the general public, exercise any influence on the world at large?
It would certainly be an error to overestimate the power that each of these societies individually
can wield; to do so would be, in fact, to play into the hands of the leaders, whose plan, from
Weishaupt onwards, has always been to represent themselves as directing the destinies of the
universe. This claim to power is the bait laid for neophytes, who are made to believe that
"the Order will one day rule the world." But, whilst recognizing the folly of this pretension,
we should be mistaken in underrating their importance, for the reason that they provide evidence
of a larger organization in the background. The Stella Matutina may be only an obscure Fraternity,
even the Theosophical Society with all its ramifications[729] may not be of great importance
in itself, but will anyone with a knowledge of European affairs seriously maintain that the
Grand Orient is a small or unimportant organization? And have we not seen that investigations
into the smaller secret societies frequently lead back to this greater masonic power? Secret
societies are of importance, because they are, moreover, symptomatic, and also because, although
the work actually carried out in their lodges or councils may be of a trivial character, they
are able by the power of association and the collective force they generate to influence public
opinion and to float ideas in the outside world which may have far-reaching consequences.

At any rate, the fact that they exist finally disposes of the contention that secret societies
of a subversive and even of an abominable kind are things of the past. These amazing cults,
these strange perverted rites which we associate with the dark ages, are going on around us
to-day. Illuminism, Cabalism, and even Satanism are still realities. In 1908 Monsieur Copin
Albancelli stated that circumstances had afforded him the proof that--

     certain Masonic societies exist which are Satanic, not in the sense
     that the devil comes to preside at their meetings, as that romancer
     of a Leo Taxil pretended, but in that their initiates profess the
     cult of Lucifer. They adore him as the true God, and they are
     animated by an implacable hatred against the Christian God, whom
     they declare to be an impostor. They have a formula which sums up
     their state of mind; it is no longer: "To the glory of the Great
     Architect of the Universe," as in the two lower Masonries; it is G∴
     E∴ A∴ A∴ L∴ H∴ H∴ H∴ A∴ D∴ M∴ M∴ M∴, which means "Gloire et Amour à
     Lucifer! Haine! haine! haine! an Dieu maudit! maudit! maudit!"
     (Glory and Love for Lucifer! Hatred! hatred! hatred! to God,
     accursed, accursed, accursed!)

     It is professed in these societies that all that the Christian God
     commands is disagreeable to Lucifer; that all that He forbids is,
     on the contrary, agreeable to Lucifer; that in consequence one must
     do all that the Christian God forbids and that one must shun like
     fire all that He commands. I repeat that with regard to all that, I
     have the proofs under my hand. I have read and studied hundreds of
     documents relating to one of these societies, documents that I have
     not permission to publish and which emanate from the members, men
     and women, of the group in question.[730]

I do not say that any society in England consciously practices this cult of Satan, but I too
have seen dozens of documents relating to occult groups in this country which practise rites
and evocations that lead to illness, moral perversion, mental derangement, and even in some
cases to death. I have heard from the lips of initiates themselves accounts of the terrible
experiences through which they have passed; some have even urged me to bring the matter before
the attention of the authorities. But unfortunately no department exists for the investigation
of subversive movements. Yet since all these movements are intimately connected with revolutionary
agitation they are well worth the attention of Governments that desire to protect law, order,
and public morality. The fact is that the very extravagance of their doctrines and practices
seems to ensure their immunity. Nevertheless, whether the power at work behind them is of the
kind we are accustomed to call "supernatural," or whether it is merely the outcome of the human
mind, there can be no doubt of its potency for evil and of its very definite effects in the
obliteration of all sense of truth and in sexual perversion.

In the opinion of an initiate who belonged for years to the Stella Matutina, the dynamic force
employed known as "Kundalini" is simply an electro-magnetic force, of which the sex-force is
a part, on which the adepts know how to play, and "the unseen hand behind all the seeming Spiritism
of these Orders is a system of very subtle and cunning hypnotism and suggestion." Further,
the aim of this group like that of all subversive Esoteric Orders, is, by means of such processes
as eurhythmics, meditations, symbols, ceremonies, and formulas, to awaken this force and produce
false "Illumination" for the purpose of obtaining "Spiritual Seership," which is at most clairvoyance,
clairaudience, etc. The ceremonies of the Order are hypnotic, and by suggestion create the
necessary mental and astral atmosphere, hypnotize and prepare the members to be the willing
tools in the hands of the controlling adepts. The same initiate has communicated to me the
following conclusions concerning the group in question, with the permission to quote them verbatim:

     I have been convinced that we, as an Order, have come under the
     power of some very evil occult Order, profoundly versed in science
     both occult and otherwise, though not infallible, their methods
     being Black Magic, that is to say, electro-magnetic power,
     hypnotism, and powerful suggestion.

     We are convinced that the Order is being controlled by some SUN
     Order after the nature of the Illuminati, if not by that Order
     itself.

     The reason why they (the leaders of all such Orders) insisted so
     much upon the Church and Sacrament, especially before the
     initiation, is, I think, for the same reason as the use of the
     consecrated Host in Black Magic. The Christian consecration and the
     use of the sacraments renders the building or person more powerful
     as a material basis for black magic even as in white magic--"for
     the Great Good or the Great Evil." When the initiation is
     accomplished and the domination of the person complete, there is no
     further need for Church or Sacrament.

     We are told at the Initiation: "There is nothing incompatible with
     your civil, moral, or religious duties in this obligation." We now
     are convinced that this Order is contrary absolutely to our civil,
     moral, and religious duties; which being so, our obligations are
     null and void.

     We are told that all that has taken place in Russia and elsewhere
     is due to these International Occult Forces set in motion by
     Subversive Esoteric Lodges. Yet it is known that we have several
     branches of these same Esoteric Masonic Lodges carrying on their
     deadly work in our midst. England, as well as Europe, seems to be
     drifting along in a hypnotic sleep, and even our soundest
     politicians seem paralysed and all that they attempt is turned to
     foolishness. Is there no one in authority who understands these
     things and realizes the danger both to the country and to
     individuals from these forces working for disruption and world
     revolution?

How in the face of these declarations, coming from those inside the movement, can anyone maintain
that Illuminism is dead and that secret societies present no danger to Christian civilization?

13

OPEN SUBVERSIVE MOVEMENTS

Although the sceptical reader who has reached this stage of the present work will perhaps be
willing to admit that some connexion may be traced between hidden forces and open subversive
movements, the objection he will still raise against the general thesis here set forth will
probably be expressed somewhat in the following manner:

"It is quite possible that secret societies and other unseen agencies may have played a part
in revolutions, but to attribute the continued revolt against the existing social order to
these causes is absurd. Poverty, unemployment, inadequate housing, and above all the inequalities
of human life are quite sufficient to produce a revolutionary spirit without the aid of secret
instigators. Social revolution is simply a rising of the 'have-nots' against the 'haves,' and
requires no further cause to explain it."

Let it be at once admitted that the injustices here enumerated are real. The working classes
throughout the nineteenth century had very genuine reasons for complaints. Wages were far too
low, the rich sometimes showed themselves indifferent to the sufferings of the poor, employers
of labour often made profits out of all proportion to the remuneration paid to the workers.
Nor, in spite of the immense reforms introduced during the last hundred years, have all these
grievances been redressed. The slums of our great cities still constitute a blot upon our civilization.
Profiteering since the beginning of the war has been more flagrant than ever. "Rings" and combines
provide fabulous wealth for individuals or groups at the expense of vast numbers of consumers.
And in all classes of the community, just as before the French Revolution, people feast and
dance whilst others live on the border-line of starvation.

But let us see how far the Socialist movement can be regarded as the spontaneous revolt of
the "people" against this condition of things. Dividing the people after the manner of Marx
into the non-revolutionary and the "revolutionary proletariat," we shall find that the former
category, by far the larger, combines with a strong respect for tradition a perfectly reasonable
desire for social reform. Briefly it asks for adequate wages, decent housing, and a fair share
of the good things of life. For State interference in the affairs of everyday life it feels
nothing but abhorrence. The ideal of Communism as formulated by Lenin, wherein "the getting
of food and clothing shall be no longer a private affair,"[731] would meet with stronger opposition
from working men--and still more from working women, to whom "shopping" is as the breath of
life--than from any other section of the population. Even such apparently benign Socialist
schemes as "communal dining-rooms" or "communal kitchens" appeal less to the working-class
mentality than to the upper-class mind that devises them.

Turning to the "revolutionary proletariat," we shall find this individualistic instinct quite
as strongly developed. It is not the Socialist idea of placing all wealth and property in the
hands of the State, but the Anarchist plan of "expropriation," of plunder on a gigantic scale
for the benefit of the revolutionary masses, which really appeals to the disgruntled portion
of the proletariat. The Socialist intellectual may write of the beauties of nationalization,
of the joy of working for the common good without hope of personal gain; the revolutinary working
man sees nothing to attract him in all this. Question him on his ideas of social transformation,
and he will generally express himself in favour of some method by which he will acquire something
he has not got; he does not want to see the rich man's motor-car socialized by the State--he
wants to drive about in it himself. The revolutionary working man is thus in reality not a
Socialist but an Anarchist at heart. Nor in some cases is this unnatural. That the man who
enjoys none of the good things of life should wish to snatch his share must at least appear
comprehensible. What is not comprehensible is that he should wish to renounce all hope of ever
possessing anything. Modern Socialist propagandists are very well aware of this attitude of
the working classes towards their schemes, and therefore that as long as they explain the real
programme they mean to put into operation, which is nothing but the workhouse system on a gigantic
scale, they can meet with no success. As a life-long Socialist has frequently observed to me,
"Socialism has never been a working-class movement; it was always we of the middle or upper
classes who sought to instil the principles of Socialism into the minds of working men." Mr.
Hyndman's candid confessions of the failures to enlist the sympathies even of slum-dwellers
in his schemes of social regeneration bear out this testimony.

Less honest Socialist orators as the result of long experience have therefore adopted the more
effectual policy of appealing to the predatory instincts of the crowd. From Babeuf onwards,
Socialism has only been able to make headway by borrowing the language of Anarchy in order
to blast its way to power.

Socialism is thus essentially a system of deception devised by middle-class theorists and in
no sense a popular creed. Had the revolutionary movement of the past 150 years really proceeded
from the people, it would inevitably have followed the line laid down by one of the two sections
of the proletariat indicated above, that is to say, it would either have taken the form of
a continuous and increasing agitation for social reforms which would have enlisted the sympathy
of all right-thinking men and must therefore in the end have proved irresistible, or it would
have followed the line of Anarchy, organizing brigandage on a larger and yet larger scale,
until, all owners of wealth having been exterminated and their expropriators in their turn
exterminated by their fellows, the world would have been reduced to a depopulated desert.

But the world revolution has followed neither of these lines. Always the opponent of sane social
reforms which Socialists deride as "melioration" or as futile attempts to shore up an obsolete
system, it has consistently disassociated itself from such men as Lord Shaftesbury, who did
more to better the conditions of the working classes than anyone who has ever lived. Anarchy,
on the other hand, has been used by them merely as a means to an end; for genuine revolutionary
sentiment they have no use at all. In Russia the Anarchists became the first objects of Soviet
vengeance. The cynical attitude of Socialists towards the revolutionary proletariat was illustrated
by Mr. Bernard Shaw, who in December 1919 openly boasted that he had helped to organize the
railway strike,[732] and two years later wrote about the miners' strike in the following terms:

     A Socialist State would not tolerate such an attack on the
     community as a strike for a moment. If a Trade Union attempted such
     a thing, the old Capitalist law against Trade Unions as
     conspiracies would be re-enacted within twenty-four hours and put
     ruthlessly into execution. Such a monstrosity as the recent coal
     strike, during which the coal-miners spent all their savings in
     damaging their neighbours and wrecking the national industries,
     would be impossible under Socialism. It was miserably defeated, as
     it deserved to be.[733]

Now, if this had been written by the Duke of Northumberland in the National Review instead
of by Mr. Bernard Shaw in the Labour Monthly, one can imagine the outcry there would have been
in the Socialist press. But the leaders of what is called democracy may always use what language
they please in speaking of the people. "Our peasants," Maxim Gorky openly declared, "are brutal
and debased, hardly human. I hate them."[734] It will be noticed that in descriptions of the
French Revolution references to the savageries of the people are never resented by the Liberal
or Socialist press; the persons of the leaders alone are sacred. It is clearly not the cause
of democracy but of demagogy that these champions of "liberty" are out to defend.

The world-revolution is therefore not a popular movement but a conspiracy to impose on the
people a system directly opposed to their real demands and aspirations, a system which, moreover,
has proved disastrous every time an attempt has been made to put it into practice.

Russia has provided a further example of its futility. The fact that the more responsible leaders
in this country do not advocate violence, does not affect the ultimate issue. Whilst Bolshevism
sets out to destroy Capitalism at a blow, Socialism prefers a more gradual process. It is the
difference between clubbing a man on the head and bleeding him to death--that is all.

The fact is that all Socialism leads to Communism in the long run[735] and therefore to disaster.
The Bolshevist régime brought ruin and misery to Russia not because of the brutality of its
methods, but because it was founded on the gigantic economic fallacy that industry can be carried
on without private enterprise and personal initiative. The same theory applied by constitutional
methods would produce precisely the same results. If the Socialists are ever allowed to carry
out their full programme, England may be reduced to the state of Russia without the shedding
of a drop of blood.

But how are we to explain the fact that in spite of the failure of Socialism in the past, in
spite of the gigantic fiasco presented by Russia, in spite, moreover, of the declaration by
the Bolsheviks themselves that Communism had failed and must be replaced by "a new economic
policy," that is to say by a return to "Capitalism,"[736] there should still be a large and
increasing body of people to proclaim the efficacy of Socialism as the remedy for all social
ills? In any other field of human experiment, in medicine or mechanical invention, failure
spells oblivion; the prophylactic that does not cure, the machine that cannot be made to work,
is speedily relegated to the scrap-heap. What indeed should we say of the bacteriologist, who,
after killing innumerable patients with a particular serum, were to advertise it as an unqualified
success? Should we not brand such a man as an unscrupulous charlatan or at best as a dangerous
visionary? If, moreover, we were to find that large bands of agents backed by unlimited funds,
were engaged in pressing his remedy upon the public and carefully avoiding all reference to
the fatalities it had caused, should we not further conclude that there was "something behind
all this"--some powerful company "running" the concern with a view to advancing its own private
interests?

Why should not the same reasoning be applied to Socialism? For not only has Socialism never
been known to succeed, but all its past failures are carefully kept dark by its exponents.
Who, then, stands to gain by advocating it? And further, who provides the vast sums spent on
propaganda? If in reality Socialism is a rising of the "have-nots" against the "haves," how
is it that most of the money seems to be on the side of the "have-nots"? For whilst organizations
working for law and order are hampered at every turn for funds, no financial considerations
ever seem to interfere with the activities of the so-called "Labour movement." Socialism, in
fact, appears to be a thoroughly "paying concern," into which a young man enters as he might
go into the City, with the reasonable expectation of "doing well." It is only necessary to
glance at the history of the past hundred years to realize that "agitation" has provided a
pleasant and remunerative career for hundreds of middle-class authors, journalists, speakers,
organizers, and dilettantes of all kinds who would otherwise have been condemned to pass their
lives on office-stools or at schoolmasters' desks. And when we read the accounts of the delightful
treats provided for these "devoted workers" in the cause of the proletariat as given in the
records of the First Internationale or the pages of Mrs. Snowden, we begin to understand the
attractions of Socialism as a profession.[737]

But again I repeat: Who provides the funds for this vast campaign? Do they come out of the
pockets of the workers or from some other mysterious reservoir of wealth? We shall return to
this point in a later chapter.

How is it possible at any rate to believe in the sincerity of the exponents of equality who
themselves adopt a style of living so different from that of the proletariat whose cause they
profess to represent? If the doctrinaires of Socialism formed a band of ascetics who had voluntarily
renounced luxury and amusement in order to lead lives of poverty and self-sacrifice--as countless
really devoted men and women not calling themselves Socialists have done--we should still doubt
the soundness of their economic theories as applied to society in general, but we should respect
their disinterestedness. But with very few exceptions Socialist Intellectuals dine and sup,
feast and amuse themselves with as few scruples of conscience as any unregenerate Tories.

With people such as these it is obviously as futile to reason, as it would be to attempt to
convince the agent of a quack medicine company that the nostrums he presses on the public will
not effect a cure. He is very well aware of that already. Hence the efforts of well-meaning
people to set forth in long, well-reasoned arguments the "fallacies of Socialism" produce little
or no result. All these so-called "fallacies" have been exposed repeatedly by able writers
and disproved by all experience, so that if based merely on ignorance or error they would long
since have ceased to obtain credence. The truth is that they are not fallacies but lies, deliberately
devised and circulated by men who do not believe in them for a moment and who can therefore
only be described as unscrupulous charlatans exploiting the credulity of the public.

But if this description may be legitimately applied to the brains behind Socialism and to certain
of its leading doctrinaires, there are doubtless thousands of honest visionaries to be found
in the movement. A system that professes to cure all the ills of life inevitably appeals to
generous minds that feel but do not reason. In reality many of these people, did they but know
it, are simply social reformers at heart and not Socialists at all, and their ignorance of
what Socialism really means leads them to range themselves under the banner of a party that
claims a monopoly of ideals. Others again, particularly amongst the young intelligentsia, take
up Socialism in the same spirit as they would adopt a fashion in ties or waistcoats, for fear
of being regarded as "reactionaries." That in reality, far from being "advanced," the profession
of Socialism is as retrogressive as would be a return to the side-whiskers and plaid trousers
of the last century, does not occur to them. The great triumph of Mussolini was to make the
youth of Italy realize that to be a Communist was to be a "back number," and that progress
consisted in marching forward to new ideas and aspirations. The young men of Cabet's settlement
discovered this sixty years ago when they formed themselves into a band of "Progressives" in
opposition to the old men who still clung to the obsolete doctrine of Communism.

Socialism at the present moment is in reality less a creed than a cult, founded not on practical
experience but on unreal theory. It is here we find a connexion with secret societies. M. Augustin
Cochin in his brilliant essays on the French Revolution[738] has described that "World of the
Clouds" of which the Grand Orient was the capital, peopled by the precursors of the French
Revolution. "Whilst in the real world the criterion of all thought lies in putting it to the
test," there in the World of the Clouds the criterion is opinion. "They are there to talk,
not to do; all this intellectual agitation, this immense traffic in speeches, writings, correspondence,
leads not to the slightest beginning of work, of real effort." We should be wrong to judge
them harshly; their theories on the perfectibility of human nature, on the advantages of savagery,
which appear to us "dangerous chimeras," were never intended to apply to real life, only to
the World of the Clouds, where they present no danger but become, on the contrary, "the most
fecund truths."

The revolutionary explosion might well have finally shattered these illusions but for the Grand
Orient. We have already seen the identity of theory between French Masonry and French Socialism
in the nineteenth century. It was thus that, although in France one experiment after another
demonstrated the unreality of Socialist Utopias, the lodges were always there to reconstruct
the mirage and lead humanity on again across the burning desert sands towards the same phantom
palm-trees and illusory pools of water.

Whatever the manner in which these ideas penetrated to this country--whether through the Radicals
of the last century, adorers of the Encyclopædist Masons of France, or through the British
disciples of German Social Democrats from the time of the First Internationale onwards--it
is impossible to ignore the resemblance between the theories not only of French but of modern
British Socialism and the doctrines of illuminized Freemasonry. Thus the idea running through
Freemasonry of a Golden Age before the Fall, when man was free and happy, and which through
the application of masonic principles is to return once more, finds an exact counterpart in
the Socialist conception of a past halcyon era of Liberty and Equality, which is to return
not merely in the form of a regenerated social order, but as a complete Millennium from which
all the ills of human life have been eliminated. This idea has always haunted the imagination
of Socialist writers from Rousseau to William Morris, and leads directly up to the further
theory--the necessity for destroying civilization.

I cannot find in Mr. Lothrop Stoddart's conception of the revolutionary movement as the revolt
of the "Under Man" against civilization, the origin of this campaign. In reality the leaders
of world-revolution have not been "Under Men," victims of oppression or of adverse fate, nor
could they be ranged in this category on account of physical or mental inferiority. It is true
that most revolutionary agitators have been in some way abnormal and that the revolutionary
army has largely been recruited from the unfit, but the real inspirers of the movement have
frequently been men in prosperous circumstances and of brilliant intellect who might have distinguished
themselves on other lines had they not chosen to devote their talents to subversion. To call
Weishaupt, for example, an "Under Man" would be absurd. But let us see what is the idea on
which the plan of destroying civilization is ostensibly founded.

It will be remembered that Rousseau like Weishaupt held that the Golden Age of felicity did
not end in the garden of Eden, as is popularly supposed, but was prolonged into tribal and
nomadic life. Up to this moment Communism was the happy disposition under which the human race
existed and which vanished with the introduction of civilization. Civilization is therefore
the fons et origo mali and should be done away with. Let no one exclaim that this theory died
out either with Rousseau or with Weishaupt; the idea that "civilization is all wrong" runs
all through the writings and speeches of our Intellectual Socialists to-day. I have referred
elsewhere to Mr. H.G. Wells's prediction that mankind will more and more revert to the nomadic
life, and Mr. Snowden has recently referred in tones of evident nostalgia to that productive
era when man "lived under a system of tribal Communism."[739] The children who attend the Socialist
Schools are also taught in the "Red Catechism" the advantages of savagery, thus:

Question. Do savages starve in the midst of plenty?

Answer. No; when there is plenty of food they all rejoice, feast, and make merry.[740]

That when there is not plenty of food they occasionally eat each other is not mentioned.

Here, then, is the theory on which this yearning for a return to nature is based. For it is
quite probable that if a Golden Age ever existed it was Communistic; it is also true that certain
primitive tribes have found it possible to continue the same system, for the simple reason
that when and where the earth was very thinly populated it brought forth, without the artificial
aid of agriculture, more than enough to supply each man's needs. There was therefore no need
for laws to protect property, since every man could help himself freely to all that he required.
If at the present time a dozen people were shipwrecked on a fertile island some miles in area,
the institution of property would be equally superfluous; if, however, several hundred were
to share the same fate, it would at once become necessary to institute some system of cultivation
which in its turn would necessitate either the institution of property, by which each man would
depend on his own plot of land for his existence, or a communal system, by which all would
be obliged to work for the common good and force applied to those who refused to do their allotted
share.

Peaceful Communism is thus simply a matter of population; the conditions under which men can
sit in the sun and enjoy the fruits of the earth with little effort must be transformed with
the multiplication of the human species into a system which recognizes private property, or
a communal State which enforces compulsory labour by means of overseers with whips. It was
perhaps an appreciation of this truth that impelled the practical exponents of Rousseau's doctrines,
the Terrorists of 1793, to embark on their "plan of depopulation" by way of establishing Communism
on a peaceful basis.

But our Intellectual Socialists deny this necessity on the ground that under the benign régime
of Socialism all men would be good and happy and would work joyfully for the welfare of the
community. The fact that this has not proved the case even in voluntary Communist settlements
does not daunt them, because, as has been said, their creed is founded not on practical experiment,
but on theory, and it is here that we again find the inspiration of Grand Orient Freemasonry.
The assumption that under an ideal social order all human failings would vanish derives directly
from the two masonic doctrines which the Grand Orient, under the influence of Illuminism, has
brought to a reductio ad absurdum--the perfectibility of human nature and universal brotherhood.
The whole philosophy of Socialism is built upon these false premises.

Indeed the actual phraseology of illuminized Freemasonry has now passed into the language of
Socialism; thus the old formulæ of "the United States of Europe" and "the Universal Republic"
have been adopted not only by Mrs. Besant and her followers[741] as the last word in modern
thought, but have also reappeared as a brilliant inspiration under the pen of Mr. H.G. Wells
in the slightly varied form of the "World State." It would be amusing, for anyone who had the
time, to discover how many of the ideas of our so-called advanced thinkers might be found almost
verbatim in the writings of Weishaupt, the République Universelle of Anacharsis Clootz, and
in the speeches of Grand Orient orators during the last century.

Moreover, the world-revolution is not only founded on the doctrines of illuminized Freemasonry,
but has adopted the same method of organization. Thus, after the plan of the secret societies,
from the Batinis onward, we shall find the forces of revolution divided into successive grades--the
lowest consisting of the revolutionary proletariat, the chair a révolution as Marx expressed
it, knowing nothing of the theory of Socialism, still less of the real aims of the leaders;
above this the semi-initiates, the doctrinaires of Socialism, comprising doubtless many sincere
enthusiasts; but above these again further grades leading up to the real initiates, who alone
know whither the whole movement is tending.

For the final goal of world-revolution is not Socialism or even Communism, it is not a change
in the existing economic system, it is not the destruction of civilization in a material sense;
the revolution desired by the leaders is a moral and spiritual revolution, an anarchy of ideas
by which all standards set up throughout nineteen centuries shall be reversed, all honoured
traditions trampled under foot, and above all the Christian ideal finally obliterated.

It is true that a certain section of the Socialist movement proclaims itself Christian. The
Illuminati made the same profession, so have the modern Theosophists and Rosicrucians. But,
as in the case of these secret societies, we should ask of so-called Christian Socialists:
What do they means by Christ? What do they mean by Christianity? On examination it will be
found that their Christ is a being of their own inventing, that their Christianity is a perversion
of Christ's real teaching.

The Christ of Socialism invoked in the interests of Pacifism as the opponent of force and in
the interests of class warfare as a Socialist, a revolutionary, or even an "agitator," bears
no resemblance to the real Christ. Christ was not a Pacifist when He told His disciples to
arm themselves with swords, when He made a scourge of cords and drove the money-changers from
the Temple. He did not tell men to forgive the enemies of their country or of their religion,
but only their private enemies. Christ was not a Socialist when He declared that "a man's life
consisteth not in the abundance of the things that he possesseth." Socialism teaches that a
man must never rest content as long as another man possesses that which he has not. Christ
did not believe in equality of payment when He told the parable of the ten talents and the
unprofitable servant. Socialism would reduce all labour to the pace of the slowest. Above all,
Christ was not a Socialist when He bade the young man who had great possessions sell all that
he had and give it to the poor. What School of Socialism has ever issued such a command? On
the contrary, Socialists are enjoined by their leaders not to give their money away in charity
lest they should help by this means to prolong the existence of the present social system.
The truth is that, as I showed in connexion with the fallacy of representing Christ as an Essene,
there is no evidence to show that He or His disciples practised even the purest form of Communism.
Christ did not advocate any economic or political system; He preached a spirit which if applied
to any system would lead to peace among men. It is true that He enjoined His disciples to despise
riches and that He denounced many of the rich men with whom He came into contact, but it must
not be forgotten that His immediate mission was to a race that had always glorified riches,
that had worshipped the golden calf, and by which wealth was regarded as the natural reward
of godliness.[742] Christ came to teach men not to look for present reward in the form of increased
material welfare, but to do good out of love to God and one's neighbour.

I do not doubt that in the past such men as Kingsley and J.F.D. Maurice sincerely imagined
that they were following in the footsteps of the Master by describing themselves as Christian
Socialists, but that the present leaders of Socialism in England are Christians at heart is
impossible to believe in view of their attitude towards the campaign against Christianity in
Russia. Never once have they or their allies, the Quakers, officially denounced the persecution
not only of the priests but of all who profess the Christian faith in Russia.[743] Listen to
this voice from the abyss of Russia:

     We very much ask for prayer for the Church of Russia; it is passing
     through great tribulation and it is a question whether spiritual or
     earthly power will triumph. Many are being executed for not denying
     God.... Those placed by God at the helm need all the prayer and
     help of Christians all over the earth, because their fate is partly
     theirs too, for it is a question of faith triumphing over atheism,
     and it is a tug-of-war between those two principles.[744]

And again:

     I look upon the persecution of the Russian Church as an effort to
     overthrow Christianity in general, for we are governed just now by
     the power of darkness, and all that we consider sinful seems to get
     the upper hand and to prosper.[744]

Yet it is for this power that the Socialist Party of Great Britain have for years been demanding
recognition. Even the appeals for help from their fellow-Socialists in Russia have left them
cold. "We would suggest," ran one such appeal--

     1. That the British Labour Party issue an official protest against
     the Soviet Government's inhuman treatment of its political
     opponents in general and the political prisoners in particular.

     2. That meetings of protest should be organized in the industrial
     towns of Great Britain.

     3. That the British Labour Party make an official representation to
     the Soviet Government directly, urging the latter to put a stop to
     the persecutions of the Socialists in Russia.[745]

And it was of this régime that Mr. Lansbury wrote:

     Whatever their faults, the Communist leaders of Russia have hitched
     their wagon to a star--the star of love, brotherhood,
     comradeship.[746]

The callous indifference displayed by British Socialists, with the honourable exception of
the Social Democratic Federation,[747] towards the crimes of the Bolsheviks offers indeed a
painful contrast to the attitude of the other Socialists of Europe. At the conference of the
Labour and Socialist International at Hamburg in May 1923, a resolution was passed condemning
the persecution by the Soviet Government. When the resolution was put to the congress, 196
voted for, 2 against it, and 39, including the 30 British delegates, abstained.

I ask, then: Why should the Socialists of Great Britain be differentiated from the Bolsheviks
of Russia? In every question of importance they have always lent them their support. In the
great war on Christianity they have acted as the advance guard by the institution of Socialist
Sunday-schools, from which all religious teaching is excluded. Socialists are very anxious
to disassociate these from the "Proletarian" Sunday-schools which teach atheism. But from ignoring
the existence of God to denying it is but a step; moreover, it will be noticed that the Socialists
have never issued any protests against the blasphemies of the Proletarian schools. The real
attitude of the Socialist Party towards religion may perhaps be gauged by the notice, reproduced
on page 341, which once appeared in its official organ the Daily Herald, of which Mr. Lansbury,
widely advertised as a fervent Christian, was once editor and is now managing director.

It was to the party controlling this organ that 700 clergymen of the Church of England and
the Episcopal Church of Scotland saw fit to offer their congratulations by means of a memorial
presented to Mr. Ramsay MacDonald in March 1923. Shall we yet see the scene of Brumaire 1793
repeated and a procession of prelates presenting themselves at Westminster to lay down their
rings and crosses and declare that "henceforth there shall be no other worship than that of
liberty and holy equality"?

Already the desecration of the churches has begun. The red flag was recently carried into the
City Temple by a band of unemployed, although several of their number objected to its presence
in the church. An attempt to sing "The Red Flag" was also suppressed by a section of the unemployed

themselves, who had apparently retained some sense ot decency.[748]

Weishaupt's design of enlisting the clergy in the work of world-revolution has been carried
out according to plan. Those Catholic priests in Ireland who inflamed popular passions acted
as the tools of the International Atheist conspiracy and found at last the movement turning
against themselves. The Protestant clergymen who profess "Christian Socialism" are playing
the same part. Doubtless without knowing it, they act as the agents of the Continental Illuminati
and pave the way, as did the emissaries of Weishaupt, for the open attack on all forms of religion.
It is not a mere accident that the blasphemous masquerades of the French Revolution have recently
been repeated in Russia. The horrible incidents described in the press[749] were simply the
outward manifestation of a continuous conspiracy of which evidence was seen some years ago
in Portugal under the influence of the Carbonarios, led by Alfonso Costa, whose utterances
at times bore a striking resemblance to those of Anacharsis Clootz. The late Duchess of Bedford
thus described the war on religion which inaugurated the new Republic:

One of the most zealous enterprises of this great society [the Carbonarios] is, in their own
words, to exterminate "the Christian myth" in the minds of the nation of Portugal. The little
children in the schools have badges pinned into their clothes with the words "No God! No religion!"
and a British tourist who made a journey throughout the country of Portugal met bands of innocent
babes carrying banners, on which the inscription was "We have no need of God."[750]

Is it only a coincidence that last year a Socialist and Communist meeting in Trafalgar Square
displayed a red banner bearing the motto: "No King, no God, no Law"?[751]

I repeat: It is not an economic revolution which forms the plan of the real directors of the
movement, it is neither the "dictatorship of the proletariat" nor the reorganization of society
by the Intelligentsia of "Labour"; it is the destruction of the Christian idea. Socialist orators
may inveigh against corrupt aristocracy or "bloated Capitalists," but these are not in reality
the people who will suffer most if the aim of the conspiracy is achieved. The world-revolution
has always shown itself indulgent towards selfish and corrupt aristocrats, from the Marquis
de Sade and the Duc d'Orléans onwards; it is the gentle, the upright, the benevolent, who have
fallen victims to revolutionary fury.

Socialism with its hatred of all superiority, of noble virtues--loyalty and patriotism--with
its passion for dragging down instead of building up, serves the purpose of the deeper conspiracy.
If the Christian Intelligentsia can be destroyed or won over and the nation deprived of all
its natural leaders, the world-revolutionaries reckon that they will be able to mould the proletariat
according to their desires. This being so, the thing we now call Bolshevism forms only one
phase of the movement which is carried on by countless different methods, apparently disconnected
but all tending towards the same end. We have only to look around us in the world to-day to
see everywhere the same disintegrating power at work--in art, literature, the drama, the daily
press--in every sphere that can influence the mind of the public. Just as in the French Revolution
a play on the massacre of St. Bartholomew was staged in order to rouse the passions of the
people against the monarchy, so our modern cinemas perpetually endeavour to stir up class hatred
by scenes and phrases showing "the injustice of kings," "the sufferings of the people," the
selfishness of "aristocrats," regardles of whether these enter into the theme of the narrative
or not.[752] And in the realms of literature, not merely in works of fiction but in manuals
for schools, in histories and books professing to be of serious educative value and receiving
a skilfully organized boom throughout the press, everything is done to weaken patriotism, to
shake belief in all existing institutions by the systematic perversion of both contemporary
and historical facts, whilst novels and plays calculated to undermine all ideas of morality
are pressed upon the public as works of genius which, in order to maintain a reputation for
intellect, it is essential to admire. I do not believe that all this is accidental; I do not
believe that the public asks for the anti-patriotic or demoralizing books and plays placed
before it; on the contrary, it invariably responds to an appeal to patriotism and simple healthy
emotions. The heart of the people is still sound, but ceaseless efforts are made to corrupt it.

This conspiracy has long been apparent to Continental observers. Some years before the war,
Monsieur de Lannoy, a member of an anti-masonic association in France, at a conference on "the
influence of judaeo-masonic sects in the theatre, in literature, in the fashions," showed how
"orders of things which appear to have no connexion with each other are skilfully bound up
together and directed by a single methodical movement towards a common end. This common end
is the paganization of the universe, the destruction of all Christianity, the return to the
loosest morals of antiquity."[753] Robison saw in the indecent dress of the period of the Directory
the result of Weishaupt's teaching, and traces to the same cause the ceremony which took place
in Notre Dame when a woman of loose morals was held up to the admiration of the public.[754]
The same glorification of vice has found exponents amongst the modern Illuminati in this country.
In The Equinox--the Journal of Scientific Illuminism, it is proposed that prostitutes should
be placed on the same level as soldiers who have served their country and be honoured and pensioned
by the State.[755] The community of women was not an idea that originated with the Russian
Bolsheviks, but one that has run through all the revolutionary movements of the past.

The attempt to pervert all conceptions of beauty in the sphere of art serves to pave the way
for moral perversion. In the New York Herald two years ago there appeared a circular protesting
against the so-called Modernistic cult in art as "world-wide Bolshevist propaganda." The circular
went on to declare:

This aims to overthrow and destroy all existing social systems, including that of the arts.
This modernistic degenerate cult is simply the Bolshevist philosophy applied in art. The triumph
of Bolshevism therefore means the destruction of the present æsthetic system, the transportation
of all æsthetic values, and the deification of ugliness.

The whole propaganda of the movement was said to be organized by "a coterie of European art-dealers"--elsewhere
described as German--who had flooded the market with the works of artists who began as "a small
group of neurotic egomaniacs in Paris styling themselves worshippers of Satan, the God of Ugliness."
Some of these men were suffering from the "visual derangement" of the insane, whilst "many
of the pictures exhibited another form of mania. The system of this is an incontrollable desire
to mutilate the human body." Sadism, as we know, played a prominent part in both the French
and Russian revolutions. The most important point in all this is not that degenerates should
be found to perpetrate these abominations, but what the circular describes as the "Machiavellian
campaign organized for the unloading of these works. Editions de luxe ... were published and
sold by the picture dealers; ...every crafty device known to the picture trade was resorted
to in order to discredit and destroy the heretofore universally accepted standards of aesthetics."[756]

This process of reversing all accepted standards may also be brought about by subtler methods.
We have already seen that occult practices may lead to the obliteration of all sense of truth
and of normal sexual instincts.

Much the same consequences may result from the Freud system of Psycho-Analysis, which, particularly
by its insistence on sex, tends to subordinate the will to impulses of a harmful kind. An eminent
American neuro-psychiatrist of New York has expressed his opinion on this subject in the following
words:

The Freud theory is anti-Christian and subversive of organized society. Christianity teaches
that the individual can resist temptation and Freudism teaches that the matter of yielding
to or resisting temptation is one for which the individual is not wilfully responsible. Freudism
makes of the individual a machine, absolutely controlled by subconscious reflexes.... It would
of course be difficult to prove that psycho-analysis has been evolved as a destructive propaganda
measure, but in one sense the point is immaterial. Whether conscious or unconscious, it makes
for destructive effect.[757]

In general, the art of the conspiracy is not so much to create movements as to capture existing
movements, often innocuous and even admirable in themselves, and turn them to a subversive
purpose. Thus birth control, which--if combined with the restriction of alien immigration and
carried out under proper direction--would provide a solution to the frightful problem of over-population,
can without these provisos become a source of national weakness and demoralization. It is easy
to see how a limitation of the native population would serve the cause of England's enemies
by reducing her fighting forces and by making room for undesirable aliens. That the birth-control
campaign may also be used for evil purposes is suggested by the fact that it has not been confined
to our own overcrowded island, but has been carried on in France, where under-population has
long constituted a tragedy. In 1903 and 1904 the "Ligue de la Régéneration Humaine," founded
by Monsieur Paul Robin, in its organ L'Émancipateur issued not only instructions on "the means
how to avoid large families," but also pamphlets on "free love and free maternity."[758] The
campaign of race-suicide was thus combined with the undermining of morality; legal families
were to be limited and illegal births encouraged. This was quite in accord with the doctrines
of the Grand Orient, in whose Temples, Monsieur Copin Albancelli points out, the principle
of "la libre maternité"--known in this country as "the right to motherhood"--was advocated.

It is curious to notice that the apparently innocent invention of Esperanto receives support
from the same quarter. This is not surprising since we know that the idea of a universal language
has long haunted the minds of Freemasons. I have myself seen a document emanating from a body
of French Masons stating that Esperanto is directly under the control of the three masonic
powers of France--the Grand Orient, the Grande Loge Nationale, and the Droit Humain.

That it is largely used for promoting Bolshevism has been frequently stated. In July 1922,
M. Bérard, Minister of Education, issued a circular "to the heads of all French Universities,
academies, and colleges, calling on them not to help in any way in the teaching of Esperanto
on the ground that Bolsheviks use it as one of their dangerous forms of propaganda."[759] A
correspondent points out to me that another universal language, Ido, is used for propaganda
by the Anarchists, and that several journals distributed by revolutionary societies, written
in Ido, are "frankly and baldly Anarchical." The writer adds:

Last week I received a copy of Libereso (Liberty), monthly organ of the Anarchist Section of
the "Emancipating Star"--"Cosmopolitan Union of Labour-class Idists." It commands carrying
out Anarchistic principles to their extreme limits; commends "La Ruzo" (ruse); is sarcastic
regarding Socialism and Democracy.... It contains an appeal for help (in money) for the Anarchists
imprisoned in Russia ... written by Alexander Berkmann and signed by him with Emma Goldmann
and A. Schapiro.

Here, then, we have a revolutionary movement which is anti-Socialist and even anti-Bolshevist,
which tends to prove the opinion I have already expressed, that Bolshevism is only one phase
of the world-conspiracy. But if we explain this by the old antagonism between the opposing
revolutionary camps of Anarchy and Socialism, how are we to account for the fact that the same
destructive purpose animates people who are neither Anarchist nor Socialist, but can only be
ranged in the category of extreme reaction? Of this phase of the movement Nietzsche provides
the supreme example. In his imprecations against "the Crucified," the advocate of autocracy
and militarism rivals the most infuriated of revolutionary Socialists. The whole spirit of
perversion is contained in the description of Nietzsche by his friend Georges Brandes: "His
thoughts stole inquisitively along forbidden paths: 'This thing passes for a value. Can we
not turn it upside-down? This is regarded as good. Is it not rather evil?'" What is this but
Satanism? The case of Nietzsche is not to be explained away by the fact that he died raving
mad, since a number of apparently sane people still profess for him unbounded admiration, and
whilst deriding Socialism and even attacking Bolshevism join in the war against Christian civilization.
The conspiracy therefore exists apart from so-called democratic circles.

Not long ago I picked up an Italian novel by an anti-Socialist containing precisely the same
diatribes against "Christian-bourgeois society" that are to be found in Anarchist and Bolshevist
literature. "The family," says the author, "is the kernel of contemporary society and its base.
Whoever would really reform or subvert must begin by reforming and subverting the family....
The family ... is the principal path of all unhappiness, of all vice, of all hypocrisy, of
all moral ugliness, ..." and he goes on to show that the two countries which have proved themselves
the sanest and the strongest are Germany and America, because they have advanced by long strides
towards free love.[760]

The writer of these words may be of no importance, but they should be noted because they are
symptomatic and help us to locate certain centres of infection.

It is impossible to observe all these miscellaneous movements going on all around us without
being struck by the similarity of aim between them; each seems to form part of a common plan,
which, like the separate pieces of a jig-saw puzzle, convey no meaning, but when fitted together
make up a perfectly clear design. That there is somewhere in the background a point of contact
is suggested by the fact that we find members of the different groups playing a double and
a treble rôle, the same name occurring in the list of patrons in a Birth Control paper and
in a revolutionary secret society, amongst the exponents of Psycho-Analysis and the members
of an Irish Republican Committee.

With the open as with the secret forces the great method of warfare is the capture of public
opinion. A hidden influence behind the press contributes powerfully to this end. Some of the
subtlest disintegrating propaganda during the last seven years has emanated from the so-called
"Capitalist press." The Daily Herald is only the brass band of the Revolution. It is to the
journals inspired and patronized by the Intelligentsia that we must turn to find the doctrines
of Illuminism set forth with the most persuasive eloquence.[761]

More than eighty years ago a Frenchman endowed with extraordinary prophetic instinct foretold
not only the danger that would one day come from Russia, but that the press would facilitate
the destruction of civilization:

     When our cosmopolitan democracy, bearing its last fruits, shall
     have made of war a thing odious to whole populations, when the
     nations calling themselves the most civilized on earth shall have
     finished enervating themselves in their political debaucheries, ...
     the floodgates of the North will open on us once again, then we
     shall undergo a last invasion not of ignorant barbarians but of
     cunning and enlightened masters, more enlightened than ourselves,
     for they will have learnt from our own excesses how we can and must
     be governed.

     It is not for nothing that Providence piles up so many inactive
     forces in the East of Europe. One day the sleeping giant will arise
     and force will put an end to the reign of words. In vain, then,
     distracted equality will call the old aristocracy to the help of
     liberty; the weapon grasped again too late and wielded by hands too
     long inactive will have become powerless. Society will perish for
     having trusted to words void of sense or contradictory; then the
     deceitful echoes of public opinion, the newspapers, wishing at all
     costs to keep their readers, will push [the world] to ruin if only
     to have something to relate for a month longer. They will kill
     society to live upon its corpse.[762]

To-day the newspapers, no longer the echoes of public opinion but its supreme directors, throw
open their columns to every form of disintegrating doctrine and close them to arguments that
could effectually arrest the forces of destruction.

What is the hidden influence behind the press, behind all the subversive movements going on
around us? Are there several Powers at work? Or is there one Power, one invisible group directing
all the rest--the circle of the real Initiates?

14

PAN-GERMANISM

We have seen in the course of this book that the idea of a secret power
working for world-revolution through both open movements and secret
societies, is not a new one, but dates from the eighteenth century. In
order to appreciate the continuity of this idea, let us recapitulate the
testimonies of contemporaries, some of which have been already quoted in
their context, but which when collected together and placed in
chronological order make up a very remarkable chain of evidence.
     Whence comes it? Where is it? No one knows, or at least no one
     tells. The association is secret, even for us, the veterans of
     secret societies.[770]

In 1852 Disraeli wrote:

     It was neither parliaments nor populations, nor the course of
     nature, nor the course of events, that overthrew the throne of
     Louis Philippe ...the throne was surprised by the Secret Societies,
     ever prepared to ravage Europe.... Acting in unison with a great
     popular movement they may destroy society, as they did at the end
     of the last century.[771]

In 1874 Père Deschamps, after his exhaustive study of secret societies, thus propounded the
question:

     We have now to ask ourselves whether there is anything but an
     identity of doctrines and personal communications between the
     members of the different sects, whether there is really a unity of
     direction which binds together all the secret societies, including
     Free Masonry. Here we touch on the most mysterious point of the
     action of secret societies, on that which these national Grand
     Orients who declare themselves independent of each other and
     sometimes even excommunicate each other conceal most carefully
     beneath a veil.[772]

Finally Deschamps is led to the conclusion that there is "a secret council which directs all
masonic societies,"[773] that there are secret lairs where the chiefs of the sects agree together
on their work of destruction.[774]

It would be easy to multiply quotations of this kind taken from many different sources. Whether
the men who expressed these opinions were, as we are frequently told, suffering from delusions
or not, the fact remains that the idea of a hidden hand behind world-revolution has existed
for at least 135 years. And when we compare these utterances with Monsieur Copin Albancelli's
description of an inner circle secretly directing the activities of the Grand Orient, and with
the conclusions reached by members of other secret societies, that such a circle exists behind
all occult and masonic societies of a subversive kind, we are necessarily led to enquire: is
there one circle or rather one Power behind both open and secret organizations working for
the overthrow of the existing social order and Christian civilization? If so, what is this power?

Now, to leave speculation for the moment and come to known facts, everyone who has seriously
studied these matters is aware that there are at the present moment five principal organized
movements at work in the world with which ordered government has to contend, that may be summarized
as follows:

    1. Grand Orient Freemasonry.
    2. Theosophy with its innumerable ramifications.
    3. Nationalism of an aggressive kind, now represented by Pan-Germanism.
    4. International Finance.
    5. Social Revolution.

It will be seen that, with the exception of the fourth, these movements are those of which
I have endeavoured to trace the course throughout the earlier part of this book. It is a highly
significant fact that it was only when I had reached this stage of my work I discovered there
were independent investigators who had arrived at precisely the same conclusions as myself.

The problem that now confronts us is therefore this: if there is indeed one power directing
all subversive movements, is it one of the five movements here enumerated or is it yet another
power more potent and more invisible? In order to discover this, it is necessary to consider
whether these movements, although apparently divergent in their ultimate purpose, have nevertheless
any ideas or any aims in common. One fundamental point of similarity will certainly be found
between them. All desire to dominate the world and to direct it along lines and according to
rules of their own devising; more than this, each desires to direct it solely for the benefit
of one class of people--social, intellectual, or national as the case may be--to the entire
exclusion of every human being outside that class. Thus in reality each aspires to the dictatorship
of the world.

Besides this, it will be noticed that not only these principal movements, but also the minor
subversive movements described in the last chapter, have in the main (1) a pro-German tendency--none,
at any rate, are pro-French nor do they encourage British patriotism, (2) all contain a Jewish
element--none, at least, are "anti-Semite," and (3) all have a more or less decided antagonism
to Christianity. If then, there is a single power behind them, is it the Pan-Germanic Power?
Is it the Jewish Power? Or is it the Anti-Christian Power? Let us examine each of these possibilities
in turn.

Viewed under the aspect of exaggerated Nationalism, the spirit of Pan-Germanism is nothing
new. The dream of world-domination has haunted the imagination of many races from the time
of Alexander the Great to Napoleon I, but nowhere has the plan been carried out by the Machiavellian
methods which have characterized Prussian foreign policy and diplomacy from the days of Frederick
the Great onwards. It is not Prussian militarism that constitutes the crime of modern Germany.
Militarism in the sense of courage, patriotism, discipline, and devotion to duty is a splendid
thing. But the spirit of Pan-Germanism differs from the British conception of patriotism in
that it overrides the rights of all other peoples and seeks to establish its domination over
the whole world. Under German domination every German would be free and every other human being
a slave. England, whilst seeking conquests, has, on the other hand, always allowed the inhabitants
of conquered territories to develop along their own lines and has made use of legislation largely
to protect them from each other. The preference of the native of India for an English judge
to one of his own race is evidence of this fact. But it is further the abandonment of all principle,
the acceptance of the doctrine that everything is allowable--lying, treachery, calumny, and
bad faith--in order to achieve its end, that has placed Germany outside the comity of nations.
Robison describes the system of the Illuminati as leading to the conclusion that "nothing would
be scrupled at, if it could be made appear that the Order would derive advantage from it, because
the great object of the Order was held as superior to every consideration."[775] Change the
word Order to State, and one has the whole principle of modern German Imperialism.

Now, it is interesting to notice that the founders of German Illuminism and of German Imperialism
drew certain of their ideas from the same source. Both Weishaupt and Frederick the Great were
earnest students of Machiavelli--and both out-did their master. This form of Machiavellism,
carried to a point probably never dreamt of by the Italian philosopher, has run through the
whole struggle of Prussia for supremacy and at the same time through each outbreak of world
revolution in which Prussian influence has played a part. Thus the Ems telegram in 1870, the
false report that tricked Russia into mobilization in 1914,[776] the violation of treaties
and of all the laws of civilised warfare during the recent war, were the direct outcome of
doctrines that may be found in embryo in The Prince. So also the most striking characteristic
of the French Revolution under the inspiration of Weishaupt's emissaries and the agents of
Prussia, and of the present revolutionary movement inaugurated by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels,
is not so much its violence as its Machiavellian cunning. The art popularly known to-day as
camouflage--of dressing-up one design under the guise of something quite different, of making
black appear white by glorifying the most ignoble actions, of making white appear black by
holding up all honourable traditions to contempt and ridicule, in a word perversion--has been
reduced to a system by the secret directors of world revolution. It is here that we can detect
the non-proletarian character of the movement. The working-man of all countries is the least
Machiavellian of beings; his weakness lies in the fact that he is too inarticulate, that he
does not know how to put his case even when he has a good one, still less to make a bad one
appear plausible. It was not until world revolution was taken over by the faction described
by Bakunin as "the German-Jew Company" that it reassumed its Machiavellian character and gradually
became the formidable organization it is to-day.

A few extracts from The Prince will show how closely both the Prussians and the Terrorists
of France and Russia have followed Machiavelli's manual for despots:

"He who usurps the government of any State is to execute and put in practice all the cruelties
which he thinks material at once, that he may have no occasion to renew them often," etc.[777]
(Vide the German principle of "frightfulness" to be exercised against the inhabitants of invaded
territory and the plan of the French and Russian Terrorists in suppressing "counter-revolutionaries.")

"It is of such importance to a prince to take upon him the nature and disposition of a beast;
of all the whole flock he ought to imitate the lion and the fox."[778](Vide Frederick the Great
and the demagogues of France and Russia.)

"A prince ... who is wise and prudent, cannot or ought not to keep his parole, when the keeping
of it is to his prejudice, and the causes for which he promised removed."[779] (Vide Germany's
doctrine of the scrap of paper and the promises of the Bolshevist Trade Delegation in London
to refrain from propaganda.)

"Because the whole multitude which submits to your government is not capable of being armed,
if you be beneficial and obliging to those you do arm, you may make the bolder with the rest,
for the difference of your behaviour to the soldier binds him more firmly to your service,"
etc.[780](Vide the insolent behaviour permitted to officers of the German Imperial Army and
the feeding of the Red Army in Russia at the expense of the rest of the population.)

"The prince ... is obliged ... at convenient times in the year to entertain the people by feastings
and plays and spectacles of recreation ... and give them some instance of his humanity and
magnificence."[781] (Vide the important part played by "spectacles" in the French Revolution
and by the theatre and opera in Soviet Russia. Always the same plan of "panem ei circenses!")

Just after the fall of Napoleon I a French writer published a book describing the "methodic
perversity" of the revolutionary leaders and the Revolution as the beginning of a Machiavellian
régime.[782] How did this system come to be established in France unless under the guidance
of Weishaupt's emissaries and the agents of Frederick the Great and of the Illuminatus Frederick
William II?

Germany was well able, however, to defend herself against the devastating doctrines of Illuminism.
Always the home of secret societies, she became by the end of the nineteenth century the spiritual
home of Socialism. Yet although this might appear to present a danger to German Imperialism,
no country has remained so free as Germany from serious agitation. It has been well said that
the Germans are theoretically more Socialistic than other nations, but they are far less revolutionary.

The truth is that the rulers of Germany have always known that they could count not merely
on the servility of the people but on their ardent national spirit. A strong vein of patriotism
ran through all the secret societies even of the most subversive variety, and it was the German
Student Orders, whence the Illuminati drew their disciples, that became also the recruiting-ground
for the German Imperialist idea. Instead of combating subversive forces, German Imperialism
adopted the far more skilful expedient of enlisting them in its service.

It was thus that in Germany Freemasonry became a powerful aid to Prussian aggrandizement. From
1840 onwards the word of command to all the lodges went out from Berlin,[783] and in the revolution
of 1848 the Freemasons of Germany showed themselves the most ardent supporters of German unity
under the ægis of Prussia. Later, Bismarck with superb ingenuity enlisted not only Freemasons
and members of secret societies but Socialists and democrats in the same cause. Lassalle and
Marx contributed powerfully to the cause of pan-Germanism. Dammer, who succeeded Lassalle as
head of the Socialist party, instructed his successor Fritsche that "in the meetings which
took place in Saxony, whilst putting forward Socialist claims, they must not fail to demand
the unity of Germany under the domination of Prussia. Fritsche was personally to render an
account to Bismarck of the results obtained at these meetings."[784]

Even as far afield as Italy, Bismarck succeeded in imposing the policy of German autocracy
on men who were ostensibly marching in the vanguard of "liberty." "I believe in the unity of
Germany," Mazzini wrote to Bismarck in 1867, "and I desire it as I desire that of my own country.
I abhor the empire and supremacy that France arrogates to herself over Europe."[785]

Before 1870 Freemasonry everywhere on the Continent helped the cause of Germany. "The Occult
Power preached pacifism and humanitarianism in France by means of French Freemasonry whilst
it preached patriotism in Germany by means of German Freemasonry."[786] So although throughout
the nineteenth century the rulers of Germany permitted the dissemination of ideas antagonistic
to religion, until by the dawn of the following century the very idea of God was rooted out
of the minds of many German children, the Imperial Government was careful that nothing should
be allowed to weaken patriotism. Indeed, the Pan-German obsession into which German patriotism
became transformed under the influence of such men as Treitschke and Bernhardi was, no less
than revolutionary Socialism, fortified by irreligion because founded on the law of force and
the absence of all moral scruple. It is thus not "militarism" in the accepted sense that has
rendered Germany a menace to the world, but the Machiavellian plan of using for export doctrines
sternly repressed within her own borders.

I shall not enlarge here on the crime of the German Imperial Staff in sending Lenin and his
fellow Bolsheviks to Russia, because I have already dealt at length with this question in a
controversy that appeared in the Morning Post two years ago.[787] But whilst acknowledging
the fair and courteous line of argument adopted by my German opponent, with which on certain
points I found myself completely in agreement. I was obliged to recognize that the bar to any
real understanding between us lay in the impossibility of persuading him to recognize the principle
that all means are not justifiable in order to obtain one's ends. This is how he expresses
himself on the subject:

If Mrs. Webster ... reproaches Germany for having employed seditious propaganda in the countries
of the Allies, it may simply be brought to mind that all is fair in love and war. In a war,
in a fight concerning life and death, one does not look at the weapons which one takes, nor
at the values which are destroyed by using the arms. The only adviser [sic] is, first of all,
the success of the fight, the salvation of one's independence.[788]

Until Germany abandons this Machiavellian doctrine it will be impossible to treat her as a
civilized Power.

But Herr Kerlen accuses England of pursuing the same Machiavellian policy of encouraging sedition
abroad. Undoubtedly England did propagate Pacifism in Germany and other enemy countries and
hoped to bring about a political revolution, that is to say, a rising of the German people
against the rulers who had led them into war. (It should be remembered that all the friends
of Germany in this country always declared that the German people did not want the war and
were dragged into it unwillingly by the military caste.) But is there any evidence to show
that England ever attempted to engineer a social revolution, to undermine morality and all
belief in ordered government, in a word to promote Bolshevism in Germany or elsewhere? Herr
Kerlen cites the sympathy accorded in this country to the Kerensky revolution. But England,
largely through the influence of the Liberals, had always entertained an exaggerated idea of
"Tzarist tyranny," and honestly sympathized with all efforts, however misguided, to "liberate"
the Russian people. Further, throughout the war the Tzar and Tzarina had been ceaselessly represented
as faithless to the Allies--a story that we now know to have been an infamous calumny circulated
doubtless by enemy agents. This idea even obtained credence in Conservative circles, misled
by false information on the situation in Russia. One must have lived through the spring of
1917 in London to realize how completely not only the public but the authorities were deluded.
What else could be expected when the opinion of Socialists was accepted on the matter? I know
from personal experience that two of the most important Government departments were completely
mistaken even on the subject of Bolshevism, with the result that measures were not taken which
might have checked its spread into this country.

In a word, then, the essential difference between the attitude of Germany and England to Russia
was that whilst England imagined that the Kerensky revolution would be for the good of Russia
as well as for the advantage of the Allies, Germany deliberately introduced into Russia what
she knew to be a poison.

Always faithful to the maxim of divide et impera, Germany, after bringing Russia to ruin, has
at last succeeded in causing dissensions between the Allies. This policy she pursued unremittingly
throughout the war. Thus whilst on one hand she was assuring the French that "the English would
fight to the last breath of the last Frenchman," General Ludendorff was instructing the Imperial
Chancellor that: "We must again and again rub in the sentence in Kuhlmann's speech to the effect
that the question of Alsace-Lorraine is the only one which stands in the way of peace. And
we must lay special emphasis on the fact that the English people are shedding their blood for
an Imperialistic war-aim."[789]

So skilfully was this propaganda carried on after the war had ended that whilst English officers
returning to England from the occupied areas were declaring that the friendliness of the Germans
convinced them that Germany was really our friend and that we should have an "entente" with
her rather than with France, French officers returning to France said that the Germans had
assured them that they were their best friends, that England was the real enemy, and that it
would be better to break the Entente and form an alliance with Germany. At the same time no
less than three lines of propaganda concerning the causes of the war were going out from Germany,
one laying all the blame on the English, one on the French, and one on the Jews, and pamphlets
embodying these conflicting theories were despatched broadcast to likely subjects in the countries
of the Allies.[790]

The greatest triumph for Imperial Germany lay in her success in enlisting the very elements
amongst the Allies which might most be expected to oppose her. Although there was no country
in the world where monarchy was so adored, militarism so universally admired, where rank and
birth played so important a part, and the working classes, though cared for, so rigidly kept
in subjection, Germany from the time of Bismarck onwards has always been the "spiritual home"
of British Socialists, democrats, and pacifists, just as in France she has always found her
principal allies in the masonic lodges. And this although the German Socialists and Freemasons
have never attempted to use their influence in favour of the masonic and Socialist ideal of
universal brotherhood and world-peace, but, on the contrary, at every crisis have thrown in
their lot with the military party. Thus before the Franco-Prussian War, whilst French Freemasons
of the Loge Concordia and the Socialists of the First Internationale were urging their brothers
to rely on German Socialism to avert a conflict, the Prussian lodges were shouting Hoch! to
the national colours and chanting the praises of King William and "the Prussian sword," and
the German Social Democrats were applauding the cause of German unity.[791]

Exactly the same thing happened before the recent war, when Jaurès assured his fellow-Socialists
that at the first sign of conflict he had only to communicate with Berlin in order to enlist
German Socialism in the interests of peace; yet on the declaration of war the German Socialists
voted solidly for war credits, whilst the British Socialists opposed participation in the war
and even in some instances expressed sympathy with Germany. And let it never be forgotten,
it was not Socialist Germany but Imperial Germany that won the allegiance of our so-called
democrats.

In spite of this betrayal by the Socialists of Germany, in spite of the fact that they have
contributed nothing to the cause of International Socialism or of world-peace, the British
"Labour" Party never until its accession to office wavered in its policy of publicly advocating
the cause of Germany. With the exception of the Social Democratic Federation, every Socialist
body in this country has proclaimed pro-German sentiments, and Justice alone, of all Socialist
organs, has expressed its sympathy for the sufferings of France. In fact, any Socialist who
dared to champion the cause of France immediately lost his influence and position in Socialist
circles. As to the Daily Herald, had it been edited in Berlin it could not more faithfully
have supported German interests. When Alsace Lorraine was restored to France, it published
an article showing how deeply the inhabitants of this province resented being transferred from
the German Empire to the French Republic[792]; when a general strike threatened this country,
it seized the opportunity to come out with an appeal in enormous capitals to revise the Versailles
Treaty; in the matter of reparations its efforts to let Germany off altogether have been, as
it itself observed, "unceasing." "The plain fact is," it declared on December 17, 1921, "that
these fantastic reparation demands cannot be met; and that every payment by which Germany attempts
to meet them will only work further havoc to our own commerce and our own industry. We have
urged that ceaselessly for three years. To-day even the Premier begins to see that we were
right, that the interests of this country demand the scrapping of the whole bad business of
'making Germany pay.'"[793]

Indeed, when the interests of Germany were concerned, this paper, which Lenin has described
as "our own organ," but which might still more truly be claimed by Ludendorff and Stinnes,
was quite ready to throw Socialism to the winds and plead the cause of capital. At the very
moment that it was advocating the Labour policy of a capital levy on all fortunes exceeding
£5,000 in this country, the Daily Herald waxed almost tearful over the iniquity of France in
attempting to touch the pockets of German multi-millionaires whose profits, it went on to explain
elaborately, were not nearly as huge as might appear in view of the decline in the purchasing
power of the mark. The decline in the purchasing power of the pound had, however, never been
taken into account when assessing the profits of British employers of labour.[794]

We have only to follow point by point the policy of the British Labour Party since the war
to recognize that whilst the measures it advocated might be of doubtful benefit to the workers,
there could be no doubt whatever of the benefit they would confer on Germany. With a million
and a quarter unemployed and large numbers of the working classes unable to find homes, the
professed representatives of Labour have persistently clamoured for the removal of restrictions
on alien immigration and alien imports. So although through the Trade Unions the British worker
was to be rigorously protected against competition from his fellow-Briton, no obstacles were
to be placed in the way of competition by foreign, and frequently underpaid, labour. That this
glaring betrayal of their interests should not have raised a storm of resentment amongst the
working classes is surely evidence that the Marxian doctrine "the emancipation of the working
classes must be brought about by the working classes themselves"[795] has so far led to no
great results. Emerson truly observed: "So far as a man thinks, he is free." The working classes
can never be free until they learn to think for themselves instead of allowing their thinking
to be done for them by the middle-class exploiters of Labour.

The hand of Germany behind Socialism must be apparent to all those who do not deliberately
shut their eyes to the fact, and it is significant to notice that the nearer Socialism approaches
to Bolshevism the more marked this influence becomes. Thus although certain Socialist groups,
such as the Social Democratic Federation in England and the Socialist Party in France, have
not become Germanized, the avowed Communists in all the Allied countries are strongly pro-German.
This is the case even in France, where the Bolsheviks find fervent supporters in the group
led by Marcel Cachin, Froissart, and Longuet, grandson of Karl Marx.

The organization of the Bolshevist movement has indeed throughout owed a great deal of its
efficiency to German co-operation, provided not only by the Socialist but by the Monarchist
elements in Germany. It is necessary in this connexion to understand the dual character of
the German Monarchist party since the ending of the war. The great majority of its adherents,
animated by nothing more reprehensible than the spirit of militarism and an aggressive form
of patriotism that clings to the old formula of Deutschland über alles, are probably strangers
to any intrigues, but behind this mass of honest Imperialists, and doubtless unknown to a great
number, there lurk those sinister organizations the Pan-German secret societies.

Many of these, as for example the Ostmarkenverein, ostensibly instituted for the defence of
German interests on the Russian frontier, existed before the war; indeed, there is little doubt
that they have continued without a break since the days of the Tugendbund and have always preserved
their masonic and "illuminized" character. But since the beginning of the Great War, and still
more since the Armistice, their numbers have increased until in 1921 they were estimated to
run into three figures. Moreover, as in the time of Weishaupt, Bavaria is still a centre for
secret-society intrigue, and it was here that Escherich founded the Einwohnerwehr sometimes
known as the Orgesch or Organization Escherich, with Munich as its headquarters. The Orgesch
was followed by the formidable murder club known to all the world as the Organization C or
"Consul," named after its founder, the famous Captain Ehrhardt, whose nickname was "der Herr
Consul." During the year 1921 no less than 400 political assassinations were reported in Germany
and said to be the work of secret societies. Amongst the crimes attributed to the initiative
of Organization C were the murders of Herr Erzberger and the attempt on the life of Herr Scheidemann.
Eighty persons arrested for complicity in the murder of Herr Rathenau were also said to be
members of the same society.[796]

But as in the case of all secret societies, the visible leaders were not the real hierarchy;
behind this active body there existed an inner circle organised on masonic lines, the Druidenorden,
a name unknown to the public, and behind this again another and still more secret circle which
appears to be nameless. It is these inner rings which, whilst remaining Monarchist in Germany,
work for other ends abroad, and are connected with the world-revolutionary movement.

This alliance between the two extremes of ardent Monarchism and revolutionary Socialism existed
at the beginning of the war or even earlier, and, as is now well known, it was the Jewish Social
Democrat, Israel Lazarewitch, alias Helphandt alias Parvus, who arranged with the German General
Staff for the passage of Lenin from Switzerland to Russia, accompanied by Karl Radek, the Austrian
Jew deserter, and a number of other Jews.

Now, Switzerland has been for hundreds of years a centre of revolutionary and secret-society
intrigue. As early as the sixteenth century the Pope, writing to the Kings of France and Spain,
warned them that Geneva was "un foyer éternel de révolution," and Joseph de Maistre, quoting
this letter in 1817, declared Geneva to be the metropolis of the revolutionaries, whose art
of deception he describes as "the great European secret."[797] Elsewhere, a year earlier, he
had referred to Illuminism as the root of all the evil at work. It is now known that at the
moment de Maistre wrote these words an inner ring of revolutionaries, claiming direct descent
from Weishaupt and even from an earlier sect existing at the end of the fifteenth century,
profited by the fall of Napoleon I to reconstruct its organization and took up its headquarters
in Switzerland with branch offices in London and Paris. The same secret ring of Illuminati
is believed to have been intimately connected with the organization of the Bolshevist revolution,
although none of the leading Bolsheviks are said to have been members of the innermost circle,
which is understood to consist of men belonging to the highest intellectual and financial classes
whose names remained absolutely unknown. Outside this absolutely secret ring there existed,
however, a semi-secret circle of high initiates of subversive societies drawn from all over
the world and belonging to various nationalities--German, Jewish, French, Russian, and even
Japanese. This group, which might be described as the active ring of the inner circle, appears
to have been in touch with, if not in control of, a committee which met in Switzerland to carry
out the programme of the Third Internationale.

It was thus in Switzerland that at the same time high initiates of Pan-German secret societies
foregathered and that an active centre of pro-German, anti-Entente, and even Bolshevist propaganda
was established. These Germans, although Monarchists themselves, co-operated with the secret
revolutionary forces in stirring up trouble in the countries of the Allies. At the same time
the conferences of the Second Internationale, attended by members of the British I.L.P. took
place in Switzerland, and at one of these--the Berne Conference of 1919--the delegates were
entertained by a mysterious "American" millionaire, John de Kay, living himself in great style,
paying for press service at the rate of 2,000 francs a day, lavishing money on the conference,
and at the same time subsidizing a Pacifist and Defeatest paper named La Feuille.

It is impossible, then, to ignore the role of Germany in the present outbreak of world revolution.
In the British White Paper on Bolshevism in Russia we find it stated by an Englishman who had
been through the whole of the Revolution in that country that:

     The Germans initiated disturbances in order to reduce Russia to
     chaos. They printed masses of paper money to finance their schemes;
     the notes, of which I possess specimens, can be easily recognized
     by a special mark.[798]

What has Germany to say to all this? Simply that the promotion of Bolshevism was a military
"necessity" in order to bring about the downfall of her opponents, but that the propaganda
utilized by her was in reality of Jewish origin, and that Jewry, not Germany, was the real
author of world revolution.

It is easy to see how such a theory can be made to serve the cause of Pan-Germanism. For if
Germany can persuade us that the Jews alone were responsible for the war and were also the
sole authors of Bolshevism, we shall naturally be led to the conclusion that Germany is, after
all, innocent of the crimes attributed to her, and that our only safety lies in forgoing reparations,
restoring her to her former power, and coalescing with her against a common enemy. We shall
therefore do well to accept with extreme caution advice on the Jewish question emanating from
German sources, and to test the sincerity of the spirit in which it is offered by considering
the relations which have hitherto existed between the Germans and the Jews.

Now, Germany has long been the home of modern "anti-Semitism." Although in every country and
at every period, but more particularly in the East of Europe during the last century, the Jews
have suffered from unpopularity, it was Germany that organized this aversion into a definite
plan of campaign. If in Russia, Galicia, and Poland the Jews have met with sporadic violence
at the hands of the peasants, in Germany they have been systematically held up by the authorities
to hatred and contempt. Luther, Kant, Fichte, Schopenhauer, Treitschke, successively inveighed
against the Jewish race. Jews were denied admission to masonic lodges and to the rank of officers
in the army, whilst society excluded them up to the outbreak of war.

Yet the extraordinary fact remains that of all nations the Germans have always been the favourites
of the Jews. Throughout the whole movement for the unification of Germany under the ægis of
Prussia, Jews played a leading part, and in the recent war Germany found in them some of her
most valuable allies. As Maximilian Harden recently pointed out: "The services of the Jews
to Germany during the war were enormous. The patriotism of the Jews was beyond reproach, in
many cases even ludicrous and offensive in its intensity." And in spite of "anti-Semitism,"
Harden declares: "There is a strong affinity between the German and the Jew."[799] To the Ashkenazim
Germany even more than Palestine has appeared the Land of Promise. Thus some years before the
war Professor Ludwig Geiger, leader of the Liberal Jews of Berlin, denounced "Zionist sophisms"
in the words: "The German Jew who has a voice in German literature must, as he has been accustomed
to for the last century and a half, look upon Germany alone as his fatherland, upon the German
language as his mother-tongue, and the future of that nation must remain the only one upon
which he bases his hopes."[800]

How are we to explain this unrequited devotion? Simply by the German policy of enlisting every
dynamic force in her service. She has known how to use the Jews just as she has known how to
use the Freemasons, the Illuminati, and the Socialists for the purpose of Pan-Germanism. From
Frederick the Great, who employed the Jew Ephraim to coin false money, to William II, who kept
in touch with Rathenau by means of a private telephone wire, the rulers of Germany have always
allowed them to co-operate in their schemes of world-domination. As the allies of Bismarck,
who used them freely to fill his war-chests, the Jews directed the power of the secret societies
in the interests of Germany; in 1871 the Jew Bloechreider acted as adviser to the new German
Empire as to the best method of wresting indemnities from France. And Germany, whilst heaping
insults on the Jews, nevertheless fulfils certain conditions essential to Jewish enterprise.
Unlike England and France, she has never allowed herself to be seriously weakened by democratic
ideas, and therefore to the Jews--as to British believers in autocracy--she represents the
principle of stability.

Moreover, Germany as the home of militarism offers a wide field for Jewish speculation. We
have only to couple together an aphorism of Mirabeau's with one of Werner Sombart's to perceive
the bond of union between the two races, thus: "War is the national industry of Prussia" and
"Wars are the Jews' harvests." As long ago as 1793 Anacharsis Clootz, the apostle of universal
brotherhood and defender of the Jewish race, declared that if Germany were to be prevented
from going to war the Jews must be persuaded to withdraw their support from her military adventures:

     War could not begin or last in Germany without the activity, the
     intelligence, and the money of the Jews. Magazines and munitions of
     all kinds are provided by Hebrew capitalists and all the subaltern
     agents of military provisionment are of the same nation. We have
     only to come to an understanding with our brothers, the Rabbis, to
     produce astonishing, miraculous results.[801]

Mr. Ford, the American motor-car manufacturer, appears to have arrived at much the same conclusion
expressed in the words recently attributed to him: "We don't need the League of Nations to
end war. Put under control the fifty most wealthy Jewish financiers, who produce wars for their
own profit, and wars will cease."[802]

On another occasion Mr. Ford is reported to have said that the Jews who voyaged with him in
the Peace ship in 1915 "went out of their way to convince" him of "the direct relations between
the International Jew and the war": they "went into details to tell me the means by which the
Jews controlled the war--how they had the money, how they had cornered all the basic materials
needed to fight the war," etc.[803]

Without in any way absolving Germany from the crime of the war, it is necessary to take this
secondary factor into consideration if peace between the nations is to be established. For
as long as the lust of war lingers in the hearts of the Germans and the lust of gain at the
price of human suffering lingers in the hearts of the Jews, both races will remain necessary
to each other and the hideous nightmare of war will continue to brood over the world.

There is then a great deal of truth in the Socialist phrase "Capitalists' Wars," although not
in the sense they attribute to it. For it will be noticed that the Capitalists who are most
instrumental in making wars are precisely those whom the Socialists are always careful to shield
from blame. The following incident will illustrate this point.

At a meeting of the Social Democratic Federation Mr. Adolphe Smith moved a resolution appealing
to the organized workers of Great Britain--

     Not to permit themselves in the supposed interests of their
     fellow-workers in other countries, to be used by sinister financial
     and militarist influences merely to weaken the Entente nations in
     the present critical situation, and urging them to keep careful
     watch against such manoeuvres on the part of pro-German
     international financiers, who were able to exercise considerable
     reactionary influence among the wealthy and official classes in
     this country.[804]

Mr. Hyndman added that "the most serious danger by which we were threatened was from the most
powerful group of capitalists in Europe headed by Hugo Stinnes and backed by Hindenburg, Ludendorff,
and the militarist party in Germany." This resolution was opposed by a member of the Parliamentary
Labour Party and eventually withdrawn.

The connexion between German Imperialism, International Finance, Illuminism, Bolshevism, and
certain sections of British Socialism is thus apparent. Is Germany then the secret power behind
the thing we call Bolshevism? Are Illuminism and Pan-Germanism one and the same thing? To this
hypothesis two objections present themselves: firstly, that the spirit of Illuminism and Bolshevism
existed, as we have seen in earlier chapters of this book, long before modern Germany came
into existence; and secondly, that Germany herself is not entirely free from the contagion.
For although the danger of Bolshevism in Germany has been doubtless greatly exaggerated in
order to prevent the Allies from pressing their demands for disarmament and reparations, nevertheless
Bolshevism under its illuminated name of Spartacism cannot be regarded as a movement entirely
staged for the deception of Europe. Moreover, just as in the countries of the Allies it has
shown itself, under the guise of Pacifism, savagely anti-national and pro-German, so in Germany,
as also in Hungary, it turned Pacifism to the opposite purpose by professing sympathy at moments
with the Allies.

It is clear, then, that besides Pan-Germanism there is another power at work, a power far older,
that seeks to destroy all national spirit, all ordered government in every country, Germany
included. What is this power? A large body of opinion replies: the Jewish power.

15

THE REAL JEWISH PERIL

In considering the immense problem of the Jewish Power, perhaps the most important problem
with which the modern world is confronted, it is necessary to divest oneself of all prejudices
and to enquire in a spirit of scientific detachment whether any definite proof exists that
a concerted attempt is being made by Jewry to achieve world-domination and to obliterate the
Christian faith.

That such a purpose has existed amongst the Jews in the past has been shown throughout the
earlier chapters of this book. The conception of the Jews as the Chosen People who must eventually
rule the world forms indeed the basis of Rabbinical Judaism.

It is customary in this country to say that we should respect the Jewish religion, and this
would certainly be our duty were the Jewish religion founded, as is popularly supposed, solely
on the Old Testament. For although we do not consider ourselves bound to observe the ritual
of the Pentateuch, we find no fault with the Jews for carrying out what they conceive to be
their religious duties. Moreover, although the Old Testament depicts the Jews as a favoured
race--a conception which we believe to have been superseded by the Christian dispensation,
whereby all men are declared equal in the sight of God--nevertheless it does contain a very
lofty law of righteousness applicable to all mankind. It is because of their universality that
the books of Job and Ecclesiastes, as also many passages in the Psalms, in Isaiah, and the
minor prophets, have made an undying appeal to the human race. But the Jewish religion now
takes its stand on the Talmud rather than on the Bible. "The modern Jew," one of its latest
Jewish translators observes, "is the product of the Talmud."[805] The Talmud itself accords
to the Bible only a secondary place. Thus the Talmudic treatise Soferim says: "The Bible is
like water, the Mischna is like wine, and the Gemara is like spiced wine."

Now, the Talmud is not a law of righteousness for all mankind, but a meticulous code applying
to the Jew alone. No human being outside the Jewish race could possibly go to the Talmud for
help or comfort. In the Talmud, on the contrary, as Drach points out, "the precepts of justice,
of equity, of charity towards one's neighbour, are not only not applicable with regard to the
Christian, but constitute a crime in anyone who would act differently.... The Talmud expressly
forbids one to save a non-Jew from death, ... to restore lost goods, etc., to him, to have
pity on him."[806]

How far the Talmud has contributed to the anti-social tendencies of modern Judaism is shown
by the fact that the Karaites living in the south of Russia, the only body of Jews which takes
its stand on the Bible, and not on the Talmud,--of which it only accepts such portions as are
in accordance with Bible teaching--have always shown themselves good subjects of the Russian
Empire, and have therefore enjoyed equal rights with the Russian people around them. Catherine
the Great particularly favoured the Karaites.

Thus even the Jews are not unanimous in supporting the Talmud; indeed, as we have already seen,
many Jews have protested against it as a barrier between themselves and the rest of the human race.

But it is in the Cabala, still more than in the Talmud, that the Judaic dream of world-domination
recurs with the greatest persistence. The Zohar indeed refers to this as a fait accompli, explaining
that "the Feast of Tabernacles is the period when Israel triumphs over the other people of
the world; that is why during this feast we seize the Loulab [branches of trees tied together]
and carry it as a trophy to show that we have conquered all the other peoples known as 'populace'
and that we dominate them."[807] God is, however, asked to accord these other peoples a certain
share of blessings, "so that occupied with this share they shall not participate nor mingle
with the joy of Israel when he calls down blessings from on high." The situation may thus be
compared with that of a king who, wishing to give a feast to his special friends, finds his
house invaded by importunate governors demanding admittance. "What then does the king do? He
orders the governors to be served with beef and vegetables, which are common food, and then
sits down to table with his friends and has the most delicious dishes served."[808]

But this is nothing to the feasting that is to take place when the Messianic era arrives. After
the return of the Jews from all nations and parts of the world to Palestine, the Messiah, we
are told in the Talmud, will entertain them at a gorgeous banquet, where they will be seated
at golden tables and regaled with wine from Adam's wine-cellar. The first course is to consist
of a roasted ox named Behemoth, so immense that every day it eats up the grass upon a thousand
hills; the second of a monstrous fish Leviathan; the third of a female Leviathan boiled and
pickled; the fourth of a gigantic roast fowl known as Barjuchne, of which the egg alone was
so enormous that when it fell out of the nest it crushed three hundred tall cedars and the
white overflowed threescore villages. This course is to be followed up by "the most splendid
and pompous Dessert" that can be procured, including fruit from the Tree of Life and "the Pomegranates
of Eden which are preserved for the Just."

At the end of the banquet "God will entertain the company at a ball"; He Himself will sit in
the midst of them, and everyone will point Him out with his finger, saying: "Behold, this is
our God: we have waited for Him, we will be glad and rejoice in His salvation."[809]

The eighteenth-century commentator, whose summary of these passages we quote, goes on to observe:

     But let us see a little after what manner the Jews are to live in
     their ancient Country under the Administration of the Messiah. In
     the First Place, the strange Nations, which they shall suffer to
     live, shall build them Houses and Cities, till them Ground, and
     plant them Vineyards; and all this, without so much as looking for
     any Reward of their Labour. These surviving Nations will likewise
     voluntarily offer them all their Wealth and Furniture: And Princes
     and Nobles shall attend them; and be ready at their Nod to pay them
     all Manner of Obedience; while they themselves shall be surrounded
     with Grandeur and Pleasure, appearing abroad in Apparel glittering
     with Jewels like Priests of the Unction, consecrated to God....

     In a word, the felicity of this Holy Nation, in the Times of the
     Messiah, will be such, that the exalted Condition of it cannot
     enter into the Conception of Man; much less can it be couched in
     human Expression. This is what the Rabbis say of it. But the
     intelligent reader will doubtless pronounce it the Paradise of
     Fools.[810]

It is interesting to notice that this conception of the manner in which the return to Palestine
is to be carried out has descended to certain of the modern colonists. Sir George Adam Smith,
after watching Zionism at work in 1918, wrote:

     On visiting a recently established Jewish colony in the north-east
     of the land, round which a high wall had been built by the
     munificent patron, I found the colonists sitting in its shade
     gambling away the morning, while groups of fellahin at a poor
     wage did the cultivation for them. I said that this was surely not
     the intention of their patron in helping them to settle on land of
     their own. A Jew replied to me in German: "Is it not written: The
     sons of the alien shall be your ploughmen and vinedressers?" I know
     that such delinquencies have become the exception in Jewish
     colonization of Palestine, but they are symptomatic of dangers
     which will have to be guarded against.[811]

The fellahin may, however, consider themselves lucky to be allowed to live at all, for, according
to several passages in the Cabala, all the goyim are to be swept off the face of the earth
when Israel comes into its own. Thus the Zohar relates that the Messiah will declare war on
the whole world and all the kings of the world will end by declaring war on the Messiah. But
"the Holy One, blessed be He, will display His force and exterminate them from the world."[812]
Then:

     Happy will be the lot of Israel, whom the Holy One, blessed be He,
     has chosen from amongst the goyim of whom the Scriptures say:
     "Their work is but vanity, it is an illusion at which we must
     laugh; they will all perish when God visits them in His wrath." At
     the moment when the Holy One, blessed be He, will exterminate all
     the goyim of the world, Israel alone will subsist, even as it is
     written: "The Lord alone will appear great on that day."[813]

The hope of world-domination is therefore not an idea attributed to the Jews by "anti-Semites,"
but a very real and essential part of their traditions. What then of their attitude to Christianity
in the past? We have already seen that hatred of the person and teaching of Christ did not
end at Golgotha, but was kept alive by the Rabbis and perpetuated in the Talmud and the Toledot
Yeshu. The Cabala also contains passages referring both to Christ and to Mohammed so unspeakably
foul that it would be impossible to quote them here.

But it will be urged: the Jews of Western Europe to-day know nothing of the Cabala. This may
be so, yet imperceptibly the Cabala has moulded the mind of the Jew. As a modern Jewish writer
has declared:

     [Kabbalism] has contributed to the formation of modern Judaism,
     for, without the influence of the Kabbala, Judaism to-day might
     have been one-sided, lacking in warmth and imagination. Indeed, so
     deeply has it penetrated into the body of the faith that many ideas
     and prayers are now immovably rooted in the general body of
     orthodox doctrine and practice. This element has not only become
     incorporated, but it has fixed its hold on the affections of the
     Jews and cannot be eradicated.[814]

It is thus not in the law of Moses thundered from Sinai, not in the dry ritual of the Talmud,
but in the stupendous imaginings of the Cabala, that the real dreams and aspirations of Jewry
have been transmitted through the ages. Belief in the coming Messiah may burn low, but faith
in the final triumph of Israel over the other nations of the world still glows in the hearts
of a race nurtured on this hope from time immemorial. Even the free-thinking Jew must unconsciously
react to the promptings of this vast and ancient ambition. As a modern French writer has expressed
it:

     Assuredly sectarian Freethinkers swarm, who flatter themselves on
     having borrowed nothing from the synagogue and on hating equally
     Jehovah and Jesus. But the modern Jewish world is itself also
     detached from any supernatural belief, and the Messianic tradition,
     of which it preserves the cult, reduces itself to considering the
     Jewish race as the veritable Messiah[815].

Some colour is lent to this statement by an article which recently appeared in the Jewish press,
in which it is explained that, according to the teaching of the "Liberal Jewish Synagogue,"
the beautiful passages in the fifty-third chapter of Isaiah concerning "the Man of Sorrows
acquainted with grief," usually supposed by Christians to relate to the promised Messiah, are
interpreted to modern Jewish youth as relating to Israel and signifying that Israel's "sufferings
were caused by the sins of other nations," who thus "escaped the suffering they deserved."
Consequently "Israel has suffered for the sake of the whole world[816]." How this amazing pretension
can be maintained in view of the perpetual denunciations of the Israelites throughout the whole
of the Old Testament is difficult to imagine. On their entry into Canaan they were distinctly
told by Moses that the Lord their God had not given them "this good land" on account of their
righteousness or the uprightness of their hearts[817]; long afterwards Daniel declared that
all Israel had transgressed the law of God[818]; Nehemiah showed that on account of their rebellion
and disobedience they had been delivered into the hands of their enemies[819]. It is doubtful
indeed whether by the majority of Jews the Bible is now regarded as divinely inspired. "The
ten commandments which we gave to mankind[821]" is a phrase typical of the manner in which
Israel now arrogates to itself the sole authorship of the Scriptures. The deification of humanity
by the Freemasons of the Grand Orient finds its counterpart in the deification of Israel by
the modern Jew.

It is here that we must surely see the cause of much of the suffering the Jews have endured
in the past. No one of course would justify the cruelty with which they have frequently been
treated; nevertheless to maintain there was no provocation on the part of the Jews would be
absurd. A race that has always considered itself entitled to occupy a privileged position amongst
the nations of the world must inevitably meet with resentment, and in a primitive age or population
resentment is apt to find a vent in violence shocking to the civilized mind. Moreover, to represent
the Jews as a gentle long-suffering people, always the victims but never the perpetrators of
violence, is absolutely contrary to historic fact. In the dark ages of the past the Jews showed
themselves perfectly capable of cruelties not only towards other races but towards each other.
One of the first pogroms recorded in the Christian era was carried out by the Jews themselves.
The Jewish historian Josephus describes the reign of "lawlessness and barbarity" that was inaugurated
about the middle of the first century A.D. by the band of assassins known as the Sicarii, who
infested the country round Jerusalem and, by means of little daggers that they wore concealed
beneath their garments, "slew men in the daytime and in the midst of the city, especially at
the festivals when they mixed with the multitude." During one night raid on the small town
of Engaddi they massacred more than seven hundred women and children.[822] And Josephus goes
on to say:

     Somehow, indeed, that was a time most fertile in all manner of
     wicked practices among the Jews, insomuch that no kind of villainy
     was then left undone; nor could anyone so much as devise any bad
     thing that was new if he wished. So deeply were they all infected,
     both privately and publicly, and vied with one another who should
     run the greatest lengths in impiety towards God, and in unjust
     actions towards their neighbours, men in power oppressing the
     multitude, and the multitude earnestly endeavouring to destroy men
     in power.[823]

It is futile then to maintain as do the Jews and their friends--for the pro-Jew is frequently
plus royaliste que le roi--that all the faults of the modern Jew are to be attributed to bitterness
engendered by persecution. Judaism has always contained an element of cruelty[824] which finds
expression in the Talmud. It is from the Talmud, not from the Mosaic law, that the inhuman
methods of Jewish slaughtering are derived.[825] The Talmud likewise gives the most horrible
directions for carrying out capital punishment, particularly with regard to women, by the methods
of stoning, burning, choking, or slaying with the sword. The victim condemned to be burnt is
to have a scarf wound round his neck, the two ends pulled tightly by the executioners whilst
his mouth is forced open with pincers and a lighted string thrust into it "so that it flows
down through his inwards and shrinks his entrails."[826]

It will be said that all this belongs to the past. True, the practice here described may be
considered obsolete, but the spirit of cruelty and intolerance that dictated it is still alive.
One has only to study the modern Jewish press to realize the persecution to which Jews are
subjected from members of their own race should they infringe one fraction of the Jewish code.

If, then, "the modern Jew is the product of the Talmud," it is here that we must see the principal
obstacle to Jewish progress. It is said that Isaac Disraeli, the father of Lord Beaconsfield,
gave as his reason for withdrawing from the Synagogue that Rabbinical Judaism with its unyielding
laws and fettering customs "cuts off the Jews from the great family of mankind."[827] Such
a system is indeed absolutely incompatible not only with Christian teaching but with the secular
ideas of Western civilization. The attitude it adopts towards women would be in itself sufficient
to justify this assertion. The Jewish daily prayer, "Blessed be Thou, O Lord our God, King
of the universe, that Thou has not made me a woman!"[828] is a ludicrous anachronism in the
present age. According to the Talmud a service can take place in the Synagogue only if ten
persons are present, which number ensures the presence of God in the assembly. Drach explains
however that these persons must all be men. "If then there were nine men and a million women
there could be no assembly, for the reason that women are nothing. But there arrives [on the
scene] only one small boy of thirteen years and a day, at once there can be a holy assembly
and, according to our Doctors, it is permitted to God to be present[829]."

When therefore we say that we must respect the Jewish religion we cannot, if we know anything
about it, mean that we respect that portion of it which is founded on the Rabbinical traditions
of the Talmud and the Cabala, but only that ethical law set forth in the Old Testament, to
which right-living Jews have faithfully adhered and which is largely in accord with Christian
teaching.

Let us not forget that Rabbinical Judaism is the declared and implacable enemy of Christianity.
Hatred of Christianity and of the person of Christ is not a matter of remote history, nor can
it be regarded as the result of persecution; it forms an integral part of Rabbinical tradition
which originated before any persecution of the Jews by Christians had taken place, and has
continued in our country long after all such persecution has ended.

It is here that we cannot fail to detect the origin of much of that virulent anti-Christian
teaching that is being disseminated in our midst to-day. This teaching will be observed to
follow three lines, of which the course has been traced throughout this book. These consist
in desecrating the Christian tradition by declaring that Christ was either (a) a myth, (b)
a purely human teacher endowed with superior virtue and knowledge of natural laws, (c) a crazy
fanatic[830] or a malefactor. The first two theories are, as we have seen, those held by secret
societies; the last is essentially Jewish. It is true that there is now a movement amongst
the more enlightened Jews to recognize Jesus as a great teacher; so far, unfortunately, this
is met by bitter hostility from the rest, and in the current Jewish press contemptuous and
even blasphemous references to Christ and the Christian faith frequently occur. The fact that
here in England, for nearly three hundred years, the Jews have been allowed to dwell in peace
and carry out their religious rites unmolested, that they have been admitted to society, to
masonic lodges, and to all offices of State and have met with increasing tolerance and favour,
has done nothing to moderate that hatred of Christianity inculcated throughout nineteen centuries
of Rabbinical teaching. Thus, for example, under the heading of "What Christianity has Meant,"
we read in a modern Jewish periodical:

     We are thinking of what Christianity as an institution has meant to
     us Jews. The twenty centuries of its existence have been coeval
     with the long-drawn tragedy of the Jew's dispersal among the
     nations.... What kindliness and consideration we have received at
     the hands of Christianity has for the most part been tendered with
     the lure of the baptismal font. To the extent to which
     Christianity's embodiment, the Church, has been puissant has the
     Jewish tragedy deepened. Only when and where the Church has been
     weak has life been tolerable for the Jew.... Hatred of the Jew,
     anti-Jewish outbursts and anti-Semitic campaigns, are traceable to
     nothing so surely as to antipathy to the Jew which has been inbred
     by Christianity.... There is thus precious little about which the
     Jew has for rejoicing and gladness in the institution of
     Christianity, etc.[831]

The most cursory study of history would reveal the falseness of this contention. Antipathy
to the Jew began long before the Christian era; in Egypt, Persia, and Rome he became, whether
just or not, the object of suspicion to rulers. It was not simply the possession of wealth--which
according to the Socialist creed should justify any amount of hatred--but the manner in which
it was acquired and the arrogance with which it was displayed that roused popular feeling against
the Jews. An Arab Fakih, Abu Ishak of Elvira, thus warned his master of the growing power of
the Jews in Spain in the middle of the eleventh century A.D.:

     The Jews, contemptible outcasts, have become great lords, and their
     pride and arrogance know no bounds.... Take not such men for thy
     ministers, but abandon them to curses, for the whole earth crieth
     out against them--ere long it will quake and we shall all perish.
     Turn thine eyes to other lands and behold how the Jews are treated
     as dogs, and kept apart....

     I came to Granada, and there I beheld the Jews reigning. They had
     parcelled out the provinces and the capital between them:
     everywhere one of these accursed ruled. They collected the taxes,
     they made good cheer, they were sumptuously clad, while your
     garments, O Moslems, were old and worn-out. All the secrets of
     state were known to them; yet is it folly to put trust in traitors!
     While believers ate the bread of poverty, they dined delicately in
     the palace.... How can we thrive if we live in the shade and the
     Jews dazzle us with the glory of their pride?[834]

In mediæval France the chief cause for complaint against the Jews is that of not working with
their hands but of enriching themselves by "excessive usury." In the fifteenth century the
Strasbourg preacher Geyler asks: "Are the Jews above the Christians? Why will they not work
with their hands?... practising usury is not working. It is exploiting others whilst remaining
idle."[835] Such quotations as these might be multiplied ad infinitum.

To attribute the persecution of the Jews to Christianity is therefore ludicrous. That in a
less enlightened age the Church should have adopted rigorous measures--although no more rigorous
than their own laws demanded--against those Jews who practised magic and witchcraft must appear
deplorable to the modern mind, but so must many other phases of mediæval life. Why then hark
back perpetually to the past? If the Jews were persecuted in a less enlightened age, so were
many other sections of the community. Catholics were persecuted, Protestants were persecuted,
men were placed in the stocks for minor offences, scolding women were ducked in the village
pond. But if all these cruelties of the dark ages are to be remembered and perpetuated on the
plan of a tribal blood-feud, what peace can there be for the world? The disastrous results
of this tendency were seen in the Irish Intellectuals, nourished from infancy on the story
of Ireland's wrongs, who, instead of sanely facing present problems, unhinged their minds by
brooding on historic grievances, thereby sealing their own doom and plunging their country
into ruin. So, too, the enraged Feminists, harking back to injustices that had long ceased
to exist, embittered their lives by proclaiming themselves the eternal enemies of Man. Emerson,
the prophet of sanity, declared: "The only ballast I know is a respect to the present hour."
It is for lack of this ballast that the Jews have become victims of a fanaticism in which Christians
from a mistaken idea of kindness have frequently encouraged them. In reality nothing is more
cruel than to encourage in the minds of a nervous race the idea of persecution; true kindness
to the Jews would consist in urging them to throw off memories of past martyrdom and to enter
healthfully into the enjoyment of their present blessings, which are the direct outcome of
Christian civilization.

Let us consider what Christianity has in reality done for the Jews. If so much is to be said
about the persecutions they have endured, what of the extraordinary indulgence shown them as
the result of Christian respect for the Bible? For hundreds of years Christian school children
have been brought up on Old Testament history and Christian congregations have listened sympathetically
to the story of Israel's sufferings and hopes of final restoration. All the support lent to
Zionism arose from this tradition. Christianity, then, so reviled by the Jews, has been their
greatest protection. If Christianity goes, the whole theory that the Jews were once the Chosen
People goes with it as far as Gentiles are concerned, and the Jewish race, divested of its
halo of divine favour, will have to be judged on its own merits.

In our own country, the Chosen People theory has in fact been carried to the point of superstition--a
superstition immensely advantageous to the Jews--which consists in interpreting the passage
of Scripture containing the promise made to Abraham, "I will bless them that bless thee, and
curse them that curseth thee," as meaning that favour shown to the Jews--who form merely a
fraction of the seed of Abraham--brings with it peculiar blessings. In reality it would be
easier to show by history that countries and rulers who have protected the Jews have frequently
met with disaster. France banished the Jews in 1394 and again in 1615, and did not readmit
them in large numbers till 1715-19, so that they were absent throughout the most glorious period
in French history--the Grand Siècle of Louis XIV--whilst their return coincided with the Regency,
from which moment the monarchy of France may be said to have declined. England likewise banished
the Jews in 1290, and it was during the three and a half centuries they remained in exile that
she was known as "Merrie England." The fact that their return in force in 1664 was followed
the next year by the Great Plague and the year after by the Great Fire of London would not
appear to indicate that the Jews necessarily bring good fortune to the land that protects them.
The truth is, of course, that kindness to any portion of the human race brings its own reward
in the form of moral improvement in the individual or nation that performs it, but no more
benefit attaches to philanthropy when exercised towards the Jew than towards the Chinaman.

I would urge, then, that the Jewish problem should be approached neither in the spirit of superstitious
pro-Semitism nor in the bitter spirit of "anti-Semitism," but with a sanity worthy of an enlightened
age. To quote again the words of Bernard Lazare, let us enquire what part "the Jew, considering
his spirit, his character, the nature of his philosophy and his religion," may now be taking
"in revolutionary processes and movements." Is there, then, any evidence that there exists
amongst Jewry to-day an organized conspiracy having for its objects world-domination and the
destruction of Christianity such as the famous Protocols of the Elders of Zion suggest?[836]

The theory of a Jewish world-conspiracy does not, of course, rest on the evidence of Protocols.
To judge by the pæans of joy that rang through the press after the publication of the Times
articles, one would imagine that with the so-called "refutation" of this one document the whole
case against the Jews had collapsed and that the "anti-Semites" must be for ever silenced.
But the arguments of the Jews and their friends go further than this; not only do they claim
that there is no Jewish conspiracy, but no world-plot of any kind. This contention they had
indeed maintained from the beginning, and Mr. Lucien Wolf, in his earliest "refutation" of
the Protocols, derided the exponents of the secret-society danger as vehemently as he derided
the perfidious author of the Jewish Peril. It will in fact always be noticed that references
to the Illuminati meet with almost as much resentment from the Jewish press as allusions of
a directly "anti-Semitic" character. Barruel, who refused to incriminate the Jews, and de Malet,
who never referred to them at all, are denounced by Mr. Lucien Wolf no less as scaremongers
than Gougenot des Mousseaux or Chabauty. To suggest that any Hidden Hand has ever been at work
in the world is to raise immediately a storm of Jewish protest.

Yet intelligent Jews must be well aware that, whether secret societies have contributed as
much to past revolutions as these writers believed, their existence and their very real influence
is not a matter of surmise but of historical fact. No one ever warned the British public more
distinctly of the danger they presented or of the role the Jews were playing in them than Disraeli,
whose famous words have been quoted so frequently in this connexion: "The world is governed
by very different personages from what is imagined by those who are not behind the scenes."
What is this but a clear recognition of the Hidden Hand? Why, then, is Disraeli not included
with Barruel, Robison, de Malet, and Des Mousseaux in Mr. Wolf's list of scaremongers? Is it
because Disraeli pointed the moral that, Jews being so dangerous, they should be employed?

       *       *       *       *       *

If, then, leading Jews persist in villifying everyone who reiterates the warnings uttered by
so eminent a member of their race, it is inevitable that they should come to be suspected of
having some interest in suppressing further revelations.

Setting all such evidence as the Protocols completely aside, let us examine the reasons for
believing in the exisence of a Jewish world-conspiracy. Now, we know for certain that the five
powers before referred to--Grand Orient Masonry, Theosophy, Pan-Germanism, International Finance,
and Social Revolution--have a very real existence and exercise a very definite influence on
the affairs of the world. Here we are not dealing with hypothesis but with facts based on documentary
evidence. We know in each case the names of many of the leaders, their methods of organization,
their centres of direction, and the aims they are pursuing. But with regard to the Jewish power
we cannot proceed with the same certainty. We cannot cite the names of the leaders or the centres
of direction, we cannot produce documentary evidence as to their methods of organization or
their final aims. The very existence of such a power, in the sense of a united and organized
body of Jews working for the destruction of Christianity and the existing social system, is
still a matter of speculation and not of known fact. Investigations into the activities of
such groups as the B'nai B'rith, Poale Zion, the Jewish Bund, and the Weltverband (or Jewish
International Union of Socialists), might however throw much light on this question. The custom
of printing their pidgin German, known as Yiddish, in Hebrew characters provides the Jews with
a more or less secret code by means of which their ideas and aspirations are concealed from
the great mass of the Gentiles.

Whether then the Jewish power is unified or not, Jews are to be found co-operating with, if
not directing, all the five powers of which the existence is known. Thus Jews have long played
a leading part in Grand Orient Masonry[837] and predominate in the upper degrees. As we have
already seen, Freemasonry is always said to be subversive in Roman Catholic countries. It will
also be noticed that in countries where Freemasonry is subversive, Jews are usually less conspicuous
in the revolutionary movement than in countries where Freemasonry is either non-existent or
constitutional. Thus in France the masonic peril is much more generally recognized than the
Jewish peril; in Italy the Freemasons have been banned by Mussolini, but the Jews are not regarded
by him as a particular danger; in Portugal it was the Freemasons rather than the Jews who made
the recent revolutions. In Hungary, however, the revolutionaries were principally both Jews
and Freemasons. On the other hand, in England, Germany, and America, where Freemasonry is not
subversive, the Jewish question is more apparent. All this would suggest that either Freemasonry
is the cover under which the Jews, like the Illuminati, prefer to work, so that where the cover
is not available they are obliged to come out more into the open, or that Grand Orient Masonry
is the directing power which employs Jews as agents in those countries where it cannot work
on its own account.

The preponderance of Jews in the ranks of "Aurora" has already been indicated, as also the
influence of the Jewish Cabala in the teaching of Theosophy and Rosicrucianism. But it is important
that the latter point should be further emphasized in connexion with the craze for occultism
that is spreading through society. Ragon has said: "The Cabala is the key of all occult sciences";
therefore in this field of experiment the Gentile must always be at a disadvantage with the
Jew. Indeed Mr. Waite, who certainly cannot be suspected of "anti-Semitism," goes so far as
to suggest that the gift of ceremonial magic was "the answer of Jewry to Christendom as a counter-blast"
to "centuries of persecution."[838] It would be well if every Gentile who has been tempted
to dabble in occultism were to realize this source of inspiration.

The rôle of Jews in social revolution and particularly in Bolshevism hardly needs comment.
Yet since the Jewish press has chosen to deny this last and very obvious fact and still persists
in setting down to prejudice or "anti-Semitism" a mere statement of facts, it may be well to
quote here a few official statements on the subject which admit of no denial.

First of all, it must be remembered that the founder and patron saint of Bolshevism was the
Jew Karl Marx, and that it was the Anarchist Bakunin, not the Duke of Northumberland, who described
him and his following in the Internationale as "the German-Jew Company" and the "red bureaucracy."
It was therefore not surprising that when the "red bureaucracy," avowedly founded on the doctrines
of Marx, came to be set up in Russia, it should have been largely led by Jews. This is what
the official British White Paper has to say on the matter:

Extract from Report from the Netherlands Minister at Petrograd on the 6th of September, 1918,
forwarded by Sir M. Findlay, at Christiania, to Mr. Balfour:

     I consider that the immediate suppression of Bolshevism is the
     greatest issue now before the world, not even excluding the war
     which is still raging, and unless, as above stated, Bolshevism is
     nipped in the bud immediately, it is bound to spread in one form or
     another over Europe and the whole world, as it is organized and
     worked by Jews who have no nationality, and whose one object is to
     destroy for their own ends the existing order of things.*[839]

Mr. Alston to Lord Curzon, quoting statement from British Consul at Ekaterinburg, January 23, 1919:

     The Bolsheviks can no longer be described as a political party
     holding extreme communistic views. They form a relatively small
     privileged class which is able to terrorize the rest of the
     population because it has a monopoly both of arms and of food
     supplies. This class consists chiefly of workmen and soldiers, and
     includes a large non-Russian element, such as Letts and Esthonians
     and Jews; the latter are specially numerous in higher posts.

Lord Kilmarnock to Lord Curzon, quoting information given by Frenchman from Petrograd, February
3, 1919:

     The Bolsheviks comprised chiefly Jews and Germans, who were
     exceedingly active and enterprising. The Russians were largely
     anti-Bolshevik, but were for the most part dreamers, incapable of
     any sustained action, who now, more than ever before, were unable
     to throw off the yoke of their oppressors.*[839]

Mr. Alston to Lord Curzon, forwarding Report from Consul at Ekaterinburg of February 6, 1919:

     From examination of several labourer and peasant witnesses, I have
     evidence to the effect that very smallest percentage of this
     district were pro-Bolshevik, majority of labourers sympathizing
     with summoning of Constituent Assembly. Witnesses further stated
     that Bolshevik leaders did not represent Russian working classes,
     most of them being Jews.

The Rev. B.S. Lombard to Lord Curzon, March 23, 1919:

     I have been for ten years in Russia, and have been in Petrograd
     through the whole of the revolution.... [I] had ample opportunity
     of studying Bolshevik methods. It originated in German propaganda,
     and was, and is being, carried out by international Jews.

As one of the results, the writer adds:

     All business became paralysed, shops were closed, Jews became
     possessors of most of the business houses, and horrible scenes of
     starvation became common in the country districts.

In Hungary (where, as has been said, Socialism had been propagated by Jews in the masonic lodges[840])
the outbreak of Bolshevism was conducted under the auspices of the same race. To quote again
an official document on this question, the Report on Revolutionary Activities issued by a Committee
of the New York Legislature, headed by Senator Lusk[841]:

     There was no organized opposition to Bela Kun. Like Lenin, he
     surrounded himself with commissars, having absolute authority. Of
     the thirty-two principal commissars, twenty-five were Jews, which
     was about the same proportion as in Russia. The most prominent of
     these formed a directorate of five: Bela Kun, Bela Varga, Joseph
     Pogany, Sigmund Kunfi, and one other. Other leaders were Alpari
     and Samuely, who had charge of the Red Terror, and carried out the
     torturing and executing of the bourgeoisie, especially the groups
     held as hostages, the so-called counter-revolutionists and
     peasants.[842]

The same Report publishes a list of seventy-six men prosecuted by the Committee on the charge
of criminal anarchy in America at the beginning of 1920, of which the overwhelming majority
are seen by their names to be Jewish.[843]

These names speak for themselves and are published without comment on the obvious nationality
of the majority of the persons concerned. So far indeed does the Lusk Committee appear to have
been removed from "anti-Semitism," that nowhere in its vast Report, running to 2008 pages,
is attention drawn to the preponderance of Jews concerned in the revolutionary movement, except
in the one passage on Hungary quoted above. The Lusk Report must therefore be regarded as an
absolutely impartial statement of facts.

In view of these official data, how is it possible for the Jewish press to pretend that a connexion
between Jews and Bolshevism is a malicious invention of the "anti-Semites"? That all Jews are
not Bolsheviks and that all Bolsheviks are not Jews is of course obvious; but that Jews are
playing a preponderating part in Bolshevism it is absurd to deny.

An attempt has been made to show that Jews have suffered as much as the rest of the population
in Russia under Bolshevism and that the Jewish religion has met with the same hostility as
the Christian faith. Doubtless many Jews have suffered in Russia, since human violence, once
allowed to go unchecked, is liable to express itself in various unexpected ways, and the resentment
of the Russian "proletariat" towards the Jews was bound to break out under Lenin as under the
Tzar. Again, a campaign against Christianity inevitably led in Russia, as in France, to a campaign
against all forms of religion, and the Jewish Bolsheviks, being atheists themselves, were doubtless
as ready as Lambert of the French Revolution to turn against the believers in the faith they
had abandoned.

Yet that the Jewish religion suffered to the same extent as Christianity, or that any organized
campaign was conducted against it by the Government, is effectually disproved by the lamentations
of professing Jews on the death of Lenin.[844] Indeed, as is generally recognized, the fall
of the Soviet Government must mean the downfall of the Jews from the position of privilege
they now occupy.

That in our own country Jews are playing a part in the background of Bolshevism is again evident.
The Patriot recently published a series of articles giving inside information on the organization
of the revolutionary movement in Great Britain, where it was stated the whole plot was directed
by a group of twelve men. This group in turn was controlled by three of its members. These
three men, as the key revealed, were all Jews, so also was "the fiend in human form whose psychological
perversion produced this plot,"[845] and who was one of a group in America consisting of four
Jews and a Jewess which controlled an outer revolutionary group of eighteen.[846] The Irish
Republican Brotherhood also maintained close relations with a ring of revolutionary Jews in
America. Incidentally, it is curious to notice that the language employed in some of the correspondence
that has passed between members of an inner group bears a strong resemblance to that of Weishaupt
and his fellow-Illuminati.

Jewish influence in the less extreme forms of Socialism in this country is no less apparent.
If the Labour Party is solidly pro-German, it is also solidly pro-Jewish. Whilst loudly proclaiming
pacifism and pressing for the reduction of armaments, it has never uttered a word of protest
against the employment of British troops to defend Jewish interests against the Arabs in Palestine.
The blessed word Mesopotamia may be freely mentioned in connexion with the withdrawal of troops
from military adventures, but never the word Palestine. Again, the free admission of aliens
and particularly of Jews into this country has always been one of the principal planks in the
Labour platform. Even the Jewish capitalist meets with indulgence at the hands of our Socialist
Intellectuals, who whilst inveighing against British owners of property, never include Jewish
millionaires in their diatribes.

This may perhaps throw some light on the question frequently propounded: How can one believe
that Jews advocate Socialism since they stand to lose everything by it? The fact remains that
many Jews do advocate it. After the recent accession of the Labour Party to office the Jewish
World observed:

     The result of the General Election in England is regarded as very
     gratifying by the Hebrew and Yiddish press. The Hebrew journals in
     Palestine, as well as the Hebrew and Yiddish organs in Europe and
     America, express satisfaction at the return to Parliament of men
     who have repeatedly assured the public of their intention to adhere
     to the Balfour declaration.[847]

A further reason is advanced by the Jewish Courier for rejoicing at the downfall of the Conservative
Government, namely, that "the election results have wiped out anti-Semitic remnants in England,"
for "the Conservative Government does include several members who are far from favourably disposed
towards Jews."[848] The indulgence shown to the Jews and the honours piled on them by Conservative
statesmen therefore availed nothing to the Conservative cause, and the welfare of the whole
country was subordinated to the interests of the Jews alone.

It is difficult at first to understand how the programme of the "Labour" Party, even when combined
with ardent pro-Semitism, could however be in accord with the interests of the Jews, who have
never displayed any hostility towards the Capitalist system which Socialism sets out to destroy.
Indeed, we find the same Jewish paper which rejoiced at the advent of the present Government
to office offering birthday congratulations to the richest Jew in this country, whose wealth,
it goes on to observe with some complacency, "amounts to no less than £12,000,000 sterling,
and is constantly increasing, apart from the interest that it brings, by the huge profits of
the concerns in which he is interested."[849]

It would seem, then, that in the eyes of Jewry all capitalists are not to be regarded as monsters
who should be mercilessly expropriated.

But in considering the war on Capitalism it is essential to bear in mind that capitalists are
of two kinds: national industrial capitalists--largely Gentiles and usually men of brains and
energy who have built up flourishing businesses--and international loan-mongering capitalists,
principally, though not exclusively, Jews, who live by speculation. Whilst to the former, social
unrest may prove fatal, to the latter any disturbances may provide opportunities for profit.
As M. Georges Batault has well expressed it:

     From the strictly financial point of view, the most disastrous
     events of history, wars or revolutions, never represent
     catastrophes; the manipulators of money and the wary business men
     can make profit out of everything, provided they know beforehand
     and are well-informed.... It is certain that the Jews dispersed
     over all the surface of the earth ... are particularly favourably
     situated in this respect.[850]

It is significant to notice that the capitalists most attacked by the Socialists and Pacifists
are not those who make profit out of wars and revolutions, but those who contribute to the
prosperity of the country and provide work for millions of people. Here, then, the Jews and
the Socialists seem to find a point of agreement. It is evident, at any rate, that many rich
Jews consider that they have nothing to fear from the threatened Capital Levy and other features
of expropriation. Are we not irresistibly reminded of the passage in the Protocols--where incidentally
the Capital Levy is specifically mentioned--"Ours they will not touch, because the moment of
attack will be known to us and we shall take measures to protect our own"?

But let us consider further how the Socialist plan for "the nationalization of all the means
of production, distribution, and exchange" might be reconciled even with the interests of Jewish
Industrial Capitalists. The more we examine this magic formula which is to transform the world
into a Paradise for the workers, the more we shall see that it approximates to the system of
Super Capitalism, of which, as Werner Sombart has shown, the Jews were the principal inaugurators.
Socialists are fond of explaining that "Capitalism" began with the introduction of steam; in
reality, of course, Capitalism, in the sense of wealth accumulated in private hands, has always
existed since the first savage made his store of winter food. What Socialists really mean by
Capitalism is the modern system of Industrialism, which tends to concentrate all the means
of production and distribution in the hands of individuals or groups, who, if they happen to
be unscrupulous, are able by systematic sweating of the worker and bleeding of the consumer
to conduct operations on so large a scale as to crush all competition by the home worker or
the small tradesman.

Obviously, however, with the growing demand of the workers for better conditions of life and
the increasing support lent to them by enlightened public opinion this possibility cannot continue
indefinitely, and unless a violent convulsion takes place the time will come when great industrial
magnates will have to content themselves with moderate profits on their outlay. Thus although
at first sight it might appear that the Super-Capitalist must desire to maintain the existing
order of things, if he is far-seeing he must realize that profiteering under present conditions
must soon cease.

It is therefore conceivable that even the Jewish Industrial Capitalist may see in the nationalization
of industry a preferable alternative to the limitation of profits under private enterprise.
The same financial acumen and skill in management which has enabled him to control rings and
trusts in the past would ensure him a place at the head of nationalized industries, which in
effect would be nothing but gigantic trusts nominally under State control but really, like
all State enterprises, in the hands of a few men. Under Socialism the position of these trusts
would be rendered impregnable. For whilst under the present system any individual or group
may set out to break a trust, no such competition would be possible in a State where private
enterprise had been made illegal. The men in control of nationalized industries would therefore
be able to exercise absolute authority both over the worker and the consumer. Further, if the
worker can be persuaded to accept the ultimate scheme of Communism, which is compulsory labour
in return for no monetary remuneration, but merely a daily ration of food and the other necessaries
of life whenever State officials decide that he requires them, the directors of Labour, like
the overseers in a slave plantation, will be able, as in Russia, to impose any conditions they
please.

The Jews may well hope to occupy these posts, not only because of their aptitude for organization
on so large a scale, but because their international relations would facilitate the sale or
barter of goods between countries. The cohesion which exists amongst them would speedily lead
to the monopolization of all the higher posts by members of their race.

It is idle to dismiss such a possibility as a chimera. This is what happened in Russia and
is happening in Germany to-day. Here, then, we may find perhaps the inner meaning of a remark
attributed to a prominent member of the Labour Party, that under Socialism a certain well-known
Jewish capitalist might well be worth £10,000 a year. Lenin expressed much the same idea when
he said that the Russian Soviet Republic might require a thousand first-class specialists "to
direct the work of the people," and that "these greatest 'stars' must be paid 25,000 roubles
each," or even four times that sum, supposing it were necessary to employ foreign specialists
for the purpose.[851]

But the Jewish capitalists doubtless see further that in England, as in Russia, this condition
of things would be merely a temporary phase, and that the institution of Socialism by dispossessing
the present Gentile owners of wealth and property would pave the way for a Jewish and German
plutocracy. In Russia wealth has not been altogether destroyed; it has simply changed hands,
and a class of new rich has sprung up which meets with no hostility from the professed advocates
of equality. Those Jews who see in the Christian Intelligentsia the main obstacle to their
dream of world-power, therefore naturally find in the promoters of class-warfare their most
valuable allies. For the Christian Intelligentsia is the sole bare to the enslavement of the
proletariat; most of the movements to redress the wrongs of the workers, from Lord Shaftesbury's
onwards, have arisen not amongst the workers themselves, but amongst the upper or middle classes[852];
once these were swept away an iron bureaucracy would have the workers at their mercy. I do
not say this is the plan, but I do say that such a hypothesis provides a reason for the otherwise
unaccountable indulgence displayed by Socialists everywhere towards wealthy Jews and at the
same time for the huge funds the Socialists appear to have at their disposal.

If big financiers are not at their back, I repeat: where does all the money come from? It seems
unlikely that it can be derived from the British owners of wealth and property whom the Socialists
are openly out to dispossess; the only body of financiers which can therefore be suspected
of contributing towards this end is the body known as "International Finance," which is mainly,
though not exclusively, Jewish. Let us now examine what part they are playing in the minor
subversive movements enumerated in an earlier chapter.

Freud, the inventor of the most dangerous form of Psycho-Analysis, is a Jew. In this connexion
the eminent American neuro-psychiatrist before quoted writes:

