PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS OF

JOAN OF ARC

 VOLUME 1 (of 2)

By Mark Twain

Consider this unique and imposing distinction. Since the writing of human history began, Joan
of Arc is the only person, of either sex, who has ever held supreme command of the military
forces of a nation at the age of seventeen

LOUIS KOSSUTH.

Contents

PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS OF JOAN OF ARC

TRANSLATOR'S PREFACE

A PECULIARITY OF JOAN OF ARC'S HISTORY

THE SIEUR LOUIS DE CONTE

BOOK I IN DOMREMY

Chapter 1 When Wolves Ran Free in Paris

Chapter 2 The Fairy Tree of Domremy

Chapter 3 All Aflame with Love of France

Chapter 4 Joan Tames the Mad Man

Chapter 5 Domremy Pillaged and Burned

Chapter 6 Joan and Archangel Michael

Chapter 7 She Delivers the Divine Command

Chapter 8 Why the Scorners Relented

BOOK II IN COURT AND CAMP

Chapter 1 Joan Says Good-By

Chapter 2 The Governor Speeds Joan

Chapter 3 The Paladin Groans and Boasts

Chapter 4 Joan Leads Us Through the Enemy

Chapter 5 We Pierce the Last Ambuscades

Chapter 6 Joan Convinces the King

Chapter 7 Our Paladin in His Glory

Chapter 8 Joan Persuades Her Inquisitors

Chapter 9 She Is Made General-in-Chief

Chapter 10 The Maid's Sword and Banner

Chapter 11 The War March Is Begun

Chapter 12 Joan Puts Heart in Her Army

Chapter 13 Checked by the Folly of the Wise

Chapter 14 What the English Answered

Chapter 15 My Exquisite Poem Goes to Smash

Chapter 16 The Finding of the Dwarf

Chapter 17 Sweet Fruit of Bitter Truth

Chapter 18 Joan's First Battle-Field

Chapter 19 We Burst In Upon Ghosts

Chapter 20 Joan Makes Cowards Brave Victors

Chapter 21 She Gently Reproves Her Dear Friend

Chapter 22 The Fate of France Decided

Chapter 23 Joan Inspires the Tawdry King

Chapter 24 Tinsel Trappings of Nobility

Chapter 25 At Last—Forward!

Chapter 26 The Last Doubts Scattered

Chapter 27 How Joan Took Jargeau

PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS OF JOAN OF ARC

By The Sieur Louis De Conte

 (her page and secretary)

In Two Volumes

Volume 1.

Freely translated out of the ancient French into modern English from the original unpublished
manuscript in the National Archives of France

By Jean Francois Alden

Authorities examined in verification of the truthfulness of this narrative:

  J. E. J. QUICHERAT, Condamnation et Rehabilitation de Jeanne d'Arc.
  J. FABRE, Proces de Condamnation de Jeanne d'Arc.
  H. A. WALLON, Jeanne d'Arc.
  M. SEPET, Jeanne d'Arc.
  J. MICHELET, Jeanne d'Arc.
  BERRIAT DE SAINT-PRIX, La Famille de Jeanne d'Arc.
  La Comtesse A. DE CHABANNES, La Vierge Lorraine.
  Monseigneur RICARD, Jeanne d'Arc la Venerable.
  Lord RONALD GOWER, F.S.A., Joan of Arc. JOHN O'HAGAN, Joan of Arc.
  JANET TUCKEY, Joan of Arc the Maid.

TRANSLATOR'S PREFACE

To arrive at a just estimate of a renowned man's character one must judge it by the standards
of his time, not ours. Judged by the standards of one century, the noblest characters of an
earlier one lose much of their luster; judged by the standards of to-day, there is probably
no illustrious man of four or five centuries ago whose character could meet the test at all
points. But the character of Joan of Arc is unique. It can be measured by the standards of
all times without misgiving or apprehension as to the result. Judged by any of them, it is
still flawless, it is still ideally perfect; it still occupies the loftiest place possible
to human attainment, a loftier one than has been reached by any other mere mortal.

When we reflect that her century was the brutalest, the wickedest, the rottenest in history
since the darkest ages, we are lost in wonder at the miracle of such a product from such a
soil. The contrast between her and her century is the contrast between day and night. She was
truthful when lying was the common speech of men; she was honest when honesty was become a
lost virtue; she was a keeper of promises when the keeping of a promise was expected of no
one; she gave her great mind to great thoughts and great purposes when other great minds wasted
themselves upon pretty fancies or upon poor ambitions; she was modest, and fine, and delicate
when to be loud and coarse might be said to be universal; she was full of pity when a merciless
cruelty was the rule; she was steadfast when stability was unknown, and honorable in an age
which had forgotten what honor was; she was a rock of convictions in a time when men believed
in nothing and scoffed at all things; she was unfailingly true to an age that was false to
the core; she maintained her personal dignity unimpaired in an age of fawnings and servilities;
she was of a dauntless courage when hope and courage had perished in the hearts of her nation;
she was spotlessly pure in mind and body when society in the highest places was foul in both—she
was all these things in an age when crime was the common business of lords and princes, and
when the highest personages in Christendom were able to astonish even that infamous era and
make it stand aghast at the spectacle of their atrocious lives black with unimaginable treacheries,
butcheries, and beastialities.

She was perhaps the only entirely unselfish person whose name has a place in profane history.
No vestige or suggestion of self-seeking can be found in any word or deed of hers. When she
had rescued her King from his vagabondage, and set his crown upon his head, she was offered
rewards and honors, but she refused them all, and would take nothing. All she would take for
herself—if the King would grant it—was leave to go back to her village home, and tend her sheep
again, and feel her mother's arms about her, and be her housemaid and helper. The selfishness
of this unspoiled general of victorious armies, companion of princes, and idol of an applauding
and grateful nation, reached but that far and no farther.

The work wrought by Joan of Arc may fairly be regarded as ranking any recorded in history,
when one considers the conditions under which it was undertaken, the obstacles in the way,
and the means at her disposal. Caesar carried conquests far, but he did it with the trained
and confident veterans of Rome, and was a trained soldier himself; and Napoleon swept away
the disciplined armies of Europe, but he also was a trained soldier, and he began his work
with patriot battalions inflamed and inspired by the miracle-working new breath of Liberty
breathed upon them by the Revolution—eager young apprentices to the splendid trade of war,
not old and broken men-at-arms, despairing survivors of an age-long accumulation of monotonous
defeats; but Joan of Arc, a mere child in years, ignorant, unlettered, a poor village girl
unknown and without influence, found a great nation lying in chains, helpless and hopeless
under an alien domination, its treasury bankrupt, its soldiers disheartened and dispersed,
all spirit torpid, all courage dead in the hearts of the people through long years of foreign
and domestic outrage and oppression, their King cowed, resigned to its fate, and preparing
to fly the country; and she laid her hand upon this nation, this corpse, and it rose and followed
her. She led it from victory to victory, she turned back the tide of the Hundred Years' War,
she fatally crippled the English power, and died with the earned title of DELIVERER OF FRANCE,
which she bears to this day.

And for all reward, the French King, whom she had crowned, stood supine and indifferent, while
French priests took the noble child, the most innocent, the most lovely, the most adorable
the ages have produced, and burned her alive at the stake.

A PECULIARITY OF JOAN OF ARC'S HISTORY

The details of the life of Joan of Arc form a biography which is unique among the world's biographies
in one respect: It is the only story of a human life which comes to us under oath, the only
one which comes to us from the witness-stand. The official records of the Great Trial of 1431,
and of the Process of Rehabilitation of a quarter of a century later, are still preserved in
the National Archives of France, and they furnish with remarkable fullness the facts of her
life. The history of no other life of that remote time is known with either the certainty or
the comprehensiveness that attaches to hers.

The Sieur Louis de Conte is faithful to her official history in his Personal Recollections,
and thus far his trustworthiness is unimpeachable; but his mass of added particulars must depend
for credit upon his word alone.

THE TRANSLATOR.

THE SIEUR LOUIS DE CONTE

To his Great-Great-Grand Nephews and Nieces

This is the year 1492. I am eighty-two years of age. The things I am going to tell you are
things which I saw myself as a child and as a youth.

In all the tales and songs and histories of Joan of Arc, which you and the rest of the world
read and sing and study in the books wrought in the late invented art of printing, mention
is made of me, the Sieur Louis de Conte—I was her page and secretary, I was with her from the
beginning until the end.

I was reared in the same village with her. I played with her every day, when we were little
children together, just as you play with your mates. Now that we perceive how great she was,
now that her name fills the whole world, it seems strange that what I am saying is true; for
it is as if a perishable paltry candle should speak of the eternal sun riding in the heavens
and say, "He was gossip and housemate to me when we were candles together." And yet it is true,
just as I say. I was her playmate, and I fought at her side in the wars; to this day I carry
in my mind, fine and clear, the picture of that dear little figure, with breast bent to the
flying horse's neck, charging at the head of the armies of France, her hair streaming back,
her silver mail plowing steadily deeper and deeper into the thick of the battle, sometimes
nearly drowned from sight by tossing heads of horses, uplifted sword-arms, wind-blow plumes,
and intercepting shields. I was with her to the end; and when that black day came whose accusing
shadow will lie always upon the memory of the mitered French slaves of England who were her
assassins, and upon France who stood idle and essayed no rescue, my hand was the last she touched
in life.

