Mr. STUART OGILVIE'S Drama may be a clever adaptation of a story difficult to adapt; but that
his play is powerfully dramatic, even when it arrives at what, as I conceive, was intended
to be its strongest dramatic situation in the Second Scene of the Third Act, no one but an
Umbra (to be "classical"), a sycophant, a "creature," or a contentious noodle, could possibly
assert. Yet, as a series of tableaux vivants, illustrating scenes in the public and private
life of Issachar the Jew,--and that Jew Mr. BEERBOHM TREE, so artistically made up as to be
absolutely unrecognisable by those who know him best,--the action is decidedly interesting
up to the end of the Third Act. After that, all is tumult. The gay and seductive Orestes, Prefect
of Alexandria (carefully played by Mr. LEWIS WALLER) is slain, anyhow, all higgledy-piggledy,
by the Jew, Issachar, whose seductive daughter Ruth (sweetly and gently represented by Miss
OLGA BRANDON) this gay LOTHARIO of a Prefect has contrived, not, apparently, with any great
difficulty, to lead astray, or, to put it "classically," to seduce from the narrow path of
such virtue as is common alike to Pagan, Jew, and Christian. As for handsome Hypatia herself,
magnificent though Miss JULIA NEILSON be as a classic model for a painter, she is nowhere,
dramatically, in the piece, when contrasted with the unhappy Jewish Family of two. It is the
story of Issachar, his daughter and Orestes, that absorbs the interest; and, as to what becomes
of Cyril and his Merry Monks, of Philammon (which, when pronounced, sounds like a modern Cockney-rendering
of PHILIP HAMMOND, with the aspirate omitted and the final "d" dropped), of old Theon (who
never appears but he is immediately sent away again, and therefore might be termed "The-on-and-off-'un"),
and, finally, of even that charming specimen of a Girton Girl-Lecturer on Philosophy Hypatia
herself, well--to adopt HOOD'S couplet about the Poor in London,--

    "Where they goes, or how they fares, Nobody knows and nobody
    cares."

The entire interest is centred in Issachar, and had the author devised some strong dramatic
climax (such as occurs in that play of SARDOU'S where SARAH B. stabs PAUL BERTON) with which
to finish the piece, when the Prefect should have been killed either by Issachar or by Miriam
(SARDOU would have made Issachar's daughter the heroine--the SARA BERNHARDT of the piece) then,
in the penultimate Act, anything tragic, or otherwise, might picturesquely and appropriately
have happened to the classic Girton girl, Hypatia, and Master Phil 'Ammon, the good young Monk
so inclined to go wrong, to the great contentment of the audience.

Mr. TREE makes a thoroughly oriental type of Issachar, and it is within an ace of being a grand
impersonation. What that ace exactly is, it is somewhat difficult to say, but what is wanting
is wanting in his great scene with his daughter. If the dramatist had given him such another
final chance as I have already suggested, the character might have been dramatically perfected
in Mr. TREE'S hands. As it is, both by author and actor it is left "to be finished in our next."

Mr. TERRY is good as the amatory Monk, and Miss JULIA NEILSON is statuesquely graceful as Hypatia.
If I say "she is making strides in her profession," I must be taken to allude not to her vast
improvement histrionically, but to the long steps which she takes across the stage.

The costumes are admirable, especially that of Issachar, on whose attire the Messrs. NATHAN
as Israel-lights-and-leaders must be considered high authorities.

Mr. ALMA TADEMA, R.A., is responsible for the designs of the scenery by Messrs. JOHNSTONE,
HANN, HALL, and HARKER. [Great chance for 'ARRY 'ere! "Scenery by 'ANN--a lady artist of course--then
'ALL and then 'ARKER, from designs by HALMA TADEMA." "I s'pose HALMA'S a artistic shemale,"
'ARRY would say: "cos I know as there's another HALMA on the stage, leastways on the Music
'All stage, and she's HALMA STANLEY."] Whatever the designing ALMA may have done, I cannot
say much for the reproduction of his favourite game of marbles. The "marble halls" lack polish;
but the Market Place, The Court of Hypatia's House, Issachar's snuggery, and a Street in Alexandria,
are highly effective pictures. But I should like to know if in Mr. ALMA TADEMA'S design for
the Monk's dress, Mr. FRED TERRY found a small black and silver crucifix of very modern workmanship
suspended from the girdle, as this religious emblem did not come into use until a much later
date. By the way, ecclesiastical ornaments must have been cheap in those days to warrant Bishop
Cyril (strongly rendered by Mr. FERNANDEZ) flaunting about the streets of Alexandria in such
rainbow robes as, in a later age, would have led people to imagine that he had just broken
out of the stained glass window of a Gothic Cathedral. Two thousand years hence the New Zealand
dramatist may represent the Archbishop of CANTERBURY as walking about London in his lawn sleeves
with coronation cope and mitre, or Cardinal HERBERT VAUGHAN as wearing his scarlet hat and
robes, and riding in a Hansom cab, having been unable to pick up his own Cardinal's train.
All this were hypercriticism, but that the name of ALMA TADEMA, R.A., is a public guarantee
for academical accuracy.

Anyhow, Hypatia, if not "a famous victory"--is at least a fine spectacle, with some fine acting
in it, but this is mainly confined to Mr. BEERBOHM TREE. As the very heavy father, Mr. KEMBLE
has not been allowed half a chance. Why should he not alternate characters with Mr. FERNANDEZ,
and for three nights a week appear as Cyril the Bishop, while FERNANDEZ would be Hypatia's
parent who has to grovel on the steps while his highly educated child is lecturing, who has
to comfort her in her terror, and be turned out neck and crop whenever nobody on the scene
wants him, which by the way, happens rather frequently.

The music to a Drama is generally a minor affair, but, in this instance, it is both major and
minor, and has been specially written for the piece by Dr. HUBERT PARRY. As this play is not
an "adaptation from the French," the music of this Composer is the only article de Parry about
the piece, and, being strikingly appropriate, it proves an attraction of itself. It is conducted
by the Wagnerian ARMBRUSTER, who, with his Merry Men, is hidden away under the stage, much
as was the Ghost of Hamlet's father whom Hamlet irreverently styled "Old Truepenny." Altogether
a notable piece. Prosit!

THE B IN A BOX.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHEAP LAW IN THE CITY.

Probable Development of the new "London Chamber of Arbitration," for the economical Settlement
of Disputes without recourse to Litigation

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

