When he had dutifully seen Miss Lorenzi off at the ship, leaving her with as many flowers,
novels, and sweets as even she could wish, Stephen expected to feel a sense of relief. But
somehow, in a subtle way, he was more feverishly wretched than when Margot was near, and while
planning to hurry on the marriage. He had been buoyed up with a rather youthful sense of defiance
of the world, a hot desire to "get everything over." The flatness of the reaction which he
felt on finding himself free, at least of Margot's society, was a surprise; and yet Stephen
vaguely understood its real meaning. To be free, yet not free, was an aggravation. And besides,
he did not know what to do or where to go, now that old friends and old haunts had lost much
of their attraction.

Since the announcement of his engagement to Miss Lorenzi, and especially since the famous interview,
copied in all the papers, he disliked meeting people he knew well, lest they should offer good
advice, or let him see that they were dying to do so.

If it had been weak to say, "Be my wife, if you think I can make you happy," one day when Margot
Lorenzi had tearfully confessed her love for him, it would be doubly weak--worse than weak,
Stephen thought--to throw her over now. It would look to the world as if he were a coward,
and it would look to himself the same--which would be more painful in the end. So he could
listen to no advice, and he wished to hear none. Fortunately he was not in love with any other
woman. But then, if he had loved somebody else, he would not have made the foolish mistake
of saying those unlucky, irrevocable words to Margot.

Stephen would have liked to get away from England for a while, but he hardly knew where to
look for a haven. Since making a dash through France and Italy just after leaving Oxford, he
had been too busy amusing himself in his own country to find time for any other, with the exception
of an occasional run over to Paris. Now, if he stopped in England it would be difficult to
evade officious friends, and soon everybody would be gossiping about his quarrel with Northmorland.
The Duchess was not reticent.

Stephen had not yet made up his mind what to do, or whether to do anything at all in his brief
interval of freedom, when a letter came, to the flat near Albert Gate, where he had shut himself
up after the sailing of Margot. The letter was post-marked Algiers, and it was a long time
since he had seen the writing on the envelope--but not so long that he had forgotten it.

"Nevill Caird!" he said to himself as he broke the neat seal which was characteristic of the
writer. And he wondered, as he slowly, almost reluctantly, unfolded the letter, whether Nevill
Caird had been reminded of him by reading the interview with Margot. Once, he and Caird had
been very good friends, almost inseparable during one year at Oxford. Stephen had been twenty
then, and Nevill Caird about twenty-three. That would make him thirty-two now--and Stephen
could hardly imagine what "Wings" would have developed into at thirty-two. They had not met
since Stephen's last year at Oxford, for Caird had gone to live abroad, and if he came back
to England sometimes, he had never made any sign of wishing to pick up the old friendship where
it had dropped. But here was this letter.

Stephen knew that Caird had inherited a good deal of money, and a house in Paris, from an uncle
or some other near relative; and a common friend had told him that there was also an Arab palace,
very ancient and very beautiful, in or near Algiers. Several years had passed since Nevill
Caird's name had been mentioned in his hearing, and lately it had not even echoed in his mind;
but now, the handwriting and the neat seal on this envelope brought vividly before him the
image of his friend: small, slight, boyish in face and figure, with a bright, yet dreamy smile,
and blue-grey eyes which had the look of seeing beautiful things that nobody else could see.

     "DEAR LEGS,"

began the letter ("Legs" being the name which Stephen's skill as a runner, as well as the length
of his limbs, had given him in undergraduate days).

     "Dear Legs,

     "I've often thought about you in the last nine years, and hope
     you've occasionally thought of me, though somehow or other we
     haven't written. I don't know whether you've travelled much, or
     whether England has absorbed all your interests. Anyhow, can't you
     come out here and make me a visit--the longer it is, the more I
     shall be pleased. This country is interesting if you don't know it,
     and fascinating if you do. My place is rather nice, and I should
     like you to see it. Still better, I should like to see you. Do come
     if you can, and come soon. I should enjoy showing you my garden at
     its best. It's one of the things I care for most, but there are
     other things. Do let me introduce you to them all. You can be as
     quiet as you wish, if you wish. I'm a quiet sort myself, as you may
     remember, and North Africa suits me better than London or Paris. I
     haven't changed for the worse I hope, and I'm sure you haven't, in
     any way.

     "You can hardly realize how much pleasure it will give me if you'll
     say 'yes' to my proposal.

                                          "Yours as ever

                                          "NEVILL CAIRD, alias 'Wings,'"

Not a word of "the case," though, of course, he must know all about it--even in Algiers. Stephen's
gratitude went out to his old friend, and his heart felt warmer because of the letter and the
invitation. Many people, even with the best intentions, would have contrived to say the wrong
thing in these awkward circumstances. There would have been some veiled allusion to the engagement;
either silly, well-meant congratulations and good wishes, or else a stupid hint of advice to
get out of a bad business while there was time. But Caird wrote as he might have written if
there had been no case, and no entanglement; and acting on his first impulse, Stephen telegraphed
an acceptance, saying that he would start for Algiers in two or three days. Afterwards, when
he had given himself time to think, he did not regret his decision. Indeed, he was glad of
it, and glad that he had made it so soon.

A few weeks ago, a sudden break in his plans would have caused him a great deal of trouble.
There would have been dozens of luncheons and dinners to escape from, and twice as many letters
to write. But nowadays he had few invitations and scarcely any letters to write, except those
of business, and an occasional line to Margot. People were willing to be neglected by him,
willing to let him alone, for now that he had quarrelled with Northmorland and the Duchess,
and had promised to marry an impossible woman, he must be gently but firmly taught to expect
little of Society in future.

Stephen broke the news to his man that he was going away, alone, and though the accomplished
Molton had regrets, they were not as poignant as they would have been some weeks earlier. Most
valets, if not all, are human, and have a weakness for a master whose social popularity is
as unbounded as his generosity.

Molton's services did not cease until after he had packed Stephen's luggage, and seen him off
at Victoria. He flattered himself, as he left the station with three months' wages in his pocket,
that he would be missed; but Stephen was surprised at the sense of relief which came as Molton
turned a respectable back, and the boat-train began to slide out of the station. It was good
to be alone, to have loosed his moorings, and to be drifting away where no eyes, once kind,
would turn from him, or turn on him with pity. Out there in Algiers, a town of which he had
the vaguest conception, there would be people who read the papers, of course, and people who
loved to gossip; but Stephen felt a pleasant confidence that Nevill Caird would know how to
protect him from such people. He would not have to meet many strangers. Nevill would arrange
all that, and give him plenty to think about during his weeks of freedom.

Algiers seemed a remote place to Stephen, who had loved life at home too passionately to care
for foreign travel. Besides, there was always a great deal to do in England at every season
of the year, and it had been difficult to find a time convenient for getting away. Town engagements
began early in the spring, and lasted till after Cowes, when he was keen for Scotland. Being
a gregarious as well as an idle young man, he was pleased with his own popularity, and the
number of his invitations for country-house visits. He could never accept more than half, but
even so, he hardly saw London until January; and then, if he went abroad at all, there was
only time for a few days in Paris, and a fortnight on the Riviera, perhaps, before he found
that he must get back. Just after leaving Oxford, before his father's death, he had been to
Rome, to Berlin, and Vienna, and returned better satisfied than ever with his own capital;
but of course it was different now that the capital was dissatisfied with him.

He had chosen the night train and it was not crowded. All the way to Dover he had the compartment
to himself, and there was no rush for the boat. It was a night of stars and balmy airs; but
after the start the wind freshened, and Stephen walked briskly up and down the deck, shivering
slightly at first, till his blood warmed. By and by it grew so cold that the deck emptied,
save for half a dozen men with pipes that glowed between turned-up coat collars, and one girl
in a blue serge dress, with no other cloak than the jacket that matched her frock. Stephen
hardly noticed her at first, but as men buttoned their coats or went below, and she remained,
his attention was attracted to the slim figure leaning on the rail. Her face was turned away,
looking over the sea where the whirling stars dipped into dark waves that sprang to engulf
them. Her elbows rested on the railing, and her chin lay in the cup of her two hands; but her
hair, under a blue sailor-hat held down with a veil, hung low in a great looped-up plait, tied
with a wide black ribbon, so that Stephen, without wasting much thought upon her, guessed that
she must be very young. It was red hair, gleaming where the light touched it, and the wind
thrashed curly tendrils out from the thick clump of the braid, tracing bright threads in intricate,
lacy lines over her shoulders, like the network of sunlight that plays on the surface of water.

Stephen thought of that simile after he had passed the girl once or twice, and thinking of
it made him think of the girl herself. He was sure she must be cold in her serge jacket, and
wondered why she didn't go below to the ladies' cabin. Also he wondered, even more vaguely,
why her people didn't take better care of the child: there must be some one belonging to her
on board.

At last she turned, not to look at him, but to pace back and forth as others were pacing. She
was in front of Stephen, and he saw only her back, which seemed more girlish than ever as she
walked with a light, springing step, that might have kept time to some dainty dance-music which
only she could hear. Her short dress, of hardly more than ankle length, flowed past her slender
shape as the black, white-frothing waves flowed past the slim prow of the boat; and there was
something individual, something distinguished in her gait and the bearing of her head on the
young throat. Stephen noticed this rather interesting peculiarity, remarking it more definitely
because of the almost mean simplicity of the blue serge dress. It was of provincial cut, and
looked as if the wearer might have bought it ready made in some country town. Her hat, too,
was of the sort that is turned out by the thousand and sold at a few shillings for young persons
between the ages of twelve and twenty.

By and by, when she had walked as far forward as possible, the deck rising under her feet or
plunging down, while thin spray-wreaths sailed by on the wind, the girl wheeled and had the
breeze at her back. It was then Stephen caught his first glimpse of her face, in a full white
blaze of electric light: and he had the picture to himself, for by this time nearly every one
else had gone.

He had not expected anything wonderful, but it seemed to him in a flash of surprise that this
was an amazing beauty. He had never seen such hair, or such a complexion. The large eyes gave
him no more than a passing glance, but they were so vivid, so full of blue light as they met
his, that he had a startled impression of being graciously accosted. It seemed as if the girl
had some message to give him, for which he must stop and ask.

As soon as they had passed each other, however, that curious, exciting impression was gone,
like the vanishing glint on a gull's wing as it dips from sun into shadow. Of course she had
not spoken; of course she had no word to give him. He had seemed to hear her speak, because
she was a very vital sort of creature, no doubt, and therefore physically, though unconsciously,
magnetic.

At their next crossing under the light she did not look at him at all, and he realized that
she was not so extraordinarily beautiful as he had at first thought. The glory of her was more
an effect of colouring than anything else. The creamy complexion of a very young girl, whipped
to rose and white by the sea wind; brilliant turquoise blue eyes under a glitter of wavy red
hair; these were the only marvels, for the small, straight nose was exactly like most pretty
girls' noses, and the mouth, though expressive and sweet, with a short upper lip, was not remarkable,
unless for its firmness.

The next time they passed, Stephen granted the girl a certain charm of expression which heightened
the effect of beauty. She looked singularly innocent and interested in life, which to Stephen's
mood seemed pathetic. He was convinced that he had seen through life, and consequently ceased
forever to be interested in it. But he admired beauty wherever he saw it, whether in the grace
of a breaking wave, or the sheen on a girl's bright hair, and it amused him faintly to speculate
about the young creature with the brilliant eyes and blowing red locks. He decided that she
was a schoolgirl of sixteen, being taken over to Paris, probably to finish her education there.
Her mother or guardian was no doubt prostrate with sea-sickness, careless for the moment whether
the child paraded the deck insufficiently clad, or whether she fell unchaperoned into the sea.
Judging by her clothes, her family was poor, and she was perhaps intended for a governess:
that was why they were sending her to France. She was to be given "every advantage," in order
to command "desirable situations" by and by. Stephen felt dimly sorry for the little thing,
who looked so radiantly happy now. She was much too pretty to be a governess, or to be obliged
to earn her own living in any way. Women were brutes to each other sometimes. He had been finding
this out lately. Few would care to bring a flowerlike creature of that type into their houses.
The girl had trouble before her. He was sure she was going to be a governess.

After she had walked for half an hour she looked round for a sheltered corner and sat down.
But the place she had chosen was only comparatively sheltered, and presently Stephen fancied
that he saw her shivering with cold. He could not bear this, knowing that he had a rug which
Molton had forced upon him to use on board ship between Marseilles and Algiers. It was in a
rolled-up thing which Molton called a "hold-all," along with some sticks and an umbrella, Stephen
believed; and the rolled-up thing was on deck, with other hand-luggage.

"Will you let me lend you a rug?" he asked, in the tone of a benevolent uncle addressing a
child. "I have one close by, and it's rather cold when you don't walk."

"Thank you very much," said the girl. "I should like it, if it won't be too much trouble to you."

She spoke simply, and had a pretty voice, but it was an American voice. Stephen was surprised,
because to find that she was an American upset his theories. He had never heard of American
girls coming over to Paris with the object of training to be governesses.

He went away and found the rug, returning with it in two or three minutes. The girl thanked
him again, getting up and wrapping the dark soft thing round her shoulders and body, as if
it had been a big shawl. Then she sat down once more, with a comfortable little sigh. "That
does feel good!" she exclaimed. "I was cold."

"I think you would have been wiser to stop in the ladies' cabin," said Stephen, still with
the somewhat patronizing air of the older person.

"I like lots of air," explained the girl. "And it doesn't do me any harm to be cold."

"How about getting a chill?" inquired Stephen.

"Oh, I never have such things. They don't exist. At least they don't unless one encourages
them," she replied.

He smiled, rather interested, and pleased to linger, since she evidently understood that he
was using no arts to scrape an acquaintance. "That sounds like Christian Science," he ventured.

"I don't know that it's any kind of science," said she. "Nobody ever talked to me about it.
Only if you're not afraid of things, they can't hurt you, can they?"

"Perhaps not. I suppose you mean you needn't let yourself feel them. There's something in the
idea: be callous as an alligator and nothing can hit you."

"I don't mean that at all. I'd hate to be callous," she objected. "We couldn't enjoy things
if we were callous."

Stephen, on the point of saying something bitter, stopped in time, knowing that his words would
have been not only stupid but obvious, which was worse. "It is good to be young," he remarked
instead.

"Yes, but I'm glad to be grown up at last," said the girl; and Stephen would not let himself laugh.

"I know how you feel," he answered. "I used to feel like that too."

"Don't you now?"

"Not always. I've had plenty of time to get tired of being grown up."

"Maybe you've been a soldier, and have seen sad things," she suggested. "I was thinking when
I first saw you, that you looked like a soldier."

"I wish I had been. Unfortunately I was too disgustingly young, when our only war of my day
was on. I mean, the sort of war one could volunteer for."

"In South Africa?"

"Yes. You were a baby in that remote time."

"Oh no, I wasn't. I'm eighteen now, going on nineteen. I was in Paris then, with my stepmother
and my sister. We used to hear talk about the war, though we knew hardly any English people."

"So Paris won't be a new experience to you?" said Stephen, disappointed that he had been mistaken
in all his surmises.

"I went back to America before I was nine, and I've been there ever since, till a few weeks
ago. Oh see, there are the lights of France! I can't help being excited."

"Yes, we'll be in very soon--in about ten minutes."

"I am glad! I'd better go below and make my hair tidy. Thank you ever so much for helping me
to be comfortable."

