The Spaniards found that the swan had been employed emblematically in Mexico, supporting the
theory of Hornius that that part of America was colonised by the Phoenicians and Carthaginians,
inasmuch as, according to Bryant, "where the Canaanites or their descendants may have settled,
there will a story be found in reference to swans."

The mythological history of the Cygnus will be found in the latter author's Analysis, and in
Hill's Urania, or a Complete View of the Heavens, containing the Ancient and Modern Astronomy,
in Form of a Dictionary, which will perhaps meet the wants of G.I.C. (Vol. iii. p. 24.).

It will not, perhaps, be irrelevant to this subject to advert to the story of Albertus Aquensis
(in Gesta Dei per Francos, p. 196.), regarding a Goose and a Goat, which in the second crusade
were considered as "divino spiritu afflati," and made "duces viæ in Jerusalem." What are the
earliest notices of the usage of swearing by swans and pheasants? Was the pheasant ever considered
a royal bird?

R.V.

The Frozen Horn (Vol. iii., p. 25.).--I am quite angry with J.M.G. for supposing my old friend
Sir John Maundevile guilty of such a flam as that which he quotes from memory as the worthy
knight's own statement. There is no such story in the Voiage and Travaile: nay more, there
is not in the whole of that "ryght merveillous" book, a single passage given on the authority
of Sir John as eyewitness that is not perfectly credible. When he quotes Pliny for monsters,
the Chronicles for legends, and the romances of his time for narratives of an extraordinary
character, he does so in evident good faith as a compiler. His most improbable statements,
too, are always qualified with some such phrase as "men seyn, but I have not sene it." In a
word, I believe Sir John Maundevile to have been as truthful in intention as any writer of
his age. I am afraid that J.M.G.'s knowledge of our old "voiager" is limited to some jest-book
of more modern times, which attributes to him sayings and doings of which he is perfectly guiltless.

MARK ANTONY LOWER.

Lewes.

Cockade and True Blue (Vol. iii., pp. 7. 27.) both owe their origin to the wars of the Scottish
Covenanters; and the cockade appears to have been first adopted as a distinguishing emblem
by the English army at the battle of Sherra-muir, where the Scotch wore the blue ribbon as
a scarf, or on their bonnets (which was their favourite colour). The English army then, to
distinguish themselves, assumed a black rosette on their hats; which, from its position, the
Scotch nick-named a "cock'ade" (with which our use of the word "cockscomb" is connected) and
is still retained.

An old Scotch song describing, "the Battle of Sherra-muir"

The song, which is rather a long one, carries you with the army to the Forth, Dumblane, Stirling,
Perth, and Dundee. Oft referring to the "Poor red-coat," and to the "Angus lads."

BLOWER.

The Vavasours of Hazlewood (Vol. ii., p. 326.).--1. It is a well-known fact that the stone
for York minster was given by the Vavasour family. To commemorate this, there is, under the
west window in that cathedral, a statue of the owner of Hazelwood at that period, holding a
piece of stone in his hand. Hence may have arisen the tradition that the chief of the family
might ride into York minster on horseback.

{72} 2. In feudal times Hazlewood was a fortified castle, having its regular retainers, &c.

3. Hazlewood Chapel was the only Roman Catholic parish church in England which did not become
a Protestant church at the Reformation.

CHAS. D. MARKHAM.

Jan. 10. 1851.

"Breeches" Bible (Vol. iii., p. 17.).--In quoting from specimens of early printing, correctness
of orthography, even in trivial matters, is desirable, and therefore I venture, in allusion
to the interesting communication from [Curly-pi] on the subject of the Geneva or "Breeches"
Bible, to state that the edition of 1576, in my possession, is "Imprinted by Christopher Barkar"
(not Barker), "dwelling in Paternoster Rowe, at the signe of the Tygres Head."

The text quoted varies also in two or three words from my copy, and it is probably from the
Geneva edition. The English edition of 1576 runs thus, (Gen. iii. 7.): "Then the eyes of them
both were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed figge tree leaves together,
and made them selves breeches." I am, sir, yours truly,

S.H.H.

Histoire des Sévarambes (Vol. iii., p. 4.).--On the subject of the authorship of this work
I will transcribe a note which I subjoined to a short account of Isaac Vossius (Worthington's
Diary, p. 125):--

    "Whether the History of the Sevarites, of Sevarambi by Captains Thomas
    Liden, published in two parts (London, 1675-9, 12mo.), which is one of
    the ablest of the fictions written after the model of More's Utopia,
    and which has been ascribed to Isaac Vossius by J.A. Fabricius, be his,
    is a point yet unsettled. On a careful consideration of the internal
    evidence, and a comparison with his avowed publications, so far as such
    a comparison can be made between works so dissimilar in character, I
    incline to the conclusion that this tract is justly ascribed to Isaac
    Vossius."

On a reconsideration of the subject, I see no reason to alter this opinion. Morhof, who always
attributed it to Isaac Vossius (see Polyhistor, vol. i. p. 74., edit. 1747), was thoroughly
versed in the literary history, including the English, of the period, and was not likely to
have been mistaken. Vossius lived in England from 1670 to 1688, when he died. I have seen several
English letters of his, though his general correspondence was in Latin or French, and he seems
quite able to have written it, as far as the language is concerned. Vairasse appears to have
translated it into French but to have had no other part in it. I may observe, that the publication
in English, London, 1738, is a retranslation from the French, not a reprint of the original
work of 1675-9.

JAMES CROSSLEY.

Verses attributed to Charles Yorke (Vol. ii., p. 7.; and Vol. iii., p. 43.).--These lines,
"Stript to the naked soul," have been frequently printed, indeed so lately as in Lord Campbell's
Lives of the Chancellors, at the end of the Life of Charles Yorke, as his, but without any
observation. What is most singular is, that the excellent editor of Bishop Warburton's Literary
Remains has overlooked the fact that they are driven in that prelate's correspondence with
Bishop Hurd as Pope's. (See Letters, p. 362., edit. 1809, 8vo.) Warburton observes, "The little
poem is certainly his." He remarks in a letter to Yorke--

    "You have obliged me much (as is your wont) by a fine little poem of my
    excellent and endeared friend, Mr. Pope, and I propose to put in into
    use."--Letters from Warburton to C. Yorke. 1812, 4to. p. 64.

Warburton then gave them to Ruffhead, who inserted them in his Life of Pope, from which they
were transferred in Bowles's editions of Pope's Works (vol. ii. p. 406), and in the supplementary
volume to Pope's Works (1807, 4to.). The extraordinary circumstance is, that they had appeared
as far back as 1753 in the miscellaneous works of Aaron Hill, published in 1753, in 4 vols.
8vo., and are included in that collection as his own. Roscoe observes (Life of Pope, in vol.
i. of his edition of Pope's Works, p. 361., edit. 1824), without, however appearing to have
been fully acquainted with the facts of the case:

    "These verses are not the production of Pope, as might indeed readily
    have been perceived, but of Aaron Hill."

I must confess I cannot agree with the remark. If the point be to be decided by internal evidence,
the verses are surely Pope's. The collection of A. Hill's miscellaneous works was a posthumous
one for the benefit of the family, and includes several other poems, which were certainly not
written by him. Little stress, therefore, can be laid upon the fact of the lines being included
in this collection, which seems to have comprised whatever was found amongst Hill's papers,
without any nice examination or scrutiny. My conclusion is, that the verses are Pope's; and
it is at all events certain that they are not Charles Yorke's.

JAMES CROSSLEY.

Archbishop Bolton of Cashel (Vol. iii., p. 39.).--He was born at Burrishool, in the county
of Mayo, about 1678; graduated at Trinity College, Dublin; was ordained deacon in 1702; priest
in 1703; became a prebendary of St. Patrick's, Dublin, in 1707; chancellor of that cathedral
in 1714; vicar-general of the diocese of Dublin in 1720; vicar of Finglas, near Dublin, in
the same year; præcentor of Christ Church, Dublin, in 1722; bishop of Clonfert in the same
year; bishop of Elphin in 1724; archbishop of Cashel in 1729; to which diocese he bequeathed
his valuable library.

He died in January, 1744, and was buried at St. Werburgh's Church, in Dublin.

{73} See my Fasti Ecclesiæ Hibernicæ, vols. i., ii., and iv., for a few more particulars, if
required.

H. COTTON.

Thurles, Ireland, Jan. 20. 1851.

Erasmus and Farel (Vol. iii., p. 38.).--In my Life of Calvin, p. 46., I mention that Erasmus
named Farel, Phallicus; and infer that he probably did so from some manifestation of amorous
propensities on the part of that reformer.

A querist in your last number (J.C.R.) points out that D'Aubigné, or his translator, spells
the word Fallicus, and refers it to the deceitful character of Farel.

Phallicus is a Greek word, and has a meaning--[Greek: phallikos], of or belonging to the [Greek:
phallos]. Fallicus, to the best of my knowledge, is neither Greek nor Latin, and has no meaning.
Erasmus, in his epistles, constantly spells the word Phallicus. (See Epp. 698. 707. &c. Leyden,
ed. 1706.) And that I was justified in drawing from it an inference which is in analogy with
its meaning, the following passages, in the last of the epistles just cited, will establish:--

    "Hunc stomachum in me concepit (Phallicus) quod in spongia dubitem de
    Lutheri spiritu: præterea quod scripserim, quosdam sordidos, et impuræ
    vitæ se jactitare nomine Evangelii."

And a little farther on--

    "At tamen quicquid hactenus in me blateravit Phallicus, non minus vane
    quam virulente, facite condonabitur hominis morbo, modo posthac sumat
    mores Evangelii præcone dignos."

THOS. H. DYER.

London, Jan. 20. 1851.

Early Culture of the Imagination, (Vol. iii., p. 38.).--The interesting article to which MR.
GATTY refers will be found in the Quarterly Review, No. XLI. Sir Walter Scott, in a letter
addressed to Edgar Taylor, Esq.

F.R.R.

Milnrow Parsonage.

Early Culture of the Imagination (Vol. iii., p. 38.).--MR. ALFRED GATTY will find what he inquires
for in the 74th volume of the Quarterly Review, "Children's Books." With the prefatory remarks
of that article may be compared No. 151. of the Rambler, "The Climacterics of the Mind."

T.J.

William Chilcot (Vol. iii., p. 38.).--MR. HOOPER is referred to the History of Tiverton, by
Lieut. Col. Harding, ed. Boyce, Tiverton; Whittaker, London, 1847, vol. ii., B. III., p. 167.,
for an account of the family of Chilcot alias Comyn; to which most likely the author belonged,
and was probably a native of Tiverton. As MR. HOOPER many not have ready access to the book,
I send the substance of an extract. Robert Chilcott alias Comyn, born at Tiverton, com. Devon,
merchant, and who died, it is supposed, at Isleworth, com. Middlesex, about A.D. 1609, "married
Ann, d. of Walter Cade of London, Haberdasher, by whom he had one son, William, who married
Catherine, d. of Thomas Billingsly of London, Merchant, and had issue." Certain lands also
in Tiverton, A.D. 1680-90, are described as "now or late of William Comyns alias Chilcott."--Ibid.
p. 61.

If the first edition of the work were in 1698, most likely the author was a grandson of the
above-named William Chilcot and Catherine his wife, which the Tiverton registers might show.
If the search prove unsuccessful there, try that of Watford, Herts, where a branch of the same
family was settled, and to which there are monuments in Watford churchyard.

E.A.D.

By and Bye (Vol. ii., p. 424.).--Surely this means "by the way." Good by may mean "Bon voyage."

S.S.

Mocker (Vol. ii., p. 519.).--In some of the provincial dialects of England, and in the Scotch
of the lowlands of Scotland, there are a good many Dutch words. Moker, in Dutch, means a large
hammer. This is probably the word used by the old cottager of Pembridge, and spelt Mocker by W.M.

G.F.G.

Edinburgh.

Was Colonel Hewson a Cobbler? (Vol. iii., p. 11.).--Hume's History relates that "Colonel Hewson
suppressed the tumult of London apprentices, November, 1659:" and that "he was a man who rose
from the profession of a cobbler to a high rank in the army."

Colonel John Hewson was member for Guildford from September 17, 1656, to January 27, 1658-59.
(Bray and Manning.)

GILBERT.

{74}

Mole (Vol. ii., p. 225.).--This story is of course much older than the form which it now appears.
Sir Bevil Grenville is the great hero of the N.W. coast of Cornwall most of the floating legend
has been gathered about him.

Legends referring to the origin of different animals are common. Mrs. Jamieson (Canada) has
a very beautiful Chippewa story of the first robin.

It is believed in Devonshire that moles begin to work with the flow, and leave off with the
ebb of the tide. The same thing is asserted of the beaver.

Pillgarlick (Vol. ii., p. 393.; Vol. iii., p. 42.).--The word is given by Todd, in his edition
of Johnson, under the forms Pilgarlick and Pilled-garlick. The same orthography is adopted
by other lexicographers. The spelling, concerning which your querist desires information, is,
however, the least important point. I trust that the question will elicit information of a
valuable kind as to the origin of the term, by which I have I myself been sorely puzzled, and
which, I think, has not been satisfactorily cleared up by any of those who have attempted it.
Following the authority of Skinner, our philologists are satisfied with assuring us, that pilled
means bald (French, pelé) and about this there can be no dispute. Thus Chaucer (Reve's Tale)
says:--

  Round was his face, and camuse was his nose,
  And pilled as an ape was his skull."

Shakspeare also has:--

  "Pieled priest! doost thou command me to be shut out?"

for "shaven priest." But pilled, in other cases as might be shown by quotations, which for
the sake of brevity I omit, means pillaged, robbed, and also peeled, of which last sense the
quotations above given seem only to be a figurative application. The difficulties which arise
from these explanations are, first, if bald be the true meaning, why must we, with Todd, limit
it to baldness, resulting from disease, or more especially (as Grose will have it) from a disgraceful
disease?

Secondly, if peeled be taken as the equivalent to pilled, why is peeled garlick a more perfect
type of misery than any other peeled root or fruit?

Thirdly, if pillage is an essential ingredient in the true meaning of the term "pilled garlick,"
what has the stolen garlick to do with wretchedness? And,

Lastly, how will any one, or all of these explanations together, tally with the following passage
from Skelton:--

  "Wyll, Wyll, Wyll, Wyll, Wyll
  He ruleth always styll.
  Good reason and good skyll,
  They may garlyck pyll,
  Cary sackes to the myll,
  Or pescoddes they may shyll,
  Or elles go rost a stone?"
    Why come ye not to Courte? 103-109.

Without further elucidation of this pilling, the existing definitions are pills which defy
deglutition of

F.S.Q.

A Recent Novel (Vol. i., pp. 231, 285.).--May I be permitted to correct an error in a communication
from one of your correspondents? ADOLPHUS (p. 231.) puts a Query respecting the title of a
recent novel; and J.S. (p. 285) informs him that the title is Le Morne au Diable, by Eugène
Sue. The fact is, that "La Morne au Diable" is the principal scene of the events described,
and nothing more. The title is L'Aventurier, ou la Barbe-bleue; and an English translation,
styled the Female Blue Beard, or the Adventurer, was published in 1845 by W. Strange, 21. Paternoster
Row.

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia, W.I., Nov. 1850

Tablet to Napoleon (Vol. i., p. 461.).--The form and punctuation given to this inscription
by C. suggest its true meaning. Napoleon is called the Egyptian, the Italian, for reasons similar
to those for which Publius Cornelius Scipio obtained the name of "Africanus." There is, however,
another sense in which the epithet "bis Italicus" is applicable to Napoleon: he was an Italian
by birth as well as by conquest.

As to the "lingual purity" of the inscription, there is not much to be said about it, one way
or the other. It is on a level with most modern inscriptions and epitaphs in the Latin language;
neither so elegant as the Latinity of Dr. Johnson, or Walter Savage Landor, nor yet so hackneyed
as our "Latin de cuisine."

HENRY H. BREEN.

St. Lucia, W.I., Nov. 1850.

North Sides of Churchyards (Vol. ii., pp. 55. &c.)--In a chapter on the custom of burying on
the south side of churches, in Thompson's History of Swine, published 1824, I find the following
mention of the north side being appropriated to felons:

    "The writer hereof remembers, that between fifty and sixty years ago, a
    man who was executed at Lincoln, was brought to Swine, and buried on
    the north side of the church, as the proper place in which to bury a
    felon."

I have heard it stated by several inhabitants of the parish, that it is only within a few years
that burials began to be made irrespectively on the north side. Whilst speaking of things in
connection with this church, I may mention for the {75} interest of antiquaries, that only
a short time ago, the sexton discovered a very curious fresco of the Virgin on one of the pillars
in the north aisle. There is an inscription beneath the figure, but so very indistinct, as
not to admit of being deciphered.

R.W.E.

Hull.

Wisby (Vol. ii., p. 444.).--

    "Wisby was fortified about 1200 against its country neighbours; and
    King Magnus, 1288, quieted another civil war, and allowed the citizens
    to restore their fallen walls."--Olaus Magnus, ii. 24.

    "It was destroyed in 1361 (Koch) by Walderna, King of Denmark, who,
    taking advantage of the discords in Sweden, and having flattered the
    King Magnus till he made him a mere tool of his own, conquered or
    destroyed some valuable parts of the Swedish dominions, and among the
    rest Gothland."--Johannes Magnus, Rex Suev., xxi. 6.

and in 7.:

    "... ob direptum insigne emporium Vis becense."

    "As, therefore, it was not an individual event, probably it had not any
    individual cause, and that the pane of glass story is not
    true."--Olaus Magnus, x. 16

The same Olaus (ii. 24.) says, that pride and discord were its ruin; that its inhabitants scattered
into the continental cities; and that in his time, 1545, there were splendid ruins, iron doors,
brass or copper windows, once gilt or silvered.

C.B.

Singing of Swans (Vol. ii., p. 475.).--If your correspondent T.J. will turn to Erman's Travels
in Siberia translated by Cooley, vol. ii. p. 43., he will find that the singing of swans is
by no means so groundless a notion as Bp. Percy supposed. Erman says the notes of the Cygnus
Olor are most beautifully clear and loud--"and that this bird, when wounded, pours forth its
last breath in such notes, is now known for certain." There is more also to the same purpose.

A.C.M.

Dacre Monument at Herstmonceux (Vol. ii., p. 478.).--In answer to part of the third Query of
your correspondent E.V., I beg to inform him that sable, a cross potent or, is the coat of
Alleyn. Sable, a cross patonce or, belongs to Lascelles. Argent a fesse gules belongs to the
Solers family. And barry of six argent and gules, with a canton ermine, is the coat of Apseley
of Sussex.

H.C.K.

Herstmonceux Castle (Vol. ii., p. 477.).--The elucidation of your correspondent's second Query
suggests several further questions; for instance--Was Juliana wife of William, the owner of
the estate? If so, did she die in the lifetime of her husband? If so, did she leave issue?
semble not, and assuming her to have no direct heirs, the estate would escheat. Was the King
lord of the fee? Were William de Warburton and Ingelram de Monceaux relatives of the half blood
of Juliana? If so, a re-grant to them, if claimants, would not, I imagine, have been unusual
upon payment of a fine to the crown. It would almost seems as if a doubt existed as to the
heirship, from the expression "whose next of kin they SAY they are." This note is conjectural
only, and is therefore offered with much diffidence.

I.B.C.

Suem.--Ferling.--Grasson (Vol. iii., p. 7.).--It is obvious that your correspondent's extract
from the Rotherfield court-roll is not accurately transcribed. The original most probably contains
no such words as suem.

Ferling is a well-known word in old legal phraseology. As a term of superficial measure it
denotes a quarter of an acre; of lineal measure, an eighth of a mile, or furlong.

Grassum is the term commonly used in the northern parts of the kingdom to signify the fine,
or foregift in money, paid by a lessee for the renewal of his lease from a lay or ecclesiastical
corporation. It is derived from the A.-S. Gærsum or Gærsame, a treasure; the root of which
is still retained in the northern word Gear, goods or stuff.

[Delta].

Jan. 10. 1851.

Portrait of Archbishop Williams (Vol. iii., p. 8.).--Your correspondent Y.Y. desires to be
informed of the "locus" of the portraits of several bishops, among them of John Williams, Archbishop
of York. There is a full-length in the hall of this college, which I shall have great pleasure
in showing to him should he ever find it convenient to pay Cambridge a visit.

P.J.F. GANTILLON.

St. John's College.

Swans hatched during Thunder (Vol. ii., p. 510.).--Some years ago I purchased a pair of swans,
and, during the first breeding season after I procured them, they made a nest in which they
deposited seven eggs. After they had been sitting about six weeks, I observed to my servant,
who had charge of them and the other water-fowl, that it was about the time for the swans to
hatch. He immediately said, that it was no use expecting it till there had been a rattling
peal of thunder to crack the egg-shells, as they were so hard and thick that it was impossible
for the cygnets to break them without some such assistance. Perhaps this is the reason why
swans are said to be hatched during a thunder-storm. I need only say, that this is a popular
fallacy, as swans regularly hatch after sitting six weeks, whether there happens to be a thunder-storm
or not.

HENRY E.

Etymology of Apricot (Vol. ii., p. 420.).--I cannot agree in the opinion expressed by your
correspondent E.C.H., that this word is derived from the Latin præcox, signifying "early-ripening,"--that
the words [Greek: prokokkia] and [Greek: prekokkia] are {76} Græcised Latin,--and that the
Arabs themselves, adopting the word with a slight variation, made it al-bercoy.

The fact of the fruit itself being of Asiatic origin, renders it in the highest degree improbable
that the Orientals would borrow a name for it from the Latin.

My own opinion is, that the reverse is the case--that the Latin is merely a corruption of the
Arabic; and that the Latins, in adopting the word, naturally gave it the slight alteration
which rendered the Arabic word, to them unmeaning, appropriately significant of the nature
of the fruit.

I find that in various languages the word strolls thus in the Latin of the middle age, avercoccius--in
the modern Greek, [Greek: berykokkion]--in the Italian, albercocco, albicocca--in the Spanish,
albaricoque--and all these various words, undeducible from the Latin præcox, are readily derivable
from the Arabic word, the prefix al, which is merely the article, being in some cases dropped,
and in others retained.

I may add, as a curious fact, that, in the south of Italy, of which I am a native, the common
people call the apricot verricocca, and the peach precucco, although the former ripen earlier
than the latter.

A.P. DI PIO, Italo-Græcos.

Carlisle.

"Plurima gemma latet cæcâ tellure sepulta" (Vol. ii., p.133.).--In the course of my reading,
some time back, I met with a passage which was given as quotation from Bishop Hall. I transcribe
it, as it appears to me to approach nearer to the above hexameter than even Gray's lines:

    "There is many a rich stone laid up, in the bowels of the earth; many a
    fair pearl in the bosom of the sea, that never was seen, nor ever shall
    be."

Time when Herodotus wrote (Vol. ii., p. 405.).--The passage in Herodotus which shows that he
was still employed on his history when he was seventy-five, is in his first book. But A.W.H.
thinks, that, as it is a general introduction, showing why he mentioned all places, small or
great, it must have been written at the beginning. I should infer the contrary; that he would
give an account why he had done so after he had done it, and not while it rested merely in
intention.

But perhaps it may be said, that [Greek: ên] is in the former part of the sentence, and therefore
might have been repeated in the latter part, which is the converse of it, though it might not
be exactly the proper tense.

However, F. Clinton puts down his birth B.C. 484; 452 or 456 as the years in which he read
his history at the Olympic Games; and 408 as a year in which he was still adding to it.

However, if he wrote the passage when he was thirty, that would justify the past tense, which
perhaps, too, we have a right to construe have been, for that verb has no perfect preterite.

C.B.

Lucy and Colin (Vol. iii., p. 7.).--The ballad adverted to, which is the one translated by
Vincent Bourne, is by Tickel, and will be found in any collection of his works. Notwithstanding
Southeys epithet "wretched!" it will always be admired, both in the original and the translation.

JAMES CROSSLEY.

Manchester, Jan. 18. 1851.

Translations of Apuleius, &c. (Vol. ii., p. 464.).--In answer to your correspondent, G.P.I.,
concerning a translation of the Golden Ass of Apuleius, I beg you will insert the following
particulars.

There is a copy in the British Museum (Press Mark, case 21. b.) of a translation by Adlington.
The title is as follows--"The XI. Bookes of the Golden Asse, conteining the Metamorphosie of
Lucius Apuleius, enterlaced with an excellent Narration of the Marriage of Cupido and Psiches,
set out in the iiii. v. and vi. Bookes. Translated out of Latine into Englishe by William Adlington.
Imprinted at London, in Fleet streate, and the sign of the Oliphante, by Henry Wykes. Anno
1566." This work is of extreme rarity. At the end of the Dedicatory Epistle there is a MS.
note, which I transcribe:--"This translation and its author has escaped ye notice of the Industrious
Oxford Antiquary[14], for I find not his name in the Athen. Oxon., nor is the book menconed
(mentioned) in Mr. Ames's Typographical Antiquities, both which omissions add a singular rareness
to this scarce book. R.E.W." The pagination of the book is only on one side, and contains 127
folios, including the table of contents. Ritson (vide note on fly-leaf) does not notice this
edition (1566), nor the second in 1571, but quotes that of 1596.

KENNETH MACKENZIE.

[Footnote 11: Wood.]

Taylor's translation of Apuleius's Golden Ass, Lond. 1822, 2 vols., is said by Lowndes to be
an esteemed version.

The French translations of the same work, according to De Bure (see Manuel du Libraire) are
very inferior.

C.I.R.

Etymology of "Grasson" (Vol. iii., p. 8.).--Grasson appears to be derived front "grassor,"
"to assail." Livy somewhere has the following--"Grassor in possessionem agri"--which would
be rendered, "To enter upon it by force;" it being only by the payment of the fine (Grasson)
that the entry, "Grassor," or alienation of copyhold lands, could be warded off: hence the
act of the lord of the manor (Grassor) became the name for the fine paid by this tenant, "Grasson."

BLOWER.

Lynch Law (Vol. iii., p. 24.).--Webster's {77} American Dictionary (1848) explains this phrase
thus--

    "The practice of punishing men for crimes and offences by private
    unauthorized persons, without a legal trial. The term is said to be
    derived from a Virginian farmer, named Lynch, who thus took the law
    into his own hands." (U.S.)

Webster is considered the highest authority in America, or I should not offer the above.

G.H.B.

"Talk not of Love" (Vol. iii., p. 7.).--The song quoted by your Querist, A. M., was written
by Mrs. MacLehose, the "Clarinda" of Burns, and is to be found in most of the lives of the
Scottish poet.

    [J.H., JR., says it is printed in Chambers's Journal, No. 1. New
    Series. DANIEL FERGUSON points them out at p. 212. of a Collection of
    Songs of England and Scotland, published by Cochrane, of Waterloo
    Place; and in vol. ii. of Johnson's Scots Musical Museum; and G.T.
    also refers to the last-named collection.]

The Butcher Duke (Vol. iii., p. 8.).--The song referred to by MEZZOTINTO is to be found in
most of the collections of Scotch songs, under the name of "Bonnie Laddie, Highland Laddie,"
for which old air it was written; or, when only partially printed, by the commencing line of
one of its stanzas:--

  "Geordie sits in Charlie's chair."

It is one of the numerous Jacobite songs composed either about 1715, by some one "out in the
Fifteen," or later by a poet of "the Forty-five." The author's name is unknown. In the collection
of Scottish songs, published by Robert Chambers in 1829, the song, consisting of no less than
twenty-two stanzas, will be found at p. 367.

    [L.M.M.R. has also kindly transcribed the song from the Scots Musical
    Museum; and DR. C., of Newcastle, who says "it is well known in the
    remoter districts of Northumberland," obligingly offers to furnish
    MEZZOTINTO with a copy, if he should desire it.]

Curfew (Vol. ii., p. 103.).--The Curfew is rung at Handsworth, near Sheffield.

H.J.

Robertson Struan (Vol. iii., p. 40.).--As one of those who quarter the coat of Robertson Struan,
I may perhaps be able to afford C.R.M. some slight information. My maternal grandfather was
a son of William Robertson, of Richmond, one of whose daughters married Sir David Dundas, Bart.
The arms borne by him were, Gules, three wolves' heads erased, langued, azure. A selvage man
in chains hanging beneath the shield. Crest, a bare cubit, supporting a regal Crown. Motto,
"Virtutis Gloriæ Merces."

W.J. BERNHARD SMITH.

Temple.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

The landing of Charles Edward Stuart, and the "Seven Men of Moidart," on the memorable 25th
July, 1745, was the opening of the last, and, in many respects, the most brilliant and stirring
chapter in the Romance of English History. That Mr. Murray has therefore done wisely in the
publication, in a separate form, of The Forty-Five: by Lord Mahon, being the Narrative of the
Insurrection of 1745, extracted from Lord Mahon's History of England, there can be little doubt.
The memory of that eventful period is so kept alive among us, by snatches of Jacobite ballads,
and recitals of the strange incidents in which it was so rich, that this separate publication
of so much of Lord Mahon's History of England from the Peace of Utrecht (1713) to the Peace
of Paris (1763) as relates to its "moving accidents by flood and field," will be a great boon
to those numerous readers who have neither means, time, nor opportunity to peruse Lord Mahon's
interesting narrative in that valuable contribution to our national history for which it was
originally written.

Some time since the British Museum purchased for about 120l. a volume containing no less than
sixty-four early French Farces and Moralities, printed between the year 1542 and 1548, of which
a very large proportion was entirely unknown. How important a collection of materials for the
early history of the Drama, especially in France, is contained in this precious volume, we
learn from a work which has reached us, "pas destiné au commerce," under the title of Description
Bibliographique et Analyse d'un Livre unique qui se trouve au Musée Britannique, which contains
a short but able analysis of the various pieces which formed the volume thus fortunately secured
for our national library. Though the name of the editor is stated, on the title-page, to be
Tridace-Nafe-Théobrome, Gentilhomme Breton, we strongly suspect that no such gentleman is to
be found; and that we are really indebted for this highly curious and interesting book to a
gentleman who has already laid the world of letters under great obligation, M. Delpierre, the
accomplished Secretary of Legation of the Belgian Embassy.

Literature, Science, and the Arts have sustained a heavy loss in the death of that accomplished
patron of them--that most amiable nobleman the Marquess of Northampton. His noble simplicity
and single-mindedness of character, and his unaffected kindliness of manner, endeared him to
all who had the good fortune to be honoured with his acquaintance, and by all of whom his death
will be long and most deeply regretted.

Mr. Sandys, F.S.A., of Canterbury, has issued a Prospectus for the immediate publication, by
Subscription, of the Consuetudines Kanciæ: a History of Gavelkind and other remarkable Customs
in the County of Kent.

Messrs. Sotheby and Wilkinson will sell on Monday next, and four following days, a very select
and valuable Library, the property of a gentleman deceased, including among other choice lots,
two early MSS. of the Divina Comedia, and an extensive, rare, and interesting series of early
editions of Dante. {78}

Books Received.--Clark's Introduction to Heraldry (London, Washbourne), fourteenth edition,
which contains a chapter and plates, which are entirely new, on Heraldry in conjunction with
Architecture;--Hints and Queries intended to promote the Preservation of Antiquities and the
Collection and Arrangement of Information on the Subject of Local History and Tradition--a
most useful little tract, highly creditable to the Kilkenny Archæological Society, by whose
order it has been printed for circulation;--The Peril of the Papal Aggression; or, the Case
as it stands between the Queen and the Pope, by Anglicanus. London, Bosworth.

Catalogues Received.--Charles Skeet's (21. King William Street, Charing Cross) Catalogue No.
1. for 1851, of a Miscellaneous Collection of Books, New and Second-hand; John Petheram's (94.
High Holborn) Catalogue, Part CXX. (No. 1. for 1851) of Old and New Books; Edward Stibbs' (331.
Chandos Street) Catalogue No. XVII. of Books Old and New.

