Beginneth here the Instruction made by the Majesty of the King of Upper and Lower Egypt SEHOTEP-'EB-RÊ',
Son of the Sun AMENEMHÊ'ET, the Justified.[1]  He speaketh thus in discovering words of truth
unto his Son, the Lord of the World:

1.  Shine forth, he saith, even as the God.  Hearken to that which I say unto thee: that thou
may reign over the land, that thou may govern the world, that thou may excel in goodness.

2.  Let one withdraw himself from his subordinates entirely.  It befalleth that mankind give
their hearts unto one that causeth them fear.   Mix not among them alone; fill not thine heart
with a brother; know not a trusted friend; make for thyself no familiar dependents; in these
things is no satisfaction.

3.  When thou liest down have care for thy very life,[2] since friends exist not for a man
in the {68} day of misfortunes.  I gave to the beggar, and caused the orphan to live; I made
him that had not to attain, even as he that had.

4.  But it was the eater of my food that made insurrection against me; to whom I gave mine
hands, he created disturbance thereby; they that arrayed them in my fine linen regarded me
a shadow; and it was they that anointed themselves with my spices that entered my harem.

5.  My images are among the living; and my achievements are among men. But I have made an heroic
story that hath not been heard; a great feat of arms that hath not been seen.  Surely one fighteth
for a lassoed ox that forgetteth yesterday;[3] and good fortune is of no avail unto one that
cannot perceive it.

6.  It was after the evening meal, and night was come.  I took for myself an hour of ease.
I lay down upon my bed, for I was weary.  My heart began to wander (?).  I slept.  And lo!
weapons were brandished, and there was conference concerning me.  I acted as the serpent of
the desert.[4]

7.  I awoke to fight; I was alone.  I found one struck down, it was the captain of the guard.
Had I received quickly the arms from his hand, {69} I had driven back the dastards by smiting
around.  But he was not a brave man on that night, nor could I fight alone; an occasion of
prowess cometh not to one surprised.  Thus was I.

8.  Behold, then, vile things came to pass, for I was without thee; the courtiers knew not
that I had passed on to thee [my power], I sat not with thee on the throne.[5]  Let me, then,
make thy plans.  Because I awed them not I was not unmindful of them; but mine heart bringeth
not to remembrance the slackness of servants.

9.  Is it the custom of women to gather together assailants? are assassins reared within my
palace? was the opening done by cutting through the ground?  The underlings were deceived as
to what they did.[6]  But misfortunes have not come in my train since my birth; nor hath there
existed the equal of me as a doer of valiance.

10.  I forced my way up to Elephantinê, I went down unto the coast-lakes;[7] I have stood upon
the boundaries of the land, and I have seen its centre.  I have set the limits of might by
my might in my deeds.

11.  I raised corn, I loved Nôpi[8]; the Nile begged of me every valley.  In my reign none
{70} hungered; none thirsted therein.  They were contented in that which I did, saying concerning
me, 'Every commandment is meet.'

12.  I overcame lions; I carried off crocodiles.  I cast the Nubians under my feet; I carried
off the Southern Nubians; I caused the Asiatics to flee, even as hounds.

13.  I have made me an house, adorned with gold, its ceiling with lapis lazuli, its walls having
deep foundations.  Its doors are of copper, their bolts are of bronze.  It is made for ever-lasting;
eternity is in awe of it.  I know every dimension thereof, O Lord of the World!

