That there is a Supreme Being, infinite, absolute and eternal, whose existence is unknown to
us, and who has created the Universe, is not more conceivable than that the material basis
of the Universe itself, its matter, is eternal and infinite and absolute. We do not understand
the existence of the world one whit the better by telling ourselves that God created it. It
is a begging of the question, or a merely verbal solution, intended to cover up our ignorance.
In strict truth, we deduce the existence of the Creator from the fact that the thing created
exists, a process which does not justify rationally His existence. You cannot deduce a necessity
from a fact, or else everything were necessary.

And if from the nature of the Universe we pass to what is called its order, which is supposed
to necessitate an Ordainer, we may say that order is what there is, and we do not conceive
of any other. This deduction of God's existence from the order of the Universe implies a transition
from the ideal to the real order, an outward projection of our mind, a supposition that the
rational explanation of a thing produces the thing itself. Human art, instructed by Nature,
possesses a conscious creative faculty, by means of which it apprehends the process of creation,
and we proceed to transfer this conscious and artistic creative faculty to the consciousness
of an artist-creator, but from what nature he in his turn learnt his art we cannot tell.

The traditional analogy of the watch and the watchmaker is inapplicable to a Being absolute,
infinite and eternal. It is, moreover, only another way of explaining nothing. For to say that
the world is as it is and not otherwise because God made it so, while at the same time we do
not know for what reason He made it so, is to say nothing. And if we knew for what reason God
made it so, then God is superfluous and the reason itself suffices. If everything were mathematics,
if there were no irrational element, we should not have had recourse to this explanatory theory
of a Supreme Ordainer, who is nothing but the reason of the irrational, and so merely another
cloak for our ignorance. And let us not discuss here that absurd proposition that, if all the
type in a printing-press were printed at random, the result could not possibly be the composition
of Don Quixote. Something would be composed which would be as good as Don Quixote for those
who would have to be content with it and would grow in it and would form part of it.

In effect, this traditional supposed proof of God's existence resolves itself fundamentally
into hypostatizing or substantivating the explanation or reason of a phenomenon; it amounts
to saying that Mechanics is the cause of movement, Biology of life, Philology of language,
Chemistry of bodies, by simply adding the capital letter to the science and converting it into
a force distinct from the phenomena from which we derive it and distinct from our mind which
effects the derivation. But the God who is the result of this process, a God who is nothing
but reason hypostatized and projected towards the infinite, cannot possibly be felt as something
living and real, nor yet be conceived of save as a mere idea which will die with us.

The question arises, on the other hand, whether a thing the idea of which has been conceived
but which has no real existence, does not exist because God wills that it should not exist,
or whether God does not will it to exist because, in fact, it does not exist; and, with regard
to the impossible, whether a thing is impossible because God wills it so, or whether God wills
it so because, in itself and by the very fact of its own inherent absurdity, it is impossible.
God has to submit to the logical law of contradiction, and He cannot, according to the theologians,
cause two and two to make either more or less than four. Either the law of necessity is above
Him or He Himself is the law of necessity. And in the moral order the question arises whether
falsehood, or homicide, or adultery, are wrong because He has so decreed it, or whether He
has so decreed it because they are wrong. If the former, then God is a capricious and unreasonable
God, who decrees one law when He might equally well have decreed another, or, if the latter,
He obeys an intrinsic nature and essence which exists in things themselves independently of
Him--that is to say, independently of His sovereign will; and if this is the case, if He obeys
the innate reason of things, this reason, if we could but know it, would suffice us without
any further need of God, and since we do not know it, God explains nothing. This reason would
be above God. Neither is it of any avail to say that this reason is God Himself, the supreme
reason of things. A reason of this kind, a necessary reason, is not a personal something. It
is will that gives personality. And it is because of this problem of the relations between
God's reason, necessarily necessary, and His will, necessarily free, that the logical and Aristotelian
God will always be a contradictory God.

The scholastic theologians never succeeded in disentangling themselves from the difficulties
in which they found themselves involved when they attempted to reconcile human liberty with
divine prescience and with the knowledge that God possesses of the free and contingent future;
and that is strictly the reason why the rational God is wholly inapplicable to the contingent,
for the notion of contingency is fundamentally the same as the notion of irrationality. The
rational God is necessarily necessary in His being and in His working; in every single case
He cannot do other than the best, and a number of different things cannot all equally be the
best, for among infinite possibilities there is only one that is best accommodated to its end,
just as among the infinite number of lines that can be drawn from one point to another, there
is only one straight line. And the rational God, the God of reason, cannot but follow in each
case the straight line, the line that leads most directly to the end proposed, a necessary
end, just as the only straight line that leads to it is a necessary line. And thus for the
divinity of God is substituted His necessity. And in the necessity of God, His free will--that
is to say, His conscious personality--perishes. The God of our heart's desire, the God who
shall save our soul from nothingness, must needs be an arbitrary God.

Not because He thinks can God be God, but because He works, because He creates; He is not a
contemplative but an active God. A God-Reason, a theoretical or contemplative God, such as
is this God of theological rationalism, is a God that is diluted in His own contemplation.
With this God corresponds, as we shall see, the beatific vision, understood as the supreme
expression of human felicity. A quietist God, in short, as reason, by its very essence, is
quietist.

There remains the other famous proof of God's existence, that of the supposed unanimous consent
in a belief in Him among all peoples. But this proof is not strictly rational, neither is it
an argument in favour of the rational God who explains the Universe, but of the God of the
heart, who makes us live. We should be justified in calling it a rational proof only on the
supposition that we believed that reason was identical with a more or less unanimous agreement
among all peoples, that it corresponded with the verdict of a universal suffrage, only on the
supposition that we held that vox populi, which is said to be vox Dei, was actually the voice
of reason.

Such was, indeed, the belief of Lamennais, that tragic and ardent spirit, who affirmed that
life and truth were essentially one and the same thing--would that they were!--and that reason
was one, universal, everlasting and holy (Essai sur l'indifférence, partie iv., chap, viii.).
He invoked the aut omnibus credendum est aut nemini of Lactantius--we must believe all or none--and
the saying of Heraclitus that every individual opinion is fallible, and that of Aristotle that
the strongest proof consists in the general agreement of mankind, and above all that of Pliny
(Paneg. Trajani, lxii.), to the effect that one man cannot deceive all men or be deceived by
all--nemo omnes, neminem omnes fefellerunt. Would that it were so! And so he concludes with
the dictum of Cicero (De natura deorum, lib. iii., cap. ii., 5 and 6), that we must believe
the tradition of our ancestors even though they fail to render us a reason--maioribus autem
nostris, etiam nulla ratione reddita credere.

Let us suppose that this belief of the ancients in the divine interpenetration of the whole
of Nature is universal and constant, and that it is, as Aristotle calls it, an ancestral dogma
(patrios doxa) (Metaphysica, lib. vii., cap. vii.); this would prove only that there is a motive
impelling peoples and individuals--that is to say, all or almost all or a majority of them--to
believe in a God. But may it not be that there are illusions and fallacies rooted in human
nature itself? Do not all peoples begin by believing that the sun turns round the earth? And
do we not all naturally incline to believe that which satisfies our desires? Shall we say with
Hermann[40] that, "if there is a God, He has not left us without some indication of Himself,
and if is His will that we should find Him."

A pious desire, no doubt, but we cannot strictly call it a reason, unless we apply to it the
Augustinian sentence, but which again is not a reason, "Since thou seekest Me, it must be that
thou hast found Me," believing that God is the cause of our seeking Him.

This famous argument from the supposed unanimity of mankind's belief in God, the argument which
with a sure instinct was seized upon by the ancients, is in its essence identical with the
so-called moral proof which Kant employed in his Critique of Practical Reason, transposing
its application from mankind collectively to the individual, the proof which he derives from
our conscience, or rather from our feeling of divinity. It is not a proof strictly or specifically
rational, but vital; it cannot be applied to the logical God, the ens summum, the essentially
simple and abstract Being, the immobile and impassible prime mover, the God-Reason, in a word,
but to the biotic God, to the Being essentially complex and concrete, to the suffering God
who suffers and desires in us and with us, to the Father of Christ who is only to be approached
through Man, through His Son (John xiv. 6), and whose revelation is historical, or if you like,
anecdotical, but not philosophical or categorical.

The unanimous consent of mankind (let us suppose the unanimity) or, in other words, this universal
longing of all human souls who have arrived at the consciousness of their humanity, which desires
to be the end and meaning of the Universe, this longing, which is nothing but that very essence
of the soul which consists in its effort to persist eternally and without a break in the continuity
of consciousness, leads us to the human, anthropomorphic God, the projection of our consciousness
to the Consciousness of the Universe; it leads us to the God who confers human meaning and
finality upon the Universe and who is not the ens summum, the primum movens, nor the Creator
of the Universe, nor merely the Idea-God. It leads us to the living, subjective God, for He
is simply subjectivity objectified or personality universalized--He is more than a mere idea,
and He is will rather than reason. God is Love--that is, Will. Reason, the Word, derives from
Him, but He, the Father, is, above all, Will.

"There can be no doubt whatever," Ritschl says (Rechtfertigung und Versöhnung, iii., chap.
v.), "that a very imperfect view was taken of God's spiritual personality in the older theology,
when the functions of knowing and willing alone were employed to illustrate it. Religious thought
plainly ascribes to God affections of feeling as well. The older theology, however, laboured
under the impression that feeling and emotion were characteristic only of limited and created
personality; it transformed, e.g., the religious idea of the Divine blessedness into eternal
self-knowledge, and that of the Divine wrath into a fixed purpose to punish sin." Yes, this
logical God, arrived at by the via negationis, was a God who, strictly speaking, neither loved
nor hated, because He neither enjoyed nor suffered, an inhuman God, and His justice was a rational
or mathematical justice--that is, an injustice.

The attributes of the living God, of the Father of Christ, must be deduced from His historical
revelation in the Gospel and in the conscience of every Christian believer, and not from metaphysical
reasonings which lead only to the Nothing-God of Scotus Erigena, to the rational or pantheistic
God, to the atheist God--in short, to the de-personalized Divinity.

Not by the way of reason, but only by the way of love and of suffering, do we come to the living
God, the human God. Reason rather separates us from Him. We cannot first know Him in order
that afterwards we may love Him; we must begin by loving Him, longing for Him, hungering after
Him, before knowing Him. The knowledge of God proceeds from the love of God, and this knowledge
has little or nothing of the rational in it. For God is indefinable. To seek to define Him
is to seek to confine Him within the limits of our mind--that is to say, to kill Him. In so
far as we attempt to define Him, there rises up before us--Nothingness.

The idea of God, formulated by a theodicy that claims to be rational, is simply an hypothesis,
like the hypotheses of ether, for example.

Ether is, in effect, a merely hypothetical entity, valuable only in so far as it explains that
which by means of it we endeavour to explain--light, electricity or universal gravitation--and
only in so far as these facts cannot be explained in any other way. In like manner the idea
of God is also an hypothesis, valuable only in so far as it enables us to explain that which
by means of if we endeavour to explain--the essence and existence of the Universe--and only
so long as these cannot be explained in any other way. And since in reality we explain the
Universe neither better nor worse with this idea than without it, the idea of God, the supreme
petitio principii, is valueless.

But if ether is nothing but an hypothesis explanatory of light, air, on the other hand, is
a thing that is directly felt; and even though it did not enable us to explain the phenomenon
of sound, we should nevertheless always be directly aware of it, and, above all, of the lack
of it in moments of suffocation or air-hunger. And in the same way God Himself, not the idea
of God, may become a reality that is immediately felt; and even though the idea of Him does
not enable us to explain either the existence or the essence of the Universe, we have at times
the direct feeling of God, above all in moments of spiritual suffocation. And this feeling--mark
it well, for all that is tragic in it and the whole tragic sense of life is founded upon this--this
feeling is a feeling of hunger for God, of the lack of God. To believe in God is, in the first
instance, as we shall see, to wish that there may be a God, to be unable to live without Him.

So long as I pilgrimaged through the fields of reason in search of God, I could not find Him,
for I was not deluded by the idea of God, neither could I take an idea for God, and it was
then, as I wandered among the wastes of rationalism, that I told myself that we ought to seek
no other consolation than the truth, meaning thereby reason, and yet for all that I was not
comforted. But as I sank deeper and deeper into rational scepticism on the one hand and into
heart's despair on the other, the hunger for God awoke within me, and the suffocation of spirit
made me feel the want of God, and with the want of Him, His reality. And I wished that there
might be a God, that God might exist. And God does not exist, but rather super-exists, and
He is sustaining our existence, existing us (existiéndonos).

God, who is Love, the Father of Love, is the son of love in us. There are men of a facile and
external habit of mind, slaves of reason, that reason which externalizes us, who think it a
shrewd comment to say that so far from God having made man in His image and likeness, it is
rather man who has made his gods or his God in his own image and likeness,[41] and so superficial
are they that they do not pause to consider that if the second of these propositions be true,
as in fact it is, it is owing to the fact that the first is not less true. God and man, in
effect, mutually create one another; God creates or reveals Himself in man and man creates
himself in God. God is His own maker, Deus ipse se facit, said Lactantius (Divinarum Institutionum,
ii., 8), and we may say that He is making Himself continually both in man and by man. And if
each of us, impelled by his love, by his hunger for divinity, creates for himself an image
of God according to his own desire, and if according to His desire God creates Himself for
each of us, then there is a collective, social, human God, the resultant of all the human imaginations
that imagine Him. For God is and reveals Himself in collectivity. And God is the richest and
most personal of human conceptions.

The Master of divinity has bidden us be perfect as our Father who is in heaven is perfect (Matt.
v. 48), and in the sphere of thought and feeling our perfection consists in the zeal with which
we endeavour to equate our imagination with the total imagination of the humanity of which
in God we form a part.

The logical theory of the opposition between the extension and the comprehension of a concept,
the one increasing in the ratio in which the other diminishes, is well known. The concept that
is most extensive and at the same time least comprehensive is that of being or of thing, which
embraces everything that exists and possesses no other distinguishing quality than that of
being; while the concept that is most comprehensive and least extensive is that of the Universe,
which is only applicable to itself and comprehends all existing qualities. And the logical
or rational God, the God obtained by way of negation, the absolute entity, merges, like reality
itself, into nothingness; for, as Hegel pointed out, pure being and pure nothingness are identical.
And the God of the heart, the God who is felt, the God of living men, is the Universe itself
conceived as personality, is the consciousness of the Universe. A God universal and personal,
altogether different from the individual God of a rigid metaphysical monotheism.

I must advert here once again to my view of the opposition that exists between individuality
and personality, notwithstanding the fact that the one demands the other. Individuality is,
if I may so express it, the continent or thing which contains, personality the content or thing
contained, or I might say that my personality is in a certain sense my comprehension, that
which I comprehend or embrace within myself--which is in a certain way the whole Universe--and
that my individuality is my extension; the one my infinite, the other my finite. A hundred
jars of hard earthenware are strongly individualized, but it is possible for them to be all
equally empty or all equally full of the same homogeneous liquid, whereas two bladders of so
delicate a membrane as to admit of the action of osmosis and exosmosis may be strongly differentiated
and contain liquids of a very mixed composition. And thus a man, in so far as he is an individual,
may be very sharply detached from others, a sort of spiritual crustacean, and yet be very poor
in differentiating content. And further, it is true on the other hand that the more personality
a man has and the greater his interior richness and the more he is a society within himself,
the less brusquely he is divided from his fellows. In the same way the rigid God of deism,
of Aristotelian monotheism, the ens summum, is a being in whom individuality, or rather simplicity,
stifles personality. Definition kills him, for to define is to impose boundaries, it is to
limit, and it is impossible to define the absolutely indefinable. This God lacks interior richness;
he is not a society in himself. And this the vital revelation obviated by the belief in the
Trinity, which makes God a society and even a family in himself and no longer a pure individual.
The God of faith is personal; He is a person because He includes three persons, for personality
is not sensible of itself in isolation. An isolated person ceases to be a person, for whom
should he love? And if he does not love, he is not a person. Nor can a simple being love himself
without his love expanding him into a compound being.

It was because God was felt as a Father that the belief in the Trinity arose. For a God-Father
cannot be a single, that is, a solitary, God. A father is always the father of a family. And
the fact that God was felt as a father acted as a continual incentive to conceive Him not merely
anthropomorphically--that is to say, as a man, anthropos--but andromorphically, as a male,
anêr. In the popular Christian imagination, in effect, God the Father is conceived of as a
male. And the reason is that man, homo, anthropos, as we know him, is necessarily either a
male, vir, anêr, or a female, mulier, gynê. And to these may be added the child, who is neuter.
And hence in order to satisfy imaginatively this necessity of feeling God as a perfect man--that
is, as a family--arose the cult of the God-Mother, the Virgin Mary, and the cult of the Child
Jesus.

The cult of the Virgin, Mariolatry, which, by the gradual elevation of the divine element in
the Virgin has led almost to her deification, answers merely to the demand of the feeling that
God should be a perfect man, that God should include in His nature the feminine element. The
progressive exaltation of the Virgin Mary, the work of Catholic piety, having its beginning
in the expression Mother of God, theotokos, deipara, has culminated in attributing to her the
status of co-redeemer and in the dogmatic declaration of her conception without the stain of
original sin. Hence she now occupies a position between Humanity and Divinity and nearer Divinity
than Humanity. And it has been surmised that in course of time she may perhaps even come to
be regarded as yet another personal manifestation of the Godhead.

And yet this might not necessarily involve the conversion of the Trinity into a Quaternity.
If pneuma, in Greek, spirit, instead of being neuter had been feminine, who can say that the
Virgin Mary might not already have become an incarnation or humanization of the Holy Spirit?
That fervent piety which always knows how to mould theological speculation in accordance with
its own desires would have found sufficient warranty for such a doctrine in the text of the
Gospel, in Luke's narrative of the Annunciation where the angel Gabriel hails Mary with the
words, "The Holy Spirit shall come upon thee," pneuma agion epeleusetai epi se (Luke i. 35).
And thus a dogmatic evolution would have been effected parallel to that of the divinization
of Jesus, the Son, and his identification with the Word.

In any case the cult of the Virgin, of the eternal feminine, or rather of the divine feminine,
of the divine maternity, helps to complete the personalization of God by constituting Him a family.

In one of my books (Vida de Don Quijote y Sancho, part ii., chap. lxvii.) I have said that
"God was and is, in our mind, masculine. In His mode of judging and condemning men, He acts
as a male, not as a human person above the limitation of sex; He acts as a father. And to counterbalance
this, the Mother element was required, the Mother who always forgives, the Mother whose arms
are always open to the child when he flies from the frowning brow or uplifted hand of the angry
father; the Mother in whose bosom we seek the dim, comforting memory of that warmth and peace
of our pre-natal unconsciousness, of that milky sweetness that soothed our dreams of innocence;
the Mother who knows no justice but that of forgiveness, no law but that of love. Our weak
and imperfect conception of God as a God with a long beard and a voice of thunder, of a God
who promulgates laws and pronounces dooms, of a God who is the Master of a household, a Roman
Paterfamilias, required counterpoise and complement, and since fundamentally we are unable
to conceive of the personal and living God as exalted above human and even masculine characteristics,
and still less as a neutral or hermaphrodite God, we have recourse to providing Him with a
feminine God, and by the side of the God-Father we have placed the Goddess-Mother, she who
always forgives, because, since she sees with love-blind eyes, she sees always the hidden cause
of the fault and in that hidden cause the only justice of forgiveness ..."

And to this I must now add that not only are we unable to conceive of the full and living God
as masculine simply, but we are unable to conceive of Him as individual simply, as the projection
of a solitary I, an unsocial I, an I that is in reality an abstract I. My living I is an I
that is really a We; my living personal I lives only in other, of other, and by other I's;
I am sprung, from a multitude of ancestors, I carry them within me in extract, and at the same
time I carry within me, potentially, a multitude of descendants, and God, the projection of
my I to the infinite--or rather I, the projection of God to the finite--must also be multitude.
Hence, in order to save the personality of God--that is to say, in order to save the living
God--faith's need--the need of the feeling and the imagination--of conceiving Him and; feeling
Him as possessed of a certain internal multiplicity.

This need the pagan feeling of a living divinity obviated by polytheism. It is the agglomeration
of its gods, the republic of them, that really constitutes its Divinity. The real God of Hellenic
paganism is not so much Father Zeus (Jupiter) as the whole society of gods and demi-gods. Hence
the solemnity of the invocation of Demosthenes when he invoked all the gods and all the goddesses:
tois theohis euchomai pasi kahi pasais. And when the rationalizers converted the term god,
theos, which is properly an adjective, a quality predicated of each one of the gods, into a
substantive, and added the definite article to it, they produced the god, o theos, the dead
and abstract god of philosophical rationalism, a substantivized quality and therefore void
of personality. For the masculine concrete god (el dios) is nothing but the neuter abstract
divine quality (lo divino). Now the transition from feeling the divinity in all things to substantivating
it and converting the Divinity into God, cannot be achieved without feeling undergoing a certain
risk. And the Aristotelian God, the God of the logical proofs, is nothing more than the Divinity,
a concept and not a living person who can be felt and with whom through love man can communicate.
This God is merely a substantivized adjective; He is a constitutional God who reigns but does
not govern, and Knowledge is His constitutional charter.

And even in Greco-Latin paganism itself the tendency towards a living monotheism is apparent
in the fact that Zeus was conceived of and felt as a father, Zeus patêr, as Homer calls him,
the Ju-piter or Ju-pater of the Latins, and as a father of a whole widely extended family of
gods and goddesses who together with him constituted the Divinity.

The conjunction of pagan polytheism with Judaic monotheism, which had endeavoured by other
means to save the personality of God, gave birth to the feeling of the Catholic God, a God
who is a society, as the pagan God of whom I have spoken was a society, and who at the same
time is one, as the God of Israel finally became one. Such is the Christian Trinity, whose
deepest sense rationalistic deism has scarcely ever succeeded in understanding, that deism,
which though more or less impregnated with Christianity, always remains Unitarian or Socinian.

And the truth is that we feel God less as a superhuman consciousness than as the actual consciousness
of the whole human race, past, present, and future, as the collective consciousness of the
whole race, and still more, as the total and infinite consciousness which embraces and sustains
all consciousnesses, infra-human, human, and perhaps, super-human. The divinity that there
is in everything, from the lowest--that is to say, from the least conscious--of living forms,
to the highest, including our own human consciousness, this divinity we feel to be personalized,
conscious of itself, in God. And this gradation of consciousnesses, this sense of the gulf
between the human and the fully divine, the universal, consciousness, finds its counterpart
in the belief in angels with their different hierarchies, as intermediaries between our human
consciousness and that of God. And these gradations a faith consistent with itself must believe
to be infinite, for only by an infinite number of degrees is it possible to pass from the finite
to the infinite.

Deistic rationalism conceives God as the Reason of the Universe, but its logic compels it to
conceive Him as an impersonal reason--that is to say, as an idea--while deistic vitalism feels
and imagines God as Consciousness, and therefore as a person or rather as a society of persons.
The consciousness of each one of us, in effect, is a society of persons; in me there are various
I's and even the I's of those among whom I live, live in me.

The God of deistic rationalism, in effect, the God of the logical proofs of His existence,
the ens realissimum and the immobile prime mover, is nothing more than a Supreme Reason, but
in the same sense in which we can call the law of universal gravitation the reason of the falling
of bodies, this law being merely the explanation of the phenomenon. But will anyone say that
that which we call the law of universal gravitation, or any other law or mathematical principle,
is a true and independent reality, that it is an angel, that it is something which possesses
consciousness of itself and others, that it is a person? No, it is nothing but an idea without
any reality outside of the mind of him who conceives it. And similarly this God-Reason either
possesses consciousness of himself or he possesses no reality outside the mind that conceives
him. And if he possesses consciousness of himself, he becomes a personal reason, and then all
the value of the traditional proofs disappears, for these proofs only proved a reason, but
not a supreme consciousness. Mathematics prove an order, a constancy, a reason in the series
of mechanical phenomena, but they 'do not prove that this reason is conscious of itself. This
reason is a logical necessity, but the logical necessity does not prove the teleological or
finalist necessity. And where there is no finality there is no personality, there is no consciousness.

The rational God, therefore--that is to say, the God who is simply the Reason of the Universe
and nothing more--consummates his own destruction, is destroyed in our mind in so far as he
is such a God, and is only born again in us when we feel him in our heart as a living person,
as Consciousness, and no longer merely as the impersonal and objective Reason of the Universe.
If we wish for a rational explanation of the construction of a machine, all that we require
to know is the mechanical science of its constructor; but if we would have a reason for the
existence of such a machine, then, since it is the work not of Nature but of man, we must suppose
a conscious, constructive being. But the second part of this reasoning is not applicable to
God, even though it be said that in Him the mechanical science and the mechanician, by means
of which the machine was constructed, are one and the same thing. From the rational point of
view this identification is merely a begging of the question. And thus it is that reason destroys
this Supreme Reason, in so far as the latter is a person.

The human reason, in effect, is a reason that is based upon the irrational, upon the total
vital consciousness, upon will and feeling; our human reason is not a reason that can prove
to us the existence of a Supreme Reason, which in its turn would have to be based upon the
Supreme Irrational, upon the Universal Consciousness. And the revelation of this Supreme Consciousness
in our feeling and imagination, by love, by faith, by the process of personalization, is that
which leads us to believe in the living God.

And this God, the living God, your God, our God, is in me, is in you, lives in us, and we live
and move and have our being in Him. And He is in us by virtue of the hunger, the longing, which
we have for Him, He is Himself creating the longing for Himself. And God is in each one of
us in the measure in which each one feels Him and loves Him. "If of two men," says Kierkegaard,
"one prays to the true God without sincerity of heart, and the other prays to an idol with
all the passion of an infinite yearning, it is the first who really prays to an idol, while
the second really prays to God." It would be better to say that the true God is He to whom
man truly prays and whom man truly desires. And there may even be a truer revelation in superstition
itself than in theology. The venerable Father of the long beard and white locks who appears
among the clouds carrying the globe of the world in his hand is more living and more real than
the ens realissimum of theodicy.

Reason is an analytical, that is, a dissolving force, whenever it transfers its activity from
the form of intuitions, whether those of the individual instinct of preservation or those of
the social instinct of perpetuation, and applies it to the essence and matter of them. Reason
orders the sensible perceptions which give us the material world; but when its analysis is
exercised upon the reality of the perceptions themselves, it dissolves them and plunges us
into a world of appearances, a world of shadows without consistency, for outside the domain
of the formal, reason is nihilist and annihilating. And it performs the same terrible office
when we withdraw it from its proper domain and apply it to the scrutiny of the imaginative
intuitions which give us the spiritual world. For reason annihilates and imagination completes,
integrates or totalizes; reason by itself alone kills, and it is imagination that gives life.
If it is true that imagination by itself alone, in giving us life without limit, leads us to
lose our identity in the All and also kills us as individuals, it kills us by excess of life.
Reason, the head, speaks to us the word Nothing! imagination, the heart, the word All! and
between all and nothing, by the fusion of the all and the nothing within us, we live in God,
who is All, and God lives in us who, without Him, are nothing. Reason reiterates, Vanity of
vanities! all is vanity! And imagination answers, Plenitude of plenitudes! all is plenitude!
And thus we live the vanity of plenitude or the plenitude of vanity.

And so deeply rooted in the depths of man's being is this vital need of living a world[42]
illogical, irrational, personal or divine, that those who do not believe in God, or believe
that they do not believe in Him, believe nevertheless in some little pocket god or even devil
of their own, or in an omen, or in a horseshoe picked up by chance on the roadside and carried
about with them to bring them good luck and defend them from that very reason whose loyal and
devoted henchmen they imagine themselves to be.

The God whom we hunger after is the God to whom we pray, the God of the Pater Noster, of the
Lord's Prayer; the God whom we beseech, before all and above all, and whether we are aware
of it or not, to instil faith into us, to make us believe in Him, to make Himself in us, the
God to whom we pray that His name may be hallowed and that His will may be done--His will,
not His reason--on earth as it is in heaven; but feeling that His will cannot be other than
the essence of our will, the desire to persist eternally.

And such a God is the God of love--how He is it profits us not to ask, but rather let each
consult his own heart and give his imagination leave to picture Him in the remoteness of the
Universe, gazing down upon him with those myriad eyes of His that shine in the night-darkened
heavens. He in whom you believe, reader, He is your God, He who has lived with you and within
you, who was born with you, who was a child when you were a child, who became a man according
as you became a man, who will vanish when you yourself vanish, and who is your principle of
continuity in the spiritual life, for He is the principle of solidarity among all men and in
each man and between men and the Universe, and He is, as you are, a person. And if you believe
in God, God believes in you, and believing in you He creates you continually. For in your essence
you are nothing but the idea that God possesses of you--but a living idea, because the idea
of a God who is living and conscious of Himself, of a God-Consciousness, and apart from what
you are in the society of God you are nothing.

How to define God? Yes, that is our longing. That was the longing of the man Jacob, when, after
wrestling all the night until the breaking of the day with that divine visitant, he cried,
"Tell me, I pray thee, thy name!" (Gen. xxxii. 29). Listen to the words of that great Christian
preacher, Frederick William Robertson, in a sermon preached in Trinity Chapel, Brighton, on
the 10th of June, 1849: "And this is our struggle--the struggle. Let any true man go down into
the deeps of his own being, and answer us--what is the cry that comes from the most real part
of his nature? Is it the cry for daily bread? Jacob asked for that in his first communing with
God--preservation, safety. Is it even this--to be forgiven our sins? Jacob had a sin to be
forgiven, and in that most solemn moment of his existence he did not say a syllable about it.
Or is it this--'Hallowed be Thy name'? No, my brethren. Out of our frail and yet sublime humanity,
the demand that rises in the earthlier hours of our religion may be this--'Save my soul'; but
in the most unearthly moments it is this--'Tell me thy name.' We move through a world of mystery;
and the deepest question is, What is the being that is ever near, sometimes felt, never seen;
that which has haunted us from childhood with a dream of something surpassingly fair, which
has never yet been realized; that which sweeps through the soul at times as a desolation, like
the blast from the wings of the Angel of Death, leaving us stricken and silent in our loneliness;
that which has touched us in our tenderest point, and the flesh has quivered with agony, and
our mortal affections have shrivelled up with pain; that which comes to us in aspirations of
nobleness and conceptions of superhuman excellence? Shall we say It or He? What is It? Who
is He? Those anticipations of Immortality and God--what are they? Are they the mere throbbings
of my own heart, heard and mistaken for a living something beside me? Are they the sound of
my own wishes, echoing through the vast void of Nothingness? or shall I call them God, Father,
Spirit, Love? A living Being within me or outside me? Tell me Thy name, thou awful mystery
of Loveliness! This is the struggle of all earnest life."[43]

Thus Robertson. To which I must add this comment, that Tell me thy name is essentially the
same as Save my soul! We ask Him His name in order that He may save our soul, that He may save
the human soul, that He may save the human finality of the Universe. And if they tell us that
He is called He, that He is the ens realissimum or the Supreme Being or any other metaphysical
name, we are not contented, for we know that every metaphysical name is an X, and we go on
asking Him His name. And there is only one name that satisfies our longing, and that is the
name Saviour, Jesus. God is the love that saves.

The essence of the divine is Love, Will that personalizes and eternalizes, that feels the hunger
for eternity and infinity.

It is ourselves, it is our eternity that we seek in God, it is our divinization. It was Browning
again who said, in Saul,

    'Tis the weakness in strength that I cry for! my flesh that I seek
    In the Godhead!

But this God who saves us, this personal God, the Consciousness of the Universe who envelops
and sustains our consciousnesses, this God who gives human finality to the whole creation--does
He exist? Have we proofs of His existence?

This question leads in the first place to an enquiry into the cleaning of this notion of existence.
What is it to exist and in what sense do we speak of things as not existing?

In its etymological signification to exist is to be outside of ourselves, outside of our mind:
ex-sistere. But is there anything outside of our mind, outside of our consciousness which embraces
the sum of the known? Undoubtedly there is. The matter of knowledge comes to us from without.
And what is the mode of this matter? It is impossible for us to know, for to know is to clothe
matter with form, and hence we cannot know the formless as formless. To do so would be tantamount
to investing chaos with order.

This problem of the existence of God, a problem that is rationally insoluble, is really identical
with the problem of consciousness, of the ex-sistentia and not of the in-sistentia of consciousness,
it is none other than the problem of the substantial existence of the soul, the problem of
the perpetuity of the human soul, the problem of the human finality of the Universe itself.
To believe in a living and personal God, in an eternal and universal consciousness that knows
and loves us, is to believe that the Universe exists for man. For man, or for a consciousness
of the same order as the human consciousness, of the same nature, although sublimated, a consciousness
that is capable of knowing us, in the depth of whose being our memory may live for ever. Perhaps,
as I have said before, by a supreme and desperate effort of resignation we might succeed in
making the sacrifice of our personality provided that we knew that at our death it would go
to enrich a Supreme Personality; provided that we knew that the Universal Soul was nourished
by our souls and had need of them. We might perhaps meet death with a desperate resignation
or with a resigned despair, delivering up our soul to the soul of humanity, bequeathing to
it our work, the work that bears the impress of our person, if it were certain that this humanity
were destined to bequeath its soul in its turn to another soul, when at long last consciousness
shall have become extinct upon this desire-tormented Earth. But is it certain?

And if the soul of humanity is eternal, if the human collective consciousness is eternal, if
there is a Consciousness of the Universe, and if this Consciousness is eternal, why must our
own individual consciousness--yours, reader, mine--be not eternal?

In the vast all of the Universe, must there be this unique anomaly--a consciousness that knows
itself, loves itself and feels itself, joined to an organism which can only live within such
and such degrees of heat, a merely transitory phenomenon? No, it is not mere curiosity that
inspires the wish to know whether or not the stars are inhabited by living organisms, by consciousnesses
akin to our own, and a profound longing enters into that dream that our souls shall pass from
star to star through the vast spaces of the heavens, in an infinite series of transmigrations.
The feeling of the divine makes us wish and believe that everything is animated, that consciousness,
in a greater or less degree, extends through everything. We wish not only to save ourselves,
but to save the world from nothingness. And therefore God. Such is His finality as we feel it.

What would a universe be without any consciousness capable of reflecting it and knowing it?
What would objectified reason be without will and feeling? For us it would be equivalent to
nothing--a thousand times more dreadful than nothing.

If such a supposition is reality, our life is deprived of sense and value.

It is not, therefore, rational necessity, but vital anguish that impels us to believe in God.
And to believe in God--I must reiterate it yet again--is, before all and above all, to feel
a hunger for God, a hunger for divinity, to be sensible of His lack and absence, to wish that
God may exist. And it is to wish to save the human finality of the Universe. For one might
even come to resign oneself to being absorbed by God, if it be that our consciousness is based
upon a Consciousness, if consciousness is the end of the Universe.

"The wicked man hath said in his heart, There is no God." And this is truth. For in his head
the righteous man may say to himself, God does not exist! But only the wicked can say it in
his heart. Not to believe that there is a God or to believe that there is not a God, is one
thing; to resign oneself to there not being a God is another thing, and it is a terrible and
inhuman thing; but not to wish that there be a God exceeds every other moral monstrosity; although,
as a matter of fact, those who deny God deny Him because of their despair at not finding Him.

And now reason once again confronts us with the Sphinx-like question--the Sphinx, in effect,
is reason--Does God exist? This eternal and eternalizing person who gives meaning--and I will
add, a human meaning, for there is none other--to the Universe, is it a substantial something,
existing independently of our consciousness, independently of our desire? Here we arrive at
the insoluble, and it is best that it should be so. Let it suffice for reason that it cannot
prove the impossibility of His existence.

To believe in God is to long for His existence and, further, it is to act as if He existed;
it is to live by this longing and to make it the inner spring of our action. This longing or
hunger for divinity begets hope, hope begets faith, and faith and hope beget charity. Of this
divine longing is born our sense of beauty, of finality, of goodness.

Let us see how this may be.

FOOTNOTES:

[38] Lecture I., p. 36. London, 1895, Black.

[43] Sermons, by the Rev. Frederick W. Robertson. First series, sermon iii., "Jacob's Wrestling."
Kegan Paul, Trench, Trübuer and Co., London, 1898.

IX

FAITH, HOPE, AND CHARITY

Sanctius ac reverentius visum de actis deorum credere quam scire.--TACITUS: Germania, 34.

The road that leads us to the living God, the God of the heart, and that leads us back to Him
when we have left Him for the lifeless God of logic, is the road of faith, not of rational
or mathematical conviction.

And what is faith?

This is the question propounded in the Catechism of Christian Doctrine that was taught us at
school, and the answer runs: Faith is believing what we have not seen.

This, in an essay written some twelve years ago, I amended as follows: "Believing what we have
not seen, no! but creating what we do not see." And I have already told you that believing
in God is, in the first instance at least, wishing that God may be, longing for the existence
of God.

The theological virtue of faith, according to the Apostle Paul, whose definition serves as
the basis of the traditional Christian disquisitions upon it, is "the substance of things hoped
for, the evidence of things not seen," elpizomevôn hupostasis, pragmatôn elegchos ou blepomenôn
(Heb. xi. 1).

The substance, or rather the support and basis, of hope, the guarantee of it. That which connects,
or, rather than connects, subordinates, faith to hope. And in fact we do not hope because we
believe, but rather we believe because we hope. It is hope in God, it is the ardent longing
that there may be a God who guarantees the eternity of consciousness, that leads us to believe
in Him.

But faith, which after all is something compound, comprising a cognitive, logical, or rational
element together with an affective, biotic, sentimental, and strictly irrational element, is
presented to us under the form of knowledge. And hence the insuperable difficulty of separating
it from some dogma or other. Pure faith, free from dogmas, about which I wrote a great deal
years ago, is a phantasm. Neither is the difficulty overcome by inventing the theory of faith
in faith itself. Faith needs a matter to work upon.

Believing is a form of knowing, even if it be no more than a knowing and even a formulating
of our vital longing. In ordinary language the term "believing," however, is used in a double
and even a contradictory sense. It may express, on the one hand, the highest degree of the
mind's conviction of the truth of a thing, and, on the other hand, it may imply merely a weak
and hesitating persuasion of its truth. For if in one sense believing expresses the firmest
kind of assent we are capable of giving, the expression "I believe that it is so, although
I am not sure of it," is nevertheless common in ordinary speech.

And this agrees with what we have said above with respect to uncertainty as the basis of faith.
The most robust faith, in so far as it is distinguished from all other knowledge that is not
pistic or of faith--faithful, as we might say--is based on uncertainty. And this is because
faith, the guarantee of things hoped for, is not so much rational adhesion to a theoretical
principle as trust in a person who assures us of something. Faith supposes an objective, personal
element. We do not so much believe something as believe someone who promises us or assures
us of this or the other thing. We believe in a person and in God in so far as He is a person
and a personalization of the Universe.

This personal or religious element in faith is evident. Faith, it is said, is in itself neither
theoretical knowledge nor rational adhesion to a truth, nor yet is its essence sufficiently
explained by defining it as trust in God. Seeberg says of faith that it is "the inward submission
to the spiritual authority of God, immediate obedience. And in so far as this obedience is
the means of attaining a rational principle, faith is a personal conviction."[44]

The faith which St. Paul defined, pistis in Greek, is better translated as trust, confidence.
The word pistis is derived from the verb peithô, which in its active voice means to persuade
and in its middle voice to trust in someone, to esteem him as worthy of trust, to place confidence
in him, to obey. And fidare se, to trust, is derived from the root fid--whence fides, faith,
and also confidence. The Greek root pith and the Latin fid are twin brothers. In the root of
the word "faith" itself, therefore, there is implicit the idea of confidence, of surrender
to the will of another, to a person. Confidence is placed only in persons. We trust in Providence,
which we conceive as something personal and conscious, not in Fate, which is something impersonal.
And thus it is in the person who tells us the truth, in the person who gives us hope, that
we believe, not directly and immediately in truth itself or in hope itself.

And this personal or rather personifying element in faith extends even to the lowest forms
of it, for it is this that produces faith in pseudo-revelation, in inspiration, in miracle.
There is a story of a Parisian doctor, who, when he found that a quack-healer was drawing away
his clientèle, removed to a quarter of the city as distant as possible from his former abode,
where he was totally unknown, and here he gave himself out as a quack-healer and conducted
himself as such. When he was denounced as an illegal practitioner he produced his doctor's
certificate, and explained his action more or less as follows: "I am indeed a doctor, but if
I had announced myself as such I should not have had as large a clientèle as I have as a quack-healer.
Now that all my clients know that I have studied medicine, however, and that I am a properly
qualified medical man, they will desert me in favour of some quack who can assure them that
he has never studied, but cures simply by inspiration." And true it is that a doctor is discredited
when it is proved that he has never studied medicine and possesses no qualifying certificate,
and that a quack is discredited when it is proved that he has studied and is a qualified practitioner.
For some believe in science and in study, while others believe in the person, in inspiration,
and even in ignorance.

"There is one distinction in the world's geography which comes immediately to our minds when
we thus state the different thoughts and desires of men concerning their religion. We remember
how the whole world is in general divided into two hemispheres upon this matter. One half of
the world--the great dim East--is mystic. It insists upon not seeing anything too clearly.
Make any one of the great ideas of life distinct and clear, and immediately it seems to the
Oriental to be untrue. He has an instinct which tells him that the vastest thoughts are too
vast for the human mind, and that if they are made to present themselves in forms of statement
which the human mind can comprehend, their nature is violated and their strength is lost.

"On the other hand, the Occidental, the man of the West, demands clearness and is impatient
with mystery. He loves a definite statement as much as his brother of the East dislikes it.
He insists on knowing what the eternal and infinite forces mean to his personal life, how they
will make him personally happier and better, almost how they will build the house over his
head, and cook the dinner on his hearth. This is the difference between the East and the West,
between man on the banks of the Ganges and man on the banks of the Mississippi. Plenty of exceptions,
of course, there are--mystics in Boston and St. Louis, hard-headed men of facts in Bombay and
Calcutta. The two great dispositions cannot be shut off from one another by an ocean or a range
of mountains. In some nations and places--as, for instance, among the Jews and in our own New
England--they notably commingle. But in general they thus divide the world between them. The
East lives in the moonlight of mystery, the West in the sunlight of scientific fact. The East
cries out to the Eternal for vague impulses. The West seizes the present with light hands,
and will not let it go till it has furnished it with reasonable, intelligible motives. Each
misunderstands, distrusts, and in large degree despises the other. But the two hemispheres
together, and not either one by itself, make up the total world." Thus, in one of his sermons,
spoke the great Unitarian preacher Phillips Brooks, late Bishop of Massachusetts (The Mystery
of Iniquity and Other Sermons, sermon xvi.).

We might rather say that throughout the whole world, in the East as well as in the West, rationalists
seek definition and believe in the concept, while vitalists seek inspiration and believe in
the person. The former scrutinize the Universe in order that they may wrest its secrets from
it; the latter pray to the Consciousness of the Universe, strive to place themselves in immediate
relationship with the Soul of the World, with God, in order that they may find the guarantee
or substance of what they hope for, which is not to die, and the evidence of what they do not see.

And since a person is a will, and will always has reference to the future, he who believes,
believes in what is to come--that is, in what he hopes for. We do not believe, strictly speaking,
in what is or in what was, except as the guarantee, as the substance, of what will be. For
the Christian, to believe in the resurrection of Christ--that is to say, in tradition and in
the Gospel, which assure him that Christ has risen, both of them personal forces--is to believe
that he himself will one day rise again by the grace of Christ. And even scientific faith--for
such there is--refers to the future and is an act of trust. The man of science believes that
at a certain future date an eclipse of the sun will take place; he believes that the laws which
have governed the world hitherto will continue to govern it.

To believe, I repeat, is to place confidence in someone, and it has reference to a person.
I say that I know that there is an animal called the horse, and that it has such and such characteristics,
because I have seen it; and I say that I believe in the existence of the giraffe or the ornithorhyncus,
and that it possesses such and such qualities, because I believe those who assure me that they
have seen it. And hence the element of uncertainty attached to faith, for it is possible that
a person may be deceived or that he may deceive us.

But, on the other hand, this personal element in belief gives it an effective and loving character,
and above all, in religious faith, a reference to what is hoped for. Perhaps there is nobody
who would sacrifice his life for the sake of maintaining that the three angles of a triangle
are together equal to two right angles, for such a truth does not demand the sacrifice of our
life; but, on the other hand, there are many who have lost their lives for the sake of maintaining
their religious faith. Indeed it is truer to say that martyrs make faith than that faith makes
martyrs. For faith is not the mere adherence of the intellect to an abstract principle; it
is not the recognition of a theoretical truth, a process in which the will merely sets in motion
our faculty of comprehension; faith is an act of the will--it is a movement of the soul towards
a practical truth, towards a person, towards something that makes us not merely comprehend
life, but that makes us live.[45]

Faith makes us live by showing us that life, although it is dependent upon reason, has its
well-spring and source of power elsewhere, in something supernatural and miraculous. Cournot
the mathematician, a man of singularly well-balanced and scientifically equipped mind, has
said that it is this tendency towards the supernatural and miraculous that gives life, and
that when it is lacking, all the speculations of the reason lead to nothing but affliction
of spirit (Traité de l'enchaînement des idées fondamentales dans les sciences et dans l'histoire,
§ 329). And in truth we wish to live.

But, although we have said that faith is a thing of the will, it would perhaps be better to
say that it is will itself--the will not to die, or, rather, that it is some other psychic
force distinct from intelligence, will, and feeling. We should thus have feeling, knowing,
willing, and believing or creating. For neither feeling, nor intelligence, nor will creates;
they operate upon a material already given, upon the material given them by faith. Faith is
the creative power in man. But since it has a more intimate relation with the will than with
any other of his faculties, we conceive it under the form of volition. It should be borne in
mind, however, that wishing to believe--that is to say, wishing to create--is not precisely
the same as believing or creating, although it is its starting-point.

Faith, therefore, if not a creative force, is the fruit of the will, and its function is to
create. Faith, in a certain sense, creates its object. And faith in God consists in creating
God; and since it is God who gives us faith in Himself, it is God who is continually creating
Himself in us. My faith calls upon Thee, Lord, the faith which Thou hast given me, with which
Thou hast inspired me through the Humanity of Thy Son, through the ministry of Thy preacher"
(Confessions, book i., chap. i.). The power of creating God in our own image and likeness,
of personalizing the Universe, simply means that we carry God within us, as the substance of
what we hope for, and that God is continually creating us in His own image and likeness.

And we create God--that is to say, God creates Himself in us--by compassion, by love. To believe
in God is to love Him, and in our love to fear Him; and we begin by loving Him even before
knowing Him, and by loving Him we come at last to see and discover Him in all things.

Those who say that they believe in God and yet neither love nor fear Him, do not in fact believe
in Him but in those who have taught them that God exists, and these in their turn often enough
do not believe in Him either. Those who believe that they believe in God, but without any passion
in their heart, without anguish of mind, without uncertainty, without doubt, without an element
of despair even in their consolation, believe only in the God-Idea, not in God Himself. And
just as belief in God is born of love, so also it may be born of fear, and even of hate, and
of such kind was the belief of Vanni Fucci, the thief, whom Dante depicts insulting God with
obscene gestures in Hell (Inf., xxv., 1-3). For the devils also believe in God, and not a few
atheists.

Is it not perhaps a mode of believing in God, this fury with which those deny and even insult
Him, who, because they cannot bring themselves to believe in Him, wish that He may not exist?
Like those who believe, they, too, wish that God may exist; but being men of a weak and passive
or of an evil disposition, in whom reason is stronger than will, they feel themselves caught
in the grip of reason and haled along in their own despite, and they fall into despair, and
because of their despair they deny, and in their denial they affirm and create the thing that
they deny, and God reveals Himself in them, affirming Himself by their very denial of Him.

But it will be objected to all this that to demonstrate that faith creates its own object is
to demonstrate that this object is an object for faith alone, that outside faith it has no
objective reality; just as, on the other hand, to maintain that faith is necessary because
it affords consolation to the masses of the people, or imposes a wholesome restraint upon them,
is to declare that the object of faith is illusory. What is certain is that for thinking believers
to-day, faith is, before all and above all, wishing that God may exist.

Wishing that God may exist, and acting and feeling as if He did exist. And desiring God's existence
and acting conformably with this desire, is the means whereby we create God--that is, whereby
God creates Himself in us, manifests Himself to us, opens and reveals Himself to us. For God
goes out to meet him who seeks Him with love and by love, and hides Himself from him who searches
for Him with the cold and loveless reason. God wills that the heart should have rest, but not
the head, reversing the order of the physical life in which the head sleeps and rests at times
while the heart wakes and works unceasingly. And thus knowledge without love leads us away
from God; and love, even without knowledge, and perhaps better without it, leads us to God,
and through God to wisdom. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God!

And if you should ask me how I believe in God--that is to say, how God creates Himself in me
and reveals Himself to me--my answer may, perhaps, provoke your smiles or your laughter, or
it may even scandalize you.

I believe in God as I believe in my friends, because I feel the breath of His affection, feel
His invisible and intangible hand, drawing me, leading me, grasping me; because I possess an
inner consciousness of a particular providence and of a universal mind that marks out for me
the course of my own destiny. And the concept of law--it is nothing but a concept after all!--tells
me nothing and teaches me nothing.

Once and again in my life I have seen myself suspended in a trance over the abyss; once and
again I have found myself at the cross-roads, confronted by a choice of ways and aware that
in choosing one I should be renouncing all the others--for there is no turning back upon these
roads of life; and once and again in such unique moments as these I have felt the impulse of
a mighty power, conscious, sovereign, and loving. And then, before the feet of the wayfarer,
opens out the way of the Lord.

It is possible for a man to feel the Universe calling to him and guiding him as one person
guides and calls to another, to hear within him its voice speaking without words and saying:
"Go and preach to all peoples!" How do you know that the man you see before you possesses a
consciousness like you, and that an animal also possesses such a consciousness, more or less
dimly, but not a stone? Because the man acts towards you like a man, like a being made in your
likeness, and because the stone does not act towards you at all, but suffers you to act upon
it. And in the same way I believe that the Universe possesses a certain consciousness like
myself, because its action towards me is a human action, and I feel that it is a personality
that environs me.

Here is a formless mass; it appears to be a kind of animal; it is impossible to distinguish
its members; I only see two eyes, eyes which gaze at me with a human gaze, the gaze of a fellow-being,
a gaze which asks for pity; and I hear it breathing. I conclude that in this formless mass
there is a consciousness. In just such a way and none other, the starry-eyed heavens gaze down
upon the believer, with a superhuman, a divine, gaze, a gaze that asks for supreme pity and
supreme love, and in the serenity of the night he hears the breathing of God, and God touches
him in his heart of hearts and reveals Himself to him. It is the Universe, living, suffering,
loving, and asking for love.

From loving little trifling material things, which lightly come and lightly go, having no deep
root in our affections, we come to love the more lasting things, the things which our hands
cannot grasp; from loving goods we come to love the Good; from loving beautiful things we come
to love Beauty; from loving the true we come to love the Truth; from loving pleasures we come
to love Happiness; and, last of all, we come to love Love. We emerge from ourselves in order
to penetrate further into our supreme I; individual consciousness emerges from us in order
to submerge itself in the total Consciousness of which we form a part, but without being dissolved
in it. And God is simply the Love that springs from universal suffering and becomes consciousness.

But this, it will be said, is merely to revolve in an iron ring, for such a God is not objective.
And at this point it may not be out of place to give reason its due and to examine exactly
what is meant by a thing existing, being objective.

What is it, in effect, to exist? and when do we say that a thing exists? A thing exists when
it is placed outside us, and in such a way that it shall have preceded our perception of it
and be capable of continuing to subsist outside us after we have disappeared. But have I any
certainty that anything has preceded me or that anything must survive me? Can my consciousness
know that there is anything outside it? Everything that I know or can know is within my consciousness.
We will not entangle ourselves, therefore, in the insoluble problem of an objectivity outside
our perceptions. Things exist in so far as they act. To exist is to act.

But now it will be said that it is not God, but the idea of God, that acts in us. To which
we shall reply that it is sometimes God acting by His idea, but still very often it is rather
God acting in us by Himself. And the retort will be a demand for proofs of the objective truth
of the existence of God, since we ask for signs. And we shall have to answer with Pilate: What
is truth?

And having asked this question, Pilate turned away without waiting for an answer and proceeded
to wash his hands in order that he might exculpate himself for having allowed Christ to be
condemned to death. And there are many who ask this question, What is truth? but without any
intention of waiting for the answer, and solely in order that they may turn away and wash their
hands of the crime of having helped to kill and eject God from their own consciousness or from
the consciousness of others.

What is truth? There are two kinds of truth--the logical or objective, the opposite of which
is error, and the moral or subjective, the opposite of which is falsehood. And in a previous
essay I have endeavoured to show that error is the fruit of falsehood.[46]

Moral truth, the road that leads to intellectual truth, which also is moral, inculcates the
study of science, which is over and above all a school of sincerity and humility. Science teaches
us, in effect, to submit our reason to the truth and to know and judge of things as they are--that
is to say, as they themselves choose to be and not as we would have them be. In a religiously
scientific investigation, it is the data of reality themselves, it is the perceptions which
we receive from the outside world, that formulate themselves in our mind as laws--it is not
we ourselves who thus formulate them. It is the numbers themselves which in our mind create
mathematics. Science is the most intimate school of resignation and humility, for it teaches
us to bow before the seemingly most insignificant of facts. And it is the gateway of religion;
but within the temple itself its function ceases.

And just as there is logical truth, opposed to error, and moral truth, opposed to falsehood,
so there is also esthetic truth or verisimilitude, which is opposed to extravagance, and religious
truth or hope, which is opposed to the inquietude of absolute despair. For esthetic verisimilitude,
the expression of which is sensible, differs from logical truth, the demonstration of which
is rational; and religious truth, the truth of faith, the substance of things hoped for, is
not equivalent to moral truth, but superimposes itself upon it. He who affirms a faith built
upon a basis of uncertainty does not and cannot lie.

And not only do we not believe with reason, nor yet above reason nor below reason, but we believe
against reason. Religious faith, it must be repeated yet again, is not only irrational, it
is contra-rational. Kierkegaard says: "Poetry is illusion before knowledge; religion illusion
after knowledge. Between poetry and religion the worldly wisdom of living plays its comedy.
Every individual who does not live either poetically or religiously is a fool" (Afsluttende
uvidenskabelig Efterskrift, chap. iv., sect. 2a, § 2). The same writer tells us that Christianity
is a desperate sortie (salida). Even so, but it is only by the very desperateness of this sortie
that we can win through to hope, to that hope whose vitalizing illusion is of more force than
all rational knowledge, and which assures us that there is always something that cannot be
reduced to reason. And of reason the same may be said as was said of Christ: that he who is
not with it is against it. That which is not rational is contra-rational; and such is hope.

By this circuitous route we always arrive at hope in the end.

To the mystery of love, which is the mystery of suffering, belongs a mysterious form, and this
form is time. We join yesterday to to-morrow with links of longing, and the now is, strictly,
nothing but the endeavour of the before to make itself the after; the present is simply the
determination of the past to become the future. The now is a point which, if not sharply articulated,
vanishes; and, nevertheless, in this point is all eternity, the substance of time.

Everything that has been can be only as it was, and everything that is can be only as it is;
the possible is always relegated to the future, the sole domain of liberty, wherein imagination,
the creative and liberating energy, the incarnation of faith, has space to roam at large.

Love ever looks and tends to the future, for its work is the work of our perpetuation; the
property of love is to hope, and only upon hopes does it nourish itself. And thus when love
sees the fruition of its desire it becomes sad, for it then discovers that what it desired
was not its true end, and that God gave it this desire merely as a lure to spur it to action;
it discovers that its end is further on, and it sets out again upon its toilsome pilgrimage
through life, revolving through a constant cycle of illusions and disillusions. And continually
it transforms its frustrated hopes into memories, and from these memories it draws fresh hopes.
From the subterranean ore of memory we extract the jewelled visions of our future; imagination
shapes our remembrances into hopes. And humanity is like a young girl full of longings, hungering
for life and thirsting for love, who weaves her days with dreams, and hopes, hopes ever, hopes
without ceasing, for the eternal and predestined lover, for him who, because he was destined
for her from the beginning, from before the dawn of her remotest memory, from before her cradle-days,
shall live with her and for her into the illimitable future, beyond the stretch of her furthest
hopes, beyond the grave itself. And for this poor lovelorn humanity, as for the girl ever awaiting
her lover, there is no kinder wish than that when the winter of life shall come it may find
the sweet dreams of its spring changed into memories sweeter still, and memories that shall
burgeon into new hopes. In the days when our summer is over, what a flow of calm felicity,
of resignation to destiny, must come from remembering hopes which have never been realized
and which, because they have never been realized, preserve their pristine purity.

Love hopes, hopes ever and never wearies of hoping; and love of God, our faith in God, is,
above all, hope in Him. For God dies not, and he who hopes in God shall live for ever. And
our fundamental hope, the root and stem of all our hopes, is the hope of eternal life.

And if faith is the substance of hope, hope in its turn is the form of faith. Until it gives
us hope, our faith is a formless faith, vague, chaotic, potential; it is but the possibility
of believing, the longing to believe. But we must needs believe in something, and we believe
in what we hope for, we believe in hope. We remember the past, we know the present, we only
believe in the future. To believe what we have not seen is to believe what we shall see. Faith,
then, I repeat once again, is faith in hope; we believe what we hope for.

Love makes us believe in God, in whom we hope and from whom we hope to receive life to come;
love makes us believe in that which the dream of hope creates for us.

Faith is our longing for the eternal, for God; and hope is God's longing, the longing of the
eternal, of the divine in us, which advances to meet our faith and uplifts us. Man aspires
to God by faith and cries to Him: "I believe--give me, Lord, wherein to believe!" And God,
the divinity in man, sends him hope in another life in order that he may believe in it. Hope
is the reward of faith. Only he who believes truly hopes; and only he who truly hopes believes.
We only believe what we hope, and we only hope what we believe.

It was hope that called God by the name of Father; and this name, so comforting yet so mysterious,
is still bestowed upon Him by hope. The father gave us life and gives bread wherewith to sustain
it, and we ask the father to preserve our life for us. And if Christ was he who, with the fullest
heart and purest mouth, named with the name of Father his Father and ours, if the noblest feeling
of Christianity is the feeling of the Fatherhood of God, it is because in Christ the human
race sublimated its hunger for eternity.

It may perhaps be said that this longing of faith, that this hope, is more than anything else
an esthetic feeling. Possibly the esthetic feeling enters into it, but without completely satisfying
it.

We seek in art an image of eternalization. If for a brief moment our spirit finds peace and
rest and assuagement in the contemplation of the beautiful, even though it finds therein no
real cure for its distress, it is because the beautiful is the revelation of the eternal, of
the divine in things, and beauty but the perpetuation of momentaneity. Just as truth is the
goal of rational knowledge, so beauty is the goal of hope, which is perhaps in its essence
irrational.

Nothing is lost, nothing wholly passes away, for in some way or another everything is perpetuated;
and everything, after passing through time, returns to eternity. The temporal world has its
roots in eternity, and in eternity yesterday is united with to-day and to-morrow. The scenes
of life pass before us as in a cinematograph show, but on the further side of time the film
is one and indivisible.

Physicists affirm that not a single particle of matter nor a single tremor of energy is lost,
but that each is transformed and transmitted and persists. And can it be that any form, however
fugitive it may be, is lost? We must needs believe--believe and hope!--that it is not, but
that somewhere it remains archived and perpetuated, and that there is some mirror of eternity
in which, without losing themselves in one another, all the images that pass through time are
received. Every impression that reaches me remains stored up in my brain even though it may
be so deep or so weak that it is buried in the depths of my subconsciousness; but from these
depths it animates my life; and if the whole of my spirit, the total content of my soul, were
to awake to full consciousness, all these dimly perceived and forgotten fugitive impressions
would come to life again, including even those which I had never been aware of. I carry within
me everything that has passed before me, and I perpetuate it with myself, and it may be that
it all goes into my germs, and that all my ancestors live undiminished in me and will continue
so to live, united with me, in my descendants. And perhaps I, the whole I, with all this universe
of mine, enter into each one of my actions, or, at all events, that which is essential in me
enters into them--that which makes me myself, my individual essence.

And how is this individual essence in each several thing--that which makes it itself and not
another--revealed to us save as beauty? What is the beauty of anything but its eternal essence,
that which unites its past with its future, that element of it that rests and abides in the
womb of eternity? or, rather, what is it but the revelation of its divinity?

And this beauty, which is the root of eternity, is revealed to us by love; it is the supreme
revelation of the love of God and the token of our ultimate victory over time. It is love that
reveals to us the eternal in us and in our neighbours.

Is it the beautiful, the eternal, in things, that awakens and kindles our love for them, or
is it our love for things that reveals to us the beautiful, the eternal, in them? Is not beauty
perhaps a creation of love, in the same way and in the same sense that the sensible world is
a creation of the instinct of preservation and the supersensible world of that of perpetuation?
Is not beauty, and together with beauty eternity, a creation of love? The man of passing appearances
perishes and passes away with them; the man of reality remains and grows. (ver. 17). Our suffering
causes us anguish, and this anguish, bursting because of its own fullness, seems to us consolation.
(ver. 18).

This suffering gives hope, which is the beautiful in life, the supreme beauty, or the supreme
consolation. And since love is full of suffering, since love is compassion and pity, beauty
springs from compassion and is simply the temporal consolation that compassion seeks. A tragic
consolation! And the supreme beauty is that of tragedy. The consciousness that everything passes
away, that we ourselves pass away, and that everything that is ours and everything that environs
us passes away, fills us with anguish, and this anguish itself reveals to us the consolation
of that which does not pass away, of the eternal, of the beautiful.

And this beauty thus revealed, this perpetuation of momentaneity, only realizes itself practically,
only lives through the work of charity. Hope in action is charity, and beauty in action is
goodness.

       *       *       *       *       *

Charity, which eternalizes everything it loves, and in giving us the goodness of it brings
to light its hidden beauty, has its root in the love of God, or, if you like, in charity towards
God, in pity for God. Love, pity, personalizes everything, we have said; in discovering the
suffering in everything and in personalizing everything, it personalizes the Universe itself
as well--for the Universe also suffers--and it discovers God to us. For God is revealed to
us because He suffers and because we suffer; because He suffers He demands our love, and because
we suffer He gives us His love, and He covers our anguish with the eternal and infinite anguish.

This was the scandal of Christianity among Jews and Greeks, among Pharisees and Stoics, and
this, which was its scandal of old, the scandal of the Cross, is still its scandal to-day,
and will continue to be so, even among Christians themselves--the scandal of a God who becomes
man in order that He may suffer and die and rise again, because He has suffered and died, the
scandal of a God subject to suffering and death. And this truth that God suffers--a truth that
appals the mind of man--is the revelation of the very heart of the Universe and of its mystery,
the revelation that God revealed to us when He sent His Son in order that he might redeem us
by suffering and dying. It was the revelation of the divine in suffering, for only that which
suffers is divine.

And men made a god of this Christ who suffered, and through him they discovered the eternal
essence of a living, human God--that is, of a God who suffers--it is only the dead, the inhuman,
that does not suffer--a God who loves and thirsts for love, for pity, a God who is a person.
Whosoever knows not the Son will never know the Father, and the Father is only known through
the Son; whosoever knows not the Son of Man--he who suffers bloody anguish and the pangs of
a breaking heart, whose soul is heavy within him even unto death, who suffers the pain that
kills and brings to life again--will never know the Father, and can know nothing of the suffering
God.

He who does not suffer, and who does not suffer because he does not live, is that logical and
frozen ens realissimum, the primum movens, that impassive entity, which because of its impassivity
is nothing but a pure idea. The category does not suffer, but neither does it live or exist
as a person. And how is the world to derive its origin and life from an impassive idea? Such
a world would be but the idea of the world. But the world suffers, and suffering is the sense
of the flesh of reality; it is the spirit's sense of its mass and substance; it is the self's
sense of its own tangibility; it is immediate reality.

Suffering is the substance of life and the root of personality, for it is only suffering that
makes us persons. And suffering is universal, suffering is that which unites all us living
beings together; it is the universal or divine blood that flows through us all. That which
we call will, what is it but suffering?

And suffering has its degrees, according to the depth of its penetration, from the suffering
that floats upon the sea of appearances to the eternal anguish, the source of the tragic sense
of life, which seeks a habitation in the depths of the eternal and there awakens consolation;
from the physical suffering that contorts our bodies to the religious anguish that flings us
upon the bosom of God, there to be watered by the divine tears.

Anguish is something far deeper, more intimate, and more spiritual than suffering. We are wont
to feel the touch of anguish even in the midst of that which we call happiness, and even because
of this happiness itself, to which we cannot resign ourselves and before which we tremble.
The happy who resign themselves to their apparent happiness, to a transitory happiness, seem
to be as men without substance, or, at any rate, men who have not discovered this substance
in themselves, who have not touched it. Such men are usually incapable of loving or of being
loved, and they go through life without really knowing either pain or bliss.

There is no true love save in suffering, and in this world we have to choose either love, which
is suffering, or happiness. And love leads us to no other happiness than that of love itself
and its tragic consolation of uncertain hope. The moment love becomes happy and satisfied,
it no longer desires and it is no longer love. The satisfied, the happy, do not love; they
fall asleep in habit, near neighbour to annihilation. To fall into a habit is to begin to cease
to be. Man is the more man--that is, the more divine--the greater his capacity for suffering,
or, rather, for anguish.

At our coming into the world it is given to us to choose between love and happiness, and we
wish--poor fools!--for both: the happiness of loving and the love of happiness. But we ought
to ask for the gift of love and not of happiness, and to be preserved from dozing away into
habit, lest we should fall into a fast sleep, a sleep without waking, and so lose our consciousness
beyond power of recovery. We ought to ask God to make us conscious of ourselves in ourselves,
in our suffering.

What is Fate, what is Fatality, but the brotherhood of love and suffering? What is it but that
terrible mystery in virtue of which love dies as soon as it touches the happiness towards which
it reaches out, and true happiness dies with it? Love and suffering mutually engender one another,
and love is charity and compassion, and the love that is not charitable and compassionate is
not love. Love, in a word, is resigned despair.

That which the mathematicians call the problem of maxima and minima, which is also called the
law of economy, is the formula for all existential--that is, passional--activity. In material
mechanics and in social mechanics, in industry and in political economy, every problem resolves
itself into an attempt to obtain the greatest possible resulting utility with the least possible
effort, the greatest income with the least expenditure, the most pleasure with the least pain.
And the terrible and tragic formula of the inner, spiritual life is either to obtain the most
happiness with the least love, or the most love with the least happiness. And it is necessary
to choose between the one and the other, and to know that he who approaches the infinite of
love, the love that is infinite, approaches the zero of happiness, the supreme anguish. And
in reaching this zero he is beyond the reach of the misery that kills. "Be not, and thou shalt
be mightier than aught that is," said Brother Juan de los Angeles in one of his Diálogos de
la conquista del reino de Dios (Dial. iii. 8).

And there is something still more anguishing than suffering. A man about to receive a much-dreaded
blow expects to have to suffer so severely that he may even succumb to the suffering, and when
the blow falls he feels scarcely any pain; but afterwards, when he has come to himself and
is conscious of his insensibility, he is seized with terror, a tragic terror, the most terrible
of all, and choking with anguish he cries out: "Can it be that I no longer exist?" Which would
you find most appalling--to feel such a pain as would deprive you of your senses on being pierced
through with a white-hot iron, or to see yourself thus pierced through without feeling any
pain? Have you never felt the horrible terror of feeling yourself incapable of suffering and
of tears? Suffering tells us that we exist; suffering tells us that those whom we love exist;
suffering tells us that the world in which we live exists; and suffering tells us that God
exists and suffers; but it is the suffering of anguish, the anguish of surviving and being
eternal. Anguish discovers God to us and makes us love Him.

To believe in God is to love Him, and to love Him is to feel Him suffering, to pity Him.

It may perhaps appear blasphemous to say that God suffers, for suffering implies limitation.
Nevertheless, God, the Consciousness of the Universe, is limited by the brute matter in which
He lives, by the unconscious, from which He seeks to liberate Himself and to liberate us. And
we, in our turn, must seek to liberate Him. God suffers in each and all of us, in each and
all of the consciousnesses imprisoned in transitory matter, and we all suffer in Him. Religious
anguish is but the divine suffering, the feeling that God suffers in me and that I suffer in Him.

The universal suffering is the anguish of all in seeking to be all else but without power to
achieve it, the anguish of each in being he that he is, being at the same time all that he
is not, and being so for ever. The essence of a being is not only its endeavour to persist
for ever, as Spinoza taught us, but also its endeavour to universalize itself; it is the hunger
and thirst for eternity and infinity. Every created being tends not only to preserve itself
in itself, but to perpetuate itself, and, moreover, to invade all other beings, to be others
without ceasing to be itself, to extend its limits to the infinite, but without breaking them.
It does not wish to throw down its walls and leave everything laid flat, common and undefended,
confounding and losing its own individuality, but it wishes to carry its walls to the extreme
limits of creation and to embrace everything within them. It seeks the maximum of individuality
with the maximum also of personality; it aspires to the identification of the Universe with
itself; it aspires to God.

And this vast I, within which each individual I seeks to put the Universe--what is it but God?
And because I aspire to God, I love Him; and this aspiration of mine towards God is my love
for Him, and just as I suffer in being He, He also suffers in being I, and in being each one of us.

I am well aware that in spite of my warning that I am attempting here to give a logical form
to a system of a-logical feelings, I shall be scandalizing not a few of my readers in speaking
of a God who suffers, and in applying to God Himself, as God, the passion of Christ. The God
of so-called rational theology excludes in effect all suffering. And the reader will no doubt
think that this idea of suffering can have only a metaphorical value when applied to God, similar
to that which is supposed to attach to those passages in the Old Testament which describe the
human passions of the God of Israel. For anger, wrath, and vengeance are impossible without
suffering. And as for saying that God suffers through being bound by matter, I shall be told
that, in the words of Plotinus (Second Ennead, ix., 7), the Universal Soul cannot be bound
by the very thing--namely, bodies or matter--which is bound by It.

Herein is involved the whole problem of the origin of evil, the evil of sin no less than the
evil of pain, for if God does not suffer, He causes suffering; and if His life, since God lives,
is not a process of realizing in Himself a total consciousness which is continually becoming
fuller--that is to say, which is continually becoming more and more God--it is a process of
drawing all things towards Himself, of imparting Himself to all, of constraining the consciousness
of each part to enter into the consciousness of the All, which is He Himself, until at last
He comes to be all in all--panta en paot, according to the expression of St. Paul, the first
Christian mystic. We will discuss this more fully, however, in the next chapter on the apocatastasis
or beatific union.

For the present let it suffice to say that there is a vast current of suffering urging living
beings towards one another, constraining them to love one another and to seek one another,
and to endeavour to complete one another, and to be each himself and others at the same time.
In God everything lives, and in His suffering everything suffers, and in loving God we love
His creatures in Him, just as in loving and pitying His creatures we love and pity God in them.
No single soul can be free so long as there is anything enslaved in God's world, neither can
God Himself, who lives in the soul of each one of us, be free so long as our soul is not free.

My most immediate sensation is the sense and love of my own misery, my anguish, the compassion
I feel for myself, the love I bear for myself. And when this compassion is vital and superabundant,
it overflows from me upon others, and from the excess of my own compassion I come to have compassion
for my neighbours. My own misery is so great that the compassion for myself which it awakens
within me soon overflows and reveals to me the universal misery.

And what is charity but the overflow of pity? What is it but reflected pity that overflows
and pours itself out in a flood of pity for the woes of others and in the exercise of charity?

When the overplus of our pity leads us to the consciousness of God within us, it fills us with
so great anguish for the misery shed abroad in all things, that we have to pour our pity abroad,
and this we do in the form of charity. And in this pouring abroad of our pity we experience
relief and the painful sweetness of goodness. This is what Teresa de Jesús, the mystical doctor,
called "sweet-tasting suffering" (dolor sabroso), and she knew also the lore of suffering loves.
It is as when one looks upon some thing of beauty and feels the necessity of making others
sharers in it. For the creative impulse, in which charity consists, is the work of suffering love.

We feel, in effect, a satisfaction in doing good when good superabounds within us, when we
are swollen with pity; and we are swollen with pity when God, filling our soul, gives us the
suffering sensation of universal life, of the universal longing for eternal divinization. For
we are not merely placed side by side with others in the world, having no common root with
them, neither is their lot indifferent to us, but their pain hurts us, their anguish fills
us with anguish, and we feel our community of origin and of suffering even without knowing
it. Suffering, and pity which is born of suffering, are what reveal to us the brotherhood of
every existing thing that possesses life and more or less of consciousness. "Brother Wolf"
St. Francis of Assisi called the poor wolf that feels a painful hunger for the sheep, and feels,
too, perhaps, the pain of having to devour them; and this brotherhood reveals to us the Fatherhood
of God, reveals to us that God is a Father and that He exists. And as a Father He shelters
our common misery.

Charity, then, is the impulse to liberate myself and all my fellows from suffering, and to
liberate God, who embraces us all.

Suffering is a spiritual thing. It is the most immediate revelation of consciousness, and it
may be that our body was given us simply in order that suffering might be enabled to manifest
itself. A man who had never known suffering, either in greater or less degree, would scarcely
possess consciousness of himself. The child first cries at birth when the air, entering into
his lungs and limiting him, seems to say to him: You have to breathe me in order that you may live!

We must needs believe with faith, whatever counsels reason may give us, that the material or
sensible world which the senses create for us exists solely in order to embody and sustain
that other spiritual or imaginable world which the imagination creates for us. Consciousness
tends to be ever more and more consciousness, to intensify its consciousness, to acquire full
consciousness of its complete self, of the whole of its content. We must needs believe with
faith, whatever counsels reason may give us, that in the depths of our own bodies, in animals,
in plants, in rocks, in everything that lives, in all the Universe, there is a spirit that
strives to know itself, to acquire consciousness of itself, to be itself--for to be oneself
is to know oneself--to be pure spirit; and since it can only achieve this by means of the body,
by means of matter, it creates and makes use of matter at the same time that it remains the
prisoner of it. The face can only see itself when portrayed in the mirror, but in order to
see itself it must remain the prisoner of the mirror in which it sees itself, and the image
which it sees therein is as the mirror distorts it; and if the mirror breaks, the image is
broken; and if the mirror is blurred, the image is blurred.

Spirit finds itself limited by the matter in which it has to live and acquire consciousness
of itself, just as thought is limited by the word in which as a social medium it is incarnated.
Without matter there is no spirit, but matter makes spirit suffer by limiting it. And suffering
is simply the obstacle which matter opposes to spirit; it is the clash of the conscious with
the unconscious.

Suffering is, in effect, the barrier which unconsciousness, matter, sets up against consciousness,
spirit; it is the resistance to will, the limit which the visible universe imposes upon God;
it is the wall that consciousness runs up against when it seeks to extend itself at the expense
of unconsciousness; it is the resistance which unconsciousness opposes to its penetration by
consciousness.

Although in deference to authority we may believe, we do not in fact know, that we possess
heart, stomach, or lungs so long as they do not cause us discomfort, suffering, or anguish.
Physical suffering, or even discomfort, is what reveals to us our own internal core. And the
same is true of spiritual suffering and anguish, for we do not take account of the fact that
we possess a soul until it hurts us.

Anguish is that which makes consciousness return upon itself. He who knows no anguish knows
what he does and what he thinks, but he does not truly know that he does it and that he thinks
it. He thinks, but he does not think that he thinks, and his thoughts are as if they were not
his. Neither does he properly belong to himself. For it is only anguish, it is only the passionate
longing never to die, that makes a human spirit master of itself.

Pain, which is a kind of dissolution, makes us discover our internal core; and in the supreme
dissolution, which is death, we shall, at last, through the pain of annihilation, arrive at
the core of our temporal core--at God, whom in our spiritual anguish we breathe and learn to love.

Even so must we believe with faith, whatever counsels reason may give us.

The origin of evil, as many discovered of old, is nothing other than what is called by another
name the inertia of matter, and, as applied to the things of the spirit, sloth. And not without
truth has it been said that sloth is the mother of all vices, not forgetting that the supreme
sloth is that of not longing madly for immortality.

Consciousness, the craving for more, more, always more, hunger of eternity and thirst of infinity,
appetite for God--these are never satisfied. Each consciousness seeks to be itself and to be
all other consciousnesses without ceasing to be itself: it seeks to be God. And matter, unconsciousness,
tends to be less and less, tends to be nothing, its thirst being a thirst for repose. Spirit
says: I wish to be! and matter answers: I wish not to be!

And in the order of human life, the individual would tend, under the sole instigation of the
instinct of preservation, the creator of the material world, to destruction, to annihilation,
if it were not for society, which, in implanting in him the instinct of perpetuation, the creator
of the spiritual world, lifts and impels him towards the All, towards immortalization. And
everything that man does as a mere individual, opposed to society, for the sake of his own
preservation, and at the expense of society, if need be, is bad; and everything that he does
as a social person, for the sake of the society in which he himself is included, for the sake
of its perpetuation and of the perpetuation of himself in it, is good. And many of those who
seem to be the greatest egoists, trampling everything under their feet in their zeal to bring
their work to a successful issue, are in reality men whose souls are aflame and overflowing
with charity, for they subject and subordinate their petty personal I to the social I that
has a mission to accomplish.

He who would tie the working of love, of spiritualization, of liberation, to transitory and
individual forms, crucifies God in matter; he crucifies God who makes the ideal subservient
to his own temporal interests or worldly glory. And such a one is a deicide.

The work of charity, of the love of God, is to endeavour to liberate God from brute matter,
to endeavour to give consciousness to everything, to spiritualize or universalize everything;
it is to dream that the very rocks may find a voice and work in accordance with the spirit
of this dream; it is to dream that everything that exists may become conscious, that the Word
may become life.

We have but to look at the eucharistic symbol to see an instance of it. The Word has been imprisoned
in a piece of material bread, and it has been imprisoned therein to the end that we may eat
it, and in eating it make it our own, part and parcel of our body in which the spirit dwells,
and that it may beat in our heart and think in our brain and be consciousness. It has been
imprisoned in this bread in order that, after being buried in our body, it may come to life
again in our spirit.

And we must spiritualize everything. And this we shall accomplish by giving our spirit, which
grows the more the more it is distributed, to all men and to all things. And we give our spirit
when we invade other spirits and make ourselves the master of them.

All this is to be believed with faith, whatever counsels reason may give us.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now we are about to see what practical consequences all these more or less fantastical
doctrines may have in regard to logic, to esthetics, and, above all, to ethics--their religious
concretion, in a word. And perhaps then they will gain more justification in the eyes of the
reader who, in spite of my warnings, has hitherto been looking for the scientific or even philosophic
development of an irrational system.

I think it may not be superfluous to recall to the reader once again what I said at the conclusion
of the sixth chapter, that entitled "In the Depths of the Abyss"; but we now approach the practical
or pragmatical part of this treatise. First, however, we must see how the religious sense may
become concrete in the hopeful vision of another life.

[45] Cf. St. Thomas Aquinas, Summa, secunda secundæ, quæstio iv., art. 2.

[46] "Qué es Verdad?" ("What is truth?"), published in La España Moderna, March, 1906, vol.
207 (reprinted in the edition of collected Ensayos, vol. vi., Madrid, 1918).

X

RELIGION, THE MYTHOLOGY OF THE BEYOND AND THE APOCATASTASIS

Kai gar isôs kai malista prepei mellonta echeise apodêmein diaskopein te kai muthologein peri
tês apodêmias tês echei, poian tina autên oiometha einai.--PLATO: Phædo.

Religion is founded upon faith, hope, and charity, which in their turn are founded upon the
feeling of divinity and of God. Of faith in God is born our faith in men, of hope in God hope
in men, and of charity or piety towards God--for as Cicero said,[47] est enim pietas iustitia
adversum deos--charity towards men. In God is resumed not only Humanity, but the whole Universe,
and the Universe spiritualized and penetrated with consciousness, for as the Christian Faith
teaches, God shall at last be all in all. St. Teresa said, and Miguel de Molinos repeated with
a harsher and more despairing inflection, that the soul must realize that nothing exists but
itself and God.

And this relation with God, this more or less intimate union with Him, is what we call religion.

What is religion? In what does it differ from the religious sense and how are the two related?
Every man's definition of religion is based upon his own inward experience of it rather than
upon his observation of it in others, nor indeed is it possible to define it without in some
way or another experiencing it. Tacitus said (Hist. v. 4), speaking of the Jews, that they
regarded as profane everything that the Romans held to be sacred, and that what was sacred
to them was to the Romans impure: profana illic omnia quæ apud nos sacra, rursum conversa apud
illos quæ nobis incesta. Therefore he, the Roman, describes the Jews as a people dominated
by superstition and hostile to religion, gens superstitioni obnoxia, religionibus adversa,
while as regards Christianity, with which he was very imperfectly acquainted, scarcely distinguishing
it from Judaism, he deemed it to be a pernicious superstition, existialis superstitio, inspired
by a hatred of mankind, odium generis humani (Ab excessu Aug., xv., 44). And there have been
many others who have shared his opinion. But where does religion end and superstition begin,
or perhaps rather we should say at what point does superstition merge into religion? What is
the criterion by means of which we discriminate between them?

It would be of little profit to recapitulate here, even summarily, the principal definitions,
each bearing the impress of the personal feeling of its definer, which have been given of religion.
Religion is better described than defined and better felt than described. But if there is any
one definition that latterly has obtained acceptance, it is that of Schleiermacher, to the
effect that religion consists in the simple feeling of a relationship of dependence upon something
above us and a desire to establish relations with this mysterious power. Nor is there much
amiss with the statement of W. Hermann[48] that the religious longing of man is a desire for
truth concerning his human existence. And to cut short these extraneous citations, I will end
with one from the judicious and perspicacious Cournot: "Religious manifestations are the necessary
consequence of man's predisposition to believe in the existence of an invisible, supernatural
and miraculous world, a predisposition which it has been possible to consider sometimes as
a reminiscence of an anterior state, sometimes as an intimation of a future destiny" And it
is this problem of human destiny, of eternal life, or of the human finality of the Universe
or of God, that we have now reached. All the highways of religion lead up to this, for it is
the very essence of all religion.

Beginning with the savage's personalization of the whole Universe in his fetich, religion has
its roots in the vital necessity of giving human finality to the Universe, to God, and this
necessity obliges it, therefore, to attribute to the Universe, to God, consciousness of self
and of purpose. And it may be said that religion is simply union with God, each one interpreting
God according to his own sense of Him. God gives transcendent meaning and finality to life;
but He gives it relatively to each one of us who believe in Him. And thus God is for man as
much as man is for God, for God in becoming man, in becoming human, has given Himself to man
because of His love of him.

And this religious longing for union with God is a longing for a union that cannot be consummated
in science or in art, but only in life. "He who possesses science and art, has religion; he
who possesses neither science nor art, let him get religion," said Goethe in one of his frequent
accesses of paganism. And yet in spite of what he said, he himself, Goethe...?

And to wish that we may be united with God is not to wish that we may be lost and submerged
in Him, for this loss and submersion of self ends at last in the complete dissolution of self
in the dreamless sleep of Nirvana; it is to wish to possess Him rather than to be possessed
by Him. When his disciples, amazed at his saying that it was impossible for a rich man to enter
into the kingdom of heaven, asked Jesus who then could be saved, the Master replied that with
men it was impossible but not with God; and then said Peter, "Behold, we have forsaken all
and followed thee; what shall we have therefore?" 23-26).

It was a Spaniard, and very emphatically a Spaniard, Miguel de Molinos, who said in his Guía
Espiritual[49] that "he who would attain to the mystical science must abandon and be detached
from five things: first, from creatures; second, from temporal things; third, from the very
gifts of the Holy Spirit; fourth, from himself; and fifth, he must be detached even from God."
And he adds that "this last is the completest of all, because that soul only that knows how
to be so detached is that which attains to being lost in God, and only the soul that attains
to being so lost succeeds in finding itself." Emphatically a true Spaniard, Molinos, and truly
Spanish is this paradoxical expression of quietism or rather of nihilism--for he himself elsewhere
speaks of annihilation--and not less Spanish, nay, perhaps even more Spanish, were the Jesuits
who attacked him, upholding the prerogatives of the All against the claims of Nothingness.
For religion is not the longing for self-annihilation, but for self-completion, it is the longing
not for death but for life. "The eternal religion of the inward essence of man ... the individual
dream of the heart, is the worship of his own being, the adoration of life," as the tortured
soul of Flaubert was intimately aware (Par les champs et par les grèves, vii.).

When at the beginning of the so-called modern age, at the Renaissance, the pagan sense of religion
came to life again, it took concrete form in the knightly ideal with its codes of love and
honour. But it was a paganism Christianized, baptized. "Woman--la donna--was the divinity enshrined
within those savage breasts. Whosoever will investigate the memorials of primitive times will
find this ideal of woman in its full force and purity; the Universe is woman. And so it was
in Germany, in France, in Provence, in Spain, in Italy, at the beginning of the modern age.
History was cast in this mould; Trojans and Romans were conceived as knights-errant, and so
too were Arabs, Saracens, Turks, the Sultan and Saladin.... In this universal fraternity mingle
angels, saints, miracles and paradise, strangely blended with the fantasy and voluptuousness
of the Oriental world, and all baptized in the name of Chivalry." Thus, in his Storia della
Letteratura italiana, ii., writes Francesco de Sanctis, and in an earlier passage he informs
us that for that breed of men "in paradise itself the lover's delight was to look upon his
lady--Madonna--and that he had no desire to go thither if he might not go in his lady's company."
What, in fact, was Chivalry--which Cervantes, intending to kill it, afterwards purified and
Christianized in Don Quixote--but a real though distorted religion, a hybrid between paganism
and Christianity, whose gospel perhaps was the legend of Tristan and Iseult? And did not even
the Christianity of the mystics--those knights-errant of the spirit--possibly reach its culminating-point
in the worship of the divine woman, the Virgin Mary? What else was the Mariolatry of a St.
Bonaventura, the troubadour of Mary? And this sentiment found its inspiration in love of the
fountain of life, of that which saves us from death.

But as the Renaissance advanced men turned from the religion of woman to the religion of science;
desire, the foundation of which was curiosity, ended in curiosity, in eagerness to taste of
the fruit of the tree of good and evil. Europe flocked to the University of Bologna in search
of learning. Chivalry was succeeded by Platonism. Men sought to discover the mystery of the
world and of life. But it was really in order to save life, which they had also sought to save
in the worship of woman. Human consciousness sought to penetrate the Universal Consciousness,
but its real object, whether it was aware of it or not, was to save itself.

For the truth is that we feel and imagine the Universal Consciousness--and in this feeling
and imagination religious experience consists--simply in order that thereby we may save our
own individual consciousnesses. And how?

Once again I must repeat that the longing for the immortality of the soul, for the permanence,
in some form or another, of our personal and individual consciousness, is as much of the essence
of religion as is the longing that there may be a God. The one does not exist apart from the
other, the reason being that fundamentally they are one and the same thing. But as soon as
we attempt to give a concrete and rational form to this longing for immortality and permanence,
to define it to ourselves, we encounter even more difficulties than we encountered in our attempt
to rationalize God.

The universal consent of mankind has again been invoked as a means of justifying this immortal
longing for immortality to our own feeble reason. Permanere animos arbitratur consensu nationum
omnium, said Cicero, echoing the opinion of the ancients (Tuscul. Quæst., xvi., 36). But this
same recorder of his own feelings confessed that, although when he read the arguments in favour
of the immortality of the soul in the Phædo of Plato he was compelled to assent to them, as
soon as he put the book aside and began to revolve the problem in his own mind, all his previous
assent melted away, assentio omnis illa illabitur (cap. xi., 25). And what happened to Cicero
happens to us all, and it happened likewise to Swedenborg, the most daring visionary of the
other world. Swedenborg admitted that he who discourses of life after death, putting aside
all erudite notions concerning the soul and its mode of union with the body, believes that
after death he shall live in a glorious joy and vision, as a man among angels; but when he
begins to reflect upon the doctrine of the union of the soul with the body, or upon the hypothetical
opinion concerning the soul, doubts arise in him as to whether the soul is thus or otherwise,
and when these doubts arise, his former idea is dissipated (De cælo et inferno, § 183). Nevertheless,
as Cournot says, "it is the destiny that awaits me, me or my person, that moves, perturbs and
consoles me, that makes me capable of abnegation and sacrifice, whatever be the origin, the
nature or the essence of this inexplicable bond of union, in the absence of which the philosophers
are pleased to determine that my person must disappear" (Traité, etc., § 297).

Must we then embrace the pure and naked faith in an eternal life without trying to represent
it to ourselves? This is impossible; it is beyond our power to bring ourselves or accustom
ourselves to do so. And nevertheless there are some who call themselves Christians and yet
leave almost altogether on one side this question of representation. Take any work of theology
informed by the most enlightened--that is, the most rationalistic and liberal--Protestantism;
take, for instance, the Dogmatik of Dr. Julius Kaftan, and of the 668 pages of which the sixth
edition, that of 1909, consists, you will find only one, the last, that is devoted to this
problem. And in this page, after affirming that Christ is not only the beginning and middle
but also the end and consummation of History, and that those who are in Christ will attain
to fullness of life, the eternal life of those who are in Christ, not a single word as to what
that life may be. Half a dozen words at most about eternal death, that is, hell, "for its existence
is demanded by the moral character of faith and of Christian hope." Its moral character, eh?
not its religious character, for I am not aware that the latter knows any such exigency. And
all this inspired by a prudent agnostic parsimony.

Yes, the prudent, the rational, and, some will say, the pious, attitude, is not to seek to
penetrate into mysteries that are hidden from our knowledge, not to insist upon shaping a plastic
representation of eternal glory, such as that of the Divina Commedia. True faith, true Christian
piety, we shall be told, consists in resting upon the confidence that God, by the grace of
Christ, will, in some way or another, make us live in Him, in His Son; that, as our destiny
is in His almighty hands, we should surrender ourselves to Him, in the full assurance that
He will do with us what is best for the ultimate end of life, of spirit and of the universe.
Such is the teaching that has traversed many centuries, and was notably prominent in the period
between Luther and Kant.

And nevertheless men have not ceased endeavouring to imagine to themselves what this eternal
life may be, nor will they cease their endeavours so long as they are men and not merely thinking
machines. There are books of theology--or of what passes for theology--full of disquisitions
upon the conditions under which the blessed dead live in paradise, upon their mode of enjoyment,
upon the properties of the glorious body, for without some form of body the soul cannot be
conceived.

And to this same necessity, the real necessity of forming to ourselves a concrete representation
of what this other life may be, must in great part be referred the indestructible vitality
of doctrines such as those of spiritualism, metempsychosis, the transmigration of souls from
star to star, and the like; doctrines which as often as they are pronounced to be defeated
and dead, are found to have come to life again, clothed in some more or less new form. And
it is merely supine to be content to ignore them and not to seek to discover their permanent
and living essence. Man will never willingly abandon his attempt to form a concrete representation
of the other life.

But is an eternal and endless life after death indeed thinkable? How can we conceive the life
of a disembodied spirit? How can we conceive such a spirit? How can we conceive a pure consciousness,
without a corporal organism? Descartes divided the world into thought and extension, a dualism
which was imposed upon him by the Christian dogma of the immortality of the soul. But is extension,
is matter, that which thinks and is spiritualized, or is thought that which is extended and
materialized? The weightiest questions of metaphysics arise practically out of our desire to
arrive at an understanding of the possibility of our immortality--from this fact they derive
their value and cease to be merely the idle discussions of fruitless curiosity. For the truth
is that metaphysics has no value save in so far as it attempts to explain in what way our vital
longing can or cannot be realized. And thus it is that there is and always will be a rational
metaphysic and a vital metaphysic, in perennial conflict with one another, the one setting
out from the notion of cause, the other from the notion of substance.

And even if we were to succeed in imagining personal immortality, might we not possibly feel
it to be something no less terrible than its negation? "Calypso was inconsolable at the departure
of Ulysses; in her sorrow she was dismayed at being immortal," said the gentle, the mystical
Fénelon at the beginning of his Télémaque. Was it not a kind of doom that the ancient gods,
no less than the demons, were subject to--the deprivation of the power to commit suicide?

When Jesus took Peter and James and John up into a high mountain and was transfigured before
them, his raiment shining as white as snow, and Moses and Elias appeared and talked with him,
Peter said to the Master: "Master, it is good for us to be here; and let us make three tabernacles;
one for thee and one for Moses and one for Elias," for he wished to eternalize that moment.
And as they came down from the mountain, Jesus charged them that they should tell no man what
they had seen until the Son of Man should have risen from the dead. And they, keeping this
saying to themselves, questioned one with another what this rising from the dead should mean,
as men not understanding the purport of it. And it was after this that Jesus met the father
whose son was possessed with a dumb spirit and who cried out to him, "Lord, I believe; help
thou mine unbelief" (Mark ix.).

Those three apostles did not understand what this rising from the dead meant. Neither did those
Sadducees who asked the Master whose wife she should be in the resurrection who in this life
had had seven husbands (Matt. xxii.); and it was then that Jesus said that God is not the God
of the dead, but of the living. And the other life is not, in fact, thinkable to us except
under the same forms as those of this earthly and transitory life. Nor is the mystery at all
clarified by that metaphor of the grain and the wheat that it bears, with which Paul answers
the question, "How are the dead raised up, and with what body do they come?" (1 Cor. xv. 35).

How can a human soul live and enjoy God eternally without losing its individual personality--that
is to say, without losing itself? What is it to enjoy God? What is eternity as opposed to time?
Does the soul change or does it not change in the other life? If it does not change, how does
it live? And if it changes, how does it preserve its individuality through so vast a period
of time? For though the other life may exclude space, it cannot exclude time, as Cournot observes
in the work quoted above.

If there is life in heaven there is change. Swedenborg remarked that the angels change, because
the delight of the celestial life would gradually lose its value if they always enjoyed it
in its fullness, and because angels, like men, love themselves, and he who loves himself experiences
changes of state; and he adds further that at times the angels are sad, and that he, Swedenborg,
discoursed with some when they were sad (De Cælo et Inferno, §§ 158, 160). In any case, it
is impossible for us to conceive life without change, change of growth or of diminution, of
sadness or of joy, of love or of hate.

In effect, an eternal life is unthinkable and an eternal life of absolute felicity, of beatific
vision, is more unthinkable still.

And what precisely is this beatific vision? We observe in the first place that it is called
vision and not action, something passive being therefore presupposed. And does not this beatific
vision suppose loss of personal consciousness? A saint in heaven, says Bossuet, is a being
who is scarcely sensible of himself, so completely is he possessed by God and immerged in His
glory.... Our attention cannot stay on the saint, because one finds him outside of himself,
and subject by an unchangeable love to the source of his being and his happiness (Du culte
qui est dû à Dieu). And these are the words of Bossuet, the antiquietist. This loving vision
of God supposes an absorption in Him. He who in a state of blessedness enjoys God in His fullness
must perforce neither think of himself, nor remember himself, nor have any consciousness of
himself, but be in perpetual ecstasy (ekstasis) outside of himself, in a condition of alienation.
And the ecstasy that the mystics describe is a prelude of this vision.

He who sees God shall die, say the Scriptures (Judg. xiii. 22); and may it not be that the
eternal vision of God is an eternal death, a swooning away of the personality? But St. Teresa,
in her description of the last state of prayer, the rapture, transport, flight, or ecstasy
of the soul, tells us that the soul is borne as upon a cloud or a mighty eagle, "but you see
yourself carried away and know not whither," and it is "with delight," and "if you do not resist,
the senses are not lost, at least I was so much myself as to be able to perceive that I was
being lifted up "--that is to say, without losing consciousness. And God "appears to be not
content with thus attracting the soul to Himself in so real a way, but wishes to have the body
also, though it be mortal and of earth so foul." "Ofttimes the soul is absorbed--or, to speak
more correctly, the Lord absorbs it in Himself; and when He has held it thus for a moment,
the will alone remains in union with Him"--not the intelligence alone. We see, therefore, that
it is not so much vision as a union of the will, and meanwhile, "the understanding and memory
are distraught ... like one who has slept long and dreamed and is hardly yet awake." It is
"a soft flight, a delicious flight, a noiseless flight." And in this delicious flight the consciousness
of self is preserved, the awareness of distinction from God with whom one is united. And one
is raised to this rapture, according to the Spanish mystic, by the contemplation of the Humanity
of Christ--that is to say, of something concrete and human; it is the vision of the living
God, not of the idea of God. And in the 28th chapter she tells us that "though there were nothing
else to delight the sight in heaven but the great beauty of the glorified bodies, that would
be an excessive bliss, particularly the vision of the Humanity of Jesus Christ our Lord...."
"This vision," she continues, "though imaginary, I did never see with my bodily eyes, nor,
indeed, any other, but only with the eyes of the soul." And thus it is that in heaven the soul
does not see God only, but everything in God, or rather it sees that everything is God, for
God embraces all things. And this idea is further emphasized by Jacob Böhme. The saint tells
us in the Moradas Setimas (vii. 2) that "this secret union takes place in the innermost centre
of the soul, where God Himself must dwell." And she goes on to say that "the soul, I mean the
spirit of the soul, is made one with God ..."; and this union may be likened to "two wax candles,
the tips of which touch each other so closely that there is but one light; or again, the wick,
the wax, and the light become one, but the one candle can again be separated from the other,
and the two candles remain distinct; or the wick may be withdrawn from the wax." But there
is another more intimate union, and this is "like rain falling from heaven into a river or
stream, becoming one and the same liquid, so that the river and the rain-water cannot be divided;
or it resembles a streamlet flowing into the sea, which cannot afterwards be disunited from
it; or it may be likened to a room into which a bright light enters through two windows--though
divided when it enters, the light becomes one and the same." And what difference is there between
this and the internal and mystical silence of Miguel de Molinos, the third and most perfect
degree of which is the silence of thought? (Guía Espiritual, book i., chap. xvii., § 128).
Do we not here very closely approach the view that "nothingness is the way to attain to that
high state of a mind reformed"? (book iii., chap. xx., § 196). And what marvel is it that Amiel
in his Journal Intime should twice have made use of the Spanish word nada, nothing, doubtless
because he found none more expressive in any other language? And nevertheless, if we read our
mystical doctor, St. Teresa, with care, we shall see that the sensitive element is never excluded,
the element of delight--that is to say, the element of personal consciousness. The soul allows
itself to be absorbed in God in order that it may absorb Him, in order that it may acquire
consciousness of its own divinity.

A beatific vision, a loving contemplation in which the soul is absorbed in God and, as it were,
lost in Him, appears either as an annihilation of self or as a prolonged tedium to our natural
way of feeling. And hence a certain feeling which we not infrequently observe and which has
more than once expressed itself in satires, not altogether free from irreverence or perhaps
impiety, with reference to the heaven of eternal glory as a place of eternal boredom. And it
is useless to despise feelings such as these, so wholly natural and spontaneous.

It is clear that those who feel thus have failed to take note of the fact that man's highest
pleasure consists in acquiring and intensifying consciousness. Not the pleasure of knowing,
exactly, but rather that of learning. In knowing a thing we tend to forget it, to convert it,
if the expression may be allowed, into unconscious knowledge. Man's pleasure, his purest delight,
is allied with the act of learning, of getting at the truth of things, of acquiring knowledge
with differentiation. And hence the famous saying of Lessing which I have already quoted. There
is a story told of an ancient Spaniard who accompanied Vasco Núñez de Balboa when he climbed
that peak in Darien from which both the Atlantic and the Pacific are visible. On beholding
the two oceans the old man fell on his knees and exclaimed, "I thank Thee, God, that Thou didst
not let me die without having seen so great a wonder." But if this man had stayed there, very
soon the wonder would have ceased to be wonderful, and with the wonder the pleasure, too, would
have vanished. His joy was the joy of discovery. And perhaps the joy of the beatific vision
may be not exactly that of the contemplation of the supreme Truth, whole and entire (for this
the soul could not endure), but rather that of a continual discovery of the Truth, of a ceaseless
act of learning involving an effort which keeps the sense of personal consciousness continually
active.

It is difficult for us to conceive a beatific vision of mental quiet, of full knowledge and
not of gradual apprehension, as in any way different from a kind of Nirvana, a spiritual diffusion,
a dissipation of energy in the essence of God, a return to unconsciousness induced by the absence
of shock, of difference--in a word, of activity.

May it not be that the very condition which makes our eternal union with God thinkable destroys
our longing? What difference is there between being absorbed by God and absorbing Him in ourself?
Is it the stream that is lost in the sea or the sea that is lost in the stream? It is all the same.

Our fundamental feeling is our longing not to lose the sense of the continuity of our consciousness,
not to break the concatenation of our memories, the feeling of our own personal concrete identity,
even though we may be gradually being absorbed in God, enriching Him. Who at eighty years of
age remembers the child that he was at eight, conscious though he may be of the unbroken chain
connecting the two? And it may be said that the problem for feeling resolves itself into the
question as to whether there is a God, whether there is a human finality to the Universe. But
what is finality? For just as it is always possible to ask the why of every why, so it is also
always possible to ask the wherefore of every wherefore. Supposing that there is a God, then
wherefore God? For Himself, it will be said. And someone is sure to reply: What is the difference
between this consciousness and no-consciousness? But it will always be true, as Plotinus has
said (Enn., ii., ix., 8), that to ask why God made the world is the same as to ask why there
is a soul. Or rather, not why, but wherefore (dia ti).

For him who places himself outside himself, in an objective hypothetical position--which is
as much as to say in an inhuman position--the ultimate wherefore is as inaccessible--and strictly,
as absurd--as the ultimate why. What difference in effect does it make if there is not any
finality? What logical contradiction is involved in the Universe not being destined to any
finality, either human or superhuman? What objection is there in reason to there being no other
purpose in the sum of things save only to exist and happen as it does exist and happen? For
him who places himself outside himself, none; but for him who lives and suffers and desires
within himself--for him it is a question of life or death. Seek, therefore, thyself! But in
finding oneself, does not one find one's own nothingness? "Having become a sinner in seeking
himself, man has become wretched in finding himself," said Bossuet (Traité de la Concupiscence,
chap. xi.). "Seek thyself" begins with "Know thyself."

Yes, but what I work at, will not that too be lost in the end? And if it be lost, wherefore
should I work at it? Yes, yes, it may be that to accomplish my work--and what is my work?--without
thinking about myself, is to love God. And what is it to love God?

And on the other hand, in loving God in myself, am I not loving myself more than God, am I
not loving myself in God?

What we really long for after death is to go on living this life, this same mortal life, but
without its ills, without its tedium, and without death. Seneca, the Spaniard, gave expression
to this in his Consolatio ad Marciam (xxvi.); what he desired was to live this life again:
ista moliri. And what Job asked for (xix. 25-7) was to see God in the flesh, not in the spirit.
And what but that is the meaning of that comic conception of eternal recurrence which issued
from the tragic soul of poor Nietzsche, hungering for concrete and temporal immortality?

And this beatific vision which is the primary Catholic solution of the problem, how can it
be realized, I ask again, without obliteration of the consciousness of self? Will it not be
like a sleep in which we dream without knowing what we dream? Who would wish for an eternal
life like that? To think without knowing that we think is not to be sensible of ourselves,
it is not to be ourselves. And is not eternal life perhaps eternal consciousness, not only
seeing God, but seeing that we see Him, seeing ourselves at the same time and ourselves as
distinct from Him? He who sleeps lives, but he has no consciousness of himself; and would anyone
wish for an eternal sleep? When Circe advised Ulysses to descend to the abode of the dead in
order to consult the soothsayer Teiresias, she told him that Teiresias alone among the shades
of the dead was possessed of understanding, for all the others flitted about like shadows (Odyssey,
x., 487-495). And can it be said that the others, apart from Teiresias, had really overcome
death? Is it to overcome death to flit about like shadows without understanding?

And on the other hand, may we not imagine that possibly this earthly life of ours is to the
other life what sleep is to waking? May not all our life be a dream and death an awakening?
But an awakening to what? And supposing that everything is but the dream of God and that God
one day will awaken? Will He remember His dream?

Aristotle, the rationalist, tells in his Ethics of the superior happiness of the contemplative
life, bios theôrêtikos; and all rationalists are wont to place happiness in knowledge. And
the conception of eternal happiness, of the enjoyment of God, as a beatific vision, as knowledge
and comprehension of God, is a thing of rationalist origin, it is the kind of happiness that
corresponds with the God-Idea of Aristotelianism. But the truth is that, in addition to vision,
happiness demands delight, and this is a thing which has very little to do, with rationalism
and is only attainable when we feel ourselves distinct from God.

Our Aristotelian Catholic theologian, the author of the endeavour to rationalize Catholic feeling,
St. Thomas Aquinas, tells us in his Summa (prima secundæ partis, quæstio iv., art. i) that
"delight is requisite for happiness. For delight is caused by the fact of desire resting in
attained good. Hence, since happiness is nothing but the attainment of the Sovereign Good,
there cannot be happiness without concomitant delight." But where is the delight of him who
rests? To rest, requiescere--is not that to sleep and not to possess even the consciousness
that one is resting? "Delight is caused by the vision of God itself," the theologian continues.
But does the soul feel itself distinct from God? "The delight that accompanies the activity
of the understanding does not impede, but rather strengthens that activity," he says later
on. Obviously! for what happiness were it else? And in order to save delectation, delight,
pleasure, which, like pain, has always something material in it, and which we conceive of only
as existing in a soul incarnate in a body, it was necessary to suppose that the soul in a state
of blessedness is united with its body. Apart from some kind of body, how is delight possible?
The immortality of the pure soul, without some sort of body or spirit-covering, is not true
immortality. And at bottom, what we long for is a prolongation of this life, this life and
no other, this life of flesh and suffering, this life which we imprecate at times simply because
it comes to an end. The majority of suicides would not take their lives if they had the assurance
that they would never die on this earth. The self-slayer kills himself because he will not
wait for death.

When in the thirty-third canto of the Paradiso, Dante relates how he attained to the vision
of God, he tells us that just as a man who beholds somewhat in his sleep retains on awakening
nothing but the impression of the feeling in his mind, so it was with him, for when the vision
had all but passed away the sweetness that sprang from it still distilled itself in his heart.

    Cotal son to, che quasi tutta cessa
    mia visione ed ancor mi distilla
    nel cuor lo dulce che nacque da essa

like snow that melts in the sun--

    cosi la neve al sol si disigilla.

That is to say, that the vision, the intellectual content, passes, and that which remains is
the delight, the passione impressa, the emotional, the irrational--in a word, the corporeal.

What we desire is not merely spiritual felicity, not merely vision, but delight, bodily happiness.
The other happiness, the rationalist beatitude, the happiness of being submerged in understanding,
can only--I will not say satisfy or deceive, for I do not believe that it ever satisfied or
deceived even a Spinoza. And after these tragic, these desolating propositions, we are told
in the last proposition of the whole book, that which closes and crowns this tremendous tragedy
of the Ethic, that happiness is not the reward of virtue, but virtue itself, and that our repression
of our desires is not the cause of our enjoyment of virtue, but rather because we find enjoyment
in virtue we are able to repress our desires. Intellectual love! intellectual love! what is
this intellectual love? Something of the nature of a red flavour, or a bitter sound, or an
aromatic colour, or rather something of the same sort as a love-stricken triangle or an enraged
ellipse--a pure metaphor, but a tragic metaphor. And a metaphor corresponding tragically with
that saying that the heart also has its reasons. Reasons of the heart! loves of the head! intellectual
delight! delicious intellection!--tragedy, tragedy, tragedy!

And nevertheless there is something which may be called intellectual love, and that is the
love of understanding, that which Aristotle meant by the contemplative life, for there is something
of action and of love in the act of understanding, and the beatific vision is the vision of
the total truth. Is there not perhaps at the root of every passion something of curiosity?
Did not our first parents, according to the Biblical story, fall because of their eagerness
to taste of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, and to be as gods, knowers
of this knowledge? The vision of God--that is to say, the vision of the Universe itself, in
its soul, in its inmost essence--would not that appease all our longing? And this vision can
fail to satisfy only men of a gross mind who do not perceive that the greatest joy of man is
to be more man--that is, more God--and that man is more God the more consciousness he has.

And this intellectual love, which is nothing but the so-called platonic love, is a means to
dominion and possession. There is, in fact, no more perfect dominion than knowledge; he who
knows something, possesses it. Knowledge unites the knower with the known. "I contemplate thee
and in contemplating thee I make thee mine"--such is the formula. And to know God, what can
that be but to possess Him? He who knows God is thereby himself God.

In La Dégradation de l'énergie (iv^e partie, chap. xviii., 2) B. Brunhes relates a story concerning
the great Catholic mathematician Cauchy, communicated to him by M. Sarrau, who had it from
Père Gratry. While Cauchy and Père Gratry were walking in the gardens of the Luxumbourg, their
conversation turned upon the happiness which those in heaven would have in knowing at last,
without any obscurity or limitation, the truths which they had so long and so laboriously sought
to investigate on earth. In allusion to the study which Cauchy had made of the mechanistic
theory of the reflection of light, Père Gratry threw out the suggestion that one on the greatest
intellectual joys of the great geometrician in the future life would be to penetrate into the
secret of light. To which Cauchy replied that it did not appear to him to be possible to know
more about this than he himself already knew, neither could he conceive how the most perfect
intelligence could arrive at a clearer comprehension of the mystery of reflection than that
manifested in his own explanation of it, seeing that he had furnished a mechanistic theory
of the phenomenon. "His piety," Brunhes adds, "did not extend to a belief that God Himself
could have created anything different or anything better."

From this narrative two points of interest emerge. The first is the idea expressed in it as
to what contemplation, intellectual love, or beatific vision, may mean for men of a superior
order of intelligence, men whose ruling passion is knowledge; and the second is the implicit
faith shown in the mechanistic explanation of the world.

This mechanistic tendency of the intellect coheres with the well-known formula, "Nothing is
created, nothing is lost, everything is transformed"--a formula by means of which it has been
sought to interpret the ambiguous principle of the conservation of energy, forgetting that
practically, for us, for men, energy is utilizable energy, and that this is continually being
lost, dissipated by the diffusion of heat, and degraded, its tendency being to arrive at a
dead-level and homogeneity. That which has value, and more than value, reality, for us, is
the differential, which is the qualitative; pure, undifferentiated quantity is for us as if
it did not exist, for it does not act. And the material Universe, the body of the Universe,
would appear to be gradually proceeding--unaffected by the retarding action of living organisms
or even by the conscious action of man--towards a state of perfect stability, of homogeneity
(vide Brunhes, op. cit.) For, while spirit tends towards concentration, material energy tends
towards diffusion.

And may not this have an intimate relation with our problem? May there not be a connection
between this conclusion of scientific philosophy with respect to a final state of stability
and homogeneity and the mystical dream of the apocatastasis? May not this death of the body
of the Universe be the final triumph of its spirit, of God?

It is manifest that there is an intimate relation between the religious need of an eternal
life after death and the conclusions--always provisional--at which scientific philosophy arrives
with respect to the probable future of the material or sensible Universe. And the fact is that
just as there are theologians of God and the immortality of the soul, so there are also those
whom Brunhes calls (op. cit., chap. xxvi., § 2) theologians of monism, and whom it would perhaps
be better to call atheologians, people who pertinaciously adhere to the spirit of a priori
affirmation; and this becomes intolerable, Brunhes adds, when they harbour the pretension of
despising theology. A notable type of these gentlemen may be found in Haeckel, who has succeeded
in solving the riddles of Nature!

These atheologians have seized upon the principle of the conservation of energy, the "Nothing
is created, nothing is lost, everything is transformed" formula, the theological origin of
which is seen in Descartes, and have made use of it as a means whereby we are able to dispense
with God. "The world built to last," Brunhes comments, "resisting all wear and tear, or rather
automatically repairing the rents that appear in it--what a splendid theme for oratorical amplification!
But these same amplifications which served in the seventeenth century to prove the wisdom of
the Creator have been used in our days as arguments for those who presume to do without Him."
It is the old story: so-called scientific philosophy, the origin and inspiration of which is
fundamentally theological or religious, ending in an atheology or irreligion, which is itself
nothing else but theology and religion. Let us call to mind the comments of Ritschl upon this
head, already quoted in this work.

To-day the last word of science, or rather of scientific philosophy, appears to be that, by
virtue of the degradation of energy, of the predominance of irreversible phenomena, the material,
sensible world is travelling towards a condition of ultimate levelness, a kind of final homogeneity.
And this brings to our mind the hypothesis, not only so much used but abused by Spencer, of
a primordial homogeneity, and his fantastic theory of the instability of the homogeneous. An
instability that required the atheological agnosticism of Spencer in order to explain the inexplicable
transition from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous. For how, without any action from without,
can any heterogeneity emerge from perfect and absolute homogeneity? But as it was necessary
to get rid of every kind of creation, "the unemployed engineer turned metaphysician," as Papini
called him, invented the theory of the instability of the homogeneous, which is more ... what
shall I say? more mystical, and even more mythological if you like, than the creative action
of God.

The Italian positivist, Roberto Ardigo, was nearer the mark when, objecting to Spencer's theory,
he said that the most natural supposition was that things always were as they are now, that
always there have been worlds in process of formation, in the nebulous stage, worlds completely
formed and worlds in process of dissolution; that heterogeneity, in short, is eternal. Another
way, it will be seen, of not solving the riddle.

Is this perhaps the solution? But in that case the Universe would be infinite, and in reality
we are unable to conceive a Universe that is both eternal and limited such as that which served
as the basis of Nietzsche's theory of eternal recurrence. If the Universe must be eternal,
if within it and as regards each of its component worlds, periods in which the movement is
towards homogeneity, towards the degradation of energy, must alternate with other periods in
which the movement is towards heterogeneity, then it is necessary that the Universe should
be infinite, that there should be scope, always and in each world, for some action coming from
without. And, in fact, the body of God cannot be other than eternal and infinite.

But as far as our own world is concerned, its gradual levelling-down--or, we might say, its
death--appears to be proved. And how will this process affect the fate of our spirit? Will
it wane with the degradation of the energy of our world and return to unconsciousness, or will
it rather grow according as the utilizable energy diminishes and by virtue of the very efforts
that it makes to retard this degradation and to dominate Nature?--for this it is that constitutes
the life of the spirit. May it be that consciousness and its extended support are two powers
in contraposition, the one growing at the expense of the other?

The fact is that the best of our scientific work, the best of our industry (that part of it
I mean--and it is a large part--that does not tend to destruction), is directed towards retarding
this fatal process of the degradation of energy. And organic life, the support of our consciousness,
is itself an effort to avoid, so far as it is possible, this fatal period, to postpone it.

It is useless to seek to deceive ourselves with pagan pæans in praise of Nature, for as Leopardi,
that Christian atheist, said with profound truth in his stupendous poem La Ginestra, Nature
"gives us life like a mother, but loves us like a step-mother." The origin of human companionship
was opposition to Nature; it was horror of impious Nature that first linked men together in
the bonds of society. It is human society, in effect, the source of reflective consciousness
and of the craving for immortality, that inaugurates the state of grace upon the state of Nature;
and it is man who, by humanizing and spiritualizing Nature by his industry, supernaturalizes her.

In two amazing sonnets which he called Redemption, the tragic Portuguese poet, Antero de Quental,
embodied his dream of a spirit imprisoned, not in atoms or ions or crystals, but--as is natural
in a poet--in the sea, in trees, in the forest, in the mountains, in the wind, in all material
individualities and forms; and he imagines that a day may come when all these captive souls,
as yet in the limbo of existence, will awaken to consciousness, and, emerging as pure thought
from the forms that imprisoned them, they will see these forms, the creatures of illusion,
fall away and dissolve like a baseless vision. It is a magnificent dream of the penetration
of everything by consciousness.

May it not be that the Universe, our Universe--who knows if there are others?--began with a
zero of spirit--and zero is not the same as nothing--and an infinite of matter, and that its
goal is to end with an infinite of spirit and a zero of matter? Dreams!

May it be that everything has a soul and that this soul begs to be freed?

    Oh tierras de Alvargonzález,
    en el corazón de España,
    tierras pobres, tierras tristes,
    tan tristes que tienen alma!

sings our poet Antonio Machado in his Campos de Castilla.[50] Is the sadness of the field in
the fields themselves or in us who look upon them? Do they not suffer? But what can an individual
soul in a world of matter actually be? Is it the rock or the mountain that is the individual?
Is it the tree?

And nevertheless the fact always remains that spirit and matter are at strife. This is the
thought that Espronceda expressed when he wrote:

    Aquí, para vivir en santa calma,
    o sobra la materia, o sobra el alma.[51]

And is there not in the history of thought, or of human imagination if you prefer it, something
that corresponds to this process of the reduction of matter, in the sense of a reduction of
everything to consciousness?

Yes, there is, and its author is the first Christian mystic, St. Paul of Tarsus, the Apostle
of the Gentiles, he who because he had never with his bodily eyes looked upon the face of the
fleshly and mortal Christ, the ethical Christ, created within himself an immortal and religious
Christ--he who was caught up into the third heaven and there beheld secret and unspeakable
things (2 Cor. xii.). And this first Christian mystic dreamed also of a final triumph of spirit,
of consciousness, and this is what in theology is technically called the apocatastasis or restitution.

In 1 Cor. xv.

This doctrine is completed by Paul's teaching, in his Epistle to the Ephesians, with regard
to the end of the whole history of the world. In this Epistle, as you know, he represents Christ--by
whom "were all things created, that are in heaven and that are in earth, visible and invisible"
And this gathering of us together in Christ, who is the head and, as it were, the compendium,
of Humanity, is what the Apostle calls the gathering or collecting together or recapitulating
of all things in Christ, anakephalaiôsthai ta panta en Christô. And this recapitulation--anakephalaiôsis,
anacefaleosis--the end of the world's history and of the human race, is merely another aspect
of the apocatastasis. The apocatastasis, God's coming to be all in all, thus resolves itself
into the anacefaleosis, the gathering together of all things in Christ, in Humanity--Humanity
therefore being the end of creation. And does not this apocatastasis, this humanization or
divinization of all things, do away with matter? But if matter, which is the principle of individuation,
the scholastic principium individuationis, is once done away with, does not everything return
to pure consciousness, which, in its pure purity, neither knows itself nor is it anything that
can be conceived or felt? And if matter be abolished, what support is there left for spirit?

Thus a different train of thought leads us to the same difficulties, the same unthinkabilities.

It may be said, on the other hand, that the apocatastasis, God's coming to be all in all, presupposes
that there was a time when He was not all in all. The supposition that all beings shall attain
to the enjoyment of God implies the supposition that God shall attain to the enjoyment of all
beings, for the beatific vision is mutual, and God is perfected in being better known, and
His being is nourished and enriched with souls.

Following up the track of these wild dreams, we might imagine an unconscious God, slumbering
in matter, and gradually wakening into consciousness of everything, consciousness of His own
divinity; we might imagine the whole Universe becoming conscious of itself as a whole and becoming
conscious of each of its constituent consciousnesses, becoming God. But in that case, how did
this unconscious God begin? Is He not matter itself? God would thus be not the beginning but
the end of the Universe; but can that be the end which was not the beginning? Or can it be
that outside time, in eternity, there is a difference between beginning and end? "The soul
of all things cannot be bound by that very thing--that is, matter--which it itself has bound,"
says Plotinus (Enn. ii., ix. 7). Or is it not rather the Consciousness of the Whole that strives
to become the consciousness of each part and to make each partial consciousness conscious of
itself--that is, of the total consciousness? Is not this universal soul a monotheist or solitary
God who is in process of becoming a pantheist God? And if it is not so, if matter and pain
are alien to God, wherefore, it will be asked, did God create the world? For what purpose did
He make matter and introduce pain? Would it not have been better if He had not made anything?
What added glory does He gain by the creation of angels or of men whose fall He must punish
with eternal torment? Did He perhaps create evil for the sake of remedying it? Or was redemption
His design, redemption complete and absolute, redemption of all things and of all men? For
this hypothesis is neither more rational nor more pious than the other.

In so far as we attempt to represent eternal happiness to ourselves, we are confronted by a
series of questions to which there is no satisfactory--that is, rational--answer, and it matters
not whether the supposition from which we start be monotheist, or pantheist, or even panentheist.

Let us return to the Pauline apocatastasis.

Is it not possible that in becoming all in all God completes Himself, becomes at last fully
God, an infinite consciousness embracing all consciousnesses? And what is an infinite consciousness?
Since consciousness supposes limitation, or rather since consciousness is consciousness of
limitation, of distinction, does it not thereby exclude infinitude? What value has the notion
of infinitude applied to consciousness? What is a consciousness that is all consciousness,
without anything outside it that is not consciousness? In such a case, of what is consciousness
the consciousness? Of its content? Or may it not rather be that, starting from chaos, from
absolute unconsciousness, in the eternity of the past, we continually approach the apocatastasis
or final apotheosis without ever reaching it?

May not this apocatastasis, this return of all things to God, be rather an ideal term to which
we unceasingly approach--some of us with fleeter step than others--but which we are destined
never to reach? May not the absolute and perfect eternal happiness be an eternal hope, which
would die if it were to be realized? Is it possible to be happy without hope? And there is
no place for hope when once possession has been realized, for hope, desire, is killed by possession.
May it not be, I say, that all souls grow without ceasing, some in a greater measure than others,
but all having to pass some time through the same degree of growth, whatever that degree may
be, and yet without ever arriving at the infinite, at God, to whom they continually approach?
Is not eternal happiness an eternal hope, with its eternal nucleus of sorrow in order that
happiness shall not be swallowed up in nothingness?

Follow more questions to which there is no answer. "He shall be all in all," says the Apostle.
But will His mode of being in each one be different or will it be the same for all alike? Will
not God be wholly in one of the damned? Is He not in his soul? Is He not in what is called
hell? And in what sense is He in hell?

Whence arise new problems, those relating to the opposition between heaven and hell, between
eternal happiness and eternal unhappiness.

May it not be that in the end all shall be saved, including Cain and Judas and Satan himself,
as Origen's development of the Pauline apocatastasis led him to hope?

When our Catholic theologians seek to justify rationally--or in other words, ethically--the
dogma of the eternity of the pains of hell, they put forward reasons so specious, ridiculous,
and childish, that it would appear impossible that they should ever have obtained currency.
For to assert that since God is infinite, an offence committed against Him is infinite also
and therefore demands an eternal punishment, is, apart from the inconceivability of an infinite
offence, to be unaware that, in human ethics, if not in the human police system, the gravity
of the offence is measured not by the dignity of the injured person but by the intention of
the injurer, and that to speak of an infinite culpable intention is sheer nonsense, and nothing
else. In this connection those words which Christ addressed to His Father are capable of application:
"Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do," and no man who commits an offence against
God or his neighbour knows what he does. In human ethics, or if you like in human police regulations--that
which is called penal law and is anything but law[52] eternal punishment is a meaningless phrase.

"God is just and punishes us; that is all we need to know; as far as we are concerned the rest
is merely curiosity." Such was the conclusion of Lamennais (Essai, etc., iv^e partie, chap,
vii.), an opinion shared by many others. Calvin also held the same view. But is there anyone
who is content with this? Pure curiosity!--to call this load that wellnigh crushes our heart
pure curiosity!

May we not say, perhaps, that the evil man is annihilated because he wished to be annihilated,
or that he did not wish strongly enough to eternalize himself because he was evil? May we not
say that it is not believing in the other life that makes a man good, but rather that being
good makes him believe in it? And what is being good and being evil? These states pertain to
the sphere of ethics, not of religion: or, rather, does not the doing good though being evil
pertain to ethics, and the being good though doing evil to religion?

Shall we not perhaps be told, on the other hand, that if the sinner suffers an eternal punishment,
it is because he does not cease to sin?--for the damned sin without ceasing. This, however,
is no solution of the problem, which derives all its absurdity from the fact that punishment
has been conceived as vindictiveness or vengeance, not as correction, has been conceived after
the fashion of barbarous peoples. And in the same way hell has been conceived as a sort of
police institution, necessary in order to put fear into the world. And the worst of it is that
it no longer intimidates, and therefore will have to be shut up.

But, on the other hand, as a religious conception and veiled in mystery, why not--although
the idea revolts our feelings--an eternity of suffering? why not a God who is nourished by
our suffering? Is our happiness the end of the Universe? or may we possibly sustain with our
suffering some alien happiness? Let us read again in the Eumenides of that terrible tragedian,
Æschylus, those choruses of the Furies in which they curse the new gods for overturning the
ancient laws and snatching Orestes from their hands--impassioned invectives against the Apollinian
redemption. Does not redemption tear man, their captive and plaything, from the hands of the
gods, who delight and amuse themselves in his sufferings, like children, as the tragic poet
says, torturing beetles? And let us remember the cry, "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?"

Yes, why not an eternity of suffering? Hell is an eternalization of the soul, even though it
be an eternity of pain. Is not pain essential to life?

Men go on inventing theories to explain what they call the origin of evil. And why not the
origin of good? Why suppose that it is good that is positive and original, and evil that is
negative and derivatory? "Everything that is, in so far as it is, is good," St. Augustine affirmed.
But why? What does "being good" mean? Good is good for something, conducive to an end, and
to say that everything is good is equivalent to saying that everything is making for its end.
But what is its end? Our desire is to eternalize ourselves, to persist, and we call good everything
that conspires to this end and bad everything that tends to lessen or destroy our consciousness.
We suppose that human consciousness is an end and not a means to something else which may not
be consciousness, whether human or superhuman.

All metaphysical optimism, such as that of Leibnitz, and all metaphysical pessimism, such as
that of Schopenhauer, have no other foundation than this. For Leibnitz this world is the best
because it conspires to perpetuate consciousness, and, together with consciousness, will, because
intelligence increases will and perfects it, because the end of man is the contemplation of
God; while for Schopenhauer this world is the worst of all possible worlds, because it conspires
to destroy will, because intelligence, representation, nullifies the will that begot it.

And similarly Franklin, who believed in another life, asserted that he was willing to live
this life over again, the life that he had actually lived, "from its beginning to the end";
while Leopardi, who did not believe in another life, asserted that nobody would consent to
live his life over again. These two views of life are not merely ethical, but religious; and
the feeling of moral good, in so far as it is a teleological value, is of religious origin also.

And to return to our interrogations: Shall not all be saved, shall not all be made eternal,
and eternal not in suffering but in happiness, those whom we call good and those whom we call
bad alike?

And as regards this question of good and evil, does not the malice of him who judges enter
in? Is the badness in the intention of him who does the deed or is it not rather in that of
him who judges it to be bad? But the terrible thing is that man judges himself, creates himself
his own judge.

Who then shall be saved? And now the imagination puts forth another possibility--neither more
nor less rational than all those which have just been put forward interrogatively--and that
is that only those are saved who have longed to be saved, that only those are eternalized who
have lived in an agony of hunger for eternity and for eternalization. He who desires never
to die and believes that he shall never die in the spirit, desires it because he deserves it,
or rather, only he desires personal immortality who carries his immortality within him. The
man who does not long passionately, and with a passion that triumphs over all the dictates
of reason, for his own immortality, is the man who does not deserve it, and because he does
not deserve it he does not long for it. And it is no injustice not to give a man that which
he does not know how to desire, for "ask, and it shall be given you." It may be that to each
will be given that which he desired. And perhaps the sin against the Holy Ghost--for which,
according to the Evangelist, there is no remission--is none other than that of not desiring
God, not longing to be made eternal.

    As is your sort of mind
    So is your sort of search; you'll find
    What you desire, and that's to be
    A Christian,

said Robert Browning in Christmas Eve and Easter Day.

In his Inferno Dante condemned the Epicureans, those who did not believe in another life, to
something more terrible than the not having it, and that is the consciousness of not having
it, and this he expressed in plastic form by picturing them shut up in their tombs for all
eternity, without light, without air, without fire, without movement, without life (Inferno,
x., 10-15).

What cruelty is there in denying to a man that which he did not or could not desire? In the
sixth book of his Æneid (426-429) the gentle Virgil makes us hear the plaintive voices and
sobbing of the babes who weep upon the threshold of Hades,

    Continuo àuditæ voces, vagitus et ingens,
    Infantumque animæ flentes in limine primo,

unhappy in that they had but entered upon life and never known the sweetness of it, and whom,
torn from their mothers' breasts, a dark day had cut off and drowned in bitter death--

    Quos dulcis vitæ exsortes et at ubere raptos
    Abstulit atra dies et funere mersit acerbo.

But what life did they lose, if they neither knew life nor longed for it? And yet is it true
that they never longed for it?

It may be said that others craved life on their behalf, that their parents longed for them
to be eternal to the end that they might be gladdened by them in paradise. And so a fresh field
is opened up for the imagination--namely, the consideration of the solidarity and representivity
of eternal salvation.

There are many, indeed, who imagine the human race as one being, a collective and solidary
individual, in whom each member may represent or may come to represent the total collectivity;
and they imagine salvation as something collective. As something collective also, merit, and
as something collective sin, and redemption. According to this mode of feeling and imagining,
either all are saved or none is saved; redemption is total and it is mutual; each man is his
neighbour's Christ.

And is there not perhaps a hint of this in the popular Catholic belief with regard to souls
in purgatory, the belief that the living may devote suffrages and apply merits to the souls
of their dead? This sense of the transmission of merits, both to the living and the dead, is
general in popular Catholic piety.

Nor should it be forgotten that in the history of man's religious thought there has often presented
itself the idea of an immortality restricted to a certain number of the elect, spirits representative
of the rest and in a certain sense including them; an idea of pagan derivation--for such were
the heroes and demi-gods--which sometimes shelters itself behind the pronouncement that there
are many that are called and few that are chosen.

Recently, while I was engaged upon this essay, there came into my hands the third edition of
the Dialogue sur la vie et sur la mort, by Charles Bonnefon, a book in which imaginative conceptions
similar to those that I have been setting forth find succinct and suggestive expression. The
soul cannot live without the body, Bonnefon says, nor the body without the soul, and thus neither
birth nor death has any real existence--strictly speaking, there is no body, no soul, no birth,
no death, all of which are abstractions and appearances, but only a thinking life, of which
we form part and which can neither be born nor die. Hence he is led to deny human individuality
and to assert that no one can say "I am" but only "we are," or, more correctly, "there is in
us." It is humanity, the species, that thinks and loves in us. And souls are transmitted in
the same way that bodies are transmitted. "The living thought or the thinking life which we
are will find itself again immediately in a form analogous to that which was our origin and
corresponding with our being in the womb of a pregnant woman." Each of us, therefore, has lived
before and will live again, although he does not know it. "If humanity is gradually raised
above itself, when the last man dies, the man who will contain all the rest of mankind in himself,
who shall say that he may not have arrived at that higher order of humanity such as exists
elsewhere, in heaven?... As we are all bound together in solidarity, we shall all, little by
little, gather the fruits of our travail." According to this mode of imagining and thinking,
since nobody is born, nobody dies, no single soul has finished its struggle but many times
has been plunged into the midst of the human struggle "ever since the type of embryo corresponding
with the same consciousness was represented in the succession of human phenomena." It is obvious
that since Bonnefon begins by denying personal individuality, he leaves out of account our
real longing, which is to save our individuality; but on the other hand, since he, Bonnefon,
is a personal individual and feels this longing, he has recourse to the distinction between
the called and the chosen, and to the idea of representative spirits, and he concedes to a
certain number of men this representative individual immortality. Of these elect he says that
"they will be somewhat more necessary to God than we ourselves." And he closes this splendid
dream by supposing that "it is not impossible that we shall arrive by a series of ascensions
at the supreme happiness, and that our life shall be merged in the perfect Life as a drop of
water in the sea. Then we shall understand," he continues, "that everything was necessary,
that every philosophy and every religion had its hour of truth, and that in all our wanderings
and errors and in the darkest moments of our history we discerned the light of the distant
beacon, and that we were all predestined to participate in the Eternal Light. And if the God
whom we shall find again possesses a body--and we cannot conceive a living God without a body--we,
together with each of the myriads of races that the myriads of suns have brought forth, shall
be the conscious cells of his body. If this dream should be fulfilled, an ocean of love would
beat upon our shores and the end of every life would be to add a drop of water to this ocean's
infinity." And what is this cosmic dream of Bonnefon's but the plastic representation of the
Pauline apocatastasis?

Yes, this dream, which has its origin far back in the dawn of Christianity, is fundamentally
the same as the Pauline anacefaleosis, the fusion of all men in Man, in the whole of Humanity
embodied in a Person, who is Christ, and the fusion not only of all men but of all things,
and the subsequent subjection of all things to God, in order that God, Consciousness, may be
all in all. And this supposes a collective redemption and a society beyond the grave.

In the middle of the eighteenth century, two pietists of Protestant origin, Johann Jakob Moser
and Friedrich Christoph Oetinger, gave a new force and value to the Pauline anacefaleosis.
Moser "declared that his religion consisted not in holding certain doctrines to be true and
in living a virtuous life conformably therewith, but in being reunited to God through Christ.
But this demands the thorough knowledge--a knowledge that goes on increasing until the end
of life--of one's own sins and also of the mercy and patience of God, the transformation of
all natural feelings, the appropriation of the atonement wrought by the death of Christ, the
enjoyment of peace with God in the permanent witness of the Holy Spirit to the remission of
sins, the ordering of life according to the pattern of Christ, which is the fruit of faith
alone, the drawing near to God and the intercourse of the soul with Him, the disposition to
die in grace and the joyful expectation of the Judgement which will bestow blessedness in the
more intimate enjoyment of God and in the commerce with all the saints" (Ritschl, Geschichte
des Pietismus, vol. iii., § 43). The commerce with all the saints--that is to say, the eternal
human society. And for his part, Oetinger considers eternal happiness not as the contemplation
of God in His infinitude, but, taking the Epistle to the Ephesians as his authority, as the
contemplation of God in the harmony of the creature with Christ. The commerce with all the
saints was, according to him, essential to the content of eternal happiness. It was the realization
of the kingdom of God, which thus comes to be the kingdom of Man. And in his exposition of
these doctrines of the two pietists, Ritschl confesses (op. cit., iii., § 46) that both witnesses
have with these doctrines contributed something to Protestantism that is of like value with
the theological method of Spener, another pietist.

We see, therefore, that the Christian, mystical, inward longing ever since St. Paul, has been
to give human finality, or divine finality, to the Universe, to save human consciousness, and
to save it by converting all humanity into a person. This longing is expressed in the anacefaleosis,
the gathering together of all things, all things in earth and in heaven, the visible and the
invisible, in Christ, and also in the apocatastasis, the return of all things to God, to consciousness,
in order that God may be all in all. And does not God's being all in all mean that all things
shall acquire consciousness and that in this consciousness everything that has happened will
come to life again, and that everything that has existed in time will be eternalized? And within
the all, all individual consciousnesses, those which have been, those that are, and those that
will be, and as they have been, as they are, and as they will be, will exist in a condition
of society and solidarity.

But does not this awakening to consciousness of everything that has been, necessarily involve
a fusion of the identical, an amalgamation of like things? In this conversion of the human
race into a true society in Christ, a communion of saints, a kingdom of heaven, will not individual
differences, tainted as they are with deceit and even with sin, be obliterated, and in the
perfect society will that alone remain of each man which was the essential part of him? Would
it not perhaps result, according to Bonnefon's supposition, that this consciousness that lived
in the twentieth century in this corner of this earth would feel itself to be the same with
other such consciousnesses as have lived in other centuries and perhaps in other worlds?

And how can we conceive of an effective and real union, a substantial and intimate union, soul
with soul, of all those who have been?

    If any two creatures grew into one
    They would do more than the world has done,

said Browning in The Flight of the Duchess; and Christ has told us that where two or three
are gathered together in His name, there is He in the midst of them.

Heaven, then, so it is believed by many, is society, a more perfect society than that of this
world; it is human society fused into a person. And there are not wanting some who believe
that the tendency of all human progress is the conversion of our species into one collective
being with real consciousness--is not perhaps an individual human organism a kind of confederation
of cells?--and that when it shall have acquired full consciousness, all those who have existed
will come to life again in it.

Heaven, so many think, is society. Just as no one can live in isolation, so no one can survive
in isolation. No one can enjoy God in heaven who sees his brother suffering in hell, for the
sin and the merit were common to both. We think with the thoughts of others and we feel with
the feelings of others. To see God when God shall be all in all is to see all things in God
and to live in God with all things.

This splendid dream of the final solidarity of mankind is the Pauline anacefaleosis and apocatastasis.
We Christians, said the Apostle (I Cor. xii. 27) are the body of Christ, members of Him, flesh
of His flesh and bone of His bone (Eph. v. 30), branches of the vine.

But in this final solidarization, in this true and supreme Christination of all creatures,
what becomes of each individual consciousness? what becomes of Me, of this poor fragile I,
this I that is the slave of time and space, this I which reason tells me is a mere passing
accident, but for the saving of which I live and suffer and hope and believe? Granting that
the human finality of the Universe is saved, that consciousness is saved, would I resign myself
to make the sacrifice of this poor I, by which and by which alone I know this finality and
this consciousness?

And here, facing this supreme religious sacrifice, we reach the summit of the tragedy, the
very heart of it--the sacrifice of our own individual consciousness upon the altar of the perfected
Human Consciousness, of the Divine Consciousness.

But is there really a tragedy? If we could attain to a clear vision of this anacefaleosis,
if we could succeed in understanding and feeling that we were going to enrich Christ, should
we hesitate for a moment in surrendering ourselves utterly to Him? Would the stream that flows
into the sea, and feels in the freshness of its waters the bitterness of the salt of the ocean,
wish to flow back to its source? would it wish to return to the cloud which drew its life from
the sea? is not its joy to feel itself absorbed?

And yet....

Yes, in spite of everything, this is the climax of the tragedy.

And the soul, my soul at least, longs for something else, not absorption, not quietude, not
peace, not appeasement, it longs ever to approach and never to arrive, it longs for a never-ending
longing, for an eternal hope which is eternally renewed but never wholly fulfilled. And together
with all this, it longs for an eternal lack of something and an eternal suffering. A suffering,
a pain, thanks to which it grows without ceasing in consciousness and in longing. Do not write
upon the gate of heaven that sentence which Dante placed over the threshold of hell, Lasciate
ogni speranza! Do not destroy time! Our life is a hope which is continually converting itself
into memory and memory in its turn begets hope. Give us leave to live! The eternity that is
like an eternal present, without memory and without hope, is death. Thus do ideas exist, but
not thus do men live. Thus do ideas exist in the God-Idea, but not thus can men live in the
living God, in the God-Man.

An eternal purgatory, then, rather than a heaven of glory; an eternal ascent. If there is an
end of all suffering, however pure and spiritualized we may suppose it to be, if there is an
end of all desire, what is it that makes the blessed in paradise go on living? If in paradise
they do not suffer for want of God, how shall they love Him? And if even there, in the heaven
of glory, while they behold God little by little and closer and closer, yet without ever wholly
attaining to Him, there does not always remain something more for them to know and desire,
if there does not always remain a substratum of doubt, how shall they not fall asleep?

Or, to sum up, if in heaven there does not remain something of this innermost tragedy of the
soul, what sort of a life is that? Is there perhaps any greater joy than that of remembering
misery--and to remember it is to feel it--in time of felicity? Does not the prison haunt the
freed prisoner? Does he not miss his former dreams of liberty?

       *       *       *       *       *

Mythological dreams! it will be said. And I have not pretended that they are anything else.
But has not the mythological dream its content of truth? Are not dream and myth perhaps revelations
of an inexpressible truth, of an irrational truth, of a truth that cannot be proven?

Mythology! Perhaps; but, as in the days of Plato, we must needs mythologize when we come to
deal with the other life. But we have just seen that whenever we seek to give a form that is
concrete, conceivable, or in other words, rational, to our primary, primordial, and fundamental
longing for an eternal life conscious of itself and of its personal individuality, esthetic,
logical, and ethical absurdities are multiplied and there is no way of conceiving the beatific
vision and the apocatastasis that is free from contradictions and inconsistencies.

And nevertheless!...

Nevertheless, yes, we must needs long for it, however absurd it may appear to us; nay, more,
we must needs believe in it, in some way or another, in order that we may live. In order that
we may live, eh? not in order that we may understand the Universe. We must needs believe in
it, and to believe in it is to be religious. Christianity, the only religion which we Europeans
of the twentieth century are really capable of feeling, is, as Kierkegaard said, a desperate
sortie (Afsluttende uvidenskabelig Efterskrift, ii., i., cap. i.), a sortie which can be successful
only by means of the martyrdom of faith, which is, according to this same tragic thinker, the
crucifixion of reason.

Not without reason did he who had the right to do so speak of the foolishness of the cross.
Foolishness, without doubt, foolishness. And the American humorist, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
was not altogether wide of the mark in making one of the characters in his ingenious conversations
say that he thought better of those who were confined in a lunatic asylum on account of religious
mania than of those who, while professing the same religious principles, kept their wits and
appeared to enjoy life very well outside of the asylums.[53] But those who are at large, are
they not really, thanks to God, mad too? Are there not mild madnesses, which not only permit
us to mix with our neighbours without danger to society, but which rather enable us to do so,
for by means of them we are able to attribute a meaning and finality to life and society themselves?

And after all, what is madness and how can we distinguish it from reason, unless we place ourselves
outside both the one and the other, which for us is impossible?

Madness perhaps it is, and great madness, to seek to penetrate into the mystery of the Beyond;
madness to seek to superimpose the self-contradictory dreams of our imagination upon the dictates
of a sane reason. And a sane reason tells us that nothing can be built up without foundations,
and that it is not merely an idle but a subversive task to fill the void of the unknown with
fantasies. And nevertheless....

We must needs believe in the other life, in the eternal life beyond the grave, and in an individual
and personal life, in a life in which each one of us may feel his consciousness and fed that
it is united, without being confounded, with all other consciousnesses in the Supreme Consciousness,
in God; we must needs believe in that other life in order that we may live this life, and endure
it, and give it meaning and finality. And we must needs believe in that other life, perhaps,
in order that we may deserve it, in order that we may obtain it, for it may be that he neither
deserves it nor will obtain it who does not passionately desire it above reason and, if need
be, against reason.

And above all, we must feel and act as if an endless continuation of our earthly life awaited
us after death; and if it be that nothingness is the fate that awaits us we must not, in the
words of Obermann, so act that it shall be a just fate.

And this leads us directly to the examination of the practical or ethical aspect of our sole
problem.

FOOTNOTES:

[47] De natura deorum, lib. i., cap. 41.

[48] Op. cit.

[49] Guía Espiritual que desembaraza al alma y la conduce por el interior camino para alcanzar
la perfecta contemplación y el rico tesoro de la paz interior, book iii., chap. xviii., § 185.

[50]

    O land of Alvargonzález,
    In the heart of Spain,
    Sad land, poor land,
    So sad that it has a soul!

[51]

    To living a life of blessed quiet here on earth,
    Either matter or soul is a hindrance.

[52] Eso que llaman derecho penal, y que es todo menos derecho.

[53] The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.

XI

THE PRACTICAL PROBLEM

     L'homme est périssable.

Several times in the devious course of these essays I have defined, in spite of my horror of
definitions, my own position with regard to the problem that I have been examining; but I know
there will always be some dissatisfied reader, educated in some dogmatism or other, who will
say: "This man comes to no conclusion, he vacillates--now he seems to affirm one thing and
then its contrary--he is full of contradictions--I can't label him. What is he?" Just this--one
who affirms contraries, a man of contradiction and strife, as Jeremiah said of himself; one
who says one thing with his heart and the contrary with his head, and for whom this conflict
is the very stuff of life. And that is as clear as the water that flows from the melted snow
upon the mountain tops.

I shall be told that this is an untenable position, that a foundation must be laid upon which
to build our action and our works, that it is impossible to live by contradictions, that unity
and clarity are essential conditions of life and thought, and that it is necessary to unify
thought. And this leaves us as we were before. For it is precisely this inner contradiction
that unifies my life and gives it its practical purpose.

Or rather it is the conflict itself, it is this self-same passionate uncertainty, that unifies
my action and makes me live and work.

We think in order that we may live, I have said; but perhaps it were more correct to say that
we think because we live, and the form of our thought corresponds with that of our life. Once
more I must repeat that our ethical and philosophical doctrines in general are usually merely
the justification a posteriori of our conduct, of our actions. Our doctrines are usually the
means we seek in order to explain and justify to others and to ourselves our own mode of action.
And this, be it observed, not merely for others, but for ourselves. The man who does not really
know why he acts as he does and not otherwise, feels the necessity of explaining to himself
the motive of his action and so he forges a motive. What we believe to be the motives of our
conduct are usually but the pretexts for it. The very same reason which one man may regard
as a motive for taking care to prolong his life may be regarded by another man as a motive
for shooting himself.

Nevertheless it cannot be denied that reasons, ideas, have an influence upon human actions,
and sometimes even determine them, by a process analogous to that of suggestion upon a hypnotized
person, and this is so because of the tendency in every idea to resolve itself into action--an
idea being simply an inchoate or abortive act. It was this notion that suggested to Fouillée
his theory of idea-forces. But ordinarily ideas are forces which we accommodate to other forces,
deeper and much less conscious.

But putting all this aside for the present, what I wish to establish is that uncertainty, doubt,
perpetual wrestling with the mystery of our final destiny, mental despair, and the lack of
any solid and stable dogmatic foundation, may be the basis of an ethic.

He who bases or thinks that he bases his conduct--his inward or his outward conduct, his feeling
or his action--upon a dogma or theoretical principle which he deems incontrovertible, runs
the risk of becoming a fanatic, and moreover, the moment that this dogma is weakened or shattered,
the morality based upon it gives way. If, the earth that he thought firm begins to rock, he
himself trembles at the earthquake, for we do not all come up to the standard of the ideal
Stoic who remains undaunted among the ruins of a world shattered into atoms. Happily the stuff
that is underneath a man's ideas will save him. For if a man should tell you that he does not
defraud or cuckold his best friend only because he is afraid of hell, you may depend upon it
that neither would he do so even if he were to cease to believe in hell, but that he would
invent some other excuse instead. And this is all to the honour of the human race.

But he who believes that he is sailing, perhaps without a set course, on an unstable and sinkable
raft, must not be dismayed if the raft gives way beneath his feet and threatens to sink. Such
a one thinks that he acts, not because he deems his principle of action to be true, but in
order to make it true, in order to prove its truth, in order to create his own spiritual world.

My conduct must be the best proof, the moral proof, of my supreme desire; and if I do not end
by convincing myself, within the bounds of the ultimate and irremediable uncertainty, of the
truth of what I hope for, it is because my conduct is not sufficiently pure. Virtue, therefore,
is not based upon dogma, but dogma upon virtue, and it is not faith that creates martyrs but
martyrs who create faith. There is no security or repose--so far as security and repose are
obtainable in this life, so essentially insecure and unreposeful--save in conduct that is passionately
good.

Conduct, practice, is the proof of doctrine, theory. "If any man will do His will--the will
of Him that sent me," said Jesus, "he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether
I speak of myself" (John vii. 17); and there is a well-known saying of Pascal: "Begin by taking
holy water and you will end by becoming a believer." And pursuing a similar train of thought,
Johann Jakob Moser, the pietist, was of the opinion that no atheist or naturalist had the right
to regard the Christian religion as void of truth so long as he had not put it to the proof
by keeping its precepts and commandments (Ritschl, Geschichte des Pietismus, book vii., 43).

What is our heart's truth, anti-rational though it be? The immortality of the human soul, the
truth of the persistence of our consciousness without any termination whatsoever, the truth
of the human finality of the Universe. And what is its moral proof? We may formulate it thus:
Act so that in your own judgement and in the judgement of others you may merit eternity, act
so that you may become irreplaceable, act so that you may not merit death. Or perhaps thus:
Act as if you were to die to-morrow, but to die in order to survive and be eternalized. The
end of morality is to give personal, human finality to the Universe; to discover the finality
that belongs to it--if indeed it has any finality--and to discover it by acting.

More than a century ago, in 1804, in Letter XC of that series that constitutes the immense
monody of his Obermann, Sénancour wrote the words which I have put at the head of this chapter--and
of all the spiritual descendants of the patriarchal Rousseau, Sénancour was the most profound
and the most intense; of all the men of heart and feeling that France has produced, not excluding
Pascal, he was the most tragic. "Man is perishable. That may be; but let us perish resisting,
and if it is nothingness that awaits us, do not let us so act that it shall be a just fate."
Change this sentence from its negative to the positive form--"And if it is nothingness that
awaits us, let us so act that it shall be an unjust fate"--and you get the firmest basis of
action for the man who cannot or will not be a dogmatist.

That which is irreligious and demoniacal, that which incapacitates us for action and leaves
us without any ideal defence against our evil tendencies, is the pessimism that Goethe puts
into the mouth of Mephistopheles when he makes him say, "All that has achieved existence deserves
to be destroyed" (denn alles was ensteht ist wert doss es zugrunde geht). This is the pessimism
which we men call evil, and not that other pessimism that consists in lamenting what it fears
to be true and struggling against this fear--namely, that everything is doomed to annihilation
in the end. Mephistopheles asserts that everything that exists deserves to be destroyed, annihilated,
but not that everything will be destroyed or annihilated; and we assert that everything that
exists deserves to be exalted and eternalized, even though no such fate is in store for it.
The moral attitude is the reverse of this.

Yes, everything deserves to be eternalized, absolutely everything, even evil itself, for that
which we call evil would lose its evilness in being eternalized, because it would lose its
temporal nature. For the essence of evil consists in its temporal nature, in its not applying
itself to any ultimate and permanent end.

And it might not be superfluous here to say something about that distinction, more overlaid
with confusion than any other, between what we are accustomed to call optimism and pessimism,
a confusion not less than that which exists with regard to the distinction between individualism
and socialism. Indeed, it is scarcely possible to form a clear idea as to what pessimism really is.

I have just this very day read in the Nation (July 6, 1912) an article, entitled "A Dramatic
Inferno," that deals with an English translation of the works of Strindberg, and it opens with
the following judicious observations: "If there were in the world a sincere and total pessimism,
it would of necessity be silent. The despair which finds a voice is a social mood, it is the
cry of misery which brother utters to brother when both are stumbling through a valley of shadows
which is peopled with--comrades. In its anguish it bears witness to something that is good
in life, for it presupposes sympathy ... The real gloom, the sincere despair, is dumb and blind;
it writes no books, and feels no impulse to burden an intolerable universe with a monument
more lasting than brass." Doubtless there is something of sophistry in this criticism, for
the man who is really in pain weeps and even cries aloud, even if he is alone and there is
nobody to hear him, simply as a means of alleviating his pain, although this perhaps may be
a result of social habits. But does not the lion, alone in the desert, roar if he has an aching
tooth? But apart from this, it cannot be denied that there is a substance of truth underlying
these remarks. The pessimism that protests and defends itself cannot be truly said to be pessimism.
And, in truth, still less is it pessimism to hold that nothing ought to perish although all
things may be doomed to annihilation, while on the other hand it is pessimism to affirm that
all things ought to be annihilated even though nothing may perish.

Pessimism, moreover, may possess different values. There is a eudemonistic or economic pessimism,
that which denies happiness; there is an ethical pessimism, that which denies the triumph of
moral good; and there is a religious pessimism, that which despairs of the human finality of
the Universe, of the eternal salvation of the individual soul.

All men deserve to be saved, but, as I have said in the previous chapter, he above all deserves
immortality who desires it passionately and even in the face of reason. An English writer,
H.G. Wells, who has taken upon himself the rôle of the prophet (a thing not uncommon in his
country), tells us in Anticipations that "active and capable men of all forms of religious
profession tend in practice to disregard the question of immortality altogether." And this
is because the religious professions of these active and capable men to whom Wells refers are
usually simply a lie, and their lives are a lie, too, if they seek to base them upon religion.
But it may be that at bottom there is not so much truth in what Wells asserts as he and others
imagine. These active and capable men live in the midst of a society imbued with Christian
principles, surrounded by institutions and social feelings that are the product of Christianity,
and faith in the immortality of the soul exists deep down in their own souls like a subterranean
river, neither seen nor heard, but watering the roots of their deeds and their motives.

It must be admitted that there exists in truth no more solid foundation for morality than the
foundation of the Catholic ethic. The end of man is eternal happiness, which consists in the
vision and enjoyment of God in sæcula sæculorum. Where it errs, however, is in the choice of
the means conducive to this end; for to make the attainment of eternal happiness dependent
upon believing or not believing in the Procession of the Holy Ghost from the Father and the
Son and not from the Father alone, or in the Divinity of Jesus, or in the theory of the Hypostatic
Union, or even in the existence of God, is, as a moment's reflection will show, nothing less
than monstrous. A human God--and that is the only kind of God we are able to conceive--would
never reject him who was unable to believe in Him with his head, and it is not in his head
but in his heart that the wicked man says that there is no God, which is equivalent to saying
that he wishes that there may not be a God. If any belief could be bound up with the attainment
of eternal happiness it would be the belief in this happiness itself and in the possibility of it.

And what shall we say of that other proposition of the king of pedants, to the effect that
we have not come into the world to be happy but to fulfil our duty (Wir sind nicht auf der
Welt, um glücklich zu sein, sondern um unsere Schuldigkeit zu tun)? If we are in the world
for something (um etwas), whence can this for be derived but from the very essence of our own
will, which asks for happiness and not duty as the ultimate end? And if it is sought to attribute
some other value to this for, an objective value, as some Sadducean pedant would say, then
it must be recognized that the objective reality, that which would remain even though humanity
should disappear, is as indifferent to our duty as to our happiness, is as little concerned
with our morality as with our felicity. I am not aware that Jupiter, Uranus, or Sirius would
allow their course to be affected by the fact that we are or are not fulfilling our duty any
more than by the fact that we are or are not happy.

Such considerations must appear to these pedants to be characterized by a ridiculous vulgarity
and a dilettante superficiality. (The intellectual world is divided into two classes--dilettanti
on the one hand, and pedants on the other.) What choice, then, have we? The modern man is he
who resigns himself to the truth and is content to be ignorant of the synthesis of culture--witness
what Windelband says on this head in his study of the fate of Hölderlin (Praeludien, i.). Yes,
these men of culture are resigned, but there remain a few poor savages like ourselves for whom
resignation is impossible. We do not resign ourselves to the idea of having one day to disappear,
and the criticism of the great Pedant does not console us.

The quintessence of common sense was expressed by Galileo Galilei when he said: "Some perhaps
will say that the bitterest pain is the loss of life, but I say that there are others more
bitter; for whosoever is deprived of life is deprived at the same time of the power to lament,
not only this, but any other loss whatsoever." Whether Galileo was conscious or not of the
humour of this sentence I do not know, but it is a tragic humour.

But, to turn back, I repeat that if the attainment of eternal happiness could be bound up with
any particular belief, it would be with the belief in the possibility of its realization. And
yet, strictly speaking, not even with this. The reasonable man says in his head, "There is
no other life after this," but only the wicked says it in his heart. But since the wicked man
is possibly only a man who has been driven to despair, will a human God condemn him because
of his despair? His despair alone is misfortune enough.

But in any event let us adopt the Calderónian formula in La Vida es Sueño:

    Que estoy soñando y que quiero
    obrar hacer bien, pues no se pierde
    el hacer bien aun en sueños[54]

But are good deeds really not lost? Did Calderón know? And he added:

    Acudamos a lo eterno
    que es la fama vividora
    donde ni duermen las dichas
    no las grandezas reposan[55]

Is it really so? Did Calderón know?

Calderón had faith, robust Catholic faith; but for him who lacks faith, for him who cannot
believe in what Don Pedro Calderón de la Barca believed, there always remains the attitude
of Obermann.

If it is nothingness that awaits us, let us make an injustice of it; let us fight against destiny,
even though without hope of victory; let us fight against it quixotically.

And not only do we fight against destiny in longing for what is irrational, but in acting in
such a way that we make ourselves irreplaceable, in impressing our seal and mark upon others,
in acting upon our neighbours in order to dominate them, in giving ourselves to them in order
that we may eternalize ourselves so far as we can.

Our greatest endeavour must be to make ourselves irreplaceable; to make the theoretical fact--if
this expression does not involve a contradiction in terms--the fact that each one of us is
unique and irreplaceable, that no one else can fill the gap that will be left when we die,
a practical truth.

For in fact each man is unique and irreplaceable; there cannot be any other I; each one of
us--our soul, that is, not our life--is worth the whole Universe. I say the spirit and not
the life, for the ridiculously exaggerated value which those attach to human life who, not
really believing in the spirit--that is to say, in their personal immortality--tirade against
war and the death penalty, for example, is a value which they attach to it precisely because
they do not really believe in the spirit of which life is the servant. For life is of use only
in so far as it serves its lord and master, spirit, and if the master perishes with the servant,
neither the one nor the other is of any great value.

And to act in such a way as to make our annihilation an injustice, in such a way as to make
our brothers, our sons, and our brothers' sons, and their sons' sons, feel that we ought not
to have died, is something that is within the reach of all.

The essence of the doctrine of the Christian redemption is in the fact that he who suffered
agony and death was the unique man--that is, Man, the Son of Man, or the Son of God; that he,
because he was sinless, did not deserve to have died; and that this propitiatory divine victim
died in order that he might rise again and that he might raise us up from the dead, in order
that he might deliver us from death by applying his merits to us and showing us the way of
life. And the Christ who gave himself for his brothers in humanity with an absolute self-abnegation
is the pattern for our action to shape itself on.

All of us, each one of us, can and ought to determine to give as much of himself as he possibly
can--nay, to give more than he can, to exceed himself, to go beyond himself, to make himself
irreplaceable, to give himself to others in order that he may receive himself back again from
them. And each one in his own civil calling or office. The word office, officium, means obligation,
debt, but in the concrete, and that is what it always ought to mean in practice. We ought not
so much to try to seek that particular calling which we think most fitting and suitable for
ourselves, as to make a calling of that employment in which chance, Providence, or our own
will has placed us.

Perhaps Luther rendered no greater service to Christian civilization than that of establishing
the religious value of the civil occupation, of shattering the monastic and medieval idea of
the religious calling, an idea involved in the mist of human passions and imaginations and
the cause of terrible life tragedies. If we could but enter into the cloister and examine the
religious vocation of those whom the self-interest of their parents had forced as children
into a novice's cell and who had suddenly awakened to the life of the world--if indeed they
ever do awake!--or of those whom their own self-delusions had led into it! Luther saw this
life of the cloister at close quarters and suffered it himself, and therefore he was able to
understand and feel the religious value of the civil calling, to which no man is bound by perpetual
vows.

All that the Apostle said in the fourth chapter of his Epistle to the Ephesians with regard
to the respective functions of Christians in the Church must be transferred and applied to
the civil or non-ecclesiastical life, for to-day among ourselves the Christian--whether he
know it or not, and whether he like it or not--is the citizen, and just as the Apostle exclaimed,
"I am a Roman citizen!" each one of us, even the atheist, might exclaim "I am a Christian!"
And this demands the civilizing, in the sense of dis-ecclesiasticizing, of Christianity, which
was Luther's task, although he himself eventually became the founder of a Church.

There is a common English phrase, "the right man in the right place." To which we might rejoin,
"Cobbler, to thy last!" Who knows what is the post that suits him best and for which he is
most fitted? Does a man himself know it better than others or do they know it better than he?
Who can measure capacities and aptitudes? The religious attitude, undoubtedly, is to endeavour
to make the occupation in which we find ourselves our vocation, and only in the last resort
to change it for another.

This question of the proper vocation is possibly the gravest and most deep-seated of social
problems, that which is at the root of all the others. That which is known par excellence as
the social question is perhaps not so much a problem of the distribution of wealth, of the
products of labour, as a problem of the distribution of avocations, of the modes of production.
It is not aptitude--a thing impossible to ascertain without first putting it to the test and
not always clearly indicated in a man, for with regard to the majority of callings a man is
not born but made--it is not special aptitude, but rather social, political, and customary
reasons that determine a man's occupation. At certain times and in certain countries it is
caste and heredity; at other times and in other places, the guild or corporation; in later
times machinery--in almost all cases necessity; liberty scarcely ever. And the tragedy of it
culminates in those occupations, pandering to evil, in which the soul is sacrificed for the
sake of the livelihood, in which the workman works with the consciousness, not of the uselessness
merely, but of the social perversity, of his work, manufacturing the poison that will kill
him, the weapon, perchance, with which his children will be murdered. This, and not the question
of wages, is the gravest problem.

I shall never forget a scene of which I was a witness that took place on the banks of the river
that flows through Bilbao, my native town. A workman was hammering at something in a shipwright's
yard, working without putting his heart into his work, as if he lacked energy or worked merely
for the sake of getting a wage, when suddenly a woman's voice was heard crying, "Help! help!"
A child had fallen into the river. Instantly the man was transformed. With an admirable energy,
promptitude, and sang-froid he threw off his clothes and plunged into the water to rescue the
drowning infant.

Possibly the reason why there is less bitterness in the agrarian socialist movement than in
that of the towns is that the field labourer, although his wages and his standard of living
are no better than those of the miner or artisan, has a clearer consciousness of the social
value of his work. Sowing corn is a different thing from extracting diamonds from the earth.

And it may be that the greatest social progress consists in a certain indifferentiation of
labour, in the facility for exchanging one kind of work for another, and that other not perhaps
a more lucrative, but a nobler one--for there are degrees of nobility in labour. But unhappily
it is only too seldom that a man who keeps to one occupation without changing is concerned
with making a religious vocation of it, or that the man who changes his occupation for another
does so from any religious motive.

And do you not know cases in which a man, justifying his action on the ground that the professional
organism to which he belongs and in which he works is badly organized and does not function
as it ought, will evade the strict performance of his duty on the pretext that he is thereby
fulfilling a higher duty? Is not this insistence upon the literal carrying out of orders called
disciplinarianism, and do not people speak disparagingly of bureaucracy and the Pharisaism
of public officials? And cases occur not unlike that of an intelligent and studious military
officer who should discover the deficiencies of his country's military organization and denounce
them to his superiors and perhaps to the public--thereby fulfilling his duty--and who, when
on active service, should refuse to carry out an operation which he was ordered to undertake,
believing that there was but scant probability of success or rather certainty of failure, so
long as these deficiencies remained unremedied. He would deserve to be shot. And as for this
question of Pharisaism ...

And there is always a way of obeying an order while yet retaining the command, a way of carrying
out what one believes to be an absurd operation while correcting its absurdity, even though
it involve one's own death. When in my bureaucratic capacity I have come across some legislative
ordinance that has fallen into desuetude because of its manifest absurdity, I have always endeavoured
to apply it. There is nothing worse than a loaded pistol which nobody uses left lying in some
corner of the house; a child finds it, begins to play with it, and kills its own father. Laws
that have fallen into desuetude are the most terrible of all laws, when the cause of the desuetude
is the badness of the law.

And these are not groundless suppositions, and least of all in our country. For there are many
who, while they go about looking out for I know not what ideal--that is to say, fictitious
duties and responsibilities--neglect the duty of putting their whole soul into the immediate
and concrete business which furnishes them with a living; and the rest, the immense majority,
perform their task perfunctorily, merely for the sake of nominally complying with their duty--para
cumplir, a terribly immoral phrase--in order to get themselves out of a difficulty, to get
the job done, to qualify for their wages without earning them, whether these wages be pecuniary
or otherwise.

Here you have a shoemaker who lives by making shoes, and makes them with just enough care and
attention to keep his clientèle together without losing custom. Another shoemaker lives on
a somewhat higher spiritual plane, for he has a proper love for his work, and out of pride
or a sense of honour strives for the reputation of being the best shoemaker in the town or
in the kingdom, even though this reputation brings him no increase of custom or profit, but
only renown and prestige. But there is a still higher degree of moral perfection in this business
of shoemaking, and that is for the shoemaker to aspire to become for his fellow-townsmen the
one and only shoemaker, indispensable and irreplaceable, the shoemaker who looks after their
footgear so well that they will feel a definite loss when he dies--when he is "dead to them,"
not merely "dead"[56]--and they will feel that he ought not to have died. And this will result
from the fact that in working for them he was anxious to spare them any discomfort and to make
sure that it should not be any preoccupation with their feet that should prevent them from
being at leisure to contemplate the higher truths; he shod them for the love of them and for
the love of God in them--he shod them religiously.

I have chosen this example deliberately, although it may perhaps appear to you somewhat pedestrian.
For the fact is that in this business of shoemaking, the religious, as opposed to the ethical,
sense is at a very low ebb.

Working men group themselves in associations, they form co-operative societies and unions for
defence, they fight very justly and nobly for the betterment of their class; but it is not
clear that these associations have any great influence on their moral attitude towards their
work. They have succeeded in compelling employers to employ only such workmen, and no others,
as the respective unions shall designate in each particular case; but in the selection of those
designated they pay little heed to their technical fitness. Often the employer finds it almost
impossible to dismiss an inefficient workman on account of his inefficiency, for his fellow-workers
take his part. Their work, moreover, is often perfunctory, performed merely as a pretext for
receiving a wage, and instances even occur when they deliberately mishandle it in order to
injure their employer.

In attempting to justify this state of things, it may be said that the employers are a hundred
times more blameworthy than the workmen, for they are not concerned to give a better wage to
the man who does better work, or to foster the general education and technical proficiency
of the workman, or to ensure the intrinsic goodness of the article produced. The improvement
of the product--which, apart from reasons of industrial and mercantile competition, ought to
be in itself and for the good of the consumers, for charity's sake, the chief end of the business--is
not so regarded either by employers or employed, and this is because neither the one nor the
other have any religious sense of their social function. Neither of them seek to make themselves
irreplaceable. The evil is aggravated when the business takes the unhappy form of the impersonal
limited company, for where there is no longer any personal signature there is no longer any
of that pride which seeks to give the signature prestige, a pride which in its way is a substitute
for the craving for eternalization. With the disappearance of the concrete individuality, the
basis of all religion, the religious sense of the business calling disappears also.

And what has been said of employers and workmen applies still more to members of the liberal
professions and public functionaries. There is scarcely a single servant of the State who feels
the religious bearing of his official and public duties. Nothing could be more unsatisfactory,
nothing more confused, than the feeling among our people with regard to their duties towards
the State, and this sense of duty is still further obliterated by the attitude of the Catholic
Church, whose action so far as the State is concerned is in strict truth anarchical. It is
no uncommon thing to find among its ministers upholders of the moral lawfulness of smuggling
and contraband as if in disobeying the legally constituted authority the smuggler and contrabandist
did not sin against the Fourth Commandment of the law of God, which in commanding us to honour
our father and mother commands us to obey all lawful authority in so far as the ordinances
of such authority are not contrary (and the levying of these contributions is certainly not
contrary) to the law of God.

There are many who, since it is written "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread," regard
work as a punishment, and therefore they attribute merely an economico-political, or at best
an esthetic, value to the work of everyday life. For those who take this view--and it is the
view principally held by the Jesuits--the business of life is twofold: there is the inferior
and transitory business of winning a livelihood, of winning bread for ourselves and our children
in an honourable, manner--and the elasticity of this honour is well known; and there is the
grand business of our salvation, of winning eternal glory. This inferior or worldly business
is to be undertaken not only so as to permit us, without deceiving or seriously injuring our
neighbours, to live decently in accordance with our social position, but also so as to afford
us the greatest possible amount of time for attending to the other main business of our life.
And there are others who, rising somewhat above this conception of the work of our civil occupation,
a conception which is economical rather than ethical, attain to an esthetic conception and
sense of it, and this involves endeavouring to acquire distinction and renown in our occupation,
the converting of it into an art for art's sake, for beauty's sake. But it is necessary to
rise still higher than this, to attain to an ethical sense of our civil calling, to a sense
which derives from our religious sense, from our hunger of eternalization. To work at our ordinary
civil occupation, with eyes fixed on God, for the love of God, which is equivalent to saying
for the love of our eternalization, is to make of this work a work of religion.

That saying, "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread," does not mean that God condemned
man to work, but to the painfulness of it. It would have been no condemnation to have condemned
man to work itself, for work is the only practical consolation for having been born. And, for
a Christian, the proof that God did not condemn man to work itself consists in the saying of
the Scripture that, before the Fall, while he was still in a state of innocence, God took man
and put him in the garden "to dress it and to keep it" (Gen. ii. 15). And how, in fact, would
man have passed his time in Paradise if he had had no work to do in keeping it in order? And
may it not be that the beatific vision itself is a kind of work?

And even if work were our punishment, we ought to strive to make it, the punishment itself,
our consolation and our redemption; and if we must needs embrace some cross or other, there
is for each one of us no better cross than the cross of our own civil calling. For Christ did
not say, "Take up my cross and follow me," but "Take up thy cross and follow me": every man
his own cross, for the Saviour's cross the Saviour alone can bear. And the imitation of Christ,
therefore, does not consist in that monastic ideal so shiningly set forth in the book that
commonly bears the name of à Kempis, an ideal only applicable to a very limited number of persons
and therefore anti-Christian; but to imitate Christ is to take up each one his own cross, the
cross of his own civil occupation--civil and not merely religions--as Christ took up his cross,
the cross of his calling, and to embrace it and carry it, looking towards God and striving
to make each act of this calling a true prayer. In making shoes and because he makes them a
man can gain heaven, provided that the shoemaker strives to be perfect, as a shoemaker, as
our Father in heaven is perfect.

Fourier, the socialist dreamer, dreamed of making work attractive in his phalansteries by the
free choice of vocations and in other ways. There is no other way than that of liberty. Wherein
consists the charm of the game of chance, which is a kind of work, if not in the voluntary
submission of the player to the liberty of Nature--that is, to chance? But do not let us lose
ourselves in a comparison between work and play.

And the sense of making ourselves irreplaceable, of not meriting death, of making our annihilation,
if it is annihilation that awaits us, an injustice, ought to impel us not only to perform our
own occupation religiously, from love of God and love of our eternity and eternalization, but
to perform it passionately, tragically if you like. It ought to impel us to endeavour to stamp
others with our seal, to perpetuate ourselves in them and in their children by dominating them,
to leave on all things the imperishable impress of our signature. The most fruitful ethic is
the ethic of mutual imposition.

Above all, we must recast in a positive form the negative commandments which we have inherited
from the Ancient Law. Thus where it is written, "Thou shalt not lie!" let us understand, "Thou
shalt always speak the truth, in season and out of season!" although it is we ourselves, and
not others, who are judges in each case of this seasonableness. And for "Thou shalt not kill!"
let us understand, "Thou shalt give life and increase it!" And for "Thou shalt not steal!"
let us say, "Thou shalt increase the general wealth!" And for "Thou shalt not commit adultery!"
"Thou shalt give children, healthy, strong, and good, to thy country and to heaven!" And thus
with all the other commandments.

He who does not lose his life shall not find it. Give yourself then to others, but in order
to give yourself to them, first dominate them. For it is not possible to dominate except by
being dominated. Everyone nourishes himself upon the flesh of that which he devours. In order
that you may dominate your neighbour you must know and love him. It is by attempting to impose
my ideas upon him that I become the recipient of his ideas. To love my neighbour is to wish
that he may be like me, that he may be another I--that is to say, it is to wish that I may
be he; it is to wish to obliterate the division between him and me, to suppress the evil. My
endeavour to impose myself upon another, to be and live in him and by him, to make him mine--which
is the same as making myself his--is that which gives religious meaning to human collectivity,
to human solidarity.

The feeling of solidarity originates in myself; since I am a society, I feel the need of making
myself master of human society; since I am a social product, I must socialize myself, and from
myself I proceed to God--who is I projected to the All--and from God to each of my neighbours.

My immediate first impulse is to protest against the inquisitor and to prefer the merchant
who comes to offer me his wares. But when my impressions are clarified by reflection, I begin
to see that the inquisitor, when he acts from a right motive, treats me as a man, as an end
in myself, and if he molests me it is from a charitable wish to save my soul; while the merchant,
on the other hand, regards me merely as a customer, as a means to an end, and his indulgence
and tolerance is at bottom nothing but a supreme indifference to my destiny. There is much
more humanity in the inquisitor.

Similarly there is much more humanity in war than in peace. Non-resistance to evil implies
resistance to good, and to take the offensive, leaving the defensive out of the question, is
perhaps the divinest thing in humanity. War is the school of fraternity and the bond of love;
it is war that has brought peoples into touch with one another, by mutual aggression and collision,
and has been the cause of their knowing and loving one another. Human love knows no purer embrace,
or one more fruitful in its consequences, than that between victor and vanquished on the battlefield.
And even the purified hate that springs from war is fruitful. War is, in its strictest sense,
the sanctification of homicide; Cain is redeemed as a leader of armies. And if Cain had not
killed his brother Abel, perhaps he would have died by the hand of Abel. God revealed Himself
above all in war; He began by being the God of battles; and one of the greatest services of
the Cross is that, in the form of the sword-hilt, it protects the hand that wields the sword.

The enemies of the State say that Cain, the fratricide, was the founder of the State. And we
must accept the fact and turn it to the glory of the State, the child of war. Civilization
began on the day on which one man, by subjecting another to his will and compelling him to
do the work of two, was enabled to devote himself to the contemplation of the world and to
set his captive upon works of luxury. It was slavery that enabled Plato to speculate upon the
ideal republic, and it was war that brought slavery about. Not without reason was Athena the
goddess of war and of wisdom. But is there any need to repeat once again these obvious truths,
which, though they have continually been forgotten, are continually rediscovered?

And the supreme commandment that arises out of love towards God, and the foundation of all
morality, is this: Yield yourself up entirely, give your spirit to the end that you may save
it, that you may eternalize it. Such is the sacrifice of life.

The individual quâ individual, the wretched captive of the instinct of preservation and of
the senses, cares only about preserving himself, and all his concern is that others should
not force their way into his sphere, should not disturb him, should not interrupt his idleness;
and in return for their abstention or for the sake of example he refrains from forcing himself
upon them, from interrupting their idleness, from disturbing them, from taking possession of
them. "Do not do unto others what you would not have them do unto you," he translates thus:
I do not interfere with others--let them not interfere with me. And he shrinks and pines and
perishes in this spiritual avarice and this repellent ethic of anarchic individualism: each
one for himself. And as each one is not himself, he can hardly live for himself.

But as soon as the individual feels himself in society, he feels himself in God, and kindled
by the instinct of perpetuation he glows with love towards God, and with a dominating charity
he seeks to perpetuate himself in others, to perennialize his spirit, to eternalize it, to
unnail God, and his sole desire is to seal his spirit upon other spirits and to receive their
impress in return. He has shaken off the yoke of his spiritual sloth and avarice.

Sloth, it is said, is the mother of all the vices; and in fact sloth does engender two vices--avarice
and envy--which in their turn are the source of all the rest. Sloth is the weight of matter,
in itself inert, within us, and this sloth, while it professes to preserve us by economizing
our forces, in reality attenuates us and reduces us to nothing.

In man there is either too much matter or too much spirit, or to put it better, either he feels
a hunger for spirit--that is, for eternity--or he feels a hunger for matter--that is, submission
to annihilation. When spirit is in excess and he feels a hunger for yet more of it, he pours
it forth and scatters it abroad, and in scattering it abroad he amplifies it with that of others;
and on the contrary, when a man is avaricious of himself and thinks that he will preserve himself
better by withdrawing within himself, he ends by losing all--he is like the man who received
the single talent: he buried it in order that he might not lose it, and in the end he was bereft
of it. For to him that hath shall be given, but from him that hath but a little shall be taken
away even the little that he hath.

Be ye perfect even as your Father in heaven is perfect, we are bidden, and this terrible precept--terrible
because for us the infinite perfection of the Father is unattainable--must be our supreme rule
of conduct. Unless a man aspires to the impossible, the possible that he achieves will be scarcely
worth the trouble of achieving. It behoves us to aspire to the impossible, to the absolute
and infinite perfection, and to say to the Father, "Father, I cannot--help Thou my impotence."
And He acting in us will achieve it for us.

And to be perfect is to be all, it is to be myself and to be all else, it is to be humanity,
it is to be the Universe. And there is no other way of being all but to give oneself to all,
and when all shall be in all, all will be in each one of us. The apocatastasis is more than
a mystical dream: it is a rule of action, it is a beacon beckoning us to high exploits.

And from it springs the ethic of invasion, of domination, of aggression, of inquisition if
you like. For true charity is a kind of invasion--it consists in putting my spirit into other
spirits, in giving them my suffering as the food and consolation for their sufferings, in awakening
their unrest with my unrest, in sharpening their hunger for God with my hunger for God. It
is not charity to rock and lull our brothers to sleep in the inertia and drowsiness of matter,
but rather to awaken them to the uneasiness and torment of spirit.

To the fourteen works of mercy which we learnt in the Catechism of Christian Doctrine there
should sometimes be added yet another, that of awakening the sleeper. Sometimes, at any rate,
and surely when the sleeper sleeps on the brink of a precipice, it is much more merciful to
awaken him than to bury him after he is dead--let us leave the dead to bury their dead. It
has been well said, "Whosoever loves thee dearly will make thee weep," and charity often causes
weeping. "The love that does not mortify does not deserve so divine a name," said that ardent
Portuguese apostle, Fr. Thomé de Jesús,[57] who was also the author of this ejaculation--"O
infinite fire, O eternal love, who weepest when thou hast naught to embrace and feed upon and
many hearts to burn!" He who loves his neighbour burns his heart, and the heart, like green
wood, in burning groans and distils itself in tears.

And to do this is generosity, one of the two mother virtues which are born when inertia, sloth,
is overcome. Most of our miseries come from spiritual avarice.

The cure for suffering--which, as we have said, is the collision of consciousness with unconsciousness--is
not to be submerged in unconsciousness, but to be raised to consciousness and to suffer more.
The evil of suffering is cured by more suffering, by higher suffering. Do not take opium, but
put salt and vinegar in the soul's wound, for when you sleep and no longer feel the suffering,
you are not. And to be, that is imperative. Do not then close your eyes to the agonizing Sphinx,
but look her in the face and let her seize you in her mouth and crunch you with her hundred
thousand poisonous teeth and swallow you. And when she has swallowed you, you will know the
sweetness of the taste of suffering.

The way thereto in practice is by the ethic of mutual imposition. Men should strive to impose
themselves upon one another, to give their spirits to one another, to seal one another's souls.

There is matter for thought in the fact that the Christian ethic has been called an ethic of
slaves. By whom? By anarchists! It is anarchism that is an ethic of slaves, for it is only
the slave that chants the praises of anarchical liberty. Anarchism, no! but panarchism; not
the creed of "Nor God nor master!" but that of "All gods and all masters!" all striving to
become gods, to become immortal, and achieving this by dominating others.

And there are so many ways of dominating. There is even a passive way, or one at least that
is apparently passive, of fulfilling at times this law of life. Adaptation to environment,
imitation, putting oneself in another's place, sympathy, in a word, besides being a manifestation
of the unity of the species, is a mode of self-expansion, of being another. To be conquered,
or at least to seem to be conquered, is often to conquer; to take what is another's is a way
of living in him.

And in speaking of domination, I do not mean the domination of the tiger. The fox also dominates
by cunning, and the hare by flight, and the viper by poison, and the mosquito by its smallness,
and the squid by the inky fluid with which it darkens the water and under cover of which it
escapes. And no one is scandalized at this, for the same universal Father who gave its fierceness,
its talons, and its jaws to the tiger, gave cunning to the fox, swift feet to the hare, poison
to the viper, diminutiveness to the mosquito, and its inky fluid to the squid. And nobleness
or ignobleness does not consist in the weapons we use, for every species and even every individual
possesses its own, but rather in the way in which we use them, and above all in the cause in
which we wield them.

And among the weapons of conquest must be included the weapon of patience and of resignation,
but a passionate patience and a passionate resignation, containing within itself an active
principle and antecedent longings.

They also serve who only stand and wait--yes, but it is when they wait for Him passionately,
hungeringly, full of longing for immortality in Him.

And we must impose ourselves, even though it be by our patience. "My cup is small, but I drink
out of my cup," said the egoistical poet of an avaricious people.[58] No, out of my cup all
drink, for I wish all to drink out of it; I offer it to them, and my cup grows according to
the number of those who drink out of it, and all, in putting it to their lips, leave in it
something of their spirit. And while they drink out of my cup, I also drink out of theirs.
For the more I belong to myself, and the more I am myself, the more I belong to others; out
of the fullness of myself I overflow upon my brothers, and as I overflow upon them they enter
into me.

"Be ye perfect, as your Father is perfect," we are bidden, and our Father is perfect because
He is Himself and because He is in each one of His children who live and move and have their
being in Him. And the end of perfection is that we all may be one (John xvii. 21), all one
body in Christ (Rom. xii. 5), and that, at the last, when all things are subdued unto the Son,
the Son himself may be subject to Him that put all things under him, that God may be all in
all. And this is to make the Universe consciousness, to make Nature a society, and a human
society. And then shall we be able confidently to call God Father.

I am aware that those who say that ethics is a science will say that all this commentary of
mine is nothing but rhetoric; but each man has his own language and his own passion--that is
to say, each man who knows what passion is--and as for the man who knows it not, nothing will
it avail him to know science.

And the passion that finds its expression in this rhetoric, the devotees of ethical science
call egotism. But this egotism is the only true remedy for egoism, spiritual avarice, the vice
of preserving and reserving oneself and of not striving to perennialize oneself by giving oneself.

"Be not, and ye shall be mightier than all that is," said Fr. May it not mean paradoxically--and
such a mode of expression is common with the mystics--the contrary of that which, at a first
and literal reading, it would appear to mean? Is not the whole ethic of submission and quietism
an immense paradox, or rather a great tragic contradiction? Is not the monastic, the strictly
monastic, ethic an absurdity? And by the monastic ethic I mean that of the solitary Carthusian,
that of the hermit, who flees from the world--perhaps carrying it with him nevertheless--in
order that he may live quite alone with a God who is lonely as himself; not that of the Dominican
inquisitor who scoured Provence in search of Albigensian hearts to burn.

"Let God do it all," someone will say; but if man folds his arms, God will go to sleep.

This Carthusian ethic and that scientific ethic which is derived from ethical science--oh,
this science of ethics! rational and rationalistic ethics! pedantry of pedantry, all is pedantry!--yes,
this perhaps is egoism and coldness of heart.

There are some who say that they isolate themselves with God in order that they may the better
work out their salvation, their redemption; but since sin is collective, redemption must be
collective also. "The religious is the determination of the whole, and everything outside this
is an illusion of the senses, and that is why the greatest criminal is at bottom innocent,
a good-natured man and a saint" (Kierkegaard, Afsluttende, etc., ii., ii., cap. iv., sect. 2, a).

Are we to understand, on the other hand, that men seek to gain the other, the eternal life,
by renouncing this the temporal life? If the other life is anything, it must be a continuation
of this, and only as such a continuation, more or less purified, is it mirrored in our desire;
and if this is so, such as is this life of time, so will be the life of eternity.

"This world and the other are like the two wives of one husband--if he pleases one he makes
the other envious," said an Arab thinker, quoted by Windelband (Das Heilige, in vol. ii. of
Präludien); but such a thought could only have arisen in the mind of one who had failed to
resolve the tragic conflict between his spirit and the world in a fruitful warfare, a practical
contradiction. "Thy kingdom come" to us; so Christ taught us to pray to the Father, not "May
we come to Thy kingdom"; and according to the primitive Christian belief the eternal life was
to be realized on this earth itself and as a continuation of the earthly life. We were made
men and not angels in order that we might seek our happiness through the medium of this life,
and the Christ of the Christian Faith became, not an angelic, but a human, being, redeeming
us by taking upon himself a real and effective body and not an appearance of one merely. And
according to this same Faith, even the highest of the angelical hierarchy adore the Virgin,
the supreme symbol of terrestrial Humanity. The angelical ideal, therefore, is not the Christian
ideal, and still less is it the human ideal, nor can it be. An angel, moreover, is a neutral
being, without sex and without country.

It is impossible for us to feel the other life, the eternal life, I have already repeated more
than once, as a life of angelical contemplation; it must be a life of action. Goethe said that
"man must believe in immortality, since in his nature he has a right to it." And he added:
"The conviction of our persistence arises in me from the concept of activity. If I work without
ceasing to the end, Nature is obliged (so ist die Natur verpflichtet) to provide me with another
form of existence, since my actual spirit can bear no more." Change Nature to God, and you
have a thought that remains Christian in character, for the first Fathers of the Church did
not believe that the immortality of the soul was a natural gift--that is to say, something
rational--but a divine gift of grace. And that which is of grace is usually, in its essence,
of justice, since justice is divine and gratuitous, not natural. And Goethe added: "I could
begin nothing with an eternal happiness before me, unless new tasks and new difficulties were
given me to overcome." And true it is that there is no happiness in a vacuity of contemplation.

But may there not be some justification for the morality of the hermit, of the Carthusian,
the ethic of the Thebaid? Might we not say, perhaps, that it is necessary to preserve these
exceptional types in order that they may stand as everlasting patterns for mankind? Do not
men breed racehorses, which are useless for any practical kind of work, but which preserve
the purity of the breed and become the sires of excellent hackneys and hunters? Is there not
a luxury of ethics, not less justifiable than any other sort of luxury? But, on the other hand,
is not all this substantially esthetics, and not ethics, still less religion? May not the contemplative,
medieval, monastic ideal be esthetical, and not religious nor even ethical? And after all,
those of the seekers after solitude who have related to us their conversation when they were
alone with God have performed an eternalizing work, they have concerned themselves with the
souls of others. And by this alone, that it has given us an Eckhart, a Seuse, a Tauler, a Ruysbroek,
a Juan de la Cruz, a Catherine of Siena, an Angela of Foligno, a Teresa de Jesús, is the cloister
justified.

But the chief of our Spanish Orders are the Predicadores, founded by Domingo de Guzmán for
the aggressive work of extirpating heresy; the Company of Jesus, a militia with the world as
its field of operations (which explains its history); the order of the Escuelas Pías, also
devoted to a work of an aggressive or invasive nature, that of instruction. I shall certainly
be reminded that the reform of the contemplative Order of the Carmelites which Teresa de Jesús
undertook was a Spanish work. Yes, Spanish it was, and in it men sought liberty.

It was, in fact, the yearning for liberty, for inward liberty, which, in the troubled days
of the Inquisition, led many choice spirits to the cloister. They imprisoned themselves in
order that they might be more free. "Is it not a fine thing that a poor nun of San José can
attain to sovereignty over the whole earth and the elements?" said St. Teresa in her Life.
It was the Pauline yearning for liberty, the longing to shake off the bondage of the external
law, which was then very severe, and, as Maestro Fray Luis de León said, very stubborn.

But did they actually find liberty in the cloister? It is very doubtful if they did, and to-day
it is impossible. For true liberty is not to rid oneself of the external law; liberty is consciousness
of the law. Not he who has shaken off the yoke of the law is free, but he who has made himself
master of the law. Liberty must be sought in the midst of the world, which is the domain of
the law, and of sin, the offspring of the law. That which we must be freed from is sin, which
is collective.

Instead of renouncing the world in order that we may dominate it--and who does not know the
collective instinct of domination of those religious Orders whose members renounce the world?--what
we ought to do is to dominate the world in order that we may be able to renounce it. Not to
seek poverty and submission, but to seek wealth in order that we may use it to increase human
consciousness, and to seek power for the same end.

It is curious that monks and anarchists should be at enmity with each other, when fundamentally
they both profess the same ethic and are related by close ties of kinship. Anarchism tends
to become a kind of atheistic monachism and a religious, rather than an ethical or economico-social,
doctrine. The one party starts from the assumption that man is naturally evil, born in original
sin, and that it is through grace that he becomes good, if indeed he ever does become good;
and the other from the assumption that man is naturally good and is subsequently perverted
by society. And these two theories really amount to the same thing, for in both the individual
is opposed to society, as if the individual had preceded society and therefore were destined
to survive it. And both ethics are ethics of the cloister.

And the fact that guilt is collective must not actuate me to throw mine upon the shoulders
of others, but rather to take upon myself the burden of the guilt of others, the guilt of all
men; not to merge and sink my guilt in the total mass of guilt, but to make this total guilt
my own; not to dismiss and banish my own guilt, but to open the doors of my heart to the guilt
of all men, to centre it within myself and appropriate it to myself. And each one of us ought
to help to remedy the guilt, and just because others do not do so. The fact that society is
guilty aggravates the guilt of each member of it. Thus spoke Mrs. Annie Besant in her autobiography.
Thus spoke theosophy.

The fact that society is guilty aggravates the guilt of each one, and he is most guilty who
most is sensible of the guilt. Christ, the innocent, since he best knew the intensity of the
guilt, was in a certain sense the most guilty. In him the culpability, together with the divinity,
of humanity arrived at the consciousness of itself. Many are wont to be amused when they read
how, because of the most trifling faults, faults at which a man of the world would merely smile,
the greatest saints counted themselves the greatest sinners. But the intensity of the fault
is not measured by the external act, but by the consciousness of it, and an act for which the
conscience of one man suffers acutely makes scarcely any impression on the conscience of another.
And in a saint, conscience may be developed so fully and to such a degree of sensitiveness
that the slightest sin may cause him more remorse than his crime causes the greatest criminal.
And sin rests upon our consciousness of it, it is in him who judges and in so far as he judges.
When a man commits a vicious act believing in good faith that he is doing a virtuous action,
we cannot hold him morally guilty, while on the other hand that man is guilty who commits an
act which he believes to be wrong, even though in itself the act is indifferent or perhaps
beneficent. The act passes away, the intention remains, and the evil of the evil act is that
it corrupts the intention, that in knowingly doing wrong a man is predisposed to go on doing
it, that it blurs the conscience. And doing evil is not the same as being evil. Evil blurs
the conscience, and not only the moral conscience but the general, psychical consciousness.
And everything that exalts and expands consciousness is good, while that which depresses and
diminishes it is evil.

And here we might raise the question which, according to Plato, was propounded by Socrates,
as to whether virtue is knowledge, which is equivalent to asking whether virtue is rational.

The ethicists--those who maintain that ethics is a science, those whom the reading of these
divagations will provoke to exclaim, "Rhetoric, rhetoric, rhetoric!"--would appear to think
that virtue is the fruit of knowledge, of rational study, and that even mathematics help us
to be better men. I do not know, but for my part I feel that virtue, like religion, like the
longing never to die--and all these are fundamentally the same thing--is the fruit of passion.

But, I shall be asked, What then is passion? I do not know, or rather, I know full well, because
I feel it, and since I feel it there is no need for me to define it to myself. Nay, more; I
fear that if I were to arrive at a definition of it, I should cease to feel it and to possess
it. Passion is like suffering, and like suffering it creates its object. It is easier for the
fire to find something to burn than for something combustible to find the fire.

That this may appear empty and sophistical well I know. And I shall also be told that there
is the science of passion and the passion of science, and that it is in the moral sphere that
reason and life unite together.

I do not know, I do not know, I do not know.... And perhaps I may be saying fundamentally the
same thing, although more confusedly, that my imaginary adversaries say, only more clearly,
more definitely, and more rationally, those adversaries whom I imagine in order that I may
have someone to fight. I do not know, I do not know.... But what they say freezes me and sounds
to me as though it proceeded from emptiness of feeling.

And, returning to our former question, Is virtue knowledge?--Is knowledge virtue? For they
are two distinct questions. Virtue may be a science, the science of acting rightly, without
every other science being therefore virtue. The virtue of Machiavelli is a science, and it
cannot be said that his virtu is always moral virtue It is well known, moreover, that the cleverest
and the most learned men are not the best.

No, no, no! Physiology does not teach us how to digest, nor logic how to discourse, nor esthetics
how to feel beauty or express it, nor ethics how to be good. And indeed it is well if they
do not teach us how to be hypocrites; for pedantry, whether it be the pedantry of logic, or
of esthetics, or of ethics, is at bottom nothing but hypocrisy.

Reason perhaps teaches certain bourgeois virtues, but it does not make either heroes or saints.
Perhaps the saint is he who does good not for good's sake, but for God's sake, for the sake
of eternalization.

Perhaps, on the other hand, culture, or as I should say Culture--oh, this culture!--which is
primarily the work of philosophers and men of science, is a thing which neither heroes nor
saints have had any share in the making of. For saints have concerned themselves very little
with the progress of human culture; they have concerned themselves rather with the salvation
of the individual souls of those amongst whom they lived. Of what account in the history of
human culture is our San Juan de la Cruz, for example--that fiery little monk, as culture,
in perhaps somewhat uncultured phrase, has called him--compared with Descartes?

All those saints, burning with religious charity towards their neighbours, hungering for their
own and others' eternalization, who went about burning hearts, inquisitors, it may be--what
have all those saints done for the progress of the science of ethics? Did any of them discover
the categorical imperative, like the old bachelor of Königsberg, who, if he was not a saint,
deserved to be one?

The son of a famous professor of ethics, one who scarcely ever opened his lips without mentioning
the categorical imperative, was lamenting to me one day the fact that he lived in a desolating
dryness of spirit, in a state of inward emptiness. And I was constrained to answer him thus:
"My friend, your father had a subterranean river flowing through his spirit, a fresh current
fed by the beliefs of his early childhood, by hopes in the beyond; and while he thought that
he was nourishing his soul with this categorical imperative or something of that sort, he was
in reality nourishing it with those waters which had their spring in his childish days. And
it may be that to you he has given the flower of his spirit, his rational doctrines of ethics,
but not the root, not the subterranean source, not the irrational substratum."

How was it that Krausism took root here in Spain, while Kantism and Hegelianism did not, although
the two latter systems are much more profound, morally and philosophically, than the first?
Because in transplanting the first, its roots were transplanted with it. The philosophical
thought of a people or a period is, as it were, the flower, the thing that is external and
above ground; but this flower, or fruit if you prefer it, draws its sap from the root of the
plant, and this root, which is in and under the ground, is the religious sense. The philosophical
thought of Kant, the supreme flower of the mental evolution of the Germanic people, has its
roots in the religious feeling of Luther, and it is not possible for Kantism, especially the
practical part of it, to take root and bring forth flower and fruit in peoples who have not
undergone the experience of the Reformation and who perhaps were incapable of experiencing
it. Kantism is Protestant, and we Spaniards are fundamentally Catholic. And if Krause struck
some roots here--more numerous and more permanent than is commonly supposed--it is because
Krause had roots in pietism, and pietism, as Ritschl has demonstrated in his Geschichte des
Pietismus, has specifically Catholic roots and may be described as the irruption, or rather
the persistence, of Catholic mysticism in the heart of Protestant rationalism. And this explains
why not a few Catholic thinkers in Spain became followers of Krause.

And since we Spaniards are Catholic--whether we know it or not, and whether we like it or not--and
although some of us may claim to be rationalists or atheists, perhaps the greatest service
we can render to the cause of culture, and of what is of more value than culture, religiousness--if
indeed they are not the same thing--is in endeavouring to formulate clearly to ourselves this
subconscious, social, or popular Catholicism of ours. And that is what I have attempted to
do in this work.

What I call the tragic sense of life in men and peoples is at any rate our tragic sense of
life, that of Spaniards and the Spanish people, as it is reflected in my consciousness, which
is a Spanish consciousness, made in Spain. And this tragic sense of life is essentially the
Catholic sense of it, for Catholicism, and above all popular Catholicism, is tragic. The people
abhors comedy. When Pilate--the type of the refined gentleman, the superior person, the esthete,
the rationalist if you like--proposes to give the people comedy and mockingly presents Christ
to them, saying, "Behold the man!" the people mutinies and shouts "Crucify him! Crucify him!"
The people does not want comedy but tragedy. And that which Dante, the great Catholic, called
the Divine Comedy, is the most tragical tragedy that has ever been written.

And as I have endeavoured in these essays to exhibit the soul of a Spaniard, and therewithal
the Spanish soul, I have curtailed the number of quotations from Spanish writers, while scattering
with perhaps too lavish a hand those from the writers of other countries. For all human souls
are brother-souls.

And there is one figure, a comically tragic figure, a figure in which is revealed all that
is profoundly tragic in the human comedy, the figure of Our Lord Don Quixote, the Spanish Christ,
who resumes and includes in himself the immortal soul of my people. Perhaps the passion and
death of the Knight of the Sorrowful Countenance is the passion and death of the Spanish people,
its death and resurrection. And there is a Quixotesque philosophy and even a Quixotesque metaphysic,
there is a Quixotesque logic, and also a Quixotesque ethic and a Quixotesque religious sense--the
religious sense of Spanish Catholicism. This is the philosophy, this is the logic, this is
the ethic, this is the religious sense, that I have endeavoured to outline, to suggest rather
than to develop, in this work. To develop it rationally, no; the Quixotesque madness does not
submit to scientific logic.

And now, before concluding and bidding my readers farewell, it remains for me to speak of the
rôle that is reserved for Don Quixote in the modern European tragi-comedy.

Let us see, in the next and last essay, what this may be.

FOOTNOTES:

[54] Act II., Scene 4: "I am dreaming and I wish to act rightly, for good deeds are not lost,
though they be wrought in dreams."

[55] Act III., Scene 10: "Let us aim at the eternal, the glory that does not wane, where bliss
slumbers not and where greatness does not repose."

[56] "Se les muera," y no sólo "se muera."

[57] Trabalhos de Jesus, part i.

[58] De Musset.

CONCLUSION

DON QUIXOTE IN THE CONTEMPORARY EUROPEAN TRAGI-COMEDY

"A voice crying in the wilderness!"--ISA. xl. 3.

Need is that I bring to a conclusion, for the present at any rate, these essays that threaten
to become like a tale that has no ending. They have gone straight from my hands to the press
in the form of a kind of improvization upon notes collected during a number of years, and in
writing each essay I have not had before me any of those that preceded it. And thus they will
go forth full of inward contradictions--apparent contradictions, at any rate--like life and
like me myself.

My sin, if any, has been that I have embellished them to excess with foreign quotations, many
of which will appear to have been dragged in with a certain degree of violence. But I will
explain this another time.

A few years after Our Lord Don Quixote had journeyed through Spain, Jacob Böhme declared in
his Aurora (chap xi., § 142) that he did not write a story or history related to him by others,
but that he himself had had to stand in the battle, which he found to be full of heavy strivings,
and wherein he was often struck down to the ground like all other men; and a little further
on (§ 152) he adds: "Although I must become a spectacle of scorn to the world and the devil,
yet my hope is in God concerning the life to come; in Him will I venture to hazard it and not
resist or strive against the Spirit. Amen." And like this Quixote of the German intellectual
world, neither will I resist the Spirit.

And therefore I cry with the voice of one crying in the wilderness, and I send forth my cry
from this University of Salamanca, a University that arrogantly styled itself omnium scientiarum
princeps, and which Carlyle called a stronghold of ignorance and which a French man of letters
recently called a phantom University; I send it forth from this Spain--"the land of dreams
that become realities, the rampart of Europe, the home of the knightly ideal," to quote from
a letter which the American poet Archer M. Huntington sent me the other day--from this Spain
which was the head and front of the Counter-Reformation in the sixteenth century. And well
they repay her for it!

In the fourth of these essays I spoke of the essence of Catholicism. And the chief factors
in de-essentializing it--that is, in de-Catholicizing Europe--have been the Renaissance, the
Reformation, and the Revolution, which for the ideal of an eternal, ultra-terrestrial life,
have substituted the ideal of progress, of reason, of science, or, rather, of Science with
the capital letter. And last of all, the dominant ideal of to-day, comes Culture.

And in the second half of the nineteenth century, an age essentially unphilosophical and technical,
dominated by a myopic specialism and by historical materialism, this ideal took a practical
form, not so much in the popularization as in the vulgarization of science--or, rather, of
pseudo-science--venting itself in a flood of cheap, popular, and propagandist literature. Science
sought to popularize itself as if it were its function to come down to the people and subserve
their passions, and not the duty of the people to rise to science and through science to rise
to higher heights, to new and profounder aspirations.

All this led Brunetière to proclaim the bankruptcy of science, and this science--if you like
to call it science--did in effect become bankrupt. And as it failed to satisfy, men continued
their quest for happiness, but without finding it, either in wealth, or in knowledge, or in
power, or in pleasure, or in resignation, or in a good conscience, or in culture. And the result
was pessimism.

Neither did the gospel of progress satisfy. What end did progress serve? Man would not accommodate
himself to rationalism; the Kulturkampf did not suffice him; he sought to give a final finality
to life, and what I call the final finality is the real hontôs hon. And the famous maladie
du siècle, which announced itself in Rousseau and was exhibited more plainly in Sénancour's
Obermann than in any other character, neither was nor is anything else but the loss of faith
in the immortality of the soul, in the human finality of the Universe.

The truest symbol of it is to be found in a creation of fiction, Dr. Faustus.

