2.  Her heart, her deep, strong, tender heart, is present on every page of Christiana's noble
history.  Her heart keeps her often silent when the water in her eyes becomes all the more
eloquent.  When she does let her heart utter itself in words, her words are fine and memorable.
As, for one instance, after Greatheart's discourse on redemption.  But it was not so much what
she said herself that brought out the depth and tenderness of Christiana's heart, it was rather
the way her heart loosened other people's tongues. You must all have felt how some people's
presence straitens your heart and sews up your mouth.  While there are other people, again,
whose simple presence unseals your heart and makes you eloquent.  We ministers keenly feel
that both in our public and in our private ministrations. There are people in whose hard and
chilling presence we cannot even say grace as we should say it.  Whereas, we all know other
people, people of a heart, that is, whose presence somehow so touches our lips that we always
when near them rise far above ourselves.  Christiana did not speak much to her guides and instructors
and companions, but they always spoke their best to her, and it was her heart that did it.

3.  And then a widow indeed is just a true and genuine widow; a widow not in her name and in
her weeds only, but still more in her deep heart, in her whole life, and in her garnered experience.
"Honour widows that are widows indeed.  Now, she that is a widow indeed and desolate, trusteth
in God, and continueth in supplications and in prayers night and day. These are the true marks
and seals and occupations of a widow indeed.  And if she has had unparalleled trials and irreparable
losses, she has her corresponding consolations and compensations.  For she has a freedom to
go about and do good, a liberty and an experience that neither the unmarried maiden nor the
married wife can possibly have.  She can do multitudes of things that in the nature of things
neither of them can attempt to do.  Things that would be both unseemly and impossible for other
women to say or to do are both perfectly seemly and wholly open for her to say and to do. 
Her widowhood is a sacred shield to her.  Her sorrow is a crown of honour and a sceptre of
authority to her.  She is consulted by the young and the inexperienced, by the forsaken and
by the forlorn, as no other human being ever is.  She has come through this life, and by a
long experience she knows this world and the hearts that fill it and make it what it is.  A
widow indeed can show a sympathy, and give a counsel, and speak with a weight of wisdom that
one's own mother cannot always do.  All you who by God's sad dispensation are now clothed in
the "white and wimpled folds" of widowhood, let your prayer and your endeavour day and night
be that God would guide and enable you to be widows indeed.  And, if you do, you shall want
neither your occupation nor your honour.

THE ENCHANTED GROUND

   "Surely there is no enchantment against Jacob, neither is there any
   divination against Israel."--Balaam.  Nor was there on all
this ground so much as one inn or victualling-house wherein to refresh
the feebler sort.  It also
had a soft couch on which the weary might lean.  This arbour was called
The Slothful Man's Friend, on purpose to allure, if it might be, some of
the pilgrims there to take up their rest when weary.  This, you must
think, all things considered, was tempting.  I saw in my dream also that
they went on in this their solitary way till they came to a place at
which a man is very apt to lose his way.  Then I thought with myself, who that goeth on
pilgrimage but would have one of those maps about him, that he may look
when he is at a stand, which is the way to take?"

1.  "But what is the meaning of all this?" asked Christiana of the guide.  "That masterpiece
of Bunyan's insight into life, the Enchanted Ground," says Mr. Louis Stevenson, "where his
allegory cuts so deep to people looking seriously on life."  Yes, indeed, Bunyan's insight
into life!  And his allegory that cuts so deep!  For a neophyte, and one with little insight
into life, or into himself, would go to look for this land of darkness and thorns and pitfalls,
alternated with arbours and settles and soft couches--one new to life and to himself, I say,
would naturally expect to see all that confined to the region between the City of Destruction
and the Slough of Despond; or, at the worst, long before, and never after, the House Beautiful.
But Bunyan looked too straight at life and too unflinchingly into his own heart to lay down
his sub-Celestial lands in that way; and when we begin to look with a like seriousness on the
religious life, and especially when we begin to look bold enough and deep enough into our own
heart, then we too shall freely acknowledge the splendid master-stroke of Bunyan in the Enchanted
Ground.  That this so terrible experience is laid down almost at the end of the Celestial way--the
blaze of light that pours upon our heads fairly startles us, while at the same time it comforts
us and assures us.  That this Enchanted Ground, which has proved so fatal to so many false
pilgrims, and so all but fatal to so many true pilgrims, should lie around the very borders
of Beulah, and should be within all but eye-shot of the Celestial City itself,--that is something
to be thankful for, and something to lay up in the deepest and the most secret place in our
heart.  That these pilgrims, after all their feastings and entertainments--after the Delectable
Mountains and the House Beautiful--should all be plunged upon a land where there was not so
much as a roadside inn, where the ways were so dark and so long that the pilgrims had to shout
aloud in order to keep together, where, instead of moon or stars, they had to walk in the spark
of a small tinder-box--what an encouragement and assurance to us is all that!  That is no strange
thing, then, that is now happening to us, when, after our fine communion season, we have suddenly
fallen back into this deep darkness, and are cast into these terrible temptations, and feel
as if all our past experiences and attainments and enjoyments had been but a self-delusion
and a snare.  That we should all but have fallen fast asleep, and all but have ceased both
from watching against sin and from waiting upon God--well, that is nothing more than Hopeful
himself would have done had he not had a wary old companion to watch over him, and to hold
his eyes open.  Let all God's people present who feel that they are nothing better of all they
have enjoyed of Scriptures and sacraments, but rather worse; let all those who feel sure that
they have wandered into a castaway land, so dark, so thorny, so miry, and so lonely is their
life--let them read this masterpiece of John Bunyan again and again and take heart of hope.

2.  But far worse than all its briars and thorns, far more fatal than all its ditches and pitfalls,
were the enchanted arbours they came on here and there planted up and down that evil land.
For those arbours are all of this fatal nature, that if a man falls asleep in any of them it
arises a question whether he shall ever come to himself again in this world. Now, where there
are no inns nor victualling-houses, no Gaius and no Mr. Mnason, what a danger all those ill-intended
arbours scattered all up and down that country become!  Well, then, the first enchanted arbour
that the pilgrims came to was built just inside the borders of the land, and it was called
The Stranger's Arbour--so many new-comers had lain down in it never to rise again.  The young
and the inexperienced, with those who were naturally of a believing, buoyant, easy mind, lay
down in hundreds here.  Hopeful's mind was naturally a mind of a soft and easy and self- indulgent
cast; and had he been alone that day, or had he had for a companion a man of a less wary, less
anxious, and less urgent mind than Christian was, Hopeful had taken a nap, as he so confidingly
called it--a fatal nap in that arbour built by the enemy of pilgrims, just on purpose for the
young and the ignorant, the inexperienced and the self-indulgent.

3.  The Slothful Man's Arbour has been already described.  It was a warm arbour, and it promised
much refreshing to the pilgrims.  It also had in it a soft couch on which the weary might lean.
"Let us lie down here and take just one nap; we shall be refreshed if we take a nap!"  Now,
what is a nap?  And what is it to take a nap in our religion?  The New Testament is full of
warnings to those who read it and go by it--most solemn and most fearful warnings--against
sleep.  Now, have you any clear idea in your minds as to what this divinely denounced sleep
is?  Sleep is good and necessary in our bodily life.  We would not live long if we did not
sleep; we would soon go out of our mind; we would soon lose our senses if we did not sleep.
Insomnia is one of the worst symptoms of our eager, restless, over-worked age.  "He giveth
His beloved sleep"; and while they sleep their corn grows they know not how.  But sleep in
the great exhortation-passages of the Holy Scriptures does not mean rest and restoration; it
means in all those passages insensibility, stupidity, danger, and death.  In our nightly sleep,
and in the measure of its soundness, we are utterly dead to the world around us.  Men may come
into our house and rob us of our most precious possessions; they may even come up to our bed
and murder us; our whole house may be in a blaze about us; we may only awaken to leap out of
sleep into eternity.  Now, we are all in a sleep like that in our souls.  There is above us,
and around us, and beneath us, and within us the eternal world, and we are all sound asleep;
we are all stone-dead in the midst of it.  Devils and wicked men are stealing our treasures
for eternity, and we are sound asleep; hell is already kindling our bed beneath us, but we
smell not its flames, or we only catch the first gasp of them before we make our everlasting
bed among them.  Therefore let us not sleep as do others, but let us watch and be sober.  What
meanest thou, O sleeper? arise and call upon thy God! When the guide shook Heedless and Too-bold
off their settles in that slothful arbour, the one of them said with his eyes still shut, "I
will pay you when I take my money," and the other said, "I will fight so long as I can hold
my sword in my hand."  At that one of the children laughed. "What is the meaning of that?"
asked Christiana.  The guide said: "They talk in their sleep."  So they did, and so do all
men.  For this whole world is full of settles on which men sleep and talk in their sleep. 
The newspapers to-morrow morning will all be full to overflowing of what men have said and
written to-day and yesterday in their sleep.  The shops and the banks and the exchanges will
all be full of men making promises and settling accounts in their sleep.  They will finger
their purses, and grasp their swords, and all in their sleep.  And not children but devils
will laugh as they hear the folly that falls from men's lips who are besotted with spiritual
sleep and drugged with spiritual and fleshly sin. A dream cometh through the multitude of business.
I had just got this length in this lecture the other night when I went to sleep.  And in my
sleep one of my people came to me and asked me if I could make it quite clear and plain to
him what it would be for a man like him after a communion-time to begin to walk with God. 
And I just wish I could make the things of the Enchanted Ground as plain to myself and to you
to-night as I was able to make a walk with God plain to myself and to my visitor that night
in my ministerial dream.  I often wish that my business mind worked as well in my study chair
and in my pulpit as it sometimes does in my bed and in my sleep.  The reason my poor lips spake
so sweetly about a walk with God that night most have been because I spent all the summer evening
before walking with God and with you in the vineyards of Beulah.

4.
   If in my flower of youth and strength, when all men
   Loved, honour'd, fear'd me, thou alone couldst hate me,
   Thy husband, slight me, sell me, and forego me;
   How wouldst thou use me now, blind, and thereby
   Deceivable, in most things as a child,
   Helpless, thence easily contemn'd, and scorn'd,
   And last neglected?  How wouldst thou insult,
   When I must live uxorious to thy will
   In perfect thraldom!  How again betray me,
   Bearing my words and doings to the lords
   To gloss upon, and censuring, frown or smile!
   This jail I count the house of liberty
   To thine, whose doors my feet shall never enter."

5.  The love of money to some men is the root of all evil.  There came once a youth to St.
Philip Neri and, flushed with joy, told him that his parents after much entreaty had at length
allowed him to study law.  St. Philip was not a man of many words.  "What then?" the saint
simply asked the shining youth.  "Then I shall become a lawyer!"  "And then?" pursued Philip.
"Then," said the young man, "I shall earn a nice sum of money, and I shall purchase a fine
country house, procure a carriage and horses, marry a handsome and rich wife, and lead a delightful
life!"  "And then?" "Then,"--the youth reflected as death and eternity arose before his eyes,
and from that day he began to take care of his immortal soul.  Philip with one word snatched
that young man's soul off The Rich Man's Settle.

6.  The Vain Man's Settle draws down many men to shame and everlasting contempt.  Praise a
vain man or a vain woman aright and enough and you will get them to do anything you like. 
Give a vain man sufficient publicity in your paper or on your platform and he will become a
spy, a traitor, and cut-throat in your service.  The sorcerer's cup of praise--keep it full
enough in a vain man's hand, and he will sleep in the arbour of vanity till he wakens in hell.
Madam Bubble, the arch-enchantress, knows her own, and she has, with her purse, her promotion,
and her praise, bought off many a promising pilgrim.

7.  And then she, by virtue of whose sorceries this whole land is drugged and enchanted, is
such a bold slut that she will build a Sacred Arbour even, and will fill it full of religious
enchantment for you rather than lose hold of you.  She will consecrate places and persons and
periods for you if your taste lies that way; she will build costly and stately churches for
you; she will weave rich vestments and carve rich vessels; she will employ all the arts; she
will even sanctify and set apart and seat aloft her holy men--what will she not do to please
you, to take you, to intoxicate and enchant you?  She will juggle for your soul equally well
whether you are a country clown in a feeing-market or a fine lady of aesthetic tastes and religious
sensibilities in the capital and the court.  But I shall let Father Faber speak, who can speak
on this subject both with authority and with attraction.  "She can open churches, and light
candles on the altar, and intone Te Deums to the Majesty on high. She can pass into the beauty
of art, into the splendour of dress, and into the magnificence of furniture.  She can sit with
high principles on her lips discussing a religious vocation and praising God and sanctity.
On the benches of bishops and in the pages of good books you will find her, and yet she is
all the while the same huge evil creature."  Yes; she is all the time the same Madam Bubble
who offered to Standfast her body, her purse, and her bed.

Now, would you know for yourself, like the communicant who came to me in my sleep, how you
are ever to get past all those arbours, and settles, and seats, and couches, with all their
sweet sorceries and intoxicating enchantments--would you in earnest know that?  Then study
well the case of one Standfast.  Especially the time when she who enchants this whole ground
hereabouts set so upon that pilgrim.  In one word, it was this: he remembered his Lord; and,
like his Lord, he fell on his face; and as his Lord would have it, His servant's lips as they
touched the ground touched also the healing plant harmony and he was saved.

         "A small unsightly root,
   But of divine effect.

Prayer, my sin-beset brethren, standfast prayer, is the otherwise unidentified haemony whose
best habitat was the Garden of Gethsemane; and with that holy root in your heart and in your
mouth, there is "no enchantment against Jacob, neither is there any divination against Israel."

THE LAND OF BEULAH

   "Thou shalt be called Hephzibah, and thy land Beulah."--Isaiah.

The first thing that John Bunyan tells us about the land of Beulah is this--that the shortest
and the best way to the Celestial City lies directly through that land.  The land of Beulah
has its own indigenous inhabitants indeed.  The land of Beulah has its frequent visitors also,
and its welcome guests from the regions above.  Some of the shining ones come down from time
to time and make a short sojourn in Beulah.  The angels in heaven have such a desire to see
the lands from which God's saints come up that at certain seasons all the suburbs of the Celestial
City are full of those shining servants of God and of the Lamb.

But what made the dreamer to smile and to talk so in his sleep was when he saw that all the
upward ways to the Celestial City ran through the land of Beulah.  He saw also in his dream
how all the pilgrims blamed themselves so bitterly now because they had misspent so much of
their time and strength in the ways below, and so had not come sooner to see and to taste this
blessed land.  But, at the same time, as it was, they all rejoiced with a great joy because
that, after all their delays and all their wanderings, their way still led them through the
borders of Beulah.  Now, my dear fellow-communicants, how shall we find our way at once, and
without any more wanderings, into that so desirable land?  How shall we attain to walk its
streets all the rest of our days with our staff in our hand?  How shall we hope to see our
boys and our girls playing in the streets of Beulah, and eating all their days of its sweet
and its healing fruits?  How shall we and our children with us henceforth escape the Slough
of Despond, and Giant Despair's dungeon, and the Valley of the Shadow of Death?  The word,
my brethren, the answer to all that, is nigh unto us, even in our mouth and in our heart. 
For faith, simple faith, will do all that both for us and for our children beside us.  A heart-feeding
faith in God, in the word of God, and in the Son of God, will do it.  Faith, and then obedience.
For obedience, my brethren, is Beulah.  All obedience is already Beulah.  Holy obedience will
bring the whole of Beulah into your heart and into mine at any moment.  It is disobedience
that makes so many of those who otherwise are true pilgrims to miss so much of the land of
Beulah.  Ask any affable old man with his staff in his hand for very age, and he will tell
you that it was his disobedience that kept him so long out of the land of Beulah.  While, let
any man, and above all, let any young man, begin early to live a life of believing obedience,
and he will grow up and grow old and see his children's children playing around his staff in
the streets of Beulah. Let any young man make the experiment for himself upon obedience and
upon Beulah.  Let him not too easily believe any dreamer or even any seer about obedience and
about the land of Beulah.  It is his own matter and not theirs; and let him make experiment
upon it all for his own satisfaction and assurance.  Let any young man, then, try prayer as
his first step into obedience, and especially secret prayer.  Let him shut his door to-night,
and let him see if he is not already inside one of the gates of Beulah.  Let him deny himself
every day also, if it is only in a very little thing.  Let him say sternly to his own heart
every hour of temptation, No! never! and on the spot a sweet waft of Beulah's finest spices
will fall upon his face.  "The ineffable joy of renouncing joy" will every day make the lonely
wilderness of this world a constant Beulah to such a man.  For, to live at all times, in all
places, and in all things for other men, and never and in nothing for yourself--that is the
deepest secret of Beulah.  To say it, if need be, three times to-night on your face and in
a sweat of blood, "Not my will, but Thine be done!"--that will to-night turn the garden of
Gethsemane itself into the very garden of Glory.  Do you doubt it?  Are you not yet able to
believe it?  Then hear about it from One who has Himself come through it.  Hear His word upon
the whole matter who is the Way, the Truth, and the Life.  "Come unto Me," says the King of
Beulah, "all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.  So after He had
washed their feet, and had taken His garments and was set down again, He said unto them, "Know
ye what I have done to you?  For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done
to you.  If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them.  If ye love Me, keep My commandments.
And I will pray the Father, and He shall give you another Comforter, that He may abide with
you for ever.  If a man love Me, he will keep My words; and My Father will love him, and We
will come unto him and will make Our abode with him.  Peace I leave with you, My peace I give
unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you.  These things have I spoken unto you that
My joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. Hitherto ye have asked nothing
in My name; ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full.  Father, I will that they
also, whom Thou hast given Me, be with Me where I am."  And thus I saw in my dream that their
way lay right through the land of Beulah, in which land they solaced themselves for a season.

2.  "They solaced themselves."  Now, solace is just the Latin solatium, which, again, is just
a soothing, an assuaging, a compensation, an indemnification.  Well, that land into which the
pilgrims had now come was very soothing to their ruffled spirits and to their weary hearts.
It assuaged their many and sore griefs also.  It more than compensated them for all their labours
and all their afflictions.  And it was a full indemnification to them for all that they had
forsaken and lost both in beginning to be pilgrims and in enduring to the end.  The children
of Israel had their first solace in their pilgrimage at Elim, where there were twelve wells
of water and threescore and ten palm-trees; and they encamped there by the waters.  And then
they had their last and crowning solace when the spies came back from Eshcol with a cluster
of grapes that they bare between two upon a staff, with pomegranates and figs.  Our Lord spake
solace to His doubting and fainting disciples also in many such words as these: "Verily, I
say unto you, there is no man that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children
for the kingdom of God's sake, who shall not receive manifold more in this present time, and
in the world to come life everlasting."  The Mount of Transfiguration also was His own Beulah-solace;
and the Last Supper and the prayer with which it wound up were given to our Lord and to His
disciples as a very Eshcol-cluster from the Paradise above.  Now, I saw in my dream that they
solaced themselves in the land of Beulah for a season.  Yea, here they heard continually the
singing of birds.  (The Latin poets called the birds solatia ruris, because they refreshed
and cheered the rustic labourers with their sweet singing.)  And every day the flowers appeared
in the earth, and the voice of the turtle was heard in the land.  In this country the sun shineth
night and day, for there is no night there.

3.  "In this country the sun shineth night and day."  How much Standfast must have enjoyed
that land of light you may guess when you recollect that he came from Darkland, which lies
in the hemisphere right opposite to the land of Beulah.  In Darkland the sun never shines to
be called sunshine at all.  All the days of his youth, Standfast told his companions, he had
sat beside his father and his mother in that obscure land where to his sorrow his father and
his mother still sat.  But in Beulah "the rose of evening becomes silently and suddenly the
rose of dawn."  This land lies beyond the Valley of the Shadow of Death, neither could they
from this place so much as see Doubting Castle.  Now, Doubting Castle is a dismal place for
any soul of man to be shut up into.  And in that dark hold there are dungeons dug for all kinds
of doubting souls. There are dungeons dug for the souls of men whose doubts are in their intellects,
as well as for those also whose doubts arise out of their hearts.  Some men read themselves
into Doubting Castle, and some men sin and sell themselves to its giant.  God casts some of
His own children all their days into those dungeons as a punishment for their life of disobedience;
He casts others down into chains of darkness because of their idleness and unfruitfulness.
But Beulah is far away from Doubting Castle.  Beulah is a splendid spot for a studious man
to lodge in.  For what a clear light shines night and day in Beulah!  To what far horizons
a man's eye will carry him in Beulah!  What large speculations rise before him who walks abroad
in Beulah!  How clear the air is in Beulah, how clean the heart and how unclouded the eye of
its inhabitants!  The King's walks are in Beulah, and the arbours where He delighteth to be.
Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall be admitted to see God in the land of Beulah.

