The word manoeuvre uses an oe ligature in the original.

4.

PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. CL.

APRIL 26, 1916.

CHARIVARIA.

GENERAL VILLA, in pursuit of whom a United States army has already penetrated four hundred
miles into Mexico, is alleged to have died. It is not considered likely, however, that he will
escape as easily as all that.

       ***

"Germans net the Sound," says a recent issue of a contemporary. We don't know what profit they
will get out of it, but we ourselves in these hard times are only too glad to net anything.

       ***

Bags of coffee taken from a Norwegian steamer and destined for German consumption have been
found to contain rubber. Once more the immeasurable superiority of the German chemist as a
deviser of synthetic substitutes for ordinary household commodities is clearly illustrated.
What a contrast to our own scientists, whose use of this most valuable food substitute has
never gone far beyond an occasional fowl or beefsteak.

       ***

It has been suggested that in honour of the tercentenary of SHAKSPEARE'S birth Barclay's brewery
should be replaced by a new theatre, a replica of the old Globe Theatre, whose site it is supposed
to occupy; and Mr. REGINALD MCKENNA is understood to have stated that it is quite immaterial
to him.

       ***

"Horseflesh is on sale in the West End," says The Daily Telegraph, "and the public analyst
at Westminster reports having examined a smoked horseflesh sausage and found it genuine." It
is only fair to our readers, however, to point out that the method of testing sausages now
in vogue, i.e. with a stethoscope, is only useful for ascertaining the identity of the animal
(if any) contained therein, and is valueless in the case of sausages that are filled with sawdust,
india-rubber shavings, horsehair and other vegetables.

       ***

Wandsworth Borough has refused the offer of a horse trough on the ground that there are not
enough horses to use it. But there are always plenty of shirkers.

       ***

Colonel CHURCHILL was reported on Tuesday last as having been seen entering the side door of
No. 11, Downing Street. It was, of course, the critical stage door.

       ***

The Austrian Government has issued an appeal for dogs "for sanitary purposes." The valuable
properties of the dog for sterilising sausage casings have long been a secret of the Teuton.

       *       *       *       *       *

Commercial Candour.

    "Real Harris Hand-Knitted Socks, 1s. 6d.: worth 2s. 6d.;
    unwearable."--Scotch Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A Chance for the Illiterate.

    "Wanted, a good, all-round Gardener; illegible."--Provincial
    Paper.

    "Gardener.--Wanted at once, clever experienced man with good
    knowledge of toms., cucs., mums., &c., to work up small
    nursery."
                                             Provincial Paper.

One with a knowledge of nursery language preferred.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "MANCHESTER, ENG. The election of directors of the Manchester
    Chamber of Commerce resulted in the return of eighteen out of
    twenty-two directors who are definitely committed to the
    policy of no free trade with the 60th Canadian Battalion."
                                      Victoria Colonist (B.C.).

We hope the battalion will not retaliate by refusing protection to Manchester, Eng.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CURSE OF BABEL.

Let me tell you about the Baronne de Blanqueville and her grandson.

The Baronne is a Belgian lady who came to England in the early days of the refugee movement,
and established herself here in our village.

With her came her younger daughter and Lou-lou, the infant son of an elder daughter, who had
for some reason to be left behind in Belgium.

Lou-lou was a year old when, with his grandmother and his aunt, he settled in England as an
émigré. He was then inarticulate; now he has gained the use of his tongue.

He has had a little English nursemaid to attend on him, and he has become a familiar object
in many English families of the neighbourhood.

In fact, he has had a very English bringing up, and now that he is more than two years old
and can talk, he insists on talking English with volubility and understanding it with completeness.

I may mention, by the way, that someone has taught him some expressions unusual in so young
a mouth. The other day I met him in his perambulator. He said, "I take the air. I'm damn comfable;"
whereupon the nursemaid blushed and chid him.

That, however, is not the point--at any rate, not the whole of it.

What I wish to make clear is this: the Baronne neither speaks nor understands English, whereas
Lou-lou speaks a great deal of English and no French at all. He rejects that language with
a violent shake of his curly head. He stamps his small foot and tells his adoring grandmother
to speak English or leave him alone.

Thus a gulf has begun to yawn between the Baronne and her beloved Lou-lou. Communications are
all but broken off. Lou-lou's aunt is in better case, for she is slowly acquiring English;
but the Baronne, I think, will never learn any English.

What is to be done?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The rage for flower-trimming is nothing short of an
    obeisance."--Evening Paper.

In spite of the War we still bow to the decrees of fashion.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE JOY TAX.

    [By one who is prepared to accept it like a patriot without
    further protest.]

  Now Spring comes laughing down the sky
    To see her buds all busy hatching;
      With tender green the woods are gay,
      And birds, as is their April way,
  Chirp merrily on the bough, and I
    Chirp, too, because it's catching.

  Full many a joy I must eschew
    And to the tempter's voice "No! No!" say;
      With taxes laid on all delights
      Must miss, with other mirthful sights,
  On Monday next my annual view
    Of England's Art Exposé.

  I must forgo (and bear the worst
    With what I can of noble calm) a
      Pure bliss from which I only part
      With horrid pain about the heart--
  I mean the humour unrehearsed
    Of serious British drama.

  But, thank the Lord, I need not miss
    The birds that in their leafy nook coo;
      Young Spring is mine to taste at large,
      The Ministry has made no charge
  For earth that warms to April's kiss;
    They haven't taxed the cuckoo!                          O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

A VOLUNTEER CASUALTY.

We were "standing easy" prior to the assault on the undefended heights of Spanker's Hill when
the voice of the platoon-commander disturbed our thoughts of home and loved ones, and particularly
of our Sunday dinners, which would be very much out of season before we could get at them.

"Number 4," he said, in a tone that thrilled us to the bottom twist of our puttees, "these
Body-Snatchers (thus coarsely he alluded to the Ambulance Section) have been following us all
day and haven't had a single casualty so far. That is why, in the coming advance, I shall be
wounded. Sergeant, you will take over the command, should the worst befall. Smith and Williams,
as you are both big and heavy, you'd better be knocked out too."

It was with mingled feelings that I heard my name mentioned. In the first place, a feeling
of annoyance was engendered at having my proportions thus publicly referred to. But other,
and I trust worthier, thoughts came to me, and, turning to my neighbour, I gave him a few last
messages of a suitably moving nature to be delivered to my friends. The kind-hearted fellow
was deeply affected, and in a voice broken by emotion offered to take charge of my loose change,
and asked for my watch as a keepsake. I thanked him with tears in my eyes, but said that the
burial party would forward all my valuables to my relations.

Our conversation was interrupted by the command "Platoon--'SHUN. To the left, to six paces,
ex-TEND." By an oversight the preliminary formation usually adopted as a precaution against
artillery had been omitted, and in a moment we were advancing up the hill in open order.

Scarcely had we started when our officer, the pride of the platoon, threw up his hands and
fell. A moment later, chancing on a piece of tempting grass, I decided to lie down, and with
a choking gurgle collapsed. As I lay on my back in an appropriate attitude (copied from the
cinema) I wondered when the stretcher-party would appear, for the grass was damp and the April
wind was chilly; but it was not long before a bright boy, rather over than under military age,
ran up and, after a brief glance at me, began to signal with great vigour. He meant well, and
out of consideration for his feelings I restrained a desire to tell him that he was creating
a beastly draught. However, I asked him if he had any brandy, and, on receiving an answer in
the negative, groaned deeply.

"Are you very bad?" he asked.

"No," I replied; "but if I lie here much longer I'll catch cold. Tell your people to hurry up."

When the stretcher-party arrived they decided that I had been shot in the chest, and, to get
at the wound, began to remove my garments, till arrested by some virile language thrown off
from the part affected. Then they began to carry me towards the gate of the park, despite the
fact that the stretcher had been meant to hold someone about six inches shorter than I. Almost
immediately the rear man, tripping on a root, fell on top of me, and the front man, being brought
to a sudden stop, sat on my feet. When we had sorted ourselves out, and I had stopped talking,
more from lack of breath than of matter, we resumed our journey.

After a matter of some three hundred yards the bearers began to feel tired, and, suddenly rolling
me off the stretcher, they informed me that I was discharged as cured. Thus rapidly does a
soldier of the Volunteers recover. It speaks volumes not only for their high state of physical
condition but for the resilience of their moral.

       *       *       *       *       *

Intelligent Anticipation.

    "Bucharest, 8.--The 'Universul' has opened a list of
    subscriptions in favour of the widows and victims of the
    coming Austro-Roumanian war."--Balkan News.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "'WHERE ANGELS FEAR TO TREAD' AT THE ---- PICTURE
    THEATRE."--Hastings Observer.

The management doesn't mind so long as the fools rush in.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Smyth-Pigotts are the owners of Brockley Court and
    Brockley Hall, near Congresbury, a pretty village which--like
    Majoribanks--is pronounced Coomesbury."--Daily Sketch.

Just as, according to the old story, Cholmondeley is pronounced Marjoribanks.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Monster Carnival! In aid of Returned Soldiers' Association.
    Novel Attractions!!! Realistic Egyptian Pillage, just as our
    soldiers saw it. Egyptian goods can be purchased
    here."--Adelaide Register.

We hope this does not mean that our gallant Anzacs have been spoiling the Egyptians.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A LADY would like to let her beautifully furnished HOUSE or
    part, or three or four paying guests; from £2 10s. each."
                                       Bournemouth Daily Echo.

We have heard of paying guests whom their hosts would have been glad to part with at an even
lower figure.

       *       *       *       *       *

