RAILWAY-ENGINEERING IN THE UNITED STATES.[1]

Though our country can boast of no Watt, Brindley, Smeaton, Rennie, Telford, Brunel, Stephenson,
or Fairbairn, and lacks such experimenters as Tredgold, Barlow, Hodgkinson, and Clark, yet
we have our Evans and Fulton, our Whistler, Latrobe, Roebling, Haupt, Ellet, Adams, and Morris,--engineers
who yield to none in professional skill, and whose work will bear comparison with the best
of that of Great Britain or the Continent; and if America does not show a Thames Tunnel, a
Conway or Menai Tubular Bridge, or a monster steamer, yet she has a railroad-bridge of eight
hundred feet clear span, hung two hundred and fifty feet above one of the wildest rivers in
the world,--locomotive engines climbing the Alleghanies at an ascent of five hundred feet per
mile,--and twenty-five thousand miles of railroad, employing upwards of five thousand locomotives
and eighty thousand cars, costing over a thousand millions of dollars, and transporting annually
one hundred and thirty millions of passengers and thirty million tons of freight,--and all
this in a manner peculiarly adapted to our country, both financially and mechanically.

In England the amount of money bears a high proportion to the amount of territory; in America
the reverse is the case; and the engineers of the two countries quickly recognized the fact:
for we find our railroads costing from thirty thousand to forty thousand dollars per mile,--while
in England, to surmount much easier natural obstacles, the cost varies from seventy-five to
one hundred thousand dollars per mile.

The cost of railroad transport will probably never be so low as carriage by water,--that is,
natural water-communication; because the river or ocean is given to man complete and ready
for use, needing no repairs, and with no interest to pay upon construction capital. Indeed,
it is just beginning to be seen all over the country that the public have both expected and
received too much accommodation from the companies. Men are perfectly willing to pay five dollars
for riding a hundred miles in a stage-coach; but give them a nicely warmed, ventilated, cushioned,
and furnished car, and carry them four or five times faster, with double the comfort, and they
expect to pay only half-price,--as a friend of the writer once remarked, "Why, of course we
ought not to pay so much when we a'n't half so long going,"--as if, when they paid their fare,
they not only bargained for transport from one place to another, but for the luxury of sitting
in a crowded coach a certain number of hours. It would be hard to show a satisfactory basis
for such an establishment of tolls. We need not wonder at the unprofitableness of many of our
roads when we consider that the relative cost of transport is,--

  By Stage, one cent,
  By Railroad, two and seven-twelfths;

and the relative charge,--

  By Stage, five cents,
  By Railroad, three cents;

and the comparative profit, as five less one to three less two and seven-twelfths, or as four
to five-twelfths, or as nine and six-tenths to one.

America has, it is true, a grander system of natural water-communication than any other land
except Brazil; but, for all that, there is really but a small part of the area, either of the
Alleghany coal and iron fields, or of the granaries of the Mississippi valley, reached even
by our matchless rivers. A certain strip or band of country, bordering the water-courses, is
served by them both as regards export and import; just as much is served wherever we build
a railroad. In fact, whenever we lay a road across a State, whether it connects the West directly
with the East, or only with some central commercial point in the West, just so often do we
open to market a band of country as long as the road, and thirty, forty, or fifty miles wide,--the
width depending very much upon the cost of transport over such road; and as the charge is much
less upon a railroad than upon a common road, the distance from the road from which produce
may be brought is much greater with the former than with the latter. The actual determination
of the width of the band is a simple problem, when the commercial nature of the country is known.

The people of the great valley have not been slow, where Nature has denied them the natural,
to make for themselves artificial rivers of iron. These railroads are more completely adapted
to the physical character of the Western States than would be any other mode of communication.
The work of construction is oftentimes very light, little more being necessary for a railway
across the prairies of the West (generally) than a couple of ditches twenty or thirty feet
apart, the material taken therefrom being thrown into the intermediate space, thus forming
the surface which supports the crossties, the sills or sleepers, and the rails. Indeed, the
double operation of ditching and embanking is in some cases performed by a single machine,
(a nondescript affair, in appearance half-way between a threshing-machine and a hundred-and-twenty-pound
field-piece,) drawn by six, eight, or ten pairs of oxen.

It is even probable that in a great many cases the common road would cost more than the railway
in the great central basin of America; as the rich alluvial soil, when wet in spring or fall,
is almost impassable, and lack of stone and timber prevents the construction of artificial roads.

The influence of the railroad upon the Western farm-lands is quickly seen by the following
figures, extracted from a lately published work on railroad construction.

Table showing the Effect of Railroad Transport upon the Value of Grain in the Market of Chicago,
Illinois.

                       WHEAT                        CORN
              Carried by    Carried by    Carried by    Carried by
               railroad        wagon       railroad       wagon

  At market     $49.50         49.50         25.60        25.60
  Carried 10 m.  49.25         48.00         24.25        23.26
     do.  50 m.  48.75         42.00         24.00        17.25
     do. 100 m.  48.00         34.50         23.25         9.75
     do. 150 m.  47.25         27.00         22.50         2.25
     do. 200 m.  46.50         19.50         21.75         0.00
     do. 300 m.  45.00          4.50         20.25         0.00
     do. 330 m.  44.55          0.00         19.80         0.00

Thus a ton of corn carried two hundred miles costs by wagon transport more than it brings at
market,--while, moved by railroad, it is worth $21.75. Also wheat will not bear wagon transport
of 330 miles,--while, moved that distance by railroad it is worth $44.55 per ton.

The social effect of railroads is seen and felt by those who live in the neighborhood of large
cities. The unhealthy density of population is prevented, by enabling men to live five, ten,
or fifteen miles away from the city and yet do business therein. The extent of this diffusion
is as the square of the speed of transport. To illustrate. If a person walks four miles an
hour, and is allowed one hour for passing from his home to his place of business, he can live
four miles from his work; the area, therefore, which may be lived in is the circle of which
the radius is four miles, the diameter eight miles, and the area 501/4 square miles. If by
horse he can go eight miles an hour, the diameter of the circle becomes sixteen miles, and
the area 201 square miles. Finally, if by railroad he goes thirty miles an hour, the diameter
becomes sixty miles, and the area 2,827 square miles.

In the case of railroads, as of other labor-saving (and labor-producing) contrivances, the
innovation has been loudly decried; but though it does render some classes of labor useless,
and throw out of employment some persons, it creates new labor for more than the old, and gives
much more than it takes away.

Twenty years of experience show that the diminished cost of transport by railroad invariably
augments the amount of commerce transacted, and in a much larger ratio than the reduction of
cost. It is estimated by Dr. Lardner that three hundred thousand horses, working daily in stages,
would be required to perform the passenger-traffic alone which took place in England during
the year 1848.

Regarding the safety of railroad-travelling, though the papers teem with awful calamities from
collisions and other causes, yet so great is the number of persons who use the new mode of
transport, that travelling by railroad is really about one hundred times safer than by stage.
The mortality upon English roads was for one year observed: --one person killed for each sixty-five
million transported; in America, for the same time, one in forty-one million.

If we should try to reason from the rate of past railway-growth as to what the future is to
be, we should soon be lost in figures. Thus, in the United States,--

  In 1829  there were       3  miles.
  In 1830                  41  miles.
  In 1840                2167  miles.
  In 1850                7355  miles.
  In 1856              23,242  miles.

Thus from 1830 to 1840, the rate is as 2167/41 or 53 nearly; from 1840 to 1850, 7355/2167,
or 3 nearly; and from 1850 to 1856, 23242/ 7355 or 3 nearly; and from 1850 to 1860 we may suppose
the rate will be about 4. The rate is probably now at its permanent maximum, taking the whole
country together,--the increase in New England having nearly ceased, while west of the Mississippi
it has not reached its average.

Among the larger and more important roads and connected systems in our country may be named
the New York and Erie Railroad,--connecting the city of New York with Lake Erie at Dunkirk,
(and, by the road's diverging from its western terminus, with "all places West and South,"
as the bills say,)--crossing the Shawangunk Mountains through the valley of the Neversink,
up the Delaware, down the Susquehanna, and through the rich West of the Empire State.

The Pennsylvania Central Road: from Philadelphia through Lancaster to Harrisburg, on the Susquehanna,
up the Juniata and down the western slope of the Alleghanies, through rock-cut galleries and
over numberless bridges, reaching at last the bluffs where smoky Pittsburg sees the Ohio start
on its noble course.

The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad: from Baltimore, in Maryland, to Wheeling and Parkersburg,
on the Ohio;--crossing the lowlands to the Washington Junction, thence up the Patapsco, down
the Monocacy, to the Potomac; up to Harper's Ferry, where the Potomac and the Shenandoah chafe
the rocky base of the romantic little town perched high above; winding up the North Branch
to Cumberland,--the terminus of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, and of the great national turnpike
to the West, for which Wills' Creek opened so grand a gate at the narrows,--to Piedmont the
foot and Altamont the summit, through Savage Valley and Crabtree Gorge, across the glades,
from which the water flows east to the Chesapeake Bay and west to the Gulf of Mexico; down
Saltlick Creek, and up the slopes of Cheat River and Laurel Hill, till rivers dwindle to creeks,
creeks to rills, and rills lose themselves on the flanks of mountains which bar the passage
of everything except the railroad; thence, through tunnels of rock and tunnels of iron, descending
Tygart's Valley to the Monongahela, and thence through a varied but less rugged country to
Moundsville, twelve miles below Wheeling, on the Ohio River.

These are our three great roads where engineering skill has triumphed over natural obstacles.
We have another class of great lines to which the obstacles were not so much mechanical as
financial, --the physical difficulties being quite secondary. Such are the trunk lines from
the East to the West,--through Buffalo, Erie, and Cleveland, to Toledo and Detroit, and from
Detroit to Chicago, Rock Island, Burlington, Quincy, and St. Louis; from Pittsburg, Wheeling,
and Parkersburg, on the Ohio, to Cleveland, Columbus, Cincinnati, Indianapolis, Louisville,
and St. Louis; and from Cleveland, through Columbus, to Cincinnati, and from Cincinnati to
the Northwest.

In progress also may be noticed roads running west from St. Louis, Hannibal, and Burlington,
on the Mississippi, all tending towards some point in Kansas, from which the great Pacific
Road, the crowning effort of American railway-engineering, may be supposed to take its departure
for California and Oregon.

The chief point of difference between the English and the American engineer is, that the former
defies all opposition from river and mountain, maintains his line straight and level, fights
Nature at every point, cares neither for height nor depth, rock nor torrent, builds his matchless
roads through the snowy woods of Canada or over the sandy plains of Egypt with as much unconcern
as among the pleasant fields of Hertford or Surrey, and spans with equal ease the Thames, the
Severn, the St. Lawrence, and the Nile. The words "fail," "impossible," "can't be done," he
knows not; and when all other means of finding a firm base whereon to build his bridges and
viaducts fail, he puts in a foundation of golden guineas and silver dollars, which always gives
success.

On the other hand, the American engineer, always respectful (though none the less determined)
in the presence of natural obstacles to his progress, bows politely to the opposing mountain-range,
and, bowing, passes around the base, saying, as he looks back, "You see, friend, we need have
no hard feelings,--the world is large enough for thee and me." To the broad-sweeping river
he gently hints, "Nearer your source you are not so big, and, as I turned out for the mountain,
why should I not for the river?" till mountain and river, alike aghast at the bold pigmy, look
in silent wonder at the thundering train which shoulders aside granite hills and tramples rivers
beneath its feet. But if Nature corners him between rocks heavenward piled on the one hand
and roaring torrents on the other, whether to pass is required a bridge or a tunnel, we find
either or both designed and built in a manner which cannot be bettered. He is well aware that
the directors like rather to see short columns of figures on their treasurer's books than to
read records of great mechanical triumphs in their engineer's reports.

Of the whole expense of building a railroad, where the country is to any considerable degree
broken, the reduction of the natural surface to the required form for the road, that is, the
earthwork, or, otherwise, the excavation and embankment, amounts to from thirty to seventy
per cent. of the whole cost. Here, then, is certainly an important element on which the engineer
is to show his ability; let us look a little at it, even at the risk of being dry.

It is by no means necessary to reduce the natural surface of the country to a level or horizontal
line; if it were so, there would be an end to all railroads, except on some of the Western
prairies. This was not, however, at first known; indeed, those who were second to understand
the matter denied the possibility of moving a locomotive even on a level by applying power
to the wheels, because, it was said, the wheels would slip round on the smooth iron rail and
the engine remain at rest. But lo! when the experiment was tried, it was found that the wheel
not only had sufficient bite or adhesion upon the rail to prevent slipping and give a forward
motion to the engine, but that a number of cars might be attached and also moved.

This point gained, the objectors advanced a step, but again came to a stand, and said, "If
you can move a train on a level, that is all, --you can't go up hill." But trial proved that
easy inclines (called grades) could be surmounted,--say, rising ten feet for each mile in length.

The objectors take another step, but again put down their heavy square-toed foot, and say,
"There! aren't you satisfied? you can go over grades of twenty feet per mile, but no more,--so
don't try." And here English engineers stop,--twenty feet being considered a pretty stiff grade.
Meanwhile, the American engineers Whistler and Latrobe, the one dealing with the Berkshire
mountains in Massachusetts, the other with the Alleghanies in Virginia, find that not only
are grades of ten and of twenty feet admissible, but, where Nature requires it, inclines of
forty, sixty, eighty, and even one hundred feet per mile,--it being only remembered, the while,
that just as the steepness of the grade is augmented, the power must be increased. This discovery,
when properly used, is of immense advantage; but in the hands of those who do not understand
the nice relation which exists between the mechanical and the financial elements of the question,
as governed by the speed and weight of trains, and by the funds at the company's disposal,
is very liable to be a great injury to the prospects of a road, or even its ruin.

It was urged at one time, that the best road would have the grades undulating from one end
to the other,--so that the momentum acquired in one descent would carry the train almost over
the succeeding ascent; and that very little steam-power would be needed. This idea would have
place, at least to a certain extent, if the whole momentum was allowed to accumulate during
the descent; but even supposing there would be no danger from acquiring so great a speed, a
mechanical difficulty was brought to light at once, namely, that the resistance of the atmosphere
to the motion of the train increased nearly, if not quite, as the square of the speed; so that
after the train on the descent acquired a certain speed, a regular motion was obtained by the
balance of momentum and resistance, --whence a fall great enough to produce this regular speed
would be advantageous, but no more. On the other hand, the extra power required to draw the
train up the grades much overbalances the gain by gravity in going down.

Here, then, we have the two extremes: first, spending more money than the expected traffic
will warrant, to cut down hills and fill up valleys; and second, introducing grades so steep
that the amount of traffic does not authorize the use of engines heavy enough to work them.

The direction of the traffic, to a certain extent, determines the rate and direction of the
inclines. Thus, the Reading Railroad, from Philadelphia up the Schuylkill to Reading, and thence
to Pottsville, is employed entirely in the transport of coal from the Lehigh coal-fields to
tide-water in Philadelphia; and it is a very economically operated road, considering the large
amount of ascent encountered, because the load goes down hill, and the weight of the train
is limited only by the number of empty cars that the engine can take back.

This adoption of steep inclines may be considered as an American idea entirely, and to it many
of our large roads owe their success. The Western Railroad of Massachusetts ascends from Springfield
to Pittsfield, for a part of the way, at 83 feet per mile. The New York and Erie Railroad has
grades of 60 feet per mile. The Baltimore and Ohio climbs the Alleghanies on inclines of 116
feet per mile. The Virginia Central Road crosses the Blue Ridge by grades of 250 and 295 feet
per mile; and the ridge through which the Kingwood Tunnel is bored, upon the Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad, was surmounted temporarily by grades of 500 feet per mile, up which each single
car was drawn by a powerful locomotive.

Another element, of which American engineers have freely availed themselves, is curvature.
More power is required to draw a train of cars around a curved track than upon a straight line.
In England the radius of curvature is limited to half a mile, or thereabouts. The English railway-carriage
is placed on three axles, all of which are fixed to the body of the vehicle; the passage of
curves, of even a large diameter, is thus attended by considerable wear and strain; but in
America, the cars, which are much longer than those upon English roads, are placed upon a pintle
or pin at each end, which pin is borne upon the centre of a four-wheeled truck,--by which arrangement
the wheels may conform to the line of the rails, while the body of the car is unaffected. This
simple contrivance permits the use of curves which would otherwise be entirely impracticable.
Thus we find curves of one thousand feet radius upon our roads, over which the trains are run
at very considerable speed; while in one remarkable instance (on the Virginia Central Railroad,
before named) we find the extreme minimum of 234 feet. Such a track does not admit of high
speeds, and its very use implies the existence of natural obstacles which prevent the acquirement
of great velocities.

In fine, the use which the engineer makes of grades and curves, when the physical nature of
the country and the nature and amount of the traffic expected are known, may be taken as a
pretty sure index of his real professional standing, and sometimes as an index of the moral
man; as when, for example, he steepens his grades to suit the contractor's ideas of mechanics,--in
other words, to save work.

Not less in the construction of bridges and viaducts, than in the preparation of the road-bed
proper, does the American engineering faculty display itself. Timber, of the best quality,
may be found in almost every part of the country, and nowhere in the world has the design and
building of wooden bridges been carried to such perfection and such extent as in the United
States. We speak here of structures built by such engineers as Haupt, Adams, and Latrobe, --and
not of those works, wretched alike in design and execution, which so often become the cause
of what are called terrible catastrophes and lamentable accidents, but which are, in reality,
the just criticisms of natural mechanical laws upon the ignorance of pretended engineers.

Among the finest specimens of timberwork in America are the Cascade Bridge upon the New York
and Erie Railroad, designed and built by Mr. Adams, consisting of one immense timber-arch,
having natural abutments in the rocky shores of the creek;--the second edition of the bridges
generally upon the same road, by Mr. McCallum, which replaced those originally built during
the construction of the road, --these hardly needing to be taken down by other exertion than
their own;--the bridges from one end to the other of the Pennsylvania Central Road, by Mr.
Haupt;--the Baltimore and Ohio "arch-brace" bridges, by Mr. Latrobe;--and the Genessee "high
bridge," (not a bridge, by the way, but a trestle,) near Portageville, by Mr. Seymour, which
is eight hundred feet long, and carries the road two hundred and thirty feet above the river,
having wooden trestles (post and brickwork) one hundred and ninety feet high, seventy-five
feet wide at base, and twenty-five feet at top, and carrying above all a bridge fourteen feet
high; containing the timber of two hundred and fifty acres of land, and sixty tons of iron
bolts, costing only $140,000, and built in the short time of eighteen months. This structure,
if replaced by an earth embankment, would cost half a million of dollars, and could not be
built in less than five years by the ordinary mode of proceeding.[2]

