The curse pronounced on woman is inserted in an unfriendly spirit to justify her degradation
and subjection to man. With obedience to the laws of health, diet, dress, and exercise, the
period of maternity should be one of added vigor in both body and mind, a perfectly natural
operation should not be attended with suffering. By the observance of physical and psychical
laws the supposed curse can be easily transformed into a blessing. Some churchmen speak of
maternity as a disability, and then chant the Magnificat in all their cathedrals round the
globe. Through all life's shifting scenes, the mother of the race has been the greatest factor
in civilization.

We hear the opinion often expressed, that woman always has, and always will be in subjection.
Neither assertion is true. She enjoyed unlimited individual freedom for many centuries, and
the events of the present day all point to her speedy emancipation. Scientists now give 85,000
years for the growth of the race. They assign 60,000 to savagism, 20,000 to barbarism, and
5,000 to civilization. Recent historians tell us that for centuries woman reigned supreme.
That period was called the Matriarchate. Then man seized the reins of government, and we are
now under the Patriarchate. But we see on all sides new forces gathering, and woman is already
abreast with man in art, science, literature, and government. The next dynasty, in which both
will reign as equals, will be the Amphiarchate, which is close at hand.

Psychologists tell us of a sixth sense now in process of development, by which we can read
each other's mind and communicate without speech. The Tempter might have had that sense, as
he evidently read the minds of both the creature and the Creator, if we are to take this account
as literally true, as Adam Clarke advises.

E. C. S.

Note the significant fact that we always hear of the "fall of man," not the fall of woman,
showing that the consensus of human thought has been more unerring than masculine interpretation.
Reading this narrative carefully, it is amazing that any set of men ever claimed that the dogma
of the inferiority of woman is here set forth. The conduct of Eve from the beginning to the
end is so superior to that of Adam. The command not to eat of the fruit of the tree of Knowledge
was given to the man alone before woman was formed. Genesis ii, 17. Therefore the injunction
was not brought to Eve with the impressive solemnity of a Divine Voice, but whispered to her
by her husband and equal. It was a serpent supernaturally endowed, a seraphim as Scott and
other commentators have claimed, who talked with Eve, and whose words might reasonably seem
superior to the second-hand story of her companion nor does the woman yield at once. She quotes
the command not to eat of the fruit to which the serpent replies "Dying ye shall not die,"
v. 4, literal translation. In other words telling her that if the mortal body does perish,
the immortal part shall live forever, and offering as the reward of her act the attainment
of Knowledge.

Then the woman fearless of death if she can gain wisdom takes of the fruit; and all this time
Adam standing beside her interposes no word of objection. "Her husband with her" are the words
of v. 6. Had he been the representative of the divinely appointed head in married life, he
assuredly would have taken upon himself the burden of the discussion with the serpent, but
no, he is silent in this crisis of their fate. Having had the command from God himself he interposes
no word of warning or remonstrance, but takes the fruit from the hand of his wife without a
protest. It takes six verses to describe the "fall" of woman, the fall of man is contemptuously
dismissed in a line and a half.

The subsequent conduct of Adam was to the last degree dastardly. When the awful time of reckoning
comes, and the Jehovah God appears to demand why his command has been disobeyed, Adam endeavors
to shield himself behind the gentle being he has declared to be so dear. "The woman thou gavest
to be with me, she gave me and I did eat," he whines-- trying to shield himself at his wife's
expense! Again we are amazed that upon such a story men have built up a theory of their superiority!

Then follows what has been called the curse. Is it not rather a prediction? First is the future
fate of the serpent described, the enmity of the whole human race--"it shall lie in wait for
thee as to the head" (v. 15, literal translation). Next the subjection of the woman is foretold,
thy husband "shall rule over thee," v. 16. Lastly the long struggle of man with the forces
of nature is portrayed. "In the sweat of thy face thou shalt eat food until thy turning back
to the earth" (v. 19, literal translation). With the evolution of humanity an ever increasing
number of men have ceased to toil for their bread with their hands, and with the introduction
of improved machinery, and the uplifting of the race there will come a time when there shall
be no severities of labor, and when women shall be freed from all oppressions.

"And Adam called his wife's name Life for she was the mother of all living" (V. 20, literal
translation).

It is a pity that all versions of the Bible do not give this word instead of the Hebrew Eve.
She was Life, the eternal mother, the first representative of the more valuable and important
half of the human race.

L. D. B.

CHAPTER IV.

Genesis iv: 1-12, 19, 21.

4 And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the
Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering.

5 But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance
fell.

10. And he said, What hast thou done? the voice of thy brothers blood crieth unto me from the
ground.

19. And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other
Zillah.

One would naturally suppose that Cain's offering of fruit indicated a more refined and spiritual
idea of the fitness of things than Abel's of animal food. Why Cain's offering was rejected
as unworthy does not appear.

There is something pathetic in Eve's joy and faith at the advent of her first-born: "Lo I have
a man child from the Lord." She evidently thought that Cain was to be to her a great blessing.
Some expositors say that Eve thought that Cain was the promised seed that was to bruise the
serpent's head; but Adam Clarke, in estimating woman's reasoning powers, says, "it was too
metaphysical an idea for that period." But as that is just what the Lord said to Eve, she must
have had the capacity to understand it. But all speculations as to what Eve thought in that
eventful hour are vain. Clarke asserts that Cain and Abel were twins. Eve must have been too
much occupied with her vacillating joys and sorrows to have indulged in any connected train
of thought. Her grief in the fratricidal tragedy that followed can be more easily understood.
The dreary environments of the mother, and the hopeless prophesies of her future struggling
life, banished to a dreary, desolate region, beyond the love and care of her Creator, is revenged
on her children. If Adam and Eve merited the severe punishment inflicted on them, they should
have had some advice from the Heavenly Mother and Father as to the sin of propagating such
an unworthy stock. No good avails in increasing and multiplying evil propensities and deformities
that produce only crime and misery from generation to generation. During the ante-natal period
the mother should be held sacred, and surrounded with all the sweetest influences that Heaven
and earth can give, loving companionship, beautiful scenery, music and flowers, and all the
pleasures that art in its highest form can produce.

As the women at this period seem to be myths, no one takes the trouble to tell from whence
they came. It is sufficient that their husbands know, and it is not necessary that the casual
reader should. The question is often asked, whom did Cain marry? Some expositors say that Adam
and Eve had other sons and daughters living in different parts of the planet, and that they
married each other.

There seems to have been no scarcity of women, for Lamech, Cain's great grandson, took unto
himself two wives. Thus early in the history of the race polygamic relations were recognized.
The phraseology announcing the marriage of Lamech is very significant.

In the case of Adam and Eve the ceremony was more imposing and dignified. It was declared an
equal relation. But with the announcement of Lamech's, he simply took two wives, Adah and Zillah.
Whether the women were willingly captured will ever remain an open question. The manner in
which he is accustomed to issue his orders does not indicate a tender relation between the parties.

"Hear my voice: ye wives of Lamech, and hearken unto my speech!"

As the wives made no reply, it shows that they had already learned that discreet silence is
the only security for domestic happiness.

Naamah the sister of Tubal Cain was supposed to be the wife of Noah. Her name in Hebrew signifies
the beautiful or the gracious. Jewish doctors say her name is recorded here because she was
an upright, chaste woman, but others affirm the contrary because "the whole world wandered
after her." But the fact that Naamah's beauty attracted the multitude, does not prove that
she either courted or accepted their attentions.

The manner in which the writer of these chapters presents the women so in conflict with Chapters
i and v, which immediately precede and follow, inclines the unprejudiced mind to relegate the
ii, iii and iv chapters to the realm of fancy as no part of the real history of creation's dawn.

The curse pronounced on Cain is similar to that inflicted on Adam, both were to till the ground,
which was to bring forth weeds abundantly. Hale's statistics of weeds show their rapid and
widespread power of propagation. "A progeny," he says, "more than sufficient in a few years
to stock every planet of the solar system." In the face of such discouraging facts, Hale coolly
remarks. "Such provisions has the just God made to fulfil the curse which he promised on man."

It seems far more rational to believe that the curses on both woman and man were but figments
of the human brain, and that by the observance of natural laws, both labor and maternity may
prove great blessings.

With all the modern appliances of steam and electricity, and the new inventions in machinery,
the cultivation of the soil is fast coming to be a recreation and amusement. The farmer now
sits at ease on his plough, while his steed turns up the furrows at his will. With machinery
the sons of Adam now sow and reap their harvests, keep the wheels of their great manufactories
in motion, and with daily increasing speed carry on the commerce of the world. The time is
at hand when the heavy burdens of the laborer will all be shifted on the shoulders of these
tireless machines. And when the woman, too, learns and obeys the laws of life, these supposed
curses will be but idle dreams of the past. The curse falls lightly even now on women who live
in natural conditions, and with anaesthetics is essentially mitigated in all cases.

When these remedial agents were first discovered, some women refused to avail themselves of
their blessings, and some orthodox physicians refused to administer them, lest they should
interfere with the wise provisions of Providence in making maternity a curse.

E. C. S.

MYTHS OF CREATION.

Nothing would be more interesting in connection with the "Woman's Bible" than a comparative
study of the accounts of the creation held by people of different races and faiths. Our Norse
ancestors, whose myths were of a very exalted nature, recorded in their Bible, the Edda, that
one day the sons of Bor (a frost giant), Odin, Hoener, and Loder, found two trees on the sea
beach, and from them created the first human pair, man and woman. Odin gave them life and spirit,
Hoener endowed them with reason and motion, and Loder gave them the senses and physical characteristics.
The man they called Ask, and the woman Embla. Prof. Anderson finds in the brothers the threefold
Trinity of the Bible. It is easy to fancy that there is some philological connection between
the names of the first pair in the Bible and in the Edda. Perhaps the formation of the first
pair out of trees had a deep connection with the tree of life, Ygdrasil, which extended, according
to Norse mythology throughout the universe, furnishing bodies for mankind from its branches.
It had three great roots, one extending to the nebulous world, and this was constantly gnawed
by the serpent Nidhug. There was nothing in the Norse mythology that taught the degradation
of woman, and the lay of Sigdrifa, in the Edda, is one of the noblest conceptions of the character
of woman in all literature.

North American Indian mythology has the human race born of the earth, but the writer cannot
learn that women held an inferior place. Among the Quiches the mothers and fathers of old slept
in the waters, covered with green, under a limpid twilight, from which the earth and they were
called out by a mighty wind. The Algonkins believed the human family were the children of Michabo,
the spirit of the dawn, and their supreme deity. In their language the words earth, mother
and father were from the same root. Many tribes claim descent from a raven, symbolizing the
clouds; others from a dog, which is the symbol of the water goddess.

Dr. and Madame Le Plongeon relate that in their discoveries among the buried remains of the
Mayas in Yucatan, everything marks a very high state of civilization. In one of the exhumed
temples they found pictures on the walls, which seem to be a combination of the stories of
the Garden of Eden and Cain and Abel. The Serpent was always the royal emblem, because the
shape of Yucatan is that of a serpent ready to spring. It was the custom among the Mayas for
the oldest son of the king to be a priest, and the second son to marry the oldest daughter.
The pictures represent that the oldest son in this particular case was dissatisfied with this
arrangement, and wanted to marry the sister himself. To tempt her he sends a basket of apples
by a messenger. He stands watching the way in which the present is received, and the serpent
in the picture (indicating the royal family), makes it curiously suggestive of the temptation
of Eve. The sister, however, rejects the present, and this so enrages the elder brother that
he kills the younger, who accordingly is deified by the Mayas. The image of Chacmohl was discovered
by the Le Plongeons, and is now in the possession of the Mexican Government. Perhaps these
brothers were twins, as the commentator says Cain and Abel were, and that gave rise to the
jealousy.

Nothing can surpass in grandeur the account in the first chapter of Genesis of the creation
of the race, and it satisfies the highest aspirations and the deepest longings of the human
soul. No matter of what material formed, or through how many ages the formative period ran,
or is to run, the image of God is the birthright of man, male and female. Whatever the second
chapter may mean, it cannot set aside the first. It probably has a deep spiritual significance
which mankind will appreciate when cavilling about the letter ceases. To the writer's mind
its meaning is best expressed in the words of Goethe:--- "The eternal womanly leads us on."

C. B. C.

CHAPTER V.

Genesis v: 1, 2.

1.

Here we have the first account of the dual creation verified. Man and woman a simultaneous
creation, alike in the image of God.

The dual relation, both in the Godhead and humanity, is here again declared, though contradicted
in the intervening chapters. In this and the following chapters we have a prolix statement
of the births, deaths, and ages in the male line. They all take wives, beget sons, but nothing
is said of the origin or destiny of the wives and daughters; they are incidentally mentioned
merely as necessary factors in the propagation of the male line.

The men of this period seem to have lived to a ripe old age, but nothing is said of the age
of the women; it is probable as child- bearing was their chief ambition, that men had a succession
of wives, all gathered to their fathers in the prime of life. Although Eve and her daughters
devoted their energies to this occupation, yet the entire credit for the growth of the race
is given to Adam and his male descendants. In all this chapter the begetting of the oldest
son is made prominent, his name only is given, and the begetting of more "sons and daughters"
is cursorily mentioned. Here is the first suggestion of the law of primogeniture responsible
for so many of the evils that perplexed our Saxon fathers.

E. C. S.

Genesis vi: 1-8, 14-22.

8 But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord.

22 Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so did he.

The Jews evidently believed the males the superior sex. Men are called "the sons of God," women
"the daughters of men." From the text it would seem that the influence of the wives was not
elevating and inspiring, and that the sin and misery resulting from their marriages, all attributed
to the women. 'This condition of things so discouraged the Creator that he determined to blot
out both man and beast, the fowls of the air and the creeping things on the earth. How very
human this sounds. It shows what a low ideal the Jews had of the great first cause, from which
the moral and material world of thought and action were evolved.

It was in mature life, when chastened by the experiences and trials of her early day, that
Seth was born to Eve. It was among the descendants of Seth that purer morals and religion were
cultivated. Intermarriage with the descendants of Cain had corrupted the progeny, perplexed
the Creator, and precipitated the flood.

The female of each species of animal was preserved; males and females all walked into the ark
two by two, and out again in equal and loving companionship. It has been a question with critics
whether the ark was large enough for all it was supposed to contain. Commentators seem to agree
as to its capacity to accommodate men, women, children, animals, and the food necessary for
their preservation. Adam Clarke tells us that Noah and his family and the birds occupied the
third, story, so they had the benefit of the one window it contained.

The paucity of light and air in this ancient vessel shows that woman had no part in its architecture,
or a series of port holes would have been deemed indispensable. Commentators relegate all difficulties
to the direct intervention of Providence. The ark, made by unseen hands, like a palace of india
rubber, was capable of expanding indefinitely; the spirit of all good, caused the lion and
lamb to lie down peaceably together. To attribute all the myths, allegories, and parables to
the interposition of Providence, ever working outside of his own inexorable laws, is to confuse
and set at defiance human reason, and prevent all stimulus to investigation.

In several following chapters we have the history of Abram and Sarah, their wanderings from
the land of their nativity to Canaan, their blunders on the journey, their grief at having
no children, except one son by Hagar, his concubine, who was afterwards driven from their door,
into the wilderness. However, Sarah in her old age was blessed with a son of her own, which
event gave them great joy and satisfaction. As Sarah did not possess any of the heroic virtues,
worthy our imitation, we need not linger either to praise or blame her characteristics. Neither
she nor Abraham deemed it important to speak the truth when any form of tergiversation might
serve them. In fact the wives of the patriarchs, all untruthful, and one a kleptomaniac, but
illustrate the law, that the cardinal virtues are seldom found in oppressed classes.

E. C. S.

A careful study of the Bible would alter the views of many as to what it teaches about the
position of women. The trouble is too often instead of searching the Bible to see what is right,
we form our belief, and then search for Bible texts to sustain us, and are satisfied with isolated
texts without regard to context, and ask no questions as to the circumstances that may have
existed then but do not now. We forget that portions of the Bible are only histories of events
given as a chain of evidence to sustain the fact that the real revelations of the Godhead,
be it in any form, are true. Second, that our translators were not inspired, and that we have
strong presumptive proof that prejudice of education was in some instances stronger than the
grammatical context, in translating these contested points. For instance, the word translated
obey between husband and wife, is in but one instance in the New Testament the word used between
master and servant, parent and child, but is the word that in other places is translated defer.
The one instance states Sarah obeyed Abram. Read that history and you will find that in both
instances in which she obeyed, God had to interfere with a miracle to save them from the result
of that obedience, and both Abram and Sarah were reproved. While twice, once by direct command
of God, Abram obeyed Sarah. You cannot find a direct command of God or Christ for the wife
to obey the husband.

It was Eve's curse that her desire should be to her husband, and he should rule over her. Have
you not seen her clinging to a drunken or brutal husband, and read in letters of fire upon
her forehead her curse? But God did not say the curse was good, nor bid Adam enforce it. Nor
did he say, all men shall rule over thee. For Adam, not Eve, the earth was to bring forth the
thorn and the thistle, and he was to eat his bread by the sweat of his brow. Yet I never heard
a sermon on the sin of uprooting weeds, or letting Eve, as she does, help him to bear his burden.
It is when she tries to lighten her load that the world is afraid of sacrilege and the overthrow
of nature.

C. B. C.

In the story "of the sons of God, and the daughters of men"--we find a myth like those of Greek,
Roman and Scandinavian fable, demi-gods love mortal maidens and their offspring are giants.
Then follows the traditional account of some great cataclysm of the last glacial epoch. According
to the latest geological students, Wright, McGee and others; the records of Niagara, the falls
of St. Anthony and other glacial chasms, indicate that the great ice caps receded for the last
time about seven thousand years ago; the latest archeological discoveries carry our historical
knowledge of mankind back nearly four thousand years B. C., so that some record of the mighty
floods which must have followed the breaking of great glacial dams might well survive in the
stories of the nations.

Abram who came from Ur of the Chaldees brought with him the Chaldean story of the flood. At
that time Ur, now a town fifty miles inland, was a great seaport of the Persian gulf. Their
story of the flood is that of a maritime people; in it the ark is a well built ship, Hasisadra,
the Chaldean Noah takes on board not only his own family, but his neighbors and friends; a
pilot is employed to guide the course, and proper provision is made for the voyage. A raven
and a dove are sent out as in the biblical account, and a fortunate landing effected.

L. D. B.

CHAPTER VI.

Genesis xxi.

1 And the lord visited Sarah as he had said.

2. For Sarah bare Abraham a son in his old age.

3 And Abraham called the name of his son whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac.

9 And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had home unto Abraham, mocking.

12 And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight; in all that Sarah hath said
unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy seed be called.

15 And the water was spent in the bottle, and she cast the child under one of the shrubs.

17 And she went, and sat her down over against him a good way off: for she said, let me not
see the death of the child.

20 And God was with the lad; and he grew, and dwelt in the wilderness, and became an archer.

The great event of Isaac's birth having taken place, Sarah is represented through several chapters
as laughing, even in the presence of angels, not only in the anticipation of motherhood, but
in its realization. She evidently forgot that maternity was intended as a curse on all Eve's
daughters, for the sin of the first woman, and all merry-making on such occasions was unpardonable.
Some philosophers consider the most exalted of all forms of love to be that of a mother for
her children. But this divine awakening of a new affection does not seem to have softened Sarah's
heart towards her unfortunate slave Hagar. And so far from Sarah's desire being to her husband,
and Abraham dominating her, he seemed to be under her control, as the Lord told him "to hearken
to her voice, and to obey her command." In so doing he drives Hagar out of his house.

In this scene Abraham does not appear in a very attractive light, rising early in the morning,
and sending his child and its mother forth into the wilderness, with a breakfast of bread and
water, to care for themselves. Why did he not provide them with a servant, an ass laden with
provisions, and a tent to shelter them from the elements, or better still, some abiding, resting
place. Common humanity demanded this much attention to his own son and the woman who bore him.
But the worst feature in this drama is that it seems to have been done with Jehovah's approval.

Does any one seriously believe that the great spirit of all good talked with these Jews, and
really said the extraordinary things they report? It was, however, a very cunning way for the
Patriarchs to enforce their own authority, to do whatever they desired, and say the Lord commanded
them to do and say thus and so. Many pulpits even in our day enforce their lessons of subjection
for woman with the same authority, "Thus saith the Lord," "Thou shalt," and "Thou shall not."

E. C. S.

Genesis xxiii.

1 And Sarah was a hundred and seven and twenty years old.

7 And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the land.

14 And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him.

15 My lord, hearken unto me: the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver; what is that
betwixt me and thee? bury therefore thy dead.

20 And the field, and the cave that is therein, were made sure unto Abraham for a burying place
by the sons of Heth.

It is seldom that the age and death of any woman, are recorded by the sacred historian, but
Sarah seems to have been specially honored, not only in the mention of her demise and ripe
years, but in the tender manifestations of grief by Abraham, and his painstaking selection
of her burial place. That Abraham paid for all this in silver, "current money with the merchant,"
might suggest to the financiers of our day that our commercial relations might be adjusted
with the same coin, especially as we have plenty of it.

