A very young baby should be lifted from his bed by grasping the clothing below the feet with
the right hand, while the left hand slips underneath the back and with spreading fingers supports
the neck and head. It is then raised upon the left arm. During the early months the entire
spine must be supported in this manner (See Fig. 6). In grasping a baby under the arms or about
the waist, undue pressure is made upon the abdomen and chest. Serious injury often follows
the careless lifting of the older child by his wrists or hands. The throwing or whirling of
the older children by the arms is strongly condemned. Dislocations have followed such careless
so-called fun.

PREVENTION OF FALLS

In the selection of the high chair, care should be given to the possibility of overturning.
Fortunately, baby's bones are only partially ossified, else he would sustain many fractures
in the frequent falls and bumps. When we pause to consider the thoughtless manner in which
many babies are left on beds and in unguarded chairs, it is not strange that they fall so often.

Open windows must be carefully protected by well-fastened screens or by slats of wood. Beds
afford a good place for a romp or play, but high-backed chairs should be placed at the side
to prevent a fall. A strap across the waist should be fastened to the sides of the carriage
to prevent falling out. Everything possible should be done to prevent falls. Outdoor hammocks
are exceedingly dangerous for the baby. Never leave a child in one unguarded. A little caution,
a large amount of common sense--the "good use of brains"--will prevent scars and other lifelong
deformities.

THE BABY'S BREASTS

Never allow anyone to manipulate or "break down" a swollen breast in a girl or boy baby during
the first week or two. This swelling occurs often and should not be interfered with. A hot
compress of boracic acid solution may be applied, after which a piece of sterile gauze should
be placed over the swollen part and held on by a muslin bandage. Secure medical attention if
the swelling does not go down in a day or two.

VISITING

Unless absolutely necessary, babies should not be taken on trains and street cars; nor should
they take long journeys into the country to attend "reunions." Infections accompany crowds,
and baby is far better off at home, in the quiet of his natural surroundings, than he is in
the dust, closeness, and bustle of illy ventilated cars, streets, shops, movies, or even at
church. Many an infant has been sacrificed by a train journey to "show him off" to the fond
grandparents; scores of babies acquire whooping cough at the movies; and many a baby has nearly
lost his life by catching measles, scarlet fever, or diphtheria at church; while the only thing
accomplished by the church experiment was the spoiling of the entire service by its fretful,
tired cry--the infant's only means of protest.

THE RUNABOUT BABY

"Runabouts" are the little folks between the age of one and three years, and they require good
care, good feeding, and warm and comfortable dressing.

In general, they need the same fresh air, daily outings, and daily naps of the younger child.
Their hands need washing oftener, and their clothing, which is usually a play romper, should
be either of white or fast colors that it may be most thoroughly boiled, thus getting a good
disinfection. Their eyes, nose, and ears, as well as the genital organs, all require the most
rigid daily cleanliness.

The "bugbear" second summer need not be feared by the mother who takes particular care to see that:

  1.  The drinking water is boiled or distilled.
  2.  The orange is not overripe.
  3.  The banana is not underripe or overripe and is not eaten
      in chunks.
  4.  The milk is fresh and pasteurized.
  5.  The baby does not eat candy, ice cream, or other forbidden
      foods.
  6.  The baby's bowels move daily.
  7.  He does not remain dirty.
  8.  He naps daily.
  9.  He is protected from dust, flies, flees, and mosquitoes.
  10. He does not go visiting, to church, shops, or "movies."

The second summer is no harder than the first, as good clean water, easily digested foods,
and good general hygiene are all a baby needs at this time. A large army of little folks grow
up in spite of the little care they get and the place in which they live. Did they not possess
good vital resistance, sound nerves, and good digestion, the children of the "slums" and of
the "ghetto" would quickly succumb to their unhygienic surroundings.

TOYS

In selecting toys for the infant, it must be borne in mind that they will be put to the mouth,
and hence they should not be:

  1.  Toys with sharp points.
  2.  Small enough to swallow, or to push into the nose.
  3.  Covered with hair or wool.
  4.  Glass that is easily broken.
  5   Painted toys.
  6.  Toys that may be taken apart and the small parts swallowed.
  7.  Paper books that may be chewed or torn.

Bear in mind that babies are easily amused with such simple toys as:

  1. A half-dozen clothes pins.
  2. An aluminum pan and a spoon.
  3. Rubber toys (easily washed).
  4. Celluloid dolls, ducks, and other floating toys.
  5. Blocks.
  6. A large rubber ball.

The older children have wonderfully good times out of doors with a spade, a cart, and the sandpile.
Boys most thoroughly enjoy a track with its engine and cars, switches, etc. They build sham
fortifications, truly works of art, with their blocks, while the girls are happiest with dolls
and household sets. However, occasionally we meet a mother who has a girl who is really a boy
in her tastes for toys, and so we say to that mother: give the little girl the desire of her
heart; if it's a train instead of a doll, or a toy gun instead of a doll's trunk, well and
good, let her have them. What we want are free and easy, natural, children. They are much more
likely to have good nerves, clean thoughts, sound digestion, and equalized circulation.

CHAPTER XXIV

GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT

The newborn baby comes into the world in an absolutely helpless condition and completely unconscious
of his surroundings. He unconsciously performs certain acts, such as opening his eyes, crying,
urination, movement of the bowels, and even nursing of the breast; but there is probably no
distinct voluntary action connected with any of these acts. All of his senses at birth are
practically dormant, but as the days and weeks go by, they begin to awaken.

SPECIAL SENSES

The baby cries, but the tears do not actually flow over the lids until he is three or four
months old, and while the baby may fix his eyes upon objects and distinguish light from darkness,
he will not wink nor blink when the finger is brought close to the eye. Vision is probably
not complete until the beginning of the third month.

Infants are said to be deaf for the first twenty-four to forty-eight hours after birth, and
some authorities hold that they are deaf for several days.

Taste is early developed, as a newborn baby will often repeatedly show a desire to taste sweet
things, while if sour or bitter things are put to the tongue, it shows its displeasure.

HAIR AND SCALP

The newborn baby usually comes into the world with a good head of hair, but the end of the
first or second week witnesses the falling out of much of this hair, and falling may continue
for even another week or two. The hair is often worn off on the back of the head because of
constant friction upon the pillow.

Children differ greatly in the growth of hair. Some of them come into the world with heavy
hair, and others lose it quickly and remain nearly bald-headed until after the first year.

As the second hair grows in, it is usually lighter than it was at birth and lighter than it
will be later in life, as the hair has a tendency to grow darker as the years go by.

The scalp should receive the care already mentioned. As the hair comes in it should be shampooed
once in two weeks and brushed often, making it healthy and vigorous.

MISSHAPEN HEADS

It is wise to turn the baby first on one side and then on the other and not allow him to sleep
night after night on one side of his head. The newborn head may be misshapen by laying the
child constantly on one side, and the ear may be misshapen if it is allowed to curl under or
become pressed forward. Markedly protruding ears may be partially corrected by having the child
wear a well-ventilated cap made for the purpose.

THE SALIVA

Many mothers think that the presence of drooling or the excessive flow of saliva is associated
with teeth cutting. While it may be associated with the teeth, this is not usually the case;
it is more probably due to the beginning of a new function of secretion. The newborn baby has
only enough saliva to furnish moisture for the mouth, and not until the age of four or five
months does saliva really flow, and since the teeth appear a bit later we often confuse the
institution of a new secretion with the oncoming teeth.

SENSATIONS AND RECOGNITION

The young baby manifests a number of sensations early in its career. Hunger and satisfaction
as well as comfort and discomfort seem to be recognized by the little fellow. He early learns
that the approach of someone when he cries usually means that he is to be taken up, and he
usually ceases crying as soon as he is taken up. He early manifests a sense of comfort when
he is cuddled; there also is early present a manifestation of the desire to sleep, and the
satisfying pleasure of a drink of water.

At the age of three months he has recognized many things such as the light or a bright object.
He distinctly recognizes his mother and often smiles at her approach. He recognizes his hands
at four months, and now begins to recognize other members of the household aside from his mother.
Even as early as one month, he may smile at his mother. At two months of age he will often
smile at other members of the family. He laughs out loud or chuckles during the fourth or fifth
month. But, on the whole, he must be considered as just a little animal whose greatest needs
are to have his appetite and thirst satisfied, his little body clothed, and his little nerves
put to rest--to sleep.

SITTING ALONE

At four months the normal baby will hold up his head; and if he is supported at the back with
a pillow, he will sit erectly--holding his head up--at six months; while at eight months or
not later than nine, the normal child should sit alone on the floor with no support. Later
in the ninth month he often manifests a desire to bear his weight upon his feet. Care is here
urged that the mother protect the little fellow at this time and not allow him to rest his
weight upon his feet but a moment or two at a time.

He will reach for a ball suspended from the top of his carriage or bed as early as the fifth
month. About this time he discovers his toes while in his bath. He will handle a rattle at
six or seven months, and shows delight in such toys.

DENTITION

In both the upper and lower jawbones of the newborn infant there are hidden away in snug little
cavities two sets of tiny teeth; the first set, or milk teeth, and the second set, or permanent
teeth. These rudimentary teeth grow as the baby grows and push their way up or down from the
jawbones until they finally make their appearance through the gums. The milk teeth appear in
a definite way and in five definite groups.

There should be no physical disturbance at the appearance of the teeth, which is a physiological
process, and it is to be deplored that all of the ills of babyhood are laid upon the teeth
with the careless remark: "Oh, its his teeth!" Many, many illnesses are neglected because our
inexperienced mother has been told that she can expect "anything to happen when the baby is
cutting its teeth." Now, it is true that the babies of many families do have trouble in cutting
their teeth, but the majority of babies cut their teeth comfortably and the first knowledge
anyone has of it is the appearance of the tooth itself. As the teeth push their way nearer
the surface of the gums, there is a broadening and a hardening of the gums themselves, and
it is the exception rather than the rule that the baby needs any help in cutting his teeth.

Usually by the time the baby is seven months old it has two central teeth on the lower jaw
(the central incisors), which constitute the first group. The second group of teeth to appear
is the four upper central teeth which are all through by the time the baby is twelve months
old, and are often through at ten months. Then there is a pause of from one to three months
before the next teeth appear--the four anterior molars. As these four anterior molars come
in, the two lateral incisors appear on the lower jaw, which now gives us, by the time the baby
is fourteen or fifteen months old, four central teeth upper, four central teeth lower, and
the four anterior molars, which make twelve teeth.

Another pause of two or three months and then we get the four canine, which fill in the space
between the first molars and the front teeth. The canine on the upper jaw are commonly known
as the eye teeth, while the canine teeth on the lower jaw are spoken of as the stomach teeth.
This brings us to the age of eighteen to twenty-four months, when there is still another pause
of two or three months, after which time the big teeth or the four posterior molars appear,
which completes the first set of twenty teeth--the milk teeth. When baby is twenty months old
the milk teeth are often all in. The complete set should appear not later than the thirtieth month.

During the life of the milk teeth the child should be taken to the dentist at least once a
year, better once in six months, for all defective teeth must be properly and promptly cared
for. Inexpensive but sanitary fillings should be placed in all decayed teeth, for the roots
of the first teeth are very soft and infection readily spreads to the jaws and the permanent
teeth and serious trouble often begins thus early.

If dentition is seriously delayed, investigation should be started concerning the general condition
of the child, for this delay often accompanies ill health.

When the child is six years old, the mother should be watchful, for it is at this time that
the first permanent teeth appear just behind the last molar of the milk teeth. They do not
replace any of the teeth present, and many times they come through and decay without receiving
any attention. It is seldom necessary to assist these milk teeth as they come through the gum,
and should the gums become highly colored and swollen it is not wise to lance them, for if
the teeth are not ready to come through immediately, the gum only toughens the more and makes
the real cutting still more painful.

This is the time to cut down the baby's food as well as to look for other digestive disturbances,
for the number of stools may increase and vomiting may occur, and by reducing the quantity
and quality of the food and encouraging abundant water drinking, much trouble may be avoided.
Under no circumstances urge the baby to eat when he refuses his food, when the gums seem swollen
and red during the teething time. You will find that he will enjoy orange juice, pineapple
juice, or prune juice. All of these digestive symptoms are simply the result of "feeling bad,"
and if heavy food of his regular feeding is greatly diminished he will get along much better
than if fed his regular allowance of food.

APPEARANCE OF THE TEETH

The normal child has:

  Six teeth at one year.
  Twelve teeth at one and one-half years.
  Sixteen teeth at two years.
  Twenty teeth at two and one-half years.

When the child is six years old the first permanent tooth appears just back of the last of
the milk teeth. By the time he is seven, the four central teeth, two above and two below, are
out and the new ones begin to appear.

Often the baby finds comfort in biting on an ivory ring, but the utmost care must be used in
keeping it clean and avoiding contamination by allowing it to drop on the floor.

Convulsions are never the symptoms of teething. Consult a physician at once, as such seizures
probably spring from causes other than teething.

Cleansing of the teeth should be carried out systematically every morning by means of a piece
of cotton which has been dipped in a boric-acid solution or a solution of bicarbonate of soda
(common baking soda). A soft brush may be used for cleansing, and when there are particles
of food between the teeth they should be removed by strands of waxed floss.

Throughout life, frequent visits should be made to the dentist; during early childhood days
he should be on the lookout for symptoms which indicate deformity--narrow jaws and other conditions
which affect the permanent teeth. During adolescence and adult life the teeth should be examined
every six months and cleansings of the mouth should become a part of the daily toilet.

THE WEIGHT

During the first year, nothing gives us so much information concerning the child's general
well-being as the weight. Such a record will not only enlighten the mother concerning the development
of the child, but the grown-up child appreciates the record and preserves it along with the
other archives of babyhood days. Every Sunday morning, when the father is at home, the baby
should be weighed and an accurate record kept. It is important that the baby be weighed each
time in the same garments--shirt, band, diaper, and stockings--for every ounce must be accounted
for.

Until the baby is five or six months old he should gain from four to eight ounces a week. Anything
short of this is not enough and should be reported to the physician. After six months the gain
is about a pound each month. This varies somewhat; possibly during the tenth and eleventh month
the gain is lessened, but by the close of the first year the baby should have trebled its birth
weight.

Dr. Griffith gives us the following very interesting bit of information concerning the weight
of boys and girls after the first year, and to him also belongs the credit for the accompanying
table showing the growth, height, and weight of the child up to sixteen years of age.

     After the first year we notice that, taking it all together,
     there is a gradual increase in the number of pounds and a
     decrease in the number of inches added yearly, four inches being
     gained in both the second and third years, three inches in the
     fourth and fifth years, and after this two inches a year. The
     gain in weight is four pounds yearly from the age of three to
     that of seven years, then five, then six, and then about nine
     pounds. It sometimes happens that at about the age of nine in
     girls and eleven in boys there is almost a cessation of growth
     for a short time. Later, at about twelve years, girls take on a
     particularly rapid growth, and decidedly exceed boys of the same
     age in weight, and sometimes in height also. At fifteen or
     sixteen years the rapidity of growth in girls, both in weight and
     height, will be greatly diminished, while boys of this age will
     often begin to develop very rapidly, and will soon materially
     exceed the other sex in both respects.

TABLE SHOWING GROWTH IN HEIGHT AND WEIGHT

  Age.      Height.         Weight.

  Birth     19 inches.      7     lbs.  8     oz.
  1 week                    7      "    7½     "

  2 weeks                   7      "   10½     " } Gained 1 oz.
  3 weeks                   8      "    2      " } a day;
  1 month   20½    inches   8¾     "             } 7 oz. a week
  2 months  21       "     10¾     "             }

  3 months  22       "     12¼     " } {Gained 3/4 oz. a day;
  4 months  23       "     13¾     " } {5-1/2 oz. a week.

  5 months  23½      "     15      " } {Double original weight.
  6 months  24       "     16¼     " } {Gained 2/3 oz. a day;
                                       {4-2/3 oz. a week.
                                       {
  7 months  24½      "     17¼     " } {
  8 months  25       "     18¼     " } {Gained 1/2 in. a month.
  9 months  25½      "     18¾     " } {
  10 months 26       "     19¾     " } {Gained about 1 lb. a month.
  11 months 26½      "     20½     " } {
  1 year    27       "     21½     " } {Treble original weight.

  2 years   31       "     27      " } {
  3 years   35       "     32      " } {Gain 4 in. a year.

  4 years   37½      "     36      " } Double original length.
  5 years   40       "     40      " } {Gained 3 in. and 4 lbs.
                                     } {a year.

  6 years   43       "     44      " } {Gained 2 in and 4 lbs.
  7 years   45       "     48      " } {a year.

  8 years   47       "     53      " } {Gained 2 in. and 5 lbs.
  9 years   49       "     58      " } {a year.

  10 years  51       "     64      " } {Gained 2 in. and 6 lbs.
  11 years  53       "     70      " } {a year.

  12 years  55       "     79      " }
  13 years  57       "     88      " }
  14 years  59       "    100      " } {Gained 2 inches and
  15 years  61       "    109      " } {about 9 lbs. a year.
  16 years  63       "    117      " }

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT

The accompanying illustration (Fig. 14), taken from Dr. Yale, represents the developmental
changes at one, five, nine, thirteen, seventeen, and twenty-one years. Each figure is divided
into four equal parts, and as we watch the development from the baby who at one year, as Dr.
Yale says, is four heads high, at the age of twenty-one the legs and the trunk have much outgrown
the growth of the head, so that at this age the head is only two-thirteenths or less of the
whole length of the body. The legs have grown more rapidly and equal one-half the entire body
length. The trunk has not kept pace with the legs, for as you will see from the diagram the
line reaches the navel of the child in one year, while in the adult it is much lower. The rapid
growth of the legs is accomplished after nine years of age.

The proportions of the head, chest, and abdomen are exceedingly important in the growing child.
At the end of the first year the head, chest, and abdomen are about uniform in circumference.
The head may measure one-fourth of an inch more, but the chest and abdomen should both measure
eighteen inches in circumference at this time. Should the head or the abdomen be two inches
larger than the chest; the attention of the physician should be called to it, for either are
indicative of conditions that should be carefully investigated.

NORMAL BREAST WEANING

As a general rule the normal, healthy, breast-fed baby is given a feeding of a bottle each
day after he is ten months old. These bottles are increased in number until, by the time the
baby is a year old, he is gradually weaned from the breast. Should the ninth month of baby's
life arrive in the hot summer months we urge the mothers to continue breast feeding, with possibly
the addition of some fruit juices, as noted elsewhere, until early autumn. Under no circumstances
should the baby be weaned and compelled to use cow's milk during the season of the year when
the risks of contamination are greatest. If the baby is nursed up to the close of his first
year he hardly need be trained to use the bottle, but may take his food from a cup. From one
to two months should always be consumed in weaning the baby, unless sudden weaning is necessitated
by ill health, as noted elsewhere. The baby should have, if possible, from thirty to forty
days to accustom himself to cow's milk exclusively.

If the child is weaned slowly there should be no trouble with the breasts, but in the instance
of sudden weaning the mother should restrict her liquids, put on a tight breast binder, and
for a day or two should take a dose of a saline cathartic, which will assist in taking care
of the liquids and thus decrease the secretion of milk.

NORMAL BOTTLE WEANING

If the bottle food is agreeing with the baby he should be allowed to use it up to the end of
the first year when he will be given whole milk with possibly the addition of a little lime
water. We see no reason why the child should give up his bottle during the second year unless
other food is refused--unless he will not accept other food than from his bottle--and if you
are convinced that he has formed the "bottle habit," then the milk should be put into a tiny
cup or glass, and he should learn to sip it along with his solid foods; but if he takes his
other foods without any hesitancy, then we know no reason why he should not take his milk in
this comfortable manner from his bottle at least two or three feedings each day.

If you desire to wean him from his bottle, serve the first part of it with a spoon from a cup
or glass and then give him the remainder in the bottle. The beautiful picture of a big, robust
baby lying on his back, knees flexed, both hands holding his beloved bottle still lingers in
my mind as one of the pleasant memories of my lad's babyhood days, and at the close of the
second year, when the beloved bottle was left behind, I believe I missed something as well
as did the lad.

I recall no difficulty with his taking the food from a cup. The success of all normal weanings
is due entirely to the fact that it is done gradually and slowly, and under no circumstances
should it be roughly and abruptly attempted--particularly in case of the bottle feeding.

TRAINING THE BOWELS AND BLADDER

Reference is made to this subject in another part of this book--where we went into the detail
of keeping the daily record of these physiological occurrences--and it was found that the bowels
moved and the bladder was emptied at about the same time each day. Any mother, caretaker, or
nurse, who will take the time to keep a daily record of the hours of defecation and urination,
will observe the time carefully and will catch the child on nearly every occasion before an
accident occurs. Often as early as four months the bowels will move in an infant's chamber
at regular times each day. The nurse or mother places this receptacle in her lap and holds
the child gently and carefully upon it. A little later it can be made to sit on a special chair
prepared for the purpose, and at eight or nine months by careful training the urination can
be controlled, and by the end of the first year the diapers ought to be discontinued.

If the child has not learned to control the bladder by the age of two years, medical attention
should be called to the fact and remedial measures instituted.

BABY'S SPEECH

The baby should begin to talk at one year. He early learns to say "mamma" and "papa," and gradually
adds nouns to his vocabulary, so that at eighteen months the normal child should have a vocabulary
of one hundred to one hundred and fifty words. As he nears the two-year mark, he has acquired
a few simple verbs and he can possibly put three words together, such as, "Willie wants drink."
Pronouns come in late, as we all recall that the young child usually speaks of himself by his
own name.

Children are born mimics. If you talk baby talk to them, they will talk baby talk back. For
instance, a well known author told us just the other day that for many years no other name
was given to the sewing machine in his house but the word "mafinge," and not until he went
to school did he correct the word "bewhind," for in the nursery he learned the line "wagging
their tails bewhind them." Baby talk is very cunning, and often the adult members of the family
pick it up and keep it up for years, and only when they are exposed in public, as one mother
was on a suburban platform by her four-year-old lad shouting, "Mamma, too-too tain tumin, too-too
tain tumin," do they sense their responsibility and realize how difficult it is to form new
habits. This poor mother tried in vain to have her little fellow say, as did another little
lad two and one-half years old, "Mother, the train's coming; let's get on."

Many words of our beloved language at best are hard to understand; so let us speak correct
English to the little folks and they will reward us by speaking good English in return.

If at two years the child makes no attempt at speech, suspicions should be aroused concerning
mutism or other serious nervous defects. Medical advice should be sought.

DEFECTIVE SPEECH

All guttural tones which may be occasioned by adenoids or enlarged tonsils, all lisping, stuttering,
or defective speech of all words should be taken in hand at the very start, as they are usually
overcome by constant repetition of the correct manner of speaking the particular word in question.
Children of defective speech need special training, and should in no way be allowed rapidly
to repeat little nursery rhymes, as oftentimes this rapid repetition of rhymes by a child with
hereditary nervous defects may occasion stuttering or stammering later on.

CALISTHENICS

Special exercise should not be forced upon young children. Physical culture, along with many
other things intended for sedentary adults, should never be forced upon little folks who get
all of the exercise they need in the many journeys they take building their blocks, sailing
their boats, tearing down imaginary houses, making imaginary journeys--from morning until night
the little feet are kept busy--never stopping until the sandman comes at sleepy time. Do not
yourself attempt to stimulate a child who seems backward. Consult your physician. You had much
better put a child out to grow up in the yard by himself with his sandpile than to force calisthenics
or advance physical training upon him.

BOW LEGS AND WALKING

Do not attempt to hasten nature in aiding the child to walk. Let him creep, roll, slide, or
even hunch along the floor--wait until he pulls himself to his feet and gradually acquires
the art of standing alone. If he is overpersuaded to take "those cute little steps" it may
result in bow legs, and then--pity on him when he grows up. Sometimes flat foot is the result
of early urging the child to rest the weight of the body upon the undeveloped arch. A defect
in the gait or a pigeon toe is hard to bear later on in life. A certain amount of pigeon-toeing
is natural and normal. If the baby is heavy he will not attempt to walk at twelve months. He
will very likely wait until fourteen or fifteen months. The lighter-weight children sometimes
walk as early as eleven months, but they should all be walking at eighteen months, and if not,
it is usually indicative of backward mentality.

If the training of the bowels and bladder will replace the diapers with drawers, the baby will
attempt to walk sooner than when encumbered with a bunglesome bunch of diaper between the thighs.
The little fellow runs alone at sixteen months and thoroughly enjoys it, and the wise mother
will pay no attention to the small bumps which are going to come plentifully at this particular
time.

SUMMARY OF BABY'S DEVELOPMENT

He discovers his hands at three or four months. At six months he sits alone, plays with simple
objects, grasps for objects, and laughs aloud from the third to the fifth month. He says "goo
goo" at four or five months. At one year he should stand with support, listen to a watch tick,
follow moving objects, know his mother, play little games, such as rolling a ball, should have
trebled his birth weight, and have at least six teeth, and should use three words in short
sentences. At eighteen months he should say "mamma" spontaneously, walk and run without support,
should have quite a vocabulary, should be able to perform small errands like "pick up the book,"
and should have twelve to sixteen teeth. At two years he should be interested in pictures,
able to talk intelligently, and know where his eyes, nose, mouth, hands, and feet are. At three
years, he should enumerate the objects in a picture, tell his surname, and repeat a sentence
with six words.

In the case of a premature baby or a very delicate child, or as a result of a prolonged illness
or a very severe sickness, such as spinal meningitis, the time of these mental and physical
developments may all be postponed, while rickets, which will be spoken of later, is often the
cause of late sitting, late standing, and late walking.

DIET AFTER THE FIRST YEAR

Milk is the principal article of diet during the second year. It should be given with regularity
at distinct intervals of four meals a day. It may be given from the nursing bottle, unless
the child has acquired the bottle habit and refuses to eat anything else but the food from
his bottle, in which case it should be given from a cup. Beginning with the sixth month, aside
from his milk, be it breast milk or bottle milk, he is to be given orange juice once each day
as well as the broth from spinach and other vegetables. This is necessary to give the child
certain salts which are exceedingly essential to the bottle baby.

At the close of the year when he is taking whole milk he should be given arrowroot cracker,
strained apple sauce, prune pulp, fig pulp, mashed ripe banana (mashed with a knife), a baked
potato with sauce or gravy (avoiding condiments), and a coddled egg. Fruit juices may be added
to the diet, such as grape, pineapple, peach, and pear juice. Later in the second year he may
be given stale bread and butter, and for desserts he may have cup custard, slightly sweetened
junket, and such fruit desserts as baked apple and baked pear.

We do not think it is necessary to give children much meat or meat juices. We appreciate that
there is a diversity of opinion upon this subject, but we do not hesitate to say that in the
families where meat is little used, the children seem to grow up in the normal manner with
sound healthy bodies, sometimes having never tasted it. When meat is used, it should be well
cooked to avoid contamination with such parasites as tapeworm and trichina; it should also
be well chewed before swallowing, as many of the intestinal disturbances of the older children
are due to the swallowing of unmasticated food such as half-chewed banana, chunks of meat,
rinds of fruit, and the skins of baked potatoes.

Let the children's diet be simply planned, well cooked, thoroughly masticated, and above all
things have regular meal hours, and no "piecing" between meals; and if the mother begins thus
early with her little fellow, she will be rewarded some later day by hearing him say to some
well-meaning neighbor, who has just given him a delicious cookie or a bit of candy: "Thank
you, I will keep it until meal time." Children learn one of the greatest lessons of self control
in following the teaching that nothing should pass the lips between meals but water or a fruit-ade.
Children in the second year require four meals a day, one of which is usually only the bottle
or a cup of milk. These meals are usually taken at six, ten, two, and six in the evening. Oftentimes
this early six o'clock meal is just a bottle or cup of milk, as may also be the evening meal.

CANDY

Now, a word about candy. Pure candy is wholesome and nourishing. It is high in calorific value,
and children should be allowed to have it if it does not enter the stomach in solutions stronger
than ten or fifteen per cent. We can see at a glance that chocolate creams, bonbons, and other
soft candies should never be given to children. Candies that they can suck, such as fruit tablets,
stick candy, sunshine candy, and other hard confections that are pure, and free from mineral
colorings and other concoctions such as are commonly used in the cheaper candies, may safely
be given at the close of the meals--but never between meals.

All such articles as tea, coffee, beer, soft candies, condiments, pastries, and fried foods,
should be positively avoided in the case of all children under five and six years of age.

The diet from now on will be considered in the chapter "Diet and Nutrition."

PART III

THE CHILD

PART III

THE CHILD

CHAPTER XXV

THE SICK CHILD

To the mother who has passed through the experience of bringing the child into the world is
usually given that intuitiveness which helps her in caring for that child when it is well and
in recognizing certain symptoms when it is sick. The newborn baby brings with him a large responsibility,
but as the weeks pass by his care becomes less and less of a nervous strain, as the routine
duties, so nearly alike each day of his little life, have made the task comparatively easy;
but when the baby gets sick, particularly if he is under one year of age, and it is impossible
for him clearly to make known his wants, and being unable to tell where it hurts or how badly
it hurts, the average mother is likely to become somewhat panicky; and this confusion of mind
often renders her quite unfit successfully to nurse the sick baby.

THE NURSE

It is often wise to secure the services of a trained nurse, and if the family purse will allow
such services, a good, sincere, capable, practical nurse should be engaged, for her firm kindness
will often accomplish much more than the unintentional irritability and anxious solicitude
of an overworked and nervous mother.

Usually the mother not only attempts the care of the sick baby with the long night vigil--often
not having the opportunity to take a bath or change her raiment day in and day out--but she
often attempts to manage the entire household as well, including the getting of the meals and
keeping the house cleaned, and it is not to be wondered at that her nerves become overtaxed
and in an unlooked for moment she becomes irritable and cross with the sick child.

No matter how low the financial conditions of the family may be, outside help is always essential
in cases of severe or long-continued illness of the children. Should the mother insist upon
caring for the baby herself, then all household duties should be given over to outside help,
and as she takes the rôle of the nurse, the same daily outing and sleep that an outside nurse
would receive should be hers to enjoy.

Dr. Griffith has so ably detailed the "features of disease" that we can do no better than to
quote the following:[A]

[A] From Griffith's Care of the Baby, copyrighted by W. B. Saunders Company.

     POSITION

     The position assumed in sickness is a matter of importance. A
     child feverish or in pain is usually very restless even when
     asleep. When awake it desires constantly to be taken up, put down
     again, or carried about. Sometimes, however, at the beginning of
     an acute disease it lies heavy and stupid for a long time. In
     prolonged illnesses and in severe acute disorders the great
     exhaustion is shown by the child lying upon its back, with its
     face turned toward the ceiling, in a condition of complete
     apathy. It may remain like a log, scarcely breathing for days
     before death takes place. Perfect immobility may also be seen in
     children who are entirely unconscious although not exhausted.

     A constant tossing off of the covers at night occurs early in
     rickets, but, of course, is seen in many healthy infants,
     especially if they are too warmly covered. A baby shows a desire
     to be propped up with pillows or to sit erect or to be carried in
     the mother's arms with its head over her shoulder whenever
     breathing is much interfered with, as in diphtheria of the larynx
     and in affections of the heart and lungs. The constant assumption
     of one position or the keeping of one part of the body still, may
     indicate paralysis. When, however, a cry attends a forcible
     change of position, it shows that the child was still because
     movement caused pain.

     Sleeping with the mouth open and the head thrown back often
     attends chronic enlargement of the tonsils and the presence of
     adenoid growths in young children, although it may be seen in
     other affections which make breathing difficult. In inflammation
     of the brain the head is often drawn far back and held stiffly
     so. Sometimes, too, in this disease the child lies upon one side
     with the back arched, the knees drawn up, and the arms crossed
     over the chest. A constant burying of the face in the pillow or
     in the mother's lap occurs in severe inflammation of the eyes.

     GESTURES

     The gestures are often indicative of disease. Babies frequently
     place the hands near the seat of pain; thus in slight
     inflammation of the mouth they tend to put the hand in the mouth;
     in earache to move it to the ear; and in headache to raise it to
     the head. In headache or in affections of the brain they
     sometimes pluck at the hair or the ears, although they may often
     do this when there is no such trouble. Picking at the nose or at
     the opening of the bowel is seen in irritation of the intestine
     from worms or oftener from other cause. A child with a painful
     disease of its chest may sometimes place its hand on its abdomen,
     or a hungry child try to put its fists into its mouth.

     In approaching convulsions the thumbs are often drawn tightly
     into the palms of the hands and the toes are stiffly bent or
     straightened. Very young babies, however, tend to do this,
     although healthy. The alternate doubling up and straightening of
     the body, with squirming movements, making of fists, kicking, and
     crying, are indications of colic. This is especially true if the
     symptoms come on suddenly and disappear as suddenly, perhaps
     attended by the expulsion of gas from the bowel.

     SKIN COLOR

     The color of the skin is often altered in disease. It is yellow
     in jaundice, and is bluish, especially over the face, in
     congenital heart disease. There is a purplish tint around the
     eyes and mouth, with a prominence of the veins of the face, in
     weakly children or in those with disordered digestion. A pale
     circle around the mouth accompanies nausea. The skin frequently
     acquires an earthy hue in chronic diarrhea, and is pale in any
     condition in which the blood is impoverished, as in Bright's
     disease, rickets, consumption, or any exhausted state. Flushing
     of the face accompanies fever, but besides this there is often
     seen a flushing without fever in older children the subjects of
     chronic disorders of digestion. Sudden flushing or paling is
     sometimes seen in disease of the brain.

     FACIAL EXPRESSION

     The expression of the face varies with the disease. In whooping
     cough and measles the face is swollen and somewhat flushed,
     giving the child a heavy, stupid expression. There is also
     swelling of the face, especially about the eyes, in Bright's
     disease. Repeated momentary crossing of the eyes often indicates
     approaching convulsions. In very severe acute diarrhea it is
     astonishing with what rapidity the face will become sunken and
     shriveled, and so covered with deep lines that the baby is almost
     unrecognizable. The same thing occurs more slowly in the
     condition commonly known as marasmus. Often the face has an
     expression of distress in the beginning of any serious disease.
     If the edges of the nostrils move in and out with breathing, we
     may suspect some difficulty of respiration, such as attends
     pneumonia. The baby sleeps with its eyes half open in exhausted
     conditions or when suffering pain.

     THE HEAD

     The head exhibits certain noteworthy features. Excessive
     perspiration when sleeping is an early symptom of rickets. It
     must be remembered, however, that any debilitated child may
     perspire more or less when asleep. Both in rickets and in
     hydrocephalus (water on the brain) the face seems small and the
     head large, but in the former the head is square and flat on top,
     while in the latter it is of a somewhat globular shape. The
     fontanelle is prominent and throbs forcibly in inflammation of
     the brain, is too large in rickets and hydrocephalus, bulges in
     the latter affection, and sometimes sinks in conditions with only
     slight debility.

     THE CHEST

     The chest exhibits a heaving movement with a drawing in of the
     spaces between the ribs in any disease in which breathing is
     difficult. A chicken-breasted chest is seen in Pott's disease of
     the spine, and to some extent in bad cases of enlargement of the
     tonsillar tissue; a "violin-shaped" chest in rickets; a bulging
     of one side in pleurisy with fluid; and a long, narrow chest,
     with a general flattening of the upper part, in older children
     predisposed to consumption.

     THE ABDOMEN

     The abdomen is swollen and hard in colic. It is also much
     distended with gas in rickets, and is constantly so in chronic
     indigestion in later childhood. It is usually much sunken in
     inflammation of the brain or in severe exhausting diarrhea or
     marasmus. It may be distended with liquid in some cases of
     dropsy.

     THE CRY

     The study of the cry furnishes one of the most valuable means of
     learning what ails a baby. A persistent cry may be produced by
     the intense, constant itching of eczema.

     The paroxysmal cry, very severe for a time and then ceasing
     absolutely, is probably due to colic, particularly if accompanied
     by the distention of the abdomen and the movements of the body
     already referred to. A frequent, peevish, whining cry is heard in
     children with general poor health or discomfort. A single shrill
     scream uttered now and then is often heard in inflammation of the
     brain. In any disease in which there is difficulty in getting
     enough air into the lungs, as in pneumonia, the cry is usually
     very short and the child cries but little, because it cannot hold
     its breath long enough for it. A nasal cry occurs with cold in
     the head.

     A short cry immediately after coughing indicates that the cough
     hurts the chest. Crying when the bowels are moved shows that
     there is pain at that time. A child of from two to six years,
     waking at night with violent screaming, is probably suffering
     from night terrors. In conditions of very great weakness and
     exhaustion the baby moans feebly, or it may twist its face into
     the position for crying, but emit no sound at all. This latter is
     also true in some cases of inflammation of the larynx, while in
     other cases the cry is hoarse or croupy. Crying when anything
     goes into the mouth makes one suspect some trouble there. If it
     occurs with swallowing, it is probable that the throat is
     inflamed.

     With the act of crying there ought always to be tears in children
     over three or four months of age. If there are none, serious
     disease is indicated, and their reappearance is then a good sign.

     COUGHING

     The character of the cough is also instructive. A frequent, loud,
     nearly painless cough, at first tight and later loose, is heard
     in bronchitis. A short, tight, suppressed cough, which is
     followed by a grimace, and, perhaps, by a cry, indicates some
     inflammation about the chest, often pneumonia. There is a brazen,
     barking, "croupy" cough in spasmodic croup. In inflammation of
     the larynx, including true croup, the cough may be hoarse,
     croupy, or sometimes almost noiseless.

     The cough of whooping cough is so peculiar that it must be
     described separately when considering this disease. Then there
     are certain coughs which are purely nervous or dependent upon
     remote affections. Thus the so-called "stomach cough" is caused
     by some irritation of the stomach or bowels. It is not nearly so
     frequent as mothers suppose. Irritation about the nose or the
     canal of the ears sometimes induces a cough in a similar way.
     Enlarged tonsils or elongated palate or throat irritation may
     also produce a cough.

     THE BREATHING

     The breathing of a young child, particularly if under one year of
     age and awake, is always slightly irregular. If it becomes very
     decidedly so, we suspect disease, particularly of the brain. A
     combination of long pauses, lasting half a minute or a minute,
     with breathing which is at first very faint, gradually becomes
     more and more deep, and then slowly dies away entirely, goes by
     the name of "Cheyne-Stokes respiration," and is found in
     affections of the brain. It is one of the worst of symptoms
     except in infancy, and even then it is very serious.

     The rate of respiration is increased in fever in proportion to
     the height of the temperature. It is increased also by pain in
     rickets, and especially in some affections of the lungs. Sixty
     respirations a minute are not at all excessive for a child of two
     years with pneumonia, and the speed is frequently decidedly
     greater than this.

     Breathing is often very slow in disease of the brain,
     particularly tubercular meningitis. Poisoning by opiates produces
     the same effect. Frequent deep sighing or yawning occurs in
     affections of the brain, in faintness, or in great exhaustion,
     and may be a very unfavorable symptom. Breathing entirely through
     the mouth shows that the nose is completely blocked, while
     snuffling breathing is the result of a partial catarrhal
     obstruction. A gurgling in the throat not accompanied by cough
     may indicate that there is mucus in the back part of it, the
     result of an inflammation, sometimes slight, sometimes serious.

     "Labored" breathing, in which the chest is pulled up with each
     breath while the muscles of the neck become tense, the pit of the
     stomach and the spaces between the ribs sink in, and the edges of
     the nostrils move in and out, is seen in conditions where the
     natural ease of respiration is greatly interfered with, as in
     pneumonia, diphtheria of the larynx, asthma, and the like.
     Long-drawn, noisy inspirations and expirations are heard in
     obstruction of the larynx, as from laryngeal diphtheria or
     spasmodic croup.

     THE PULSE

     The rate of the pulse is subject to such variations in infants
     that its examination is of less value than it would otherwise be.
     In early childhood its observation is of more service, although
     even then deceptive. Slight irregularity is not uncommon. Unusual
     irregularity is an important symptom in affections of the brain
     or heart. Fever produces an increase in the pulse rate, the
     degree of which depends, as a rule, upon the height of the
     temperature. Slowing of the pulse is a very significant symptom,
     seen particularly in affections of the brain, and sometimes in
     Bright's disease and jaundice.

     THE TEMPERATURE

     The temperature is of all things important to remember in infancy
     and childhood because fever is easily produced and runs high from
     slight causes.

     Even slight cold or the presence of constipation or slight
     disturbances of digestion may in babies sometimes produce a
     temperature of 103 F. or more. We do not speak of fever unless
     the elevation reaches 100 F. A temperature of 102 or 103 F.
     constitutes moderate fever, while that of 104 or 105 F. is high
     fever, and above 105 F. very high. A temperature of 107 F. is
     very dangerous, and is usually not recovered from. The danger
     from fever depends not only upon its height, but upon its
     duration also. An elevation of 105 F. may be easily borne for a
     short time, but it becomes alarming if much prolonged.

     THE MOUTH

     The tongue of newborn infants is generally whitish and continues
     to be so until the saliva becomes plentiful. After this we
     usually find it coated in disturbances of the stomach and bowels
     and in nearly any disorder accompanied by fever. In scarlet fever
     the tongue becomes bright red after a few days, and in measles
     and whooping cough it is often faintly bluish. In the latter
     affection an ulcer may sometimes be found directly under the
     tongue, where the thin membrane binds it to the floor of the
     mouth. In thrush the tongue is covered with white patches like
     curdled milk. A pale, flabby tongue, marked by the teeth at its
     edges, indicates debility or impaired digestion. In prolonged or
     very high fever the tongue grows dry, and in some diseases of the
     stomach or bowels it may look like raw beef.

     Grinding of the teeth is a frequent symptom in infants in whom
     dentition has commenced. It generally indicates an irritated
     nervous system. Most often this depends upon some disturbance of
     digestion; less often upon the presence of worms. The symptom is
     present during or preceding a convulsion, and may occur, too, in
     disease of the brain. In some babies it appears to be only a
     nervous habit.

     NURSING

     The manner of nursing or swallowing frequently affords important
     information. A baby whose nose is much obstructed or who has
     pneumonia can nurse but for a moment, and then has to let the
     nipple go in order to breathe more satisfactorily. If it gives a
     few sucks and then drops the nipple with a cry, we must suspect
     that the mouth is sore and that nursing is painful. If it
     swallows with a gurgling noise, often stops to cough, and does as
     little nursing as possible, we suspect that the throat may be
     sore. The ceasing to nurse at all, in the case of a very sick
     baby, is an evidence of great weakness or increasing stupor, and
     is a most unfavorable symptom.

     THE URINE

     Urine that is high-colored and stains the diaper, or that shows a
     thick, reddish cloud after standing, may accompany fever or
     indigestion. Sometimes the urine under these conditions is milky
     when first passed. In some babies a diet containing beef juice or
     other highly nitrogenous food will produce the reddish cloud, or
     even actual, red, sandlike particles. A decidedly yellow stain on
     the diaper occurs when there is jaundice. A faint reddish stain
     seldom indicates blood. The amount of urine passed is scanty in
     fever, in diarrhea, and especially in acute Bright's disease. In
     the latter disease the urine is often of a smoky or even a muddy
     appearance. The possibility of the occurrence of this symptom
     after scarlet fever must always be kept in mind, in order that a
     physician may be summoned very quickly, since it is a serious
     matter.

     THE STOOLS

     We find that the passages are often putty-colored in disorders of
     the liver, frequently bloody or tarry in appearance in bleeding
     within the bowel, and liable to be black after taking bismuth,
     charcoal, or iron, and red after krameria, kino, or haematoxylon.
     Infants who are receiving more milk than they can digest
     constantly have whitish lumps in their stools, or even entirely
     formed but almost white passages. The presence of a certain
     amount of greenish coloration of the passages is not infrequent.
     This is usually an evidence of indigestion, but passages which
     are yellow when passed and turn to a faint pea green some time
     later are not an indication of disease.

WHEN BABY GETS SICK

When baby shows that he is sick, take his temperature as directed elsewhere, cut down the feeding
to at least one half, or, if his temperature is around 102 F. give him nothing but rice water
or barley water. If he is constipated give him a cleansing enema, and if hot and feverish a
sponge bath may be administered. He should then be put into a bed with light covers and wait
further orders which the doctor will give on his arrival. Give the baby no medicine unless
ordered to do so by the physician.

Known to every physician who undertakes the care of children, is the failure of many well-meaning
mothers to call him early. The mother attempts the care of the baby herself, and not until
the condition gets beyond her knowledge and wisdom does she seek medical advice. In the early
hours of an approaching cold, the beginning of intestinal indigestion, or at the beginning
of bronchitis, if the physician can see the child early, prolonged illness may be avoided as
well as unnecessary expense and many heart-breaking experiences.

FEEDING THE SICK BABY

Feeding the sick baby differs somewhat with the character of the individual disease, but in
the outset of any and all diseases the intestinal tract should not be overburdened with food.
At the approach of any illness, the food should at least be cut down one half; for instance,
in the case of a serious acute illness accompanied by fever, not only should the strength of
the food be reduced one half, but water should be given plentifully between feedings. It is
better never to urge the baby to eat at such times--for the ability to digest food is very
much reduced.

In cases of acute attacks with much vomiting and fever, all milk should be immediately stopped
and rice water or barley water substituted. When vomiting ceases and the fever approaches normal
and food is desired, begin with boiled skim milk in small amounts, well diluted with cereal
water, and do not approach the normal amount of milk for twenty-four to forty-eight hours.
In this way the weak digestive organs are not overtaxed and they gradually resume their usual
work of good digestion. When a baby seems to have no appetite for food, lengthen the intervals
from three to four or five hours, for feeding when food is not desired usually aggravates disease
disturbances.

EXAMINING SICK CHILDREN

And now, above all times, the early seed sowing of teaching the child self-control, teaching
him to gargle if he is sufficiently old enough, to open his mouth and allow observation without
resistance, brings sure results. The great harm of making the doctor and his medicine a threat
to obtain obedience also brings its harvest at this time; for the doctor, of all people, ought
to be regarded as the child's best friend. When baby is sick, the doctor is needed, his daily
visits must not be resisted, his medicines must not be feared--these and such other matters
should be made a part of every child's early education.

Under no circumstances or conditions should we directly falsify to a child. Nothing is accomplished
by telling a child it will not hurt when you know that it will hurt, or that the medicine tastes
good when you know it is bad-tasting. Every physician can recall unnecessary disturbances in
the office because a mother has allowed a child to acquire a wrong mental attitude toward the
family physician.

One mother told her little girl in my office when I wished to make an examination for adenoids
which necessitated my putting my finger back of the child's uvula, "Now Mary, the doctor won't
hurt you at all, it will feel nice." I turned to the little girl and said: "Mary, it will not
feel nice, it really won't hurt you, but it will feel uncomfortable." It was a grave mistake
to tell her that it would feel nice. The child resisted, and, while the examination was successfully
made, the greatest of tact had to be used in securing the friendship of the child after the
examination.

It is far better when the throat is to be examined to wrap the child in a shawl or a sheet
with his arms placed at his side, and for a member of the family to take him in her lap and
hold him securely while the physician quickly makes the observation. And while we appreciate
that sickness is not the time to introduce new methods of training, in instances where children
have been spoiled, it is far better quietly and firmly to go about the task in a manner that
you know can be carried through to a successful finish.

TREATMENT OF SICK CHILDREN

A sick child should be encouraged to lie in his bed much of the time, and the bed should be
kept clean and cool. He should never be set up suddenly or laid back quickly. In the case of
a broken leg, all rapid movements should be avoided. A simple story or a soothing lullaby,
or the giving of a toy, will often divert attention when some painful movement must be made
or some disagreeable task performed.

Both cleanliness of the body and cleanliness of the mouth are exceedingly necessary in sickness.
In all instances of disease or indisposition, the mouth must receive daily care, for stomatitis
or gangrene of the mouth often follows neglect. A listerine wash in proportion of one to four,
or a magnesia wash, or the addition of a few drops of essence of cinnamon to the mouth wash
will do much to prevent such conditions, as well as to relieve them.

Applications of medicine to the throat may be made without resistance if the tactful nurse
watches her time. She should slowly introduce the tongue depressor which may be a flat stick
or a spoon, when the application of medicine with a camel's-hair brush is quickly made to the
rolled-out throat as the child gags, and if the nurse then quickly diverts his attention to
some beautiful story or a picture or a new toy, the treatment is soon forgotten. Under no circumstances
argue with or scold a sick child. Get everything ready, if possible behind his back or in another
room, and then with plenty of help make the application or the observation without words, always
with gentleness and firmness.

NURSING RECORDS

Whether the nurse be the mother, caretaker, practical or professional nurse, a record should
always be kept of the condition of the patient. The temperature should be reported at different
periods designated by the physician. The pulse should be recorded, the amount of urine passed
and the time it was passed, the number of bowel movements, all feedings and the general well
being of the child--whether it is restless or comfortable, sleeping or awake, together with
the water that he drinks.

The record may be kept, if necessary, on a piece of common letter paper, and should read something
like this:

     March 26, 1916

     7 A. M. Temperature 102; pulse 132; respiration 40; morning
     toilet; took 4 ounces of milk; 2 ounces of barley water; 1 ounce
     of lime water.

     9 A. M. Enema given; good bowel movement; mustard paste applied
     to chest, front and back, and oil-silk jacket applied; drank
     boiled water, 4 ounces.

     11 A. M. Took the juice of one orange; temperature 103; pulse
     135.

     12 Noon. Very listless and nervous; temperature 104. Has coughed
     a great deal. Gave mustard paste to chest, front and back, and
     wet-sheet pack.

     1:30 P. M. Temperature 101.8; 4 ounces of water to drink; looks
     better.

A record like this is a great help to the physician, and such a record may be kept by anyone
who can read and write. There are printed record blanks which may be procured from any medical
supply house and most drug stores.

BAD-TASTING MEDICINES

Castor oil has neither a pleasant smell nor taste, and nothing is accomplished by telling the
child that it does smell good or taste good. If the patient is old enough to drink from a cup,
put in a layer of orange juice and then the castor oil and then another layer of orange juice,
and in this way it often can be easily taken. Someone has suggested that a piece of ice held
in the mouth just before the medicine is taken will often make a bad dose go down without so
much forcing. A taste of currant jelly, or a bit of sweet chocolate, or the chewing of a stick
of cinnamon is a great adjunct to the administration of bad-tasting medicines. All oily medicines
must be kept in a cool place and should always be given in spoons or from medicine glasses
that have first been dipped in very cold water. Very often the addition of sugar to bad-tasting
medicines will in no wise interfere with their action, while it often facilitates the administration
of the disagreeable dose. The majority of bad-tasting medicines are now put up in the form
of chocolate-flavored candy tablets.

TEMPERATURES AND PULSE

The normal temperature of a baby is 98.5 to 99 F. in the rectum. After shaking the mercury
of the thermometer down below the 97 mark it is well lubricated with vaseline and then carefully,
gently, pushed into the rectum for about an inch and a half or two inches, and left there for
three minutes before removing.

Mothers should exercise self-control in taking the temperature, for nothing is gained by allowing
a panicky fear to seize you should the mercury register higher than you anticipated. Notify
your physician when the temperature registers above 100 F.

The respirations of a child are fairly regular and rhythmic and occur about forty times per
minute during the first month of life and about thirty times per minute during the remainder
of the year. From one to two years, twenty-six to twenty-eight is the average. Breathing is
somewhat irregular when the child is awake and may be a bit slower when asleep. Before the
baby is born the fetal pulse is about 150. At birth it ranges from 130 to 140. During the first
month the pulse is found to be from 120 to 140. By the sixth month it gets down to 120 or 130,
and from that on to a year the normal pulse beat of the baby is about 120. The pulse is influenced
very much by exercise and is often increased by crying or nursing or any other excitement.

FEVER

Children get fever very easily--the digestive disturbance of overeating, constipation, a slight
bilious attack--all produce fever which disappears quite as suddenly as it came. The first
thing to do under such circumstances is to withhold food, give plenty of water to drink, produce
a brisk movement of the bowel by giving a dose of castor oil, give a cleansing enema, and treat
the fever as follows:

After removing all of the clothes from the child, place him in a warm blanket and then prepare
a sponge bath which may be equal parts of alcohol and water; expose one portion of the body
at a time and apply the water and alcohol first to one arm and then to the other arm, the chest,
one leg, the other leg, the back and then the buttocks. Do not dry the part but allow evaporation
to take place, and this, accompanied by the cooling of the blood which is brought to the skin
by the friction, readily reduces the fever. Another procedure which may be employed if the
fever registers high is the wet-sheet pack which is administered as follows:

Three thicknesses of wool blankets are placed on the bed and a sheet as long as the baby and
just enough to wrap around him once, is wrung out of cool water and spread over these blankets.
With a hot-water bottle to the feet, the child is then laid down in the wet sheet which is
now brought in contact with every portion of his body, then the blankets are quickly brought
around, and he is allowed to warm up the sheet--which lowers his temperature.

Another valuable procedure is the cooling enema. Water the same temperature as that of the
body, is allowed to enter the bowel and is then quickly cooled down to 90 or 85 F.; in this
manner much heat is taken out of the body and the fever quickly reduced. (For further treatment
of fevers see Appendix.)

CHAPTER XXVI

BABY'S SICK ROOM

Visitors should never be allowed in the sick room during the height of a disease, and during
convalescence not more than one visitor should be allowed at one time, and the visit then should
be only two or three minutes in length. The order and the quietness and the system of the sick
room should be perfect. Visitors and loitering members of the family do no good and they may
do much harm to the recuperating nervous system of the child.

LOCATION OF THE SICK ROOM

In these days of high rents, we realize that the greater per cent of our readers are living
in apartments and homes just big enough conveniently to care for the family during health,
and while it would be pleasant and convenient to have a spare room or an attic chamber that
could be used in case of illness, it is the exception rather than the rule that the families
to whom sickness comes have these extra apartments. When a contagious or an infectious disease
comes to the family, it is of great importance that the sick child be isolated, preferably
on another floor, from that used by the immediate family.

Those living in homes, more than likely can fix up a room on the attic floor for the isolation,
and those living in apartments may put the sick child in one end of the apartment, while they
inhabit the other end. One family under my observation not long ago had a child stricken with
the measles. In the same apartment there lived a puny baby not quite two years old. Coming
as it did in February, the mother of the child was apprehensive, fearing that measles would
leave a severe bronchitis which might mean the death of the already too-delicate baby. She
was instructed to move the baby's bed to the sun parlor in the front of the flat, while the
boy with the measles was put in the parents' room in the rear end of the flat. A sheet was
suspended in the middle of the hall leading from the living-room to the bedrooms. Door knobs
were disinfected daily, a caretaker was put in charge of the measles patient, the mother very
frequently was compelled to go back and administer a treatment, but each time she donned a
large apron and completely covered her hair with a towel, she administered the treatment, took
off her wrappings, thoroughly washed her face and hands--disinfected them--and returned to
her baby in the front part of the house.

At night this mother slept on the floor on springs and mattress in the living-room, and to
that home the measles came and departed, and the baby did not get them at all, so perfect was
the isolation, so vigilant the disinfection, and so scrupulous the care to prevent contamination.
So you see from this one instance that it is altogether possible to make isolation complete
even on the same floor. But, mind you, the dishes that the lad ate from were all kept in his
room. Food was brought to the sheet and there the caretaker held her dishes while the cook
poured or lifted the food from her clean dishes to the dishes the caretaker brought from the
sick room.

Whether the sick room is in the attic or whether it be the rear end of an apartment, if the
principles of contagion and disinfection are understood I believe it is perfectly possible
to isolate even scarlet fever without danger to the other members of the family.

NECESSARY FURNISHINGS

For slight indispositions and trifling disorders, it is not necessary to strip the room of
its adornment, but it is well to clear off the dresser tops, protect them well with many thicknesses
of newspapers covered over by a folded sheet so that alcohol, witch-hazel and other necessaries
will not injure the mahogany or oak-top dresser. Whenever the children are sick, rob the room
of anything that is going to be in your way. In instances of infectious or contagious diseases,
take down all silk or wool hangings, replace them by washable curtains or inexpensive ones
that can be burned if necessary, and remove valuable paintings and other bric-a-brac that later
fumigation will harm or that may gather the dust during the days of illness.

Just as it is necessary for the man who mines the coal to wear suitable garments, and for the
woman who does the scrubbing to dress accordingly, and for the nurse who cares for the case
to wear washable clothes--so it is necessary to dress the sick room in garments that are suitable,
convenient, and capable of being thoroughly disinfected, fumigated, or even burned if the occasion
demands. Hence, expensive rugs should be replaced by rag carpets or no rug at all, while unnecessary
articles and garments should be removed from closets, etc.

Remembering that the little fellow is to remain in this room for possibly two weeks or maybe
six weeks, let us put up some bright-colored pictures that he will enjoy, bring in some books
and magazines by which he may be entertained, secure a few simple toys that will not tax the
brain, but serve as a help to pass away the long hours. There are many paper games that may
be had, such as transfer pictures, picture puzzles, kindergarten papers, drawing pictures,
as well as toys that may be put together to fashion new articles. A whole lot of fun can be
gotten out of a bunch of burrs that can be stuck together to make men, animals, houses, etc.
Scissors and pictures are entertaining as well as paper dolls with their wardrobes. Rubber
balloons, or a target gun for the boy of six will be a great source of delight to him; as will
a doll with a trunk full of clothes for the little girl during her convalescent days. A tactful
nurse and a resourceful mother will think of all the rest that we have not mentioned--which
will amuse, entertain and keep happy our convalescent children, help them to forget that they
are "shut ins."

THE NURSERY REFRIGERATOR

It is wise in instances of the more severe childhood troubles, such as infectious and contagious
diseases, to keep as many things in the sick room as possible, and so we remind our reader
of the home-made ice box, described elsewhere in this book, in which may be kept the fruit
juices and the fruits, as well as the milk and the buttermilk. Many medicines, particularly
the oily medicines, should be kept in this home-made ice box and five cents worth of ice a
day will not only make things taste better, especially during the warm months, but will protect
the other members of the family, for the family ice box is a big central station which must
be protected against infections and carriers of disease.

In connection with the ice box, we are reminded that it would be a great convenience to have
a simple contrivance for heating bouillon, milk, or making a piece of toast, which can be readily
done with an electric heater, an alcohol stove, or a small apparatus fitting over the gas jet.

SICK ROOM DISINFECTANTS

The most important thing which we are going to mention in this division of the chapter is the
disinfection of the door knobs. According to the directions on the poison bottle, place an
antiseptic tablet into a small amount of water which will make a solution of 1 to 1000 of bichlorid
of mercury, and several times a day disinfect the door knobs, particularly in the sick end
of the house--thoroughly washing and adequately rubbing with a towel moistened in this solution.

All stools and urine from the sick one will receive attention as directed by the physician.
The stools from a typhoid patient should stand for one-half hour in a chamber covered with
a layer of lime.

It is not at all necessary to have vessels containing disinfectant substances standing about
the room and in the closet. In a room adjoining should be kept all of the dishes used by the
sick patient, his tray, half a dozen napkins, knife, fork, spoon, serving dishes, drinking
glass, pitcher, etc. All bedding and all linen used by the sick member should be allowed to
stand in a solution of disinfectant for several hours when they may be wrung out of the solution,
dropped into a bucket and carried to the laundry without any danger to other members of the family.

The nurse is not allowed to leave this room in the garments that are worn while caring for
the sick. She should have her meals in an adjoining room which is also under strict isolation.

THE MEDICINE CHEST

The sick room medicine chest should be so placed on the wall that it is outside the reach of
the smaller members of the family, for in it should be placed poisons for external use that
are capable of producing death if taken internally. Bottles that hold these poisons--such as
bichlorid of mercury, lysol, carbolic acid, laudanum, paregoric, belladonna, etc.--should be
so different from the other bottles in the medicine chest that if one should reach for them
with his eyes shut or in the dark he would at once recognize that he had hold of a poison bottle.
This is absolutely necessary. It usually means a bit of extra expense, but when we realize
what tragedies may be avoided by such slight expense, it must not be considered.

Bottles may be procured that have been molded with points of glass projecting from the outside
which make them rough to the touch, or they may be covered with a wire mesh or with a wicker
covering which may easily be told from the other bottles in the case.

One woman lost her life because the nurse placed two ounces of carbolic acid in the enema instead
of two ounces of saline solution. Saline solution is nothing but salt and water, while carbolic
acid cost the woman her life, simply because the carbolic acid was not placed in a specialized
poison bottle and the attendant could not read the label in the dark.

Under no circumstances keep from one year to another the remnants of unused medicine of a former
sickness, for medicines do not keep well and often lose their strength if kept longer than
the physician intended.

In this medicine chest should be found the following articles:

  A glass graduate marked with fluid drachms (1 teaspoon),
    and fluid ounces  (8 teaspoons).
  A medicine dropper.
  Absorbent cotton.
  Boric acid.
  Camphorated oil.
  Castor oil.
  Aromatic spirits of ammonia.
  Alcohol.
  Olive oil.
  Epsom salts.
  Soda-mint tablets.
  Vaseline.
  Zinc ointment, together with other medicines the physician
    orders.
  Ice bag, hot-water bottle and oiled silk.

Besides these articles, in the nursery--in readiness for emergencies and accidents--should
be found the following:

  Gauze bandages of various sizes.
  Sterile gauze.
  Boric acid crystals and powder.
  Mustard.
  A pocket case of instruments containing scissors, knife, dressing
  forceps, etc.
  Syrup of ipecac.
  Glycerin.
  Tincture of iodine.
  Package of ordinary baking soda.
  Peroxid of hydrogen.
  Absorbent cotton.
  Needle and thread.
  Lime water.

PATENT MEDICINES

Aside from the giving of castor oil and the application of vaseline to the nose, or of applying
boracic acid to the eyes, no medicine should be administered to the baby without competent
medical advice. There are numerous widely advertised nostrums frequently sold as soothing syrups
to be used during the teething or during attacks of diarrhea, or cough spasms, croup, or worms,
that contain dangerous drugs and should not be given to children. Many well-meaning but ignorant
mothers are slowly but surely laying the foundations for serious nervous disorders and are
often making veritable dope fiends out of their children. Patent medicines are dangerous things
in the hands of the people; if we are going to give medicines to our little babies let us at
least know what we are giving. Let some conscientious, scientific physician examine the baby
and prescribe for its needs.

If urged to use a patent medicine, examine the label carefully, for the Federal Food and Drug
Act requires the manufacturer of patent medicines to print plainly on the label of the bottle
the name and amount of certain dangerous drugs which it may contain.

The drugs mentioned in this drug act and which are often used in patent medicine nostrums are,
chloral hydrate, cocaine, heroin, chloroform, alpha or beta eucaine, opium, morphin, alcohol,
cannabis indica, or any derivative or preparation of any such substance contained therein.

There are many other drugs sold on the market containing syrups or flavoring materials which
may do harm--which may upset the baby's digestion.

Mothers avoid patent medicines. Consult your physician. Never give a baby any sort of medicine
to induce sleep. Unless babies are sick or spoiled or hungry, they will go to sleep of themselves,
and even in the days of a high fever a wet-sheet pack seldom ever fails to put the baby to
sleep and can do no harm if properly given.

This may be as good a place as any to mention the dosage of castor oil which is as follows:

  Up to three months, 1/2 teaspoon.
  From three to six months, 1 teaspoon.
  From six to nine months, 1½ teaspoons.
  From nine to twelve months, 1 dessert spoon (2 teaspoons).
  From twelve months on, 1 to 2 tablespoons.

AFTER THE SICKNESS IS OVER

The physician will direct when the disinfectant bath is to be given to the patient previous
to his liberation from isolation. The different diseases demand different treatment, but, on
the whole, it is about as follows:

The day before the boy is to be allowed to go out among the family once more he receives a
soap wash, clean sheet and bedding on the bed, and puts on clean garments. The following morning,
his head thoroughly shampooed, his nails manicured, a second soap wash is given followed by
a weak bichlorid bath (1 to 10,000 solution) which is followed by an alcohol rub. He is then
allowed to go out of the sick room which is now to be thoroughly disinfected and fumigated.

After the illness is over, the sick room and the adjoining closets and ante rooms must be thoroughly
disinfected or fumigated. If you are located in a city, the health authorities will do this
after an infectious or contagious disease. Away from such conveniences, use the following method:

Place two ounces of crystals of permanganate of potash in a pan and have a pint bottle of formalin
near by. Everything in the room is now exposed, dresser drawers are opened, all bedding, all
garments--in fact everything that is in the room--is put in such a position as to be readily
exposed to the fumes which are to follow. A line should be stretched across the room over which
are thrown the bedding, garments, etc. The cracks of the windows and doors, except the one
door of exit, are now sealed up with paper which has been dipped in green soap, and having
the paper strips and pan of green soap ready just outside the exit door, the formalin is now
poured over the permanganate crystals. Fumes will immediately arise and permeate every corner,
crack and crevice of the sick room. Now quickly make your exit, close the door and seal up
key hole and cracks and space under the door with paper dipped in green soap. Leave the room
for six hours. After this with a well-moistened cloth to the nose, rush in and throw the windows
open, hurry out and allow the room to air from twelve to twenty-four hours, after which wash
woodwork and painted walls or take paper off and repaper walls; recalcimine ceilings and closets;
scrub closet shelves and dresser drawers, bedsteads, and other furniture thoroughly. If the
mattress is old throw it away, but if not, sun it for several days following the fumigation.

CHAPTER XXVII

DIGESTIVE DISORDERS

In this chapter we will consider the diseases which commonly occur during infancy and early
childhood relative to digestion and the alimentary tract. Irregularity of feeding, feeding
between meals, feeding too much at any given time, as well as feeding the wrong kind of food
may cause stomach disturbances and intestinal troubles.

VOMITING

In a previous chapter, "The Feeding Problem," a common stomach disturbance, vomiting, was gone
into quite thoroughly, and in passing to other disorders, we wish to remind the mother that
vomiting should always be taken seriously. The interval between meals should usually be lengthened,
the time spent in feeding shortened, and it is often necessary to withhold all milk and food
of any kind for twelve or eighteen hours, giving only boiled, unsweetened water. Vomiting frequently
ushers in some acute disease, and in remote cases, when it is very persistent, it may indicate
inflammation of the brain. Complete rest is essential, trotting on the knee, suddenly changing
the baby's position, or other quick movements must all be avoided. A physician should see the
sick one and determine the cause of the trouble.

COLIC

Cases of ordinary colic are usually relieved by heat to the abdomen and feet, drinking hot
water in which there has been dissolved a pinch of ordinary baking soda, or a portion of a
soda mint tablet, or by the use of the photophore, as previously described. The treatment of
such ordinary colic need not be given further consideration here because it has been described
at length in a former chapter; but we do call the attention of the mother to a more serious
form of recurring colic which so often accompanies chronic intestinal indigestion, marasmus,
and malnutrition.

In most instances the food is radically at fault and should be reduced to a mixture which can
more readily be digested and assimilated by the child. Often whey mixtures, peptonized foods,
or buttermilk may be indicated. The weight of the baby, the age of the baby, and the color
of the stools, must all be taken into account in the preparation of this easily digested food.
Weak mixtures should be given at first and then gradually and carefully the quality may be
strengthened until the normal formula is again used for the baby.

Injections into the bowel of water, to which has been added one level teaspoon of soda to the
pint, will often give relief in this form of colic.

CHRONIC INDIGESTION

While this condition may occur at any time during babyhood days, it often makes its appearance
during the last half of the first year and up to the fifth year. It is accompanied by mucus
in the stools, chronic flatulence, constipation or diarrhea, or the alternating of the two,
restlessness at night, distention of the abdomen ("pot bellied") accompanied by pain, a coated
tongue with a fetid breath, and loss of appetite. It is a pitiable picture--the weight is usually
reduced and the child gives the appearance of being decidedly undernourished. This condition
is usually occasioned by errors in diet, whether it be over-feeding or feeding of the wrong
element of food, and, since the diet is usually responsible for the condition, in the line
of treatment diet is a prime factor.

All fats must be taken from the food, sugars should be avoided, and the amount of starchy foods,
such as flour, potatoes and bread, should be greatly reduced. Buttermilk, skimmed milk, eggs,
green vegetables, and fruit juices should be given. In the older child, if grains are used,
they should be well toasted or baked.

JAUNDICE

It is altogether common and physiological for the newborn baby to pass through a few days of
yellow skin which usually clears up in the second or third week, but it should not recur. Occasionally
this yellow tint deepens, the whites of the eyes are yellow, the urine passed leaves a yellow
stain on the diaper, while passages from the bowels are white or clay colored. If the child
shows symptoms of ill health other than the yellow tint, it should receive medical attention.
Older children troubled with jaundice should receive the following treatment: The photophore
as described elsewhere should be applied to the liver and abdomen (the liver is on the right
side), and this should be followed by the application of what is known as a heating compress,
consisting of three layers--a cloth wrung from cold water, a mackintosh, and then two thicknesses
of blanket flannel--which are all applied when the skin has been made red by the application
of heat. (If the photophore is unavailable, a hot-water bottle may be applied.) The flannel
is pinned snugly on the outside as the wet cloth goes next to the skin with the mackintosh
between. This should remain on the abdomen for three or four hours, after which the hot application
is again made to the liver and abdomen. The administration of broken doses of calomel is sometimes
indicated in obstinate cases in connection with these applications of heat to the liver. Hot
milk or mineral water may be taken with dry toast. In a day or two the color should clear up,
the stools should be normal again, and the treatment may be discontinued.

WORMS

Irritation about the rectum which cannot be otherwise explained is usually suggestive of pinworms.
These seatworms or pinworms are very much like little pieces of cotton thread--one-fourth of
an inch in length. They grow and thrive in the lower part of the large bowel. Simple and effective
treatment is as follows:

It is well to bathe the parts about the rectum after each bowel movement and often two or three
times a day with a weak antiseptic solution. Itching may be controlled by the application of
a disinfectant ointment, or the local applications of ice may serve the same purpose. After
a thorough cleansing of the colon by an injection of lukewarm water containing a teaspoon of
borax to the pint in order to remove the mucus, Doctor Holt suggests that after the discharge
of this borated enema, infusions of quassia are very helpful (See Appendix).

Children suffering from roundworms experience a loss of appetite, varying temperature from
above normal to subnormal, with colicky pains in the abdomen on coming to the table and beginning
to eat. They are pale and listless, or nervous and irritable.

Roundworms very much resemble earthworms in shape and color. While their home is in the small
intestines they often travel to other parts of the body. They have sometimes crawled into the
stomach and have been vomited. The only definite symptom of worms is to find the eggs or the
worms themselves in the stool. No worm medicine should ever be given by the mouth without being
prescribed by a physician. Cases are on record where well-meaning mothers have killed their
children by giving an over dose of worm medicine.

Tapeworms sometimes trouble children; their segments are found in the stool, and look like
small pieces of tape line. The segments are flat and thin, one-fourth inch to one-half inch
in width and three-fourths to one inch in length. They are joined together and often their
number is so great the worm is many feet in length. The segments grow smaller and smaller as
they approach the neck, the head of the worm being a mere point. As the worm is passing from
the child it should never be pulled, as the head is easily broken off, and, on remaining in
the bowel, it will grow to a full-sized worm.

Worms come from the eating of half-cooked meats; they enter the stomach as eggs or tiny worms,
and pass out into the small intestines, where they begin to grow. They are a common parasite
in the human family and should be suspected in all instances where digestive symptoms are masked
or do not yield to treatment.

HOOKWORM DISEASE

This disease, once seen only in the southern part of the United States, is leaving its former
domains as the migrating population is distributing it more or less widely everywhere. Sandy
soil and country districts are infected by a tiny worm which thrives in polluted soil and enters
the body through the skin of the feet. It also gets into the body through the drinking water
or from the eating of uncooked vegetables, such as are used in salads.

The disease is manifested by "sallow skin, paleness, headache, swollen abdomen and sores on
the legs." Little swollen places where the worm enters the skin may be seen on the flesh. The
condition yields readily to treatment. If a child is discovered scratching his feet (especially
in the southern part of this country), he should be taken at once to a physician.

DISORDERED STOMACH

At the first symptom of a disordered stomach take all food from the baby and give him rice
water prepared by throwing a cupful of well-washed rice into a kettle of boiling water and
allowing it to continue to boil for a couple of hours. The water which is strained off is rice
water, ready for use after it is cooled. This may be given to the child at the meal hour in
the place of his regular food. It should be kept in a glass-covered jar in the ice box. A dose
of castor oil, according to the age, should be administered before the feed. The bowels should
be washed out and boiled water given freely between the meals of rice water. For a day or two
(twenty-four to forty-eight hours), the child should be fed only this rice water, or until
the temperature returns to normal and he appears very hungry, at which time milk, which has
been boiled for five minutes, may be added to the rice water, first in one-half ounce quantities
and gradually increased. Each day a little more milk is added until baby is taking his regular
food again.

Many a death and many acute attacks of summer complaint are avoided by the quick use of castor
oil, and by withholding food and stopping the use of milk as soon as the child becomes ill.

STOMATITIS OR THRUSH

Thrush is evidenced by fretfulness or crying on attempting to nurse. On examination of the
mouth it is found to be hot and very tender and covered with little white specks which, if
looked at under the microscope, appear to be a fungus growth. If scratched off, the mucous
membrane bleeds easily. Thrush often occurs during a fever or in connection with other diseases,
and is often due to neglect and lack of cleanliness about the bottles, nipples, etc. Taken
in time it is quickly cured. An immediate dose of castor oil or milk of magnesia is indicated,
and the use of a mouth wash which will be prescribed by the physician. If neglected, it may
become ulcerous or gangrenous, which is a very serious condition. Everything pertaining to
the feeding, as well as the child's toys, hands, etc., must be kept scrupulously clean.

CONSTIPATION

In the chapter, "The Feeding Problem," constipation in bottle-fed babies was discussed. The
bowels should move at least once in twenty-four hours. The passages are frequently very hard
and leave the body only after a very great effort of straining. This constipation, often continuing
until late childhood, should be corrected in the following manner:

In early infancy--as early as the fourth month--prune juice may be given as directed elsewhere,
while in later months prune pulp or fig pulp, which has been carefully rubbed through a fine-mesh
colander, may be given at meal time. By the time the baby is eleven or twelve months old, strained
apple sauce may be given.

We deplore the use of the water enema as a regular daily procedure; in its place we suggest
the use of the enema of oil or the introduction into the rectum of a gluten suppository or
in obstinate cases a glycerine suppository. Abdominal massage should be daily administered.
With a well-oiled hand, begin on the right abdomen and proceed upward to the lower border of
the right ribs and across to the left side and down. This should be repeated many times at
a regular hour each day. The mother should select an hour for the bowels to move, preferably
after the forenoon feeding, and if the child is too small to sit upon the toilet chair, a gluten
suppository may be placed into the rectum before the forenoon feed and some time during the
middle of the day the bowel movement will be found in the napkin.

For the older child, before a certain meal each day, a well-vaselined piece of cotton may be
inserted in the rectum; this often produces a bowel movement immediately after the meal. Laxative
foods, such as bran, stewed figs, stewed prunes, or a raw apple, should be used faithfully--as
repeated medication never corrects the difficulty, but usually prolongs it.

To immediately flush out the bowel, a soapsuds enema or a plain water enema may be allowed
to flow into the lower colon, or a glycerine suppository inserted into the rectum will quickly
bring a bowel movement. These methods are only of temporary value; a regular habit should be
formed, if possible, to bring about a natural, normal bowel movement. When necessary to resort
to drugs--such remedies as cascara sagrada, milk of magnesia, or syrup of rhubarb, are satisfactory,
as well as our old stand-by--castor oil. Regular habits must be insisted upon, and if the mother
pays attention to regularity at stool in early childhood very little trouble will be met later
on in adolescence and adult life.

Chronic constipation often produces abnormal conditions about the rectum such as fissures,
hemorrhoids, or prolapse, which may be of serious import.

DIARRHEA

Diarrhea is a symptom of an acute illness, or it may be associated with a chronic condition
such as chronic intestinal indigestion, tuberculosis of the bowel, or may occur alternately
with constipation in colitis. It is the most dangerous of all symptoms that babies develop,
and in spite of all the instruction given to mothers at the present time, in spite of all the
welfare stations in large cities, and in spite of all the efforts put forth by the commissioner
of health, with his corps of visiting nurses--even yet, more babies die of diarrhea each summer
than from any other single cause.

There are usually just two reasons for diarrhea--uncleanliness and bad milk. During the hot
summer days flies multiply greatly and all manner of bacteria and germs grow in warm, moist,
shadowy places, so that usually before the milk leaves the dairy farm it is seriously contaminated
with disease-producing germs. If the milk is not kept at a temperature of 35 or 40 F. (which
is just above the freezing point), these bacteria, particularly the manure germ, grow at such
a rate that by the time the milk gets to the infant it is teeming with bacteria, and diarrhea
is the sure result.

Another form of diarrhea is cholera infantum, where the stools soon become watery and colorless.
The vomiting is almost incessant and there is high fever. Fortunately it is a rare disease,
but when once seen it is never forgotten. One beautiful baby weighing nearly thirty pounds
was reduced to sixteen within forty-eight hours, and when death came he could hardly be recognized
because of the wasting from this most dreaded of infant diseases.

Another form of diarrhea is seen in an acute inflammatory condition of the intestine itself.
The stools contain more or less mucus and blood. The bowel movements, which are very frequent,
are accompanied by a great deal of pain and straining. This form is often seen in the more
severe types of summer dysentery. We wish to impress upon the reader's mind that these diarrheas
may all be avoided if the baby's food is clean and free from germs, if the apple or pear is
not only washed, but thoroughly scrubbed before paring during the summer months. If all the
bottles, nipples, water, toys, etc., are adequately clean, no summer diarrhea, no dysentery,
no other infection due to dirt, will attack the baby. Of paramount importance is the pasteurization
of milk during the summer months, as mentioned elsewhere.

TREATMENT OF DIARRHEA

Simple diarrhea in the older child of two or three years is treated as follows: Take away all
solid foods. Give a big dose of castor oil, thoroughly wash out the bowel by warm water containing
a level teaspoon of salt and a level teaspoon of baking soda to the pint, and put the child
to bed in a quiet room. Boil all milk for ten minutes and thicken it with flour that has been
browned in the oven; feed this to the child at five-hour intervals. After each bowel movement,
no matter how often they come, the colon should be washed out with the salt and soda enema
as before mentioned.

Bear in mind that the child is losing liquids, and so, after the bowels have moved, boiled
water should be given by mouth, or a cupful of water can often be retained if it is introduced
into the rectum slowly under very low pressure. Twenty-four or forty hours should clear up
a case of simple diarrhea, and on returning to food it should be dry toast and boiled milk.
For the younger baby, withhold all milk and give barley water or rice water for the first twenty-four
hours, returning to milk very gradually and slowly.

For the more severe types, such as the dysentery containing mucus and blood, everything that
has been done for the simple diarrhea should be done; the baby should be kept very quiet, while
castor oil should be promptly administered. Food is withheld and the bowels are carefully irrigated
after each movement with the salt and soda solutions. After the bowels have moved from the
castor oil, then bismuth subnitrate, which has been dissolved in two ounces of water, should
be given--one or two teaspoons every three hours. This will naturally turn the bowel movements
dark.

Under no circumstances should any other medicines be given without the physician's knowledge,
as it is at such times as this that many "would-be friends" advise laudanum, paregoric, and
other opiates. The skin must be kept warm, and fluids must replace those that have been carried
off in the many stools. Water may be given by an enema, by water drinking, and in such rare
cases as cholera infantum, when water cannot be retained on the stomach, it often becomes necessary
to inject it under the skin (hypodermoclysis) so that it may go at once to the wasted tissues
and perhaps save the baby's life.

Give the baby ten days or two weeks to return to normal condition, and under no circumstances
hurry the feeding of milk, as a second attack may occur much more readily than the first; may
more profoundly overcome the baby and result in death.

RUPTURE

A protrusion of a loop or portion of intestine through a weakened abdominal muscle--which grows
larger when baby cries and smaller when he is lying down in a relaxed condition--is known as
rupture or hernia, and is of common occurrence in infancy. It is often seen at the navel and
sometimes in the groin as early as the second week.

Hernia is always dangerous and should never be neglected. The physician will protect the navel
by a special support with adhesive plaster which is carefully renewed twice a week, and if
worn for several months usually entirely corrects the condition. A comfortable truss made from
skeins of white yarn will amply protect a groin hernia. The condition should always be taken
seriously and receive immediate treatment.

PROLAPSE OF THE BOWEL

Occasionally, as the result of severe straining in constipation, the rectum protrudes sometimes
one-half inch, and in rare instances two or three inches. The placing of a young child upon
a toilet chair and insisting upon severe straining sometimes results in such a protrusion of
the rectum. This may be avoided by the application of vaseline to the rectum or by the use
of the gluten or glycerine suppositories which cause the hardened masses to make their way
out easily. Someone has suggested that if the buttocks are supported by a board placed over
the toilet seat with a two-inch opening so that severe straining of the rectal muscles is impossible,
the prolapse of the rectum will not recur.

The moment the mother observes the slightest protrusion of the rectum she should quickly put
it back and have the child lie down and move the bowel in the diaper. Very severe cases require
a physician's attention, but if prompt and quick measures are taken on the first appearance
it may be quickly corrected and serious consequences be avoided.

In this connection we might mention a condition which sometimes babies are born with--the absence
of the rectal opening. If the baby's bowels do not move for the first two days, surgical interference
is more than likely necessary. Often the external opening alone is missing. Sometimes there
is a complete closure or atresia of the lower part of the colon.

BLEEDING FROM THE NAVEL

There should be no hemorrhage from the umbilical stump after it has been properly tied, but
occasionally a bit of blood is found upon the dressing and a second tying of the cord stump
is necessary. The cord drops off in eight or ten days, and the umbilicus that is left may be
moist or it may bleed slightly; if such is the case, great care should be exercised in bathing
this ulcer that has been left behind. It simply should be touched with alcohol, a bit of boric
acid powder applied, and a small piece of sterile gauze be placed over it. In the course of
two or three days it will entirely heal. Care should always be exercised in washing the umbilicus.
Extensive hemorrhage from this portion of the body is rare, but it does happen occasionally
and is a severe condition which demands surgical attention.

If the umbilicus remains moist and foul smelling, general blood poisoning of the infant may
easily follow. Thorough dusting with boric acid powder, with possibly a little oxide of zinc,
will usually effect a cure promptly, but should the condition continue, which it does only
in rare instances, the doctor may have to cauterize it.

CHAPTER XXVIII

CONTAGIOUS DISEASES

Never under any circumstances knowingly expose a child to any of the so-called "childhood diseases."
The old method of "have the child get them as quickly as possible and get over them," has laid
the foundation for many chronic disorders later in life. For instance, eye troubles and running
ears are often the sequelae of measles; chronic coughs, tuberculosis and bronchitis frequently
follow in the wake of whooping cough; heart disorders follow diphtheria, while kidney disease
often follows in the course of scarlet fever.

CATCHING DISEASE

Under all circumstances keep the children away from these dangerous childhood diseases. When
a contagious disease breaks out in a school and the little fellow has, along with the other
pupils, been exposed to it, begin at once systematically to keep the nose and throat very clean
with such well-known sprays as the champhor-menthol-albolene spray, which should be used in
the nose morning, noon, and night. Throat gargles, such as listerine, or equal parts of alcohol
and water, help to keep the throat in condition to resist the microbic invasion.

During this anxious time of patient waiting the bowels should move every day and the food should
be cut down at least a third. In other words, moderate eating and a clean bowel tract go a
long way toward keeping a child well and preparing him for an attack of disease. The skin at
this time should be kept well bathed and free from the accumulated skin secretions which clog
up the sweat glands and otherwise lower the vitality.

Stuffy, close rooms, where the ventilation is poor, not only harbor disease germs, but also
lower the vitality of the child. Never take your child into a household where there is any
form of sickness, for it may turn out to be a contagious disease--no matter how it began, it
must be remembered that many contagious diseases, in their earlier stages, much resemble a
simple cold.

Measles come on rather gradually, and one might suspect that the child was simply suffering
from a severe cold in the head.

Scarlet fever usually begins with a sore throat, while chickenpox has very few initial symptoms;
usually the first thing noted is the rash itself. Diphtheria begins with a sore throat, while
whooping cough begins very insidiously.

The most important thing is to keep children away from people who are sick, and if a contagious
or infectious disease is prevalent in the neighborhood discourage the mingling of the children
in hot, illy ventilated rooms. Put a stop to "parties" and all similar gatherings. Let the
little folks have good books, plenty of toys, in a well-ventilated room, and the more they
keep to themselves at this particular time the better they are off.

THE SPREAD OF CONTAGION

It is possible to "stamp out" any known disease if only proper cooperation takes place and
certain sanitary regulations are maintained. It is within the memory of most of our readers
when yellow fever was put to flight and the cause of malaria discovered. We learned to screen
our camps and no longer did our soldiers contract the fever; while the simple covering of stagnant
pools with oil, together with proper screenage, stopped the ravages of malaria.

Likewise, many of the woeful tragedies of infant summer diarrhea and dysenteries have been
tracked to the so-called "innocent house fly." We have all learned--only recently--that if
we move the manure pile once in seven days the hatching of the maggots may be prevented, and
so millions, yes trillions, of these carriers of disease may never be born.

If there is one sweet morsel above another for this fly pest it is tubercular sputum or feces,
and from these feasts they go directly to walk over baby's hands, crawl over his cheek, and
wash their feet in his milk. Proper screenage will prevent such contamination of food, such
opportunities for carrying disease.

Sunshine, hot water, soap, and fresh air, are the best ordinary every-day disinfectants. It
is possible so to conduct the treatment of a contagious or infectious disease that no other
member of the family may contract it. A few simple but very important hints are:

1. Door knobs are one of the very greatest avenues of contagion--disinfect them.

2. Cleanse the hands both before and after attending to the sick; first, scrub with stiff brush,
soap and water, then dip in alcohol.

3. An epidemic of sore eyes may be stopped by absolute "hand disinfection" and using separate
towels.

4. Do not go visiting when you have a "common cold."

5. Kissing is one of the best ways of spreading many diseases.

6. In cases of contagious and infectious diseases completely cover all excretions from the
body with lime.

7. Country homes would be as healthy as city homes if the privies and stables were screened.

8. In the country, the well water should be boiled; one infected well may be the cause of the
death of a score of beautiful children.

INCUBATION PERIODS

The incubation period of scarlet fever is from one to seven days.
  Diphtheria, any time from one to twelve days.
  Mumps, from one week to three weeks.

Of all the diseases, measles and chicken-pox are probably the most contagious. In scarlet fever
and diphtheria, close contact is necessary for exposure, while whooping cough can actually
be contracted in the open air, young babies being particularly susceptible.

TYPHOID FEVER

Typhoid fever is a disease of the small intestine. Typhoid germs accumulate in the little lymph
nodes of the small intestines and that is the reason why we often have so many hemorrhages
from the bowel--actual ulcerations take place--and if an ulcer is situated in the neighborhood
of a blood vessel hemorrhage may result.

Typhoid fever begins rather insidiously with a slight debility and loss of appetite, but if
a temperature record is kept the fever will be found to rise from one-half to a degree higher
each day. A steady climb in the temperature curve is noted until the end of the first week,
when it remains for a week, possibly 103 or 104 F. After one week it begins slowly to decrease
and, if all goes well, the early part of the fourth week usually finds the temperature about
normal. It is exceedingly important that the child be kept in bed during the entire course
of the disease. The bed pan must be used at each bowel movement or urination.

First Week Treatment. During this week the child may feel quite well, but he should be kept
in bed and sustaining treatments begun--such as wet-sheet packs and cold frictions to the skin
(during which time there should always be external heat to the feet). The diet must be full
and nourishing, but all pastries and "knicknacks" should be avoided. Abundance of fresh fruit
that has been well washed before paring, eggs, pasteurized milk, baked potatoes, and toasted
bread may be taken at regular periods--with an interval of not less than five hours between meals.

The bowels should be opened in the beginning of the disease with a liberal dose of castor oil,
after which daily colonic irrigations should be employed. These enemas should be given at least
once a day, the temperature being about that of the body, with a smaller terminal enema about
five degrees cooler at the close of each bowel cleansing.

Second Week Treatment. The normal temperature at this time is no longer 98.6, it is 101.5 F.
This fever is essential to the curative and defensive processes of the body; and while we do
not care to have the fever fall below 101.5, at the same time nothing is to be gained by allowing
the fever to go up much above 102.5 or 103 degrees F. And so, during the second week, while
the disease is at its height, we make frequent use of the wet-sheet pack, always remembering
that the extremities must be kept warm and never permitting the skin to become blue or mottled
while the cold treatment is being administered. Since the real disease is localized in the
small intestine, we will now describe a very important treatment for the diseased bowel--and
one which is also very useful in combating high temperature.

The Cooling Enema. The temperature of this enema begins one degree higher than that of the
body (supposing the body temperature to be 103, the temperature of the enema would start at
104 F.). This is allowed to flow into the colon and out again, under low pressure, without
disturbing the patient, by means of a glass tube connection (See Fig. 15). The temperature
is quickly brought down to 100, then to 98, then to 90, usually finishing up at 80 or 85 F.
The water is allowed to enter the rectum slowly through a soft rubber catheter (not a hard
rectal point), and as it comes out it will be noted that the water is very warm, sometimes
registering 105, and it is needless to add that if the water goes in at 80 and comes out at
105 F., much heat has been taken from the body; and so, of all the treatments we have to suggest
for typhoid fever, the one just mentioned is possibly the most important. When it is necessary
to keep up this enema for an hour or two, the cool water may cramp the bowels, but this may
be entirely obviated by applying hot compresses to the abdomen.

Another treatment of great importance in this second week is the cold abdominal compress. Much
fever is occasioned in the abdomen because it is the seat of disease, and the much dreaded
hemorrhages which often cause the death of the patient are usually avoided by the use of abdominal
compresses--wrung out of water at 55 F.--the temperature of ordinary well water--and changed
every twenty minutes.

I recall one mother in my dispensary practice who was so poor she could not afford a nurse,
her only helper being a son twelve years old. A nurse went to the house twice each day and
taught this lad of twelve years to give his mother the cooling colonic irrigation; he was also
taught to warm up the abdomen by a hot application and afterwards to apply the cold compresses.
The mother made a good recovery.

During this second week the diet should be sustaining. It should consist of boiled milk, eggs,
fresh fruit and fresh fruit juices, dextrinized grains (hard toast, toasted corn flakes, shredded
wheat biscuits, etc.). The mouth should be kept scrupulously clean, for in all the infectious
and contagious diseases there is always the possibility of gangrene in the mouth if it is neglected.

Third Week Treatment. This is the week we look for hemorrhage from the bowel unless the abdomen
has been well treated during the second week; and even so, the cool compresses to the abdomen
will be continued well into the third week--also the daily or semi-daily enema. The skin is
kept in good condition with soap washing and friction baths, and a fairly liberal diet is maintained.
During the whole course of the disease the skin is never allowed to get blue or mottled, being
quickly restored to the normal red color by the mustard sheet bath, the short hot-blanket pack,
or the dry-blanket pack with hot-water bottles. Under no circumstances let the child leave
the room or his bed for at least another week.

MUMPS

Infants are rarely affected with mumps. It is a disease of the salivary glands and (as a rule)
is usually preceded by pain between the ear and the angle of the jaw, accompanied in a short
time by swelling and temperature. It is distinctly contagious even during the incubation period.
There is much tenderness on pressure, and chewing is difficult and may be impossible. It usually
occurs on the face and only one side may be affected. The bowels should be kept open, the mouth
should be kept clean, and the side of the face should be protected by a layer of cotton held
in place by bandages.

Hot fomentations may be applied if the pain is severe. The electric light bulb on an extension
cord, that was mentioned in connection with earache, is very comforting in this condition.

Isolation should be maintained for ten days or two weeks after all symptoms have disappeared.

SCARLET FEVER

Scarlet fever is one of childhood's most dreaded diseases because of, first, its long quarantine;
second, its terrible possibilities of contagion; and, third, its sequelae.

Absolute quarantine is necessary until ten days after the last signs of desquamation have disappeared.

This disease is always alarming because of the possibilities of its sequelae--the danger of
pneumonia, inflammation of the ears, abscesses of the glands of the neck, and nephritis (inflammation
of the kidneys).

Scarlet fever is highly contagious at any time during its onset and course. Among the first
symptoms of the disease are sore throat, swollen glands, fever, etc. Vomiting on a street car
or at the movie may spread the disease to more than one child who might otherwise have escaped.
One child who may have only a very light form of the disease may give it to another child in
the most severe form. Any such group of classic symptoms--vomiting, fever, rapid pulse, and
sore throat--should cause any parent immediately to isolate the little sufferer for several
days--awaiting the "rash"--which usually puts in its appearance after three or four days of
increasing temperature.

This rash has an appearance "all of its own," unlike any other. Because the fine "meal-like"
red points are in such close proximity, the skin assumes a smooth "lobster red" color that
is never to be forgotten. After three days of increasing redness, the color begins slowly to
fade, and after four or five days of this fading a peculiar peeling takes place, whose scales
vary in size from a small fleck to casts of the whole of the soles of the feet and the palms
of the hands.

During the height of the disease, the throat is very red, the tonsils are not only inflamed,
but covered over with white patches, the head aches and the tongue possesses a peculiar coating
through which peep the red points of the swollen papillae, presenting the classic "strawberry
tongue" of scarlet fever.

After ten days the fever disappears and the "real sick" stage of the disease is in the past.

Each morning of the ten previous days a small dose of Epsom salts is usually administered and
the itching, which so often accompanies the rash, is relieved by carbolized-water sponge baths.

The nose, throat, and ears receive daily care--sprays to the nose and gargles to the throat,
as well as special swabbing to the tonsils.

The physician in charge of the case will note the urinary findings, guard the heart and kidneys,
prevent the spreading of the scales of desquamation by frequent rubbing of the skin with oil,
and otherwise work for the future well-being of the patient.

MEASLES

Measles, one of the most common diseases of childhood, is not to be regarded lightly, for very
often its sequelae--running ears, weak eyes, and bronchial coughs--may prove very serious and
troublesome. Tuberculosis of the lungs not infrequently follows in the wake of measles. The
early symptoms of measles are so mild that often the child is out of doors, at school, or about
his usual play, until the second or third day of the fever. He was supposed merely to be suffering
from a simple "cold in the head."

On the third or fourth day the patient begins heavy sneezing and wears a stupid expression;
and it is then that the mother ascertains that his temperature is perhaps 101 to 102 F. He
is put to bed and the next day the rash usually appears. The rash is peculiar to itself, not
usually mistaken for anything else, being a purplish red, slightly elevated, flattened papule,
about the size of a split pea. The coughing, which is very annoying, usually remains until
about the seventh or eighth day--at which time the fever also disappears.

The bowels must be kept open; a daily bath be given--in which has been dissolved a small amount
of bicarbonate of soda (simple baking soda)--after which an oil rub should be administered.
The nose should be frequently sprayed with three per cent camphor-menthol-alboline spray, while
the throat is gargled with equal parts of alcohol and water. The feet should be kept warm by
external heat, while the physician in charge may order additional attention to the chest, such
as a pneumonia jacket, etc.

Care should be taken to guard against "catching cold," for bronchitis or pneumonia is quite
likely to develop in many cases of measles. The eyes should be protected by goggles and the
room should be darkened; under no circumstances should the little patient be allowed to read.
Carelessness in this respect may mean weakened eyesight all the rest of his life. Until two
weeks after the rash has disappeared, the little fellow should be kept by himself, for the
desquamation keeps up almost continuously during this time.

The food during the course of the disease is a liquid and soft diet. Children should never
be allowed to go to a party or gathering with a cold in the head; the mothers of a group of
small children will never forget the time that one certain mother allowed her little fellow
to attend a party with "simply a cold in the head." He laughed, talked, and sneezed during
the afternoon and when he went home the rash appeared that night, while eight of the ten exposed
children came down with measles during the next two weeks.

CHICKENPOX

The incubation period of chickenpox is from ten to seventeen days. It is a mild disease, with
a troublesome rash consisting of widely scattered pimples appearing over the scalp, face, and
body. These pimples soon became vesicles (small blisters), which in turn quickly become pustular,
afterwards drying up with heavy crust formation. Severe itching which attends these pustules
may be greatly allayed by either the daily carbolic-acid-water bath or a baking-soda bath.
The itching must be relieved by proper measures, for if the crust is removed from the top of
the blebs by scratching, a scar usually results. The bowels should be kept open, the diet should
be soft. Rigidly isolate, for chickenpox is highly contagious.

SMALLPOX

This disease occurs oftenest during the cold season. It spares no one unless vaccinated, attacking
children and adults alike. The early symptoms are: headache, pain in the back, high fever,
vomiting, and general lassitude. In many respects these resemble the symptoms of the grippe,
while on the third day the eruption appears. The pimples are hard and feel like shot under
the skin. Within a day or two these shotlike pimples have grown and pushed themselves beyond
the skin into little conical vesicles which soon turn to pus. By the eighth or ninth day crusts
are formed over the vesicle, beginning to fall off about the fifteenth day.

Patients are quarantined usually eight weeks and when a case of smallpox in the home breaks
out everyone in the family should be revaccinated. The strictest isolation is important from
the first of the disease.

We will not enter into the treatment of smallpox, for medical aid is sought at once and usually
the patient is removed to a special isolation hospital.

VACCINATION

The history of the change brought about in the Philippines since vaccination has been introduced
is an argument of itself which ought to convince the most skeptical of the value of vaccination.
By all means, every child in a fair degree of health should be vaccinated. It is wise to vaccinate
babies before the teething period--from the third to the sixth month. Babies with any skin
trouble or suffering from malnutrition, but not living in a smallpox district, should be vaccinated
during the second year. In young babies, under six months, the leg is the proper place to receive
the vaccination.

If proper surgical cleanliness is practiced and ample protection is afforded in after dressing,
vaccination need not be a taxing process. The child suffers from general lassitude--a little
drowsiness with loss of appetite and a small amount of fever--but this passes off in a reasonable
length of time, especially if he is not overfed and his bowels are looked after. On the second
or third day after vaccination a red papule appears which soon grows larger, and, after five
or six days, it becomes filled with a watery fluid. By the tenth day it has the appearance
of a pustule about the size of a ten-cent piece, surrounded by a red areola about three inches
in diameter. At the end of two weeks the pustule has dried down to a good crust or scab, in
another week it falls off, leaving a pitted white scar.

If the vaccination does not take, it should be repeated after an interval of two months.

DIPHTHERIA

Diphtheria is a disease much dreaded during childhood and adolescence. It may attack any age--even
little babies are susceptible. It begins with a general feeling of heavy, drowsy lassitude
with a sore throat. White spots appear on the tonsils which may resemble a simple follicular
tonsillitis, while in a short time white patches spread over the throat and tonsils.

It is not at all uncommon for this membrane to attack the nose, producing a bloody, pustular
discharge; and when it does attack the nose, it is none the less contagious and must be regarded
just as seriously. A physician is called at once, and, not only to the child, but to the other
members of the family, antitoxin is immediately administered. The disease runs a regular course
and its most dangerous complication is the membrane which forms in the larynx and threatens
to suffocate the child unless prompt intubation is performed--the slipping of a silver tube
in the larynx to prevent suffocation and death. The early use of antitoxin greatly lessens
all these serious complications.

Care must be exercised to prevent sudden heart failure; and this is done by raising the child
to an upright position with the utmost care; while you insist upon him lying quietly upon his
back or his side, long after the disease has left his throat. While the throat or nose is the
seat of disease, the toxins from these most dreaded diphtheritic microbes spread through the
lymph channels and the blood vessels to the heart itself--so weakening that organ that it sometimes
suddenly fails, or becomes more or less crippled for life. These serious results are to be
prevented by the science of good nursing and the prompt use of antitoxin. In these days the
"Schick test" may be administered for the purpose of ascertaining whether one is susceptible
to contracting diphtheria.

A physician is always in charge of diphtheria, and he will supply directions for the bowels,
the diet, and the sprays for the nose and throat, and the general well-being of the suffering
child. Isolation and quarantine should continue for two weeks, and in bad cases three weeks,
after the membrane has disappeared from the throat.

WHOOPING COUGH

A child suffering from a continuous cough, particularly if it is accompanied by a whoop or
a condition which is so often seen in children who cough--not able to stop--should not be taken
to church, nor to the movies, nor allowed to go to school; neither should he be allowed to
leave his own yard. The average duration of the disease is usually six weeks. The child should
have an abundance of fresh air, should spend much of his time out of doors, and while in the
house should avoid dust of every kind; at night he should not be exposed to drafts. Call the
physician early in the case and he may attempt to thwart the progress of the disease by certain
administrations of vaccine medication.

In very bad cases, where a young child cannot catch his breath and gets blue in the face--which,
fortunately, is uncommon--he should be slapped in the face with a towel wet in cold water;
or, he may be lifted into a tub of warm water, then quickly in cold water, then back into the
warm, etc. Hygienic measures should prevail, such as keeping the bowels open, the skin clean,
and the use of the usual throat gargles and nasal sprays. Do not be misguided by the old-time
thought that whooping cough must run its course; for, if medical aid is promptly secured, the
disease may often be cut short and the severe paroxysms greatly lessened.

EYE INFECTIONS

Not long ago while in North Dakota near Canada, we took a trip one day just over the border
to visit several villages of Russian peasants. We found the boys and girls of nearly the entire
village suffering from trachoma--a dangerous, infectious disease of the eyes which spreads
alarmingly from one child to another.

We saw the disease in all of its varying degrees among the children. Some of them had swollen,
reddened lids. A discharge of pus was coming from the eyes of others, and they could not look
toward a light or the sun. This disease is spread in a hundred different ways--through the
common use of wash basins, towels, handkerchiefs, tools, toys, door knobs, gates, etc., and
that is the reason why these isolated villages of foreign people who could neither read nor
write the English language were nearly all so sorely afflicted.

The ordinary condition of "catching cold in the eye" ("pink eye") is just as infectious as
the trachoma which we have mentioned, although it is more of an acute disorder and nothing
like so serious.

In all such cases a physician is to be called immediately, isolate the patient, and give strict
attention to carrying out the doctor's orders.

Another form of inflammation of the eye which was mentioned in a previous chapter, is the inflammation
of the eye of the newborn.

In most civilized districts at the present, especially where the cases are attended by a physician,
the eyes of all newborn babies are treated with either argyrol or silver nitrate. Just as soon
as defective sight is discovered in the child the eyes should be examined at once and proper
glasses fitted. While the glimmer and shimmer of moving pictures may seriously interfere with
the child's vision, on the other hand, this very thing often discovers the defect in the eyesight
earlier than it would otherwise be found out.

RUNNING EARS

Inflammation of the ears was fully covered in our discussion of adenoids and tonsils, but we
would like to add at this time that under no circumstances should a running ear be regarded
lightly. A chronic mastoiditis (inflammation of the middle ear) often follows measles, scarlet
fever, adenoid infection, and inflammation of the tonsils. The attention of a specialist should
be called to it and his instructions most carefully carried out; for, when we have a sudden
stopping of the discharge from the ear with high fever and pain behind the ear, sometimes an
operation is imperative or the child may be lost.

CHAPTER XXIX

RESPIRATORY DISEASES

Next to digestive disturbances, babies suffer more frequently from respiratory disorders--colds,
bronchitis, and pneumonia. In fact, during very early infancy, pneumonia heads the list of
infant deaths, only to be displaced a few months later by that most dreaded summer disease--diarrhea.

Little tiny babies are so helpless--they are so dependent upon their seniors for life itself--that
our responsibility is indeed great. We should put forth our best endeavor to avoid and prevent
common colds. Among all the common maladies that afflict the human race "colds" probably head
the list; and, in the case of babies and the younger children, the common colds often go on
into coughs, croup, bronchitis, and even pneumonia.

WHY BABIES CATCH COLD

  1.  Someone has brought the infection to him.
  2.  Somebody coughed in his face.
  3.  Germ-laden hands have handled the baby.
  4.  He has drunk from an "infected" glass.
  5.  There was not enough moisture in the air.
  6.  Somebody wiped his face with an infected towel.
  7.  Baby was allowed to play on the cold floor.
  8.  Baby's lowered vitality could not stand the combined strain
      of overeating and clogged up bowels.
  9.  Baby was kissed in the mouth by a "cold-germ" carrier.
  10. Baby was dressed too warmly--and then taken out.
  11. Somebody carelessly breathed in baby's face.
  12. He slept in a stuffy room.
  13. His extremities got chilled.
  14. Baby has adenoids or diseased tonsils.

Babies should not be allowed to sit or play on cold, drafty floors. They may play on mother's
bed whose open side is protected with high-back chairs, or they may play in their own bed whose
raised sides are sheltered by blankets.

It is possible for a mother so to disinfect her hands, and so garb herself with clean, washable
garments, that, although she may be suffering from an acute cold, she may continue to care
for her baby and the baby need not contract the cold.

CORYZA--COLD IN THE HEAD

This most annoying ailment, a cold in the head, is particularly hard on babies because the
obstruction of the nasal passages not only makes breathing difficult, but renders nursing well-nigh
impossible.

The throat end of the eustachium tube (the ear tube) is found in the upper and back part of
the throat, just behind the nose. The infection of the cold extends from both the nose and
throat and there results a spreading inflammatory process on through these ear tubes into the
middle ear itself. Now if this tube swells so much that it entirely closes, as so often happens
in cases of "cold in the head" as well as in constant irritation from adenoids, then may follow
a vast train of difficulties--earache, mastoiditis, etc.--with the result that the tiny bones
in the middle ear which vibrate so exquisitely may become ankylosed (stiffened) and deafness
often follow. Everything known must be done to prevent baby's catching "cold in the head."
If the sinuses become infected it may also lead to serious consequences.

When the nose becomes clogged it may be opened up by repeatedly disinfecting the inside of
the nose with oily sprays such as simple albolene or camphorated-albolene spray.

The bowels should be quickly opened by castor oil, and the feedings should be cut down at least
two-thirds or one-half.

Public drinking cups should always be avoided and kissing the baby be tabooed.

GRIPPE

The treatment of influenza in infancy and childhood is to avoid contact with an older person
suffering with the grippe. Ordinarily, the so-called "grippe" is a common, mixed infection--not
true influenza. Coryza and cough are the chief respiratory symptoms which attend these widespread
epidemics. Often vomiting and diarrhea are seen in the young sufferers.

In cases of grippe put the child to bed and call the doctor. In the case of the older children,
the treatment and care to be recommended has been fully outlined by the author in the little
work entitled The Cause and Cure of Colds.

Complications from the grippe are very frequent in children--such as severe diarrhea, enlarged
glands of the neck, running ears, bronchitis, pneumonia, and sometimes tuberculosis.

Every effort should be put forth to isolate and quarantine the first member of the family to
be stricken with grippe so that the remaining members may, if possible, escape an uncomfortable
and unhappy siege.

SORE THROAT

The danger of permanent deafness which so often follows a sore throat as well as a cold in
the head, should cause every mother or caretaker earnestly to begin treatment at the very first
sign of a sore throat. When a little baby gulps or cries on swallowing, a sore throat should
always be suspected and remedial measures promptly instituted.

A most convenient article with which to examine an infant's throat is a small pocket flashlight.
The pillars of the throat or the tonsils or both may be much inflamed, and since tonsillitis,
diphtheria, and scarlet fever all begin with a sore throat, it is wise early to seek medical
counsel in order that the differential diagnosis may be promptly made. We urge the mother,
as a rule, not to attempt to diagnose severe cases of sore throat. Send for the physician.

Tonsillitis is a severe form of sore throat which, fortunately, rarely troubles tiny infants;
but for every sore throat, while waiting for medical help to arrive, lay your plans to empty
the bowels, diminish the quantity of the food, swab or spray the throat, and later closely
follow the physician's advice concerning the general treatment of the child.

ADENOIDS

Adenoid growths appear as grape-like lymphoid formations located in the upper and posterior-nasal
pharynx. These adenoids secrete a very toxic, thickened fluid, which slowly makes its way down
along the back wall of the throat, and reddens and inflames first the anterior and posterior
pillars of the throat and then often inflames and enlarges the tonsils.

Adenoids not only obstruct the respiratory passage way to the throat and lungs, but they also
exert a harmful influence on the general physical and mental development of the child.

It is nothing less than criminal for heedless parents to allow adenoid growths to remain in
the child's post-nasal pharynx. The little fellow's face is disfigured, more or less for life,
his mentality dulled, while he is compelled to breathe through his mouth.

An almost miraculous change often follows the complete removal of these obstructive adenoids--the
child takes a renewed interest in everything about him. More oxygen finds its way to the tissues,
his face takes on better color, he gains in weight, in fact, there appears to be a complete
rejuvenation mentally and physically.

The signs or symptoms of adenoids are mouth breathing, restlessness at night, snoring, recurring
colds, nasal discharge, swelling of the glands of the neck, poor nutrition, loss of appetite,
bed wetting, impaired hearing, lack of attention, and mental dullness. The removal of adenoids
is neither a serious or difficult procedure, and they may safely be removed at any age.

DISEASED TONSILS

Tonsils which remain permanently enlarged and show signs of disease and debilitation--filled
crypts--may be removed as early as the fourth or fifth year, if necessary. If proper treatment
does not improve the tonsils as the child grows older, their removal should seriously be considered.
The tonsils may serve some special secretory or defensive function during the first few years
of life and we think best, therefore, not to advise their removal--except in extreme cases--until
the child is at least four or five years old.

When it is necessary to attack the tonsils, they should be thoroughly dissected out--not merely
burned or clipped off. If they are properly removed, the danger of heart trouble, rheumatism,
and many other infections may be considered as greatly lessened.

After five years of age the normal tonsils should begin to shrink, and at about the beginning
of adolescence they should be no larger than a small lima bean, hidden almost completely out
of sight behind the pillars of the throat. While healthy tonsils may serve some useful purpose
even in the adult, it is almost universally conceded that the thoroughly bad and diseased tonsil
is utterly useless to the body--only an open gateway for the entrance of infection.

BRONCHITIS

A very common disorder of early infancy and childhood is bronchitis--an inflammation of the
bronchial tubes--accompanied by severe coughing. Its tendency to pass into pneumonia renders
it a disease for skilled hands to treat--a disorder hardly safe for even the well-meaning mother
to undertake to manage without medical advice and help. And since bronchitis is usually accompanied
by alarming symptoms of high fever, weakened heart, embarrassed breathing, mottled or blue
skin, green stools, troublesome cough, disturbed sleep, "stopped up nose," and "choked up throat,"
it is of utmost importance not only to seek medical aid early, but also that the mother, herself,
should have definite ideas concerning the proper manner of doing the following things in the
line of treatment:

  1.  Making and applying a mustard paste.
  2.  The fashioning of an oil-silk jacket.
  3.  Improvising a steam tent.
  4.  Flushing out the colon, and a score of other things which
      the watchful doctor may want given any moment.

Mustard Pastes are prepared by mixing one part of mustard and six parts of flour in warm water
and applying to the chest between two pieces of thin muslin. It is left on just seven minutes
and then talcum powder is thickly sprinkled on the moist, reddened skin; this powder quickly
absorbs all the moisture and leaves the skin in a good condition--ready for another paste in
three hours if it is so ordered.

The Oil-Silk Jacket, or pneumonia jacket, consists of three layers--the inside of cheesecloth,
an inner thin sheet of cotton wadding, and an outside layer of oil silk (procurable at any
drug store). It should open on the shoulder and under the arm on the same side. It is worn
constantly (change for fresh cheesecloth and cotton every day) during the inflammatory stage;
it is removed only during the mustard pastes.

A Steam Tent may be prepared by placing a sheet over the infant's crib and allowing steam to
enter from a large paper funnel placed in the nose of a tea kettle of boiling water kept hot
on a small stove of some sort.

The mattress and bedding are covered with rubber sheeting and the infant's clothes protected
from moisture. The baby should remain in this steamy atmosphere ten minutes at a time.

Another method is to hold baby in arms near the large end of a big funnel placed in a tea kettle
on the gas stove or range, and then have an assistant help hold a sheet tent over both the
mother and babe. Or the baby carriage may be placed over a small tub of water into which are
dropped several hot bricks. A sheet canopy spread over the carriage holds the steam in and
baby reaps the benefits of the warm moisture.

Colonic Flushing is necessary when green stools accompany bronchitis. A well-lubricated end
of a large Davidson's syringe is inserted into the rectum, and with the hips of the baby brought
to the edge of a basin (the heels held in the hands of the assistant), water is forced into
the rectum. Not more than one ordinary cup of water should be introduced at any one time. After
expulsion, another may be gently injected.

The diet in bronchitis is always reduced so that no extra work will be thrown on the already
overtaxed constitution of the child.

Absolute rest is necessary and perfect quiet should prevail. The humidity of the room should
not be lower than 50 at any time, while the air should be moderately cool and fresh.

Numerous other details which may be necessary in the management of bronchitis will be directed
by the physicians and nurses in charge of the case.

SPASMODIC CROUP

It is believed that children with enlarged tonsils and adenoids are much more subject to croup
than others. Although very sudden in its onset and very alarming, spasmodic croup, fortunately,
is seldom dangerous. A little child goes to bed in apparently normal condition and wakes up
suddenly with a coarse metallic cough, difficult breathing, and with a distressed expression
on the face.

Alternate hot and cold compresses should be applied to the throat--first the hot cloths (wrung
from very hot water) being applied over the throat, which should be covered with a single thickness
of dry flannel. Then after three minutes of the hot cloths a very cold cloth is applied to
the skin itself for one half minute; then more of the hot compress, followed again by the short
cold, until five such changes have been made. A bronchitis tent should be quickly improvised
so that the child can be "steamed."

Vomiting must be produced by kerosene (three or four drops on sugar), alum and molasses, or
ipecac (ten drops every fifteen minutes). Some remedy must be administered continuously until
free vomiting occurs. A good dose of castor oil should be given after the spasm. Suitable treatment
should be administered through the day to prevent a recurrence of the attack the next night.

The general vital resistance should be raised by outdoor life, improved circulation, good food;
adenoids if present, should be removed.

Medical advice should be sought in every case of severe croup, for membraneous croup usually
is indicative of diphtheria, and the diagnosis is important, as on it hangs the determination
of the administration of antitoxin.

PNEUMONIA

Pneumonia is always a serious disease. It is accompanied by high fever, painful, very short
cough, and rapid breathing with a moving in and out of the edges of the nose as well as the
spaces between the ribs. The possibilities of complications are always great--the dangers are
many--so that the combined watchfulness of both the mother and a proficient trained nurse are
required; not to mention the skill of the physician.

The steam tent, the mustard paste, the oil-silk jacket and the colonic flushing (described
earlier in this chapter) may all be asked for by the physician in his untiring efforts to prevent
dangerous complications during the course of the disease.

Plenty of moderately cool, fresh air (without drafts) is of great benefit. Never allow blue
finger tips, or cold ear tips to exist; send at once for the doctor and administer a hot bath,
or wrap in a sheet dipped in hot mustard water while awaiting his arrival. No mother should
think of attempting to carry her baby through an attack of bronchitis or pneumonia without
the best medical help available.

CHAPTER XXX

THE NERVOUS CHILD

While each child possesses an individuality all its own, nevertheless, there are certain general
principles of psychologic conduct and family discipline which are more or less applicable to
all children. The so-called nervous child, in addition to the usual methods of child culture,
stands in need of special attention as concerns its early discipline and training. This chapter
will, therefore, be devoted to special suggestions with regard to the management and training
of those children who are by heredity predisposed to nervousness, over-excitability, and who
possess but a minimum of self-control.

HEREDITARY NERVOUSNESS

The so-called nervous child--all things equal--is the child who is born into the world with
an unbalanced or inefficiently controlled nervous system; and while it is all too true that
the common nursery methods of "spoiling the child" are often equally to blame with heredity
for the production of an erratic disposition and an uncontrolled temper, nevertheless, it is
now generally recognized that the foundation of the difficulties of the nervous child reaches
back into its immediate and remote ancestral heredity.

I no longer doubt but that many of these babies with a bad nervous heredity, who are born predisposed
to Saint Vitus' dance, bad temper, chronic worry, neurasthenia, and hysteria could be spared
much of their early troubles and later miseries by prompt and proper methods of early nursery
discipline.

These nervous babies are born into the world with an abnormal lack of self-control. Their "inhibition
control" over the natural and spontaneous tendency of the nervous system to manifest its inherent
impulses and passing whims is decidedly deficient. The child is unduly sensitive, whines, hollers,
or flies into a violent rage when its will is crossed in the least degree. Such a child sometimes
keeps its mother living in constant terror because, when its will is crossed in any particular,
it will scream and hold its breath until it turns black in the face and sometimes actually
goes into a convulsion.

In dealing with these unfortunate little ones, fathers and mothers, while they should be firm
and persistent in their methods of correction, should also be kind and patient; fully recognizing
that whatever undesirable traits the little ones manifest they have come by honestly--these
naughty tendencies being the result either of heredity or spoiling, for both of which the parents
stand responsible.

EARLY TRAINING

One of the very first things that a child, especially the nervous child, should learn is that
crying and other angerful manifestations accomplish absolutely nothing. The greatest part of
the successful training of the nervous child should take place before it is three and one-half
years of age. It should early learn to lie quietly in its little bed and be entirely happy
without receiving any attention or having any fuss made over it. It should not become the center
of a circle of admiring and indulgent family friends and caretakers who will succeed in effectually
destroying what little degree of self-control it may be fortunate enough to possess.

When the little one is discovered to be nervous, fretful, impatient, and easily irritated early
in the morning, it should be left alone in its bed or in the nursery until it quiets down.
If it has a good, healthy crying spell, leave it alone. Let it early get used to living with
itself--teach the little fellow to get along with the world as it is--and you will do a great
deal toward preventing a host of neurasthenic miseries and a flood of hysterical sorrows later
on in life.

You must not expect to train the nervous child by the simple and easy methods which are successful
in the case of a normal child; that is, you cannot repeat a simple discipline two or three
times and have the child learn the lesson. In the case of the high-strung nervous child it
requires "line upon line and precept upon precept;" for, whereas a normal child will respond
to a certain discipline after it is repeated a half dozen times, the nervous child will require
the persistent repetition of such a discipline from twenty-five to one hundred times before
the lesson sinks into his consciousness sufficiently to enable him to gain control of his erratic
and unbalanced nervous mechanism.

SPOILING THE CHILD

As bad as all spoiling methods are in child culture, they are decidedly disastrous--almost
fatal--in the case of the nervous child; and yet it is these delicate, sensitive, cute little
things that are the very ones who are most frequently the worst spoiled. Nervous children simply
must not be played with all the time. They must be by themselves a great deal, at least this
is true in their earlier years.

The nervous baby must early learn absolute respect for authority, so that what it lacks in
its own nervous control may be partially made up for by parental suggestion and discipline.
Of course, as suggested in a later chapter, the more ideal methods of suggestion, education,
and persuasion should be employed in your efforts to secure obedience and promote self-control;
but, when through either the deep-rooted incorrigibility of a child, or the inefficiency of
the parent's efforts in the employment of suggestion--no matter what the cause of the failure
of your ideal methods to control temper, stop crying, or otherwise put down the juvenile rebellion,
whether the child has been spoiled on account of company, sickness or through your carelessness--when
you cannot effectively and immediately enforce your will any other way, do not hesitate to
punish; spank promptly and vigorously and spank repeatedly if necessary to accomplish your
purpose. You must not fail in the case of the nervous child to accomplish exactly what you
start out to do.

When the little fellow wakes up in the night and cries, see if he needs anything and administer
to him. If you have previously tried the method of letting him "cry it out," which is usually
entirely sufficient in the case of a normal child, and if such treatment does not seem to cure
him, then speak to him firmly, give him to understand that he must stop crying, and if he does
not, turn him over and administer a good spanking--and repeat if necessary to get results.
In dealing with a nervous child we must follow the directions on the bottle of the old-fashioned
liniment "rub in until relief is obtained."

No "spoiling practices" should be countenanced in the case of nervous children. They should
be taught to sleep undisturbed in a room in the presence of usual noises. They should not be
allowed to grow up with a sleeping-room always darkened by day and a light to sleep by at night.
They should be taught to sleep on without being disturbed even if someone does enter the room;
they should be taught to sleep normally without having to quiet and hush the whole neighborhood.

PLAYMATES

The early play of nervous children should be carefully supervised and organized. Under no circumstance
should they be allowed exclusively to play with children younger than themselves. They must
not be allowed to dictate and control their playmates; it is far better that they should play
at least a part of the time with older children who will force them to occupy subordinate rôles
in their affairs of play; in this way much may be accomplished toward preventing the development
of a selfish, headstrong, and intolerant attitude. When the nervous child is miffed or peeved
at play and wants to quit because he cannot have his way, see to it that he quickly takes his
place back in the ranks of his playfellows, and thus early teach him how to react to defeat
and disappointment. The nervous child must not be allowed to grow up with a disposition that
will in some later crisis cause him to "get mad and quit."

If the nervous baby has older brothers and sisters, see to it that he does not, through pet
and peeve and other manifestations of temper, control the family and thus dictate the trend
of all the children's play. Early train him to be manly, to play fair, and when his feelings
are hurt or things do not go just to his liking, teach him, in the language of the street,
to be "game." It is equally important that the little girls be taught in the same way how to
take disappointment and defeat without murmur or complaint.

TEACHING SELF-CONTROL

When nervous children grow up, especially if their parents are well to do, and they are not
forced to work for a living, they are prone to develop into erratic, neurasthenic, and hysterical
women, and worrying, inefficient, and nervous men; and in later years they throng the doctor's
offices with both their real and imaginary complaints. These patients always feel that they
are different from other people, that something terrible is the matter with them or that something
awful is about to happen to them. Their brains constantly swarm with fears and premonitions
of disease, disaster, and despair, while their otherwise brilliant intellects are confused
and handicapped because of these "spoiled" and "hereditary" nervous disturbances--with the
result that both their happiness and usefulness in life is largely destroyed.

The fundamental abnormal characteristic of that great group of nerve-patients who throng the
doctor's office is sensitiveness, suggestibility, and lack of self-control. Sensitiveness is
nothing more or less than a refined form of selfishness, while lack of self-control is merely
the combined end-product of heredity and childhood spoiling. I am a great believer in, and
practitioner of, modern methods of psychological child culture, but let me say to the fond
parent who has a nervous child, when you have failed to teach the child self-control by suggestive
methods, do not hesitate to punish, for of all cases it is doubly true of the nervous child
that if you "spare the rod" you are sure to "spoil the child."

Let me urge parents to secure this self-control and enforce this discipline before the child
is three or four years of age; correct the child at a time when your purpose can be accomplished
without leaving in his subconscious mind so many vivid memories of these personal and, sometimes,
more or less brutal physical encounters. Every year you put off winning the disciplinary fight
with your offspring, you enormously increase the danger and likelihood of alienating his affections
and otherwise destroying that beautiful and sympathetic relationship which should always exist
between a child and his parents. In other words, the older the child, the less the good you
accomplish by discipline and the more the personal resentment toward the parent is aroused
on the part of the child.

CRIME AND INTEMPERANCE

While it is generally admitted that feeble-mindedness lies at the foundation of most crime,
we must also recognize that failure on the part of parents to teach their children self-control
is also responsible for many otherwise fairly normal youths falling into crime and intemperance.
The parents of a nervous child must recognize that they will in all probability be subject
to special danger along these lines as they grow up. The nervous child, as it grows up, is
quite likely to be erratic, emotional, indecisive, and otherwise easily influenced by his associates
and environment.

Nervous children are more highly suggestible than others, and if they have not been taught
to control their appetites and desires, their wants and passions, they are going to form an
especially susceptible class of society from which may be recruited high-class criminals, dipsomaniacs,
and other unfortunates.

It is true that any spoiled child, however normal its heredity, may turn out bad in these respects
if it is not properly trained; but what we are trying to accomplish here is to emphasize to
parents that the nervous child is doubly prone to go wrong and suffer much sorrow in after
life if he is not early and effectively taught self-control.

UNSPOILING THE CHILD

If the child of nervous tendencies forms the habit of crying, sulking, or otherwise misbehaving
when it is denied its desires, or when something it wants done is not immediately attended
to, it will be found an excellent plan simply to stand still and let the little fellow have
it out with himself, in the meanwhile kindly reminding him to say, "please mamma," "please
papa," etc. I well remember one nervous little girl who would yell at the top of her voice
and become black in the face the moment she wanted a door opened or anything else. A few weeks
of patience and firmness on the part of the mother entirely cured her of this unbecoming trait.

As a rule, it will be found best not to argue with the nervous child. The moment your commands
are not heeded, when you have admonished the child once or twice without effect, take him quickly
to the crib or the nursery and there leave him alone, isolated, until he is in a state of mind
to manifest a kindly spirit and an obedient disposition. It is an excellent plan quietly and
quickly to deprive such children of their pleasures temporarily, in order to produce thoughtfulness;
and these methods are often more efficacious than the infliction of varying degrees of pain
under the guise of punishment.

Nervous children must be taught to go to sleep by themselves. They are not to be rocked or
allowed to hold the hand of the mother or the caretaker. The nervous baby should not be encouraged
to exhibit its cuteness for the delectation of the family or the amusement of strangers and
visitors. He should be especially trained in early and regular habits, taking particular pains
to see that bed wetting and similar bad habits are early overcome; otherwise, he may drag along
through early life and become the cause of great embarrassment both to himself and his parents.

The control of these nervous habits is somewhat like the management of the slipping of the
wheels of a locomotive when the track is wet and slippery. The little folks ofttimes endeavor
to apply the brakes, but they are minus the sand which keeps the wheels from slipping. The
parent, with his well-planned discipline, is able to supply this essential element, and thus
the child is enabled to gain a sufficient amount of self-control to prevent him making a continuous
spectacle of himself.

When nervous children do not walk or talk early, let them alone. Of course, if later on it
is discovered that they are manifestly backward children, something must be done about it;
but if the nervous child is encouraged to talk too soon there is great danger of his developing
into a stutterer or a stammerer.

PREVENTING HYSTERIA

Every year we have pass through our hands men and women, especially women, who possess beautiful
characters, who have noble intellects, and who have high aims and holy ambitions in life, but
whose careers have been well-nigh ruined, almost shattered, because of the hysterical tendency
which ever accompanies them, and which, just as soon as the stress and strain of life reaches
a certain degree of intensity, unfailingly produces its characteristic breakdown; the patient
is seized with confusion, is overcome by feeling, indulges in an emotional sprawl, is flooded
with terrible apprehensions and distracting sensations, may even go into a convulsive fit,
and, in extreme cases, even become unconscious and rigidly stiff.

Now, in the vast majority of cases, if this nervous patient, when a baby, had been thoroughly
disciplined and taught proper self-control before it was four years of age, it would have developed
into quite a model little citizen; and while throughout life it would have borne more or less
of a hysteria stigma, nevertheless it would have possessed a sufficient amount of self-control
to have gotten along with dignity and success; in fact, the possibilities are so tremendous,
the situation is so terrible in the case of these nervous babies, that we might almost say
that, in the majority of such, success and failure in life will be largely determined by the
early and effective application of these methods of preventive discipline.

I was recently consulted by a patient whose nervous system was in a deplorable state, who had
lost almost complete mental control of herself, and who really presented a pathetic spectacle
as she told of the fears and worries that enthralled her. In an effort to get to the bottom
of this patient's heredity I had a conference with her father, and I learned that this woman,
in her childhood days, had been constantly humored--allowed to have everything she wanted.
She was a delicate and sensitive little thing and the parents could not bear to hear her cry,
it made her sick, it gave her convulsions, it produced sleepless nights, it destroyed her appetite,
and so she grew up in this pampered way. The father recognized the greatness of his mistake
and he told me with tears in his eyes how, when the ringing of the school bell disturbed his
little girl baby, he saw the school directors and had them stop ringing the bell, and he even
stopped the ringing of the church bells. He was an influential citizen and could even stop
the blowing of the whistles if it disturbed his precious little daughter.

And so this woman has grown up with this nervous system naturally weakened by heredity and
further weakened by "spoiling"; and fortunate indeed she will be if off and on the most of
her life she is not seeking the advice of a physician in her efforts to gain that self-control
which her parents could have so easily put in her possession at the time she was three or four
years of age, if they had only spent a few hours then, instead of the many months and years
that subsequently have been devoted to medical attention.

METHODS OF DISCIPLINE

We run into many snags when we undertake to discipline the nervous baby. The first is that
it will sometimes cry so hard that it will get black in the face and may even have a convulsion;
occasionally a small blood vessel may be ruptured on some part of the body, usually the face.
When you see the little one approaching this point, turn it over and administer a sound spanking
and it will instantly catch its breath. This will not have to be repeated many times until
that particular difficulty will be largely under control.

It will be discovered when you undertake to break a bad habit in the case of a spoiled child
who is of a nervous temperament, that your discipline interferes with the child's appetite
and nutrition. The delicate little creature who has perhaps already given you no end of trouble
regarding its feeding, will begin to lose in weight, and even the doctor often becomes so alarmed
that he advises against all further methods of discipline. We think this is usually a mistake.
Both the nutrition and discipline should be kept in mind and carried harmoniously through to
a successful finish. It will be necessary during such troublous times to conserve both the
physical and nervous strength of the child; it should not be allowed to run about and over-play,
as such high strung children often do. It should be given a reasonable amount of physical exercise,
and two or three times a day should have short periods of complete isolation in the nursery,
where it may quietly play with its blocks and toys, sing and croon or talk as the case may
be, but should be left entirely alone.

Wise efforts should be put forth to keep the feeding up to the proper number of calories, and
to see, if the child does not gain during this disciplinary struggle, that at least it does
not lose; and I give it as my experience that I have yet to see a case in which both the child's
nutrition and discipline cannot be efficiently maintained at one and the same time, though
it does sometimes require adroit scientific and artistic management. But the game we are playing
is worth the effort--the battle must be fought--and it can be fought with the least suffering
and sorrowing the earlier the conflict is waged to a successful issue.

I am decidedly opposed to allowing these young nervous children to over-play and thus wear
themselves out unduly. This over exhaustion sometimes renders the training of the child much
more difficult, as it is a well-known fact that we are all much more irritable and lacking
in self-control when we are tired, more especially when we are over-tired and fatigued.

Let me emphasize the importance and value of proper periods of isolation--complete rest and
partial physical relaxation. You can take a child who has gotten up wrong in the morning, whose
nerves are running away with him, who is irritable, crying at everything that happens, who
even rejects the food prepared for him, and who, when spoken to and commanded to stop crying,
yells all the louder--I say you can take such a little one back to its crib, place it in the
bed and smilingly walk out of the room. After a transient outburst of crying, within a very
few minutes you can return to find a perfect little angel, winsome and smiling, happy and satisfied,
presenting an entirely different picture from the little culprit so recently incarcerated as
a punishment for his unseemly conduct.

But let me repeat that while such methods of discipline often work like magic on normal children,
they must be repeated again and again in the case of one who is nervous in order to establish
new association groups in the brain and to form new habit grooves in his developing nervous system.

RESPECT FOR AUTHORITY

There are just two things the nervous child must grow up to respect; one is authority and the
other is the rights and privileges of his associates. The nervous child needs early to learn
to reach a conclusion and to render a decision--to render a decision without equivocation--to
move forward in obedience to that decision without quibbling and without question; that is
the thing the nervous man and woman must learn in connection with the later conquest of their
own nerves; and a foundation for such a mastery of one's unruly nerves is best laid early in
life--by teaching the child prompt and unquestioning obedience to parental commands. At the
same time, endeavor so to raise the child that it acquires the faculty of quickly and agreeably
adapting itself to its environment, at the same time cheerfully recognizing the rights of its
fellows.

It is a crime against the nervous child to allow it to hesitate, to debate, or to falter about
any matter that pertains to the execution of parental commands. Let your rule be--speak once,
then spank. Never for a moment countenance anything resembling dilatoriness or procrastination,
let the child grow up to recognize these as its greatest dangers, never to be tolerated for
one moment.

FALSE SYMPATHY

We are aware that many good people in perusing this chapter will think that some of the advice
here given is both cruel and hard hearted; but we can safely venture the opinion that those
who have reared many children, at least if they have had some nervous little ones, will be
able to discern the meaning and significance of most of our suggestions. Sympathy is a beautiful
and human trait and we want nothing in this chapter in any way to interfere with that characteristic
sympathy of a parent for its offspring--the proverbial "as a father pitieth his children"--nevertheless,
there is a great deal of sympathy that is utterly false, that is of the nature of a disastrous
compromise, for the time being making it easy for both parent and child, but making things
unutterably more difficult later on in life when both (or perhaps the child alone) must face
the calamitous consequences of this failure early to inculcate the principles of self-control
and self-mastery on the mind and character of the nervous child.

We so often hear "mother love" eulogized. It is a wonderful and self-denying human trait; but,
as a physician, I have been led to believe that "mother loyalty" is of almost equal or even
greater value. All mothers love their children more or less, but only a few mothers possess
that superb loyalty which is able to rise above human sympathy and maternal love, which qualifies
the mother to stand smilingly by the side of the crib and watch her little one in a fit of
anger--yelling at the top of its voice--and yet never touch the child, allow the little fellow
to come to himself, to wake up to the fact that all his yelling, his emotion, his anger, and
his resentment are absolutely powerless to move his mother. Thus has the mother--by her loyalty
to the little fellow--taught him a new lesson in self-control, and thus has she added one more
strong link in the chain of character which parent and child are forging day by day, and which
finally must determine both the child's temporal and eternal destiny.

SYSTEM AND ORDER

System and order are desirable acquisitions for all children, but they are absolutely indispensable
to the successful rearing of the nervous child, who should be taught to have a place for everything
and everything in its place. When he enters the house his clothes must not be thoughtlessly
thrown about. Every garment must be put in its proper place. These little folks must be taught
a systematic and regular way of doing things.

Nervous children must not be allowed to procrastinate. They must not be allowed to put off
until tomorrow anything which can be done today. They must be taught how to keep the working
decks of life clear--caught right up to the minute. They should be taught proper methods of
analysis--how to go to the bottom of things--how to render a decision, execute it, and then
move forward quickly to the next task of life. When they come home from school with home work
to do it would be best, as a rule, first to do the school work before engaging in play. In
fact, all the methods which are needful for the proper discipline of the ordinary child are
more than doubly needful for the training of the nervous child; while more than fourfold persistence
is needed on the part of parents to make them really effective.

EMOTIONAL RUNAWAYS

Whether the child be two years of age or ten years of age, when the parent discovers that the
nervous system is "losing its head," that the child is embarking on a nervous runaway, or that
it is about to indulge in an emotional sprawl, it is best to interfere suddenly and spectacularly.
Lay a firm hand on him and bring things to a sudden stop. Speak to him calmly and deliberately,
but firmly. Set him on a chair, put him in the bed, or take him to a room and isolate him.

In the case of the older children, tell them a story of the horse which becomes frightened,
loses self-control, and tears off down the highway, wrecking the vehicle and throwing out its
occupants. Explain to them that many of the mistakes of life are made during the times of these
emotional runaways, these passing spells of lost self-control. Tell the little folks that you
have perfect confidence in them if they will only take time to stop and think before they talk
or act. Explain to them that since you saw that they were rapidly approaching a foolish climax
you thought it was your duty to call a halt, to stop them long enough to enable them to collect
their wits and indulge in some sober thinking.

Personally, we have found it to be a good plan not to be too arbitrary with the little folks,
like putting them on a chair and saying, "You must sit there one hour by the clock." They usually
begin to indulge in resentful thoughts and a situation is often produced akin to that of the
stern father who felt compelled to go back and thrash his boy three different times during
his hour on the chair, because of what he was satisfied was going through the boy's mind. No,
that is not usually the best way. Put them on the chair with an indeterminate sentence. I prefer
to carry it out something like this: "Now, son, this will never do; you are running away with
yourself. Stop for a moment and think. Now I am going to ask you to sit down in that chair
there and think this over quietly. I will be in the next room. Whenever you think you have
got control of yourself and have thought this thing out so you can talk with me, you may get
up from the chair and come into the room to me." Sometimes five minutes, sometimes fifteen
minutes, and the little fellow will walk in and talk to you in a very satisfactory manner.
He will give you his viewpoint and you will be able to adjust the matter in a spirit of conference
which will be satisfactory to both parent and child, without doing the least violence to the
responsibility of the one or the individuality of the other.

Very little is to be accomplished, when the child starts to indulge in an emotional runaway,
if the parent contracts the same spirit, begins to talk fast and loud, to gesticulate wildly,
grabs the child, begins to slap and shake it--that is merely an exhibition on the part of the
parent of the very same weakness he is trying to correct in his offspring. I am afraid it is
entirely too true that for every time you shake one demon out of a child in anger, you shake
in seven worse devils. When all other methods fail and you must resort to punishment, do it
with kindness, deliberation, and dignity. Never punish a child in haste and anger.

THE FINAL REWARD

The advice offered in this chapter is not mere theory. It has been successfully used by many
parents in the management of their nervous children, and while all principles of child culture
must be carefully wrought out and made applicable to the particular child in question, nevertheless,
the methods of repeated and firm discipline herein set forth will enable you to take many a
child who has been born into this world almost neurologically bankrupt, and, by this training
and discipline, enable him in adult life to draw such dividends of self-control and self-mastery
as will far exceed the outward results obtained in the case of many children who are born with
sound nervous systems, but who were early spoiled and allowed to grow up without that discipline
which is so essential to later self-control and dignity of character.

CHAPTER XXXI

NERVOUS DISEASES

In this chapter we shall consider a number of the more common diseases which are associated
with the nervous system of the child. Some of these so-called nervous diseases are hereditary
or congenital, while others are the result of infection and environment.

SLEEPLESSNESS--INSOMNIA

There are many conditions which cause sleeplessness or insomnia in a child aside from disturbance
of the mental state or nervous system. For instance, late romping, too hearty and too late
a dinner, lack of outdoor life during the day, illy ventilated sleeping rooms, too much bedding,
too little bedding which causes cold extremities, too much sleep during the day, too much excitement
(movies or receptions), intestinal indigestion which is associated with accumulation of gas,
and constipation--any or all of these are causes of sleeplessness. Some peculiarly nervous
children--those with an hereditary strain of nervousness--are easily upset or disturbed by
any of the conditions above mentioned.

The treatment of insomnia consists, first, in finding the cause and removing it. Children with
a nervous tendency should be let alone as nearly as possible, and just allowed to grow up as
the little lambs and calves grow up. They should be fed, watered, kept clean and dry, and allowed
to live their lives undisturbed and without excitement.

The medicinal remedies on the market for insomnia are all harmful if used too long or in excess,
and we most earnestly urge the mother not to seek drug-store information concerning remedies
for sleeplessness. The neutral bath is beneficial in ninety per cent of these cases. It is
administered as follows: Enough water is allowed to run into the bath tub to cover the child.
The temperature should be 99 to 100 F. It should be taken accurately--and should be maintained.
Bath tub thermometers may be purchased at any drug store. The restless child, after the bowels
have been freely moved, is placed in the water, and, without whispering, talking, or laughing,
he remains there for at least twenty minutes, after which he is carefully lifted out, wrapped
in a sheet and very gently dried off with soothing strokes and placed at once into his night
clothes. As before said, ninety per cent of restless children will go at once to sleep after
such a treatment.

Another method of treating sleeplessness is by the wet-sheet pack. Three single woolen blankets
are placed on the bed and a sheet large enough to wrap the child in is wrung from warm water,
about 100 F. The child is stripped and this sheet is brought in contact with every portion
of his body, quickly followed by bringing the flannel blankets about him and he is allowed
to remain there for twenty minutes--if he does not fall asleep before the lapse of that time.
With witch-hazel or alcohol, the body is sponged off, night clothes are put on and a restful
night usually follows. If fresh air is lacking, open the windows. If there is too much bedding,
remove some of it. Talcum powder the sweaty back and neck and make the child perfectly comfortable.
Give a small drink of water and turn out the light.

NIGHT TERRORS

Night terrors are probably due to some digestive disturbance, with a coexisting highly nervous
temperament. They oftentimes, in older children, follow the reading of thrilling stories or
a visit to an exciting moving-picture show. The child goes to sleep and gets along nicely for
two or three hours and then suddenly jumps up out of bed and rushes to its mother with little
or no explanation for the act. In his dreams the thoughts and the imaginations of his waking
moments are all confounded and alarming.

We recall one little fellow who constantly feared big, black birds coming in the window and
attacking him--he had been reading about Sinbad the Sailor and his experiences with the big
bird. He so feared this big, black bird that he could not go to sleep. For a number of nights
he did not have the courage to tell his parents that it was the fear of the big bird that kept
him from going to sleep, but finally he confided in his mother and told her of his fear. The
mother and father both entered into a conversation with him through an open door which connected
the two rooms, after the lights were out; they laughed and talked about the big bird, they
openly talked of it and allowed their imagination to work with the child's imagination in planning
how he could combat with the bird, should it really come, asking him how big it really was
and what color he thought its eyes were and how big an object he thought its feet could carry.
They all three planned a fairy story they might write which would rival the fairy stories of
the Arabian Nights. In a very short time--possibly a week or ten days--the little fellow felt
quite equal to these imaginary assaults, his fears were quieted and his slumbers were no more
disturbed by visions of the big, black bird.

Everything should be done to relieve the stomach and intestines of laborious work during the
sleeping hours, hence let the evening meal be light and eaten early enough to be out of the
way, as far as digestion is concerned, by bed time.

NERVOUSNESS

During the formative period of the nervous system--the first few years--under no circumstances
should the children be played with late at night, when they are tired and sleepy, or hungry,
for it is at such times that the nervous system is so easily excited and irritated. When the
baby is to be played with, if at all, it should be in the morning or after the mid-day nap.
Rest and peaceful surroundings are of paramount importance to the nervous child, and he should
be left alone to amuse himself several hours each day. It is a deplorable fact that the nervous
child--the very one that should be left alone--is the very child that usually receives the
most attention, the very one who is most petted, indulged, and pacified; all of which only
tends to increase his lack of self-control and to multiply the future sorrows of his well-meaning
but indulgent parents.

HEADACHE

Headache attacks old and young alike, and the young infant that is unable to tell us he has
a headache manifests it by rolling the head from side to side, putting his hand to his head,
or by wrinkling up his brow. Headaches may be occasioned by disorders of the brain and spinal
column, such as meningitis. It nearly always accompanies fever, and is often a result of constipation,
intestinal indigestion, overeating, as well as eating the wrong kind of food.

The treatment of headache in children (aside from removing any known cause) consists of a hot
foot bath, a brief mustard paste to the back of the neck, a light diet--sometimes nothing but
water--and the administration of a laxative.

CONVULSIONS--SPASMS

In the very young, convulsions are easily produced. That which will produce but a headache
in an adult will often produce a convulsion in the child. Aside from diseases of the nervous
system such as epilepsy, etc., convulsions frequently accompany gas on the bowels, intestinal
indigestion, disordered dentition, an acute illness, intestinal parasites (worms), irritation
about the genitals such as the need of circumcision, an adherent clitoris, adenoids and enlarged
tonsils, inflammation of the ears, and poor nutrition of any sort such as rickets.

The convulsion picture is a stiffening of the body--sometimes arching backwards--rolling or
staring of the eye-balls, blueness of the skin, a drooling mouth (often foamy mucus at the
mouth), clinched hands, biting the teeth--if there are teeth--and even biting the tongue. There
is at first a succession of quick, jerking, convulsive movements of the body which in a few
moments grow less and less violent and finally cease. The child begins to cry and then soon
goes off into a deep sleep, while the body seems more heavy and logy than usual. In extreme
cases, the child relaxes but for a moment of time, when he goes off into another convulsion,
sometimes going from one fit into another until death relieves him.

Treatment for convulsions must be instituted at once. Do not wait entirely to undress the child--pull
off his shoes, place him at once into a good warm bath, temperature about 100 to 102 F. An
ice cap should be placed to his head (cracked ice done up in a towel), and while in the bath
or immediately upon taking him out, give a warm soapsuds enema. The bath that the child is
placed in should be always tested with the bared elbow. A half cupful of mustard may be added
to the bath. Just as soon as the child is able to swallow, give a teaspoon of syrup of ipecac.
Enema after enema should be given until the water comes back clear. Undue excitement after
the bath only predisposes to repeated attacks, and while the mother may be very happy that
the child is himself again, under no circumstances should she caress and fondle him. Put the
little one to bed and allow his nervous system to calm down; let him rest quietly and undisturbed.

NERVOUS TWITCHINGS

Habit spasms or "tics" are common in childhood, and are caused by an over irritability of the
nerves supplying certain groups of muscles. It is not at all uncommon to see a child nervously
blink the eyes, twitch the nasal muscles, shrug the shoulders, constantly open and close the
hand, and execute a score of other minor habit-spasms; which, day by day, wear deeper and deeper
paths into his nervous system as a result of their constant repetition. These minor habit-spasms
of childhood are but telltales of an unstable nervous system, of a nervous heredity lacking
poise and balance; and, mind you, if this nervous system is studied, treated, and properly
harnessed with self-understanding and self-control, much may be accomplished; the habit may
be more or less completely eradicated. If left to itself, unchecked, the habit deepens the
"spasm-groove," and the "energy-leaks" grow bigger and bigger until finally, in later, adult
life, all that is necessary to convert such persons into first-class neurasthenics or hysterics
is some bad news, a few worries, or a sudden shock.

By all means study to nip all childhood twitchings in the bud; remembering all the while that
childhood--the formative period for the nervous system of the child--presents the golden opportunity
to prevent and abort the more grave neuroses of later life. There may be a special contraction
of one or more muscles of the eyeball which produces either a "cross-eye," when the contraction
is convergent, or a turning of one eye outward when the contraction is divergent. It is not
possible for the mother to correct this condition. The one important thing for her to do is
to take the child to a skilled ophthalmologist early in his life, that treatment may be instituted
for the correction of the difficulty.

RETENTION OF URINE

Not an unusual condition during childhood is a temporary retention of urine. It may follow
an attack of colic or accompany any acute illness. Increase the water drinking, and, after
seven or eight hours, hot cloths should be applied over the bladder; a large enema (enema bag
should be hung low) should also be given, retaining as much as is possible. These simple measures
usually relieve the condition. If retention follows circumcision, due to swelling of the parts,
the surgeon should be notified.

BED WETTING

Nocturnal enuresis (bed wetting) usually is found to "run in families." It is seldom the case
to find that both the father and the mother escaped bed wetting during childhood when the child
is sorely afflicted.

Early bad habits may be the prime factor in this distressing and humiliating difficulty. A
little child that has been compelled to lie in wet diapers for hours at a time gradually becomes
accustomed to "being wet," and the desire to urinate is not under the keen control of a will
that has been trained by untiring patience to "sit on a chair" at regular intervals throughout
the day. This lack of training in a child who possesses an unstable nervous system, creates
the proper environment for the habit of bed wetting--which often marches steadily on until
puberty. In the treatment of bed wetting give attention to the following:

1. The urine should be thoroughly examined.

2. The size of the bladder should be determined.

3. The last meal of the day should not be after four o'clock in the afternoon.

4. All during the day, in young children, systematic training should be begun--put the child
on the chair every hour, then every hour and a half, then every two hours. Let the work be
done most painstakingly and much will be accomplished toward training the bladder to "hold
its contents" during the night. For a time it will be necessary to set an alarm clock to ring
every three hours during the night, that the bladder may be relieved at regular intervals.

5. No liquids whatever are allowed after four P. M.; even the four o'clock meal should be very
light.

6. In older children the habit is often broken by appealing to the pride--by requesting or
demanding the child to rinse out the bed linen and hang it up to dry himself.

Usually at puberty the trouble ends, and while no amount of whipping will correct the difficulty,
the promise of rewards, an appeal to the pride, correction of dietetic errors, the establishment
of regular times to empty the bladder, the removal of all reflex causes such as adenoids, need
of circumcision, worms, etc.--these combined influences--will bring results in the end, if
they are faithfully and intelligently applied.

MENINGITIS

Cerebro-spinal meningitis is not highly contagious. Children old enough to complain of symptoms
usually first complain of an intense headache with frequent vomiting and very high fever. Great
prostration is seen, the pulse is weak, the respirations are irregular, the child may have
convulsions, or it may have chills and fever, and rigidity of the body may be present. The
position of the child is very characteristic. It does not want to lie on its back but usually
rests on one side, with the spine more or less arched. It is a very serious disease and demands
the early attention of a physician. Some cases are very mild and others are exceedingly grave.
If the physician is secured early, and special remedies administered that are known today,
many of the children may be saved.

INFANTILE PARALYSIS

Infantile paralysis is a serious disease of the spinal cord which comes on very suddenly and
is associated with vomiting, pain in the legs, and a high temperature. After these symptoms
have lasted a day or two the paralysis is discovered. There may be convulsions. The paralysis
is progressive, and the wasting of the muscles increases until by the end of a couple of months
one limb is considerably shorter than the other. Sometimes the baby goes to bed at night in
apparent good health and wakes up in the morning paralyzed.

In this disease the attention of the best physician in your community should be called to the
case at once, for there are being developed in our large research laboratories special vaccines
for this condition as well as for spinal meningitis. But what is done must be done very, very
early, so let there be no delay in calling in medical counsel.

There are other forms of spinal paralysis which, associated with tuberculosis of the spine
and other spinal diseases, result in loss of power to one or more groups of muscles. The only
treatment that can be given in the home is to keep all of the paralytic portions of the body
very warm by external heat, care being taken to avoid burning, and secure medical advice. Often,
later in the course of the disease, by the aid of crutches and braces, the child can be taught
to go to school and to get around the house about his little duties.

The slight facial paralysis which is so often seen in babies that have been delivered with
forceps, usually clears up in a few days or at the latest in a few weeks or months.

SAINT VITUS' DANCE

Saint Virus' dance (chorea) is a peculiar disorder seen in nervous children, and which usually
clears up in a few weeks or months under proper treatment. It is characterized by irregular
jerkings pretty much all over the body, so that the child staggers as he walks, drops his food
at the table, and executes many other noticeably abnormal movements. The child should be taken
out of school at once and removed from association with children who might make sport of him
or otherwise annoy him and thus increase these irregular jerkings. He should at once be put
under the direction of competent medical authority. Simple food, colon hygiene, more or less
complete rest, and freedom from annoying circumstances, will usually bring about a speedy recovery.

CONGENITAL DISORDERS

Water on the Brain is characterized by an enlarged head due to an increased accumulation of
fluid within the cranium. While the face remains small the head greatly increases in size so
that oftentimes it must be braced while the child is compelled to remain in a wheel chair.
The mentality is usually fairly normal, but the enormous weight of the head compels the life-long
occupancy of a wheel chair.

Deaf-Mutism. The child born deaf pays no attention whatever to sounds. An intellectual expression
is seen on his face and by six months he is able to do all that a normal baby can do with the
exception of hearing. The child should early be taken to an ear specialist in the endeavor,
if possible, to correct the defect of hearing. Such little ones who are destined to a life
without sound, should be given every opportunity to learn to read the lips and to secure a
good education--to be taught a vocation where eyesight is of more value than hearing. Special
institutions are in existence today which can take these deaf mutes when small and so teach
them to make audible sounds that they can make themselves understood--at least partially. Lip
reading is a wonderful improvement over the deaf and dumb alphabet, and should be taught early.

Congenital Blindness. Perhaps not until the child is six months old can the observer distinguish
between blindness and idiocy. The blind child of course will not fix his eyes upon any object;
but the general lassitude and the inability to hold up its head, while seen in idiocy, is not
present in blindness.

Feeble Mindedness. A baby that is born with a weak mind is found to be very backward in all
the normal developmental attainments of the growing child. A normal baby holds up its head
at four months and should be able to sit erect at six months. The weak-minded baby will not
do this, and often as late as two years it will not make any attempt to walk or to talk. There
is an unnatural expression--a vacant look--to the face, while there is often much dribbling
at the mouth.

Early Training should be Instituted. It is necessary to call the attention of a physician to
these facts, that the parents may be instructed in regard to the early training which is so
essential in all these weak-minded little folk. In our opinion it is best to remove these children
early to special institutions, where their education can be superintended by those thoroughly
accomplished and accustomed to dealing with this class. There are varying grades of feeble
mindedness--the backward child who requires a longer time to learn things, and the child who
is slow at school and possibly cannot get through more than the fourth or fifth grade--but
as soon as weak mindedness is discovered, it is best to transfer the child to some special
institution.

CHAPTER XXXII

SKIN TROUBLES

One of the earliest skin troubles that the average normal child suffers from is prickly heat--a
tiny, red-pointed rash always accompanied by sweating and usually resulting from over-dressing,
stuffy rooms, and other conditions that make the child too warm. Prickly heat produces more
or less discomfort but usually little or no itching. Ordinarily, a sponge bath followed by
the application of talcum powder is sufficient to give relief in mild cases; but severe or
neglected cases should be treated by means of bran baths, a cupful of bran being tied up in
a gauze bag and suspended in water until the water assumes a milky color. Soda baths, two tablespoons
to a gallon of water, are also very soothing. A baby should never receive any friction with
a towel after such baths, but should be rolled up in a clean linen towel and simply patted dry.

CHAFING

Great care should be exercised in the choice of baby's soaps. Among a number of soaps that
might be mentioned castile soap is, perhaps, as good as any. Frequent sponging is required
to wash off the irritating perspiration; cool clothing, plenty of talcum powder, a dose of
calcined magnesia, and a regulated diet are necessary to clear up the trouble.

Chafed skin, particularly between the buttocks or in other folds and creases, should be kept
free from soap. Either the starch or bran bath may be tried, while olive oil should be frequently
and lightly rubbed over the chafed part. A bit of sterile cotton placed between the folds to
prevent friction is often all that is necessary to correct the difficulty.

Dandruff or milk crust which is often seen on young babies' scalps has been described in detail
elsewhere. It should early receive the vaseline rub at night which will often loosen up the
hardened crusts. It may be gently removed in the morning with soap and water unless the case
has gone on to great severity. In such neglected cases the mother should not undertake to correct
the difficulty alone. Taken early, when the scalp is covered with tiny flakes known as milk
crust, it can be quickly relieved.

VULVOVAGINITIS

Vulvovaginitis is a very contagious disease, and before the days of hospital asepsis, which
is so perfectly maintained today in our large institutions, this disease used to go right through
a children's ward because of carelessness in the handling of soiled diapers, etc. The sign
of this disease is a yellow-white vaginal discharge, while the surrounding skin covering the
inside of the thighs and buttocks may be very much reddened. The baby should be taken at once
to the physician at the first appearance of these symptoms. Only rigid isolation can possibly
prevent other children from getting it--essentials are separate towels, wash towels, soap (in
the case of the older children), and, in the case of the baby, separate diapers and rigid scrubbing
of the attendant's hands--in this way only can this infection be held in check. The infected
child should sleep by herself, and utmost care must be exercised in preventing her fingers
from first touching the itching vulva and then placing them to the eyes or to the mother's
eyes. A vulva pad must be worn as long as the disease lasts. The physician will give you the
proper medicines to be used in these cases, and if no physician is within reach, you are perfectly
safe in dropping into the spread apart vulva a few drops of twenty-per-cent argyrol and then
applying the vulva pad. After each treatment the hands of the mother or nurse must be most
rigidly cleansed.

ECZEMA

Eczema is a very troublesome disease, particularly in infants; there are so many forms of it
that there is neither time nor space in this volume to describe them individually. This disease
may be produced in children by either internal or external causes--from friction on the skin,
from coarse, rough woolen clothes, or from starched garments, or from lace or starched bonnet
strings which rub into the folds of the skin. Irritating soap, the contact of soiled diapers,
cheap toilet powders, and discharges from the nose and ears may also be responsible for the
disease. The particular internal causes are over-feeding, digestive disturbances, the too early
use of starches which create fermentation in the intestinal tract. In the most frequent form
of eczema the skin becomes red and then there appear tiny vesicles (water blisters) which soon
rupture and "weep." This fluid which oozes from these tiny, ruptured vesicles, in connection
with the perspiration and exfoliation of old skin, forms heavy crusts upon the face which are
both unsightly and annoying.

Another form of eczema is simply a very badly chafed condition accompanied by intense itching,
and commonly known as "dry eczema." A very disagreeable form is the pustular variety. One poor
little sufferer that was once brought to us had so many pustules on his head that one could
not put a ten cent piece on his scalp without touching a pustule. The treatment of these cases,
in order to be effective and leave the child's head in normal condition, must be administered
with the utmost patience every day for weeks. A doctor's help is always required in combating
this sort of skin trouble. If the cause is external, then the clothes should be changed. All
irritation should be removed--the clothing must not be allowed to scratch the skin. The child
must not scratch himself. If necessary, little splints may be placed on the inside of his arms
to prevent his bending the elbows if the eczema is on the face, while the little sleeves may
be pinned to the side of the dress to resist the movement of the arms.

ECZEMA TREATMENT

The diet should be most carefully looked into. The nursing mother will earnestly look into
every article of food she herself is eating, and carefully avoid all foods that produce fermentation
or decomposition. The mother's urine should be examined and its acidity noted; if it is above
normal she should take some alkalines such as ordinary baking soda or calcined magnesia. If
it is a bottle-fed baby, any form of flour should be removed from the food and the quantity
of the milk reduced. All this, of course, is done under the direction of the physician. Repeated
doses of castor oil may be given.

The name of the medicinal agents that have been used in the treatment of eczema, is legion.
Perhaps one of the most widely used is the early varnishing of the affected skin with ichthyol
(one part ichthyol, one part distilled water), which is swabbed on after the skin has been
cleansed with olive oil. Allow this to almost dry, and then sprinkle on talcum powder which
smooths over the dry varnish of ichthyol. This is worn every night and during the day, in bad
cases, even when the eczema is on the face. It is renewed each day, and is preceded by the
olive-oil bath. No water or soap is ever used in eczema. Fortunately, the Eskimo has taught
us that the skin really can be cleansed with oil as well as with water. In the appendix will
be found two prescriptions, number one and number two, that have proved very beneficial in
some of the most severe forms of eczema.

HIVES AND FRECKLES

Hives, a crop of little raised red papules closely resembling lesions caused by the sting of
a mosquito, may make their appearance upon the skin of the child, remain a few hours, and then
disappear. Hives are usually due to digestive disturbances and may be caused by such foods
as strawberries, nuts, pastries, pineapple, certain sea foods, mushrooms, etc. A good cathartic,
the taking of alkalines, such as baking soda or calcined magnesia, with a bran or starch bath,
or possibly a soda bath, will usually correct the difficulty. The same treatment may be used
in nettle rash or prickly heat.

Freckles seem to run in families. Broad-brimmed hats or sunbonnets may be worn, but under no
circumstance should a little girl be bidden to remain in the house and shun the beautiful,
sunshiny outdoors just because she freckles easily. Do not apply any lotions to the freckled
face without medical advice, for great harm may be done the tender skin of the child.

RINGWORM

Often upon the scalps of young children may be seen circles--rather, patches--which are slightly
rough to the touch, and which cause the hair to fall out and the spots to remain bald. They
are known as ringworms of the scalp. The affection may likewise appear on the body or the face,
presenting a ring of reddened skin with a scaly border. Ringworm on the scalp is hard to treat
and medical help should be secured, for, in spite of all that can be done, the disease often
runs its course, leaving round bald spots over the head. Ringworm of the face, taken early,
is helped by carefully painting with tincture of iodine. The mother should constantly bear
in mind that ringworm is a "catching" disease, so that all handkerchiefs, towels, and clothes
are to be kept separate. The disease known as mange which so often attacks dogs, is nothing
more than ringworm, and children often contract the disease from dogs. Ringworm, whether it
be on children or dogs, may be greatly helped by the use of tincture of iodine and other appropriate
remedies.

BOILS

The much poulticing of boils has done an untold amount of mischief. Many children and adults
are in their graves today because of improper treatment of boils. Blood poisoning which so
often follows the careless poulticing, as well as the uncleanly opening of boils, can all be
avoided. Before touching a boil, the surrounding skin should be thoroughly washed with sterile
cotton and laundry soap and then disinfected with alcohol. Then, with a scalpel or a surgeon's
knife which has been either boiled for twenty minutes or allowed to remain in pure carbolic
acid two minutes and then in alcohol two minutes, it should be thoroughly opened down to the
core so that the pus may come out. It is very much better for the trained hands of a physician
to do this than for any member of the family to undertake such an operation--where the danger
of blood poisoning is always present. The only treatment of skin eruptions containing pus which
is justifiable for the home folks to undertake is to simply paint them with iodine. Under no
circumstance should poultices be used.

FEVER BLISTERS

It is not at all uncommon for small children to develop a group of fever blisters on the lips
when suffering with any disease, or experiencing a high fever. Even a simple cold or a spell
of indigestion may be accompanied by fever blisters. They appear not only on the lips but also
on the edges of the nose and may even be seen on the chin.

Early in their first appearance they may be treated with spirits of camphor or plain alcohol,
which sometimes tends to abort them; but they usually run their course, and when they are fully
developed they may be treated with zinc oxide, simple borated vaseline, or ichthyol.

WARTS

Very often children's hands are disfigured by warts. They appear suddenly, develop rapidly,
and many times disappear just about as suddenly as they appeared. Every child suffering from
warts usually passes through the stage of charms and lingoes which are popularly used to remove
these disagreeable growths. We hardly see any efficacy in "bean-ie, bean-ie take this wart
away," or any particular virtue in stealing mother's dishcloth, cutting it up into as many
pieces as there are warts on the hand and rubbing each wart with a separate piece of the cloth;
but you will find people in every town or village who will assure you that their warts were
driven away by one of these charms or lingoes. Warts are either better left alone or removed
by a physician with the high-frequency spark or some other reliable method.

BIRTHMARKS

A red or purplish patch on the skin is the result, as mentioned in an earlier chapter, of an
embryological accident in which one or more embryonic cells slipped out of place in the early
days of skin formation. These accidental markings may occur on the face, the scalp, or on any
other portion of the body, and they should be let alone, unless they show a tendency to grow,
when it may prove best to give them proper surgical attention.

A mole is also a birthmark, and if found upon the neck or shoulders where it is likely to disfigure,
it may be removed by the high-frequency spark, or by surgery, in the same way as warts. Never
tamper with moles. Leave them alone or turn them over to the surgeon.

ERYSIPELAS

Erysipelas is a much-dreaded disease which is the result of infection with the blood-poisoning
germ--streptococcus. It usually occurs about a wound, and is due to infection by this microbe.
If it follows circumcision, it is due, of course, to infection, and may be very serious, even
causing death. It attacks persons of any age and is oftenest seen on the face. In appearance,
the skin is a bright and shiny red, with a definite line of demarcation slightly raised at
the edges because of the swollen tissues underneath. On pressure, the redness disappears but
reappears immediately upon relieving the pressure. The inflammation, pain, and fever often
continues a number of days, during which the child should be isolated from all other members
of the family. The bowels should be freely opened, and the diet should be liquid and soft;
while local treatment is cared for by the physician who should always be called. Should erysipelas
develop on a very young baby it is very important that he should be removed at once from the
mother. As stated before, the disease is produced by the blood-poisoning germ which is very
much to be avoided in any and all stages of obstetrics. One attack in no way renders the patients
immune. They may have repeated attacks of erysipelas. The treatments should be started early
and kept up most rigidly.

SCABIES AND LICE

In thickly settled districts among the poor and uneducated, where filth and untidiness reign,
the "itch" is a very prominent disease. It is caused by the itch mite, a parasite which burrows
underneath the skin leaving behind its eggs in little irregularly shaped, bluish tinted ridges.
Such a profound itching is set up by this burrowing and depositing of eggs that the child cannot
resist scratching, and all taken together produces the typical itch-rash. The common site for
this rash is on the sides and between the fingers and toes; on arm pits and buttocks of the
child, as well as at the waistline. The treatment is usually beyond home remedies. A physician
should have charge of the case who will conduct a line of treatment which, if diligently followed,
will rid the body of this scourge within a week or ten days.

Along with the itch are often found parasites of the head, or lice (pediculi). It is not at
all infrequent to find them in the heads of uncared for children; but if a much-cared-for child
is brought in contact with an infected head he will probably "catch" the infection. A most
intense and disagreeable itching is set up at once. The treatment consists in getting the head
clean by the use of a very fine comb, thus endeavoring to remove the adult parasites as well
as the eggs or "nits." However, great care should be taken to avoid injuring the scalp. Perhaps
the simplest and most effective treatment known is the kerosene bath which should be applied
at night, the hair being done up in a bandage until morning, when the kerosene is washed off
with soap and water and then the hair given a vigorous vinegar shampoo in order to destroy
the "nits." Tincture of larkspur, or an ointment made from the seeds, may also be used. It
is applied several days in succession and then washed out.

CHAPTER XXXIII

DEFORMITIES AND CHRONIC DISORDERS

Reference has already been made to certain accidents of embryology during the very early days
or weeks of the formative period of the embryo. Common illustrations of such deforming developmental
accidents are harelip, cleft palate, and club foot.

HARELIP AND CLEFT PALATE

In the case of a partial or complete failure of the two sides of the face to come together
in the median line, a deformity results which is known as harelip--a partial or complete cleft
of the upper lip. It may be a single or a double cleft, exposing the teeth, or the cleft may
even extend up into the nose. This deformity may seriously interfere with nursing, making it
necessary to resort to feeding with a medicine dropper and later a spoon. The success of the
operation for the relief of harelip, which should usually be performed during the early months
of life, is often very remarkable.

Should this failure to unite be in the deeper structures of the head, then cleft palate is
the result. This, too, may be partial or complete: partial as seen in a cleft of the soft palate
only; and complete, when the hard palate also is involved. In such an instance it is the floor
of the nose that is defective; hence the nose and mouth are one cavity.

A specially devised apparatus which assists the child in nursing may be found on the market,
for nursing is well-nigh impossible without the closure of the roof of the mouth. The operation
for cleft palate is usually successful when performed at the proper time and by competent hands.

In tongue-tie the weblike membrane underneath is attached too far forward, so that the child
is quite unable to protrude his tongue, and this condition greatly interferes with sucking.
The operation for the relief of this condition is slight, and should be performed as soon as
the defect is discovered.

DEFORMED HANDS AND FEET

Occasionally there is a webbing of one or more fingers of the hand, and there are sometimes
seen too many fingers or a double thumb. It is needless to allow such a deformity to continue;
the operation for relief is often remarkably successful and should be performed very early.

Clubfoot results when short tendons or contracted tendons pull the toes inward or outward with
raising of the heel. Treatment must be instituted early; braces or splints are applied; and
untiring efforts are put forth in massage and other lines to prevent a lifelong handicap of
clubfoot.

An inward rotating of the legs presents the deformity of pigeon-toe. The normal foot naturally
inclines toward "pointing in," and such a condition should not be discouraged. Many flat feet
(broken arch) are due to shoe lasts which compel the toes to slant "out," and the bunions which
so often follow such mistreatment may be exceedingly painful.

By all means place shoes on the pigeon-toed child that possess straight lasts with flexible
arches, and which admit of the exercise of many muscles of the foot which otherwise remain
inactive.

As the child grows older the toenails thicken, and often in their trimming they are cut so
closely at the corners that sometimes a condition results known as ingrowing nails. Such are
very painful and must receive special attention. First of all, the nail is cut squarely, and
after scraping it thin the corner is lifted and cotton so placed under it that the nail's downward
and inward growth is stopped.

SPINAL CURVATURE

Curvature of the spine is more common than is usually thought. The most frequent variety of
it is the lateral curvature. One shoulder is lower than the other, and the hips are therefore
uneven. Rickets, during infancy, is the most common cause of spinal curvature.

Improper sitting at school--sitting on the edge of the seat--or carrying heavy loads are often
contributing factors to the production of lateral curvatures. Only the muscles and ligaments
enter into this deformity, hence the treatment should be started early and should consist of:

1. Stretching exercises.

2. Hanging from the rounds of a ladder securely fastened to the wall.

3. Certain applications of hot fomentations to the spinal muscles for their relaxation.

4. Firm cushion placed under one or other of the hips to encourage the re-establishment of
muscular poise.

5. Special supervision of the case.

POTT'S DISEASE

Pott's disease, or tuberculosis of the bone, often results in an angular spinal deformity.
This curvature, unlike the lateral curvature, is a sequela of an actual disease of the bones.
It is always very serious and demands early treatment from skilled hands. Early in the disease
there is a peculiar stiff, tottering gait. The little child holds the spine rigidly, and in
picking up objects from the floor bends the knees instead of the spine. If the trouble is in
the upper spine, the shoulders are held high and the head is stiffly poised, it is never rotated;
in looking about the entire body turns.

Medical aid should be secured early. The X ray not only locates the difficulty but also determines
the extent of the process. If the spine be put to perfect rest, outdoor life begun, a diet
rich in fats established, the results are often wonderfully successful.

Another tubercular condition is seen in the much dreaded hip-joint disease which parents should
always be on the lookout for. The earliest symptoms are crying out in the night suddenly, unnatural
standing on one leg (to relieve the strain on the diseased hip) and so-called "growing pains."
Call in a physician very early and institute proper treatment. A posterior curvature of the
spine is often associated with a bad case of rickets. It is of temporary duration, and usually
clears up when the symptoms of rickets have been eradicated. It involves only the back muscles--not
the vertebral bones.

The young mother is often very much concerned over the misshapen head of the child as a result
of a prolonged labor; and it does seem quite miraculous to see a head, more nearly resembling
an egg than anything else, become beautifully round and shapely by the end of two or three days.

Protruding ears may be encouraged to lie more flatly by the wearing of a specialized bonnet
at night. When the babies are too young to turn themselves they should be turned first to one
side and then the other, while care should always be exercised in properly straightening out
a curled under ear or an overlapping ear.

RHEUMATISM

While we so often regard rheumatism an adult disease, nevertheless, children do suffer its
aches and pains as well as the fever which so often attends the inflammatory type. The so-called
"growing pains" are often of rheumatic origin.

Diseased tonsils not only are often--very often--the avenue of entry of infectious microorganisms
that cause one type of rheumatism, but many forms of valvular heart disease are also directly
traceable to these same diseased tonsils. The treatment consists in giving proper attention
to the tonsils, even removal if necessary--and if the child is old enough. All other possible
causes should be located and removed; the child should have absolute rest in bed with brisk
cathartics and a liquid diet (no meat broths). The diet should consist more of alkalinizing
foods as shown in the special table in the appendix. Medicinal alkalines are often given when
the urine shows a very high acid reaction.

SCURVY

Scurvy, seen in children who subsist on "prepared foods," is manifested by tender legs and
swollen gums which have a tendency to bleed easily. Pallor, loss of appetite, and insomnia
accompany the condition. The treatment of scurvy is change of diet from "patent foods" to fresh
cow's milk, with the addition of orange juice, daily. In older children the food must be very
nutritious; out of door life, salt glows, friction baths (see appendix), and the taking of
large amounts of fats are all essential to the cure.

ADENITIS--ENLARGED GLANDS

Enlarged glands, or what our grandmothers used to call "kernels" in the throat are often the
result of inflammation in the mouth or throat, and occur in connection with many of the childhood
diseases, notably diphtheria, scarlet fever, and scarlatina.

Glands appearing in the back of the neck may be occasioned by pediculli (lice), ring worm,
or eczema, while those seen in the neck just back and below the ears may come from mastoiditis
(inflammation of the middle ear) or adenoids.

Glands felt under the arm enlarge because of trouble or infection in the breast, hand, or arm;
while glands in the groin are usually due to some infection of the feet, legs, or abdomen.

These glands usually disappear when the general health and well-being of the child is improved by:

  1.  Outdoor life.
  2.  Morning dry-friction rub to the skin.
  3.  Good liberal diet, including plenty of fats.
  4.  No feeding between meals.
  5.  The salt glow and general tonic treatment (see appendix).
  6.  The oil rub at night.

RICKETS

Rickets (a disease of the bones) often follows in the wake of faulty feeding and unhygienic
surroundings. The bones lack a proper amount of lime salts and other elements. Development
in general, especially that of the bones, is greatly interfered with.

Bowlegs, prominent square brow, enlarged perspiring head, weakness, and often tenderness of
the flesh, are notable signs of the disease. The treatment varies little from that of scurvy,
and will be provided in detail by the attending physician.

MALARIA

Children often suffer from malarial parasites. Sudden rise of fever on regular days (sometimes
daily, every two days or every three days) should demand a careful medical examination including
the examination of the blood where the offending organism is seen in the red blood cells. We
recently saw a little girl who happened to have an earache and was about to be operated on
for ear trouble, when examination of the blood revealed the fact that she was suffering from
malaria.

TUBERCULOSIS

In the routine examination of adult patients, the X ray observations of the lungs often reveal
deposits of lime salts which tell the story of a successful fight against tuberculosis (Fig.
16). And while it may seem surprising, we believe beyond a doubt that most of us have had some
varying degree of tuberculosis while young--the unrecognized battle has been fought--and these
small monuments of lime salts alone remain to tell the interesting story.

The pity of it is that whole armies of little folks fall in this struggle against disease,
for it is one of the common and fatal diseases of childhood. Fresh-air schools, playgrounds,
and free school lunches are saving hundreds of children from the ravages of this disease each year.

Tuberculosis is strictly a house disease, hence the little tubercular patient must seek outdoor
life. All avoidable exposure to the disease must be denounced, and public sentiment must continue
to be aroused to the hygienic betterment of the tenement districts and basement homes. The
sanitary drinking cup and the bubble fountain must be encouraged, as must also the proper ventilation
of all places where crowds assemble, be it the schoolroom, the theater, or the church.

SYPHILIS

While tuberculosis is known as the "great white plague," syphilis and gonorrhea constitute
the "great black plague," which seen in the little folks is pitiable indeed, leading us to
realize that surely "the children's teeth have been set on edge" because of the careless eating
of sour grapes by the parents. Syphilitic parents who have not been properly treated, should
think many times before they take upon themselves the awful responsibility of bringing into
the world a tainted child. Proper mercurial treatment should be instituted at once not only
for the child but also in the case of both parents.

CHAPTER XXXIV

ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES

In this chapter we wish to instruct the mother or the caretaker in doing the one thing needful
for every one of the more common household accidents and emergencies while waiting for the doctor.

In every household there should be found an accident and emergency "kit" of necessary paraphernalia
for the quick application of the one necessary medicine, dressing, etc. This "kit" should contain
baking soda for burns, bandages and sterile gauze for cuts or tears, together with adhesive
plaster, needle and thread, etc.

INSECT BITES AND STINGS

Far greater harm is often done the skin by the subsequent scratching of the insect bite with
dirty finger nails than by the bite itself; and so it is very important that we remember to
allay quickly the intense itching by the application of ammonia water or camphor. Almost instantly
the itching is stopped, and the added "scratching" irritation to the already injured skin is
thus avoided.

By the aid of a magnifying glass, and often by the naked eye, we may detect the stinger which
has been left behind by the greedy guest, and which should be removed by a pair of tweezers.
Ice-water compresses will stop the swelling and even an old-fashioned mud dressing, which was
used and appreciated by our great grandmothers, is a thing not to be despised.

If the much admired shrubbery be removed one hundred feet away from the porch, mosquitoes would
trouble the household less. It has been demonstrated in many localities that clearing away
the near-by clumps of shrubbery permits the family to sit on unscreened porches unharmed. Mosquitoes
multiply rapidly in stagnant pools of water, but if oil is poured over these stagnant waters
the increase of mosquitoes is abated, and their total extinction is not unheard of in swampy
districts receiving such care.

Whenever baby is out of doors where mosquitoes, flies, or other insects are to be found, he
should be properly protected from such pests by mosquito netting stretched over a frame eighteen
inches above his face, for we can think of nothing more uncomfortable than a mosquito netting
dragging over a sweaty baby's face. The fact that mosquitoes, flies, roaches, and other insects
are carriers of tuberculosis, infantile paralysis, typhoid fever, cholera, yellow fever and
malaria, as well as a host of minor ailments, should make us the more anxious for either their
extermination or the protection of our children from their greedy bites and stings.

DOG BITES AND SNAKE BITES

Dogs, cats, rats, or mice bite at any time of the year, and provision should always be made
for ample protection against such accidents.

Such a wound should always be squeezed or sucked until it has bled freely, and then be cauterized
by a red-hot iron or touched with an applicator that has been dipped in sulphuric acid or nitric
acid. A subsequent dressing of Balsam Peru is healing. The dog should be watched, and if it
shows signs of hydrophobia the bitten child should be promptly taken to the nearest Pasteur
Institute for treatment.

In the case of snake bites the same sucking and cauterizing treatment is indicated, with the
additional tying of a handkerchief or cord a few inches above the wound to stay the progress
of the blood and to keep the poison out of the general circulation. A solution of twenty-per-cent
permanganate of potash should be used to wash the wound.

The popular administration of large draughts of whiskey is of no benefit, for the secondary
depressant effect of alcohol increases the body's poison burden, and those who survive do so
in spite of the whiskey, and not because of it.

SWALLOWING FOREIGN BODIES

Small articles such as buttons, safety pins, thimbles, coins, etc., are often swallowed by
little folks, and if they lodge in the throat and the child struggles for his breath the treatment
is as follows: grasp him by the heels and turn him upside down while a helper briskly slaps
him on the back. The foreign body generally flies across the room. If it is lodged high up
in the throat it may often be dislodged by the thumb and finger. If it cannot be reached and
it will not go down, lose no time in seeking an X-ray laboratory where its exact location may
quickly be discovered and proper measures instituted for its removal.

A troublesome fish bone is easily dislodged by swallowing a half-chewed piece of bread which
carries it down to the stomach. Cathartics and purgatives are not to be given; in due time
the object will appear in the stool. In all instances it is well to locate its exact position
by the X ray--that there may be assurance that it will do no harm.

It is surprising what large objects can be swallowed. One old gentleman swallowed his false
teeth, and a six months old baby swallowed, or at least had lodged in its throat, a silver dollar.

All detachable parts should be removed from toys that are given to babies, such as the whistle
from rubber animals, the button eyes of wool kittens and dogs, and other such removable parts.

FOREIGN BODIES IN THE EYE

To begin with, do not get "panicky," but carefully, painstakingly, and patiently do the following:

1. Rub the well eye until the tears flow plentifully in both eyes.

2. Blow the nose on the injured eye side, closing the other side. This often encourages the
tears to wash the foreign speck down through the tear duct, into the nose and out into the
handkerchief (in case the child is old enough to follow such instruction). If the foreign body
be sharp, as a piece of steel or flint is likely to be, it may be driven right into the eyeball.
Seek a physician who will drop medicine into the eye to deaden the pain and then if it cannot
be gently rubbed off the eyeball, a magnet will promptly remove it.

An eye bath of warm boracic acid is always comforting and never does harm, so that may be given
while waiting for the doctor to come, if the object seems to be beyond the reach of family help.

If an alkaline, such as lime, be blown into the eye it is very painful, but much relief may
be obtained by gently pouring into the eye, by means of a medicine dropper or eye cup, warm
water to which has been added a little vinegar or lemon juice. Likewise, acid in the eye produces
much pain. In this instance, an eye bath of a weak soda solution is indicated.

FOREIGN BODIES IN EAR AND NOSE

Insects that have crawled into the ear may be suffocated by dropping sweet oil or castor oil
into the ear, which, after twenty minutes, should be washed out by gentle syringing with warm
water from a fountain syringe, hung one foot above the child's head.

Peas, beans, shoe buttons, or beads are sometimes put into the ear and nose by adventurous
or experimenting children.

The shoe button or bead will not swell as does the pea or the bean, and may often be safely
washed out. If it is causing no pain and will not drop out in case of the ear, or will not
be easily blown out in case of the nose, see your physician at once. He has in his possession
just the necessary instruments for its immediate removal.

Peas and beans swell, and consequently cause greater discomfort the longer they are in; do
not poke at any foreign body lodged either in the nose or the ear, for the ear drum may thus
be injured, while in the former case it may be pushed into one of the accessory sinuses.

EARACHE

One of the most comforting and highly effectual forms of heat for an aching ear is a four-candle-power
carbon electric light on an extension cord that permits the light to come in close contact
with the ear. A shade is made from a piece of stiff letter paper that fits the socket snugly
and flares out to a three inch opening, which should extend below the point of the bulb one
inch. This shade holds all the heat and light and directs it into the aching ear.

In every well-ordered household there will be found a three-per-cent solution of carbolic acid
and glycerine of which one drop should be put into the aching ear, and then the external heat,
mentioned above, should be applied. A bag of warm salt, a hot water bag, or a warm plate will
provide external heat if an electric light is not available. Do not put laudanum or other remedies
into the ear, other than are herein suggested, without your physician's knowledge.

Earache is always serious, and since it is usually indicative of trouble which, if left untreated,
may cause deafness, it demands thorough treatment from skilled hands.

Running ears invariably need medical attention and should never be neglected.

NOSEBLEED

If the nose bleeds whenever it is cleansed, more than likely there is an ulcer on the septum
which will continue to bleed if left untreated. The physician should heal the ulcer, and the
child should be taught always to vaseline the nostril before cleansing it.

In case of persistent nosebleed, put the child to bed with the head elevated. Pressure should
be put on the blood vessels going to the nose by placing two fingers firmly on the outer angles
of the nose on the upper lip, while a helper may put firm pressure at the root of the nose
at the inner angle of each eye. An ice bag may be placed at the back of the neck, and another
piece of ice held on the forehead at the root of the nose. If these measures do not stop the
flow of blood a few drops of adrenalin may be put into the nose and repeated in five minutes
if necessary. As the bleeding begins to stop, as well as during the bleeding, all blowing of
the nose is forbidden as it will only cause the bleeding to start afresh. It sometimes helps
to hold a piece of ice in the hands.

CUTS AND TEARS

A cut with smooth edges, if deep, should be allowed to bleed freely, should be washed in boracic
acid solution, and its edges held together by a stitch which is usually put in by a physician;
but if treatment is to be given at home, the hands of the nurse must be thoroughly washed and
the thread and needle boiled for twenty minutes. If the physician has been sent for, make firm
pressure over the wound by bandaging tightly with a dressing of sterile gauze dipped in boracic
acid solution.

In case of a slight cut, make it bleed freely, then wash in boracic-acid solution and apply
sterile gauze held in place by a binder. If no odor or pain follows, let alone for two or three
days, when a new dressing is applied.

A physician should be called in case of ragged wounds or tears, as such usually leave bad scars.
Cleanse carefully, leaving no dirt in the wound, cause it to bleed, if possible, and apply
a sterile gauze compress wet in boracic-acid solution, bandaged on as directed above. Zinc
ointment may be applied to surfaces that have been skinned. All dressings on dirty wounds should
be changed daily.

Blood poisoning may readily follow a wound, hence the utmost cleanliness should prevail. The
hands of the attendant, the dressings, the surrounding skin, must all be clean. The bowels
should be kept open, and under-feeding rather than over-feeding is indicated.

If a needle be needed to open a sore or boil, always disinfect the part and surrounding area
by painting with tincture of iodine, and heat the needle to red heat through a flame before
it touches the sore.

In case of cuts or wounds of the eyeball apply a compress of sterile gauze wet in boracic acid,
held on by a bandage, and go immediately to a good eye specialist.

PUNCTURED WOUNDS AND SLIVERS

Wounds made by pins, needles, fishhooks, tacks, and splinters are always very painful and great
care must be exercised to force bleeding freely, which helps to wash out infection, as more
than likely microbes entered with the instrument or sliver when the wound was made.

Fishhooks are exceedingly troublesome, as they often occasion the enlarging of the wound to
get them out, especially if they have gone in beyond the barb.

Slivers are easily broken off, so great care is needed in their removal. A pair of tweezers
is convenient for seizing the protruding portion, while all side movements are avoided lest
it break off in the flesh, in which case it may be gotten out with a needle that has been sterilized
in a flame.

All puncture wounds should be dressed with the wet, sterile compress, covered over with wax
paper and bandaged loosely; this encourages cleanliness and favors healing.

BRUISES

If left untreated, bruises swell, become highly discolored, and in the process of healing pass
through the dark blue, green, and yellow stages. The treatment is as follows: Apply hot and
cold alternately--the heat should be as hot as can be borne and left on very hot for three
minutes, then ice water compresses should be applied for one minute, then hot again--these
changes should continue for an hour, and if carried out immediately after the injury all discolorations
and most of the swelling may be avoided. Witch-hazel compresses are comforting. If discoloration
has taken place, the application of hot compresses will often hasten its disappearance.

FRACTURES AND DISLOCATIONS

While there is very little a member of the family or a non-medical friend can do in case of
a fracture, and while it is unwise to offer suggestions relative to the setting of bones, yet
it is highly important that both the family and friends know how properly to support a broken
leg while carrying a disabled person into the house or to near-by medical aid.

For instance, in the case of a fractured leg below the knee, if a couple of flat boards three
inches wide be tied about the leg with two pocket handkerchiefs, the ends of the fractured
bone will not rub against each other and the pain will be much less in carrying. In this way
all danger of causing the broken bones to protrude and thus "compounding" the fracture is also
avoided. And also, if there is no near-by ambulance, a good emergency stretcher may be improvised
out of two or three buttoned vests with two poles, rakes, or brooms run through the armholes--one
vest under the shoulders and one under the hips and still another under the fracture. An injured
person may in this way be carried for miles quite comfortably.

Two people may fashion a seat out of their four hands on which the disabled child may sit with
his arms about the necks of his two friends. If the fractured end of the bone penetrates the
flesh it is then known as a compound fracture and the utmost cleanliness must prevail--as in
dressing other wounds. An X ray laboratory should always be sought, where convenient, to ascertain
if the ends of the bones are in good position.

In dislocations, the bone has slipped out of place at the joint. Medical aid should be called
to replace the bone, while hot applications may be used in the meantime.

SPRAINS

All sprains (a twist or straining of a joint) should promptly be put into a very hot bath and
held there for thirty minutes. If this is impossible, then a rubber tube or a handkerchief
is tied snugly between the sprain and the trunk of the body. Almost instantly the pain, which
is often intense and severe, is very much lessened. The hot-water bath is very hot, and the
joint should be very red on taking it out. Immediately following the bath the injured joint
is wrapped in a very cold wet compress, which is next completely covered by silk, gutta-percha,
mackintosh, or many thicknesses of newspaper--anything that will hold all the heat in--as the
cold compress is quickly heated up. Lastly, a bandage of heavy flannel completely covers the
whole--compress, impervious covering, etc.

The joint is now elevated for three hours, when it is again immersed in a very hot bath and
then again the cold compress is applied. This is continued every three hours, except during
sleep, for two days, after which it may be done morning and evening. Massage is now administered
every three hours, first four inches below the injury then four inches above it, while in a
day or so the joint itself may be gently rubbed with well-oiled hands. By the end of one week
the patient begins to use the injured member.

In the case of a sprained ankle a properly applied adhesive strap bandage will give no end
of relief and support. Various liniments may be applied, but usually the good obtained is from
the thorough rubbing which always accompanies their use according to directions.

Sprains treated as above directed will often liberate the child in one-third the usual time
generally allotted for its healing.

FROST BITES AND CHILBLAINS

Keep the child who has frozen some part of his body in a cool room, and rub the frost-bitten
part with snow or ice water, or wrap it up in cold water compresses.

The return to heat must be slow indeed, else much pain may be experienced; blisters followed
by discoloration, and even mortification, may set in. You may be surprised some morning on
awakening to find your child's hand twice its normal size and very red, because it was out
from under the cover a good share of the night exposed to Jack Frost. Do not bring it to heat
quickly but immerse it in cold water, gradually and slowly raising the temperature of the bath
until it is warm and comfortable.

The intense itching and burning of a chilblain may often be relieved by painting with iodine
or triple chloride of iron (Monsel's solution). Soap liniment has also been suggested, as well
as alternate applications of hot and cold water. Chilblains are troublesome, painful, and their
yearly recurrence is often very annoying.

SWALLOWING POISONS

Poisons of an acid nature, such as hydrochloric, sulphuric, nitric, or oxalic acids, are neutralized
by alkalines, such as magnesia, chalk, soda, and soap, followed by soothing drinks or sweet oil.

Remember that carbolic acid is not an acid, and is not antidoted with alkalines. The swallowing
of carbolic acid should be quickly followed by diluted alcohol, and if this drug is not ready
at hand many of the numerous alcoholic patent medicines will do just as well. Epsom salts should
be given in abundance.

Poisons of an alkaline nature, such as lye, washing soda, ammonia, etc., are antidoted with
vinegar or lemon juice, followed by soothing drinks or sweet oil.

A complete table of poisons and their antidotes will be found in the appendix.

Poison ivy, as soon as detected, should be treated as follows: Thoroughly scrub the affected
part with tincture of green soap and hot water, which often prevents the trouble developing.
Clean pieces of gauze may be wrung out of lime water and placed over the inflamed and much
swollen surface, keeping them very wet. At night an ointment of zinc oxide may be applied over
a painting of "black wash" (to be obtained at drug stores). Poison (trifoliolate, or three-leaved)
ivy resembles Virginia Creeper, and all nurses and caretakers should be able to recognize it.

Another treatment for poison ivy which is said to be very efficient is as follows: Moisten
a bit of cotton with a ten-percent solution of carbolic acid and apply to the affected area--then
immediately (about one-half minute) wipe off this carbolic acid with another piece of cotton
saturated with alcohol.

Matches, roach powders, fly poisons, washing fluids, lye, paris green, antiseptic tablets,
and pieces of green paper, should all be kept out of the child's reach; and, in case of accidental
swallowing of any of them, the physician should be sent for at once, and with the message "Come!"
should be given the name of the poison swallowed--if it is known.

After the antidote is given, soothing drinks are usually administered, such as raw white of
egg, milk, flaxseed tea, slippery elm, etc.

Complete rest in bed is always essential, and external heat is necessary for the body chills
easily as the child grows weak.

Toothache may be temporarily relieved by applying an ice bag below the jaw, thus diminishing
the flow of blood to the tooth, and a hot-water bottle to the cheek, which causes the skin
vessels to fill with blood, thus relieving the tension in the vessels of the tooth.

If there is a cavity, a small piece of cotton moistened with oil of cloves and packed well
into it may give much relief.

Children and adults should make a bi-annual pilgrimage to the dentist, who seeks out beginning
cavities, early treatment of which will prevent these dreadful aches and later ill health.

BURNS

Burns and scalds are not at all uncommon with children, whose eagerness to explore and desire
to investigate often leads them into trouble.

1. The simple reddening of the skin--slight burns and sunburn--simply needs protecting oil,
or equal parts of oil and lime water, and is to be covered with sterile gauze.

2. The burns which destroy the outer layer of the skin, producing a blister, are treated much
as a wound would be treated. The blister, if larger than a half dollar, should be opened near
the edge with a needle which has been passed through a flame. The serum should be pressed out
and the parts protected by a piece of gutta-percha that has been disinfected with some antiseptic
solution; this covering keeps the dressings from sticking, thus avoiding the destruction of
the new-forming tissues.

3. When the tissues are injured in the more severe burns, the surrounding flesh is carefully
disinfected with boracic-acid solution, and the same dressing applied as described for the
"blister burns." Balsam Peru is a healing balm for burns of this classification.

If a child's clothes catch on fire he is instantly to be thrown on the floor and any heavy
woolen fabric, such as a curtain, table spread, blanket, or rug, is to be thrown over him (beginning
at the neck) and the flames thus smothered. The clothing is now cut off, and if more than one-third
of the body is burned the child should be taken to the hospital for constant care; and if more
than one-half of the body is injured recovery is doubtful. Great care should be taken in keeping
the unburned portion of the body warm, as there is a great tendency for the child to become
very cold as he weakens from both the nervous shock and from the absorption of toxins.

Acid chemical burns are treated with baking soda, except in the case of carbolic acid (misnamed),
which is treated with alcohol; alkaline chemical burns are dressed in vinegar or lemon juice
compresses.

Methods for restoring the drowned should be understood by every man, woman, and youth. These
methods are more fully taken up in works devoted to emergencies and will not be discussed in
detail at this time.

FAINTING

Consciousness is quickly restored to the fainting child by lowering the head--laying him flat
on the floor--while an assistant raises the legs perpendicularly. Cold dashes of water may
be slapped on the chest with a towel, while the face is bathed or sprinkled with cold water.
Consciousness is usually quickly restored by the above suggestions, in connection with plenty
of fresh air.

A sudden blow on the head occasionally results in a severe condition known as concussion of
the brain. There is a partial or complete loss of consciousness lasting from a few moments
to an hour or two. Pallor of the skin and a sense of bewilderment accompany concussion of the
brain.

Rest, quiet, and darkness should prevail until the physician arrives and makes an examination.
External heat to the extremities may be applied, but no stimulants are to be administered until
so ordered by the physician.

It is wise to seek medical advice in the case of odd or unusual behavior after a fall on the head.

CHAPTER XXXV

DIET AND NUTRITION

Most interesting is the study of the food as it passes through the processes of digestion,
absorption, assimilation, and oxidation--all definite and important parts of the great cycle
through which everything we eat passes on its way from the table to the tissues. Elimination
is the last step in nutrition, and is the process by which the body rids itself of the broken
down cells and other poisonous and useless wastes. These various phases of bodily nutrition
may be expressed in a single term--metabolism.

What we eat and how much we eat must be carefully planned, for our body temple is really made
of what we eat. If you were erecting a beautiful mansion you would not think of allowing cheap,
trashy, and inferior building materials to enter into the construction of your home. Neither
should you permit unfit and inferior materials to become a part of the daily dietary of your
little boy or girl, thus to become a part of their bodily structure.

ASSIMILATION OF FOOD

Following the process of digestion in the stomach and intestine, the nutritive food elements
are absorbed through the wall of the bowel by the wonderfully adapted little villus, and distributed
by various routes to the uttermost parts of the body. The sugars (all starches are changed
into sugar) are carried in the portal blood stream to the liver, where they are actually stored
away in the form of glycogen which, in a most intelligent manner, is dealt out to the body
from hour to hour as it is needed for fuel. If all the sugar, after a hearty meal, were poured
into the circulation at once, the blood stream would be overwhelmed and the kidneys would be
forced to excrete it in the urine. This unnecessary waste is avoided by the liver's storing
sugar after each meal and dealing it out to the body as required.

Likewise, the proteins also pass through the liver on their way to the body. Just what action
the liver exerts upon proteins is not wholly known at the present writing. The digested fats
are absorbed at once by the lacteals, the beginning of the intestinal lymphatic system, by
which they are carried to the large veins at the root of the neck and there emptied into the
blood stream. We have now traced our various food elements through the processes of digestion
and absorption in the alimentary tract, some going through the liver, and others through the
lymphatic system, until they circulate in the blood stream itself.

It is from these food substances, circulating in the blood stream, that the various cells of
the body must assimilate into themselves such portions as they require for purposes of heat
and energy and for the repair of their cell substance. This specialized work of cell assimilation
converts the dissolved watery food in the blood into solid tissues, exactly reversing the process
of digestion.

With a most profound intelligence, each of these body cells and tissues, bone and nerve fiber,
muscle and organ, selects from the blood stream just its supply or portion of the food elements
requisite to its upbuilding and maintenance. The mysteries of assimilation are effected by
means of chemical substances called "enzymes," similar to those found in the digestive organs,
but acting in an entirely different manner, in that they build up solids out of liquids instead
of converting solids into liquids.

ELIMINATION OF BODY WASTES

Metabolism consists of a twofold rôle--an upbuilding and a tearing down process. After the
food is all digested, absorbed, and assimilated, having become a part of the bodily organ,
bone, muscle, and nerve fiber, then begins the work of tearing it down--of liberating its heat
and energy--to be followed by its elimination from the body through the sweat glands, uriniferous
tubules of the kidneys, etc. The carbohydrates (starches and sugars), together with the fats,
are completely burned up in the body and are then eliminated in the form of water (thrown off
through the sweat) and carbonic acid gas given up by the lungs.

The proteins, or nitrogenous foods, are not so completely burned up in the body. The ashes
which result from their combustion are not simple substances like the water and CO{2} of the
carbohydrates. This protein ash is represented by a number of complicated substances, some
of which are solid (protein clinkers), which accumulate in the body and help to bring about
many diseases, such as gout, headache, fatigue, biliousness, etc.

These protein ashes and clinkers are further acted upon--split up and sifted--by the liver,
and are finally eliminated by the kidneys in the form of urea, uric acid, etc. The body being
unable to store up protein, is often greatly embarrassed when one eats more of this substance
than is daily required to replenish the waste of the body, for it must all be immediately split
up in the system, and the over-abundant and irritating ashes must be carried off by the eliminating
organs. Now, the overeating of sugars, starches, or fats, is not such a serious matter, as
they may be stored in the liver and subsequently used; and even if they are eaten in excess
of what the liver can care for they accumulate as fat or add extra fuel to the fires of the
body, their ashes being carried off in the form of such harmless substances as water and carbon
dioxide (CO{2}); but the overeating of protein substances is always a strain on the body and
should be avoided.

ELEMENTS OF NUTRITION

There are seven distinct elements entering into the composition of human foods--protein, starch,
sugar, fat, salts, cellulose, and water, not to mention enzymes, vitamines, and other little-known
chemical principles. These elements are all variously concerned in the nourishment, energizing,
and warming of the body.

PROTEINS

The proteins are the structure builders of the body. While starches, fats, and sugars may be
compared to the coal that feeds the locomotive, the proteins represent the iron and steel that
are used from time to time to repair the engine and replace its worn parts. The essential chemical
difference between starch and protein is that the latter contains nitrogen and a small amount
of sulphur and phosphorus. The most common forms in which protein is used for food are the
glutens of the grains, the legumes, nuts, cheese, the white of egg, and lean meat.

STARCHES

The starches are by far the most abundant of all elements in human food. They enter largely
into the composition of nearly all plants and seeds. Under the influence of the sunlight, the
green-colored plants gather up the CO{2} of the air and, with the water absorbed from the ground,
build up starch. The plant takes all the carbon from which starch is made from the air, but
while the atmosphere contains almost eighty per cent of nitrogen, the plant is unable to use
it; it must secure its nitrogen from the decaying refuse of the soil. Thus the plant utilizes
the waste products found in air and earth in the building of its food substances.

Starch exists in the form of small granules. Since each little starch granule is surrounded
by a woody envelope of cellulose, it becomes necessary to cook all starches thoroughly in order
to burst this cellulose envelope and thus enable the saliva to begin, and other secretions
to continue, the work of digestion.

FRUIT SUGARS

The sugar of fruits represents a form of food requiring practically no digestion; while the
sugar found in beets, the cane plant, and the maple tree, must be acted upon by the digestive
juices of the intestine before their absorption can take place. During the winter, the maple
tree stores its carbohydrates in its roots in the form of starch. With the advent of spring
Mother Nature begins the digestion of this starch--actually turns it into sugar--and in the
form of the sweet sap it finds its way up into the tree trunk to be deposited in the leaves
and bark in the form of cellulose, a process very similar to that performed by digestion in
the human body, where starch by digestion is first turned into sugar, and afterwards deposited
in another form in the liver and muscles.

Dextrine is a form of sugar resulting from thoroughly cooking or partially digesting starch.
There are about twenty-five stages or forms of dextrine between raw starch and digested starch
or fruit sugar. Dextrine is found in the brown-colored portions of well-toasted bread.

FATS

Fat is a combination of glycerine and certain fatty acids. As a food, it is derived from both
the animal and the vegetable kingdom. Animal fat consists of lard, suet, fat meat, etc., while
fat of animal origin is represented by cream, butter, and the yolks of eggs. The vegetable
fats are found in nuts, especially the pecan, cocoanut, Brazil, and pine nuts; also in the
grains, particularly oats and corn. The peanut also contains a considerable amount of fat.
Of the fruits, the banana and strawberry contain a trace of fat, while the olive is the only
fruit rich in fat.

As a food, fat is used in three forms. The emulsified form is represented by cream, olive oil,
and nuts. When the tiny globules of fat, which are each surrounded by a little film of casein,
are crushed--united into a solid mass--we have a free fat. This form is represented by butter
and other animal fats. Another form is fried fat--fat which has been chemically changed by
heat with the development of certain irritating acids.

MINERAL SALTS

The mineral elements comprise but a small part of human food as regards weight, but they are
extremely important to the health of the child as well as the adult. As found in the food,
they are not in the form of mineral salts, like common table salt. The salts of food are living
salts, organic or organized salts, such as are found in the growing plant. These salts are
of great value to the various fluids of the body, and also as stimulants to nerve action, but
more particularly in the work of building up the bones.

Salts are found largely in the cereals. A small amount is also found in vegetables, particularly
the potato, as well as in most fruits.

CELLULOSE

Cellulose represents the great bulk of all vegetables and fruits. It is digested by most animals,
but in man it is digested only to the extent of about thirty per cent. The presence of a large
amount of cellulose in the food enables us often to satisfy the appetite without injury from
overeating. It serves to give bulk to the food, and thereby possibly acts as a preventive to
constipation.

WATER

Water fills an important place in the nutrition of the body. The food changes in connection
with digestion, assimilation, and elimination, can take place only in the presence of water.
Water constitutes from fifteen to ninety-five per cent of the various foods. The watery juices
of vegetables and fruits consist largely of pure, distilled water, in which fruit sugar is
dissolved, with added flavoring substances. Water is absolutely essential to the performance
of every vital function connected with human metabolism.

ANIMAL HEAT

The source of heat in the animal body was the subject of much superstitious speculation on
the part of ancient scientists. It is now known that animal heat is derived from the food we
eat by means of a peculiar process of vital oxidation--effected in the presence of oxygen--by
the action of water and enzymes upon the food elements absorbed by the living cell. This process
of oxidation liberates the heat and energy stored by the sun in the food, and thus the body
is kept warm by this constant combustion of the digested foodstuffs. The starches and sugars,
together with the fats, represent food elements which serve as the body's fuel. By this means
we are able to maintain a constant body temperature of almost one hundred degrees.

The average human body produces enough heat every hour to raise two and one-half pounds of
water from the freezing point to the boiling point. This is equivalent to boiling about seven
gallons of ice-water every twenty-four hours. Differently expressed, the body gives off each
hour the same amount of heat as a foot and a half of two-inch steam coil. This is the same
amount of heat which would be produced by burning about two-thirds of a pound of coal.

FUEL VALUE OF FOODS

Expressed in terms of English weight, the fuel value of the three different food elements would be:

  1 ounce of carbohydrates      127.5 calories
  1 ounce of proteins           127.5    "
  1 ounce of fat                289.2    "

It will be observed that fat contains more than twice as much heat as the carbohydrates. This
is due to the fact that fat contains more carbon than either starch or sugar. Next to fats,
starches and sugars are the most important fuel elements. Protein is a very extravagant form
of food for fuel purposes. Proteins are the most expensive elements of human food; they are
incompletely burned in the body, and inasmuch as they leave behind distressing and disease-producing
ashes, it is clearly evident that only sufficient amount of proteins should be eaten each day
to supply the demand of the body for repairs. We should depend more largely upon the carbohydrates
and fats for heat and energy.

A large part of our food is required to furnish heat to take the place of that lost by radiation
from the skin, and this is why children require more food than adults--they have a larger skin
surface in proportion to their weight, and therefore lose more heat by radiation, and it is
for this reason that the food for the growing child must be wisely and carefully selected.

DIET FOR CHILD TWO TO THREE YEARS OLD

Breakfast, 7-8 A. M.: Fruit; cooked or toasted cereal served with thin cream; a soft boiled
or coddled egg; bread (two or more days old) and butter; plenty of milk.

Dinner, 12-1: Soups; creamed vegetables--tomato, corn, peas, and celery; any two of potatoes--creamed,
mashed, or baked--carrots, beets, spinach, peas, cornlet, squash, cauliflower, asparagus tips,
string beans; protein dish--the puree of dried beans, peas, or lentils; macaroni or carefully
selected meats; dessert--apples, baked or sauce--or other fruits, junket, custard, milk.

Supper, 5-6 P. M.: Fruit, bread (bran bread if constipated); milk; porridge, with rich milk
or milk toast; sweetened graham crackers.

FOODS ALLOWED CHILDREN OF FOUR YEARS AND OLDER

Protein Dishes: Purees of dried peas; lentils; beans; macaroni; eggs--soft boiled, poached,
scrambled, or omelette; meats--steak, chops, chicken, turkey, broiled fish.

Cereals: All the toasted-flake foods; toasted and not too fresh bread, including both graham
and bran; hominy; corn meal; oatmeal; farina; rice; barley; tapioca; sago, etc.

Soups: Creamed vegetable soups of all kinds and broths.

Vegetables: Potatoes; all the small green vegetables; lettuce; stewed celery; beets; squash;
cauliflower, etc.

Fruits: All, if stewed or baked. Raw fruits--pears, peaches, ripe apples, berries, oranges,
persimmons, grape-pulp without seeds, etc.

Desserts: Custard; jellos; junkets; home-made ice cream; sponge cake; baked fruits with whipped
cream, etc.

FOODS TO BE AVOIDED BY YOUNG CHILDREN

1. Doughy breads, griddle cakes, insides of muffins, hot biscuits, etc.

2. Fried meats, such as sausage, oysters, pork, ham, veal, salt fish, corned beef, dried beef, etc.

3. Foods that are hot when they are cold--such as catsup, horse radish, mustard, highly spiced
pickles, sauces, etc.

4. Rich pastries, puddings, unripe fruit, salted peanuts, and highly concocted dishes.

5. Certain salads, containing coarse but easily swallowed foods, with highly seasoned sauces.

6. Tea, coffee, and all alcoholic beverages.

7. Soft candies, chocolate creams, bon-bons, patties, etc.

Average normal children crave sweets, and since their normal food is about seven per cent sugar
it is not to be wondered at. There are many forms of pure, hard candies which may be taken
by the three-year-old child. They are stick candy, fruit tablets, sunshine candies, and other
varieties which may be sucked.

All soft candies, such as chocolate creams, bon-bons, patties, etc., are to be avoided. Hard
candies, taken along with the desserts at meal time, in no wise injure the normal stomach of
the healthy child.

The other members of the family should set a correct example by sucking the hard candies rather
than chewing them; for if the hard candies are allowed to dissolve slowly in the mouth they
produce a weak solution of sugar, which does not interfere with digestion as do the strong
and concentrated sugar solutions which result from chewing chocolate creams, bon-bons, etc.

Candy, cookies, sandwiches, or bits of cake should never be allowed between the meals.

EATING BETWEEN MEALS

Children who do not eat well at the breakfast table, if given a "piece" at 10 A. M., will not
be ready for the 12 o'clock meal; and then another "piece" at 2 P. M. interferes with the normal
appetite at 6 P. M. Digestion is disturbed, the nervous system irritated, and a "puny child"
is often the result.

Bring the three-or-four-year-old to a well-selected breakfast some time between 7 and 8 A.
M. Then nothing--absolutely nothing--but water must pass the lips between that breakfast hour
and the 12 o'clock meal, which should be a good one. Then the interval until 5 or 6 P. M. is
passed in the same manner. At the evening meal the appetite is again whetted: and a good appetite
always means good gastric juice to digest the meal. And so, good mother, guard carefully the
interval between meals if you would have good digestion and good health for the little folks.
A. C. McClurg & Co.

CHAPTER XXXVI

CARETAKERS AND GOVERNESSES

Because of her versatile adaptability to the management of details, woman, all through the
ages, has willingly and happily sacrificed herself upon the altar of service. It is not in
the province of this chapter to go into the details of the tribal life of the early hordes
and clans that came from the north and from the east to establish civilization in the cities
of Rome and Britain--space forbids. In this chapter we wish to hold up a picture to the mother,
a picture which may speak volumes to her soul; one which perhaps she may ruthlessly throw away--nevertheless,
we propose to exhibit it.

HOMEMAKING VS. HOUSEKEEPING

A newspaper woman in my office recently told me a story of a mother who finished her high-school
education, took some work in a university, and who yielded to the earnest pleas of her lover-classmate
through grammar school, high school and college--and married him. To this happy family there
came a number of beautiful children. The mother willingly, lovingly, cared for them during
their helpless infancy--made their clothes, managed their meals, opened the door for them as
they came home from school, met them with a cheery story, listened to their problems, helped
them with their lessons--but all through it, first, last and all the time, she also managed
the entire home. She dusted the furniture, changed the curtains, looked after the linen, mended
the clothes, and even pressed the trousers of her "rapidly rising" husband that he might go
out into his "club life" and enjoy the evenings with his associates. The duties of the day
so wearied her, and the night vigils with the sick child,--looking after the little coughs,
the uncovered shoulders, getting the drinks of water and performing a dozen other details--that
she was too weary to accompany her husband to the dance, to the theater, to the social gathering
or to ladies' night at the club; and so, in the course of a dozen years, the mother had grown
old, and quite naturally she had grown "home centered." Her world's horizon was the walls of
her home. She was happy and quite contented in her children's smiles, in the cheery "how do
you do" of her husband, in the fact that that gravy was good or that steak was fried to the
king's taste.

She was happy and contented until one day when the awakening blow came. In the attic she and
her thirteen-year-old son, who was just entering high school, were looking through an old chest
when she drew forth some examination reports and some old school cards--holding them up side
by side. One set of the cards bore the father's name and the other set the mother's maiden
name. In great surprise the boy exclaimed, "Why, mother, I never knew you studied algebra and
Latin; why, mother, I never knew you were educated." Her eyes were immediately opened, the
scales fell off, she was awakened to the fact that her own son was coming to regard his mother
as somewhat inferior, in intellectual attainments, to the father--that she was considered in
that home as a mere domestic. True, the steak had been broiled well, the pudding was exquisite,
the children's clothes were always in order, the husband's trousers were always beautifully
pressed, his ties were cleaned as well as a cleaner could clean them; but where did she stand
in her boy's mind and where was she in her husband's mind?

"Do you notice how trim and nice Mrs. Smith always looks? Her clothes are always in the latest
style, and she combs her hair so becomingly." Such remarks as this from the well-meaning husband
cut keenly, and it is well that they do, for often it is only such remarks that wake up our
"home mother."

Dear reader, I want you to ponder this story. I wish to say to the mother who has started out
upon a career in life, who has prepared herself for teaching school, for a business career,
for story writing, for millinery, for lecturing, or has perhaps graduated in a domestic science
course, that she makes the mistake of her life in settling down, just because she has taken
another's name, to be perfectly satisfied with becoming the household domestic, the household
mender, the household cook.

MOTHERS IN THE PROFESSIONS

I have in my acquaintance scores of mothers in the professions, newspaper women, women who
have carved out brilliant careers for themselves, women who have taught school for twenty years
while their children have been growing up, women physicians who have risen in the esteem of
all their professional brothers and sisters, women who have conducted cooking schools, who
have occupied positions of trust in hospitals and in every walk of life, and who have successfully
reared children at the same time.

You will pardon me for being personal when I say that since our own little fellow was six weeks
old his clothes have been washed and mended and his food has been prepared by earnest and honest
women who had not fitted themselves for the career which this boy's mother had chosen. His
mother went to her office, cared for her patients, kept up by the side of her husband in the
battle of life. All the time there was a woman at home just devoted to that little fellow.

A newspaper woman recently told me her story--a story which should impress everyone of my readers
as it did myself, and she, like many other mothers in the professions, leaves her home as the
little fellow goes to school. His hands have been washed, his bowels have moved, his hair has
been combed, his breakfast has been eaten by the side of his mother--she has directed it all.
He goes forth to the schoolroom and she goes forth to her profession. All through the day she
lovingly keeps in mind these children that are growing up. She works the harder, real love
entering into everything she does, because she is not merely earning the bread that goes into
their mouths, but is forming a character not only for herself but, because of her broadened
horizon, is instilling into their little minds the possibilities of their own career, their
own opportunity to enter into the world's work as real world workers.

I contend that the mother in a profession has many blessings that the mother who remains at
home never has. The mother who remains at home has a viewpoint that is often quite likely,
wholly unconsciously, of course, to become small, to become narrow, to become focused upon
small details; on the other hand, the mother whose mind and whose heart are so full of the
affairs of the office, of the newspaper article she has just written, or the lecture she has
just given or is about to give, or the meeting that she is to preside over, is quite likely
to become somewhat irritated sometimes if the little fellow doesn't stand quietly to have his
hair combed, she is quite likely to "feel rushed;" but under all circumstances, dear reader,
whether this mother be a home mother or in a profession, never, never must she allow mental
panic to seize her. Ever must we keep in mind that these little ones are just children--children
that are still in the developmental stage.

WORK OUTSIDE THE HOME

And now for the home mother. I believe it is necessary and of paramount importance that she
get away from her children (if possible) several hours each day; that she provide for them
a caretaker who can relieve the children of her or relieve her of the children, whichever way
you may look at it, for we are inclined to think that the children often tire of the mother
just about as often as the mother tires of the children. I would have the woman who remains
at home, whose husband is able to provide outside help for the heavy work of the house, enter
into some uplifting neighborhood work, social settlement work, church work, wholesome club
work--anything but bridge and whist and gambling games. I would have them bring into the nursery
a woman who is cheery, who is capable of teaching games, of entertaining and amusing these
little folks under their own roof.

The woman who has graduated from high school, who has a diploma to teach, I would have take
a school or, at least, do substitute work. She will be happier--far happier--continuing along
the lines for which she has prepared herself, even if all the money she earns be used to pay
the help. Some women are especially fitted for the important work of mother and homemaker,
and such wives will find for themselves a worthy career in the home and its neighborhood activities.
Each woman must find a field of action suited to her own temperament, education, experience,
talents, and opportunities.

SELECTING A CARETAKER

For a caretaker, the professional or business woman should not select an ignorant servant girl;
that would be a great mistake--a crime--a violation of the law that should govern the training
of these little people who have come to us to be reared and cared for and fitted to occupy
their place among the world's workers. As a rule, one soul does not possess the qualifications
for scrubbing and laundry work and also the firm but gentle ministering qualifications necessary
for a successful caretaker. They do not combine as a rule. It has been my experience, as a
mother with a profession, and that of many others of my acquaintances, that an art student
or a music student makes a splendid caretaker. There are hundreds and hundreds of genteel women,
with winning manners and beautiful dispositions, who may be obtained to sew on the buttons,
wash the faces, and change the clothes of our darlings while we are carrying forward in the
world the great work for which we have fitted ourselves during the long struggles of our teens
and early twenties.

The young woman who is brought in to care for the child should be above the usual "servant"
class. She must eat in our dining-room, she should be welcome in the living-room or sun parlor,
and be treated as a respected member of the family. Her salary is usually not large for she
realizes that she is given something in that home--something that money cannot buy.

THE UP-TO-DATE MOTHER

Now this young woman (the caretaker) wants to hold her position, and so she is very anxious
to carry out in detail the laws and rules that are laid down by the mother. Mother can keep
abreast with the world, mother has time to read periodicals that keep her in touch with the
great, wide, pulsating affairs of life. She is able to meet more women worth while, and with
her husband attend lectures, musicals, theaters, and other places for intellectual culture.

Anyone of my readers need not look four blocks from her home to find a mother who is run down
at the heel, whose dresses are calico, whose hat is five or six years old, whose black silk
dress (the only one she ever had) is worn shiny or threadbare, who works and saves every penny
that she can that her children may look well; and, even when the husband does invite her to
go out with him, he will often be confronted with this remark: "John, I would like to go, but
really my clothes are a little bit shabby." The world is just full of such women, with their
very hearts being eaten out of them for the want of a beautiful gown, a beautiful hat or a
pretty pair of evening shoes, and they might have them every one if they would be willing to
allow the duties of the household to be presided over by a woman that cannot do the things
the mother can do, while she goes out and accrues a number of dollars each week which will
more than provide for the things that her soul desires so that she may go well dressed by the
side of her husband in quest of that very necessary intellectual culture and social diversion.

The wife of a prominent judge, in my office just this week, said to me that she believed that
most of our social and domestic uneasiness was due to the fact that fathers and mothers and
children went out together so seldom. The father goes to his club, the children go to their
little gatherings, and mother usually stays at home; although of late, she is beginning to
realize the value of the women's clubs.

QUALIFICATIONS OF THE GOVERNESS

The caretaker should not be too old. It is a very great blessing if there is an older sister
in the family who can come in and assist with this work, or if there is an aunt. If one is
to be selected from the open market, then we suggest a woman in her late teens or early twenties
whose heart is full of play, whose face is sunny, and who is young enough to appreciate and
like the becomingness of youthful dress. It is needless to say she should be free from tuberculosis
and other diseases. She should be trustworthy enough not to administer soothing syrups because
the children won't sleep, or to give candy when mother has forbidden her, or to teach the children
bad habits of any sort.

It is impossible to exercise too much care in the selection of this substitute mother, and
when you do find one it is often wise not to keep her too long. A year or so is plenty long
enough for any person to be with our children. It is only necessary for anyone to walk out
into the public parks and casually listen to the conversations of many of the "chewing-gum
caretakers" to discover with what carelessness some people select caretakers for their children.
The language they use is not only ungrammatical but oftentimes both slangy and profane. The
flirtations carried on with many of the park policemen and bystanders lead us to feel that
many people arrive at the idea that their little folks "will grow up some way." If the caretaker
is a student, a young woman of culture, and is kept with the family, she will be found to be
more circumspect and dependable. Her gentleman friend, if she has one, should be allowed to
come to the home. She does not have to meet him out in the park any more than a sister would
have to go away from home to meet a friend; and, to my mind, everything centers around the
viewpoint of the mother as she selects this caretaker, for if she is her social equal it puts
her in a different place entirely to the well-meaning but ignorant servant girl to whose care
is often intrusted the lives of the little people.

HINTS FOR THE CARETAKER

There are a number of hints we wish to bring together in this chapter for the mother to suggest
to the caretaker. For instance, here is a group that one author gives us:

BABY IS HAPPY BECAUSE

  He is dry.
  He is healthy.
  His food is right.
  He has sleep enough.
  His meals are on time.
  He is dressed properly.
  He is bathed regularly.
  His habits are regular.
  His bowels move regularly.
  He has fresh air day and night.
  He is not dosed with patent medicines.
  He is not excited by frequent handling.
  He is not annoyed by flies or other insects.

THINGS BAD FOR BABIES

  Candy.
  Pacifiers.
  Thumb-sucking.
  Soothing syrups.
  Patent medicines.
  Waterproof diapers.
  Moving picture shows.
  Sucking on empty bottles.
  Being kissed on the mouth.
  Play of any sort after feeding.
  Sleeping in bed with the mother.
  Whiskey or gin for supposed colic.
  Sneezing or coughing in the face.
  Irregular or too frequent feedings.
  Sleeping on the mother's breast while nursing.
  Spitting on handkerchief to remove dirt from baby's face.
  Allowing a person with a cough or a cold to hold the baby.
  Violent rocking, bouncing, and rollicking play at any time.
  Dirty playthings, dirty nipples, dirty bottles, dirty floors.
  Allowing any person with tuberculosis to take care of the baby.
  Testing the temperature of the baby's milk by taking the
    nipple in the mouth.

THINGS TO REMEMBER

  Keep baby out of dust.
  Don't cover his face.
  Don't rock him to sleep.
  Keep baby away from crowds and sick people.
  Don't neglect a sore throat or a running ear.
  His health, growth, and happiness depend largely upon you.
  Cats and dogs have no place about a baby. They carry disease.
  The baby is not a toy or a plaything, but a great responsibility.
  Don't wipe out baby's mouth. It tends to cause ulcers and thrush.

OVERCOMING BAD HABITS

There are a few bad habits which older children fall into such as lip-sucking or thumb-sucking
or finger-sucking which not only narrow and deform the upper jaw, but likewise deform the hand
itself. They should be stopped at the earliest opportunity by pinning the sleeve to the bedding
or putting mittens on the hand or putting a slight splint on the anterior bend of the elbow.
Some children suck their handkerchiefs, or bite holes in their aprons and neckties.

Children often bite their finger nails, and a habit of this kind fully developed during early
childhood often remains with them throughout life; whenever a nervous spell seizes them they
instantly begin to bite their finger nails. Other people pick their nose when nervous, so during
very early childhood these habits should be discouraged. One mother helped her little son by
beautifully manicuring his nails for him each week. Another child was cured by old-fashioned
spanking. The finger tips may be painted with tincture of aloes, or dipping the tips of the
fingers in strong quinine water will sometimes help. I know of nothing better for the adolescent
child than to teach him how properly to manicure his own nails. Another bad habit that children
often get into is stooping or allowing the shoulders to become rounded. Shoulder braces are
not indicated in these cases. The children should be allowed to enter the gymnasium or the
father should take off his coat and vest and go through gymnasium stunts with the boy. The
mother can do the same for the girl. It is often the case that round-shouldered children are
near sighted. The child really has to stoop to see things. When a child holds his head to one
side constantly on looking at objects, astigmatism, an error of eyesight, is usually indicated.
An eye specialist should be consulted, the eyes examined, and properly fitted eye glasses should
be worn.

Just as early as possible in the life of the little child he should be taught to blow his nose,
to spit out the coughed up mucus from his lungs, to hold out his tongue for inspection and
to allow his throat to be examined. He should be taught to gargle, and to regard the physician
as one of his best friends. Attention to these minor accomplishments will make it very easy
indeed for the physician in case of illness.

CHAPTER XXXVII

THE POWER OF POSITIVE SUGGESTIONS

A child is the most imitative creature in the world. Before he is out of pinafores he tries
to talk and act just like his elders. It is because of this inherent tendency to say and do
those very things which he hears others say and do, that, if faith-thoughts are early and constantly
suggested to the unfolding mind of the child they will assist greatly in evolving a character
of joy, confidence, and courage. On the other hand, if fear-thoughts are continuously sown
in the young mind they will eventually distort the emotions, deform the conceptions, and wholly
demoralize the health and life activities of the growing child. Within the limitations of the
possibilities of hereditary endowment, and in view of this wonderful imitative nature, we are
able to make of a child almost anything we desire; not "an angel," in the ordinary acceptation
of the term, but a child who knows his place and possesses the power of normal self-control.

EARLY FEARS

From two to six years of age, when the imagination is most plastic and vivid, when the child's
imitative instinct is so unconsciously automatic, is the most effective and opportune time
to initiate good habits and lay the foundations for the later development of a strong and noble
character. "Baby's skies are Mamma's eyes" is just as true as it is poetical. While a tired
and worn-out mother, exhausted by a multitude of harrassing household cares, may be pardoned
for her occasional irritability, nevertheless the little one unconsciously partakes of her
spirit. When the mother is happy the child is happy. When Mother is sick and nervous the child
is impatient and irritable.

It is unfortunate that this very time of a child's life, when we can do practically anything
we choose with him, is the very time when so many parents fill the child's mind with the unhealthful
fear-thoughts. "The bogie man'll get you if you don't mind Mamma," or, "I'll get the black
man to cut your ears off," or, "the chimney sweep is around the corner to take bad little boys,"
are familiar threats which are so frequently made to the little folks. These efforts to terrorize
the young child into obedience never fail to distort the mind, warp the affections, and, more
or less permanently, derange the entire nervous system. The arousal of fear-thoughts and fearful
emotions in the mind of the growing child is very often such a psychologic and a physiologic
shock to the child that the results are sometimes not wholly eradicated in an entire lifetime.

Just see how far we carry this unwholesome introduction of fear-thoughts--even to the Almighty.
Thousands of us remember being told as a child that "God don't like naughty boys," or, "God
will send the bad man to get you if you don't be good." Thus, early in life, an unwholesome
fear of the Supreme Being is sown in the mind of the child, and, as time passes, these false
fears grow and come so to possess the mind and control the emotions that in adult life this
early teaching comes to mold the character and shape the religious beliefs of the individual.

To the child who has been reared to dread God, who has come to look upon the Creator as an
ever present "threat," how is it possible to convey the beautiful teaching of His fatherhood?

FEAR OF NOISES

How frequently some unusual noise leads a parent to say: "Keep still! What was that? Did you
hear that noise?" The little folks of the family are startled, their eyes grow large and their
faces pale, while they cling to the frightened mother. Of course, investigation usually shows
that the strange and alarming noise was merely the slamming of a cellar door, the rattling
of a curtain in the wind, some one walking about downstairs, or the action of the new furnace
regulator in the basement. But meantime the harm is done to the children--fear, the worst enemy
of childhood, has been unconsciously planted in the mind by the thoughtless and nervous parent.

FEAR OF DARKNESS

Consider for a moment the thousands of children who are early taught an abnormal fear of the
dark. Even when the child is absolutely free from such a fear, when sent into a dark room some
member of the family will thoughtlessly remark, "Do you think it is quite right to send that
child into that dark room? Suppose something should happen." The child quickly catches the
suggestion that something is supposed to be or happen in the dark, and in his mind is sown
the seed of fear.

When our boy was about two years old he was carried one night to the window by a caretaker,
and as they looked out into the darkness the young woman said, "Boo! dark!" The little fellow
shuddered, drew back and repeated, "Boo! dark! Boo! dark!"

That night, as was our custom after the evening story, we tucked him in his little bed, turned
out the light, and saying, "Sweet dreams, Darling," closed the door. Imagine our surprise to
hear, "Mamma, Mamma, Willie 'fraid of dark, Willie 'fraid of dark," and it was with difficulty
that he was induced to go to sleep in the dark. Immediate inquiry revealed the occasion of
his fears, and the next night we set about to eradicate the fear of darkness from the little
fellow's mind.

For ten successive nights we took his hand, and, leading him into a dark room, said, "Nice
dark, restful dark; we go to sleep in the dark; we're not afraid of the dark, no." Each night,
save one, we were met with, "No, no, naughty dark. Willie 'fraid of dark." Suggestion had at
last routed fear and given birth to faith. We had won! But it had taken ten nights of constant
work to undo one moment's work of a thoughtless girl. Every night since he has gone to sleep
in the dark without a murmur.

THE FOLLY OF MAKING THREATS

Threats only show weakness on the part of the disciplinarian. Most school teachers early learn
the folly of making threats. When I was teaching school I recall that a number of slate pencils
had been dropped on the floor one afternoon. Thoughtlessly I threatened, "Now the next child
that drops a pencil will remain after school and receive punishment!" My fate! The weakest,
most delicate girl in the room was the next to drop her pencil, and she was a pupil with a
perfect record in deportment. The reader can imagine my embarrassment. I had threatened punishment,
and so had to get out of the predicament as best I could. This experience effectually cured
me of making such foolish threats.

Most of us live to regret the threats we make. "Your father will thrash you when he comes home
tonight," or, "You'd better not let your father see you doing that," or, "You wouldn't behave
that way if your father was here," etc., are common threats which we hear directed at headstrong
and willful boys. What is the result? Do such threats cause the love of the child for his father
to increase? They make the child actually afraid of his father.

"I'll 'bust' your brains out," said a four-year-old to his pet lion, because it wouldn't stand
up. Now it should be remembered that these things do not originate in the minds of the boy
and girl. They only repeat the things they hear others say. It betrays both cowardice and ignorance
to undertake to secure obedience by such threats as "I will box your ears if you don't mind," etc.

Obedience that is worth anything at all is only secured by suggestion and love, never by promises
of reward or threats of punishment.

CHILDREN WHO ARE CALLED "COWARDS"

Recently we overheard a little fellow say, "Father says I'm the only coward in the whole family."
Looking him straight in the face we said to him: "You're not a coward. Such a fine boy as you
couldn't possibly be a coward." The boy was greatly amazed, and, as we left him, he was saying
over to himself, "I'm not a coward. She said I'm not a coward," finally adding, "She said I
couldn't be a coward." This one thought, repeated to him several times and turned over and
over in his mind, eventually overthrew the false fears instilled by his father.

A short time ago the daily papers contained the story of the ten-year-old son of a New York
business man who drew his few dollars from the savings bank, boarded a train for Chicago, and,
after three days of amusement and loneliness, his money all gone, was found in a hotel bitterly
weeping. His identity was revealed, the parents were notified at once, and the boy was sent
on the first train back to his home. On the way to the station he sobbed out through his tears,
"Well, my brother can't call me a coward any more, anyway." Who knows but that this everlasting
taunting of the child with the accusation of being a baby or being a coward has much to do
with many such escapades and other daring exploits on the part of the juveniles who are chafed
by such unjust insinuations? Those of us who are acquainted with the vice and crime of a great
city can imagine just what might have happened if this boy had been a little older, if his
heredity had not been so good, if his money hadn't run out, if he had been able to remain in
the big city long enough to make undesirable acquaintances.

Many criminals have confessed behind prison bars that when they were children they were called
cowards. After a while they actually came to believe that they were cowards, and in their efforts
to acquire courage and demonstrate their bravery they were led to desperate and even criminal
acts. They prowled around the dark alleys just to convince themselves that they were not afraid,
that they were not cowards, and there they made the acquaintance of the criminals who led them
into new and dangerous paths. Even if a child enters this world handicapped by heredity, let
us not lessen his chances of success by adverse suggestion.

Faith-thoughts, thoughts of bravery and of courage, may just as easily be instilled into the
mind of the normal child as thoughts of fear and cowardice. A child should never have suggested
to him that he is afraid. He should be constantly assured that he is brave, loyal, and fearless.
The daily repetition of these suggestions will contribute much to the actual acquirement of
the very traits of character that are thus suggested. This does not mean that a child should
not be taught caution and forethought.

THE GIRL WHO WOULD "TURN OUT BAD"

Parents do not begin to realize how fearfully dangerous is this habit of constantly reiterated
negative suggestion. Let me illustrate by an actual incident: A beautiful girl in a near-by
state grew up quietly in the little village until she was eighteen years of age, when suddenly
she decided to run away from home, declaring she was old enough to do as she pleased. She confided
in one of her girl friends that she was going to Chicago, and had made all arrangements to
lose herself in the "redlight" district. All that this girl friend said had not the slightest
influence. As the train bore her away to the city and to ruin, a social worker in Chicago was
wired to meet her at a suburban station. The girl was met, taken from the train and whisked
in a cab to the home of a Christian woman. So possessed was this girl with the idea of throwing
herself away that the captain of police was asked to talk to her; but the combined efforts
of the police captain, a magistrate, and several Christian people could not persuade her to
recall her threat. She declared she would kill herself if her parents were notified. This siege
lasted for ten days. Then she finally broke down, saying: "I simply can't help it. All my life
my mother has told me that I was going to turn out bad. No matter what would happen at home,
if I broke a dish or went out with the young people and remained away ten minutes later than
I was told to, it would always be thrown up to me. 'Oh, some day you'll turn out bad.' I have
heard it until I am sick of it, and something within seems to push me on and on, telling me
I must turn out bad."

Of course the girl was persuaded to believe that these were only fear-thoughts; that she was
a beautiful, virtuous girl, that she simply had received the wrong training, that she couldn't
possibly turn out bad. She was thus saved by the sympathy and advice of understanding friends,
was subsequently married and is today the mother of a splendid boy.

WHAT HEALTHY FAITH-THOUGHT WILL DO

Here is another story which illustrates what healthy faith-thought will do. A young man was
not long ago selected for the highest position within the gift of a large religious organization.
When he was a lad his parents held this thought constantly before his mind: "David, if you
will be a good boy, if you will do what is right, you may some day be President of the General
Assembly." He became a minister of the Gospel, a very successful one, and subsequently married
a young woman who was also much interested in religious work. She continued to encourage him
in this ambition, saying: "David, preach the best sermons you can; make an effort to bring
many souls to Christ, and some day I believe you will be President of the General Assembly."
The man presided over the General Assembly of his denomination, not one term, but term after
term. He kept his eye long fixed on that particular aim, and by faith he won it.

THE POWER OF SUGGESTION

To see how powerful suggestion may be in a child's life take this incident that every parent
knows: The little one trips and tumbles. Mamma says, "Oh, did you fall? Well, never mind; come
here, I'll kiss it. There, now it's well." Immediately the child goes back to his play perfectly
happy. One little fellow was taught that when he fell he should get up at once, rub the bump,
and say, "That didn't hurt." All through his career the bumps and the hardships of life were
met with the same pluck. On the other hand, a thoughtless caretaker will excitedly jump and
catch up the slightly injured child, coddle it, rock it, pet it--and the crying continues indefinitely.
This early training in meeting minor hurts and obstacles lasts throughout the lifetime. Pluck
and grit are lacking. The behavior of the man in the face of difficulties is foreshadowed by
the attitude of the child toward his petty trials and bumps.

Successful child training follows in the path of positive suggestion. Impatient words and careless
threats of punishment can only contribute to the wrong training of the young mind.

When is the best time to suggest to the child? Catch the little fellow when he is happiest,
when he is overjoyed and filled with glee; for it is at such times that the suggestions offered
will meet with the least resistance.

Teach the children through the spirit of play and through the medium of the story. The boy
or girl in the story always can have a clean face, always close the doors quietly, and otherwise
so conduct himself or herself as to constitute a powerful positive suggestion for good. The
story-child always says, "All right, Papa," "All right, Mamma," when corrected.

BEDTIME A GOOD TIME TO SUGGEST

The "going-to-bed time" is the time par excellence for suggestion in early childhood. After
the play time, the study time, and the evening story, when all is quiet, in the peacefulness
of the darkness, while you are seated in a low chair close beside the little bed, with your
hand in his, repeat over and over again the positive suggestions which you desire to take root
in the mind and bear fruit in the character. Again and again tell the little fellow that he
is the noblest and bravest of boys, that he loves truth and hates deceit. No matter what disturbs
him, if it is the lessons at school or a wrong habit, first think out exactly what you desire
him to be or to do, and firmly, but quietly, tell it over and over to him.

As a concrete example: Suppose Henry, at three-and-a-half years of age has to be coaxed or
almost forced to eat. Say to him: "Now, Henry, you are a good little boy. Papa and mamma love
you dearly. If you are going to grow up to be a big man you must not forget to eat; so tomorrow
when you go down to the table you will eat everything mamma or nurse puts before you. It won't
be necessary for papa to feed you at all; you will eat the potatoes, the gravy, the toast,
and the cereal, and drink your milk. You will make mamma very happy, and papa will be proud
of you; and then after dinner we will have a good romp, and you will soon grow up to be big
enough to have a velocipede and a watch." After two or three evenings of this suggestion you
will be surprised to see there is a great difference in his eating.

Take the timid little girl who is unable to recite well at school, who is shy, and has great
difficulty with her lessons. At the going-to-sleep time sit by the side of her bed and tell
her that tomorrow she will have her lessons better, that she will not any more be afraid, that
she will get up and recite without the least fear in her heart. By constantly repeating these
suggestions she will be given confidence, and in most cases it will result in effecting the
deliverance of the child from her bondage to fear. Never tell her that she is shy or that she
cannot do things. Constantly tell her that she is a successful girl with a strong character,
and that she is going to make a very useful and courageous woman. Hold high aims and ideals
before her. Suggestion cannot atone for all the defects of character which may be inherited,
but it can do much to help such unfortunate little ones gracefully bear their burdens.

NEVER ACCUSE CHILDREN OF DISHONESTY

Never tell children that you suspect they are dishonest or untruthful. Be very slow to accuse
and suspect them of falsehood or theft. Tell them over and over again they are the best boys
and girls in the world; that they are going to make the noblest of men and women; that they
love honesty and truth. Even when you discover them in minor faults do not make the mistake
of unduly magnifying and emphasizing the error. As soon as possible direct the thoughts and
attention of the wrongdoer away from his error, and focus his thoughts and attention on the
high goal you expect him to reach. This will not be construed as doing away with proper punishment
for persistent faults after the more ideal methods seem to have failed.

A patient recently called us to see her little girl, and as we made ready to make the examination
the mother said: "Now, Mary, stop your playing and come and be undressed and let the doctor
look at you."

"I don't want to stop playing," murmured Mary.

"But you must come. You know you don't feel well at all, your cheeks are so red. Now swallow
and see if it don't hurt. Now try again. I know you don't feel well." By the time we had begun
our examination Mary began to succumb to her mother's suggestions, and began to feel a trifle
indisposed. She was being made temporarily ill by the unwise and unfortunate suggestions of
the overanxious mother. The examination revealed that there was nothing whatever the matter
with her.

IT IS EASY TO FORM GOOD HABITS

Let us get the truth firmly into our minds as parents that it is just about as easy to form
a good habit as a bad habit, just about as easy to acquire helpful, happy thoughts as those
that are injurious; and we can do it, if we will but see to it that our children early form
correct and proper habits of thinking and acting. While the children are taught proper respect
for authority, let fear be an unknown word to them. Don't let a thought of the fear of insanity,
of haunted houses, of drafts, of this and of that enter into your home. Instead, live in the
glorious sunshine of strong, healthy, faith-thought, and a supreme happiness will come into
your life, and you will give a legacy to your children for which they will "rise up and call
you blessed."

CHIVALROUS SPIRIT

The love of mother and sister can naturally and happily be turned early to a chivalrous attitude
toward all women when it is developed by suggestion and other training. In giving up a chair
or bringing one for a guest, in lifting the hat, in noticing ways to be polite and attentive
to mother, a lifelong conduct may be ensured.

Each day gives us trying and sometimes shocking revelations of the prevalent lack of courtesy,
or even humanity, on the street cars during the "rush" hours. The indifference to the comfort
of women, even the aged, on the part of many men and boys in the matter of giving them seats
or other care, indicates a dangerous social condition.

The mother, instead of exercising selfish concern for her boy, should make it her duty very
early to suggest that he give his seat to a woman or girl, as he would be glad to have someone
do for his mother or sister. Such unselfish service will become a habit of pleasure, and help
the boy become a pure-minded, manly gentleman with that respect for womanhood without which
a nation is doomed.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

PLAY AND RECREATION

There are a number of theories advocated by late authors on the "psychology of play," in which
they connect the free and easy play of the modern child with the more serious and sober pursuits
of our ancestors--our racial parents of prehistoric and primitive times. We quote from Worry
and Nervousness:

     And so we are told that the spectacle of the young infant
     suspending its weight while holding on to some object, and the
     early instincts so commonly shown to climb ladders, trees, or
     anything else available, are but racial mementos of our ancestral
     forest life. The hide and seek games, the desires to convert a
     blanket into a tent, the instinct for "shanties"--which all boys
     universally manifest--we are told that these forms of play are
     but the echo of remote ages when our ancestors sojourned in
     caves, lived in tents, or dwelt in the mountain fastness. In this
     same way the advocates of this theory seek to explain the strange
     and early drawings which the young lad has for wading, swimming,
     fishing, boating, and other forms of aquatic recreation.[C]

In this chapter we purpose to discuss the play of the child, whose career we will divide, for
convenience, into three stages:

  1. The age from three to six--juvenile days.
  2. The age from six to twelve--the "going to school" child.
  3. The age from twelve to twenty--the adolescent youth.

[C] William S. Sadler, Worry and Nervousness, p. 377.

JUVENILE PLAY DAYS

As nearly as is possible the little child should be out of doors the greater part of his waking
hours: To our mind it is nothing short of criminal to keep the little folks in the house when
the weather permits outdoor life.

Of the outdoor games which we have to suggest, perhaps the sand pile stands at the head of
the list. Clean white sand should be placed in an inclosure just low enough for the child to
climb over. Many, many happy hours may be spent in this sand pile, at the same time the little
fellow is in his own yard and the watchful mother knows the drift of the conversations which
take place.

In a previous chapter we called attention to the fact that the little girls' frocks should
be provided with knickerbockers, so that she may run and jump, or sit as comfortable as the
little boy, without a conscious reproof ever ringing in her ears, "Mary, do keep your dress down."

OUTDOOR PLAY

Tree climbing is another source of enjoyment to these little people and they should early be
taught how to climb. Instead of suggesting fear to the child let the mother go into the yard
and talk with her something like this: "Now, Mary, put your foot in that fork, now catch hold
of that upper limb, hold on tight, you will get there yet;" instead of the following conversation,
which all of our readers have heard: "John, do take care or you will fall and break your neck;
be careful, you will fall. There, I knew you'd fall!" etc. Both mothers are trying to accomplish
the same thing--one mother suggests "fore-thought," while the second mother thoughtlessly suggests
"fear-thought."

These little people should be provided with rakes, spades, and hoes, and a portion of the yard
should be given them in which they are at liberty to dig and rake and have a royal good time.
We have yet to see the child who is not interested in flower-bed making, and the mother should
think of the virgin opportunity to instill the story of life into the child's mind as he plants
the seed, and day by day watches its development and growth.

A pen of rabbits may be a good thing, if proper measures are taken to prevent their burrowing
out of the pen, destroying the lawn, causing much sadness of heart to their little keeper,
and no end of annoyance to the neighbors.

Roller skating and hoop rolling, as well as sledding, are all valuable recreations. The snowman,
snowballing, and the sled riding all bring the ruddy glow of health to the cheek, and are wonderful
producers of good appetites and restorers of "tired out nerves."

INDOOR GAMES

There is no end to the number of things that can be done when the weather shuts us in, but
before we take up these games let us never forget that every child thoroughly enjoys going
out in the rain well protected with rubber boots, raincoat, and umbrella.

It is not extravagant to burn plenty of electricity or gas on cloudy days, for the artificial
sunlight helps to cheer the heart. Such indoor games as those which may be had from blocks,
puzzles, cutting out of pictures, darning of cardboard, soldier games, dolls, housekeeping,
etc., are all splendid means of recreation for the little ones. Let the mother or caretaker
join with the little folks in these pleasant games. For the older children, checkers and dominoes
are most excellent indoor games.

THE "GOING TO SCHOOL" CHILD

First of all we must decide upon the bedtime hour, as well as the hour for rising. Between
the ages of six to twelve, the bedtime hour should be eight o'clock, or not later than eight-thirty,
and the rising hour at seven, or seven-thirty in the morning, for children of this age require
eleven to twelve hours sleep.

Again, there must be taken into consideration the home work that the children at school are
asked to do by their teachers. While this home work is not usually taxing, yet the time spent
in doing the work must be taken account of. In our opinion the best time for home work is an
hour and a half to two hours after the little fellow gets home from school. He should be allowed
to relax for one and a half or two hours, to play out of doors whenever the weather permits,
and then with either his mother or his caretaker from one-half to three-quarters of an hour
should be spent on the lesson for the following day. Following this, the dinner hour is enjoyed
with the parents, and after that there should always be provision in the daily duties of the
father and mother for at least a half hour for the evening romp; so that play and recreation
during the school age occupies possibly not more than two or two and one-half hours a day outside
of school hours.

The playgrounds of schools are of inestimable value, and we quite agree with one who said:
"If we can only afford one of the two--the playground or the school--have the playground first
and afterward the school." The small parks and playgrounds of the cities are a great blessing
to the little folks.

COMPANIONS

The companions of the school child are usually his playfellows at school, and we urge the throwing
open of the home during inclement weather to allow these school friends to come in and make
trains out of our chairs and tents out of our couch covers, steamer rugs, afghans, etc.

We do suggest that caution be used in allowing children to play indoors who are suffering from
colds in the head, running noses, running ears, tuberculosis, or other chronic disorders, which
are often highly contagious. Running noses and running ears, as well as tuberculosis, may be
contracted by susceptible children when the play at recreation time takes place indoors; while
such disorders are much less dangerous in connection with outdoor play.

We are well aware of the fact that some playmates may choose the bathroom, requesting that
doors be locked, or wish to play in a bedroom securely away from mother and the caretaker.
Under no circumstances should this be allowed. Let the child early learn that good wholesome
play in the open is better than secretive misdemeanor behind closed doors.

THE "IN THE HOUSE" HOUR

It is a pitiful fact that many mothers apparently are wholly unconcerned as to the whereabouts
of their little folks, even after dusk; this is unwise to say the least, for a boy or girl
under twelve years of age should be found under the parental roof at dusk. The city mother
should impress upon her child that when the street lamps are lighted his first duty is at once
to come into the house. During the winter months this lighting of the street lamps occurs anywhere
from four to six. During the summer months another rule should be laid down, depending upon
the neighborhood, the character of the friends on the street, the surroundings, etc. By all
means let us see that our young people are in the house by dusk.

PARTIES

Every mother who reads these lines has had to meet this question: "Shall I let my little one
begin to go to parties?" and every mother will have to answer that question for herself. We
personally feel that the social life extended by the school, together with the meeting of the
companions at Sunday school, in the park, or on the playground, is quite enough; and we deplore
the fact that many children grow into the idea that much time must be spent at "parties" in
the drawing-room under unnatural surroundings, in dressed-up clothes, eating ice cream and
cake, etc. Outdoor gatherings of children are wholesome and hygienic, but most of these indoor
gatherings of groups of children we consider decidedly unhygienic. One child coming down with
scarlet fever, measles, or whooping cough can infect twenty others at an afternoon party. The
eating of so much ice cream, candy, and cake is deplorable in that it upsets the digestion,
and all this is irritating to the developing nervous system of the child; and not infrequently
brings on a lot of other symptoms, resulting in discomfort and disease. We believe in outdoor
picnics but not in too frequent indoor parties.

PICNICS

Groups of children gathering in the park, on the beach, in the woods, when well chaperoned,
are among the pleasant and profitable pleasures of childhood. It is just such gatherings that
mothers and children should indulge in--and once a week is not too often during the long vacation.
The mothers, too, should enter enthusiastically into the joys of a day's outing, where the
enormous intake of oxygen, the hearty laughter, the races, the games, etc., all create a wonderful
appetite, which can be so delightfully satiated from the well-filled lunch baskets; and while
the children are thus playing together what a wonderful opportunity for the mothers to engage
in an exchange of helpful ideas. Each mother has her own way, which is "the best way" to make
this cake or that salad; or has met this particular difficulty in child training in a carefully
thought out way; a neighborhood women's club can thus be held out in the open, while the children
are having the time of their lives in the frolic of the picnic.

"MOVIES"

The movie is an institution that has come to stay, and today mothers everywhere are perhaps
discussing this particular institution more than any other. The movie affords a wonderful opportunity
to see the sights and scenes of other lands, of feeding the imagination of the child on travel
pictures and nature pictures. It is a most deplorable fact, however, that this wonderful institution
which is fraught with so many opportunities to educate and enlighten the mind of the growing
child has carefully to be censored. Women's clubs have done much to purify the movies for the
school-age child; many theaters are now showing on certain days a special afternoon movie for
the children; and while many of these movies have great possibilities for good, we most earnestly
urge that the school child see the movie that he is to see before dinner, and not have his
mind excited and his nervous system "thrilled" just before going to bed. Someone asked me several
years ago, "Are you going to let your little fellow go to movies?" I instantly answered, "No,
but I shall take him." If the mother or the father sits by the side of a growing child and
carefully, thoughtfully, and, yes, prayerfully, points out the good and explains the evil,
then even the questionable movies will prove the means of bringing father and son and mother
and daughter, into closer companionship.

Under no circumstances should children under twelve years of age be taken to long lectures,
entertainments, or concerts, which will keep them out until eleven.

VACATIONS

Let the vacation be well planned. This is the opportunity "de luxe" for the child to earn a
few pennies to enlarge his bank account. Allow him a truck garden, guinea pigs, chickens, anything
remunerative, which will enable him to become one of the world's workers and one of the world's
savers. Let him start a bank account when he is six, and watch him as he puts the dime in the
bank, instead of taking it to the ice-cream-soda cashier.

Some time during the vacation, if possible, mother and father should accompany the little folks
to the camp, to the beach--somewhere, anywhere--to get back to nature and live like Indians
for a short time. Each member of the family will come back rested, happier, and more ready
for the next year's work.

In the summer time learn to eat on the porch--it is great sport for the children. Many meals
can be served on porches that are so often served in hot, stuffy rooms.

The "home" does not consist in the furniture, the rooms, the bric-a-brac, or the curtains.
The home is the mother and the father and the children and the spirit of good fellowship which
should possess them. Make the companions of the little folks very welcome, letting them learn
the early use and abuse of the different articles of furniture in the house. It is all right
to play tent with the beautiful couch cover; it is all right at certain times to dress up in
father's best clothes and mother's beautiful gown, but while they are thus having a good time
let them learn that all these things are to be used and not abused.

ADOLESCENT DAYS

The homely boy or the homely girl usually grows up free from the flattery and undue attention
which are sure to be heaped upon the good-looking boy and the popular girl. Way back in the
early days of five or six, and all the way up to the ages of twelve to twenty, children should
be taught that it is altogether natural and correct to do things well and to look well; parents
should stop, and cause their acquaintances to stop, "making over" the boy or the girl just
because they have done something well, or have beautiful curls, or because their eyes are a
magnificent brown, etc. If a girl should be especially endowed with a charming complexion,
a wonderful chin, and if she does possess a beautiful nose or neck, let her early realize that
she has been made the custodian of goodly features and that she must give an account for this
particular blessing, and under no circumstances must she become self-conscious about it. Ofttimes
a good frown to an unwise friend is all that is necessary to stop this "lip service" flattery.

The "chewing-gum girl" is just a thoughtless girl, that is all; sit her in front of a mirror
and compel her to chew gum for one-half hour and watch herself do it, and it will often suffice
to cure her. Young ladies should be taught that chewing gum should be done in the bedroom,
but never in the living-room or on the streets. It is not only a disgusting habit, but it often
creates an occasion for criticism as to the quality of one's home training.

ICE-CREAM PARLORS

The mother who cares will not allow her lovely daughters nightly, or even semi-weekly, to frequent
the ice-cream parlors and secluded soda fountains. She had far better arrange group dinners
and group receptions in her own parlor; with ice cream served in her own dishes and eaten with
spoons that she has supervised the washing of.

Young women and young men in their late teens crave companionship, and they should have it;
but let it be under wise chaperonage at home or in public rooms, and not in the solitude of
a lonely bench in the public park, or the seclusion of an out-of-the-way, ice-cream parlor.
This "running the streets" which is so freely indulged in by the adolescent youth in the early
teens need not occur, if wise provision is made for the assembly of small groups in the home.

Some elders think it pleasing and cute for young men and young women--fourteen to sixteen,
or even seventeen--to wrestle and roll around on the floor like two huge kittens; but it is
unwise and indiscreet and should be discouraged.

DANCING

We hesitate to speak of dancing for we realize it is a very popular indoor recreation of today,
but we most earnestly urge that if dancing must be done, it be done under proper chaperonage,
and if young people must meet in public dance halls let them be municipal dance halls, where
motherly matrons are in charge. Many of the social dances which bring the participants into
such close physical contact are to be discouraged and stricken off the list; and while dancing
is a splendid form of exercise--let us add that it is also sometimes a dangerous one.

QUESTIONABLE PLAY

After the boys and girls graduate from grammar school they may come into contact with such
agencies as secret societies--which nine times out of ten are questionable--and while we realize
that there is a contention both for and against these organizations, we may dismiss the subject
here by simply adding that we have known little special good to come out of these societies.

While it may not be any more wrong to hit a ball from the end of a stick--as in billiards--than
it is to hit it from a mallet in croquet; or from a stretched tendon, as in tennis; or from
a bat, as in baseball--we do not feel that we have to argue the point, when we remind the reader
that billiards and pool, especially in the public parlors, do assemble questionable companions,
who use questionable language; while these games are often accompanied by betting, which is
always to be deplored. And so with card playing, we see no greater harm in playing a game of
euchre, than a game of authors, as far as the cards are concerned, but your boy and girl, as
well as mine, as a rule, have cleaner and purer minds at the home game of authors than is probable
in a game of cards in a public place.

In closing this chapter we have to announce a group of wholesome recreations which may be entered
into by our lovely young people--the man and the woman of tomorrow--whom we one and all wish
to keep clean and good and pure; all the while helping them to develop the sense of humor and
the element of play. Such recreations are tennis, golf, croquet, roque, boating, sledding,
skiing, bicycling, motoring, horseback riding, and a host of others too numerous to mention.
Let us not forget that ofttimes pursuits such as garden-making and helping the parent in the
office or in the home, may be made a great source of enjoyment to the adolescent youth, if
they are allowed to earn a small amount of money each week, which they may deposit in the bank.

We close this chapter "Play and Recreation" with the wish that all, old and young, would develop
a greater sense of humor, a greater love for play and recreation, which will increase the health
of both mind and body and prevent many nervous disorders such as neurasthenia.

CHAPTER XXXIX

THE PUNY CHILD

In every neighborhood there is to be found the delicate child, and everywhere anxious mothers
are putting forth every effort to improve the condition of their puny boys and girls. In carefully
looking over the puny child, we see an underweight little creature with pale skin, and as he
comes to the table everybody notes that he refuses more or less food.

DIET AND HYGIENE

As we give the child a closer examination we find that certain lymph glands are enlarged, possibly
adenoids are present in the post-nasal pharnyx, and, in many instances, there are badly diseased
tonsils. Usually the puny child is constipated, hands and feet are cold, and he jumps and starts
at any unusual noise, thus showing a tendency to nervousness. One of the first things necessary
is to take this little one to a good specialist and if necessary have the adenoids and tonsils
removed. This having been done, the diet should be carefully looked into. There should be served
him for breakfast a generous bowl of dextrinized grains with a good portion of diluted cream,
a glass of rich milk, a baked potato, and fruit. For lunch at twelve o'clock he should be given
a glass of malted milk with egg, or eggnog, six or eight dates or three or four figs, a handful
of pecan kernels, and perhaps a lettuce sandwich. For dinner at half past five, another nourishing
meal of baked potatoes, a protein dish of either cheese and macaroni or eggs or meat, a generous
fruit salad, a glass of rich milk, and bread and butter, should be enjoyed.

There is no class of little folks who eat between meals more often than do these delicate children,
for mothers painstakingly endeavor to feed these children all they can possibly take; so one
mother thoughtlessly went about it something like this: the half past seven breakfast having
been only touched--nibbled at--with the ten o'clock hour came this request: "Mother, I am so
hungry, I want something to eat." Eagerly the mother prepared either a meat sandwich or a jelly
sandwich and possibly a glass of milk.

When it was time for the twelve o'clock dinner hour, or lunch hour, again the well-filled plate
was refused, the appetite having been satisfied at ten o'clock. Having taken very little nourishment
at noon, by half past two the plaintive plea again came to the mother ears: "May I have a piece?"
and again the well-meaning mother gave him the desire of his heart. So the day passed, the
dinner making the fifth time food was taken into the stomach, and in all probability there
was eaten a cookie in between. The reader can readily see that the digestion was consequently
very much disturbed, fermentation occurred, decomposition of food took place in the digestive
tract, with its result--constipation.

IMPROVING THE APPETITE

Not a morsel should pass the lips of any child, and particularly our delicate child, between
meals. Let him come to the table at half past seven or eight o'clock, and if he does not want
to eat tell him frankly that that is all he is to receive until twelve--and stick to it. Nothing
more than water or fruit juices should be taken between meals.

It may be necessary to create an appetite for the three meals we have just described, and as
we now take up the outdoor hygiene we would not forget that some simple treatment should be
instituted each day in a well-heated bathroom or bedroom. Roller skating or ice skating, hoop-rolling,
rope-skipping, and Irish mail, or a coaster, all furnish splendid exercise for the delicate
child. Under no circumstances should he be allowed to remain all the time in the house; and
so pleasing recreations must be provided for him out of doors. The sand pile should not be
forgotten, flower-bed making, raking the lawn, a polished coasting board fastened in a slanting
position to an upright which can be mounted by means of a ladder, create splendid outdoor sports
for these children.

THE DAILY PROGRAM

Take the child into a warm bathroom each morning and let him stand in six inches of well-warmed
water. With a rough mitten made out of either mohair, crash, or turkish towel, the entire body
should now be rubbed until it is pink. This procedure is known as a dry-friction rub. Do not
stop until the skin is pink, particularly the arms and legs, for the back and chest usually
get pink quickly. Then with simply a cold dash of water to the feet, dry them well and allow
him to dress. Twenty minutes before the meal hour, let him get out of the house and roller
skate around the square as many times as he can in twenty minutes, or let him race and have
a royal good time in the fresh morning air and then after this forced oxygen intake let him
come in to breakfast.

And now for school, and as we say "school," we regret that there are not more "open-air schools."
Some day the American people, more particularly the American mothers, will awaken to the fact
that we need more schools with simply window space rather than so many closed glass windows.
Some day we will send our children with sweaters, leggings, stockinet caps, mittens, even in
the cool days of spring and fall, to "open-air schools," and in the cool fresh air they will
think better and work faster and make wonderful progress in both studies and appetites.

The particularly delicate child, under treatment, will not spend the whole day in school. In
all probability the forenoon session only will be attended, after which the half-past-twelve
or one-o'clock meal that has been previously described will be given him. Now if the appetite
is variable, arrange a little surprise for him by serving this meal on the porch or in the
living-room by the open grate, or out under the trees. In all probability such a meal will
be taken eagerly, particularly if the mother will read a pretty story. Now the afternoon is
to be spent in doing a number of different things. We would like a pleasant walk, a visit to
the park, hoop-rolling, roller-skating, rope-skipping, ice-skating, outdoor sliding, anything
that will take our little fellow out of doors to increase his oxygen intake until possibly
the half-past-three hour is reached, when he should come into the house and lie down and prepare
for the treatment for that particular day.

TREATMENT SUGGESTIONS

Twice a week he should be given a salt glow (described in the Appendix). Twice a week he should
be given a thorough soap shampoo (also described in the Appendix). After each of these baths
a special rub should be administered to the spine, and as there is so often spinal curvature
in these children, certain stretching movements of the spine are valuable, together with hot
fomentations (see Appendix) over the spinal centers. These are wonderful stimulants to the
delicate child and should precede the salt glow twice a week. Every afternoon a hot-and-cold
foot bath may be given to create a better circulation. The feet are put in hot water from three
to five minutes (as hot as can be borne), and then they are quickly plunged into the coldest
water obtainable for three seconds, then back into the hot water, and vice versa, until three
changes have been made, always finishing the treatment with the cold dip. On the three remaining
days of the week at half past three, the child will simply relax in the hammock or on the porch
couch while the mother aids in the relaxation by a pleasant story. We would suggest that on
Monday the salt glow be administered; Tuesday a rest is taken; Wednesday the soap shampoo is
to be administered; Thursday another rest; Friday a salt glow; Saturday another rest, and Sunday
the shampoo, etc.

Before going to bed at night, with the mother's hands well oiled with either olive or sweet
oil, the circulation is again stimulated by the heavy friction rub.

Constipation is taken care of along the same lines as mentioned elsewhere in this book.

It is surprising to see how often these delicate children are infested by worms, and while
a great deal of dependence cannot be put in that single symptom "grinding the teeth at night,"
or "pallor around the mouth," yet we do believe that many a delicate child continues to suffer
from worms many years. It is a very simple procedure to obtain a specimen of the stools. A
cathartic should be given and after usual free-bowel movement, the second time the child desires
to go to stool this should be saved and taken to the laboratory for a careful search for worm
eggs which are usually in evidence if worms infest the child. The treatment for worms is described
elsewhere in this work.

We have seen scores of young people between the ages of eight and eleven who, before treatment,
were pale, listless, under weight, irritable and cross, after three months of such treatment
as has been outlined gain six to ten pounds and look as ruddy as their healthiest neighborhood
friends. It is perfectly marvelous to notice how a child will put on from six to eight pounds
in a short period, at the same time overcoming his irritableness and fretfulness. I am more
and more inclined to believe that most bad children are sick children--are undernourished children--and
it behooves us American mothers and fathers to give proper attention to this undernourished
child, call a halt, and devote three months to giving him the help that he needs. He did not
ask to come into this world; and it is "up to us" to give this child what he deserves--for
every child in this world has a right to be well born, to be well fed, and to be well reared.

CHAPTER XL

TEACHING TRUTH

We confidently believe that most of the sex immorality seen in young people is more or less
the result of ignorance and curiosity; therefore we most earnestly desire in this chapter to
portray so interestingly the beautiful story of life as seen in the vegetable and animal world,
that our mother-readers will be seized with the great desire wisely to convey to the young
child's mind this sublime and beautiful story. The questions most naturally arising in the
mind of the reader at this time are: When shall we begin to tell this story? How shall we tell
it? Where shall we begin? Where shall we stop? Realizing full well that the subject is usually
handled prematurely and with unpreparedness, we will attempt in this chapter to discuss it
with courage and candor, believing that there is a right way, a right time, and a right place
to impart this information.

A LESSON FROM NATURE

When the little folks are about three or four years of age, when confidence and trust are at
their height, they often come to us begging for a "story;" and this is the golden opportunity
for the parent or caretaker to tell them the story of Mr. and Mrs. Corn, and all their little
babies; or Mr. and Mrs. Morning Glory and their little folks. There are a score of other equally
interesting and instructive botanical stories which are just as beautiful in their sublimity,
and fairy-like in their personality. The little children's eyes grow big with wonder as you
tell the story of a whole township of families by the name of Corn (See Fig. 17), who have
their residences out in the wide country fields.

We will first introduce the child to Mr. Corn, the tassel, waving proudly and majestically
in the breezes, and seeming to say: "I am master of all I survey." The little fellow is filled
with wonderment as he learns how the clouds give up their drops of water to quench his thirst
and how the sun smiles upon him to yellow his beard; and how the wonderful all-important pollen
is developed and ripened.

Often the child eagerly asks, "And where, mamma, is Mrs. Corn?" and to that interested upturned
face we relate the pleasing story of the beautiful silken tresses of Mother Corn. Early in
her life she is a beautiful shade of green, and as she thus gracefully hangs out from the ear
of corn, day by day the smiles of sunshine turn this mother corn to brown, and then to a still
darker shade.

"And where, mamma, are the babies?" the child next inquires; and, as we take the ear of corn,
removing the outer clothing--the husks--we find the underclothing, a much lighter shade of
green, and here now we are in close contact with the babies themselves--the kernels--and to
each little kernel or baby corn we find mamma closely clinging. Here is a beautiful opportunity
to teach mother-love and mother watchfulness, as also the opportunity to draw lessons from
the baby kernels sitting there in even rows, with their faces clean, silently contented--just
doing their duty. The stories that may be told are limitless, and possibly as interesting as
are the myths and fairy-tales, yet all the while as true as truth itself, with no fakery, no
legends--just simple truth.

THE ALL IMPORTANT POLLEN

Now on a second trip into the cornfield, another story may be told of the important work of
the pollen. This "father part" of the plant falls upon the silken tresses of the "mother part,"
by which the pollen is carried down to the sleeping corn-baby seeds--the kernels. And when
the "corn dust" does reach the sleeping seeds a great change begins to take place. This change
is known to the adult as "impregnation;" to the little child it may be presented as "an awakening"
of the sleeping seeds, so that they begin to grow, to develop, to expand and push out, until
we have the full-grown seeds seen in the delicious and juicy roasting ear.

Sometimes, in the case of the larger plants and trees, Father Tree may be miles and miles away
from Mother Tree and so this all important pollen must be carried by the wind or by the bees,
and as it blows against the mother part of the plant-flower she catches it and pushes it downward
to the seed babies. The wind scatters the pollen of the oak tree, the hazlenut, the walnut,
the birch, the willow and many others; for, without the good kind wind or the bees, the pollen
would never find its way to many a mother flower, and the "fertilization" of the seed could
not take place.

THE MORNING GLORY FAMILY

Perhaps the story of life can be told as beautifully from the morning-glory as from any other
flower. Here the beautiful flower cup is the home of Father and Mother Morning-Glory and all
their little babies. (See Fig. 18).

As we carefully take away their little home, the flower cup, we have left a little green cup,
and coming up from the center you will see five little stems, every one of them wearing a hat
of powder or pollen and this--if you please--is Papa Morning-Glory. Look closely and you will
see coming up from the center of these five stems (stamens) one central stalk without a hat,
Mother Morning-Glory, known in botany as the "pistil"; and as you follow down this pistil you
will find an enlarged part at the base, which is known as the cradle-nest--the home of the
seed babies.

Little was known about this wonderful fertilization of the seeds by the pollen two hundred
years ago, and a whole century passed before the secret of the blossom and the bees was discovered;
and even then it was not fully realized how great was the work of the bees in cross-fertilization.
Nor was it understood that the beautiful blossom of the flower, with its sweet nectar, was
an exceedingly important factor in attracting the bees. Another century passed before Darwin
gave to the world the story of the great work performed by the bees in cross-fertilization--in
carrying the pollen from flower to flower, for it is now a well-known fact that all of the
blossoms visited by the bees produce better fruit and better flowers.

