One afternoon, while walking across a meadow, near a village, I saw a dog of the terrier breed
pursuing a partridge, which every now and then turned and made at it with its wings down, then
rolled over, then ran, and again rushed at the dog. I drove the dog away, when I was surprised
to see a number of young partridges running from behind the old bird who had been trying to
protect them from the dog, and guarding their retreat. So you see how brave the most timid
creatures become when in danger, and when their young are near. Instinct tells them that they
have to protect their little ones, and risk everything, even their own lives, for their safety.
We can get beautiful lessons every day from the birds and poor dumb animals, if we only study
them as we ought.

THE KINGFISHERS' HOME.

Very pretty birds were Mr. and Mrs. Kingfisher, with dark, glossy, green wings, spotted with
light blue. Their tails were also light blue, and there was a patch of yellow near their heads.
The little Kingfishers were quite as pretty as their parents, and Mr. and Mrs. Kingfisher were
exceedingly proud of them.

"Only they eat a great deal," said Mr. Kingfisher; "I am getting very tired."

For Mr. Kingfisher had been flying backward and forward all day, and it was surprising to see
the quantity of fish he caught for his family.

When he built his nest he took care that it should be near a stream, and he found one close
by a high cliff that Mrs. Kingfisher said would be just the place; so they scooped out a deep
hole, and there the eggs were laid, and in due time six little Kingfishers burst out of the shells.

RATS CARRYING EGGS UP STAIRS.

Rats are very ingenious little creatures; they have actually been known to convey eggs up a
staircase, from the pantry to their nest! Here is a beautiful picture, by Mr. Harrison Weir,
from the "Children's Friend," showing how they did it.

The rat bears little resemblance to the rats with which we are chiefly acquainted, namely,
the black rat, the albino or white rat, and the brown rat. The other day, as I was walking
by the river-side, I saw a beautiful little creature sitting on a stone in the stream, with
a piece of succulent root between its forepaws, and nibbling its repast in perfect peace with
every living thing. It was timid and innocent in the expression of its countenance. Its color
was of a reddish brown. It was about as large as the common rat of the sewers, but its tail
was much shorter, and covered with hair.

A HERON ATTACKED BY A HAWK.

The Heron when attacked by an eagle or falcon endeavors to escape by rising in the air and
getting above its foe. The wings of the heron strike the air with an equal and regular motion
which raises its body to such an elevation that at a distance nothing is seen except the wings,
which are at last lost sight of in the region of the clouds.

If its enemy gets above it, and upon or near its body, it defends itself vigorously with its
long and powerful beak, and often comes off victorious.

The heron frequents the neighborhood of rivers and lakes. Almost always solitary, it remains
for hours motionless on the same spot. When seeking the fish or frogs on which it chiefly feeds,
the heron wades into the water, folds its long neck partially over its back and forward again,
and with watchful eye waits till a fish comes within reach of its beak, when it darts its head
into the water and secures its slimy, slippery prey.

A HORSE GUARDIAN.

