This conviction, coming, as it did, on the back of a disturbed slumber, in which her dreams
had partaken of the dire nature of a nightmare, increased her fears. She could rest no longer,
and rising and dressing herself, she sat down at the casement, and listened to ascertain if
any of the sounds of the cavalcade could be distinguished. She could satisfy herself of enough
to indicate the route they had taken--away over the hills that separate the vales of Ettrick
and Yarrow, and by the path that has since got the name of the King's Road, leading directly
to the Tower of Tushielaw. But a quick and threatening change in the weather soon attracted
her attention. The booming of the wind seemed to cease, and, shortly after, the clouds, through
the openings of which the moon had been seen labouring during the previous part of the night,
appeared to run rapidly together, so as to conceal the face of the night queen, and to present
a homogenous mass of dark vapour over all the heavens. A flash of vivid lightning now flared
in her eyes, and left her for a moment in suspense whether she had not been blinded by the
bright fluid; then on came the peal of thunder, which reverberating among the mountains like
discharges of artillery, filled her with that peculiar awe which the speaking clouds throw
over the hearts of mortals. The rain came down in torrents, and had scarcely begun to pour,
when the speat-rills of the high lands were heard dashing down like angry spirits to swell
the Henderland Burn and the Megget, and raise the fury of these mountain streams. The sound
of the thunder had awoke the children, who, leaving in terror their beds, came running to their
mother, to seek that protection which could alone allay their fears. Circling round her knees,
they hid their heads among the folds of her clothes, or clambered to her bosom, and twined
their arms round her neck. It was in vain she asked them to return to bed; they conceived themselves
safer on the breast of their mother, though she still sat at the casement, and the lightning
glanced in their eyes, than they could be in their beds, muffled up in the bedclothes, and
listening to the successive peals of thunder. As she sat in this attitude, with the children
cowering into her bosom, like little chickens under the wing of their mother, she observed
that the thunder approached nearer and nearer, as the period between the flash and the peal
diminished gradually to a second; and a sudden flash among the trees, accompanied with a crackling
noise, connected with some destructive operation of the bolt, indicated that mischief had been
done in that quarter of the wood. It was where the elm stood, the subject of Merlin's rhyme;
and this circumstance sent the current of her thoughts in that direction, where there was so
much aliment for her excited fancy. She silently prayed that the tree might be destroyed; and
its towering top, above all others of the wood, held out some hope that her strange wish might
be realized.

The sound of a man's voice--that of Dick of the Muir, as he was styled--the individual who
kept the gate of the Tower--was heard shouting to some one without, in reply to some request
made by the latter. It was now about two in the morning, and Marjory could not conceive what
could be the purpose of the stranger's visit at that dreary hour.

"What want ye wi' my Leddie at this time, man?" said Dick. "My master's frae hame, and my commission
doesna extend to opening the gate to strangers on night visits."

"But I'm nae stranger, Dick," replied the other. "I served the Cockburns before ye was born,
and hae wandered many a weary step, in the midst o' this storm, to speak a word to the ear
o' my Leddie. The time o' my visit is a good sign o' the importance o' my counsel. For God's
sake, open, man! or ye may rue this hour to that o' your deein struggle, when Laird and Leddie
may be in the moil there, ahint the auld chapel, and a' through the laziness o' their warder."

"Raff i' the mire!" cried the warder--saluting him after the custom of the times, when every
man had a distinctive appellation, in the absence of sirnames. "I took ye, man, for ane o'
Tushielaw's scouts."

The creaking of the hinges of the gate was now heard.

"What brings ye frae Peebles, man?" continued the warder, "in sic a night as this, when a witch
wouldna venture on the Skelf Hill, far less owre North Berwick Law."

"It's no to tell ye that Merlin's elm has fa'en," rejoined Ralph; "but three oaks on three
sides o't are lying on the earth, and that stately tree may be a gallows still. You say, Henderland's
frae hame. I'm glad o' the news. It's his leddie I want to see: an' she maun be roused frae
her couch to speak to her auld servitor. Time bides nae man; neither does King James."

Another peal of thunder drowned the conversation of the man: and Marjory, rousing her little
refugees, urged them to return to their beds, that she might be left to hear the intelligence
of this midnight messenger, whose words already, so far as she had heard them, carried tokens
of evil. His reference to the king struck a chord that prior solitude had made sensitive; and
even the remark as to the tree that had escaped the bolt, had in it a peculiar power over her
shattered nerves. Her fears operated upon the children, who, even to the youngest, put strange
questions to her.

"Why are you here, mother, in the lightning?" cried Hector.--"And where is my father?" inquired
Helen.--"See that flash again!" said Margaret, as she buried her head in her mother's bosom.

"Poor, helpless, little ones!" ejaculated she. "How little know ye that that which fears ye
most, is to me the smallest of my terrors! If man's wrath were quenched, heaven's would be
easily averted. This messenger's intelligence may seal your fates, and be felt in its consequences
to the last term of your lives. Come, loves, to bed. Hear ye that foot in the stair?"

The allusion to a mysterious visitor accomplished what the lightning of heaven could not effect--such
is the secret power of mystery over the young heart. Rising from her lap, they hurried away
to their beds, and left the not less terrified mother to hear the intelligence of the night
messenger. The door opened, and Ralph stood before her.

"God be thanked, my Leddie Cockburn," said he, in a repressed voice, and with fearful looks--"God
be thanked, for Henderland's absence! The king, wi' his nobles, are at Peebles, on their way
to Liddesdale, to tak vengeance on the chiefs o' the Borders, wha hae been foremost in the
foray and the rieving raid. They whisper yonder that there's a hangman in the train, wi' ropes,
to hang the ring-leaders on their castle buttresses; and Henderland is to be their first victim.
O my Leddie! dispatch, quick as thae flashes o' levin, a messenger to the master, and tell
him to flee to England, till the king's wrath has blawn owre. I hae braved this awful storm,
auld as I am, to save my master; and, if I but saw him safe frae the king's ire, I could lay
my banes at the foot o' the grave o' the Cockburns."

"I have been looking for this Ralph," answered Marjory, as she lifted her hands to seize her
hair, in her distress. "Even now, God be merciful! my husband is in the very act of rieving
and rebellion. But what said ye of Merlin's Elm, man? Is it not skaithed? Speak, no secrets
now; are the trees beside it blasted, and does it stand?"

"I hae heard yer Leddieship laugh at that auld rhyme," replied the servitor. "Fear naething
for a madman's freak. But it's true that three oaks by its side are blasted, riven and laid
on the earth, and yet it stands."

"Strange, strange are the ways of heaven," cried she, wringing her hands. "Ralph, you must
be the messenger to my husband. Haste and saddle my grey jennet, and flee by the Riever's Road,
to Tushielaw. Tell Henderland and Adam Scott, that King James comes, with a halter, to avenge
the rights of royalty and peace. Cry it forth in the midst of their battle. If he will not
flee, take his horse's head, and lead him to England. Away, away, for mercy and Henderland's
sake, good Ralph, and whisper in his ear--hark ye, man, 'tis no woman's dream--whisper the
fate of Lailoken's tree. The thunder may drown his laugh."

The faithful servant obeyed the command of his former mistress; and, hastening as fast as his
old limbs would enable him, mounted Marjory's grey jennet, and was soon out in the midst of
the storm. The only remaining servant left in the tower, besides the warder, was, at the same
time, despatched, by his half-frantic mistress, to proceed on the road to Peebles, and reconnoitre
the king's company, and convey to her what intelligence he could learn in regard to its movements.
By this time it was now about three o'clock; but the morning was still dark, the storm had
not abated, the rain still poured, the lightning flashed, and the neighbouring streams rolled
over their rugged channels with a noise that equalled the thunder which yet shook the heavens.
Marjory again took her seat on the casement; and her fancy, stimulated by her fears, became
again busy in the conjuration of images which, however fearful, unhappily stood too great a
chance of being realized. The substratum of indisputable facts was itself a good foundation
of fear:--The king, angry, and breathing revenge against his rebellious subjects of the Border,
was at hand--even within a few miles of her husband's residence; and the ensign of his authority
and punishment was borne by the common executioner; then he would detect her husband in the
very commission of that rebellious act against which the royal vengeance was to be directed;
and, above all, she feared--nay, she was certain, from her knowledge of Henderland's free,
bold spirit, that he would disdain to fly, and would at once commit himself into the hands
of a young incensed monarch, who had travelled forty miles for his blood. These were fearful,
incontrovertible facts, and they were contemplated by a solitary female in the dark hour of
night, in the midst of one of the fiercest storms that had ever visited that part of the country,
and under the blue lights of a fancy that, in spite of the appeals of judgment, reverted to
an old prophecy of a wonderful being, which seemed to have been respected even by the lightning
of heaven: the elm still stood; its brethren of the forest had fallen; and the rope to be attached
to it was on its way to Henderland. Fearful forebodings took possession of her mind; and, as
her fears rose higher and higher, she looked out in the dark, while the gleams of lightning
played round her couch, and every sound that differed from the roaring of the storm arrested
her ear, and kept her on the rack of painful anxiety. Her little children, meanwhile, who had
caught sympathetically her fears, and could not divine the cause of their mother's vigil by
the window in a thunder storm, had renounced sleep; and, disregarding her efforts to restrain
them, must see her at intervals, and question her again and again; and even from their sleeping
apartment they sent their exclamations of fear, and aggravated, by their sorrows and terror,
the misery of their mother.

In this condition Marjory remained for another hour. There was no stir in the tower, where
a female domestic or two lay, or slipped about, under the weight of a fear, the cause of which
had not been explained to them. The silence internally, broken at times by the cries of the
restless children, formed a strange and awe-inspiring contrast to the turmoil without, where
darkness and the storm still held sway over the earth. Oppressed by the sight of the black
heavens, she yet trembled to look for the first glimpse of dawn, which might be soon expected
to be seen struggling through the vapours of the storm. Light would bring the king and the
executioner; and she prayed that she might have an opportunity of seeing her husband before
the arrival of the royal cavalcade, that she might fall on her knees, and implore his instant
flight into England; but her ears caught no sounds in the direction of Tushielaw, save the
thunder and the rain, and, at intervals, the scream of the drenched owl or frightened hawk,
or the wheep of the restless lapwing, driven from the morass by the overwhelming torrent. Then
came the cry again, of "Mother, mother!" from her sleepless children, responded to by her own,
"Hush, hush, my darlings! your father cometh!" when her pained ear sought again the direction
of Peebles, and she trembled as her fancy suggested the sound of hoof or horn.

Thus another hour passed, and her racked feelings were still uncheered by a glimpse of hope.
The strength of her soul seemed to have passed into the physical organs of the eye and ear;
and every change, from darkness or silence, produced exacerbations of her fear, and painful
apprehension. The faint shade of light in the eastern heavens, which gave tokens of the approaching
dawn, might be a precursor of the king and his retinue; and as her eye fell upon it, she listened
again for the coming tread. A very faint sound was now heard, and it was too evident that it
came not from Tushielaw; it was from the direction of Peebles, and it sounded as if it were
the tread of a horse. It must be, she instantly thought, the scout of the king's cavalcade;
for, in her painful anxiety, she had forgotten her own messenger. The step approached nearer
and nearer; and more intense, in the same degree, grew her apprehension, till the sound of
her messenger's voice, calling the warder, struck her ear--and she imagined she never heard
a voice so hollow and ominous of death. The man was admitted, and his heavy step up the spiral
stair, flustering in the toil of a vain precipitude in the dark entrance, declared the impatience
of his intelligence.

"Ah! my Leddie," said he, as he ran forward, breathlessly and fearfully, "Ralph spoke truth.
The king's party will be at the castle in less time than an eagle may flee frae Dunyon to Ruberslaw.
I hae seen them. They carry torches to shew them the hill-paths, and keep them oot o' the saft
bogs. The light shone fearfully on the hill-sides, and the clatter o' their horses' hoofs rang
in my ears. I had seen enough, and made the greatest speed to bring the ill news."

"Cockburn, Cockburn," ejaculated the disconsolate wife, "what power may now save ye from thy
fate? His proud spirit will disdain flight--ay, and prompt a meeting with his executioner.
What has become of Ralph? Everything conspires toward the ruin of my hopes. You must to Tushielaw,
Thomas, and give a second warning to your master. Tell him of this torch-light progress of
the royal executioner, and warn him again to fly for his life, and the life of one who lives
through him. Yet, stay--shall I not go myself? One messenger hath failed already--shall a wife
fail in the cause of her husband's life?"

"The mountain torrents are swelled, my Leddie," replied Thomas of the Woodburn, "an' will be
noo sweepin owre the Riever's Road, carryin baith man an' horse to the howes; an' nane but
an auld hill-roadster may ken the richt tract frae that to ruin in the midst o' the darkness.
Ye micht as weel try to pass the Brig o' Dread, my Leddie. Yer bonnie body wad be fund a corpse
wi' the mornin's licht, an' Cockburn, pardoned by the king maybe, micht greet owre't. Besides,
ye should be here. A woman's voice turns awa meikle wrath."

"Away, then, yourself, good Thomas!--I believe your counsel is good. Heaven speed the message!
Cockburn's delay gives me a glimmer of hope, that Ralph hath already turned his head to England.
If so be it, you will report to me privately, and away from the ear of the king's followers.
If not, and if he cometh to meet the king, heaven look down in mercy on these poor children,
who still cry for their mother, and will not rest!"

Thomas obeyed; and, as she turned to comfort her children, before she again betook herself
to her weary station, she heard the clatter of the horse's heels over the gateway. The restlessness
of her little ones pained her: she imagined she saw, in their instinctive anxiety and fear,
some presage of coming evil, whereby, before another night, they might be orphans; and all
her efforts to remove the impression only tended to confirm it--thus strangely and fantastically
prophetic, is the apprehensive heart. After again assuring them that their father was coming,
she sought her seat at the casement; and saw, now, the grey dawn, throwing a stronger light
over the bleak hills, and exhibiting the white, foaming cataracts, dashing from brae to brae!
Any hope of seeing Cockburn, now, before the coming of the king, had gradually dwindled away,
and was extinct; and she as much feared to hear a sound from the direction of Tushielaw, as
she, an hour before, was anxious for that indication of her husband's approach. Every instant
she might expect to hear the tramp of the king's horses; nothing could avert that sound from
her ear, or prevent it beating upon her heart. It came at last; she heard it audibly, mixed
with the discordant jingle of armour, and striking her ear at the same time that a horrid glare
of torch-light pierced the deep wood, and arrested her eye. In a few minutes more, a trumpet
sounded a shrill blast; the feet of many restless horses raised a confused noise, that was
mixed with broken, under-toned ejaculations, and clanking of swords and bucklers, and, after
a minute or two of comparative silence, came the high tones of a herald's voice, demanding
admittance in the name of King James. The warder repaired to his mistress, and got his answer.
The gate was opened, and Marjory saw the cavalcade enter the base court surrounding the castle;
while two large bodies of soldiers, coming up about the same time, took their stations on each
side of the entrance. A circle was now formed by those who were within the court; and the grim
faces of the nobles, as they reflected the glare of the torches, were revealed clearly to her
gaze. In the middle stood the young king, in close and secret counsel with his confidential
advisers, and, at last, the warder was called before his Majesty, to account for the absence
of his master, tell where he had gone, and record his proceedings. The man reluctantly obeyed
the call.

"Where is thy master, sirrah?" inquired the king.

The warder was silent, and the question was repeated in sterner tones.

"I keep only this castle, your Highness," replied the warder; "my master is his ain keeper--an'
a better there's no between the twa Tynes."

"Thou art a good keeper of thine own tongue, at least," said James, angrily; "but we come not
from court unprepared with remedies for opening the mouths of close-hearted seneschals. Let
Lithcraig attend."

An opening was now made in the circle of nobles, and a man, dressed in a long black doublet,
came forward, holding in his hands a rope, ready to be suspended, and to suspend, in its turn,
the disobedient warder.

"Throw thy cord over the buttress, there," cried one of the nobles; "give the noose mouth enough
to tell its own tale, and I will answer for it bringing out his."

The man proceeded forward to a buttress of the castle completely exposed to the eyes of Marjory,
by the gleams that flared from the torches; and she saw him deliberately go through the operation
of making the projection available for the purpose of a gallows, by binding the cord to it,
and suspending a running noose, which seemed to gape in grim gesture for its victim. The moment
the rope was suspended, James pointed to it, and asked the warder to proceed and answer his
questions. The terrified man cast a wild eye on the relentless crowd around him, and then on
the engine of death that dangled before him, and, with faltering tongue, told the king that
Cockburn had gone on a midnight raid against Adam Scott of Tushielaw, who, some time before,
had made an assault on Henderland, and carried off twenty head of cattle, besides wounding
several of Cockburn's men; he stated, farther, that there had been many raids of late in Liddesdale;
but that his master had had, until Tushielaw roused him, scarcely any share in these struggles,
preferring the society of his lady, the fairest and the kindest woman of the Borders, to the
pleasures of rieving. This statement was received as evidence against Cockburn.

