Then Anne told him all the strange adventure of Portchester Castle, and even of the apparition
of the night before.  That gentleness and sympathy seemed to draw out all that was in her heart,
and to her surprise, he did not treat the story of that figure as necessarily a delusion. 
He had known and heard too much of spiritual manifestations to the outward senses to declare
that such things could not be.

What she had seen might be explained by one of four hypotheses.  It was either a phantom of
her brain, and her being fully awake, although recently dwelling on the recollection, rendered
that idea less probable, or the young man had not been killed and she had seen him in propria
persona.

She had Charles Archfield's word that the death was certain.  He had never been heard of again,
and if alive, the walk before Whitehall was the last place where he would be.  As to mistaking
any one else for him, the Bishop remembered enough of the queer changeling elf to agree with
her that it was not a very probable contingency.  And if it were indeed a spirit, why should
it visit her?  There had been one good effect certainly in the revival of home thoughts and
turning her mind from the allurements of favour, but that did not seem to account for the spirit
seeking her out.

Was it, Anne faltered, a sign that she ought to confess all, for the sake of procuring Christian
burial for him.  Yet how should she, when she had promised silence to young Archfield?  True,
it was for his wife's sake, and she was dead; but there were the rest of his family and himself
to be considered.  What should she do?

The Bishop thought a little while, then said that he did not believe that she ought to speak
without Mr. Archfield's consent, unless she saw any one else brought into danger by her silence.
If it ever became possible, he thought, that she should ascertain whether the body were in
the vault, and if so, it might be possible to procure burial for it, perhaps without identification,
or at any rate without making known what could only cause hostility and distress between the
two families, unless the young man himself on his return should make the confession.  This
the Bishop evidently considered the sounder, though the harder course, but he held that Anne
had no right to take the initiative.  She could only wait, and bear her load alone; but the
extreme kindness and compassion with which he talked to her soothed and comforted her so much
that she felt infinitely relieved and strengthened when he dismissed her with his blessing,
and far happier and more at peace than she had been since that terrible summer morning, though
greatly humbled, and taught to repent of her aspirations after earthly greatness, and to accept
her present condition as a just retribution, and a trial of constancy.

King Lear.

"Am I--oh! am I going home?" thought Anne.  "My uncle will be at Winchester.  I am glad of
it.  I could not yet bear to see Portchester again.  That Shape would be there.  Yet how shall
I deal with what seems laid on me?  But oh! the joy of escaping from this weary, weary court!
Oh, the folly that took me hither!  Now that the Prince is gone, Lady Strickland will surely
speak to the Queen for my dismissal."

There had been seventeen days of alarms, reports, and counter- reports, and now the King, with
the Prince of Denmark, had gone to join the army on Salisbury Plain, and at the same time the
little Prince of Wales had been sent off to his half-brother, the Duke of Berwick, at Portsmouth,
under charge of Lady Powys, there to be embarked for France.  Anne had been somewhat disappointed
at not going with them, hoping that when at Portsmouth or in passing Winchester she might see
her uncle and obtain her release, for she had no desire to be taken abroad; but it was decreed
otherwise. Miss Dunord went, rejoicing and thankful to be returning to France, and the other
three rockers remained.

There had already been more than one day of alarms and tumults.  The Body-guards within were
always on duty; the Life-guards without were constantly patrolling; and on the 5th of November,
when the Prince of Orange was known to be near at hand, and was in fact actually landing at
Torbay, the mob had with difficulty been restrained from burning in effigy, not only Guy Fawkes,
but Pope, cardinals, and mitred bishops, in front of the palace, and actually paraded them
all, with a figure of poor Sir Edmondbury Godfrey bearing his head in his hand, tied on horseback
behind a Jesuit, full before the windows, with yells of

"The Pope, the Pope, Up the ladder and down the rope,"

and clattering of warming-pans.

Jane Humphreys was dreadfully frightened.  Anne found her crouching close to her bed, with
the curtains wrapped round her.  "Have they got in?" she cried.  "O Miss Woodford, how shall
we make them believe we are good Protestants?"

And when this terror had subsided, and it was well known that the Dutch were at Exeter, there
was another panic, for one of the Life- guardsmen had told her to beware, since if the Royal
troops at Hounslow were beaten, the Papists would surely take their revenge.

"I am to scream from the windows to Mr. Shaw," she said; but what good will that do if the
priests and the Frenchmen have strangled me?  And perhaps he won't be on guard."

"He was only trying to frighten you," suggested Anne.

"Dear me, Miss Woodford, aren't you afraid?  You have the stomach of a lion."

"Why, what would be the good of hurting us?"

However, Anne was not at all surprised, when on the very evening of the Prince's departure,
old Mrs. Humphreys, a venerable-looking dame in handsome but Puritanically-fashioned garments,
came in a hackney coach to request in her son's name that her granddaughter might return with
her, as her occupation was at an end.

Jane was transported with joy.

"Ay, ay," said the grandmother, "look at you now, and think how crazy you were to go to the
palace, though 'twas always against my judgment."

"Ah, I little knew how mortal dull it would be!" said Jane.

"Ye've found it no better than the husks that the swine did eat, eh? So much the better and
safer for your soul, child."

Nobody wanted to retain Jane, and while she was hastily putting her things together, the grandmother
turned to Anne:  "And you, Mistress Woodford, from what I hear, you have been very good in
keeping my silly child stanch to her religion and true to her duty.  If ever on a pinch you
needed a friend in London, my son and I would be proud to serve you--Master Joshua Humphreys,
at the Golden Lamb, Gracechurch Street, mind you.  No one knows what may hap in these strange
and troublesome times, and you might be glad of a house to go to till you can send to your
own friends--that is, if we are not all murdered by the Papists first."

Though Anne did not expect such a catastrophe as this, she was really grateful for the offer,
and thought it possible that she might avail herself of it, as she had not been able to communicate
with any of her mother's old friends, and Bishop Ken was not to her knowledge still in London.

She watched anxiously for the opportunity of asking Lady Strickland whether she might apply
for her dismissal, and write to her uncle to fetch her home.

"Child," said the lady, "I think you love the Queen."

"Indeed I do, madam."

"It is well that at this juncture all Protestants should not leave her.  You are a gentlewoman
in manner, and can speak her native tongue, friends are falling from her, scarcely ladies are
left enough to make a fit appearance around her; if you are faithful to her, remain, I entreat
of you."

There was no resisting such an appeal, and Anne remained in the rooms now left bare and empty,
until a message was brought to her to come to the Queen.  Mary Beatrice sat in a chair by her
fire, looking sad and listless, her eyes red with weeping, but she gave her sweet smile as
the girl entered, and held out her hand, saying in her sweet Italian, "You are faithful, Signorina
Anna! you remain! That is well; but now my son is gone, Anna, you must be mine.  I make you
my reader instead of his rocker."

As Anne knelt on one knee to kiss hands with tears in her eyes, the Queen impulsively threw
her arms round her neck and kissed her. "Ah, you loved him, and he loved you, il mio tesorino?"

Promotion had come--how strangely.  She had to enter on her duties at once, and to read some
chapters of an Italian version of the Imitation.  A reader was of a higher grade of importance
than a rocker, and for the ensuing days, when not in attendance on the Queen, Anne was the
companion of Lady Strickland and Lady Oglethorpe.  In the absence of the King and Prince, the
Queen received Princess Anne at her own table, and Lady Churchill and Lady Fitzhardinge joined
that of her ladies-in-waiting.

Lady Churchill, with her long neck, splendid hair and complexion, short chin, and sparkling
blue eyes, was beautiful to look at, but not at all disposed to be agreeable to the Queen's
ladies, whom she treated with a sort of blunt scorn, not at all disguised by the forms of courtesy.
However, she had, to their relief, a good deal of leave of absence just then to visit her children,
as indeed the ladies agreed that she did pretty much as she chose, and that the faithful Mrs.
Morley was somewhat afraid of the dear Mrs. Freeman.

One evening in coming up some steps Princess Anne entangled her foot in her pink taffetas petticoat,
nearly fell, and tore a large rent, besides breaking the thread of the festoons of seed pearls
which bordered it, and scattering them on the floor.

"Lack-a-day!  Lack-a-day!" sighed she, as after a little screaming she gathered herself up
again.  "That new coat!  How shall I ever face Danvers again such a figure?  She's an excellent
tirewoman, but she will be neither to have nor to hold when she sees that gown-- that she set
such store by!  Nay, I can hardly step for it."

"I think I could repair it, with Her Majesty's and your Royal Highness's permission," said
Anne, who was creeping about on her knees picking up the pearls."

"Oh! do! do!  There's a good child, and then Danvers and Dawson need know nothing about it,"
cried the Princess in great glee.  "You remember Dawson, don't you, little Woodie, as we used
to call you, and how she used to rate us when we were children if we soiled our frocks?"

So, in the withdrawing-room, Anne sat on the floor with needle and silk, by the light of the
wax candles, deftly repairing the rent, and then threading the scattered pearls, and arranging
the festoon so as to hide the darn.  The Princess was delighted, and while the poor wife lay
back in her chair, thankful that behind her fan she could give way to her terrible anxieties
about her little son, who might be crossing to France, and her husband, suffering from fearful
nose-bleeding, and wellnigh alone among traitors and deserters, the step-daughter, on the other
side of the great hearth, chattered away complacently to 'little Woodford.'

"Do you recollect old Dawson, and how she used to grumble when I went to sup with the Duchess--my
own mother--you know, because she used to give me chocolate, and she said it made me scream
at night, and be over fat by day?  Ah! that was before you used to come among us.  It was after
I went to France to my poor aunt of Orleans.  I remember she never would let us kiss her for
fear of spoiling her complexion, and Mademoiselle and I did so hate living maigre on the fast
days.  I was glad enough to get home at last, and then my sister was jealous because I talked
French better than she did."

