PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 150

February 2, 1916.

CHARIVARIA.

According to the Correspondent of The Daily Mail who described the festivities at Nish, the
King of BULGARIA "has a curious duck-like waddle." This is believed to be the result of his
effort to do the Goose-Step while avoiding the Turkey-Trot.

       ***

Owing to the extraction of benzol and toluol from gas for the purpose of making high-explosives
it is stated that consumers may have to put up with some decrease in illuminating power. It
is expected, in view of the good object involved, that the announcement will be received in
a spirit of toluoleration.

       ***

We cannot agree with the actor who complains that his manager forbids him to wear his armlet
on the stage. The sympathies of the audience might be entirely deranged by the discovery that
the elderly villain was an attested patriot while the young and beautiful hero was either ineligible
or a slacker.

       ***

Describing the depressed condition of the laundry trade a witness at the Clerkenwell County
Court said, "We are eight million double collars short every week." It is shrewdly conjectured
that they are in the neighbourhood of the Front.

       ***

Nothing in the course of his Balkan pilgrimage is reported to have pleased the KAISER so much
as a steamer-trip on the Danube. It was looking so sympathetically blue.

       ***

The Government is going to close Museums and Picture-galleries to the public. No one shall
accuse us of being Apostles of Culture.

       ***

It is said that the Australian and New Zealand soldiers now in London are very fond of visiting
the British Museum, and take a particular interest in the Egyptian antiquities. But it is not
true that they now refer to England as "The Mummy Country."

       ***

Austrians and Hungarians are said to be quarrelling as to whether the occupied Serbian territory
should eventually belong to the Monarchy or the Kingdom, and the jurists on either side are
ransacking the history of the past for arguments to support their respective cases. Here we
have another instance of the fondness of learned men for disputing about purely academic questions.
Serbia will belong to the Serbians.

       ***

An American gentleman, who started out to visit his wife when she was staying with her mother
and failed to find her after three days' search, excuses himself on the ground that he had
forgotten her maiden name. He puts it down to absence of mind; and his mother-in-law is inclined
to agree with him.

       ***

Soap is the latest article to be placed on the list of absolute contraband; and it is now more
certain than ever that the Germans will not come out of the War with clean hands.

       ***

In view of the impending paper-famine a widely-circulated journal announces its readiness to
receive back from the public any parcels of old copies marked "waste paper." In the opinion
of its trade-rivals the inscription is superfluous.

       ***

A suggestion has been made by a Registrar in Bankruptcy that the Tercentenary of SHAKSPEARE'S
death should be celebrated by the performance in every large town of one of the Bard's plays;
and some regret has been expressed that anybody should take advantage of a national celebration
to boom his own business.

       ***

"'How many of us realise that, were it not for America, the War to-day in Europe, as fought,
could not even exist?'" is the question put, according to a New York correspondent, "by Mr.
Gutzon Borglum, the great American sculptor." Still the War has its compensations. But for
its existence we might never have heard of Mr. GUTZON BORGLUM, the great American sculptor.

       ***

A correspondent, describing the recent food riots in Berlin, says that they were chiefly due
to "women who were fed up with the difficulty of providing meals for their families."

       ***

The following notice was found affixed to a building somewhere near the Front: "SIR OFFICERS,--Ask
the bathroom's key to the office. The bathroom shall be wash by the servant after bath. Sir
Officer without servant shall not have the key." It sounds rather abrupt.

       ***

Owing to the Government demand that nothing in the way of unnecessary expenditure should be
allowed, it is expected that all paid lecturers on War Economy and National Thrift will be
given a week's notice.

       ***

Opposing a suggestion of the Wandsworth Borough Council to discontinue the issue of fiction
from the free libraries, a member of the Women's Freedom League said that a novel was to a
woman what a pipe was to a man. Well, not quite, perhaps. We never saw a man begin a pipe at
the wrong end.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

From an article by Mr. AUSTIN HARRISON in The Sunday Pictorial:--

    "A few strange gentlemen attitudinise in Westminster on
    principle, but these men would cut capers of principle in any
    case, like Mr. Snodgrass when he went skating."

Or Mr. Winkle when he wrote verses.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In the Continental boat-trains the warning, 'Licht
    linauslehnen,' has not been removed from the windows....
    Occasionally you see that 'Nicht linauslehnen' has been
    indignantly pasted over."--Provincial Paper.

The latter is certainly a little more German than the other.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a description of the new lighting order:--

    "The regulations will impose a great deal of work on the police,
    and it is the duty of the public to make it as light as
    possible."--Hampshire Observer.

Lux, in fact, a non lucendo.

       *       *       *       *       *

A LONELY LIFE.

    "Nothing but margarine has entered my door since the War
    began."--Dr. C. W. SALEEBY in "Daily Chronicle."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WATCH DOGS.

XXXIV.

MY DEAR CHARLES,--We're having a great time with our new arrival, one of those confounded civilians,
who are only let into the business because the business, in these modern and highly complicated
days, cannot be carried on without them. He's a jolly old Lieutenant of about fifty years;
he has a concentrated experience of the world but doesn't remember having been mixed up in
a big European war before. At first I kept on telling him that business is one thing and war
is another, but he wouldn't see it and persisted in doing and saying and thinking things which
were bound to land us in a national disaster. He had no respect whatever for the Pass Memo.,
his central and sole idea being to push along with the elimination of the Bosch. When he wanted
something done, he just went to the Top-man of the department, called him "I say," and went
straight to the point. The Top-man had never been asked to do business this way before.

He put up with it a dozen times or so, but finally he had to take steps. So he wrote a little
note on a Buff slip and addressed it, very rightly of course, to the Top-man but one; and the
Top-man but one read it and passed it very carefully to the Top-man but two; and so, with that
inevitability which is the hall-mark of the system, it was passed and passed and passed until
it came (in less than a week) to the office of the ancient Lieutenant on the opposite side
of the street. And it ran: "Lieutenant So-and-So should be notified that it is neither necessary
nor desirable that he should call personally at this office to transact his business. Matters
should be put forward by him through the usual course of correspondence." The ancient Lieutenant,
who wouldn't hurt anybody's feelings for the world, felt that it was up to him to put the matter
right. So he stepped across to the Top-man's office, and when the Top-man asked him, somewhat
pointedly, if he had received his note, the Ancient very genially replied, "Yes, thank you,"
and explained that he had just looked in personally to acknowledge receipt of same.

It sounds as if a dreadful quarrel would be raging between the Ancient on one side and on the
other the Top-man, the whole series of under-Top-men and all persons in any way representing
the military system. You'd expect to hear that the Ancient's conversation at mess is insubordinate,
rebellious, or at least bitterly sarcastic. No such thing; the old gentleman becomes a more
ardent militarist every day; wants to see once for all an end of all lawyer-politicians, and
all so-called "business-men." "We have made a poor show of being civilians," is his point;
"let's try being soldiers for a generation or two."

On the whole he thinks we should find it easier to carry on as a British Empire in uniform
than as a German province in mufti. He says that what's wrong with Prussian Militarism is that
it is Prussian; to succeed, the thing has to be run by gentlemen.

A Top-man honoured our mess the other night. Under the mellowing influence of our Curried Bully
he unbent somewhat and encouraged the Ancient on his pet subject. Under the influence of the
latter's theories he unbent still further. He discoursed upon the true inwardness of the military
method of running an office, pausing at last for the Ancient to say a few words. "Oh," said
he, "I don't allow myself to be put off by a trifle like that. There's many a kind heart behind
a Buff slip, and we all have our little weaknesses." The idea of having a little weakness was
so novel to the Top-man that it caused him to choke and to be led from the mess, eventually,
in a state of nervous exhaustion.

The latest information from the trenches goes to support the maxim that all one requires to
wage war is a bold face and a gas helmet. A very distinguished O.C. went up the other day to
inspect the trenches of his command and to express such views of their faults and the faults
of their inmates as might occur to him from time to time. He had progressed some way up the
communication trench, when it struck him that, whereas his recent order had been particularly
menacing to everyone of whatever rank who was discovered there or thereabouts without a gas
helmet, nevertheless he himself was at that moment innocent of such furniture. Fortunately
there came from the opposite direction an odds-and-end private, with nothing in his favour
except the wearing of the well-known satchel so much in vogue in Flanders society for the carrying
of gas helmets. That was enough for the Commander; this was essentially one of those privates
to be called "My man," and treated as such. Politely but firmly he was requested to part with
his satchel as a temporary loan to his General. Firmly, if respectfully, he refused to comply.
Them was his orders. The Commander congratulated him on his very proper attitude, explained
to him the nature of the higher commands and demanded the satchel. The man looked like being
stony about it, but the Commander became irresistibly commanding and got the satchel at last.
He buckled it on, and the party proceeded, characterising the reluctance of the private to
part with his treasure as almost an exaggerated sense of obedience to printed orders.

Gas helmets always exercise a peculiar fascination for people who inspect trenches, and the
matter was now especially prominent in the mind of the Commander as he marched along, outwardly
appearing to be at his happiest here, inwardly thanking goodness that his home was elsewhere.
Conceive his delight to discover a subaltern, fresh from ablutions, with no satchel upon him!
The subaltern, distinctly aware of this amongst his many failings, was all for being passed
by as insignificant; the Commander was all for a scene. Everybody halted, and the air became
pregnant with possibilities.... It was a nicely calculated speech, leading up gradually to
the pointed contrast between (a) overworked Commander, weighed down with responsibilities,
absorbed day and night in momentous matters of large principle, nevertheless infallible on
smallest detail and now in possession of gas helmet, one, and (b) very junior subaltern, free
to enjoy the open-air irresponsible life of the trenches, yet neglecting even the few small
matters entrusted to him, without same.

"And what's more, Sir," he concluded, "I doubt very much whether, if someone gave you a helmet
now, you'd know what to do with it. Here, take mine." (The attendant Brass-hats liked the "mine,"
but very discreetly kept their emotions to themselves.)

It was not a peculiarly clean or remarkably well-packed satchel which the trembling hand of
the disgraced subaltern took from the Commander, and the latter did not intend to let attention
dwell too long upon the grimy details of its exterior. Fixing the steel eye of conscious rectitude
on his victim, he leant slightly towards him and very unmistakably shouted at him the one dread
word, "GAS!".... Unfortunately for the Commander the subaltern not only knew what to do next,
but also had just the physical strength remaining in his fingers to start doing it. With the
eyes of all upon him (and by this time there had gathered round quite a nice little crowd,
thoroughly conversant with the event in progress), the subaltern opened the satchel alleged
to belong to the Commander and took from it--no, Charles, not a gas helmet, but a pair of socks--and
such socks too!

Yours ever, HENRY.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ON BELLONA'S HEM.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mrs. Ruth Roberts, of Folkestone, celebrates the completion of
    her 103rd year to-day. She is one of a family of twenty-two, and
    her father fought with two of her sons at Waterloo."--Irish
    Times.

She seems to have been very young for a mother when these family dissensions occurred.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Will you allow me to give a warning to Ford owners who, like
    myself, jack up to obtain an easy start. A few days ago I was
    doing so as usual with only one scotch. The car jumped the jack,
    went over the scotch, knocked me down, ran over me, tore my
    clothes to rags, bruised me all over, tore my flesh and broke my
    collar-bone, and I think I got off very lightly. Of course that
    will not happen to me again."--The Motor.

He will either drink the Scotch first or not have one at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FAUNA OF THE FRONT.

Chief among the fauna of the Front is, of course, the Bosch, a subterranean animal of unpleasant
habits, which is now classed as vermin. He has been so thoroughly dealt with elsewhere that
I shall leave him on one side, and confine my few observations to smaller and pleasanter creatures.
The remaining fauna of the Front are (1) mice; (2) rats; with a few interesting extras, furred
and feathered, which deserve more serious treatment than I can give them.

At home the mouse is regarded with contemptuous annoyance as a petty but persevering thief;
while the rat commits his grosser depredations in an atmosphere tinged with horror. Out here
it is different, for we are perforce neighbours. Indeed, we bipeds are in a sense trespassers
upon the domain of the subterranean peoples. At home one seldom sees a rat or mouse save from
above, and to look down upon anything is invariably to misjudge it. But here we share the hospitality
of the underground and meet its freehold tenants on a level.

From the earth walls of the sanctuary where this small tribute is written mice look down upon
our table with its newspaper cover, diffidently waiting for us to finish our meal and permit
them to dine. We regard them as shy visitors--though are we not billeted on them?--not as sneaking
thieves, and by the light of our candles perceive how sleek, bright-eyed, neat-handed and agile
they are. In one dug-out I know a certain mouse who will drop on your shoulder and sit there
a while in the friendliest manner, trying in his tiny modest way to play the host. Up above,
in the open air, they are to be seen in swarms sharing our watchfulness. This gun-shaken valley
is honeycombed with their little round funk-holes, into which they flash at any sudden noise.
It is merely going downstairs where we are all at home.

The social instincts of the rat are less highly developed. His visible visits to the mess are
rarer, but we overhear his conversation in his tunnels that open on our shelves, the patter
of his pink feet across the canvas overhead, and the muscular squirming of his body in some
tight place about the sandbag wainscot. Like a friendly dog he trots about your dug-out by
night, bumping with trustful carelessness against the fragile legs of your rustic bed. You
hear him crooning to himself or a pal, in his content--a placid, complacent little sound very
different from the grating squeak or squeal of the unhappy Ishmaels you used to know. Certainly
he will help himself to a little cake, if such a thing is to be had, for he feels at home,
as he doubtless wishes you to do. If you do not care to share your dainties, you can hang them
from the roof.

In the trenches themselves the rat is almost a domestic animal. Town rats are lean, persecuted
and vicious; nobody loves them. But those who hobnob with us here are fed, like our Army, on
Army rations, together with more than their share of private luxuries, and consequently are
stout and contented-looking, and display none of the ill-bred and disconcerting haste of the
hereditary fugitive of our drains and cellars. If you happen to stand still and silent for
a few moments, you will hear some cheery old rascal come sniffing and grunting along the parapet,
not so much in search of food as to enjoy the air--or so his manner would indicate.

Between the Army and these other dwellers in earths and burrows there must henceforth be a
bond of true sympathy.

       *       *       *       *       *

To be added to our collection "Glimpses of the Obvious":--

    "We feel more than ever that the Past is all behind us and the
    Future all in front."--Reading Standard.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a trade circular:--

    "We are installing 15 of our largest size Patent Fool-proof
    Steam Kettles at Woolwich Arsenal."

Zeppelin crews please note.

       *       *       *       *       *

LAST THOUGHTS ON GALLIPOLI.

  Once more sits Mahomet by Helles' marges
    And smokes at ease among his cypress-trees,
  Nor snipes from scrubberies at British targes
    Nor views them wallowing in sacred seas,
  But cleans his side-arms and is pleased to prattle
    Of that great morning when he woke and heard
  That in his slumbers he had fought a battle,
    A bloody battle, and a little bird
  Piped (in the German) at his side, and said,
  "The something infidels have been and fled."

  Cautious he crept from out his mountain-ditches,
    Down the long gully, past the Water Towers;
  By Backhouse Point he nosed among the niches,
    But they were hushed, and innocent of Giaours;
  Still fearful found the earthy homes we haunted,
    Those thirsty stretches where the rest-camps were,
  Then to the sea slunk on, a trifle daunted
    By wreathéd wires and every sort of snare,
  And came at last, incredulous, to find
  The very beach all blasphemously mined.

  Now on each hand he eyes our impious labels,
    BOND STREET and REGENT STREET, those weary ways;
  Here stands the PINK FARM, with the broken gables,
    Here OXFORD CIRCUS marks a winding maze;
  But most, I ween, in scarred grave-ridden regions
    O'er many a battle-scene he loves to brood,
  How Allah here was gracious to his legions,
    How here, again, he was not quite so good,
  Here by the BROWN HOUSE, when the bombs began,
  And they--don't mention it--they turned and ran.

  And we no more shall see the great ships gather,
    Nor hear their thundering on days of state,
  Nor toil from trenches in an honest lather
    To magic swimmings in the perfect Strait;
  Nor sip Greek wine and see the slow sun dropping
    On gorgeous evenings over Imbros' Isle,
  While up the hill that maxim will keep popping,
    And the men sing, and camp-fires wink awhile,
  And in the scrub the glow-worms glow like stars,
  But (hopeless creatures) will not light cigars;

  Nor daylong linger in our delvéd lodges,
    And fight for food with fifty thousand flies,
  Too sick and sore to be afraid of "proj's,"
   Too dazed with dust to see the turquoise skies;
  Nor walk at even by the busy beaches,
    Or quiet cliff-paths where the Indians pray,
  And see the sweepers in the sky-blue reaches
    Of Troy's own water, where the Greek ships lay,
  And touch the boat-hulks, where they float forlorn,
  The wounded boats of that first April morn;

  Nor wake unhappily to see the sun come
    And stand to arms in some Cimmerian grot--
  But I, in town, well rid of all that bunkum,
    I like to think that Mahomet is not;
  He must sit on, now sweltering, now frozen,
    By many a draughty cliff and mountain holt,
  And, when rude fears afflict the Prophet's chosen,
    Gird on his arms and madly work his bolt,
  While round the heights the awful whispers run,
  "The bard of PUNCH is landing with his gun."

       *       *       *       *       *

CONDESCENSION.

    "THROUGH STRESS OF WAR Baronet's Niece will ORDER a Gentleman's
    HOUSEHOLD."--The Times.

       *       *       *       *       *

UNWRITTEN LETTERS TO THE KAISER.

No. XXXIV.

(From the Frau Professor TINTENKLECKS.)

ALL-MIGHTIEST KAISER,--With the humblest assurance of my everlasting respect I desire to lay
bare to you, since you are without doubt the Father of your People, my inmost thoughts as to
this terrible War in which we have now for eighteen months been engaged. I have some right,
I think, for my husband is that same Professor Tintenklecks whose opusculum on "International
Law in Relation to World Power" was received with special favour by your Majesty, who summoned
the beloved writer to your Palace, and with your own gracious right hand were pleased to beat
him with some force on his back, saying that "this Tintenklecks is a tremendous fellow, and
there should be more such in the world." How well I remember that evening--it was a year before
the War--and how in honour of the Professor we had a Poetry supper, at which each guest recited
some verses of praise, and at the end little Amalie Siegeltisch, the daughter of our colleague,
placed on the brows of the Professor a laurel-wreath which, however, pricked his with-much-hair-unadorned
head, and had therefore, after a great deal of pleasant witticisms, to be taken off.

So when the War at last broke out my husband and I were amongst the loudest Hosannah-shouters
and singers of true German patriotic songs, for we believed then that the War would be a short
one, and that after a few great victories we should make a brilliant peace on our own terms,
having utterly smashed all our enemies and having taken England's war-ships and her colonies
for our own. "Long he cannot last," said my Professor, speaking of the War. "The French are
a degenerate race, and we shall be in Paris in a month. The English are given up to games,
and their mercenary army--I have it on the highest authority--cannot for a moment stand against
our German heroes. The Russians are slow and disorganised and useless for war. For me you need
not be afraid, my dear. In this war a man of my age will not be required." So he spoke; and
now where is he and what has become of him? He has lost a leg, his right hand has been shot
through, and he is in a hospital in Poland. Shall I ever see him again, I wonder.

Well, we have had victories in plenty, according to the Generals. Every time we move from one
place to another we gain, it seems, an overwhelming triumph and cause to fly every one who
is opposed to us. Twice already your Majesty has announced that before the leaves fell from
the trees there would be peace, and our brave soldiers would return safely to their homes;
but, alas, it has not so happened, and the dreadful fighting still goes on, and many thousands
of our women lose their fathers, their husbands, and their sons. With every victory (as they
call it) peace, which should be nearer at hand, seems to retire further and further away, and
only sorrow and wretchedness come close to us. And that is not all. Our food, like everything
else we have to buy, is so dear that we women find it above all things difficult to provide
ourselves with what we need for our daily life, and the worst of it, they say, has not yet
come. I could understand that if we had been defeated; but we have been ever victorious and
yet we are in want. It is useless for Pastor Hassmann to tell us on Sundays that we must endure
to the end. We are prepared to do what we can, but we think, too, that since we have been so
magnificently victorious we should have peace quickly, so that we may all once more try to
have some happiness in this world.

  I remain, in the deepest devotion,

    Your loyal, KUNEGUNDE TINTENKLECKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

MR. PUNCH'S POTTED FILMS. THE DOMESTIC DRAMA.

WHAT A LITTLE CHILD CAN DO.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MEDITATIONS OF MARCUS O'REILLY.

LUCY.

We called her Lucy because she came from the country and "dwelt on a wide moor." We never knew
her real name.

She came like a ray of sunlight into our dull sordid town once a week with immaculate white
apron, wearing a cap of an older, honester world, carrying a basket of delicious country butter
made up in appetising rolls. On the clean napkin which covered the top of the basket always
reposed a huge door-key, "to keep," she said, "the butter from turning." And the white hair
of her and those wonderful blue eyes which looked you through and through! No wonder my wife
was in love with her and refused from that time to eat the dull town-grocer's wares.

My wife often muses as to the real cause of the general superiority of dwellers in the country
over the apologies for humanity who live in towns. She says it is moral fibre. She comes from
the country herself and is quite unbiassed. For me I think it must be living so much amongst
sheep and lambs and woolly things.

I shouldn't have said myself that our town butter was without fibre, but this is a matter of taste.

My wife would often close her eyes when eating Lucy and conjure up pictures of her own simple
girlhood days, of the country rectory, of the rooks singing matins and vespers in the trees.
Country people often get like this over an egg at breakfast. I didn't eat Lucy myself, as my
taste is ruined by my vicious town breeding; besides, Lucy was a luxury in war-time, and Dossett's
Genuine Creamery has for me a meatier savour.

Cecilia always gave Lucy more than the market value for her butter and a cup of tea besides,
while they chatted occasionally over things dear to rural hearts, accidents by flood and field,
turnips and parochial vestries. My wife used to marvel at the superior firmness of Lucy's butter,
which was ever the same, Lucy's explanation being that she had a wonderfully cool hand.

Our local inspector, a man of the latest and most scientific knowledge, confirmed this statement.
In introducing Lucy to our resident magistrate he said she was the coolest hand he had ever
known. It was a bad case. It had ten per cent. too much of this, and fifteen per cent. too
much of that, and the rest was the cheapest margarine and stirring. There wasn't a cow within
five miles of her place and he didn't believe she had ever seen one.

We haven't met Lucy since. My wife says that WORDSWORTH was often taken in, just like that.
And she has heard, anyhow, that Lucy was born in Bradford. So that it proves nothing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hymn for Volunteer Corps digging trenches for the defence of London:--

    "O Parados! O Parados! 'tis weary working here!"

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The baby should go out every day, except when it is
    storming."--New York Sunday Herald.

In that case try a wind-pill.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "To-day's Russian communiqué says:--

    In Persia, on the road to Kermanshah, we have occupied the town
    of Kangavar.

    Note.--Kangavar is a town of 15-3/4-3/4 inhabitants in the
    Province of Ardilan."--Aberdeen Evening Express.

This is carrying accuracy to an extreme, even for Scotland.

       *       *       *       *       *

["What I would say to Neutrals is this: Do they admit our right to apply the principles which
were applied by the American Government in the War between North and South--to apply those
principles to modern conditions and to do our best to prevent trade with the enemy through
neutral countries? If the answer is that we are not entitled to do that, then I must say definitely
that it is a departure from neutrality."--Sir EDWARD GREY.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

(EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF TOBY, M.P.)

House of Commons, Monday, January 24th.--At Question time House crowded in response to urgent
Whip issued in anticipation of division on Third Reading of Military Service Bill. Members
ready to vote; disinclined to remain to hear speeches, delivered on Second Reading and Committee
stages, reiterated by small minority on Report. Thus it came to pass that when on stroke of
half-past nine this milestone passed, Benches were almost empty.

Filled up when Third Reading moved, and debate lamely set on foot again. WALTER LONG, who has
greatly helped BONAR LAW in his successful management of Bill, set good example by moving Third
Reading without additional word of comment or argument. Example thrown away. More last words
spoken under embarrassing accompaniment of private conversation and other signs of impatience.

Shortly after eleven o'clock division taken, revealing existence of solid minority of three
dozen. Oddly enough, whilst rattling majority on Second Reading was hailed with enthusiastic
cheering, that on Third Reading was heard in silence, Members hurrying off in search of taxis.

Business done.--By majority of 347, in House of 419 Members, Military Service Bill read a third
time and passed on to Lords.

House of Lords, Tuesday.--Military Service Bill turned up for Second Reading. Full attendance
and a gathering of Commoners in their pen above Bar seemed to indicate important debate. Turned
out to be only less dull than that which slumbered round closing stage in the Commons. LANSDOWNE
pluckily endeavoured to give note of novelty to topic by saying "not what the Bill was but
what it was not." Even this ingenious device did not succeed in investing proceedings with
anything approaching animation.

The WEARY WEARDALE, who through long public life has tried in succession both branches of the
Legislature and found them equally withered, was doubtful whether the measure would appreciably
affect its avowed purpose of increasing number of men with the Colours. With instinct of good
Liberal--in his time PHILIP STANHOPE was known in the Commons as an almost dangerous Radical--he
turned and rent "certain leaders who have surrendered a precious principle and in so doing
are undermining the authority and existence of the whole Liberal Party." Still, though prospect
was gloomy, he would not despair.

"The Liberal Party," he said, "will rise again" (HALSBURY shook his head doubtfully) "and will
shed the leaders who have deserted it."

Having thus delivered his soul WEARY ONE did not challenge a division.

Business done.--Military Service Bill read second time without division.

House of Commons, Wednesday.--Once more, the last time in history of session of unparalleled
length and importance, House crowded. Peers' Gallery full. From Diplomatic Gallery the United
States, Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Holland, represented by their Ministers, looked on, eagerly
listening.

Resolution, moved by SHIRLEY BENN, urged Government to enforce against enemy a blockade as
effective as possible. In one of his comprehensive, quietly delivered and powerful speeches
EDWARD GREY showed that situation is not so easily managed as amateur diplomatists below the
Gangway believe, or as fractious newspapers, bent on damaging the Government even if the Empire
falls, assert. Explained in detail steps taken by Foreign Office to deal with it. House listened
critically but approvingly. Took note of fact that FIRST LORD OF ADMIRALTY emphatically cheered
denial of one of the malicious rumours current--that in the task of preventing supplies reaching
the enemy the Foreign Office spoils the work of the Navy.

Sharp, almost angry burst of cheering greeted passage towards close of speech in which FOREIGN
SECRETARY declared that maximum effort in this country, whether military, naval or financial,
is at the disposal of our Allies in carrying on the War against Prussian militarism.

"With them," he confidently but still quietly said, "we will see it through to the end."

Speeches following expressed general satisfaction with this statement, supplemented by one
addressed to neutrals. Courteously assured them of desire not to make things unnecessarily irksome.

Business done.--Resolution advocating effective blockade talked out.

THURSDAY.--Parliament prorogued. Reversing CHARLES LAMB'S conscientious habit at the India
Office, where, having arrived late, he made up for it by going away early, Parliament, having
toiled through exceptionally long Session, treats itself to briefest possible recess. Reassembles
15th February.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

DIANA UP TO DATE.

    "MANAGERESS (35), thorough business woman, accustomed to control
    stag."--Women's Employment.

       *       *       *       *       *

From an account of the reception of British soldiers in Rome:--

    "As the hour for departure approached the band played
    alternately the 'Marcia Reale' and 'Rule, Britannia,' while our
    men sang 'Tipperary.'"--The Times.

We fear the proceedings were not so harmonious as we had been led to suppose.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "GENTLEMAN'S SHOOTING ESTATE for Sale, 240 acres, or would Let
    on Lease; near London Bridge."--Advt. in "The Standard."

Shooting the arches is splendid sport.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "2.45 A.M.--When Grossmith lit a cigarette someone said, 'This
    is all right. We bring a civilian here, and he lights up within
    hailing distance of the Germans.'

    2.46 P.M.--Grossmith put out his cigarette."--Daily Mirror.

Now that tobacco is going up again it would be a boon to smokers if Mr. GROSSMITH would tell
us how he keeps a cigarette going for twelve hours.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The fire which broke out at Bergen on Saturday was mastered by
    three o'clock on Sunday morning. About 400 buildings, mostly
    very valuable property, were destroyed. The value of the houses
    which were burnt down is about £1,111,111, and the total damage
    is estimated at £5,555,555."--Edinburgh Evening News.

The exactitude of these figures would convince even an insurance company.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PLEA OF THE HOMELESS.

Most of the petitions from natives which find their way into print for the removal of the white
man's gravity hail from our Indian Empire. But the Babu's monopoly can be assailed. The following
recent and genuine example is from West Africa:--

    "To Sir ---- ----, Commander of the New Work Shops.

    "Sir, read to the end!

    "DEAR BRITISH COMMANDER OF INFLUENCE,--I am with cordial
    gratitude to put this pen before you, saying since I came down
    from my native land I had been trie for a house, even by
    rentable, but none for me in that village, where I lieve still.
    But a certain friend of mine do advice me to stay with him,
    during the last December up to now. And yet that young man's
    wife has come from his native land, with these there is no room
    before me at all. Therefore I wish with my lowly voice to beg
    your honour to find me even a half house of your kitchen at any
    place where you like, or either the same place where I am. By
    your own desire. Please Sir if not! try and get me a boards such
    as a glass packing cases and a few planks for poles. But Sir I
    know myself very well, that it will be very difficulty before
    you, simple because you have none of carpenters. Therefore do
    try by your own authority to supply me those boards and planks,
    and I shall find myself a joiner as a day contract to build it
    for me! because my elder brother also shall help. Therefore dear
    Lord I hope you shall give ear for my lowly speak and then have
    mercy on your meekly servant with good reply. I have the most
    honour to be Sir

    "Your humble Clerk."

       *       *       *       *       *

FOR "INELIGIBLES" ONLY.

    "WANTED, Bricklayers for pointing 12 houses at Belvedere;
    peacework."--Provincial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

COMMERCIAL MODESTY.

      "M. JACOB & CO.,
  CONFECTIONER AND GLACIER.
      Pastry of sorts."

              Madras Mail.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ZEAL OF THE CONVERT.

Sir THOMAS WHITTAKER, M.P., as reported by The Yorkshire Evening Post:

    "Objection to compulsion on principle was all nonsense.
    Compulsion was the only safe-guard we had against anarchy,
    barbarism, law, order, justice, and freedom."

       *       *       *       *       *

CROMWELLIANA.

    "On Friday last a centenarian passed away at Whithall, Galway,
    in the person of Mrs. Catherine Hynes, who had attained the
    remarkable age of 102. The old lady had a remarkably retentive
    memory, recalling with ease incidents which occurred three
    generations ago. Her recollection of Cromwell's campaign was
    particularly clear."--Connacht Tribune.

    "The other alien peer is the twelfth Viscount Taaffe, of the
    Irish peerage, an Austrian subject, as his predecessors have
    been since their estates were confiscated by Cromwell after the
    Battle of the Boyne."--Sunday Times.

The late Mrs. HYNES was perhaps the authority for this statement.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "ALLIES' WARSHIPS KEEP TURKS ON TENDER HOOKS AT
    GALLIPOLI."--Express and Echo (Exeter).

This is rather hard on the enemy, who thought the Allies had taken their hook long ago.

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE FRONT.

Home again! The base softened its heart on the very morning on which I had practically decided
to attend a parade next day if I were called in time, and released me with an enormous command
to conduct to the War. I told the senior N.C.O. at the station of entrainment that I would
regard him as personally responsible if he dropped any of the men on the line or under the
engine on the way up, and was just off to look for food when the R.T.O. told me the train was
due out in two minutes. After making quite sure that he wasn't a Major I reminded him that
for that matter the War had been due to be over last September; also that I had used some of
his trains before and that he couldn't teach me two-pennyworth about them I hadn't known from
childhood. This I said courteously but firmly, and thereafter felt better and bought eight
boiled eggs, a ham sandwich made so hastily that the ham came to be altogether omitted, three
oranges, and a large mineral-water. The train was in the station for three-quarters-of-an-hour
after I returned. I passed the time pleasantly by walking up and down in front of the R.T.O.

And now I am here. Glory apart, I could think for a long time without hitting on anywhere beastlier
to be except perhaps just the other side of a breastwork thirty yards off where the Bosch has
been dropping heavy crumps in threes with monotonous regularity since an indecent hour this
morning. I have been partly asleep, partly waiting for one to drop thirty yards short. There
is no one to talk to except a chaffinch, who thinks of nothing but his appearance. If I thought
of mine I should go mad. I am wet under and through and over everything--wet, not with rain,
but with mud. You have heard that there is mud in Flanders?

But the worst part really is the number of hours in a day; we have as many as ten nowadays
in which movement is simply not done. Where dawn finds you, dusk releases you. That is here;
I believe we have some real trenches somewhere behind. But we of the ten hours' stretch run
out of employment early in the morning and remain there the rest of the day. Of course you
can eat--if your rations really came up last night--but not, I think, continuously for ten
hours. A very inferior officer--not I--has invented a recipe for the ten-hour day which may
appeal to some similarly loose-ended officer. You take an air-pillow and lie with your gum-booted
feet on it till the position becomes intolerable; then you remove the pillow, sit up and pick
the mud off it. When it's clean you do the same thing again. One tour of this duty will take
an hour if you are conscientious. Its inventor claims that it makes the sun fairly bustle down
the sky.

There are advantages in solitary feeding. Haven't you ever wanted, when confronted with a lunch
tongue, to hack out all the nice tonguey bits for yourself and leave the bully beef parts to
be used for soup or some other domestic economy? Well, I hack out the tonguey bits every day.
True, I usually have to eat the bully beef parts next meal, but--à la guerre comme à la guerre--I
always might have been casualtied between meals, and then think what a fool I'd feel over my
failure to make the most of the first.

I've come to the conclusion that this Army isn't really fair. Some regiments I've met always
seem to be doing three weeks' rest down Boulogne or Nice or somewhere like that. Thrice and
four times have I come and come back to this battalion, and every blessed time they've been
either in trenches when I arrived, or situated directly behind the trenches and going up, it
might be, to make some more.

Sometimes we go up to dig, sometimes to carry, sometimes both. On the night of my re-arrival
I went up with the digging party, and have the honour to report the following conversation
between a certain one of our diggers and a friend who loomed up carrying about four engineer
dug-outs, two coils of barbed wire, and a maul. You could just make out the man under it all
as he stumbled erratically along a mud-ridden track.

"'Ello, Steve," says the digger, "wot's yer game to-night?"

Steve stopped for a second to look at his interrogator and then observed genially as he moved on,

"Oh, just killin' time, you know."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TERCENTENARY TWITTERINGS.

The letters that follow are only a small selection from those that have been inadvertently
forwarded to us in response to the appeal of The Westminster Gazette for suggestions as to
the most appropriate method of celebrating SHAKSPEARE'S tercentenary:--

A HINT TO GREATER BRITAIN.

The name of the new capital of the Australian Commonwealth is not irrevocably fixed, and it
seems to me that a splendid opportunity is now offered our brethren overseas to commemorate
the genius of the foremost British man of letters by linking his name with the new Antipodean
metropolis. I should not venture to dictate the exact form which it should take, but "Willshake"
seems to me to meet the requirements of the case very happily, though the claims of "Avonbard"
also deserve consideration.

                                            PHILLIBERT HARKER.

BIRD AND BARD.

As SHAKSPEARE overtopped all other men, so should his memorial tower over all other monuments.
I cannot help thinking that the re-erection of the Wembley Tower in the form of a gigantic
swan soaring into the empyrean to the height of say two or three thousand feet would prove
a satisfactory solution of the problem. Whether it should be black or white is a question which
might be referred to a small committee of experts, such as Sir SIDNEY LEE, Sir HERBERT TREE
and Miss MARIE CORELLI.

                                            MILE END.

P.S.--A good alternative method of celebrating the tercentenary of SHAKSPEARE would be the
execution on Shakspeare Cliff, at Dover, of a colossal portrait of the immortal dramatist,
somewhat on the scale of the famous "White Horse." Once the outline had been marked out by
a competent artist the rest of the work could be easily completed gratis by the Volunteers,
and the total cost would be negligible.

A FRUGAL SUGGESTION.

I venture to think that no better way of paying homage to the genius of SHAKSPEARE could be
devised than for all the newspapers throughout the country to devote their best pages on the
day to suitable extracts from his works. This arrangement has the extra inducement of being
economical as well as appropriate.

                                            REGINALD JOBSON,
                                            Registrar in Bankruptcy.

A GREAT SCIENTIST SPEAKS OUT.

What we want is to convert SHAKSPEARE into a genuine educational instrument, and that is impossible
so long as he is only available in his present archaic form. A new edition of the Plays, purged
of their classicism and romanticism and expressed in language of scientific accuracy, is peremptorily
demanded in the interests of national efficiency.

                                            X. RAY, F.R.S.

A FASTIDIOUS CRITIC.

You ask me, "What are my own personal plans in connection with the anniversary?" It is on record
that a very distinguished divine stayed in bed on the day following the announcement of the
death of Lord BEACONSFIELD, so as to avoid the horrid temptation of reading what was said about
him in the newspaper, which was the divine's pet aversion. I propose to follow this excellent
example on Shakspeare Day.

                                            T. H.

AMERICA'S GREATEST POET SENDS GREETING.

  From across the stormy ocean,
  Prompted by a deep emotion,
    I despatch my salutation on a card;
  For although I cannot meet thee
  In the flesh, I still can greet thee,
    WILLIAM SHAKSPEARE, as a worthy brother bard.

  In these times of stress and passion,
  When the sword is all the fashion,
    Only minstrelsy can keep the world in tune;
  For the poet is a healer,
  And both WILL and ELLA WHEELER
    Are a blessing and a comfort and a boon.

A CEMETERIAL CELEBRATION.

No memorial to SHAKSPEARE can be adequate which does not express in some concrete shape the
universality of his appeal. This end might be attained by erecting a cenotaph in his honour
in every churchyard and cemetery in England. I admit that such a scheme would cost money and
so might be contrary to the spirit of economy which ought to animate everyone at this hour.
But a beginning might be made even now, and I have composed a Funeral March in Hamlet the proceeds
of which I would gladly devote to the purpose,

                                            ALGERNON BROOKWOOD.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A SHORT WAY WITH LECTURERS.

    "To-morrow the Central Methodist Mission will celebrate the
    anniversary of its rescue and social work. The Sisters of the
    people are to take part in the morning service, and in the
    afternoon Mr. ---- is killed for an address on 'The Social
    Outlook.'"--Sydney Daily Telegraph.

       *       *       *       *       *

The KAISER to FERDINAND:--

    "I have begged your Majesty to accept the dignity of Prussian
    Field-Marshal, and I am with my Amy happy that you, by accepting
    it also in this sense, have become one of us."--Irish Paper.

GERMAN EMPRESS, to her husband: "And who is Amy?"

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"PLEASE HELP EMILY."

The date at which Emily needed so much assistance was clearly ante bellum, for there is no
mention of hostilities, no gun-fire is heard from the direction of Westende, and Belgium is
still bathing. But it must have been only just before the War, for the emancipation which the
female sex here enjoys is marked by an extreme modernity. A decade or two ago we might have
been shocked at the spectacle of a young lady turning up at a bachelor's flat at 9 A.M. on
a Sunday in a ball-frock, after a night out at a dancing-club. Lately we have learnt to bear
such escapades without flinching. But it was not so with Emily's guardian, Sir Samuel Lethbridge,
very Victorian in his stuffy prejudice in favour of the decencies; and it was necessary to
put him off with a tale of her sudden departure to Brussels to render first aid to an aunt
stricken with mumps. In order to give colour to this fabrication Emily urges Dick Trotter,
the bachelor of the flat (as soon as he returns from his own night out), to conduct her to
the alleged invalid. He consents, but not without protest, for he is a roué of the old school
and cannot approve of these platonic adventures; besides, he is about to se ranger by marriage
with somebody else and (a matter of detail, but most inconvenient) is under contract to take
her to Brighton for the day.

A fairly preposterous start, you will say; yet the delightful naturalness which Miss GLADYS
COOPER and Mr. CHARLES HAWTREY bring to the situation gives it almost an air of possibility.
But, once we are at Ostend, and have been introduced to Trotter's incredibly inappropriate
fiancée (she is a niece of the same aunt and has followed under protection of a tame escort),
we are prepared to launch freely and fearlessly into the rough and tumble of farce.

It is in vain that Miss GLADYS COOPER, over her petit déjeuner, preserves a natural demeanour,
even to the point of talking with her mouth full; the light humour of the First Act declines
to the verge of buffoonery. The devastating confusions which ensue in the matter of identity
and relationship (in our author's Ostend you assume, till corrected, that all couples are married);
the intervention of the local gendarmerie, headed by a British detective; the arrest of half
the party (including the aunt, arrived in perfect health and ignorance en route for England)
on a nameless charge in connection with Emily's suspected abduction--all this is in the best
Criterion manner.

In the Third Act, though we never recover the rapture of the First, the humour touches a higher
level; but what it gains in finesse it loses in spontaneity. Here we meet Emily's father, returned
from lecturing in the States on social ethics. The scandal of his daughter's conduct leaves
him indifferent, for a long and varied experience of the morals of many lands, in the course
of which he has married as many as eighteen wives, having made a point of adopting for the
time being the system--polygamous or other--of the country in which he happens to find himself,
has taught him that nothing is right or wrong except as local opinion makes it so. We are allowed
to gather that heredity may have had some influence in the moulding of Emily's character; and
if we may hope for its continuance into the next generation there seems every prospect that
the children she may bear to Trotter (now released from Julia and free to marry the right woman)
will not have their development hampered by excess of prudery.

Mr. CHARLES HAWTREY as Trotter played with his old easy skill and seemed to take a more than
usual interest in the play. He was supported (as they say) by a particularly brilliant cast,
including Miss LOTTIE VENNE as the aunt, Mr. ERIC LEWIS as Emily's father, Mr. FREDERICK KERR
as Sir Samuel, Miss HELEN HAYE in the thankless part of Julia, and Mr. NIGEL PLAYFAIR as a
self-effacing phantom of a lover. All were in great form; but, next to Miss GLADYS COOPER,
whose natural charm and ingenuous espièglerie were a perpetual delight, I offer my profoundest
compliments to the short but extraordinarily clever performance of Mr. H. R. HIGNETT as Trotter's
man Francis. This is the day of stage valets, but he was an exceptional treasure. To a quiet
taste for philosophy he added an infinite tact; and by the lies which he poured into the telephone
to cover his master's breach of engagement to Julia he moved Emily, herself a gifted artist,
to admiration.

The author, Mr. H. M. HARWOOD, must be congratulated on a farce that at its best was really
excellent fun. And he may take it for flattery, if he likes, when I say that a good deal of
his dialogue might be adapted into the French without offending our gallant Allies on the ground
of a too insular squeamishness. O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INDURATION.

  Think not, dear love, because my cheek
    With grief grows neither grey nor hollow,
  Because no pharmacist I seek
    In quest of arsenic to swallow,
  Because I do not wince and weep
    By day and night for cardiac pains,
  That my fond passion falls on sleep,
    Or, secondly, my worship wanes.

  For these are strenuous days of strife
    That steel the soul of every Briton;
  Sterner and stronger grows our life
    Till simple bards become hard-bitten;
  So when, each Thursday, I propose
    (As usual) to wed my fair,
  I frankly find her changeless "No's"
    Not half so poignant as they were.

       *       *       *       *       *

From an almanack of appropriate quotations:--

          "JANUARY 27.
            Thursday.
    German Emperor born, 1859.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "If men well up in years would cultivate a habit of breathing
    properly and always holding themselves erect when walking and
    sitting, we would find fewer elderly people bent double when we
    do."--Daily Express.

Our gay contemporary has been caught bending on this occasion.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "He asked the Government not to muzzle the ox that laid golden
    eggs."--The Daily Argosy (Demerara).

It wasn't really an ox; it was a bull.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a country retail chemist's appeal to the Local Tribunal for his son's exemption from Military
Service:

"I cannot dispense with him"--or, presumably, without him.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

When Hargrave Ladd, who was a solicitor in a very fair way of business, with an agreeable but
unemotional wife, happened to be getting into an omnibus at the moment when Stella Rayne fell
off the top of it, he unconsciously put himself in the way of a lot of bother. Naturally, as
a gentleman and the male protagonist of a novel--Let Be (METHUEN)--he could do no less than
pick the girl out of the mud and see her home in a cab. Whether, quite strictly speaking, he
need have called next day to see how she was getting over the accident is another matter. Certainly
his interfering aunt, Mrs. Dering, was of the opinion that Hargrave, as a married man, was
displaying an excess of courtesy towards the pretty tumbler. As for Miss SYBIL CAMPBELL LETHBRIDGE,
who has written the tale, she gives no indication of her views one way or the other. Indeed
this attitude of humorous tolerance for humanity is Miss LETHBRIDGE'S most striking characteristic.
It is at once a source of strength and weakness to the book, making, on the one hand, for the
reality of the characters, and, on the other, for a certain non-conductiveness of atmosphere
that robs their emotions of warmth. Anyhow, the inevitable happens, and Hargrave falls in love
with Stella, who in turn reciprocates his passion up to almost the last page in the book, when,
having come to the edge of the precipice and made every preparation for her leap into the gulf
of elopement, she does a mental quick-change and walks away as the contented betrothed of Another.
So Hargrave, making the best of a good job, rejoins Mrs. H.; and one may suppose that, if any
more distressed damsels fall off omnibuses in his presence, he will prudently "let be." You
may think with me that this abrupt finish lessens the effect of an otherwise well-written and
entertaining story.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss MURIEL HINE in The Individual (LANE), essaying a problem novel, does not disdain the old-fashioned
way of the woven plot and the dramatic incident. Her hero, Orde Taverner, surgeon by trade
and eugenist by profession, falls in love with Elizma, a Cornish beauty and rare fiddler. His
inquiries as to her eugenical fitness having been answered satisfactorily but inaccurately,
he marries, to find that Elizma's mother really died insane. His principles conquer his desire
for children, and his decision is communicated to the fiery Elizma, who, fierce maternalist
that she is and coming of a wild stock that never stuck at anything, undertakes a desperate
flirtation by way of solving the difficulty in her own heroic way--at least you will certainly
make this kind of a guess, but on investigation you may find that you've been wrong! Happily
in the end a deathbed confession proves the second version of her birth as inaccurate as the
first. She really comes of quite untainted stock, so the eugenist is satisfied and husband
and wife reconciled. That is to say the author runs away from her problem, which was perhaps,
all things considered, the wisest thing to do. She has some eye for character and has made
a good thing of her Elizma, but has let herself scatter her energies over a team too large
to be driven with a sure hand. And why, oh why did she drag in the War? Or call her butler
Puffles? But she keeps the interest of her story going, and you mustn't skip or you may be
set off on a hopelessly wrong tack.

       *       *       *       *       *

So great is my admiration for the humorous gifts of Mr. WILLIAM CAINE and so strong my gratitude
to him for such books as Boom and Old Enough to Know Better, that I have decided to erase from
my memory with all possible speed his latest effort, Bildad the Quill-Driver (LANE.) A man
with so many bull's-eyes to his credit may be forgiven an occasional miss; and, to be candid,
Bildad the Quill-Driver seems to me to come nowhere near the target. Most of Mr. CAINE'S work
would be the better for a certain amount of condensation, but this is the only occasion on
which he has really lost control of his pen. He has had the unfortunate idea of writing a comic
Arabian Nights in close imitation of the style of the original translation, even to the insertion
of short poems at every possible opportunity. Now, this is one of those ideas which at first
blush would seem to contain all the elements of delightful humour; but it has the deadly flaw
that it involves a monotony which becomes after a few pages more than irritating. For a while
the novelty is entertaining, and then the reader becomes crushed by the realisation that he
has got to rely for his amusement on the same sort of joke repeated over and over again for
more than three hundred pages. And, once that happens, the doom of the book is sealed, for
the adventures of Bildad are not in themselves diverting--his love-affair with the giantess
is as unfunny a thing as ever I yawned over--and if you cease to chuckle at the burlesque pomposity
of the style there is nothing left. There are some things which do not lend themselves to sustained
parody, and the manner of the Arabian Nights is one of them. But, as I say, I am not going
to allow this book to shake my opinion that Mr. CAINE is one of our most engaging humorists.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

I recommend, absolutely without reserve, a war book entitled Day by Day with the Russian Army
(CONSTABLE). It is written by Professor BERNARD PARES, the Official British Observer with the
Russian Armies in the Field, and is the real thing. Although incidentally it is to be praised
as a modest and lucid piece of writing, well in keeping with the character of an author whose
habit of viewing an action from the most dangerous, because the most interesting, point can
be discovered only by reading between the lines, primarily it is to be prescribed as a sovereign
tonic against German-made depression. The writer, after being present at the conquest of Galicia
and the triumphant advance to the top of the Carpathians, after witnessing much of the historical
Russian retreat under pressure of overwhelming artillery superiority, and after conversing
freely with his friends of all ranks on different sectors of the Front whilst offering greetings
in the name of their English comrades in arms, announces finally, in a wholly satisfactory
fashion, his unalterable conviction as to the unqualified supremacy of our Allies when on anything
like equal terms with their opponents as regards munitions of war. And that is a matter which,
though never in doubt, it is pleasant to hear again in tones of authority at a time when we
believe the Russian lack of supplies is at last being made good. The evidence is the more complete
because not only do we learn of the interrogation of many prisoners, but because a long extract
from the diary of one of them, an Austrian officer, is included, to point the difference in
spirit between the two armies. The demoralisation of the Austrian forces, even when advancing,
is so strikingly presented that one cannot doubt their dependence on German domination and
German batteries to hold them together at all. Although Professor PARES attaches several excellent
maps, he is not really much concerned with questions of strategy, but has devoted himself to
just two points--moral and munitions.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am afraid that Mrs. HODGSON BURNETT is in a little danger of overdoing it. She knows (who
better?) the briskness of the popular demand for long-lost heirs; and she may well have argued
that the longer he has been lost, the more squalid his present environment, and the more brilliant
his heritage, the more assured would be the heir's welcome. Perhaps indeed this may be so in
America; but for this side, as I say, I have my doubts. I daresay your own intuition will tell
you that the hero of The Lost Prince (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) is a prince who has been lost.
In fact so effectually had the branch of the regal house to which Prince Ivor belonged been
mislaid that the story opens upon him dwelling in a London slum with no companions but a mysterious
father and a crippled playfellow (called The Rat). All sorts of mysterious things are constantly
happening just out of sight; and presently the dynastic intrigues of Mrs. BURNETT launch the
two boys upon a secret journey through Europe, to convey to a number of pleasantly melodramatic
conspirators the message that "The Lamp is Lighted!" As their object is expressly stated to
be protection for a small principality, the fact that the interviews include one with Emperor
of AUSTRIA has in these days a quaintly anachronistic effect, and at least serves to emphasise
the neutral origin of the story. However, they are of course successful; and in the last chapter
Prince Ivor manages to be enormously astonished at finding that the mysterious monarch of Samavia,
for whom he has been working, is none other than his own father--an obvious fact that, with
truly royal tactfulness, he had contrived to ignore throughout the story. My advice to the
author is to write up her villains (at present they haven't a chance) and make the whole thing
into a film play. The wanderings of the two boys offer a fine opportunity for scenic variety;
while the sentiment is of precisely the nature to be stimulated by a pianoforte accompaniment.
As a three-reel exclusive, in short, I can fancy The Lost Prince entering triumphantly into
his appropriate kingdom.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "UNFURNISHED ROOM to Let in Clyde Road; quiet house; convenience
    for washing once a week if necessary; rent 3s."--Hastings and
    St. Leonards Observer.

It sounds dirt-cheap.

