The situation of the greens having been decided upon, the question as to the length of the
holes, as to which some general impression will already have been formed, comes up for decision.
A proposed teeing ground should be selected for each hole, the lengths of the holes then examined
and compared, and the tees moved nearer or further back as seems desirable for the improvement
of individual holes or the increase of variety. If at this stage there is any chance of finding
a ball afterwards, it is a good thing to drive a few from each tee and play them with the brassy,
cleek, irons, or mashie up to the green. If you drive half a dozen from each tee and play them
through the green to the place where the holes will be, there will surely be one or two that
have turned out excellently if you are a player of any skill whatever, and a study of the strokes
which have been applied to these one or two, the point of pitching, and the final lie, will
reveal the entire character of the hole you are making, and tell you plainly how it must be
bunkered. In a nine-hole course I think there should be seven medium or long holes, and two
short ones to break the monotony and test the golfer at all points. The situation of these
short holes in the round will naturally be decided to a large extent by the land and other
circumstances, but when the power of selection is left to the designer, I incline to the belief
that Nos. 3 and 7 are the best for these dainties. I like a short hole to come early in the
round, as at No. 3, because then a golfer who has made a bad start is given a chance of recovering
before he is hopelessly out of the hunt. He has a better prospect of making such a recovery
(or thinks he has, which is much the same thing) at a short hole than at a long one, and, being
put in a good temper again, he will very likely go on very well for the next two or three,
when he will be favoured with another short one. The plight of the player who has discovered
at the beginning of a medal round that he is off his drive and brassy, and that six or seven
holes have to be played before a little one is reached, is certainly not pleasant. I call a
good short hole one that can be reached by good play at any time with an iron club, because
it fails to be a short hole when it is necessary to take wood upon the tee in order to get
to the green. In an eighteen-hole course you might have three or four short holes--I think
three are sufficient--and it would be well to vary their length so as to test the capacity
of the golfer with different clubs, and to bring out all his qualities of resource. For a fourth
hole on the short side plenty of sporting chance would constantly be afforded by one of 200
yards length. This could not be called a short hole, because under ordinary circumstances and
on most days it would be too far for even a good driver to reach from the tee, but he would
often be tempted to nerve himself to a superior effort, and an occasional strain of this kind
is advantageous in the long run. Besides, when the wind was at his back he would frequently
be successful, and on such occasions he would experience more pleasure and satisfaction from
this particular tee shot than from any other of the whole round.

The remainder of the course should be made up of a variety of two-shot and three-shot holes.
The lengths should be varied as much as possible, and with limits of 370 yards, and, say, 530
to work between, it should surely not be so difficult as it appears to have been in so many
cases of inland links to get fourteen or fifteen quite different holes. Those of from 230 to
330 yards, with which so many courses abound, are not good holes in my opinion, because they
give an almost equal chance to the man who has driven well and the man who has driven badly.
Take a common sort of hole, 280 yards in length. A player misses his drive, and his ball travels
only for, say, 100 or 120 yards. He may still reach the green with his brassy, and should be
able to do so. Now the man who drove well at this hole would need to make a second stroke with
an iron club to reach the green, and would thus gain nothing from his better play. This is
unfair, and what is unfair is bad. The good two-shot hole is one of the nicest and best holes
on a course when it is really good. Its length is about 370 to 380 yards. Thus it will be perceived
that a first-class drive from the tee must be followed up by a fine second, as straight as
it is long, if the green is to be reached. The good player who has done all that he ought is
thus rewarded by the clear gain of a stroke and the capture of a hole in 4, whilst the man
who is a trifle weak with either his drive or his second, or has faltered to the slightest
extent at either stroke, has for a certainty to use his mashie before he can call for the putter.
When a two-shot hole is to be adjusted to this nicety of perfection, there is plainly not much
margin for the variation of its length; but it is not necessary, nor is it even desirable,
to demand continually such unerring skill from the golfer. My idea of a good three-shot hole
is one that stretches for 500 to 530 yards, three fine shots being wanted. For holes of much
greater length than this I have no fancy. Perhaps no serious objection can be laid against
an occasional hole of 550 yards length, but what is really gained by such long journeys? Certainly
the true skill of the golfer is not being more severely tested. When we come to such monstrosities
as holes of 600 yards in length, it is time to call out "Enough!" for by this time we have
descended to slogging pure and simple, and the hard field work at which an agricultural labourer
would have the right to grumble. So I repeat that the best hole for golfing is that good two-shotter
which takes the ball from the tee to the green in two well-played strokes without any actual
pressing. As for total length, it should be borne in mind that a links over 6000 yards long
is considered a long one, and that there are championship greens, Prestwick and Muirfield,
which are (or were until quite recently; there is a tendency to stretch everywhere since the
rubber-cored ball became predominant) shorter than 6000 yards.

In making the plan of the course, a point of interest and importance to decide upon is the
direction in which the holes shall be played. Some golfers prefer that the first and succeeding
holes shall lie to the right of the starting-point, while others like best to go out on the
left-hand side, that is, to play round the course in the same direction as that pursued by
the hands of a clock. It is largely a matter of fancy, but personally my choice is for going
out to the left because I think in this case the holes are generally more difficult, and the
boundary usually being near to the left, constant precautions must be taken against pulling.
Another matter particularly to be remembered is that the first tee and the last green should
be close together, and neither of them more distant from the club-house than is necessary.
A wide separation of these points always seems to be contrary to the proper order of things.

And now we come to the perplexing problem of bunkers and where to place them, and in this connection
I would remark that it would be well not to regard the lengths of the holes, as so far arranged,
as final and irrevocable, and not to establish permanent teeing grounds accordingly, for it
must necessarily happen, as the bunkers come to be formed on the course, and more trial rounds
are played, that one's ideas will undergo considerable change, and it is easier to lengthen
a hole at this stage of the proceedings, by simply placing the tee further back, than it will
be afterwards.

It has been a great question with some committees of newly-established clubs or of older ones
in search of new courses, as to whether, in laying out their greens and settling upon the location
of all their nice new bunkers, they should keep more particularly in mind the excellences of
the scratch player or the trials and troubles of the 12 to 18 handicap men. On the one hand,
the scratch player is the experienced golfer, the man who plays the true game as it should
be played, and who finds no real enjoyment in so-called golf wherein he is never called upon
to do more than tap the ball over an obstacle ninety or a hundred yards in front. Such links
never put up a fight against him, and he finishes his listless round with something as near
to the sense of weariness as it is possible for the golfer ever to experience. But these scratch
players, in common with the men with all handicaps up to 5 or 6, are in a very heavy and hopeless
minority in most clubs to-day. The bulk of the membership is made up of players of from 6 to
24, with a concentration of forces between 12 and 18. These men say, or at all events think,
that as they run the club they have a right to be considered, and in their hearts the committee
believe that they are justified. These men with long handicaps--some of whom have not even
a desire to reduce them to any considerable extent, deriving the utmost pleasure in playing
the game in their own way--can find no fun in being always and inevitably in the same bunkers,
and regard driving from a tee, when they are either obliged to play short deliberately with
an iron or be bunkered for a certainty with their driver, as the most dismal occupation with
which a Saturday or Sunday sportsman could ever be afflicted. Therefore they cry loudly for
shorter carries. They say the others are not fair, and from their particular point of view
the remark is possibly justified. Even the young golfer who is determined to be a scratch man
some day, though he is eighteen strokes from that pinnacle of excellence as yet, becomes rather
tired in the long run of finding constant punishment waiting upon his valiant attempts to drive
his longest ball, and thinks the committee should be reminded that there are others in the
world besides the immediately coming champions. Amidst these conflicting desires, committees
and course designers appear frequently to have attempted a compromise with no particular satisfaction
to anybody. It is impossible to lay out a course to suit all the different players in a club,
and my own most decided opinion is that the bunkers and other hazards should always be placed
to test the game of the scratch player, and not that of the handicap man. A course that is
laid out for the latter very often inflicts severe punishment on the scratch player, and it
is surely hard that the man who has spent many years in the most patient and painstaking practice
should be deliberately treated in this manner when the comparative novice is allowed to go
scot free. Moreover, when a bunker is so placed that a long carry is needed from the tee, the
handicap man will find his game much improved by playing on the course. At first he finds he
cannot carry the hazard, and for a little while contents himself with playing short. But he
soon tires of this timidity, takes more pains with his strokes, braces himself up to bigger
efforts, and at last the day comes when his ball goes sailing over the obstruction. Afterwards
the performance is repeated quite easily, and the views of one man as to the unfairness of
that particular carry have undergone a radical change. It is better for the beginner that he
should have a hard course to play over than an easy one, and, much as he may grumble at the
beginning, he will in the end be thankful to those who imposed a severe experience upon him
in his early days as a golfer.

Therefore, if it is decided that there must be a bunker in the centre of the course in the
line of the drive, I suggest that it should be placed at a distance of about 130 to 145 yards
from the tee. The second bunker, if there is to be another stretching across the course with
a view to imposing difficulties on second shots or guarding the green, should be rather less
than this distance from the first, so that the man who has topped his drive and is short of
the first hazard should still have a chance of clearing the next one with his second shot.
Recovery ought never to be impossible. But really I am no believer at all in bunkers placed
across the course. Certainly let there be one in front of the tee to catch the bad drive, and
another to guard the green; but, generally speaking, the merely short ball carries its own
punishment with it in the distance that has been lost and has to be made good again. The straight
driver is not the man to be punished. It is the player who slices and pulls and has obviously
little command over his club and the ball, and who has taken no pains to master the intricate
technique of the drive, for whose careless shots traps should be laid. As often as not the
bunker in the centre of the course lets off the ball with a bad slice or pull on it. So I say
that bunkers should be placed down both sides of the course, and they may be as numerous and
as difficult as the controlling authority likes to make them. But hazards of any description
should be amongst the last features to be added to a newly-made golf links. Not until the course
has been played over many times under different conditions, and particularly in different winds,
can anyone properly determine which is the true place for a hazard to be made. At the beginning
it may have been placed elsewhere in a hurry, and it may have seemed on a few trials to answer
its purpose admirably, but another day under different conditions it may be made clear that
it is in the very place where it will catch a thoroughly good shot and allow only a bad one
to escape. I would not have insisted so much on this need for deliberation and patience, if
it did not so often happen that as the result of placing the hazards on a new course in too
much haste, they are found afterwards to be altogether wrong and have to be moved, with the
waste of much time and money.

There is little to the point that I can say about the making of the putting greens, as so much
depends upon the natural conditions and opportunities. Sometimes there is nothing to do but
to cut the grass short and pass the roller over it a few times and the green is made, and a
first-class green too. At other times there is need for much digging, and the turf with which
the carpet is to be relaid may have to be carried to the spot from a considerable distance.
Particularly when so much trouble is being taken over the laying of the greens, do I beg the
makers of courses to see that they are not made dead level and as much like a billiard table
as possible, which often seems to be the chief desire. To say that a putting green is like
a billiard table is one of the worst compliments that you can pay to it. By all means let it
be true in the sense of being smooth and even, and presenting no lumps or inequalities of surface
that are not plainly visible to the eye, and the effect of which cannot be accurately gauged
by the golfer who has taught himself how to make allowances. But on far too many greens the
man with the putter has nothing to do but gauge the strength of his stroke and aim dead straight
at the hole. He derives infinitely less satisfaction from getting down a fifteen-yards putt
of this sort than does the man who has holed out at ten feet, and has estimated the rise and
fall and the sideway slope of an intervening hillock to begin with and a winding valley to
follow, his ball first of all running far away to the right, then trickling across to the left,
and finally wheeling round again and rolling into the tin. Only when there is so much calculation
to be done and it is so precisely accomplished does the golfer practise the real art of putting,
and taste the delights of this delicate part of the game. The other is dull and insipid in
comparison. There is the less excuse for making the flat and level greens, inasmuch as even
the beginners can appreciate the sporting quality of the others and enjoy practice upon them
from the first day of their play. Let there be plenty of undulations, and then with the changing
positions of the hole a player can practically never come to any particular green upon which
he may have putted hundreds of times without having a problem set him entirely different from
any that he has had to work out before. Greens, of course, are of all sizes, from fifteen to
fifty yards square, and I beg leave to remark that large size is a fault in them, inasmuch
as the bigger they are the less is the skill required in the approach shot.

It is perhaps unnecessary for me to point out as a final word, that when tees have to be specially
prepared and turfed, it is a decided improvement to a course to have two at different points
for each hole, one nearer and more to one side than the other. Not only do these alternative
tees enable each of them to be given a periodical rest for recovery from wear and tear, but
they afford an interesting variation of the play, make it possible to impose a more severe
test than usual upon the players when it is felt desirable to do so, as on competition days,
and also in some measure to counteract the effects of winds. Of course when tees have not to
be specially made there is endless variety open.

It is obvious that the greater part of the foregoing remarks applies chiefly to the construction
of inland courses. Seaside links laid over the dunes are made by Nature herself, and generally
as regards their chief features they must be taken or left as the golfer decides. A new hazard
may be thrown up here and there, but usually the part of the constructor of a seaside course
is to make proper use of those that are there ready made for him, and which are frequently
better than any that could be designed by man.

Of all the golf courses that have any pretensions to being considered first class, or even
good second class, I can call to mind very few over which I have not played a round, and at
a time when the reputations of so many of them are being severely overhauled, and their merits
and demerits criticised, some expression of my own opinions may prove interesting alike to
the golfers who know them well and to others who are looking forward with eagerness to the
enjoyment of games upon them at future holiday times. Recent championships and big matches
have resulted in such wonderful scores, that some golfers are inclined to ask despairingly
whether we have any really first-class course at all; and links which in the past have been
considered perfect are spoken of contemptuously as fit only for handicap men who want their
golf made easy. If they attach any importance to my opinion, then let them be assured that
we still have many links which come near to being perfect, and that, notwithstanding the advent
of the rubber-cored ball, there is no reason to complain about them or agitate for great alterations.
We have them in England, Scotland, and Ireland--perhaps more in Scotland than elsewhere, but
that is chiefly due to accidental circumstances.

I am constantly asked, when the discussions to which I have referred are taking place, which
in my opinion is the best course in the world. Many considerations enter into such a reckoning;
but, after making it carefully, and with full knowledge of the fact that my answer is at variance
with many of the best authorities on the game, I say Sandwich. Then let me tell you why I consider
the links of the Royal St. George's Club to be the best that are to be found anywhere. There
is, in the first place, not a single tee shot in the round where good play must not be shown
by the golfer if he wants to achieve success. There is scarcely a hole at which a player who
only half hits his ball from the tee does not find himself in grave difficulties, demanding
an unusually brilliant recovery and sterling play until he has holed out, if he is to have
any chance of getting on level terms with his opponent again, assuming that the latter is playing
the proper game. The bunkers are so placed that a good shot has to be made every time to carry
them. On the other hand, you are always satisfied that virtue is properly rewarded at Sandwich,
and that if your tee shot is hit truly and well you are certain to be nicely situated for your
second. Elementary considerations as these may appear to be, there are many courses having
the reputation of being first-class where this reward is not always so sure as it is at Sandwich.
The greens on that course are in all cases well protected, and they abound in character and
variety. Some critics say that the carries over the first bunkers from the tees are too long;
but I do not agree with them. Without being a particularly long driver, anybody who hits his
ball truly can carry any bunker at Sandwich that ought to be carried from the tee. Then at
the Championships in 1904 everybody was declaring, with much knowledge that had come after
the event, that the course was on the short side, as was proved, they said, by the phenomenal
scores that were made in the Open competition. I do not agree. The scores made by two or three
players were certainly low, but that was because they played exceptional golf. If I admit that
the course is the merest trifle on the short side in going out, I hasten to add that a man
must be playing perfect golf to get to the turn with a low score, while, unless his play does
come within these narrow limits of perfection, he may find, grand player though he be, that
he may easily run up a total for his nine holes that would look foolishly large. Coming in,
there is certainly no shortness about the holes, and there is plenty of scope for the man who
wants to open out his shoulders with his driver and his brassy, while there are hazards everywhere
for the punishment of the balls that are not kept in the fairway. These are the chief considerations
which lead me to give an emphatic vote in favour of Sandwich when I am asked which is the best
course--that is to say, the best test of golf--that is to be found in the British Isles, or
elsewhere so far as I know, and I ask to be given no more favourable opportunity of studying
a golfer's points, than to see him play a round or two over the St. George's links.

I should say that the third hole at Sandwich, although a short one, is in golfing quality one
of the best of the eighteen, because it is so splendidly protected with bunkers and rushes
everywhere, so that the player who would get on to the green from the tee does indeed need
to be bold, and as accurate as he is bold. No faintness of heart, no doubtful stroke, will
ever in the result be flattered by this third hole. The sixth or Maiden, famous everywhere,
is very fine indeed, though it is not nearly so difficult as it used to be. The eighth is another
beauty, well guarded by bunkers; a trifle on the short side if the wind is following, but a
terror in length if the breeze is coming from the green. The ninth is good. The tenth calls
for a perfect drive straight down the middle of the course, in default of which the second
shot will abound with difficulty; and at the fifteenth another very straight tee shot is wanted.
If there is a breath of wind to help the ball from the tee, a plucky player may then come to
the conclusion that he has a chance of reaching the green with his second, and a fine shot
will take him over the treacherous little bunker that guards it, giving him a 4 of which he
may be proud in the best of company. These are the gems of Sandwich.

Next to this course, I think that Prestwick with its Himalayas and its Alps is the finest that
we have. It is an excellent test to apply to a would-be champion, although there have been
complaints that this course also is short. Yet it is longer than it used to be, and it is merely
the rubber-filled ball that makes it seem short. The third hole at Prestwick is one that stirs
the soul of the dare-devil golfer, for, after he has despatched the ball safely and well from
the tee, he finds a big, gaping bunker, the famous "Cardinal," ahead of him for his second--an
ugly brute that gives a sickening feeling to the man who is off his game. Defy this bunker,
be on the green with your brassy, put a 4 on your card, and you have done something which should
make you happy for the morning. The ninth again is an excellent hole at which the straight
driver is rewarded all the way, and, if he does his duty, is given a 5. I have no hesitation
in giving my judgment that the seventeenth is the finest hole to be found on any links. I say
so because it is the best specimen of a really perfect two-shot hole. If there is the slightest
flaw in either the drive or the second stroke, all prospect of reaching the green in two vanishes
into thin air. Mr. Laidlay once lost a match and an amateur championship because his second
shot here was not quite good enough. A good tee shot well into the middle of the course, a
second that is as clean as a shot can be and as straight as a bullet from a gun, with the gods
of golf smiling approval all the way and particularly when your second is nearing the green--with
all these you may ask for your putter for the third stroke. But there is a bunker before the
green, a bunker just beyond the green, and rushes to the right and left, so that the second
shot has indeed to be a beauty for its maker to be wholly satisfied. This is the sort of hole
that all good golfers best like to play, because they know that the good shots are certain
of their reward, and that not merely the bad shots but the indifferent ones are met with just
penalties every time. It is said that no two golf strokes are ever alike, but there is just
enough similarity about them to prevent individual strokes from living very long in history
except in a few striking cases. Perhaps the most memorable shot ever played in golf was that
made at this hole by the late Mr. Fred Tait when he was engaging with Mr. John Ball, jun.,
in the final tie of the Amateur Championship in 1899. The Scottish favourite was in the bunker
guarding the green with his second, and it so happened that the bunker on this occasion was
filled with rain water, in which the ball was floating. Mr. Tait chipped the ball out beautifully
on to the green, and saved a hole which seemed a certain loss. It is hard to find many holes
that are worthy of being put in the same class as this. Man cannot make such holes. They are
there when he seeks out the land for the first time with his golf clubs.

Hoylake is a good course. There are one or two holes on it that must be admitted to be very
tame. If the land in the middle of the course which is at present out of bounds were taken
in and made playable, these holes could be much improved. The hazards are good and plentiful,
and a satisfactory premium is put upon straight play. The ninth is a nice hole, a really good
drive helping the player considerably. The eleventh is another pretty one, neither long nor
short, but just that length which a fine shot from the tee will reach, and accuracy is demanded
by the rushes which seem all over the course as you stand to drive.

I call St. Andrews a good course generally; but its bunkers are badly placed. They punish the
man who is driving well more than the man who is driving badly, for they are generally the
length of a good long drive. If this defect could be remedied, and if there were a few more
bunkers at the sides to catch the pulled and sliced balls, then St. Andrews would be a fine
links indeed. As it is, there are some excellent holes. The second is beautiful--beautiful
if the flag is put in the centre of the green--because then a good second shot is rewarded
as it ought to be. But it generally happens when big matches are being played there that the
hole is placed in a corner, which frequently spoils the prospects of these good second shots.
The seventh is good, calling for a most accurate second, and the eleventh is the finest one-shot
hole to be found anywhere. The green is on a plateau with bunkers all about it, and if you
overpitch it your ball will be in the rushes beyond. Many golfers swear by the seventeenth;
but I am not one of them. I declare that it is a very unfair hole, and there is no encouragement
here to be plucky. The player must be pawky all the way, for it is fully two to one against
there being anything but punishment as the result of bold tactics. The man who tries to place
his long shot on the green may try again and again, and he will be convinced that it is next
to impossible to stop there when he reaches it.

For some reasons I like Muirfield; but it does not enjoy so many advantages as the other championship
courses. There are not so many sandhills. It is on the flat side, and at the first glance you
might take it to be an inland course; but after a single round you are greatly impressed by
the good golf that is to be obtained upon it. The turf is capital, some of the hazards are
very fine, and on the whole I think it may fairly be regarded as a very good championship test
of golf. The fourth, twelfth, and eighteenth holes all call for first-class seconds if the
greens are to be reached.

There are so many other good links in the north that a further selection becomes increasingly
difficult. Troon, abounding in sandhills, is very fine, and the player needs to be very skilful
to get round it in a low score. North Berwick is also good, and it is surprising to see how
well the links are preserved considering the enormous amount of play to which they are subjected.
There are many good holes at popular Carnoustie, with a fine length about them which calls
for good brassy play, and which is calculated to bring out all the good points that a golfer
has in him. Cruden Bay and Dornoch are enjoyable; but those who want to get the best golf in
Scotland need not always go to those places that revel in reputation and where an inconvenient
crowd may at most times be depended upon. Some of the gems of North Britain are hidden away
in inaccessible corners, and the golfers who would reach them must make tedious journeys by
land and sea. But he who is worthy of the game is in my opinion amply rewarded for these travelling
labours, by the quality of the golf that is vouchsafed to him at his journey's end, and he
is spared the annoyance of being obliged to book his starting time overnight and of having
a couple of hours to wait upon the tee if he is a minute late in the morning. I believe that
Machrihanish is one of these very fine but out-of-the-way courses, but it happens to be one
over which I have not hitherto played. I can tell of another where the most glorious golf is
to be obtained, and which I can strongly recommend to those on the lookout for a place at which
to spend a golfing holiday. It is at Islay. There the air is grand, there is excellent accommodation
to be obtained at the combined hotel and club-house, and as for the quality of the golf I do
not hesitate to say that the course is in every respect fit for the championships to be decided
upon it. There is one hole here, the third, which is the most difficult anyone can imagine.
If I were asked to select one from all the thousands of holes that I have played in my time,
I should pick this one out for difficulty. They call it Mount Zion, and I think it is a good
name for it. You must make three very good shots to reach the green, and in the matter of accuracy
the third needs to be a gem if any satisfaction whatever is to be got out of the whole business.
The green is on a plateau, and it is protected by every contrivance that ingenious Nature has
vouchsafed to the makers of courses. If you are short you are in a running stream; if you pull
you go out of bounds; and if your ball trickles over the green, away it goes into the sea--tortures
the most terrible for the erring ball. Yes, decidedly I think this is the hardest hole I have
ever seen. The first time I played it I took 10 to hole out, and yet won it from a very fine
professional player who is an ex-champion! I have never done a hole better in my life than
when I once halved this with Taylor in 4 in the course of a match which Taylor won at the twenty-fourth
hole. The seventh is also a very fine hole with a bunker in front of the tee, which is very
similar to the Maiden at Sandwich. An old golfer who lives there told me he can remember the
time when it was a rabbit scrape. Like all golfers who know them, I sing the praises of Gullane,
Kilspindie, and Luffness.

There is a variety of good golf to be obtained in Ireland also. Portrush, Portmarnock, Dollymount,
Lahinch, and Newcastle (co. Down)--all these are fine links. For a place to visit for an enjoyable
golfing holiday, when health is a governing consideration also, I should select Portrush as
one of the very best, while golfers who wish to play at Portmarnock and elect to put up in
a Dublin hotel have an experience of pleasant variety which I at all events have found very
agreeable, for you have first the train, then the car, and last of all the boat to take in
order to reach the course, and not an inch of the journey is wearisome. Of course this proceeding
cannot be recommended to those golfers who prefer to sleep in close proximity to the first
tee, regardless of all other pleasures that are to be obtained without any sacrifice of the
game. The course I like best in Wales is that at Ashburnham, over which the Welsh Championship
was last played for. It is one of those excellent natural links which require very little attention.
The Royal St. David's course at Harlech is also very good.

Coming back to England again, I agree with all others that splendid golf is to be obtained
at Westward Ho! although there is one quite unique feature of this course of which some golfers,
myself among the number, do not bear the pleasantest recollections. I refer, of course, to
the rushes of a peculiar growth which are to be found there in such abundance. I can conceive
no nightmare more horrible to a player than one in which during his hours of troubled sleep
he is in imagination vainly trying to rescue his unhappy ball from the clutches of these famous
rushes. They stand full five feet high, strong and stiff like stout twigs, and they have sharp
and dangerous points which seem as if they might be made of tempered steel. A kind of blossom
appears on them in the season as if to disguise their evil features. Any player who is unlucky
enough to put his ball into them (and there are one or two holes at which even a good shot
may find its way there) must always encounter a considerable risk of breaking his club in the
endeavour to play out again. I believe that attempts have been made to grow these rushes elsewhere,
but the seeds that have been carried away from their native Westward Ho! have never prospered.
Perhaps some golfers may reflect that this is just as well, though with all their faults and
dangers I certainly do not condemn them as a hazard. They are a novelty, and all things that
come from Nature must be admitted without question into the game of golf. On the south coast
there are several fine links. Newquay is excellent for a holiday, and the course of the Cinque
Ports Club at Deal, now that it is eighteen holes, is very fine. I have not enjoyed recent
acquaintance with it, but the short fourth hole which they call the Sandy Parlour struck me
when I was last down there as being a very sporting little piece of golf. Both Littlestone
and Rye are admirable, and I have pleasant memories of the latter, particularly in connection
with a match I once played there with Mr. Fred Tait.

Again, on the east coast of England there are courses in number which afford the best opportunities
for enjoyable and skilful golf. Cromer is a mixture of inland and seaside. It is one of those
seaside courses which don't look what they are, but some parts of it are good, especially those
which lie through the sand dunes. The lower part is tame. However, the air is beautiful, and
the golfer who makes his headquarters at this place enjoys the material advantage of having
three or four other first-class links within easy reach. For example, there is Brancaster,
which, though a long distance from any railway station, is worth any amount of trouble that
may be expended on the journey. The turf is excellent, the hazards well placed, and the golfer
who does not keep straight is penalised as he ought to be. It is a fine course. Then there
is Hunstanton, which is also very good, and Sheringham too. Higher up there is golf at Redcar
and Seaton Carew which none need despise. On the north-west coast there is more golf to be
had that is well worthy of the name. St. Anne's and Formby are both capital, and fine golf
is necessary to get round these courses at all well. Wallasey is highly satisfactory. Both
my space and my memory are unequal to giving a complete list of all the seaside courses that
should be commended, and the absence of any particular one from my little list does not imply
that I rank it as inferior, although I have tried to mention all those that I consider the
very best.

So far I have said nothing about inland links, because the golfer who is going away from his
own for a brief period for pleasure and improvement usually elects to play at the seaside,
and wisely so, for, apart from the superior hygienic properties of atmosphere, there is no
getting rid of the fact, however much we may be attached to some inland courses, that seaside
golf, when it is the real thing, is entirely different from any other. It is better in every
respect; in fact it is usually ideal. It gives more benefit to the mind and body of the overworked
player, it pulls out his game and makes a golfer of him as nothing else can ever do, and it
affords such variety of a true sporting character as nothing but Nature can provide. But in
thus extolling the seaside game, I do not wish for a moment to be considered as disparaging
the golf that is to be had almost everywhere throughout the country in these days. Inland golf
is a necessity to all except the leisured people who have no occupation which chains them to
cities and towns, and there is now so much of it that it has taken a dominant place in the
golfing world. And if the inland turf does not possess those glorious qualities that distinguish
the seaside article, and if the bunkers constantly bear evidence of having been carted to the
place where they are situated, and if, moreover, the evenness of many green fields becomes
somewhat monotonous, nevertheless the golf which is to be obtained at many of these places
is thoroughly enjoyable, and at the same time as severe a test of skill as the most conceited
player could ever wish for. Take Sunningdale, for instance. This course, in my opinion, is
the best of all the inland links with which I am familiar, and it requires the very finest
golf to get round it in anything like a decent score. Unless the golfer plays with his head
as well as with his club, he will find himself in difficulties all the way. Walton Heath is
another good example. Here also a capital player must be on the top of his game to get round
in anything like bogey. Those who made this course have mastered the undesirable eccentricities
of the rubber-cored ball as few others have done. This ball is too apt to despise the average
inland bunker, particularly in the summer-time, and goes skipping over it as if there were
no obstruction in sight. But it does not do that at Walton Heath, where they have made the
bunkers so deep that the ball inevitably stops in, and there is nothing for it but to ask the
caddie for the niblick and resign yourself to losing a stroke. I should like to see the managers
of other courses take a leaf out of the Walton Heath book. Bunkers that were once quite deep
in the old days of the gutty are in too many cases shallow and useless under the new conditions.
I do think that the splendid state of the Walton Heath links is marvellous considering the
short time that has elapsed since the club was formed. I have never played at Huntercombe,
over which my old friend and opponent, Willie Park, has spent so much care and time and money,
but I believe that it is similarly good, and I have heard golfers, for whose opinion I have
the highest respect, declare enthusiastically that it is one of the best inland courses to
be found anywhere, while the high hill air is splendid.

Considering the many disadvantages under which they labour, particularly in the matter of soil,
which is mostly of the clay variety, the links round about London may be considered good, and
though the metropolitan golfer may not always appreciate the fact, during one period of the
year he scores over all others. This is in the summer-time, when the hot sun has at last dried
and burnt up the grass on many seaside links and made them slippery and difficult even to walk
upon. At such time the grass on the London links is still usually quite fresh and green, and
not until some weeks later does it yield to the scorching rays. For the most part, too, the
London links are exceedingly well kept. Lees, the greenkeeper at the Mid-Surrey course at Richmond,
is the best man for that duty that I know.

I cannot attempt to give any adequate information about the hundreds of links that are now
dotted about all over the shires. It must suffice to say, in confining myself to large centres,
that I have pleasant memories of good golf that I have had on the fine course at Lindrick in
the Sheffield district, and at Trafford Park near Manchester. This is indeed a very nice inland
course, with gravelly soil and a capacity for keeping dry during the winter. At Timperley there
is another good links. The Huddersfield course is a splendid one to play upon, and very tricky
too. Its merits are indicated by the quality of golfers that it breeds. It has made several
men who have won the Yorkshire championships, and in club matches the Huddersfield team is
a very hard one to beat.

There is one class of course of which I have not yet made any mention, and which I do not think
it is necessary to do more than refer to. It is that mongrel kind which is both seaside and
inland, but which is in the full sense neither, situated, that is, at a seaside resort, and
may be in the very closest proximity to the sea, but with none of the properties of the real
seaside course--no seaside turf, no sand dunes, no wild natural golf. These courses are usually
elevated on cliffs. In many cases the golf that is to be obtained upon them is excellent, and
I only wish to point out to unpractised golfers who are about to start for a holiday and have
taken no advice, that if they are making for a seaside place and want that kind of golf which
they have heard is to be had at Deal, Sandwich, Rye, Westward Ho! Littlestone, St. Andrews,
North Berwick, and scores of other places, they should make quite certain that they are taking
their railway tickets in the proper direction. Otherwise, when they arrive upon the links that
they have chosen, they may fail to discover any difference between the course visited and that
on which they are in the habit of playing when at home. I only mention the matter because I
have known so many cases of severe disappointment arise through mistakes of this kind.

I have a higher opinion of both the present and the future of golf in America than that which
seems to be entertained by a large number of eminent players in this country. I think that
American golf is very good at the present time--much better than it is given credit for being--and
I am convinced that it will be still better in the future. I made a long golfing tour through
the United States in 1900, when Englishmen for the most part regarded the game in that country
with as much seriousness as they would have bestowed upon golf in Timbuctoo if they had heard
that it was being played there. At that time it seemed to be taking a firm grip of our cousins,
and I saw enough to convince me that America was coming on quickly, and that before long the
old country would have reason to fear her. Everything that has happened since then has strengthened
my belief, and the eyes of the British were at last fairly opened when the Championship was
played for at Sandwich in June of last year, when, to the chagrin of our own leading amateurs,
an American, in the person of Mr. Walter J. Travis, became the victor, and took back with him
across the Atlantic the Amateur Championship Cup. So far from surprising me, that event was
exactly what I expected. When I was in America I played against Mr. Travis once or twice, and
though he was then in the improving stage and evidently not at the top of his career, I felt
that he was a man who might very likely do great things in the future. Afterwards I followed
his play with some curiosity and interest. I saw that in course of time he beat many good men
whose form I understood precisely. I knew that he was one of the steadiest golfers I had ever
seen--a man of fine judgment and marvellous exactness, who always played with his head, and
was constantly giving the closest possible study to the game. I felt that when he came to play
for our Championship he would make a very bold bid for it. When I heard that he was going to
Sandwich last year, I made him my "tip" for premier honours, and before the first round was
played I said to many friends, "Mark my words; if Travis gets anything like a fairly easy draw
to start with he will go right through." And so he did. I saw him play on this memorable occasion,
which will never be forgotten as long as any of the events of golfing history are remembered,
and, in opposition to the opinions of other British critics expressed in many columns of print
during the weeks following, it was and is my absolute conviction that his was the best golf
played in that tournament, and that he thoroughly deserved to win. He played with his head
the whole way through, and his golf was really excellent. It was only natural that our people
should be very downhearted when they saw what had happened, for it seemed nothing else than
a great disaster. I do not think that in the long run it will prove to have been so, for the
inevitable effect of it was to wake up our British golf, which stood sadly in need of arousing.
I think that amateur golf in this country has been steadily depreciating for some time, and
at the present moment I think that the standard of merit of our best players is lower than
in the days when Mr. Harold Hilton, Mr. John Ball, jun., and the late Mr. Freddy Tait were
at their best. And despite the American shock, I cannot profess that the outlook at the present
moment is particularly encouraging. There are other good golfers in the States besides Mr.
Travis, and, frankly, I think that unless we wake up in this country the Cup will go there
again. For the moment our numerical strength in the Championship tournament is in our favour.
When there are only half a dozen Americans entered out of a total number of over a hundred,
the odds are evidently against them, but an "American invasion" is threatened, and then we
shall see what we shall see.

The chief reason why it is difficult to feel optimistic about the prospects of amateur golf
in this country is because the rising generation, upon whom we must depend for our future champions,
do not take sufficient pains to make themselves masters of the game. They are too haphazard
in learning it. The beginners on our side are too apt to say to themselves, "I will go and
teach myself to hit a ball first, and then I will take a lesson," which is, of course, entirely
wrong. Then one of their friends tells them to do a certain stroke in one way, and another
tells them the opposite, and thus at the end of six months they have got into such a thoroughly
bad style that it is the most difficult task in the world for a professional to set them right.
Those who have the future of British golf at heart cannot afford to disregard or wink at these
vagaries on the part of beginners, on whom we depend to constitute the national system in coming
years. Now the national system of America is altogether different. They are not haphazard there.
They seem to take a deeper interest in the game and its science, and they never think of trying
to learn it by the chance methods which are so much in favour with us. They take the game with
the utmost seriousness from the very beginning, and obtain the very best advice that they can.
The professionals never have a minute to spare, and their engagement-books are constantly filled
up for three weeks in advance, so that without that length of notice nobody stands a chance
of getting a lesson for love or money. That is the way in which the people of America are learning
to play golf, and it is the proper way. It is slow but it is very sure; and unless I am very
much mistaken, there will in the future be other players coming across the Atlantic to take
part in our championships who will be as great as Travis if not greater, and if we on our part
do not forthwith begin to take our golf more seriously it may be a sad day for us when they
do come.

As I have said, American golf was only just budding when I made my tour through the country
in 1900; but nevertheless I found that tour extremely interesting and enjoyable, and everywhere
I was given the heartiest and most enthusiastic reception. Nobody even begrudged me the American
Championship which I brought back with me, and nobody made any unkind criticisms of my play,
or suggested that I did not in any way deserve the victory. My tour began in March and did
not finish until the end of the year, but was interrupted for a short period at the beginning
of the summer, when I made a flying trip home in order to take part in our own Open Championship.
As it happened, the best that I could do was to finish second to Taylor, but I may add that
this result was better than I expected, considering the sudden change of golf and climate that
I experienced. I had to cover several thousands of miles in order to play the matches in which
I took part in America. Of these matches I only lost two when playing against a single opponent,
and each time it was Bernard Nicholls who beat me, first at Ormonde and then at Brae Burn.
There was not a blade of grass on the course on which Nicholls won his first match from me,
and I leave my readers to imagine what playing on a links consisting of nothing but loose sand
was like. Altogether I suffered only thirteen defeats, but in eleven of them I was playing
the best ball of two or more opponents, which was the task that was generally set me. I won
over fifty matches and halved two. Some of my victories were somewhat substantial. At Point
Comfort I beat Willie Dunn by sixteen up and fifteen to play, and at Scarsdale I got the better
of the same opponent to the extent of fifteen and fourteen. Such wide margins naturally suggest
opponents of inferior ability; but if I may modestly say so, I do not think that was wholly
the case. I consider that at that time I was playing better golf than I had ever played before
or have done since. As was the custom there, I used to go out on the links in the very thinnest
and airiest costume. In Florida it was too warm to play with either coat or vest, so both were
discarded and shirt sleeves rolled up. Generally, like my opponents, I wore no jacket, but
a neat waistcoat with sleeves which helped to keep the arms together. In such attire one was
afforded a delightful sense of ease and freedom which considerably helped one's golf. Then
again, whether it was due to the fine dry atmosphere--as I think it was--or not, the ball certainly
seemed to fly through the air with less resistance offered to it than I had ever experienced
before. Never have I driven so well as I did with the old gutty in America in that year. Many
of the professionals whom I met were men who were taught their golf in this country, and were
players who would usually hold their own in the best of professional company. The American
papers gave very lengthy reports of all the matches in which I took part, the headlines and
what followed them being frequently very flattering. There was "The Golf King," and many such
as that, in type nearly an inch deep. Perhaps I may, without offence, be permitted to quote
from the account given in a leading daily newspaper of the second match in which I defeated
Willie Dunn--at Scarsdale--which I only do for the purpose of showing that the conditions of
play were sometimes really trying, and not at all conducive to big victories or record breaking.
This paper said: "If it were necessary to dwell upon the extraordinary consistency of the champion's
game, one has only to refer to his card for the four rounds (it was a nine-hole course) in
yesterday's match, as his worst nine holes totalled forty-one and his best thirty-seven. If
the turf could only unearth a thoroughbred as reliable as Vardon, poolrooms in Greater New
York would be past history in very short order. Vardon's skill probably never underwent a severer
test than in the match yesterday. Everything was against his exhibiting anything approaching
championship form. He had not only to contend against a biting north-west wind, which temporarily
got mixed up with a flurry of snow, but the course itself, from the character of the land,
is about as difficult to score over as any in the country. The ground is one succession of
'kopjes,' while seven of the nine holes are 'on the collar' all the time, and at an angle of
from twenty to thirty degrees. The course is only 2677 yards in playing distance. On paper
this gives the impression of being nothing out of the ordinary, but confronted with it in actuality,
it is about as hard a proposition as any victim of the golf habit could tackle. The only course
one can compare with it here is Oakland, and the latter is a billiard table by the side of
it. At the finish of the thirty-six holes Vardon said, 'I never felt so fagged out in my life.
In fact I could play seventy-two holes on the other side every day for a week and not have
been fatigued half so much.'" I do not remember that I ever committed myself to such an extravagant
statement as this, but the course was certainly a very trying one that day. Yet on that occasion
I lowered the eighteen holes record for the course. Altogether I beat most of the records of
the courses during my tour. The first time I ever took my clubs out on American soil, on the
course of the Lawrence Harbour Country Club, I reduced the record for the nine holes (held
by Willie Dunn) from forty-one to forty. Yet the weather was so bad just then, and the clay
greens were in such a state of puddle, that temporary greens had to be made on the fairway.
I won my first match by nine up with eight to play. On one or two occasions I was obliged to
beat the record in order to win my game. Thus, when playing on the Wheaton links at Chicago,
Will Smith was three up on me at one time, but by beating the links record I won at the finish
by two up with one to play. This was one of the very toughest struggles I had over there.

There was no mistaking the enthusiasm of the American spectators. They came to the matches
in great crowds--always a large proportion of ladies--and they seemed bent on learning all
that they could from the play. Everybody seemed to be trying to practise my grip. All kinds
of theories were invented to account for the manner in which my shots came off. On one occasion,
after I had got in a good one with a cleek, an excited spectator jumped the ropes, ran up to
a friend of mine and screamed, "Say, which arm did he do that with?" I looked to see if all
my arms and legs were intact, or if there was anything that appeared unusual about them. I
discovered afterwards that by "arm" he meant "club." Many places of business were closed for
the afternoon when I was playing in certain districts, and on one occasion the Stock Exchange
did so. A letter to one of the papers, concerning the extraordinary manner in which America
was taking the golf fever, contained these sentences:--"I went into a leading business house
to-day and found the three partners of the firm in a violent discussion. As I thought they
were talking business I concluded that my presence was unnecessary, and started to edge away.
Suddenly I noticed the head of the firm rush into his office and rush out again with a cane.
As the words were heated I was just about to interfere when I saw a weapon appear on the scene,
but the head partner wasn't looking for blood. Instead of hitting anyone he swiped the cane
along the ground, and then I heard the words--'This is how Vardon holds it.' I wanted to make
an appointment with one of the partners, but he told me that he wouldn't be in. However, I
guess I'll meet him, because I'm going out to Dixie myself." The professionals and the golf
shops suddenly began to do an enormous trade in sticks, and Bernard Nicholls, the only man
who defeated me single-handed, preferred not to play me again for a long time. He said his
victory had done an enormous amount of good to his business, and he did not want to spoil it.
From numerous quarters I received all kinds of offers to "star" in one way or another, some
very big fees being suggested. Would I become a store manager at a huge salary? Would I make
an exhibition for so many hours daily of driving golf balls in a padded room in the city? And
so on. I actually did accept an offer one day to do exhibition swings in a room in a Boston
store. I was to start at 9.30 and continue until 5 each day, doing tee and other shots into
a net for half an hour at a time, and then resting for an hour before taking the next turn.
There was a fresh "house" of about two hundred people every time, and it was part of the bargain
that my manager should stand by and explain everything. But he had had enough of it after one
or two turns. Then I found it became terribly monotonous, and to interest myself I kept trying
to hit a particular spot on the wall near the ceiling, until the stores manager came forward
in a state of great excitement, declaring that only six inches from that spot was the tap of
a patent fire extinguishing arrangement, and that if I hit it the room would be flooded by
a series of waterspouts in less time than I could imagine! By four o'clock my hands were blistered
badly, and at that stage I had had enough and went out. In the meantime I was the constant
recipient of numerous presents of all kinds, and the invitations that I received to dinners
were far too many for any professional golfer to accept. I do not mention these things with
any desire for self-glorification. They are ancient history now, and nobody cares about them.
But they serve to show the whole-hearted manner in which America was going in for golf, and
the tremendous hold that it took on the people. We talk on this side of the "golfing fever"
and of people "going mad" about the game. Believe me, the Britisher is a mere dallier in comparison
with his American golfing cousin.

An interesting incident happened when the American Championship was played for on the Wheaton
course, when, as I was informed, the game of golf achieved the most notable victory that it
had ever achieved in the United States. This was the complete surrender to it of the veteran
champion and overlord of baseball, the American national game. How that came about I will leave
one of the Chicago newspapers to relate:--"Cap. Anson surrendered to golf yesterday. The capitulation
of the veteran of America's national game took place on the links at Wheaton during the race
between Harry Vardon and J.H. Taylor. 'Cap.' says the game of golf is a go. He has stood out
against it and ridiculed it ever since it began to get the people. Anson knows Charles S. Cox,
Vardon's manager, and accepted an invitation yesterday morning to look in on the game. On the
links he balked at the proposition of walking four miles in one trip around the course, but
he lined up with the crowd to see Vardon drive off. The ball went higher than any fly 'Pop'
ever saw in his life. It sailed 220 yards. Anson was first to start the applause with a 'Good
boy. She's a homer.' Then he led the gallery to the first green. He was puffing when he pulled
up at the eighteenth hole, but he felt better than if he had stolen second base. 'I'd like
to take a crack at that golf ball,' he said. 'You can put me down for a trial the first chance
I get. Wouldn't mind togging up in kilts just to give the Prince of Wales a run for his money.'"
For the sake of giving prominence to it, this paragraph was put in a fancy border and let into
the middle of the sheet of newspaper, so the Chicago people evidently attached some importance
to the capitulation of the worthy captain, and I hope that by this time he has had many thousands
of cracks at the golf ball and that his handicap is low.

I was intent on making a bold bid for this American Open Championship. Victory in it seemed
to be the one thing essential to make my trip the greatest possible success. My friend Taylor,
who had just beaten me for the Open Championship at St. Andrews, had himself come over to the
States, and was also a candidate for the premier honours of American golf. As it turned out,
we had practically the whole contest at Wheaton to ourselves, and a rare good duel it was,
at the end of which I was at the top of the list, but only two strokes in front of my English
opponent, while he was eight in front of the next man. The system of deciding the championship
was the same as on this side, that is to say, four medal rounds were played, two on one day
and two on the next. At the end of the first day's play I was just one stroke better than Taylor,
my score for the two rounds bring 157 to his 158, and on the second day I did 156 to his 157,
so that on the whole event I was 313 to his 315. Taylor waited on the edge of the green while
I holed out my last putt, and was the first to grasp my hand in sincere congratulation. Beautiful
weather, the biggest golfing crowd ever seen in America up to that time, and a good links,
made the tournament a great success. The partner who went round with me during this championship
competition was Will Smith, the holder, who finished fifth.

I had some curious experiences in the course of my journeyings about the country, and I am
not sure that they were all good for my game. During the early months I was down in Florida
away from the cold and the snow. I met some good golfers there. It was necessary to play an
entirely different game from that to which we are accustomed in this country. There was no
grass on the putting "greens." They were simply made of loose sand, sprinkled on the baked
ground and watered and rolled. When there was a shortage of water and there was wind about,
the fine part of the sand was blown away, and the surface of the "greens" then consisted of
nothing but little pebbles. It was not easy to putt over this kind of thing, but I must not
convey the impression that these sand "greens" were wholly bad. When properly attended to they
are really nice to putt upon after you have become accustomed to them. It was impossible to
pitch on to them, and one had to cultivate the habit of running up from a very long distance.
Thus I got into the way of playing a kind of stab shot. The tees consisted not of grass but
of hard soil, and one had to tee up much higher than usual in order to avoid damaging the sole
of the driver. This provoked the habit of cocking the ball up, and as a corrective all the
teeing grounds in Florida sloped upwards in front. Locusts were responsible for eating all
the grass away from some courses, and I had a unique experience when I played Findlay at Portland.
When we were on the putting greens, men had constantly to be beating sticks to keep the locusts
off the lines of our putts. If it struck a locust the ball would come to a sudden stop. Acres
and acres of land about there were without a single blade of grass. The locusts had eaten it
all away. After we left Florida we reached some good courses, and resumed the old kind of play.
It has often been suggested that the peculiar conditions of play in America, to which I was
subjected for a long period, resulted in a permanent injury to my game as played at home, and
in the light of reflection and experience I am persuaded to think that this is so. I have played
well since then, have felt equal to doing anything that I ever did before, and have indeed
won the Championship, but I think I left a very small fraction of my game in the United States.

In the way of other novel experiences I might mention that on one occasion I played as "Mr.
Jones." I wanted a quiet day, and did not wish a too attentive public to know where I was.
Three friends joined me in a foursome, but when we went into the club-house after our game,
another anxious golfer went up to my partner when I was standing by, and inquired of him whether
he had heard that Vardon was playing on the links. My friend declared that he knew nothing
of such a rumour, and I could hardly refrain from laughter as the anxious one went to pursue
his inquiries in other quarters. Another time two other professionals and myself visited a
course where we were unknown, and, hiding our identity, pretended that we were novices at the
game, and begged of our caddies to advise us as to the best manner of playing each shot, which
they did accordingly. We deliberately duffed most of our strokes at several holes, but this
course of procedure tired us immensely, and so at last we abandoned it and began to play our
natural game. Imagine the consternation and the indignation of those caddies! Each one of them
threw down his bag of clubs, and, declining to carry them for another hole, walked sulkily
off the course. On one occasion we camped out for the night on the links on which we were playing,
and a very pleasant variation from the ordinary routine we found it.

The American newspapers, to which I have frequently referred, do their golf reporting very
well. Their journalism may be "sensational" or whatever you like to call it, but the golfing
section of it was usually interesting, ingenious, and very intelligent and reliable. On the
occasion of one match in which I played, a paper gave up nearly the whole of one of its pages
to a large panoramic view of the links. The flight of my ball and that of my opponent, and
the places where they stopped after every stroke, from the first to the last, were accurately
marked. Thus the whole game was illustrated in a single picture in a very effective manner.
As was inevitable, I was sometimes victimised by interviewers who wrote "interviews" with me
which I had never accorded, containing most amazing particulars about my methods and habits.
Occasionally a reporter was turned on to describe a game when he knew nothing about golf, and
then the results were sometimes amusing. One of these writers had it that I "carried away the
green with my drive." Another said I "dropped dead at the hole." When playing at Washington
against two opponents, I happened to beat bogey at the first hole. One of the reporters was
told of this achievement, but did not quite understand it. Going to the next hole, we were
walking through a bunker when he came up to me and politely inquired if that--the bunker--was
the kind of bogey that I had beaten. I was told a very good story of American golf reporting.
A match was arranged between two well-known amateurs, one of whom happened to be a very rich
banker. One reporter, who admitted that he "knew nothing about the darned game," arrived rather
late on the course, and borrowed the "copy" of an experienced golfing journalist for information
of what had already happened. When this "copy" was duly returned with thanks, the late-comer
remarked to his obliging friend, "Say, you made a bad mistake in one part." "What was it?"
the other asked. "Waal, you say that So-and-so 'lipped the hole for a half.'" "Yes, that is
right." "Oh, go away; you don't mean to tell me that a rich man like that would be playing
for a paltry fifty cents. I've altered it to 'lipped the hole for a hundred dollars.'" And
I remember that once when I was playing the best ball of two amateurs, one of the reporters
had been instructed by his chief to keep the best ball score. I happened to lose the match
on the last green, but on looking through the paper the next morning I was surprised to see
it stated that I was beaten by not one but many holes, making this defeat in fact the biggest
inflicted on me during my tour. The paper said that it was. I could not make anything out of
it for some time, until at last I discovered that the reporter had reckoned my score also in
the best ball figures! Obviously I could not beat myself. The best I could do was to get a
half, and that was how it came about that I never won a single hole in the "Harry Vardon v.
Harry Vardon and two others" match.

The caddie is an indispensable adjunct to the game of golf, and for the most part he fulfils
his functions very capably; but there are caddies of every imaginable variety, and their vagaries
are such as to cause wonderment on the part of their employers sometimes, amusement at others,
and not infrequently exasperation. Some of them know too much about the game, and others far
too little, and I hardly know which of these classes is in the long run the worse for the golfers
who engage them to carry their clubs.

An incident of which I heard that happened to a well-known player on the North Berwick links,
must have been very trying to him. On a busy day all the regular caddies had been engaged,
and the fishermen were drafted into the club-carrying service. The player, having asked one
of these fishermen if he knew anything about the game, and having been informed that he had
only a little knowledge of it, resigned himself calmly to the inevitable, and told the man
complacently that he would do. This player happened to be left-handed, and took up his stance
on the first tee accordingly, whereupon the son of the sea at once adopted the part of tutor,
and with some warmth and show of contempt exclaimed loudly, "I dinna ken much aboot the game,
but ye dinna ken a wee bit. Mon, ye're standing on the wrong side of the baw! Awa' to the other
side!" Golfers at the beginning of a round are proverbially susceptible to small influences,
and when a player is accustomed to lean somewhat upon his caddie, as even some of the best
occasionally do, I can well imagine that such a trivial matter as this is enough to mar a tee shot.

There were some strange specimens of the caddie species at Ganton when I was there. "Make a
tee, boy," said a golfer to one of them, evidently a novice, one day. The player had been waiting
about for something under a minute, while his servant showed no sign of making the usual preparations
for the tee shot. The boy did not seem to understand. "Make a tee, boy," exclaimed the player
a second time sharply, but still there was no response, and then the man called for some sand,
bent down and made the tee himself. At this the boy attributed the failure of his understanding
to the player's limited powers of expression, and somewhat scornfully exclaimed, "Why, if you
had told me it was a cock-shot that was wanted, I should have known what you meant!" On competition
days at Ganton we had often to secure a number of lads who had never seen the game played before,
and very interesting specimens of the youth of Yorkshire they often were. One day, I remember,
a competitor pulled his ball very badly, and his caddie, who had gone on a little way in front,
received it hard on a very tender part of his head. He was not seriously hurt, but much pained,
and forthwith, excusably perhaps, he gave way to tears. To soothe him his employer presented
him with half a sovereign. The tears suddenly ceased, the boy's face broke into a happy smile,
and a moment later, when the two were trudging away towards the hole, the youngster ingenuously
inquired, "Will you be coming out again this week, sir?"

There is a kinship between this story and that of the caddie at North Berwick, son of the greenkeeper
there, some years ago, when first he began to carry clubs. He was a very precocious little
fellow, and the player for whom he had been engaged to carry for the day was a well-known golfer
from the south. When the day's play was far advanced, and the time of reckoning was drawing
nigh, the boy seized an opportunity of sidling close up to his patron and asking him, "D'ye
ken Bob S----?" the said Bob being one of the notabilities of the links. The player answered
that he had not the pleasure of Mr. Robert's acquaintance so far, and inquired of the boy why
he asked such a question. "Weel," was the answer, "it's a peety ye dinna ken Bob S----. He's
a rale fine gentleman, for he aye gies twa shillin' a roond for carryin' till'm; no like some
that ca' themsels gentlemen, an' only gie a shillin'."

But lest it should be imagined from the recital of these incidents that the caddie is invariably
over-greedy, and that he has no soul for anything but the pecuniary reward of his service,
let there by way of contrast be told the story of the boy who was willing to carry clubs for
nothing--the one solitary instance of such a disposition to self-sacrifice that there is on
record. This time the golfer was not a great one. He had his faults, and they were numerous,
and for their conquest and suppression he came to the conclusion that it would be better if
he went out alone over the links and wrestled with them determinedly. A caddie watched him
going out thus solitary, and felt sorry, so he said to him, "I will carry your clubs for a
shilling, sir." But the golfer replied, "No, my boy, not to-day, thanks; I will carry them
myself." The golfer missed his drive, foozled his second, put his third into a bunker, and
endured other agonies. The caddie had been following at a respectful distance, and when the
ball had been duly picked up out of the bunker, he made a further appeal. "I will carry for
ninepence, sir." "No, I do not want a caddie," was the answer again. "I will carry for sixpence,
then." "No, go away." On the next tee the player, overcome by conflicting emotions, missed
the ball altogether two or three times, and then was the caddie's opportunity, which he seized
without hesitation. "I will carry for the fun of the thing, sir!"

This is a digression, but I fear that digressions are inevitable when one enters upon the subject
of caddies, and is persuaded to dip into one's recollection of caddie stories. The ignorant
caddie is trying, but not less is the one who knows too much about the game, or thinks he does,
and insists upon inflicting his superior knowledge upon you during the whole course of the
round. Once when I was playing for the Championship, my clubs were carried by a caddie who
swore horribly at me all the time, notwithstanding that from the beginning I was going strongly
for the first place. That boy got on my nerves. I was approaching well, but my putting was
certainly not so sure and confident as it might have been. "What the ---- is the good of shooting
at the flag if you can't putt worth a d----!" he exclaimed in great disgust on one occasion
when I had the misfortune to miss holing out a somewhat short putt. He has begged to be allowed
to carry for me many times since then, but I have steadfastly refused his offer, for I would
not be handicapped with him upon any consideration. The caddie I like best of all, and he who
I am convinced is the best servant for the average golfer, is he who thoroughly understands
the game, has a deep knowledge of the course that is being played over, knows exactly what
club to give you upon any and every occasion, and limits his functions to giving you that club
without being asked for it. This caddie is a silent caddie, who knows that words of his are
out of place, and that they would only tend to upset his master's game. It will generally be
found that he, above all others, is the one who takes a deep and sympathetic interest in that
game. He never upon any consideration gives advice without being asked for it. On the other
hand, he takes care that no act or omission of his shall ever cause his man the most momentary
irritation, for he has sufficient knowledge of the golfer's temperament to know that these
trifles are a constant source of bad holes. When the player is preparing for his shot, and
his eye is wandering anxiously between the ball and the hole, he puts out his hand whilst still
continuing his survey of the ground, and as he puts it out he feels it grasp the handle of
the exact club that is wanted. There is little need to look at it. The caddie knew and acted.
The stance is taken while the player is still in his thoughtful mood, the shot is made while
his mind is still concentrated to the utmost extent on the difficult task in hand, and then,
after a happy result, the player and this faithful, truly sympathetic caddie go quietly on
their way. When you are on the green he never needs to be told to go to the pin. He is always
there, standing at the hole as soon as the time has come to putt; and while, if the putt is
a poor thing, he has nothing to say (for silence is more than ever welcome at such a time of
sorrow and disappointment), he permits himself a few courteous words of congratulation if a
great success has been achieved at the last stroke at the hole, and the crown been placed upon
an effort that has been truly praiseworthy throughout. This is my ideal caddie, and I am prepared
to make some concessions to have him always at my side during the most trying rounds that I
have to play. If he always performs the duties I have named, promptly and quietly, I do not
care whether he really knows much about the game or not. If a caddie does the round of a course
often enough in the company of good golfers, he knows the club to use for every particular
stroke, even though he may have no practical knowledge of the game, and I ask nothing more
of him than that he should always hand that club to me without keeping me waiting for a single
moment. These caddies are a rarer species than the others.

I am no advocate of female labour, but I have often, after an experience of the girl caddie,
been tempted to wish that there were more of them in the land, for they are uncommonly good.
The little girl of humble lot seems, nine times out of ten, to possess all those qualities
which go to the making of a good caddie--according to my standard of a good caddie--in a remarkable
degree. Unlike some of her elder sisters, she never talks; but she always watches the game
very closely and takes a deep interest in it. She is most anxious--if anything too anxious--to
do her service properly and well, and to the most complete satisfaction of the gentleman who
will reward her for it at the finish. She never keeps you waiting for your bag. The clubs are
always there at your hand. If it is obvious to this little girl's simple intelligence that
you want your brassy, she has it ready for you. If there is a doubt about the club, she does
not make the mistake of offering you one on chance, as it were. She is too timid for that.
She holds the bag before you and lets you choose yourself and carry all the responsibility
on your own shoulders. The good boy caddie, whom I have referred to as my ideal, does that
also. I said he was always waiting with the club ready, but if it is evident to him, as to
the player, that it is a difficult question of judgment as to which particular club should
be taken in somewhat puzzling circumstances, he allows the golfer to make his choice from the
whole collection in the bag, making no suggestion of his own either by word or movement, unless
invited to do so. Cannot every golfer recall numberless instances of bad shots and holes lost
because in one of these moments of doubt, when his own inclination was leaning to the employment
of one particular club, his caddie thrust another before him? Feeling that there must be something
good in the caddie's recommendation, he has been tempted in spite of himself to use it. How
frequently are the consequences disastrous in such circumstances as these, and how unenviable
are the golfer's after reflections upon his own weakness! Yes, decidedly the girl caddie excels.
I have seen her on many links up and down the country, and she is always good. In one of my
last matches last season--at Luton--I had one to carry for me, and she was as good as any.
Perhaps it may be urged by some players that it is not a good thing for girls to do this work.
About that I have nothing to say. I only know that they do their duty well.

A peculiarly caustic but half-unconscious humour is the characteristic of caddies everywhere,
but particularly in the north, and while golfers continue to lack absolute perfection, and
their ministering attendants to expect it from them every time, it will probably remain a characteristic.
A fair specimen was the remark of his caddie to a player whose handicap was several strokes
removed from scratch, and who, having become badly bunkered on one occasion, tried nearly every
iron club in his bag in a vain endeavour to get out. The case was heartbreaking, and he turned
despairingly to his caddie with the question, "What on earth shall I take now?" There was little
encouragement in the answer, "Take the 4.5 train." There is a good story also of a certain
Welshman of title who became enthusiastic over the game, though he did not excel at it. He
conceived that it would be a good thing to make a tour of the famous Scottish courses with
the object of improving his play, and in due season he arrived at a certain famous green, where
he employed as his caddie an individual who had a considerable reputation for blunt candour.
The turf suffered severely every time this player made use of his irons, and the caddie shook
his head gloomily and sadly as he witnessed the destructive work that went on daily. At last
there came a day when he could stand it no longer, and when the Welshman had taken a mighty
swipe at the ball with a heavy iron and made a deep excavation for several inches behind it,
the club carrier moaned painfully, "O lord, man, hae mercy on puir auld Scotland!" It is said
that the golfer played no more on those links. It was on this same course that two players
went out one morning to play, and found a friend waiting alone on the first tee, who said that
he had fixed up a match with a certain Captain Blank, who would be coming along presently.
The possibility of a foursome was considered, and a question was asked as to what kind of a
player the Captain was, his partner replying, "Oh, he is excellent. He drives a good ball,
plays his irons well, and is exceedingly useful at the short game; in fact, he is a first-rate
all-round man." Expecting confirmation of this eulogium, he turned to his caddie and said,
"You know the Captain's play well enough. Now, what sort of a player would you say he is?"
The caddie replied scornfully, "Captain Blank! He canna play a shot worth a d----. He's nae
better than yoursel'!"

The fact is that no player is great in the eyes of his caddie, for on one occasion when two
gentlemen who were very fair hands at the game were doing a round and being closely pressed
by a couple behind, who seemed to be driving inordinately long balls, one of them observed
that perhaps they had better let them go through as they seemed to be playing both well and
quickly. "Na, na, naething o' the kind," interposed one of the caddies. "They're just twa duffers
like yersels!" And great eminence in other fields counts for nothing with the caddie if his
man cannot golf in good style. There is the story told by Mr. Balfour of the distinguished
general, hero of many battles, who, having duly found his way into his twentieth bunker, was
startled by a cry of irritation from his caddie, "Come, come, old gentleman, this will never
do!" This great statesman-golfer relates another anecdote showing that caddies are much the
same the whole world over. An English golfer was playing at Pau and had a French caddie attending
upon him. He made one particularly fine approach shot, and, as golfers will at such times,
he turned round to the boy with excusable vanity for applause. But the boy's English vocabulary
so far comprised only two words which he had heard uttered on several occasions, but the sense
of which he did not understand. Feeling sure, however, that they must be appropriate to this
occasion, and desiring to be appreciative, he smiled pleasantly into the golfer's face and
murmured, "Beastly fluke!" Mr. Balfour, by the way, has a particular and decided taste in caddies,
for he has written that he can gladly endure severe or even contemptuous criticism from them;
can bear to have it pointed out to him that all his misfortunes are the direct and inevitable
result of his own folly; can listen with equanimity when failure is prophesied of some stroke
he is attempting, and can note unmoved the self-satisfied smile with which the fulfilment of
the prophecy is accentuated; but ignorant and stupid indifference is intolerable to him. The
caddie, in the statesman's opinion, is not, and ought not, to be regarded as a machine for
carrying clubs at a shilling a round, but rather occupies, or ought to occupy, the position
of competent adviser or interested spectator. The caddie ought to be as anxious for the success
of his side as if he were one of the players, and should watch each move in the game with benevolent
if critical interest, being always ready with the appropriate club, and, if need be, with the
appropriate comment.

But I don't like to see this anxiety for the success of one's fortunes upon the links carried
to excess. It is then a disturbing factor, and its humorous aspect does not always appeal to
one as it should. Some golfers might be flattered when they come to know that their caddies
have backed them to the extent of half the remuneration they will receive for carrying the
clubs for the round. It is a touching expression of the caddie's belief in them. But after
all this kind of thing does not help to make a good caddie. Apart from other considerations,
it does not make the boy carry any the better because he is over-anxious about the result of
the match, and, though some golfers might be inclined to ridicule the suggestion, it nevertheless
is a disturbing element in one's game if one knows that even the caddie will be very deeply
concerned if every stroke does not come off just as well as it ought to do. The caddie is not
above letting you know of his wager; sometimes he will even tell you of it. Two golfers of
some Highland celebrity were playing a match one day at Luffness, and after a hard round they
came to the eighteenth tee all square and but this one hole to play. At this critical stage
of the game the caddie of one of them approached his master and nervously whispered to him,
"Please, sir, wad ye do your very best here, for there's money on this match." And the golfer
did try to do his very best indeed, but he pressed and he foozled, and he lost the hole and
the match. Sympathetically he turned to his caddie to ask him what was the amount of the lost
wager that he might pay it for him and soften his disappointment. "It was a penny, sir," said
the boy.

But despite his constant sarcasm and his utter inability to tolerate anything except the very
best in golf, there is after all much good human kindness in your caddie if he is worthy of
the name. "Big Crawford" will always be remembered as a fine specimen. On the day when Mr.
A.J. Balfour played himself into the captaincy of the Royal and Ancient club, a gentleman who
was looking on, and who was well acquainted with the fact that when Mr. Balfour was in Ireland
as Chief Secretary he never played a round of any of the Irish links without having plain-clothes
detectives walking fore and aft, inquired very audibly, "Is there no one looking after Mr.
Balfour now?" "Big Crawford" was carrying for him that day, and he heard the question. He turned
with a look of severe pride towards the quarter whence it came, and answered it as loudly,
"Aw'm lookin' aifter Maister Balfour." There was nothing more to be said. The chief of the
Conservatives has certainly an enormous popularity with the caddies. He so evidently loves
his golf so much, and he has great sympathy with them. He bears amiably with their weaknesses.
He was one day playing a match with Tom Dunn, who was his tutor, at North Berwick, and by a
mixture of skill and luck was enabled to hole out at "Pointgarry out" in two. It happened that
he received a stroke from Dunn at this hole, and the caddie ingeniously pointed out to him
that he was thus entitled to consider that he had done the hole in one. "How excellent!" he
said. But in the same breath the caddie begged leave to remind him that it was customary for
all good golfers to celebrate the performance of this particular feat by the bestowal of some
special token upon their caddies. Mr. Balfour was amused. He tantalised the boy by observing
that rather than that he should have to pay anyone for watching him do these great things,
he surely ought to receive remuneration from all spectators for doing them. The boy felt that
there was truth in this new view of things, and a sad look was stealing over his face, when
the right honourable gentleman handed over to him the customary fee. Another time on the links,
two officers, a Colonel and a Major, were playing in front of Mr. Balfour and his partner,
when the latter were courteously invited to go through so that their enjoyment of the round
would not be interfered with by any waiting. At the moment when Mr. Balfour was passing the
others, he was surprised to hear a word of command called out by the Colonel's caddie, who
happened to be a Lucknow veteran. "Attention! Eyes front! Shoulder arms! Present arms!" And
thereupon each of the caddies took from his bag a driver and with it presented arms in proper
soldierly style, Mr. Balfour, who was Chief Secretary at the time, smiling with pleasure at
the interesting compliment and acknowledging the salute. He has a remarkable memory for the
caddies who have served him, and once, when on the tee, just about to engage in a foursome,
he recognised one of his opponents' caddies as a boy who on a former occasion had carried his
own clubs, and he nodded to him kindly. Naturally the caddie was immensely pleased, and turning
to one of his colleagues he remarked, "Ye see hoo we Conservatives ken ane anither!"

Another instance of the deep humanity of "Big Crawford," whom I have just mentioned, occurred
on one occasion when he was carrying for an Edinburgh clergyman, who, in going for the Redan,
had the misfortune to be badly bunkered, his ball, in addition to the other difficulties of
the situation, lying in a deep heel mark. He was palpably in great agony of mind, all the greater
in that he never uttered a word. Crawford crept quietly to his side and whispered gently, "What
a peety! What a peety! But gin an aith wad relieve ye, sir, dinna mind me, dinna mind me!"
and thereupon he discreetly retired for some little distance. Sandy Smith, another famous caddie,
was one day carrying for a player who had the good fortune to be no fewer than six holes up
on his opponent by the time the eighth hole was reached. At this green, something having gone
wrong with the reckoning of the strokes, there was a mild dispute as to whether the hole had
been won by Sandy's man or whether it had been halved. Eventually it was agreed that it was
halved, but as the players moved away to the next tee, he who was six down being out of earshot
in front, his opponent remarked to Sandy, "You know, Sandy, I still think I won that hole after
all." Sandy seemed shocked at such a cold-blooded greed for holes, and reprovingly, very seriously,
and sharply said to his employer, "Haud yer tongue, sir; haud yer tongue. Wad ye break the
man's heart?" Sandy used to remark that "the finest gowffer on the green was Maister Edward
Blyth," and it was not until he had expressed this opinion with an almost wearying frequency
that his hearers suspected that there was some connection between his choice and the fact,
which he admitted one day, that "his auld claes fits me best." Apparently he had the measure
of every player on the course. "I'm wantin' a word wi' ye, Mr. Blyth," he said to his favourite
one day. "What is it, Sandy?" "It's no' muckle, sir; it's jist this, ye ken. I'm wantin' an
auld suit o' claes frae ye; ye're the only man hereaboot that'll fit me." But apparently there
were others, for one day when a player for whom he was carrying asked him if he knew the Lord
Justice-Clerk, who happened just then to be passing in a foursome, Sandy replied, "That's Lord
Kingsbury, ye mean. O ay, he's a great freen' o' mine. Naebody kens his lordship better nor
me. Thae's his breeks I've on."

Golfers should, I think, sometimes be on their guard lest a too kind-hearted caddie, in an
excess of zeal for his employer, should be tempted to transgress the laws of the game, or depart
from strict truthfulness in his behalf. Sometimes it is done with a wonderful air of innocence
and simplicity. Caddies have been known, when their employers have been in doubt as to exactly
how many strokes they have played at certain holes, to give an emphatic, but none the less
untruthful declaration, on the side of fewness. They mean well, but mistakenly, and it is better
for everybody concerned, but particularly for the caddies, that they should be severely reprimanded
when there is reason to doubt their good faith.

And who shall say that another, and for our purposes the final characteristic of the average
caddie of experience, is not a wonderful amount of solid worldly common-sense of a variety
specially adapted to golf? And what golfer is there who has not at one time or another had
the advantage of it? But he may at the time have been unconscious of the assistance. There
is the historic case of the caddie on the Scottish links who warned a beginner, dallying too
much on the tee, that he "maunna address the ba' sae muckle." Forthwith the southern tyro,
greatly exasperated at his own failures, burst out, "So far as I know I haven't said a word
to the infernal thing, but the irritation of this beastly game is enough, and if I have any
more of your confounded tongue you may repent it!" Then the caddie murmured to himself, "I
dinna like 'is look. I'll better get 'm roond as pleesant as possible." Could any advice have
been more delicately worded than that of the caddie to the stout clergyman who with all his
strength made a most mighty swing at his ball on the tee with the usual result--a foozle? "It'll
nae do, sir; ye ken ye canna drive as far as that." "Wha--wha--what do you mean by such a remark?
As far as what?" gasped the reverend but irate gentleman. "I jist mean, sir, that ye canna
drive as far as ye wad like."

Perhaps we shall never hear the best caddie stories, for is it not likely that a great abundance
of them are made and told in the sheds after the day's play is over, and when the golfer's
tools are being wiped and cleaned, and his irons burnished to a beautiful brightness? It is
then that the caddie is in his happiest vein, his tongue and disposition untrammelled by the
presence of the club members. "What're ye doin' cleanin' them clubs so grand?" asked one caddie
of another, who was evidently bestowing unusual pains on the polishing of the set that were
in his keeping. The caddie was in a thoughtful mood. He was the regular attendant of an old
golfer who had had a most disastrous day. "I'm to clean 'em better than ever," he answered.
"And when I've cleaned 'em I've got to break 'em across my knee. And then I've got to chuck
'em in the bloomin' river." Sometimes, we see, if he is a simple-hearted, faithful caddie,
his lot is not a happy one.

I think that every good golfer of experience reflects upon his past history with mingled pleasure
and sorrow--pleasure when he calls to mind all the many glorious matches in which he has taken
part, and sorrow when the thought arises that all that golf has been played and done with,
and can never be played again. But we have all this abiding consolation, that even if we cannot
retain our very best form to the end of our days, we can hope still to play a good game to
the finish, and there is the heroic example of rare old Tom Morris to stimulate us in this
hope. Much is given to golfers,--perhaps more than to the participators in any other sport,--but
they are rarely satisfied. The wonderful fascination of golf is indicated in this eternal longing
for more. Sometimes when I glance over the records of the history of the game, I feel a twinge
of regret that it was not possible for me to play with, or even to see, such giants of the
past as Allan Robertson, David Strath, the Dunns, Willie Campbell, Willie Park, senior, or
the famous young Tom Morris. Golf is great to-day, but it must have been great in those days
also, even if there was less of it than there is now.

But I have had the good fortune to play with all the well-known amateurs and professionals
of my own time, and it is pleasant to think that they are nearly all still alive, and that
therefore I may sometime or another play with them again. There is one great exception--Mr.
Fred Tait, who was killed in South Africa. I don't think anyone could ever have the smallest
doubt about the reason for his enormous popularity. I had the delight of playing against him
two or three times, and I thought that he was not only a very fine golfer indeed, but one of
the very finest gentlemen that I could imagine. It is something for me to remember that I played
in the last important match in which he figured before he went out to the war--an international
foursome, England v. Scotland, that was played at Ganton, Willie Park and Mr. Tait representing
Scotland, while Mr. John Ball, junior, and I were for England. From all the amateurs with whom
I have ever come in contact I have always received the very greatest kindness and encouragement,
and I do not know a single one with whom I would not like to play again some day or other.
It has always seemed to me that there is something about golf that makes a man a good fellow
whether he is amateur or professional.

I wish to speak in the same way about my professional brothers as I have done about the amateurs.
I have always found them all first-class sportsmen in the strictest and best sense of the word,
and some of the best friends I have in the world are among them. There are some very fine players
among the professionals of to-day. I have often watched and greatly admired the splendid skill
of such friends and constant opponents as J.H. Taylor, James Braid, Alexander Herd, Jack White,
and many others whose names would fill a page, not forgetting my own brother Tom. I have from
time to time been indebted to many of them for various acts of kindness. There is a fine spirit
of freemasonry amongst us professionals. Whenever we play against each other each of us does
his level best to win, and gives no quarter with a single stroke, but it has been my invariable
experience that when the match is over the loser is always the first to congratulate the winner,
and to do it not as a mere matter of form but with the very utmost sincerity.

And here I should like to say a few words with the object of removing a misconception which
still seems to linger in the minds of followers of the game. "Dear me, Vardon, what a grand
time you fellows have, travelling all over the country in this manner, and doing nothing but
playing golf on the very best courses," is the kind of remark that often greets me when I have
just returned from playing in one match or tournament, and am due to start for another in a
day or two. But I am not sure that we have such a grand time as those who say these things
seem to think. We enjoy it just because we enjoy everything connected with golf, and particularly
the playing of it; but playing these exhibition matches is not quite the same thing as going
away for the week-end and having a quiet round or two with a friend, however hard you may try
to beat him. Some people entertain a fancy that we do not need to strain ourselves to the utmost
in these engagements, and that therefore we take things easily. I can answer for myself, and
I am sure for all my brother professionals, that we never take things easily, that we always
play the very best golf of which we are capable, and that if a championship rested on each
match we could not play any better. It must be remembered that when we are invited by any club
to play an exhibition match, that club expects to see some golf, and thus it happens that the
fear of a great responsibility is always overhanging us. We dare not play tricks with such
reputations as we may have had the good fortune to obtain. We are always well aware that there
are very good golfers in the crowd, who are watching and criticising every stroke that we make.
Therefore we keep ourselves in the very best of condition, and do our utmost always to play
our best. How difficult is our task when sometimes we are not feeling as well as we might wish--as
must occasionally happen--I will leave the charitable reader to imagine. Has he ever felt like
playing his best game when a little below par in either mind or body? This is where the really
hard work of the professional's life comes in. There is no "close season" in golf, as in cricket,
football, and other sports. When a cricketer plays indifferently, after two months of the game,
his admirers cry out that he is stale and needs a rest. But there are eleven players on each
side in a cricket match, and constant rests for all of them, so that to my mind their work
is very light in comparison with that of the golfer, who enjoys no "close season," and has
all the work of each match on his own shoulders. Surely he also must become stale, but such
a state on his part is not tolerated. Again, one often hears that a certain match between professional
players has been halved purposely--that is to say, that it was an arranged thing from start
to finish. Such things may have happened in other sports, but take it from me that it never,
never happens in golf. One man never plays down to another, whatever disparity there may be
in their respective degrees of skill. It does not matter how many holes one is up on one's
opponent; there is never any slackening until the game has been won. It makes no difference
if the man you are playing against is your very best friend or your brother, and one has sometimes
to pass through the trying ordeal of straining his every nerve to win a match when in his heart
of hearts, for some particular reason, he would like the other man to win. I intrude these
affairs of our own in these concluding reflections only for the purpose of indicating that,
though we love our game and always enjoy it, professional golf is not quite the same thing
as that played by amateurs, and must not be judged from the same standpoint. I think it is
because of this continual sense of a great responsibility, and the custom and necessity of
always--absolutely always--trying to play our very best game, that the leading professionals
are constantly a stroke or two better than the most skilful amateurs, even though the latter
practise the game quite as much, and have apparently just as much opportunity, or even more,
of making themselves perfect.

I have mentioned the spectators. I have generally found the crowds who follow a big professional
match round the links both highly intelligent and exceedingly considerate. But sometimes we
overhear some strange things said. Taylor and I were once fulfilling an important engagement
together, and when my opponent had a particularly difficult shot to play, two ladies came up
quite close to him and persisted in talking in a loud tone of voice. Taylor waited for a little
while in the hope that their chatter would cease, but it did not. Then, in a feeling of desperation,
he attempted to address his ball; but the task was hopeless. The conversation went on more
loudly than ever, and he was doomed to certain failure if he attempted his stroke in these
circumstances. So he stood up again, and looked round in the direction whence the voices came.
"Oh," said one of the ladies then, "you can go on now. We've quite finished." We must be thankful
for small mercies. James Braid and I were once playing down at Beckenham. At one of the putting
greens we were both a long way from the hole. My ball was a trifle the more distant of the
two, and so I played the odd, and managed to get down a wonderfully fine putt. Then Braid played
the like and holed out also. These were two rather creditable achievements with our putters.
When his ball had trickled safely into the hole, and the spectators were moving towards the
next tee, Braid and I were amused, but not flattered, by the words of a man who was speaking
to a friend in such a loud voice that we could all hear. "Oh," he exclaimed deprecatingly,
"those fellows only do that sort of thing for the sake of the applause!" How happy we should
be if we could always make certain of those long putts without any applause at all! It was
with Braid also that I was playing in a match at Luton towards the close of last year, when
I overheard a singular remark. I happened to be bunkered at the fourteenth, and took my niblick
to get out, but lost the hole. We walked on together to the next tee, and Braid was taking
his stance when we heard two gentlemen eagerly discussing and explaining the recent bunker
incident. Evidently one of them was supposed to know something of golf and the other nothing
at all. "You see," said the former to his friend, "there is really no rule in the matter at
all. Vardon or any other player could have used a shovel in that bunker and have simply shovelled
the ball over on to the other side." I was surprised that Braid got his next tee shot in so
well as he did. And how very often have I heard the question asked in the crowd, "Why do those
fellows chalk the faces of their clubs?" and how invariably has the answer been, "So that they
can see afterwards where they hit the ball!" When I write my recollection of these things,
I do not wish it to be imagined that I am making any sort of accusation against golf crowds
generally. They are excellent from all points of view; but it must inevitably happen that there
are some people among them who know little of the game, and others who do not appreciate what
a trying ordeal a hard-fought match usually is.

Such questions are often put to me as, "Vardon, what was the greatest match in which you ever
played?" or, "What was the most extraordinary occurrence you have ever seen on the links?"
and so forth. They are questions which it is difficult to answer, for is not nearly every match
that we play brimful of incident and interest, and at the time do we not regard many of the
incidents as most extraordinary? It would, then, be too serious a task to attempt a selection
from such a huge mass. But, looking back over the last few years, it seems that my £100 match
with Willie Park is that which remains uppermost in my mind, and the one that I am least likely
to forget. There was more talking and writing about it than about any other match in which
I have played. The "gallery" that followed this match was the greatest I have ever seen or
heard of. And as I am questioned also about the curious and the singular in golf, I may say
that there was a coincidence in this game that struck me at the time as being quite unusual.
In a closely-fought match it is often interesting to notice how nearly each player's ball often
follows the other. Frequently they are side by side within one or two clubs' length after the
drives from the tee. But in the first stage of this match against Park, after he had driven
a long ball from the tee at the eleventh hole, I drove and my ball pitched exactly on the top
of his! The Messrs. Hunter were kindly serving in the capacity of forecaddies, and they were
both positive upon this incident. My ball after striking his rebounded slightly, and then stopped
dead about two feet behind. Its position rather affected my follow-through, so that I duffed
my stroke and lost the hole. This record--if it was a record--was also the means of eclipsing
what I believe was another record in first-class golf. The first ten holes in this match were
halved, and it was the incident of which I have just been speaking and the duffed stroke that
followed it that led to the breaking of the sequence.

"Now, Vardon, how often have you holed out in one?" they ask me also, regardless of the fact
that this event demands not only a perfect shot but a perfect fluke, and that the professional
player is no more likely to accomplish it than anyone else. Well, I have only been guilty of
this fluke on one occasion--and that was not so very long ago--and when it happened it was
at a hole a little over two hundred yards in length. On one occasion, also, I have enjoyed
the coincidence of holing out with my mashie approach at the same hole twice in one day. That
was in the course of a tournament at Elie, in which I had the good fortune to finish first.
As it happened, Andrew Kirkaldy, who hoped to end high up in the list, was my partner for the
first round, and it came about also that he was watching me play when the holing-out process
was accomplished for the second time. Then he lifted up his hands in horror and delivered himself
of his famous remark, "Ye're enough to break the heart of an iron ox!" During the last round
of this same tournament Andrew, who was playing some holes behind me, and was then himself
in the running for the first place, was kept posted up by a friend as to my score for each
hole. He did not seem to derive much encouragement from the reports, for when the last one
was carried to him he asked the friend who brought it if he thought that there was nobody who
could play golf besides Vardon, and intimated at the same time that if anyone else brought
him any more of those tales he would strike him with his niblick! Of course we all know what
a really fine fellow is Andrew Kirkaldy, and how much poorer the golf world would be without
his presence and his constant humour.

And now I think I have holed out on the last green and this long match is finished. After all
it is better to play golf than to write or read about it. What anticipation is more gloriously
joyful than that of the man who handles his driver on the first tee on a bright morning of
the spring-time! He has all the round, and all the day, and all the spring and summer and autumn
before him. And at this moment another spring is breaking brightly, and the golf that is before
each of us promises to be as momentous and soul-satisfying as any that has gone before.

APPENDIX

THE RULES OF GOLF

     Authorised by the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews,
     revised by the Club to September 27, 1904, and in force at the date
     of publication of this work.

1. DEFINITIONS.--(a) The Game of Golf is played by two sides, each playing its own ball. A
side consists either of one or of two players. If one player play against another the match
is called a "single." If two play against two, it is called a "foursome." One player may play
against two playing one ball between them, when the match is called a "threesome." Matches
constituted as above shall have precedence of and be entitled to pass any other kind of match.

(b) The game consists in each side playing a ball from a teeing-ground into a hole by successive
strokes, and the hole is won by the side which holes its ball in fewer strokes than the opposite
side, except as otherwise provided for in the Rules. If the sides hole out in the same number
of strokes, the hole is halved.

(c) The "teeing-ground" is the starting-point for a hole, and shall be indicated by two marks
placed in a line as nearly as possible at right angles to the course.

The hole shall be 4-1/4 inches in diameter, and at least 4 inches deep.

(d) The "putting-green" is all ground within 20 yards of the hole, except hazards.

(e) A "hazard" is any bunker, water (except casual water), sand, path, road, railway, whin,
bush, rushes, rabbit scrape, fence, or ditch. Sand blown on to the grass, or sprinkled on the
course for its preservation, bare patches, sheep tracks, snow, and ice are not hazards. Permanent
grass within a hazard is not part of the hazard.

(f) "Through the green" is any part of the course except hazards and the putting-green which
is being played to.

(g) "Out of bounds" is any place outside the defined or recognised boundaries of the course.

(h) "Casual water" is any temporary accumulation of water (whether caused by rainfall or otherwise)
which is not one of the ordinary and recognised hazards of the course.

(i) A ball is "in play" as soon as the player has made a stroke at the teeing-ground in each
hole, and remains in play until holed out, except when lifted in accordance with the Rules.

(j) A ball has "moved" only if it leave its original position in the least degree, and stop
in another; but if it merely oscillate, without finally leaving its original position, it has
not "moved."

(k) A ball is "lost" if it be not found within five minutes after the search for it is begun.

(l) A "match" consists of one round of the links, unless it be otherwise agreed. If each side
win the same number of holes, the match is halved.

(m) A "stroke" is any movement of the ball caused by the player, except as provided for in
Rule 3, or any downward movement of the club made with the intention of striking the ball.

(n) A "penalty stroke" is a stroke added to the score of a side under certain rules, and does
not affect the rotation of play.

(o) The "honour" is the privilege of playing first from a teeing-ground.

(p) A player has "addressed the ball" when he has taken up his position and grounded his club,
or if in a hazard, when he has taken up his position preparatory to striking the ball.

(q) The reckoning of strokes is kept by the terms--"the odd," "two more," "three more," etc.,
and "one off three," "one off two," "the like." The reckoning of holes is kept by the terms--so
many "holes up," or "all even," and so many "to play."

2. A match begins by each side playing a ball from the first teeing-ground.

The player who shall play first on each side shall be named by his own side.

The option of taking the honour at the first teeing-ground shall be decided, if necessary, by lot.

A ball played from in front of, or outside of, or more than two club lengths behind the marks
indicating the teeing-ground, or played by a player when his opponent should have had the honour,
may be at once recalled by the opposite side, and may be re-teed without penalty.

The side which wins a hole shall have the honour at the next teeing-ground. If a hole has been
halved, the side which had the honour at the previous teeing-ground shall retain the honour.

On beginning a new match, the winner of the long match in the previous round shall have the
honour, or if the previous match was halved the side which last won a hole shall have the honour.

3. If the ball fall or be knocked off the tee in addressing it, no penalty shall be incurred,
and it may be replaced, and if struck when moving no penalty shall be incurred.

4. In a threesome or foursome the partners shall strike off alternately from the teeing-grounds,
and shall strike alternately during the play of the hole.

If a player play when his partner should have done so, his side shall lose the hole.

5. When the balls are in play, the ball further from the hole which the players are approaching
shall be played first, except as otherwise provided for in the Rules. If a player play when
his opponent should have done so, the opponent may at once recall the stroke. A ball so recalled
shall be dropped, in the manner prescribed in Rule 15, as near as possible to the place where
it lay, without penalty.

6. The ball must be fairly struck at, not pushed, scraped, nor spooned, under penalty of the
loss of the hole.

7. A ball must be played wherever it lies or the hole be given up, except as otherwise provided
for in the Rules.

8. Unless with the opponent's consent, a ball in play shall not be moved nor touched before
the hole is played out, under penalty of one stroke, except as otherwise provided for in the
Rules. But the player may touch his ball with his club in the act of addressing it, provided
he does not move it, without penalty.

If the player's ball move the opponent's ball through the green, the opponent, if he choose,
may drop a ball (without penalty) as near as possible to the place where it lay, but this must
be done before another stroke is played.

9. In playing through the green, any loose impediment (not being in or touching a hazard) which
is within a club length of the ball may be removed. If the player's ball move after any such
loose impediment has been touched by the player, his partner, or either of their caddies, the
penalty shall be one stroke. If any loose impediment (not being on the putting-green) which
is more than a club length from the ball be removed, the penalty shall be the loss of the hole.

10. Any vessel, wheel-barrow, tool, roller, grass cutter, box or similar obstruction may be
removed. If a ball be moved in so doing, it may be replaced without penalty. A ball lying on
or touching such obstruction, or on clothes, nets, or ground under repair or covered up or
opened for the purpose of the upkeep of the links, may be lifted and dropped without penalty
as near as possible to the place where it lay, but not nearer the hole. A ball lifted in a
hazard, under such circumstances, shall be dropped in the hazard.

A ball lying in a golf hole or flag hole, or in a hole made by the greenkeeper, may be lifted
and dropped without penalty as near as possible to the place where it lay, but not nearer the hole.

11. Before striking at a ball in play, the player shall not move, bend, nor break anything
fixed or growing near the ball, except in the act of placing his feet on the ground for the
purpose of addressing the ball, in soling his club to address the ball, and in his upward or
downward swing, under penalty of the loss of the hole, except as otherwise provided for in
the Rules.

12. When a ball lies in or touches a hazard, nothing shall be done to improve its lie; the
club shall not touch the ground, nor shall anything be touched or moved before the player strikes
at the ball, subject to the following exceptions:--(1) The player may place his feet firmly
on the ground for the purpose of addressing the ball; (2) in addressing the ball, or in the
upward or downward swing, any grass, bent, whin, or other growing substance, or the side of
a bunker, wall, paling, or other immovable obstacle, may be touched; (3) steps or planks placed
in a hazard by the Green Committee for access to or egress from such hazard may be removed,
and if a ball be moved in so doing, it may be replaced without penalty; (4) any loose impediments
may be removed from the putting-green; (5) the player shall be entitled to find his ball as
provided for by Rule 31. The penalty for a breach of this Rule shall be the loss of the hole.

13. A player or caddie shall not press down nor remove any irregularities of surface near a
ball in play. Dung, worm-casts, or mole-hills may be removed (but not pressed down) without
penalty. The penalty for a breach of this Rule shall be the loss of the hole.

14. (1) If a ball lie or be lost in water or in casual water in a hazard, a ball may be dropped
in or as far behind the hazard as the player may please, under penalty of one stroke; but if
it be impossible from want of space in which to play, or from any other cause, to drop the
ball behind the hazard, the player may drop a ball at the side of the hazard as near as possible
to where the ball lay, but not nearer to the hole, under penalty of one stroke. (2) If a ball
lie or be lost in casual water through the green, or if casual water through the green interferes
with the player's stance, the player may drop a ball, without penalty, within two club lengths
from the margin directly behind the place where the ball lay, or from the margin nearest to
the place where the ball lay, but not nearer to the hole. If the ball when dropped roll into
the water, or rest so that the water interferes with the player's stance, it may be re-dropped,
without penalty, as near to the margin as the nature of the ground permits, but not nearer
to the hole. (3) In dropping a ball behind the spot from which the ball was lifted, the player
shall keep that spot, or, in the case of water, the spot at which the ball entered, in a line
between himself and the hole. Wherever it is impossible to drop a ball as prescribed in sections
(1) and (2), it shall be dropped as near as possible to the place where it lay, but not nearer
to the hole. (4) If a ball lie in casual water on a putting-green, a ball may be placed by
hand behind the water without penalty. The penalty for a breach of this Rule shall be the loss
of the hole.

15. A ball shall be dropped in the following manner:--The player himself shall drop it. He
shall face the hole, stand erect and drop the ball behind him from his head. If the ball when
dropped touch the player he shall incur no penalty, and if it roll into a hazard it may be
re-dropped without penalty. The penalty for a breach of this Rule shall be the loss of the hole.

16. When the balls lie within six inches of each other on the putting-green, or within a club
length of each other through the green or in a hazard (the distance to be measured from their
nearest points), the ball nearer the hole may, at the option of either the player or the opponent,
be lifted until the other is played, and shall then be replaced as near as possible to the
place where it lay. If the ball further from the hole be moved in so doing, or in measuring
the distance, it shall be replaced without penalty. If the lie of the lifted ball be altered
by the player in playing, the ball may be placed in a lie as nearly as possible similar to
that from which it was lifted, but not nearer the hole.

17. Any loose impediments may be removed from the putting-green, irrespective of the position
of the player's ball. The opponent's ball may not be moved except as provided for by the immediately
preceding Rule. If the player's ball move after any loose impediment lying within six inches
of it has been touched by the player, his partner, or either of their caddies, the penalty
shall be one stroke.

18. When the ball is on the putting-green, the player or his caddie may remove (but not press
down) sand, earth, dung, worm-casts, mole-hills, snow, or ice lying around the hole or in the
line of his putt. This shall be done by brushing lightly with the hand only across the putt
and not along it. Dung may be removed by a club, but the club must not be laid with more than
its own weight upon the ground. The line of the putt must not be touched, except with the club
immediately in front of the ball, in the act of addressing it, or as above authorised. The
penalty for a breach of this Rule is the loss of the hole.

19. When the ball is on the putting-green, no mark shall be placed, nor line drawn as a guide.
The line of the putt may be pointed out by the player's caddie, his partner, or his partner's
caddie, but the person doing so must not touch the ground.

The player's caddie, his partner, or his partner's caddie, may stand at the hole, but no player
nor caddie shall endeavour, by moving or otherwise, to influence the action of the wind upon
the ball.

The penalty for a breach of this Rule is the loss of the hole.

20. When on the putting-green, a player shall not play until his opponent's ball is at rest,
under penalty of one stroke.

21. Either side is entitled to have the flag-stick removed when approaching the hole, but if
a player's ball strike the flag-stick which has been so removed by himself, or his partner,
or either of their caddies, his side shall lose the hole. If the ball rest against the flag-stick
when in the hole, the player shall be entitled to remove the stick, and if the ball fall in,
it shall be deemed as having been holed out at the last stroke. If the player's ball knock
in the opponent's ball, the latter shall be deemed as having been holed out at the last stroke.
If the player's ball move the opponent's ball, the opponent, if he choose, may replace it,
but this must be done before another stroke is played. If the player's ball stop on the spot
formerly occupied by the opponent's ball, and the opponent declare his intention to replace,
the player shall first play another stroke, after which the opponent shall replace and play
his ball. If the opponent's ball lie on the edge of the hole, the player, after holing out,
may knock it away, claiming the hole if holing at the like, and the half if holing at the odd,
provided that the player's ball does not strike the opponent's ball and set it in motion. If
after the player's ball is in the hole, the player neglect to knock away the opponent's ball,
and it fall in also, the opponent shall be deemed to have holed out at his last stroke.

22. If a ball in motion be stopped or deflected by any agency outside the match, or by the
forecaddie, the ball must be played from where it lies, and the occurrence submitted to as
a "rub of the green." If a ball lodge in anything moving, a ball shall be dropped as near as
possible to the place where the object was when the ball lodged in it, without penalty. If
a ball at rest be displaced by any agency outside the match, excepting wind, the player shall
drop a ball as near as possible to the place where it lay, without penalty. On the putting-green
the ball shall be replaced by hand, without penalty.

23. If the player's ball strike, or be moved by an opponent or an opponent's caddie or clubs,
the opponent shall lose the hole.

24. When a player has holed out and his opponent has been left with a putt for the half, nothing
that the player can do shall deprive him of the half which he has already gained.

25. If a player's ball strike, or be stopped by himself or his partner, or either of their
caddies or clubs, his side shall lose the hole.

26. If the player, when not intending to make a stroke, or his partner, or either of their
caddies, move his or their ball, or by touching anything cause it to move when it is in play,
the penalty shall be one stroke. If a ball in play move, after the player has grounded his
club in the act of addressing it, or, when in a hazard, if he has taken up his stand to play
it, he shall be deemed to have caused it to move, and the movement shall be counted as his stroke.

27. Except from the tee a player shall not play while his ball is moving, under penalty of
the loss of the hole. If the ball only begin to move while the player is making his upward
or downward swing, he shall incur no penalty for playing while it is moving, but is not exempted
from the penalty stroke which he may have incurred under Rules 9, 17, or 26, and in a foursome
a stroke lost under Rule 26 shall not, in these circumstances, be counted as the stroke of
the player so as to render him liable for having played when his partner should have done so.

28. If the player when making a stroke strike the ball twice, the penalty shall be one stroke,
and he shall incur no further penalty by reason of his having played while his ball was moving.

29. If a player play the opponent's ball, his side shall lose the hole, unless (1) the opponent
then play the player's ball, whereby the penalty is cancelled, and the hole must be played
out with the balls thus exchanged, or (2) the mistake occur through wrong information given
by the opponent or his caddie, in which case there shall be no penalty, but the mistake, if
discovered before the opponent has played, must be rectified by placing a ball as near as possible
to the place where the opponent's ball lay.

If a player play a stroke with the ball of a party not engaged in the match, and the mistake
be discovered and intimated to his opponent before his opponent has played his next stroke,
there shall be no penalty; but if the mistake be not discovered and so intimated until after
the opponent has played his next stroke, the player's side shall lose the hole.

30. If a ball be lost, except as otherwise provided for in the Rules, the player's side shall
lose the hole; but if both balls be lost, the hole shall be considered halved.

31. If a ball lie in fog, bent, whins, long grass, or the like, only so much thereof shall
be touched as will enable the player to find his ball; but if a ball lie in sand, the sand
shall not be touched. The penalty for a breach of this Rule shall be the loss of the hole.

32. If a ball be played out of bounds, a ball shall be dropped at the spot from which the stroke
was played, under penalty of loss of the distance. A ball played out of bounds need not be found.

If it be doubtful whether a ball has been played out of bounds, another may be dropped and
played; but if it be discovered that the first ball is not out of bounds, it shall continue
in play without penalty.

A player may stand out of bounds to play a ball lying within bounds.

33. A player shall not ask for advice from anyone except his own caddie, his partner, or his
partner's caddie, nor shall he willingly be otherwise advised in any way whatever, under penalty
of the loss of the hole.

34. If a ball split into separate pieces, another ball may be put down where the largest portion
lies; or if two pieces are apparently of equal size it may be put where either piece lies,
at the option of the player. If a ball crack or become unfit for play, the player may change
it on intimating to his opponent his intention to do so. Mud adhering to a ball shall not be
considered as making it unfit for play.

35. When no penalty for the breach of a rule is stated, the penalty shall be the loss of the hole.

36. If a dispute arise on any point, the players have the right of determining the party or
parties to whom it shall be referred, but should they not agree, either side may refer it to
the Rules of Golf Committee, whose decision shall be final. If the point in dispute be not
covered by the Rules of Golf, the arbiters must decide it by equity.

37. An umpire or referee, when appointed, shall take cognisance of any breach of rule that
he may observe, whether he be appealed to on the point or not.

SPECIAL RULES FOR STROKE COMPETITIONS.

1. In Stroke Competitions, the competitor who holes the stipulated course in fewest strokes
shall be the winner.

2. If the lowest scores be made by two or more competitors, the tie or ties shall be decided
by another round to be played on the same day. But if the Green Committee determine that to
be inexpedient or impossible, they shall then appoint the following or some subsequent day
whereon the tie or ties shall be decided.

3. New holes shall be made for Stroke Competitions, and thereafter before starting no competitor
shall play on any of the putting-greens, nor shall he intentionally play at any of the holes
nor on to any of the putting-greens, under penalty of disqualification.

4. The scores for each hole shall be kept by a special marker, or by the competitors noting
each other's scores. The scores marked ought to be called out after each hole, and on completion
of the round the cards shall be signed by the marker, under penalty of disqualification, and
handed in. Competitors must satisfy themselves before the cards are handed in that their scores
for each hole are correctly marked, as no alteration can be made on any card after it has been
returned. If it be found that a score returned is below that actually played, the competitor
shall be disqualified. For the addition of the scores marked the Secretary or his deputy shall
be responsible.

5. If a competitor play from outside the limits of the teeing-ground, the penalty shall be
disqualification.

6. If a ball be lost (except as otherwise provided for in the Rules of Golf), the competitor
shall return as near as possible to the spot from which the lost ball was struck, tee a ball,
and lose a penalty stroke. The lost ball shall continue in play, if it be found before the
player has struck another ball. The penalty for a breach of this Rule shall be disqualification.

7. If a competitor's ball strike himself, his clubs or caddie, the penalty shall be one stroke.

8. If a competitor's ball strike another competitor, or his clubs or caddie, it is a "rub of
the green," and the ball shall be played from where it lies. If a competitor's ball which is
at rest be moved by another competitor or his caddie, or his club or his ball, or by any outside
agency excepting wind, it shall be replaced as near as possible to the place, where it lay
without penalty.

9. A competitor shall hole out with his own ball at every hole, under penalty of disqualification.
But if it be discovered, before he has struck off from the next teeing-ground, or if the mistake
occur at the last hole, before he has handed in his card, that he has not holed out with his
own ball, he shall be at liberty to return and hole out with his own ball, without penalty.

10. A ball may be lifted from any place under penalty of two strokes. A ball so lifted shall
be teed if possible behind the place where it lay. If it be impossible to tee the ball behind
the place where it lay, it shall be teed as near as possible thereto, but not nearer the hole.
The penalty for a breach of this Rule shall be disqualification.

11. All balls shall be holed out under penalty of disqualification. When a competitor's ball
is within 20 yards of the hole, the competitor shall not play until the flag has been removed,
under penalty of one stroke. When both balls are on the putting-green, if the player's ball
strike the opponent's ball the player shall lose a stroke. The ball nearer the hole shall,
on request of the player, be either lifted or holed out at the option of the owner, under penalty
of his disqualification. Through the green a competitor may have any other competitor's ball
lifted, if he find that it interferes with his stroke.

12. A competitor, unless specially authorised by the Green Committee, shall not play with a
professional, and he may not willingly receive advice from any one but his caddie, in any way
whatever, under penalty of disqualification.

A forecaddie may be employed.

13. Competitors shall not discontinue play or delay to start on account of bad weather, nor
for any other reason whatever, except such as is satisfactory to the Committee of the Club
in charge of the competition. The penalty for a breach of this Rule is disqualification.

14. Where in the Rules of Golf the penalty for the breach of any Rule is the loss of the hole,
in Stroke Competitions the penalty shall be the loss of two strokes, except where otherwise
provided for in these Special Rules.

15. Any dispute regarding the play shall be determined by the Rules of Golf Committee.

16. The Rules of Golf, so far as they are not at variance with these Special Rules, shall apply
to Stroke Competitions.

RULES FOR THREE-BALL MATCHES.

In matches in which three players play against each other, each playing his own ball (hereinafter
referred to as "a three-ball match"), or in which one player plays his own ball against the
best ball of two players (hereinafter referred to as "a best ball match"), the Rules of Golf
shall apply, subject to the following modifications:--

1. Where, in a three-ball match, at any teeing-ground no player is entitled to claim the honour
from both opponents, the same order of striking shall be followed as at the previous teeing-ground.

2. Except as hereinafter provided, the side whose ball is furthest from the hole shall play
first, but a ball lying nearer the hole and belonging to one of that side may, at their option,
be played before the ball lying furthest from the hole. If a player play when his opponent
should have done so he shall incur no penalty.

3. If a player consider that an opponent's ball on the putting-green might interfere with his
stroke, he may require the opponent either to lift or to hole out his ball at the opponent's
discretion.

4. If an opponent consider that the ball of another opponent might be of assistance to the
player, he may require that it be either lifted or holed out at the other opponent's discretion.

5. If an opponent consider that his own ball might be of assistance to the player, he is entitled
to lift it or hole out at his discretion.

6. If an opponent consider that the player's partner's ball might be of assistance to the player,
he may require that it be either lifted or holed out at the player's partner's discretion.

7. In a three-ball match, a ball on the putting-green, which is moved by another ball, must
be replaced as nearly as possible where it lay.

8. In a best ball match, if a player's ball move his partner's ball or an opponent's ball,
the opponent shall in either case decide whether the moved ball shall be replaced or not.

9. As regards the other opponent, the occurrence is "a rub of the green."

10.

11. In a best ball match, if a player's ball (the player being one of a side) strike or be
stopped by himself or his partner or either of their caddies or clubs, that player only shall
be disqualified for that hole.

12. In all other cases where a player would by the Rules of Golf incur the loss of the hole,
he shall be disqualified for that hole, but the disqualification shall not apply to his partner.

ETIQUETTE OF GOLF.

1. A single player has no standing, and must always give way to a properly constituted match.

2. No player, caddie, or onlooker should move or talk during a stroke.

3. No player should play from the tee until the party in front have played their second strokes
and are out of range, nor play up to the putting-green till the party in front have holed out
and moved away.

4. The player who has the honour from the tee should be allowed to play before his opponent
tees his ball.

5. Players who have holed out should not try their putts over again when other players are
following them.

6. Players looking for a lost ball must allow other matches coming up to pass them.

7. On request being made, a three-ball match must allow a single, threesome, or foursome to
pass. Any match playing a whole round may claim the right to pass a match playing a shorter round.

8. If a match fail to keep its place on the green, and lose in distance more than one clear
hole on those in front, it may be passed, on request being made.

9. Turf cut or displaced by a stroke should be at once replaced.

10. A player should carefully fill up all holes made by himself in a bunker.

11. It is the duty of an umpire or referee to take cognisance of any breach of rule that he
may observe, whether he be appealed to on this point or not.

INDEX

 Addressing the ball, 62, 81, 171, 173.

 Alps at Prestwick, 222.

 Amateur Championship. See Championship.

 Amateur golf in Great Britain, 233, 234.

 America, golf in, 232, 234;
   tour in, 235;
   spectators in, 238;
   novel experiences in, 242, 243, 244.

 American Championship, 23, 235, 241.

 Anson, American baseball player, and golf, 240.

 Approach play. See Mashie, play with the.

 Arms, action of the, in driving, 67, 69, 72.

 Ashburnham links, 227.

 Auchterlonie, Willie, 13, 15.

 Backward swing in the drive, 65, 68, 173, 174.

 Baffy, possibilities of play with, 83;
   stance for, 83.

 Balfour, Mr. A.J., how he learned golf, 30;
   anecdotes by, 252;
   preference in caddies, 253;
   and "Big Crawford," 254;
   interesting compliment, 255.

 Ball, clean, 170;
   rubber-cored. See Rubber-cored balls.

 Ball, Mr. John, jun., 223, 234, 260.

 Beckenham, incident at, 263.

 Beginners, advice to, 25.

 Beginning, Vardon's, at golf, 2, 4;
   first clubs, 5;
   first matches, 6;
   how he learned, 8.

 Berwick, North, 17, 21, 225, 245, 247, 254.

 "Big Crawford," 254.

 Birth, Vardon's, 2.

 Blyth, Mr. Edward, 256.

 Body action in following through, 71.

 Boomer, Mr. (Schoolmaster), 3.

 Boots and shoes, 167.

 Braces and belts, 166.

 Brae Burn, match at, 235.

 Braid, James, 96, 260, 263, 264.

 Brancaster links, 228.

 Brassy, play with in Championship, 23.

 ---- the, points of, 44, 49, 79.

 ---- play with the, first attempts, 32;
   occasion for, 78;
   stance for, 79, 80;
   from good lie, 80;
   from cuppy lie, 80, 81.

 Brewster, Mr., at Jersey, 4.

 Broadwood, Mr. C.C., 21.

 Brown, D., 14.

 Bunkers and bunker play, 131;
   mistakes in regard to, 133;
   swing with niblick in, 136;
   long balls from, 138;
   filling holes in, 175.

 Bury Golf Club, professional to, 12.

 Butcher, Mr. S.F. (Bury), 12.

 Caddie, advice of, 171;
   opponent's, 175;
   anecdotes of, 245 et seq.;
   the ideal, 248;
   girls as, 249;
   caustic humour of, 250;
   human kindness of, 254;
   excess of zeal of, 257;
   sorrows of, 258.

 Campbell, Willie, 259.

 Care of clubs, 50.

 Carnoustie, merits of course, 225.

 Championship, the Amateur, 233, 234.

 ---- the American, 23.

 ---- the Open, 3, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 20, 23, 248.

 Cleek, the, varieties of and characteristics, 46, 49, 99.

 ---- play with the, first attempts, 33;
   versatility of, 99;
   stance, 103;
   swing, 104;
   push shot with, 105;
   shot for low ball against wind, 108;
   comparison of different shots, 108.

 Clothes for golf, 166.

 Clubs, golf (implements), 37;
   first purchases, 38;
   limitations, 40;
   care of, 50;
   for different strokes, 168;
   experiments in competitions, 184.

 Competition play, disappointments in, 177;
   steadiness in, 178;
   continuing
   with card, 179;
   tactics in, 181;
   caution in medal play, 182;
   new clubs, 184;
   time of play, 186;
   watching opponents, 187.

 Counting strokes, 167.

 Course, studying in competition play, 183;
   construction of. See Links.

 Cox, Mr. Charles S., 240.

 Cricket, 3.

 Cromer links, 228.

 Crowds, great golfing, 21.

 Cruden Bay links, 225.

 Cupped lies, play from, 81.

 Cut stroke, the, with the mashie, 127.

 Deal, tournament at, 15;
   merits of links at, 228.

 "Debauchery of long driving," 52.

 Despair, golfer's, 26.

 Diagrams, explanation of, 57.

 Divots, replacing, 175.

 Dogwood heads, 42.

 Dollymount links, 226.

 Dornoch links, 225.

 Driver, the, points of, 40;
   scared and socketed clubs, 41;
   heads of, 42;
   length and weight, 49, 53;
   loft on face of, 54.

 ---- play with, first attempts, 32;
   long balls with, 35, 36, 52, 75;
   pleasure of, 53;
   stance, 55, 56, 57;
   the grip, 58;
   the address, 62;
   backward swing, 64;
   follow-through, 71;
   faulty driving, 72;
   summary of advice, 77;
   intentional pulling and slicing with, 85.

 Dunn, Tom, 22, 30, 254, 259.

 Dunn, Willie, 236, 237.

 Dwelling at the tarn, 68.

 Etiquette of golf, 161, 164, 165, 175, 277.

 Excuses, golfer's, 26.

 Experiments in golf, 172.

 Eye on the ball, how and where to keep, 63, 65, 169.

 Eyesight, defective, 174.

 Faces, artificial, to wooden clubs, 42.

 Findlay, American golfer, 242.

 Finish of swing, 72, 173.

 Florida, golf in, 236, 241.

 Follow-through, the, in the drive, 71.

 Football at Ganton, 3.

 Formby links, 228.

 Foursomes, partners in, 171;
   old style, 188;
   four-ball, 189;
   tactics in, 190;
   sociability of, 191;
   mutual understanding in, 192;
   junior partner in, 193;
   handicapping in, 195;
   classical story of, 196.

 Freaks of style, 62.

 Frosty weather, play in, 167.

 Ganton, professional at, 15;
   match with Willie Park at, 22;
   caddies at, 246;
   international foursome at, 260.

 Gloves, 168.

 Greens, putting, gauging strength of, 158;
   etiquette and policy on, 165;
   damaging, 175.

 Grips, Vardon's overlapping, 59;
   the two-V, 59;
   tightness of, 60;
   thickness of handle, 168.

 Grouville, 2;
   golf introduced to, 3.

 Gullane links, 226.

 Hands, right and left, grip with, 59, 60, 61;
   variations of tightness, 61.

 Harlech, links at, 227.

 Head still, keeping the, 65, 172.

 Herd, Alexander, 12, 14, 15, 260.

 Hilton, Mr. Harold, 234.

 Himalayas at Prestwick, 222.

 Hints, general, 160.

 Hoods for golf-bags, 50.

 Hoylake, merits of course, 223;
   best holes at, 224.

 Huddersfield links, 231.

 Hunstanton links, 228.

 Hunter, the brothers, 21, 265.

 Huntercombe links, merits of, 230.

 Ilkley, 14.

 Impact, moment of, 69, 70.

 Improving one's game, 163.

 Inland golf, 229.

 Ireland, links in, 226 et seq.

 Iron, the, points of, 47, 49, 113.

 ---- play with the, first attempts, 33;
   time for, 113;
   stance for, 114;
   swing, 115;
   relation of swing to distance, 116.

 Islay, splendid links at, 225;
   most difficult hole, 226.

 Jersey, golf at, 2, 4.

 Jersey Golf Club, Royal, 4.

 Jigger, the, use of, 130.

 Kay, James, 17.

 Kilmalcolm, tournament at, 13.

 Kilspindie links, 226.

 Kingsbury, Lord, 257.

 Kirkaldy, Andrew, 13, 14, 19, 142, 266.

 Kirkaldy, Hugh, 13, 14.

 Ladies, faults of, 71;
   freedom on links, 198;
   improvement of ladies' play, 199;
   keenness of American, 200;
   good pupils, 201;
   same game as men's, 201;
   swing for, 201;
   clubs for, 202;
   bad upward swings, 203;
   need for tuition, 204.

 Lahinch links, 226.

 Laidlay, Mr. J.E., 223.

 Lawrence Harbour (U.S.), match at, 237.

 Leach, Henry, vi.

 Learn golf, how to, 25.

 Leather faces, 42.

 Length of clubs, 48, 49.

 Lie of clubs, 45.

 Lindrick links, 231.

 Links, on construction of, 205;
   made in a hurry, 205;
   long handicap men's links, 206;
   time and study needed, 206;
   maturing of, 206;
   land required for, 207;
   preliminary survey of, 208;
   clearing of land, 209;
   "penny wise and pound foolish," 209;
   experimental drives, 210;
   short holes, 210;
   varieties of holes, 211;
   too lengthy, 212;
   direction of course, 213;
   position of bunkers, 213;
   class of player to suit, 213;
   bunkers at the side, 215;
   undulating greens, 216;
   double tees, 217;
   the best links, 219 et seq.;
   superiority of Sandwich, 220.

 Littlestone links, 228.

 Lloyd, Joseph, 15.

 London links, 230.

 Long heads, 43.

 Lowe, George (St. Anne's-on-Sea), 9, 10.

 Luffness links, 226, 254.

 Lunch, golfer's, 169.

 Luton, incident at, 264.

 Machrihanish links, 225.

 Maiden at Sandwich, 222.

 Manchester links, 231.

 Mashie, the, points of, 47, 49, 119.

 ---- play with the, first attempts, 33,
   value of good, 119;
   varieties of, 120;
   stance for ordinary shot, 121;
   the swing, 122;
   danger of scooping, 124;
   taking a divot, 124;
   the running-up shot, 125;
   the cut stroke, 127;
   stance for, 128;
   points of, 129;
   chip on the green, 129;
   the jigger, 130;
   mashie on the putting green, 155.

 Mashie, the driving, 49, 100.

 ---- ---- play with, 100;
   difficulties of, 101.

 Master stroke in golf, 85.

 Match play, 171, 172, 180.

 Medal play, 178, 181, 182, 183;
   rules, 274.

 Middle-aged golfers, 29.

 Mid-Surrey links, 230.

 Molesworth, Mr., at Jersey, 7.

 Money matches, 22.

 Morris, Old Tom, 22, 23, 149.

 Morris, Young Tom, 23, 259.

 Mount Zion at Islay, 226.

 Muirfield, first Championship at, 16, 19;
   merits of course and best holes, 224.

 Nails in boots and shoes, 166.

 Nervousness, 9, 12.

 Newcastle (co. Down) links, 226.

 Newquay links, 228.

 Niblick, the, points of, 47, 49, 135;
   swing with, in bunker, 136.

 Nicholls, Bernard, matches with, 235, 239.

 North Berwick. See Berwick, North.

 Novelties, avoidance of, 168.

 Oakland (U.S.), 237.

 Oiling clubs, 50.

 One-armed golfer, 27.

 Open Championship. See Championship.

 Opponent, one's attitude towards, 161.

 Ormonde, match at, 235.

 Over-golfed, 186.

 Overlapping grip, 59.

 Park, Willie, senior, 259.

 Park, Willie, junior, 20, 21, 148, 230, 260, 264.

 Pau, visit to, 15.

 Persimmon heads, 42.

 Photographs, vi.

 Pivoting of the body, on the waist, 67.

 ---- on the toes, 68.

 Pleasures of golf, 1, 29, 32, 53, 266.

 Point Comfort, match at, 236.

 Pointgarry out, Mr. Balfour at, 255.

 Portland (U.S.), novel experience at, 242.

 Portmarnock, merits of links, 226.

 Portrush, tournament at, 13;
   merits of links, 226.

 Practice, early system of, 32;
   amount of, 35.

 Pressing, 75, 173.

 Prestwick, 13, 20, 23;
   best holes at, 222.

 Professional golfers, money matters, 22;
   difficulties of, 261.

 Professional tuition, 30.

 Pulling, causes of, 67, 71, 73, and Plates X. and XI.;
   method of intentional, 91;
   in a cross wind, 92.

 Purves, Dr., at Jersey, 7.

 Push shot, the, 105;
   advantage of, 106.

 Putter, the, points of, 47, 49, 146.

 Putting, a curious experience, 18;
   first attempts, 33;
   confidence in, 142;
   no rule for, 143;
   the natural stance, 144;
   the grip, 147;
   hitting the ball, 148;
   the swing, 148;
   on being up, 148;
   on undulating greens, 150;
   borrowing from slopes, 151;
   the cut stroke, 152;
   down steep inclines, 154;
   use of mashie, 155;
   playing stymies, 156;
   running through, 157;
   gauging strength of greens, 158;
   etiquette and policy, 165.

 Redan, the, 256.

 Redcar links, 228.

 Regrets, golfer's, 28.

 Reserve clubs, 45.

 Ribbed faces to iron clubs, advantages of, 102.

 Ripon, golf at, 10.

 Risks, on taking, 162.

 Robertson, Allan, 22, 259.

 Rubber-cored balls, life of, 170.

 Rules of golf, 167, 267.

 Running-up approaches, 125.

 Rye links, 228.

 St. Andrews, 15;
   merits of course and best holes, 224.

 ---- style of play, 64.

 St. Anne's links, 228.

 St. David's, Royal, links, 227.

 St. George's Golf Club, Royal, Sandwich, 3.

 Sandwich, 3, 14, 23;
   the best course, 220;
   reasons for selection, 221;
   best holes at, 221, 222.

 Sandy Parlour at Deal, 228.

 Sayers, Ben, 18, 19.

 Scared clubs, advantage of, over socketed, 41.

 Scarsdale (U.S.), match at, 236.

 Scotland, links in, 222 et seq.

 Seaside courses, advantages of, 229.

 Seaton Carew links, 228.

 Shafts of clubs, 43.

 Sheffield links, 231.

 Sheringham links, 228.

 Shoes, golfing, 166.

 Shoulder, right, movement of, 66;
   dropping, 74.

 Simpson, Archie, 15.

 Skidding with iron clubs, 102;
   with driver, 168.

 Slicing, cause of, 67, 69, 72;
   how to find, 73, Plate XII.;
   method of intentional, 87;
   distant slice, 88;
   short slice, 89.

 "Slow back," 64.

 Smith, Will, American champion, 238, 241.

 Smoking, on, 185.

 Spectators at golf matches, 263.

 Speed of the club, 69.

 Spofforth, Major (Jersey), 9.

 Spoon. See Baffy.

 Strath, David, 259.

 Stroke competitions, rules for, 274.

 Studley Royal Golf Club, Ripon, professional to, 11.

 Stymies, playing, 156;
   running through, 157.

 Successes in competitions, 9.

 Sunningdale links, merits of, 229.

 Swaying during stroke, 67.

 Swinging, first attempts at, 31.

 Tait, Lieut. Fred, 21, 223, 234, 260.

 Taylor, J.H., 15, 16, 240, 241, 260, 263.

 Tee, the, for the ball, 54;
   disadvantage of high tee, 55;
   low tee with wind, 172.

 Teeing grounds, 217.

 Three-ball matches, 276.

 Tightness of grip, 61.

 Tobacco and golf, 185.

 Trafford Park links, 231.

 Training, on, 185.

 Travis, Mr. Walter J., 233.

 Troon, merits of course, 225.

 Turf, replacing, 175.

 Two-V grip, 59, 62.

 Upward swing. See Backward swing

 V, two-, grip, 59, 62.

 Vardon family, the, 2.

 Vardon, Fred, 3.

 Vardon, Tom, 3, 4, 9, 10, 15, 17, 23, 260.

 Waggling the club, 63.

 Wales, links in, 227.

 Wallasey links, 228.

 Walton Heath links, merits of, 229.

 Washington (U.S.), match at, 244.

 Weather, wet, care of clubs in, 50, 168.

 Weight of body, how balanced, 67, 70.

 Weight of club, 44, 49.

 Westward Ho! merits of links, 227.

 Wheaton links at Chicago, 238, 241.

 Whip of shafts, 43, 44.

 White, Jack, 260.

 Wind, play in a, 92;
   pulling in a cross, 94;
   driving against, 95;
   driving with, 96;
   low tee with, 172.

 Wrists, action of the, 66, 70.

 ---- mistaken notions concerning, 70.

 Yorkshire championships, 231.

 Printed by
 MORRISON & GIBB LIMITED
 Edinburgh.