    We hear from Newport, Rhode Island, That Capt. Carpenter was
    arrived there from the Coast of Guinea, having had 104 Days
    Passage, ten Days whereof they were without Meat, but had a
    Sufficiency of Rice and Corn. They lost but six Slaves out
    of 69 they bro't out with them.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 5th of November "the gunpowder treason and plot" was formerly pretty generally remembered,--by
the boys, at least, who made bonfires and burned tar-barrels. We believe the custom has fallen
into disuse except in Salem and Marblehead, where there seems to be a little "Colonialism"
left. As recently as 1885 the writer saw a bonfire in honor of the occasion on a hill near
the latter place. In 1762 there must have been quite a demonstration, if we can judge anything
by a vote of the town of Boston. Englishmen visiting us have sometimes expressed astonishment
at learning that this curious custom should still be kept up here, while it had been abolished
at home.

    Upon a motion made, Voted, That the Town will take all
    proper Measures, by keeping in their Children and Servants,
    & other Ways, to prevent the Disturbances which have
    sometimes happened on or about the 5th Day of November.

             Attest,
                  William Cooper, Town-Clerk.

    Tuesday last (5th November) being the Anniversary of the
    happy Deliverance of the British Nation from the Popish
    Powder Plot, at Noon the Guns at Castle William and at the
    Batteries in this Town were fired: At One all the nine Men
    of War then in this Harbour also fired.

                      From the Essex Gazette, Nov. 12, 1771.

The accommodation offered for travel between Boston and New York before the Revolution must
have been slim enough, judging from an advertisement in the "Boston Gazette" in 1761. Passengers
then went by vessel from Providence; that is, "Gentlemen Passengers." Whether ladies were accommodated
or not, does not appear; but perhaps they were in the habit of going by stage, taking a week
or so to accomplish the journey, or, more than likely, few ever travelled at all in those times.
In our day, when every one is on the move, it is hard to realize this state of things.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Notice is Given, That SAMUEL and WILLIAM CHACE, of
    Providence, have a suitable Vessel that goes steadily
    between there and New-York. So that all Gentlemen
    Passengers and others that incline to take the Rout from
    Boston to New-York, or from New-York to Boston, may
    be well accommodated.

                                    Providence, Aug. 29, 1761.

"In 1756," Watson says, "the first stage was started between Philadelphia and New York by Mr.
Butler; three days through in summer time, five and six in winter. In 1765 a second stage was
started, to go through positively in three days. This was a covered Jersey wagon,--fare, twopence
per mile. In 1766 another stage, called the 'Flying Machine,' was started, to go through in
two days,--threepence per mile."

       *       *       *       *       *

A brief account of Montreal in the "Boston Gazette," March 30, 1761.

                        NEW-YORK, March 23.

                Extract of a Letter from Montreal.

    ----"The Case of the poor Canadians is really deplorable,
    occasioned by the bankruptcy of the crown of France. Many of
    them who had, with great danger and labour, acquired estates
    worth 20,000 l. sterl. by the fur-trade, or otherwise, can
    now scarce procure a dinner. All their remittances from
    their mother country, consisted in bills on the French King,
    which are not now worth one farthing, as no body whatever
    will accept of them in payment. It is computed there is
    above the value of 3,000,000 l. sterling of these useless
    paper scraps, circulated through the colony, which, as a
    reward to the wretched inhabitants for all their hardships
    and fatigues, must now supply the place of affluence and
    independence. Most, if not all of them, are perfectly
    reconciled to the British government, as they can now with
    security enjoy any little property they have; whereas
    formerly, Governor Vaudreuil made no ceremony of seizing the
    produce of their lands, their merchandize and manufactures
    of every kind, and after conveying them to the King's store
    houses, paid to the proprietors any price he pleased. If the
    owners thereafter had occasion for any of their own
    commodities, they could not procure them under twenty times
    the price they had received.

    "Montreal in general is a well built town, but incapable of
    any defence. The churches are elegant, and the houses of
    some of their principal men are really magnificent; though
    few in number. The Hotel Dieu is by far the finest hospital
    I ever saw, every thing in it is extremely neat and
    convenient.

    "The people here are extravagantly fond of dress; a stranger
    would take Montreal to be a city inhabited by none but the
    rich and idle: they are all finely powdered, walk with their
    hats under their arms, and wear long coats, adorned with
    tinsel lace, and buttoned down to the extremity. Since I
    came here, I have not seen one man dressed like a tradesman.
    The ladies in general are handsome, extremely gay, and well
    bred."

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1767 the best soap and "dipt" and "mould" candles were sold at the post-office in Boston,
according to an advertisement in the "Gazette" of October 26. The candles were made of tallow,
and gave but little light, requiring almost constant snuffing. Other kinds of candles were
not in general use in New England in the last century. Sperm oil and sperm or wax candles could
be used only by the wealthy. Many families, for economy, made their own candles. This practice
was common in New England down to within fifty years.

It will be recollected that Dr. Franklin's father was a tallow-chandler in Boston, and that
the Doctor himself worked at the business when a boy. Elizabeth Franklin, whose name appears
in the following advertisement, was probably a relative of the family.

       *       *       *       *       *

                            SOLD BY
                     Elizabeth Franklin,
                      At the Post-Office,

    THE best true Crown Soap, Alicant best hard Soap, by the
    Doz. or single Pound, dipt and mould Candles at the lowest
    Price.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every week the burials and baptisms in Boston were thus inserted in the papers. The following
is from the "Gazette" of Nov. 23, 1767:--

    Buried in the Town of Boston since our last, Five Whites.
    Three Blacks. Baptiz'd in the several Churches, Four.

       *       *       *       *       *

This custom was continued many years. We take the following from the "Massachusetts Centinel,"
April 2, 1788:--

    BURIED in town last week 11--BAPTISED 14.

    Published by BENJAMIN RUSSELL, near the State-House, Boston.

       *       *       *       *       *

General Wolfe's Manifesto from the "Boston Gazette," Dec. 10, 1759.

    As the Manifesto lately published was only a Translation
    from a French Manuscript, we are requested to publish the
    following, which is

                  General WOLFE's Manifesto,
                    as written by Himself.

    THE formidable Sea and Land Armament which the People of
    Canada now behold in the Heart of their Country is
    intended by the King my Master to check the insolence of
    France;--To revenge the Insults offered to the British
    Colonies, and totally deprive the French of their most
    valuable Settlements in North-America.

    For these Purposes only is the Formidable Army under my
    Command intended.

    The King of Great-Britain wages no War with the
    Industrious Peasant, the sacred Orders of Religion, or the
    defenceless Women and Children: To these in their
    distressful Circumstances His Royal Clemency offers
    Protection. The People may remain unmolested on their Lands,
    inhabit their Houses, and enjoy their Religion in Security.
    For these inestimable Blessings, I expect the Canadians
    will take no Part in the Great Contest between the two
    Crowns; But if by a vain Obstinacy, and misguided Valour,
    they presume to appear in Arms, they must expect the most
    fatal Consequences; their Habitations destroyed, their
    sacred Temples exposed to the Fury of an exasperated
    Soldiery; their Harvest utterly ruined, and the only Passage
    of Relief stopped up by a most formidable Fleet.--In this
    unhappy Situation, and closely attacked by another great
    Army, what can the wretched Natives expect from Opposition!

    THE unparelelled Barbarities exerted by the French against
    our Settlements in America, might justify the bitterest
    Revenge in the Army under my Command; but Britons breathe
    higher Sentiments of Humanity, and listen to the merciful
    Dictates of the Christian Religion. Yet should you suffer
    yourselves to be deluded by an imaginary Prospect of our
    want of Success; should you refuse those Terms, and persist
    in Opposition; Then surely will the Law of Nations justify
    the Waste of War, so necessary to crush an ungenerous Enemy:
    and Then, the miserable Canadians must in the Winter have
    the Mortification of seeing those very Families, they have
    been exerting a fruitless and indiscreet Bravery for, perish
    by the most dismal Want and Famine.

    In this great Dilemma let the Wisdom of the People of
    Canada shew itself!

    BRITAIN stretches out a powerful, yet a merciful Hand,
    Faithful to her Engagements, and ready to secure them in
    their most valuable Rights and Possessions.

    FRANCE, unable to support Canada, deserts her Cause at
    this important Crisis, and during the whole War has assisted
    her with Troops, who have been maintained only by making
    the Natives feel all the Weight of grievous and lawless
    Oppression.

                                                    JAMES WOLFE.

       *       *       *       *       *

                                    Boston, November 2, 1761.

    Last Evening, just at Eight o'Clock, this Town was alarmed
    with the Shock of an EARTHQUAKE.

                                                   Gazette.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 15th of August, 1763, the "Boston Post-Boy" gives the following account of the celebration
of a royal birthday:--

                      BOSTON, August 15.

    On Friday being the Birth-Day of the Prince of Wales, and
    the Anniversary of the Accession of the House of Hanover,
    and also of the Surrender of the Havanna, which was the
    immediate Means of bringing about the Peace; at One o'Clock
    the Guns at the Castle and Town Batteries were Fired; and in
    the Evening his Excellency the Governor gave a Ball at
    Concert Hall. There were present about 240 Gentlemen and
    Ladies; the Ball was opened by General Shirley and the
    Governor's Lady about 8 o'Clock; the Country Dances began
    about nine, and about ten a Supper Room was opened, where
    was a very handsome Collation. The Ladies made a brilliant
    Appearance, and the Company expressed the highest Pleasure
    and Satisfaction on the Occasion, and broke up about two in
    the Morning. The whole was conducted with the greatest
    Order, Elegance and Decorum.

       *       *       *       *       *

The great military "occasion" of those days was the annual parade of the Ancient and Honorable
Artillery Company. In June, 1763, that Company celebrated its one hundred and twenty-fifth
anniversary. In the "Boston Post-Boy" of June 13 we have this account:--

    Monday last, agreeable to ancient Custom, the Artillery
    Company of the Province, appeared under Arms, being the
    Anniversary of the Election of Officers for the Company: A
    Sermon was preached by the Rev'd Mr. Balch of Dedham, at
    the Old Brick Meeting-House, where his Excellency the
    Governor, the Members of his Majesty's Council and House of
    Representatives, with a Number of other Gentlemen, attended;
    after which they proceeded to Faneuil-Hall, where an elegant
    Dinner was provided; and in the Afternoon the following
    Gentlemen were chosen for the ensuing Year, viz.

                 Thomas Marshall, Esq; Captain,
                 Mr. Josiah Waters, Lieutenant,
                 Mr. Jeremiah Belknap, Ensign.

    In the Evening a plentiful Repast was given by the Officers
    newly elected, at Faneuil-Hall; where many loyal Healths
    were drank.

       *       *       *       *       *

After the great fire in Boston in March, 1760, this item appeared in the "Gazette" of May 19:--

    We hear that Charles Ward Apthorp, Esq; of N.-York,
    Merchant, upon hearing of the Calamity which had befallen
    this Town by the late dreadful Fire, generously ordered his
    Agent here to pay to the Gentlemen appointed to receive the
    Donations of charitable dispos'd Persons the Sum of One
    Hundred Pounds, L.M. for the Relief of the Sufferers.

Mr. Apthorp, of New York, made this generous donation--a large sum for that time--for the relief
of the sufferers of his native place.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 30th of March, 1761, the "Boston Gazette" prints the following among its items of news:--

    The following Proverbs we hope will not be disregarded,
    tho' taken from a Book in the Hands of almost every
    Freeholder in this Province; for they are true English
    Proverbs----

    LOOK before you leap--Wise Men think twice before they act
    once--Avoidance is better than late Repentance--Put your
    Hand in the Lion's Mouth, then get it out if you can--Haste
    makes Waste--Fast bind fast find--A Wedge once enter'd, the
    Log flies--You may add, when you cannot take away--Cut your
    Coat according to your Cloth--A rash Beginning makes a
    foolish Ending--Better late than never--He that acts for
    others, should act with Caution--Once well done is twice
    done--A wise Man foreseeth the Storm and secureth
    himself----Of all Murderers, Self-Murderers are the most
    stupid--A Snake in the Grass may bite before it is seen.

           A Word to the Wise is sufficient. AMEN.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOSTON IN OLDEN TIMES.--The "Boston Transcript," in a notice of the newspapers published in
Boston in 1767, of which there were ten, says: The printer in those days was a man of "all
work." If a negro or horse was up for sale, the printer was the seller. The advertisements
in these old papers are curiosities in their line.

    "To be sold by the Printer of this Paper, a negro man about
    thirty years old, who can do both town and country business
    very well, but will suit the country best, where they have
    not so many dram-shops as we have in Boston. He has worked
    at the printing business fifteen or sixteen years; can
    handle axe, saw, spade, hoe, or other instrument of
    husbandry, as well as most men, and values himself, and is
    valued by others, for his skill in cookery."

       *       *       *       *       *

This item, from a paper of 1767, seems to show that the Government was not then obliged to
have a "bill" to uphold silver, for it was evidently in the ascendency; but there was no Western
territory at that time, or rather, it had not been discovered.

    Gold as well as Silver will be taken for the Tickets, and
    the Prizes paid off in like Manner. Prizes not demanded
    within Twelve Months after Drawing, will not be paid, but
    will be deem'd as generously given for the Purpose
    aforesaid, and applied accordingly.

    Tickets to be had of the respective Managers, and of Edes
    and Gill.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fashionable weddings in the days of the spinning-wheel were not so fully described as they
are at the present day. Nothing used to be said about the "magnificent dresses," "best man,"
"ushers," "contracting parties," "elegant presents," etc., etc.; there was a simple announcement
of the fact. Here are specimens of marriage announcements,--persons belonging to the first
families in Boston.

                 "Boston Gazette," Feb. 5, 1759.

    Last Thursday Morning, was married at King's-Chappel, Dr.
    THOMAS BULFINCH, Son of the late Dr. BULFINCH of this Town,
    to Mrs. SUSAN APTHORPE, Daughter of the late CHARLES
    APTHORPE, Esq; The Rev'd Mr. APTHORPE perform'd the
    Ceremony, before a very great Number of Spectators.

       *       *       *       *       *

               "Columbian Centinel," March 26, 1788.

    ----Mr. THOMAS H. PERKINS, merchant, to Miss SALLY ELLIOT,
    only daughter of Mr. SIMON ELLIOT.

       *       *       *       *       *

                    "Gazette," Jan. 26, 1767.

                    BOSTON, January 26, 1767.

    Tuesday the Honorable JOHN TEMPLE, Esq; Surveyor-General of
    North-America, was married to Miss BOWDOIN, Daughter of the
    Honorable JAMES BOWDOIN, Esq; of this Town.

       *       *       *       *       *

Specimen of a house in "Corn-Hill," from the "Post-Boy," May 7, 1763.

                          TO BE SOLD,

    A Large and Commodious Brick Dwelling-House, pleasently
    scituated in Corn-Hill: For further particulars Enquire of
    Green & Russell Printers in Queen-street.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "Virginia Gazette" gives an account of an early and bold attempt at British impressment
of seamen. This business caused us a great deal of trouble in after years, and was one of the
causes of "Madison's War," as the old people were fond of calling it.

The press-gang was one of the peculiar institutions of Great Britain.

                                       BOSTON, October 26, 1767.

    By the Virginia Gazette, of the first Instant, it appears
    that Captain Morgan, of the Hornet Sloop of War, concerted a
    bloody riotous Plan, to impress Seamen, at Norfolk, for
    which Purpose, his Tender was equipped with Guns and Men,
    and under Cover of the Night said Morgan landed at a public
    Wharff, having first made proper Dispositions either for an
    Attack or Retreat, then went to a Tavern, and took a
    chearful Glass, after which they went to work, and took
    every Person they met with, and knocked all down that
    resisted; and dragged them on board the Tender; but the Town
    soon took the Alarm, and being headed by Paul Loyal, Esq; a
    Magistrate, they endeavoured to convince Capt. Morgan of his
    Error, and being deaf to all they said he ordered the People
    in the Tender to fire on the Inhabitants, but they refused
    to obey their Commanders Orders, and he was soon obliged to
    fly, leaving some of the Hornets behind, who were sent to
    Gaol, but were afterwards released.

Mr. John Ashton, in his recently published work on "Social Life in England at the end of the
Eighteenth Century," informs us that one evening in the year 1790, 2,100 men were pressed in
London alone, besides many more at the seaport towns.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the summer of 1762 there was a severe drought in Massachusetts, and the Governor issued
a proclamation recommending public prayers for rain; but it will be noticed that he says if
rain should come before the day set apart for prayers, then, instead of humiliation, it would
be the duty of the people to make it a day of thanksgiving. The proclamation referred to was
published in the "Boston Post-Boy" of July 13, 1762.

                            A PROCLAMATION

                    For a Day of Public Prayer.

    IT having pleased Almighty God to visit this Province with
    another severe Drought, which, if it should continue much
    longer, cannot fail of bringing great Distress upon the
    Inhabitants thereof--We are again called upon to supplicate
    the Interposition of Divine Providence to relieve this
    Country from the imminent Danger with which it is threatned,
    by dispensing timely and plentiful Rain.

    I HAVE therefore thought fit to appoint, and I do, by and
    with the Advice of His Majesty's Council, appoint Wednesday
    the Twenty-eighth Day of this Instant July to be a Day of
    Public Prayer throughout the Province: Whereon the whole
    People may as at one Time humble themselves before Almighty
    God, acknowledging their great Unworthiness, and confessing
    their manifold Sins, and imploring the Supreme Dispenser of
    all Good, that He would be graciously pleased not to
    with-hold from them the Fruits of the Earth, but by
    seasonable and refreshing Rains bring what yet remains
    undestroyed to a due and seasonable Maturity.

    AND WHEREAS some Places have been exempted from the general
    Want of Rain; and it is to be hoped that before the Day
    appointed as aforesaid, many others, and possibly the whole
    Province, may have a gracious and timely Relief: It will be
    our Duty to intermix Thanksgiving with Humiliation, in such
    a Manner as the State of the Province, and particular Parts
    thereof, shall at that Time require.

    And I do order the said Day to be observed as a Day set
    apart for Religious Worship, and that no servile Labour or
    Recreation be permitted thereon. Bernard.

    By His Excellency's Command,
      A. OLIVER, Secr'y.
        GOD Save the KING.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fire-works to be "play'd off," Aug. 13, 1759. From the "Boston Gazette."

    The Publick REJOICINGS in Town this Day, on Account of the
    Success of His Majesty's Arms in the Reduction of
    Ticonderoga, Niagara and Crown-Point, by the Troops under
    the Command of the victorious General AMHERST, are now
    beginning--A great Number of People have been employ'd in
    making Fire-Works, &c. which will be play'd off this
    Evening, when there will be a handsome illumination.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "Post-Boy" of November 15 of that year prints the following:--

                      NEW-YORK, November 15.

    The Ships Manchester and Edward, that arrived here lately
    from London, brought over no less than 206 Chests of Green
    and Bohea Teas, for the different Merchants of this City.

    Since our last two Vessels arrived here from Ireland, with
    about 2000 Firkins of choice Irish Butter, which we hope
    will bring down the Price of that Article.

       *       *       *       *       *

We get an idea of men's clothing in 1767 from the following:--

