The American section located in the northeastern part of the building, comprised a collection
par excellence of elegant paintings, masterpieces from the best artists of this country. Very
interesting was the retrospective art exhibit in this department; illustrating the various
stages in the development of American art, from its incipiency to the present perfection.

The remaining space in the eastern pavilion was taken up by the French division, which--we
acknowledged unanimously--contained the most laudable contribution made by a foreign nation.

Great Britain's select display, representing some of its great artists, constituted the most
extensive foreign section next to France.

German art was represented by 580 fine paintings, including all the German schools that have
gained celebrity; as the Bavarian in Munich--the Saxon in Dresden--and many others.--Holland,
Belgium, Russia, Spain, Austria, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Canada had their share
in the splendid effect, likewise.

The Japanese showing, elucidating the style of art, peculiar to that skillful nation, was very
attractive and novel.

If we trace back the records of the previous international expositions, we cannot find any
report giving account of a similar collection representing modern works of art. In consequence
of political causes, France had seldom made contributions to any but her own expositions. But
the United States, not fostering hostility with any nation, was universally assisted in her
gigantic enterprise.

The Art Palace environed groups and figures in marble and bronze, and other sculptural master-pieces--paintings
in oil and water colors, on ivory, enamel, metal, and porcelain--fresco paintings on walls--
engravings--etchings--pastel and many studies in chalk and charcoal; in short, every description
of modern progress in this direction, even to excellent effects produced on wood with hot irons.

Art is but the human effort to seize some of Nature's notable transitory features to perpetuate
them. The unusual scenes of grandeur and of beauty our divine mother reveals to us in some
of her moods, we adore, while they are inspirations to the poet and painter; and in this untiring
course of art, many geniuses have become apotheosized.

To take a lovely landscape at sunset: when from the side of some enchanting stream, you look
toward the mountains in the west, and see the crimson and light blue curtains of the evening
slowly shaken out; their fringes of burnished gold glowing with indescribable magnificence--who
can portray it and do it justice? This evening robing of those variegated crests! That mingling
of color, until it fades into deep violet dyes! They in their turn passing away to give place
to the jewels of the night, whose unchanging song of eternal praise goes on----

Before such scenes, a Corot, or an Aubert dips the pencil in the glowing sky, and transfers
its hues to the canvas; so that, in after time, our souls are gladdened by some retrospect,
which makes life dearer to us amidst its cares.

We must not consider art as the rival of nature, but her child that pays to her the most graceful
tribute of homage by making her impressions permanent.

Highly interesting exhibits were presented to view in the Anthropological Building, including
instructive ethnological and archaeological collections. In connection with the latter section
were the relics shown in the Convent de la Rabida--where Columbus, almost discouraged, found
a cordial reception and kind assistance from Father de la Marchena--; the Yucatan Ruins--an
illustration of ancient architecture and sculpture--; the homes of the Cliff Dwellers--vestiges
of probably the earliest civilization of the American continent--; the Spanish Caravels--built
in Spain for the Exposition--; the Viking Ship--reproduced from a Norwegian vessel a thousand
years old--; and the Esquimaux Village--exhibiting natives (their habitations, and sports),
reindeers, and Esquimaux dogs.

The handsome structures erected by the Foreign Nations as well as those built by the States
and Territories of the Union, were designed particularly for the entertainment of those visitors
who constituted their respective representatives. Nevertheless, many of them were beautifully
and expensively fitted up; inclosing magnificent native products. Their unique features were
so manifold that it would be an impossibility to describe them deservingly without dedicating
a volume to that purpose.

The nineteen foreign buildings, each of which illustrated some classic style of architecture--peculiar
to the nation represented--constituted an additional great feature of the Columbian Exposition.
They gave the visitor an adequate conception of the construction and luxurious equipment of
edifices abroad. In fact, on entering the buildings of Germany, France, Great Britain, Spain,
New South Wales, Ceylon, Canada, Sweden, Costa Rica, Hayti, Guatemala, Japan, etc., we fancied
ourselves to be suddenly conveyed to these foreign countries.

With a few exceptions, all the forty-four States and five Territories of the Union, had their
share in the beautiful effect produced by their structures, erected--at a considerable expense--of
such material as elucidated the prominent natural resources of the respective states. Many
of the edifices were modeled after buildings noted for some historical event. Thus, the New
York Building was a reproduction, slightly modified, of the old Van Rensselaer residence, whose
quaint architecture recalled a most interesting period in our national history, when the great
metropolis of to-day was but a small sea-port town.

This World's Fair, which has recently been brought to a close, evinced to the millions of visitors,
who were drawn by its multitudinous attractions to the White City from every section of this
country, and from almost every quarter of the globe that it eclipsed in grandeur and excellence
all of the previous universal expositions; for everything that good taste and modern genius
could suggest and accomplish, was brought into play.

The financial account given by the auditor of the Columbian Fair stands thus: The entire cost
of the Exposition to its close and the winding up of its affairs amounted to $26,288,685.67.
Its total receipts were $28,151,168.75; thus exceeding the expenditure by $1,862,483.08.

The wonderful and rapid development of the international expositions may be recognized by the
following statistics, compiled from the annals of their short history:

Ordinal  Year. Location.     Area   Duration Exhibitors  Visitors
 Number                    in Acres  in Days

   1     1851  London        20.06     144     17,000   6,039,000
   2     1855  Paris         24.71     200     21,779   5,162,000
   3     1862  London        22.24     171     28,653   6,211,000
   4     1867  Paris         29.44     217     50,236  10,200,000
   5     1873  Vienna        39.54     186     42,000   7,254,000
   6     1876  Philadelphia  59.31     184     60,000   9,900,000
   7     1878  Paris         59.31     194     32,000  13,000,000
   8     1889  Paris         74.14     183     60,000  32,000,000
   9     1893  Chicago..Exp 533.00     183     50,000  27,412,728
                      ...MP  80.00

Unable to obtain the exact figures denoting the number of exhibitors of the Columbian Exposition
from any authentical source of information, I introduced into the above table the number of
50,000, mentioned in a newspaper, and therefore not absolutely reliable.

 CONCLUSION.

The universal verdict is--that the World's Columbian Exposition at Chicago was a great success;
and although disappearing like a dream, it will be a lasting and useful one. The mention of
a few features, at once creditable to the age, and pointing hopefully to the future, may suffice
to prove this opinion: Notwithstanding the great rivalry between nations, there has not been
a particle of jealousy, or unkind criticism exhibited at these great congresses. Intelligent
and representative people have been brought together from all parts of the earth, who--on returning
to their homes--carried with them the germs of better feeling, which will have a tendency to
break up the barriers of bitter prejudices and bigotry hitherto existing. The less favored
and darker parts of our earth come more into the light. Our children have had lessons, which
no history or geography could convey; our women have taken a stand from which they never will
recede. In the presence of the wonders shown us, and all the grand efforts of human genius,
we become less selfish and more humane; a greater respect for each other is evoked. Yes, it
has been a good thing!

All honor to the nations of the earth, who so generously have come forward with their best
treasures, not sparing trouble or expense in this promoting, grand feature of human progress!
The millions spent here, have been well employed; and we can safely say that--but for the unfortunate
fact that during the time of the exposition, we were passing through a season of unusual financial
depression--the attendance at the World's Fair would have been much larger. Nevertheless, it
was a great success. All honor to the Hon. George R. Davis, the General Director! All honor
to his co-laborers! All honor to every one who did anything to push it along! For, it is gone--giving
the pulse of the world the holiest thrill it ever had since its creation.

FINIS.