The relative situation of the American colonies and the mother country, is matter of general
history, and too well known to require being repeated here. It is equally well known too, that
from the first establishment of a colony in Canada, the Canadians obtained an influence over
the Natives, greater than the Anglo-Americans were ever able to acquire; and that this influence
was frequently exercised by them, to the great annoyance, and manifest injury of the latter.
France and England have been long considered as natural enemies; and the inhabitants of their
respective plantations in America, entertained strong feelings of jealousy towards each other.
When by the treaty of Paris, the French possessions in North America (which had not been ceded
to Spain,) were transferred to Great Britain, those feelings were not subdued. The Canadians
still regarded themselves as a different people. Their national prejudices were too great to
be extinguished by an union under the same prince. Under the influence of these prejudices,
and the apprehension, that the lucrative commerce of the natives might, by the competition
of the English traders, be diverted from its accustomed channels, they may have exerted themselves
to excite the Indians to war; but that alone would hardly have produced this result. There
is in man an inherent partiality for self, which leads him to search for the causes of any
evil, elsewhere than in his own conduct; and under the operation of this propensity to assign
the burden of wrong to be borne by others, the Jesuits from Canada and Louisiana were censured
for the continuation of the war on the part of the Indians, after it had been terminated with
their allies by the treaty of 1763. Yet that event was, no doubt, justly attributable to the
erection of forts, and the location of land, in the district of country claimed by the natives,
in the province of Pennsylvania. And in like manner, the origin of the war of 1774 may fairly
be charged to the encroachments which were then being made on the Indian territory. To be convinced
of this, it is necessary to advert to the promptitude of resistance on the part of the Natives,
by which those encroachments were invariably met; and to recur to events happening in other
sections of the country.--Events, perhaps no otherwise connected with the history of North
Western Virginia, than as they are believed to have been the proximate causes of an hostility,
eventuating in the effusion of much of its blood; and pregnant with other circumstances, having
an important bearing on its prosperity and advancement.

In the whole history of America, from the time when it first [108] became apparent that the
occupancy of the country was the object of the whites, up to the present period, is there perhaps
to be found a solitary instance, in which an attempt, made by the English to effect a settlement
in a wilderness claimed by the Natives, was not succeeded by immediate acts of hostility on
the part of the latter. Every advance of the kind was regarded by them, as tending to effect
their expulsion from a country, which they had long considered as their own, and as leading,
most probably, to their entire extinction as a people. This excited in them feelings of the
most dire resentment; stimulating to deeds of cruelty and murder, at once to repel the encroachment
and to punish its authors. Experience of the utter futility of those means to accomplish these
purposes, has never availed to repress their use, or to produce an acquiesence in the wrong.
Even attempts to extend jurisdiction over a country, the right of soil in which was never denied
them, have ever given rise to the most lively apprehensions of their fatal consequences, and
prompted to the employment of means to thwart that aim. An Indian sees no difference between
the right of empire and the right of domain; and just as little can he discriminate between
the right of property, acquired by the actual cultivation of the earth, and that which arises
from its appropriation to other uses.

Among themselves they have lines of demarkation, which distinguish the territory of one nation
from that of another; and these are of such binding authority, that a transgression of them
by neighboring Indians, leads invariably to war. In treaties of purchase, and other conventional
arrangements, made with them by the whites, the validity of their rights to land, have been
repeatedly recognized; and an infraction of those rights by the Anglo-Americans, encounters
opposition at its threshold. The history of every attempt to settle a wilderness, to which
the Indian title was not previously extinguished, has consequently been a history of plunder,
conflagration and massacre.

That the extension of white settlements into the Indian country, was the cause of the war of
1774, will be abundantly manifested by a recurrence to the early history of Kentucky; and a
brief review of the circumstances connected with the first attempts to explore and make establishments
in it. For several reasons, these circumstances merit a passing notice in this place. Redstone
and Fort Pitt (now Brownsville and Pittsburgh) were for some time, the principal points of
embarkation for emigrants to that country; many of whom were from the establishments which
had been then not long made, on the Monongahela. The Indians, regarding the settlements in
North Western Virginia as the line from which swarmed the adventurers to Kentucky, directed
their operations to prevent the success of these adventurers, as well against the inhabitants
of the upper country, as against them. While at the same time, in the efforts which were made
to compel the Indians to desist from farther opposition, the North Western Virginians frequently
combined [109] their forces, and acted in conjunction, the more certainly to accomplish that
object. In truth the war, which was then commenced, and carried on with but little intermission
up to the treaty of Fort Greenville in 1795 was a war in which they were equally interested,
having for its aim the indiscriminate destruction of the inhabitants of both those sections
of country, as the means of preventing the farther extension of settlements by the whites.[5]

When Kentucky was first begun to be explored, it is said not to have been claimed in individual
property by any nation of Indians. Its extensive forests, grassy plains and thick cane brakes,
abounding with every variety of game common to such latitudes, were used as common hunting
grounds, and considered by them, as open for all who chose to resort to them. The Cherokees,
the Chickasaws, the Cataubas, and the Chicamaugas, from the south east; and the Illinois, the
Peorias, the Delawares, the Mingoes and Shawanees from the west, claimed and exercised equal
rights and privileges within its limits. When the tribes of those different nations would however
meet there, frequent collisions would arise between them; and so deadly were the conflicts
ensuing upon these, that, in conjunction with the gloom of its dense forests, they acquired
for it the impressive appellation of "the dark and bloody ground." But frequent and deadly
as may have been those conflicts, they sprang from some other cause, than a claim to exclusive
property in it.

In the summer of 1769, Daniel Boone, in company with John Finley (who had previously hunted
through the country) and a few other men, entered Kentucky, and travelled over much of its
surface, without meeting with an Indian, until the December following.[6] At this time Boone
and John Steward (one of his companions,) while on a hunting excursion, were discovered by
a party of Indians, who succeeded in making them prisoners. After a detention of but few days,
these men effected their escape; & returning to their old camp, found that it had been plundered,
and their associates, either killed or taken into captivity. They were shortly after joined
by a brother of Daniel Boone and another man, from North Carolina, who were so fortunate in
wandering through the wilderness, as to discover the only, though temporary residence of civilized
man within several hundred miles. But the Indians had become alarmed for the possession of
that country; and fearing that if Boone and Steward should be suffered to escape to the settlements,
they might induce others to attempt its permanent occupancy, they sought with vigilance to
discover and murder them. They succeeded in killing Steward; but Daniel Boone and his brother,
then the only persons left (the man who came out with the younger Boone having been killed
by a wolf,) escaped from them, and soon after returned to North Carolina.

The Indians were not disappointed in their expectations. The description given of the country
by the Boones, soon led others to attempt its settlement; and in 1773, six families and about
forty men, all under the guidance of Daniel Boone, commenced their journey [110] to Kentucky
with a view of remaining there. Before they proceeded far, they were attacked in the rear by
a party of Indians, who had been observing their movements; and who in the first fire killed
six of the emigrants and dispersed their cattle. Nothwithstanding that, in the engagement which
ensued upon this attack, the assailants were repulsed, yet the adventurers were so afflicted
at the loss of their friends, and dispirited by such serious and early opposition, that they
abandoned their purpose for a time, and returned to the inhabited parts of Tennessee.[7]

The Indians elated with their success in defeating this first attempt at the settlement of
Kentucky, and supposing that the route pursued by the party which they had driven back, would
be the pass for future adventurers, determined on guarding it closely, and checking, if possible,
every similar enterprise. But while their attention was directed to this point, others found
their way into the country by a different route and from a different direction.

The Virginia troops, who had served in the Canadian war, had been promised a bounty in Western
lands. Many of them being anxious to ascertain their value, and deeming this a favorable period
for the making of surveys, collected at Fort Pitt in the fall of 1773; and descending the Ohio
river to its falls, at Louisville, proceeded from thence to explore the country preparatory
to a perfection of their grants.[8]

About the same time too, General Thompson of Pennsylvania, commenced an extensive course of
surveys, of the rich land on the North Fork of Licking; and other individuals following his
example, in the ensuing winter the country swarmed with land adventurers and surveyors. So
sensible were they all, that these attempts to appropriate those lands to their own use, would
produce acts of hostility, that they went prepared to resist those acts; and the first party
who took up their abode in Kentucky, no sooner selected a situation for their residence, than
they proceeded to erect a fort for their security.[9] The conduct of the Indians soon convinced
them that their apprehensions were not ill founded; and many of them, in consequence of the
hostile movements which were being made, and the robberies which were committed, ascended the
Ohio river to Wheeling.

It is not known that any murders were done previously to this, and subsequently to the attack
and repulse of the emigrants who were led on by Boone in 1773. This event happened on the tenth
day of October; and it was in April the ensuing year, that the land adventurers retired to
Wheeling. In this interval of time, nothing could, perhaps, be done by the Indians, but make
preparation [111] for hostilities in the spring. Indeed it very rarely happens, that the Indians
engage in active war during the winter; and there is, moreover, a strong presumption, that
they were for some time ignorant of the fact that there were adventurers in the country; and
consequently, they knew of no object there, on which their hostile intentions could operate.--Be
this as it may, it is certain that, from the movements of the Indians at the close of the winter,
the belief was general, that they were assuming a warlike attitude, and meditating a continuance
of hostilities. War was certainly begun on their part, when Boone and his associates, were
attacked and driven back to the settlement; and if it abated for a season, that abatement was
attributable to other causes, than a disposition to remain quiet and peaceable, while the country
was being occupied by the whites.

If other evidence were wanting, to prove the fact that the war of 1774 had its origin in a
determination of the Indians to repress the extension of white settlements, it could be found
in the circumstance, that although it was terminated by the treaty with Lord Dunmore, yet it
revived as soon as attempts were again made to occupy Kentucky, and was continued with increased
ardour, 'till the victory obtained over them by General Wayne. For, notwithstanding that in
the struggle for American liberty, those Indians became the allies of Great Britain, yet when
independence was acknowledged, and the English forces withdrawn from the colonies, hostilities
were still carried on by them; and, as was then well understood, because of the continued operation
of those causes, which produced the war of 1774. That the Canadian traders and British emissaries,
prompted the Indians to aggression, and extended to them every aid which they could, to render
that aggression more effectually oppressive and overwhelming, is readily admitted. Yet this
would not have led to a war, but for the encroachments which have been mentioned. French influence,
united to the known jealousy of the Natives, would have been unavailingly exerted to array
the Indians against Virginia, at the commencement of Braddock's war, but for the proceedings
of the Ohio company, and the fact that the Pennsylvania traders represented the object of that
association to be purely territorial. And equally fruitless would have been their endeavor
to involve them in a contest [112] with Virginians at a later period, but for a like manifestation
of an intention to encroach on their domain.

In the latter end of April 1774, a party of land adventurers, who had fled from the dangers
which threatened them below, came in collision with some Indians, near the mouth of Captina,
sixteen miles below Wheeling. A slight skirmish ensued, which terminated in the discomfiture
of the whites, notwithstanding they had only one man wounded, and one or two of the enemy were
killed. About the same time, happened the affair opposite the mouth of Yellow creek; a stream
emptying into the Ohio river from the northwest, nearly midway between Pittsburg and Wheeling.[10]

In consequence of advices received of the menacing conduct of the Indians, Joshua Baker (who
lived at this place) was preparing, together with his neighbors, to retire for safety, into
some of the nearer forts, or to go to the older and more populous settlements, remote from
danger. There was at that time a large party of Indians, encamped on both sides of Yellow creek,
at its entrance into the river; and although in their intercourse at Baker's, they had not
manifested an intention of speedily commencing depredations, yet he deemed his situation in
the immediate contiguity of them, as being far from secure, and was on the eve of abandoning
it, when a party of whites, who had just collected at his house, fired upon and killed some
Indians, who were likewise there.--Among them were the brother and daughter of the celebrated
chief, Logan.[11]

In justification of this conduct it has been said, that on the preceding evening a squaw came
over from the encampment and informed Mrs. Baker that the Indians meditated the murder of her
family on the next day; and that before the firing [113] at Baker's, two canoes, containing
Indians painted and armed for war, were seen to leave the opposite shore. Under these circumstances,
an apparently slight provocation, and one, which would not perhaps have been, otherwise heeded,
produced the fatal result. As the canoes approached the shore, the party from Baker's commenced
firing on them, and notwithstanding the opposition made by the Indians, forced them to retire.

An interval of quiet succeeded the happening of these events; but it was as the solemn stillness
which precedes the eruption of an earthquake, when a volcanic explosion has given notice of
its approach;--rendered more awful by the uncertainty where its desolating influence would
be felt. It was however, a stillness of but short duration. The gathering storm soon burst
over the devoted heads of those, who had neglected to seek a shelter from its wrath. The traders
in the Indian country were the first victims sacrificed on the altar of savage ferocity; and
a general massacre of all the whites found among them, quickly followed. A young man, discovered
near the falls of Muskingum and within sight of White Eyes town, was murdered, scalped; literally
cut to pieces, and the mangled members of his body, hung up on trees. White Eyes, a chief of
the friendly Delawares, hearing the scalp halloo, went out with a party of his men; and seeing
what had been done, collected the scattered limbs of the young man, and buried them. On the
next day, they were torn from the ground, severed into smaller pieces, and thrown dispersedly
at greater distances from each other.

[114] Apprized of impending danger, many of the inhabitants on the frontiers of North Western
Virginia, retired into the interior, before any depredations were committed, in the upper country;
some took refuge in forts which had been previously built; while others, collecting together
at particular houses, converted them into temporary fortresses, answering well the purposes
of protection, to those who sought shelter in them. Fort Redstone, which had been erected after
the successful expedition of General Forbes; and Fort Pitt, at the confluence of the Alleghany
and Monongahela rivers, afforded an asylum to many. Several private forts were likewise established
in various parts of the country;[12] and every thing which individual exertion could effect,
to ensure protection to the border inhabitants, was done.

Nor did the colonial government of Virginia neglect the security of her frontier citizens.
When intelligence of the hostile disposition of the Natives, reached Williamsburg, the house
of Burgesses was in session; and measures were immediately adopted, to prevent massacres, and
to restore tranquillity. That these objects might be the more certainly accomplished, it was
proposed by General Andrew Lewis (then a delegate from Bottetourt,) to organize a force, sufficient
to overcome all intermediate opposition, and to carry the war into the enemy's country. In
accordance to this proposition, orders were issued by Governor Dunmore for raising the requisite
number of troops, and for making other necessary preparations for the contemplated campaign;
the plan of which was concerted by the Governor, Gen. Lewis and Colonel Charles Lewis (then
a delegate from Augusta.) But as some time must necessarily have elapsed before the consummation
of the preparations which were being made; and as much individual suffering might result from
the delays unavoidably incident to the raising, equipping and [115] organizing a large body
of troops, it was deemed advisable to take some previous and immediate step to prevent the
invasion of exposed and defenceless portions of the country.--The best plan for the accomplishment
of this object was believed to be, the sending of an advance army into the Indian country,
of sufficient strength to act offensively, before a confederacy could be formed of the different
tribes, and their combined forces be brought into the field. A sense of the exposed situation
of their towns in the presence of an hostile army, requiring the entire strength of every village
for its defence, would, it was supposed, call home those straggling parties of warriors, by
which destruction is so certainly dealt to the helpless and unprotected. In conformity with
this part of the plan of operations, four hundred men, to be detailed from the militia west
of the mountains, were ordered to assemble at Wheeling as soon as practicable. And in the mean
time, lest the surveyors and land adventurers, who were then in Kentucky, might be discovered
and fall a prey to the savages, Daniel Boone was sent by the Governor to the falls of Ohio,
to conduct them home from thence, through the wilderness; the only practicable road to safety,
the Ohio river being so effectually guarded as to preclude the hope of escaping up it.[13]

Early in June, the troops destined to make an incursion into the Indian country, assembled
at Wheeling, and being placed under the command of Colonel Angus McDonald, descended the Ohio
to the mouth of Captina. Debarking, at this place, from their boats and canoes, they took up
their march to Wappatomica, an Indian town on the Muskingum. The country through which the
army had to pass, was one unbroken forest, presenting many obstacles to its speedy advance,
not the least of which was the difficulty of proceeding directly to the point proposed.[14]
To obviate this, however, they were accompanied by three persons in the capacity of guides;[15]
whose knowledge of the woods, and familiarity with those natural indices, which so unerringly
mark the direction of the principal points, enabled them to pursue the direct course.--When
they had approached within six miles of the town, the [116] army encountered an opposition
from a party of fifty or sixty Indians lying in ambush; and before these could be dislodged,
two whites were killed, and eight or ten wounded;--one Indian was killed, and several wounded.
They then proceeded to Wappatomica without further molestation.[16]

When the army arrived at the town, it was found to be entirely deserted. Supposing that it
would cross the river, the Indians had retreated to the opposite bank, and concealing themselves
behind trees and fallen timber, were awaiting that movement in joyful anticipation of a successful
surprise.--Their own anxiety and the prudence of the commanding officer, however, frustrated
that expectation. Several were discovered peeping from their covert, watching the motion of
the army; and Colonel McDonald, suspecting their object, and apprehensive that they would recross
the river and attack him in the rear, stationed videttes above and below, to detect any such
purpose, and to apprise him of the first movement towards effecting it. Foiled by these prudent
and precautionary measures and seeing their town in possession of the enemy, with no prospect
of wresting it from them, 'till destruction would have done its work, the Indians sued for
peace; and the commander of the expedition consenting to negotiate with them, if he could be
assured of their sincerity, five chiefs were sent over as hostages, and the army then crossed
the river, with these in front.

When a negotiation was begun, the Indians asked, that one of the hostages might be permitted
to go and convoke the other chiefs, whose presence, it was alleged, would be necessary to the
ratification of a peace. One was accordingly released; and not returning at the time specified,
another was then sent, who in like manner failed to return. Colonel McDonald, suspecting some
treachery, marched forward to the next town, above Wappatomica, where another slight engagement
took place, in which one Indian was killed and one white man wounded. It was then ascertained,
that the time which should have been spent in collecting the other chiefs, preparatory to negotiation,
had been employed in removing their old men, their women and children, together with what property
could be readily taken off, and for making preparations for a combined attack on the Virginia
troops. To punish this duplicity and to render peace really desirable, Col. McDonald burned
their towns and destroyed their crops; [117] and being then in want of provisions, retraced
his steps to Wheeling, taking with him the three remaining hostages, who were then sent on
to Williamsburg.[17]

The inconvenience of supplying provisions to an army in the wilderness, was a serious obstacle
to the success of expeditions undertaken against the Indians. The want of roads, at that early
period, which would admit of transportation in wagons, rendered it necessary to resort to pack
horses; and such was at times the difficulty of procuring these, that, not unfrequently, each
soldier had to be the bearer of his entire stock of subsistence for the whole campaign. When
this was exhausted, a degree of suffering ensued, often attended with consequences fatal to
individuals, and destructive to the objects of the expedition. In the present case, the army
being without provisions before they left the Indian towns, their only sustenance consisted
of weeds, an ear of corn each day, and occasionally, a small quantity of venison: it being
impracticable to hunt game in small parties, because of the vigilance and success of the Indians,
in watching and cutting off detachments of this kind, before they could accomplish their purpose
and regain the main army.

No sooner had the troops retired from the Indian country, than the savages, in small parties,
invaded the settlements in different directions, seeking opportunities of gratifying their
insatiable thirst for blood. And although the precautions which had been taken, lessened the
frequency of their success, yet they did not always prevent it. Persons leaving the forts on
any occasion, were almost always either murdered or carried into captivity,--a lot sometimes
worse than death itself.

Perhaps the first of these incursions into North Western Virginia, after the destruction of
the towns on the Muskingum, was that made by a party of eight Indians, at the head of which
was the Cayuga chief Logan.[18] This very celebrated [118] Indian is represented as having
hitherto, observed towards the whites, a course of conduct by no means in accordance with the
malignity and steadfast implacability which influenced his red brethren generally; but was,
on the contrary, distinguished by a sense of humanity, and a just abhorrence of those cruelties
so frequently inflicted on the innocent and unoffending, as well as upon those who were really
obnoxious to savage enmity. Such indeed were the acts of beneficence which characterized him,
and so great his partiality for the English, that the finger of his brethren would point to
his cabin as the residence of Logan, "the friend of white men." "In the course of the French
war, he remained at home, idle and inactive;" opposed to the interference of his nation, "an
advocate for peace." When his family fell before the fury of exasperated men, he felt himself
impelled to avenge their deaths; and exchanging the pipe of peace, for the tomahawk of war,
became active in seeking opportunities to glut his vengeance.[19] With this object in view,
at the head of the party which has been mentioned, he traversed the county from the Ohio to
the West Fork, before an opportunity was presented him of achieving any mischief. Their distance
from what was supposed would be the theatre of war, had rendered the inhabitants of that section
of country, comparatively inattentive to their safety. Relying on the expectation that the
first blow would be struck on the Ohio, and that they would have sufficient notice of this
to prepare for their own security, before danger could reach them, many had continued to perform
the ordinary business of their farms.

On the 12th day of July, as William Robinson, Thomas Hellen and Coleman Brown were pulling
flax in a field opposite the mouth of Simpson's creek, Logan and his party approached unperceived
and fired at them. Brown fell instantly; his body perforated by several balls; and Hellen and
Robinson [119] unscathed, sought safety in flight. Hellen being then an old man, was soon overtaken
and made captive; but Robinson, with the elasticity of youth, ran a considerable distance before
he was taken; and but for an untoward accident might have effected an escape. Believing that
he was outstripping his pursuers, and anxious to ascertain the fact, he looked over his shoulder,
but before he discovered the Indian giving chase, he ran with such violence against a tree,
that he fell, stunned by the shock and lay powerless and insensible. In this situation he was
secured with a cord; and when he revived, was taken back to the place where the Indians had
Hellen in confinement, and where lay the lifeless body of Brown. They then set off to their
towns, taking with them a horse which belonged to Hellen.

When they had approached near enough to be distinctly heard, Logan (as is usual with them after
a successful scout,) gave the scalp halloo, and several warriors came out to meet them, and
conducted the prisoners into the village. Here they passed through the accustomed ceremony
of running the gauntlet; but with far different fortunes. Robinson, having been previously
instructed by Logan (who from the time he made him his prisoner, manifested a kindly feeling
towards him,) made his way, with but little interruption, to the council house; but poor Hellen,
from the decrepitude of age, and his ignorance of the fact that it was a place of refuge, was
sadly beaten before he arrived at it; and when he at length came near enough, he was knocked
down with a war club, before he could enter. After he had fallen, they continued to beat and
strike him with such unmerciful severity, that he would assuredly have fallen a victim to their
barbarous usage, but that Robinson (at some peril for the interference) reached forth his hand
and drew him within the sanctuary. When he had however, recovered from the effects of the violent
beating which he had received, he was relieved from the apprehension of farther suffering,
by being adopted into an Indian family.

A council was next convoked to resolve on the fate of Robinson; and then arose in his breast,
feelings of the most anxious inquietude. Logan assured him, that he should not be killed; but
the council appeared determined that he should die, and he was tied to the stake. Logan then
addressed them, and with much vehemence, insisted that Robinson too should be spared; and had
the eloquence displayed on that occasion been less than Logan is believed to have possessed,
[120] it is by no means wonderful that he appeared to Robinson (as he afterwards said) the
most powerful orator he ever heard. But commanding as his eloquence might have been, it seems
not to have prevailed with the council; for Logan had to interpose otherwise than by argument
or entreaty, to succeed in the attainment of his object. Enraged at the pertinacity with which
the life of Robinson was sought to be taken, and reckless of the consequences, he drew the
tomahawk from his belt, and severing the cords which bound the devoted victim to the stake,
led him in triumph, to the cabin of an old squaw, by whom he was immediately adopted.

After this, so long as Logan remained in the town where Robinson was, he was kind and attentive
to him; and when preparing to go again to war, got him to write the letter which was afterwards
found on Holstein at the house of a Mr. Robertson, whose family were all murdered by the Indians.
Robinson remained with his adopted mother, until he was redeemed under the treaty concluded
at the close of the Dunmore campaign.

-----
   [1] Mr. Jefferson, in his Notes on Virginia, represents this
       as happening at Grave creek, which empties into the Ohio from
       the south eastern, or Virginia side of this river, twelve miles
       below Wheeling. Those who lived near at the time and are
       supposed to have had the best opportunity of ascertaining the
       fact, say that it happened near the mouth of Captina, a creek
       sixteen miles below Wheeling, and on the Ohio side.

       ------

       Comment by R. G. T.--What is called the "Captina affair"
       happened April 27th, at Pipe Creek, emptying into the Ohio from
       the west, fourteen miles below Wheeling, and six above Captina
       Creek. Two friendly Shawnees were killed here by a party
       commanded by Michael Cresap, of Redstone, who at the time was
       in the neighborhood of Wheeling, surveying and clearing farms
       for new settlers. Cresap and his men, among whom was George
       Rogers Clark, then a young surveyor who had a claim at the
       mouth of Fish Creek, thereupon started out to destroy Chief
       Logan's camp, at Baker's Bottom, opposite the mouth of Yellow
       Creek, fifty-three miles up the Ohio, and forty miles west of
       Pittsburg by land; but as Logan was a well-known friend of the
       whites, they became ashamed of their project, and marched on
       across country to Fort Redstone. Meanwhile, as will be seen in
       due course, others were preparing to destroy Logan's band, and
       on April 30th occurred that infamous massacre which Logan
       wrongly believed to be Cresap's work.

   [2] Capt. Bull was a Delaware chief whose original village
       of Oghkwaga was on Unadilla Kiver, an eastern branch of the
       Susquehanna, in what is now Boone county, N. Y. He had been the
       prime mover in an attempt to interest the Delawares in
       Pontiac's conspiracy (1763). In March, 1764, a strong party of
       whites and friendly Indians were sent out to capture him, by
       Sir William Johnson, English Indian superintendent in New York.
       After a sharp struggle, Bull and a number of his adherents were
       captured and conveyed in irons to New York City, where they
       were imprisoned for a time, but finally discharged. The
       Delaware towns on the Unadilla having been burned, Bull and
       five families of his relatives settled what the whites called
       Bulltown, on the Little Kanawha. This was at a salt spring
       about a mile and a quarter below the present Bulltown P. O.,
       Braxton county, Va. Capt. Bull and his people were inoffensive,
       and very friendly to their white neighbors, as our author
       says.--R. G. T.

   [3] Adam Stroud lived on Elk River, a few miles south of
       Indian Bulltown. The massacre of his family--his wife and seven
       children--occurred in June, 1772. Shawnees were the murderers,
       and not Bull's people.--R. G. T.

   [4] Mr. McWhorter writes me that two others were Jesse
       Hughes and John Cutright (corruption of Cartwright?), both of
       them settlers on Hacker's Creek. Hughes was a noted border
       scout, but a man of fierce, unbridled passions, and so
       confirmed an Indian hater that no tribesman, however peaceful
       his record, was safe in his presence. Some of the most cruel
       acts on the frontier are by tradition attributed to this man.
       The massacre of the Bulltown Indians was accompanied by
       atrocities as repulsive as any reported by captives in Indian
       camps; of these there had long been traditions, but details
       were not fully known until revealed by Cutright upon his
       death-bed in 1852, when he had reached the age of 105 years.
       Want of space alone prevents me from giving Mr. McWhorter's
       narrative of Hughes's long and bloody career. "Hughes died," he
       says, "in Jackson county, W. Va., at a date unknown to me, but
       in very old age. While he was a great scout and Indian trader,
       he never headed an expedition of note. This no doubt was
       because of his fierce temperament, and bad reputation among his
       own countrymen." In studying the annals of the border, we must
       not fail to note that here and there were many savage-hearted
       men among the white settlers, whose deeds were quite as
       atrocious as any attributed to the red-skins. Current histories
       of Indian warfare seldom recognize this fact.--R. G. T.

   [5] Lord Dunmore's War (1774) was a natural outgrowth of the
       strained relations which had long existed between the savages
       and the white colonists in their midst. As our author has made
       clear, minor hostilities had broken out here and there ever
       since the Pontiac uprising, but there had been no general
       campaign since Bouquet's treaty in 1764. Affairs had come to
       that pass by the early spring of 1774, that diplomacy was no
       longer possible, and an Indian war was inevitable. It was
       merely a question of detail, as to how and when. The immediate
       cause of precipitation--not the cause of the war, for that lay
       deeper--was the territorial dispute over the Ft. Pitt region,
       between Virginia and Pennsylvania. Dunmore, as royal governor
       of Virginia, had several reasons for bringing matters to a
       head--he was largely interested in land speculations under
       Virginia patents that would be vitiated if Pennsylvania, now
       becoming aggressive, should succeed in planting her official
       machinery at Ft. Pitt, which was garrisoned by Virginia; again,
       his colonists were in a revolutionary frame of mind, and he
       favored a distraction in the shape of a popular Indian war;
       finally, it seemed as though a successful raid by Virginia
       militia would clinch Virginia's hold on the country and the
       treaty of peace that must follow would widen the area of
       provincial lands and encourage Western settlements. April 25,
       1774, he issued a proclamation in which, after reference to
       Pennsylvania's claims, it was asserted that Ft. Pitt was "in
       danger of some annoyance from the Indians," and he called on
       his local military commandant, the fire-eating Dr. John
       Connolly, "to embody a sufficient number of men to repel any
       insult." Connolly, evidently as part of a preconcerted plan, at
       once (April 26) issued a circular letter to the excited
       borderers, which was well calculated to arouse them, being in
       effect a declaration of war against the Indians. The very next
       day occurred the Pipe Creek affair, then came the Logan tragedy
       at Baker's Bottom, three days later, and at once the war was on
       at full-head.--R. G. T.

