'We fand her in Sandag Bay, Rorie an' me, and a' thae braws in the inside of her.  There's
a kittle bit, ye see, about Sandag; whiles the sook rins strong for the Merry Men; an' whiles
again, when the tide's makin' hard an' ye can hear the Roost blawin' at the far-end of Aros,
there comes a back-spang of current straucht into Sandag Bay.  Weel, there's the thing that
got the grip on the Christ-Anna.  She but to have come in ram-stam an' stern forrit; for the
bows of her are aften under, and the back-side of her is clear at hie-water o' neaps.  But,
man! the dunt that she cam doon wi' when she struck!  Lord save us a'! but it's an unco life
to be a sailor--a cauld, wanchancy life.  Mony's the gliff I got mysel' in the great deep;
and why the Lord should hae made yon unco water is mair than ever I could win to understand.
He made the vales and the pastures, the bonny green yaird, the halesome, canty land--

   And now they shout and sing to Thee,
   For Thou hast made them glad,

as the Psalms say in the metrical version.  No that I would preen my faith to that clink neither;
but it's bonny, and easier to mind.  "Who go to sea in ships," they hae't again--

            And in
      Great waters trading be,
   Within the deep these men God's works
      And His great wonders see.

Weel, it's easy sayin' sae.  Maybe Dauvit wasnae very weel acquant wi' the sea.  But, troth,
if it wasnae prentit in the Bible, I wad whiles be temp'it to think it wasnae the Lord, but
the muckle, black deil that made the sea.  There's naething good comes oot o't but the fish;
an' the spentacle o' God riding on the tempest, to be shure, whilk would be what Dauvit was
likely ettling at.  But, man, they were sair wonders that God showed to the Christ-Anna--wonders,
do I ca' them?  Judgments, rather: judgments in the mirk nicht among the draygons o' the deep.
And their souls--to think o' that--their souls, man, maybe no prepared!  The sea--a muckle
yett to hell!'

I observed, as my uncle spoke, that his voice was unnaturally moved and his manner unwontedly
demonstrative.  He leaned forward at these last words, for example, and touched me on the knee
with his spread fingers, looking up into my face with a certain pallor, and I could see that
his eyes shone with a deep-seated fire, and that the lines about his mouth were drawn and tremulous.

Even the entrance of Rorie, and the beginning of our meal, did not detach him from his train
of thought beyond a moment.  He condescended, indeed, to ask me some questions as to my success
at college, but I thought it was with half his mind; and even in his extempore grace, which
was, as usual, long and wandering, I could find the trace of his preoccupation, praying, as
he did, that God would 'remember in mercy fower puir, feckless, fiddling, sinful creatures
here by their lee-lane beside the great and dowie waters.'

Soon there came an interchange of speeches between him and Rorie.

'Was it there?' asked my uncle.

'Ou, ay!' said Rorie.

I observed that they both spoke in a manner of aside, and with some show of embarrassment,
and that Mary herself appeared to colour, and looked down on her plate.  Partly to show my
knowledge, and so relieve the party from an awkward strain, partly because I was curious, I
pursued the subject.

'You mean the fish?' I asked.

'Whatten fish?' cried my uncle.  'Fish, quo' he!  Fish!  Your een are fu' o' fatness, man;
your heid dozened wi' carnal leir.  Fish! it's a bogle!'

He spoke with great vehemence, as though angry; and perhaps I was not very willing to be put
down so shortly, for young men are disputatious. At least I remember I retorted hotly, crying
out upon childish superstitions.

