    WHEREAS in the Time of Divine Service Yesterday, the House
    of the Subscriber was broke open, and the following Things
    stolen from thence, viz. a Chocolate-colour Coat and Jacket
    trim'd with Brass Buttons, a cloth-colour'd cut-velvet
    Jacket with white Buttons, a pair Wash-Leather Breeches with
    white Buttons, five Silver Tea-Spoons, and one large ditto,
    mark'd G.P. Whoever shall apprehend the Thief or Thieves,
    so that he or they may be convicted, shall have FOUR DOLLARS
    Reward, paid by

                                                  JOHN PRESCOTT.

    Concord, September 14, 1767.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lectures were not common in the last century. It was not until within fifty or sixty years
ago, when Lyceums began to be established, that the lecture system became developed.

We find that in 1769 a Mr. Douglass lectured in Boston, according to an advertisement in the
"Chronicle," August 17th.

The well-known Colonel David Mason of the Revolution, who was a prominent figure among the
patriots at Leslie's Retreat at the North Bridge in Salem in February, 1775, was one of the
earliest, if not the very first, to lecture in Salem upon a scientific subject. In the "Essex
Gazette," Jan. 15, 1771, we find his advertisement:--

            No longer than next Week, will
        Continue to be exhibited, every Evening
    in which the Air is dry, (Saturday and Sunday
    excepted)

    A Course of Experiments in that instructive
    and entertaining Branch of Natural PHILOSOPHY, called

    =Electricity=,

    To be accompanied with Methodical Lectures
    on the Nature and Properties of that WONDERFUL ELEMENT,

                     By David Mason,

          At his Dwelling-House near the North Bridge.
           The Course to consist of two Lectures,
               At a Pistareen each Lecture.

    As the Knowledge of Nature tends to enlarge the human Mind,
    and give us more noble, more grand and exalted Ideas of the
    AUTHOR of Nature, and if well pursued, seldom fails
    producing something useful to Man, 'tis hoped these
    Lectures may be thought worthy of Regard and Encouragement.

            Tickets to be had at the above Place.

       *       *       *       *       *

             Positively the LAST NIGHT.
              =To-Morrow, being Friday,=
                  August 17, 1769.
                   =Mr. Douglass,=
                 Will deliver the
                      LECTURE
                         ON
                      =HEADS,=
          Coats of Arms, Wigs, Ladies-head
             Dresses, &c, &c, &c, &c.
           After which, will be pronounced
                  SOME SELECT PIECES
                        From
                 THE MOST CELEBRATED
                    ENGLISH POETS.
    *** Tickets for Admission, to be had of Green and
  Russell, and at the Bunch of Grapes in King-Street.
              At HALF-a-DOLLAR each.
            To begin exactly at 8 o'clock.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus we see that Salem was early in the field of literature and science. Its citizens must
take pride in remembering such great names as Nathaniel Bowditch, William H. Prescott, Joseph
Story, Timothy Pickering, John Pickering, Benjamin Peirce, William W. Story, Nathaniel Hawthorne,
and many others.

       *       *       *       *       *

When we see the great waste of paper in these days,--handbills, circulars, and newspapers,
which are blowing about the streets at times,--we sometimes wonder how it was in 1767, on October
19, when the following notice appeared in the "Boston Gazette."

    --> THIS is to give Notice, That on TUESDAY the 27th
    Instant, the Bell-Cart will go thro' Boston, to collect
    Linnen Rags for Milton Paper-Mill; as the highest Price
    will be given, all House-keepers and others are desired to
    have them in Readiness.--And, as it appears that all Sorts
    of Paper now to be imported, will come at a much higher
    Price than usual--if People will but save their Rags, it
    will not only be greatly interesting to the Public that the
    aforesaid Mill should have a full Supply, but will also
    encourage the manufacturing of all such different Sorts of
    Paper as are generally used among us, and a little to spare
    the neighbouring Governments.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here are two notices,--the first, nearly eight years before the battle of Lexington, sounds
warlike; the second is a call to promote greater economy on the part of the inhabitants.

      Messieurs EDES & GILL,

    Please to insert the following in your next.

    IT is rumoured, and some say with great Probability, that a
    Body of Troops are ordered to be in Readiness at Halifax, to
    embark to any Part on the Continent of America, upon the
    first Notice of Uneasiness at the Novelties we daily
    expect.--It is as certain that America is also in Readiness
    to defend their Liberties at the Risque of every Thing
    else--there can be no Hesitation whenever the Alternative
    shall be Slavery or Death--If therefore they wait to know
    whether we will tamely submit to Slavery, the sooner the
    Matter is bro't to a Crisis the better.----But while we have
    any Opinion of the Integrity and good Sense of the
    Parliament of G.B. such Reports will not easily gain Credit.
    DETERMINATUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

    The Freeholders and other Inhabitants of this Town, are to
    meet at Faneuil-Hall, on Wednesday next, to consider and
    agree upon some effectual Measures to promote Industry,
    Oeconomy, and Manufactures, thereby to prevent the
    unnecessary Importation of European Commodities, which
    threaten the Country with Poverty and Ruin, &c.----

       *       *       *       *       *

Timothy Pickering, the father of the distinguished Revolutionary officer and statesman of the
same name, addressed an open letter to King George III., which is printed in the "Salem Gazette,"
Oct. 31, 1769. It is a very quaint production, but it shows the writer's love of simplicity
and downright honesty. He was a sturdy Puritan.

                                              "Oct. 31, 1769.

    "TO THE KING OF GREAT BRITAIN.

