OLD MACKINAW;

OR,

THE FORTRESS OF THE LAKES

AND

ITS SURROUNDINGS.

BY

W. P. STRICKLAND.

Philadelphia: James Challen & Son,

New York: CARLTON & PORTER.--Cincinnati: POE & HITCHCOCK. Chicago: W. H. DOUGHTY.--Detroit:
PUTNAM, SMITH & CO. Nashville: J. B. McFERRIN.

1860.

PREFACE.

In the preparation of this volume a large number of works have been consulted, among which
the author desires to acknowledge his indebtedness to the following: "The Travels of Baron
La Hontan," published in English and French, 1705; "Relations des Jesuits," in three vols.,
octavo; "Marquette's Journal;" Schoolcraft's works, in three volumes; "Shea's Catholic Missions
and Discovery of the Mississippi" "American Annals;" "Lanman's History of Michigan;" "Parkman's
Siege of Pontiac;" "Annals of the West;" "Foster and Whitney's Geological Report;" "Ferris'
Great West;" "Disturnell's Trip to the Lakes;" "Lanman's Summer in the Wilderness;" "Pietzell's
Lights and Shades of Missionary Life;" "Life of Rev. John Clark;" "Lectures before the Historical
Society of Michigan;" "Mansfield's Mackinaw City;" "Andrews' Report of Lake Trade;" "Heriot's
Canada;" "Presbyterian Missions," &c., &c. He desires particularly to mention the works of
Schoolcraft, which have thrown more light on Indian history than the productions of any other
author. He also desires to acknowledge his indebtedness to Wm. M. Johnson, Esq., of Mackinac
Island, for his valuable contributions to the history of that interesting locality. The statistics
in relation to that portion of the country embraced in the work are taken from the most recent
sources, and are believed to be perfectly reliable.

We are indebted to J. W. Bradley, of Philadelphia, the publisher of "The North American Indians,"
for the beautiful frontispiece in this work. Mr. Catlin, the author, visited every noted tribe,
and, by residing among them, was initiated into many of their secret and hidden mysteries.
It is a valuable work.

CONTENTS.

    CHAPTER I.                                                    Page

    Mackinaw and its surroundings -- Indian legends -- Hiawatha
    -- Ottawas and Ojibwas -- Pau-pau-ke-wis -- San-ge-man --
    Kau-be-man -- An Indian custom -- Dedication to the spirits
    -- Au-se-gum-ugs -- Exploits of San-ge-man -- Point St.
    Ignatius -- Magic lance -- Council of peace -- Conquests of
    San-ge-man.                                                      9

    CHAPTER II.

    Indian spiritualists -- Medicine men -- Legends -- The
    spirit-world -- Difference between Indian and modern
    spiritualists -- Chusco the spiritualist -- Schoolcraft's
    testimony of -- Mode of communicating with spirits -- Belief
    in Satanic agency -- Interesting account of clairvoyance.       19

    CHAPTER III.

    Marquette's visit to Iroquois Point -- Chapel and Fort -- Old
    Mackinaw -- The French settlement in the Northwest --
    Erection of chapel and Fort -- The gateway of commerce -- The
    rendezvous of traders, trappers, soldiers, missionaries, and
    Indians -- Description of fort -- Courriers des Bois --
    Expedition of Marquette and Joliet to explore the Mississippi
    -- Green Bay -- Fox River -- Wisconsin -- Mississippi --
    Peoria Indians -- Return trip -- Kaskaskia Indians -- St.
    Xavier Missions -- Mission to "the Illinois" -- Marquette's
    health declines -- Starts out on return trip to Mackinaw --
    Dies and is buried at mouth of Marquette River -- Indians
    remove his remains to Mackinaw -- Funeral cortege --
    Ceremonies -- Burial in the chapel -- Changes of time --
    Schoolcraft on the place of Marquette's burial --
    Missilimackinac -- Name of Jesuit missions.                     39

    CHAPTER IV.

    La Salle's visit to Mackinaw -- English traders -- La
    Hontan's visit -- Mackinaw an English fort -- Speech of a
    Chippewa chief -- Indian stratagem -- Massacre of the English
    at the fort -- Escape of Mr. Alexander Henry -- Early white
    settlement of Mackinaw -- Present description -- Relations of
    the Jesuits -- Remarkable Phenomena -- Parhelia --
    Subterranean river.                                             61

    CHAPTER V.

    Island of the giant fairies -- Possession by the English --
    Erection of government house -- French remain at Old Mackinaw
    -- Finally abandoned -- Extent of the island -- History --
    Description -- Natural curiosities -- Arch Rock -- Sugar Loaf
    Rock -- Scull Rock -- Dousman's farm -- Davenport's farm --
    Robinson's folly -- The Devil's Punch Bowl -- Healthful
    atmosphere -- Transparency of the waters -- Compared with
    Saratoga, Cape May, and Mt. Washington as a point for health
    and recreation -- Description of a traveler in 1854 --
    Arrival of steamers and sailing vessels at the port during
    the year -- Mr. Johnson's reminiscences -- Indian name of
    island -- Mythology -- Three brothers of the great genii --
    Visit to the subterranean abode of the genii -- Vision --
    Apostrophe of an old Indian chief -- Old buildings -- Door of
    Marquette's chapel -- John Jacob Astor and the fur trade --
    Present support of the place -- Fort Mackinaw -- Fort Holmes
    -- Fine view -- Interesting localities -- War of 1812 --
    Death of Major Holmes -- Soil of the island.                    83

    CHAPTER VI.

    Lake Superior -- Scenery -- Transparency of its waters --
    Climate -- Isle Royale -- Apostles' Islands -- La Point --
    Thunder Cape -- Cariboo Point -- A wonderful lake -- Romantic
    scenery -- Pictured rocks -- Rock Castle -- The Grand Portal
    -- The chapel -- Fluctuations in the waters of Lake Superior
    -- Curious phenomena -- Retrocession of the waters -- Mirage
    -- Iron mountains and mines -- Description of -- Products --
    Shipments -- Copper -- Immense boulders -- Produce of the
    mines for 1857 -- Shipment of copper from the Lake for 1858
    -- Centre of the mining country -- Iron mountains -- Copper
    mines of Great Britain -- Coal -- Mackinaw a great
    manufacturing point -- Key to the Upper Lakes -- Commerce of
    lakes -- Growth of cities.                                     105

    CHAPTER VII.

    Lake Huron -- Eastern shore of Michigan -- Face of the
    country -- Picturesque view -- Rivers -- Grand -- Saginaw --
    Cheboy-e-gun -- Natural scenery -- Fort Gratiot -- White Rock
    -- Saginaw Bay -- Thunder Bay -- Bois Blanc Island --
    Drummond's Island -- British troops -- St. Helena Island --
    Iroquois Woman's Point -- Point La Barbe -- Point aux Sable
    -- Point St. Vital -- Wreck of the Queen City -- St. Martin's
    Island -- Fox Point -- Moneto pa-maw -- Mille au Coquin --
    Great fishing places -- Cross village -- Catholic convent.     127

    CHAPTER VIII.

    Three epochs -- The romantic -- The military -- The
    agricultural and commercial -- An inviting region -- Jesuit
    and Protestant Missions -- First Protestant mission -- First
    missionary -- Islands of Mackinac and Green Bay -- La Pointe
    -- Saut St. Mary -- Presbyterians -- Baptists -- Methodists
    -- Revival at Fort Brady -- Ke-wee-naw -- Fon du Lac --
    Shawnees -- Pottawatimies -- Eagle River -- Ontonagon -- Camp
    River -- Iroquois Point -- Saginaw Indians -- Melancholy
    reflections -- Number of Indians in the States and
    Territories.                                                   143

    CHAPTER IX.

    Indian name of Michigan -- Islands -- Lanman's Summer in the
    Wilderness -- Plains -- Trees -- Rivers -- A traditionary
    land -- Beautiful description -- Official report in relation
    to the trade of the lakes -- Green Bay -- Grand Traverse Bay
    -- Beaver Islands -- L'Arbre Croche -- Boundaries of Lake
    Michigan -- Its connections -- Railroad from Fort Wayne to
    Mackinaw -- Recent report of -- Amount completed -- Land
    grants.                                                        159

    CHAPTER X.

    Mackinaw, the site for a great central city -- The Venice of
    the lakes -- Early importance as a central position --
    Nicolet -- Compared geographically with other points --
    Immense chain of coast -- Future prospects -- Temperature --
    Testimony of the Jesuit fathers -- Healthfulness of the
    climate -- Dr. Drake on Mackinaw -- Resort for invalids --
    Water currents of commerce -- Surface drained by them -- Soil
    of the northern and southern peninsulas of Michigan --
    Physical resources -- Present proprietors of Mackinaw -- Plan
    of the city -- Streets -- Avenues -- Park -- Lots and blocks
    for churches and public purposes -- Institutions of learning
    and objects of benevolence -- Fortifications -- Docks and
    ferries -- Materials for building -- Harbors -- Natural
    beauty of the site for a city -- Mountain ranges -- Interior
    lakes -- Fish -- Game.                                         173

    CHAPTER XI.

    The entrepot of a vast commerce -- Surface drained --
    Superiority of Mackinaw over Chicago as a commercial point --
    Exports and imports -- Michigan the greatest lumber-growing
    region in the world -- Interminable forests of the choicest
    pine -- Facilities for market -- Annual product of the
    pineries -- Lumbering, mining, and fishing interests --
    Independent of financial crises -- Mackinaw the centre of a
    great railroad system -- Lines terminating at this point --
    North and South National Line -- Canada grants -- Growth of
    Northwestern cities -- Future growth and prosperity of
    Mackinaw -- Chicago -- Legislative provision for opening
    roads in Michigan -- The Forty Acre Homestead Bill -- Its
    provisions.                                                    205

    CHAPTER XII.

    The Great Western Valley -- Its growth and population --
    Comparison of Atlantic with interior cities -- Relative
    growth of river and lake cities -- Centre of population --
    Lake tonnage -- Progress of the principal centres of
    population.                                                    228

    CHAPTER XIII.

    Michigan Agricultural Reports for 1854 -- Prof. Thomas'
    report -- Report of J. S. Dixon -- Products of States --
    Climate -- Army Meteorological Reports.                        255

    CHAPTER XIV.

    Agricultural interest -- Means of transportation -- Railways
    and vessels -- Lumber -- Vessels cleared -- Lake cities and
    Atlantic ports -- Home-market -- Breadstuffs -- Michigan
    flour -- Monetary panics -- Wheat -- Importations --
    Provisions -- Fruit -- Live stock -- Wool -- Shipping
    business -- Railroads -- Lake Superior trade -- Pine lumber
    trade -- Copper interest -- Iron interest -- Fisheries --
    Coal mines -- Salt -- Plaster beds.                            272

    CHAPTER XV.

    Desirableness of a trip to the Lakes -- Routes of travel --
    Interesting localities -- Scenery -- Southern coast --
    Portage Lake -- Dr. Houghton -- Ontonagon -- Apostles'
    Islands -- Return trip -- Points of interest -- St. Mary's
    River -- Lake St. George -- Point de Tour -- Lake Michigan --
    Points of interest -- Chicago.

Mackinaw, with its surroundings, has an interesting and romantic history, going back to the
earliest times. The whole region of the Northwest, with its vast wildernesses and mighty lakes,
has been traditionally invested with a mystery. The very name of Mackinaw, in the Indian tongue,
signifies the dwelling-place of the Great Genii, and many are the legends written and unwritten
connected with its history. If the testimony of an old Indian chief at Thunder Bay can be credited,
it was at old Mackinaw that Mud-je-ke-wis, the father of Hiawatha, lived and died.

Traditional history informs us that away back in a remote period of time, the Ottawas and the
Ojibwas took up their journey from the Great Salt Lake towards the setting sun. These tribes
were never stationary, but were constantly roving about. They were compared by the neighboring
tribes to Paw-pau-ke-wis, a name given by the Indians to the light-drifting snow, which blows
over the frozen ground in the month of March, now whirling and eddying into gigantic and anon
into diminutive drifts. Paw-pau-ke-wis signifies running away. The name was given to a noted
Indian chief, fully equal in bravery and daring to Hiawatha, Plu-re-busta, or Man-a-bosho.

The Ottawas and Ojibwas dwelt for a time on the Manitoulin Island in Lake Huron. While the
tribes dwelt here, two distinguished Indian youths, by the name of San-ge-man and Kau-be-man,
remarkable for their sprightliness, attracted the attention of their particular tribes. Both
were the youngest children of their respective families. It was the custom of the Indians to
send their boys, when young, to some retired place a short distance from their village, where
they were to fast until the manitoes or spirits of the invisible world should appear to them.
Temporary lodges were constructed for their accommodation. Those who could not endure the fast
enjoined upon them by the Metais or Medicine-men, never rose to any eminence, but were to remain
in obscurity. Comparatively few were able to bear the ordeal; but to all who waited the appointed
time, and endured the fast, the spiritual guardian appeared and took the direction and control
of their subsequent lives. San-ge-man in his first trial fasted seven days, and on the next
he tasted food, having been reduced to extreme debility by his long abstinence, during which
his mind became exceedingly elevated. In this exaltation his spiritual guide appeared to him.
He was the spirit of the serpent who rules in the centre of the earth, and under the dark and
mighty waters. This spirit revealed to him his future destiny, and promised him his guardianship
through life. San-ge-man grew up and became remarkably strong and powerful. From his brave
and reckless daring he was both an object of love and fear to the Ottawas.

About this time, as the legend runs, the former inhabitants of the Manitoulin Island and the
adjoining country, who have the name of the Au-se-gum-a-ugs, commenced making inroads upon
the settlements of the combined bands, and killed several of their number. Upon this the Ojibwas
and Ottawas mustered a war party. San-ge-man, though young, offered himself as a warrior; and,
full of heroic daring, went out with the expedition which left the Island in great numbers
in their canoes, and crossed over to the main land on the northeast. After traveling a few
days they fell upon the war path of their enemies, and soon surprised them. Terrified, they
fled before the combined forces; and in the chase, the brave and daring youth outstripped all
the rest and succeeded in taking a prisoner in sight of the enemies' village. On their return
the Ojibwas and Ottawas were pursued, and being apprised of it by San-ge-man, they made good
their escape, while the young brave, being instructed by his guardian spirit, allowed himself
to be taken prisoner. His hands were tied, and he was made to walk in the midst of the warriors.
At night they encamped, and after partaking of their evening meal, commenced their Indian ceremonies
of drumming and shaking the rattle, accompanied with war songs. San-ge-man was asked by the
chief of the party, if he could che-qwon-dum, at the same time giving him the rattle. He took
it and commenced singing in a low, plaintive tone, which made the warriors exclaim, "He is
weak-hearted, a coward, an old woman". Feigning great weakness and cowardice, he stepped up
to the Indian to whom he had surrendered his war club; and taking it, he commenced shaking
the rattle, and as he danced round the watch-fire, increasing his speed, and, gradually raising
the tone of his voice, he ended the dance by felling a warrior with his club, exclaiming, "a
coward, ugh!" Then with terrific yells and the power of a giant, he continued his work of death
at every blow. Affrighted, the whole party fled from the watch-fire and left him alone with
the slain, all of which he scalped, and returned laden with these terrible trophies of victory
to join his companions who returned to the Island.

San-ge-man having by his valor obtained a chieftainship over the Ottawas, started out on the
war path and conquered all the country east and north of Lake Huron. The drum and rattle were
now heard resounding through all the villages of the combined forces, and they extended their
conquests to Saut St. Mary. For the purpose of bettering their condition they removed from
the Island to the Detour, or the mouth of the St. Mary's river, where they occupied a deserted
village, and there separated, part going up to the Saut, which had also been deserted, and
the other portion tarrying in the above village for a year.

At the expiration of this time San-ge-man led a war party towards the west, and reached the
present point St. Ignatius, on the north side of the straits where he found a large village.
There was also another village a little east of Point St. Ignatius, at a place now called Moran's
Bay, and still another at Point Au Chenes on the north shore of Lake Michigan, northeast of
the Island of Mackinaw. At these places, old mounds, ditches, and gardens were found, which
had existed from an unknown period. From this point a trail led to the Saut through an open
country, and these ancient works can be distinctly traced to this day though covered with a
heavy growth of timber.

After a hard fight with the inhabitants of these villages, San-ge-man at length succeeded in
conquering them, and after expelling them burned all their lodges with the exception of a few
at Point St. Ignatius. The inhabitants of this village fled across the straits southward from
Point St. Ignatius and located at the point now known as Old Mackinaw, or Mackinaw City.

In the mean time, San-ge-man had returned to the Detour and removed his entire band to Point
St. Ignatius. In the following spring while the Ottawas were out in their fields planting corn,
a party of Au-se-gum-ugs crossed over from Old Mackinaw, on the south side of the straits,
and killed two of the Ottawa women. San-ge-man at once selected a party of tried warriors,
and going down the straits pursued the Au-se-gum-ugs to the River Cheboy-e-gun, whither they
had gone on a war expedition against the Mush-co-dan-she-ugs. On a sandy bay a little west
of the mouth of the river, they found their enemies' canoes drawn up, they having gone into
the interior. Believing that they would soon return, San-ge-man ordered his party to lie in
ambush until their return. They were not long in waiting, for on the following day they made
their appearance, being heated and weary with their marches, they all stripped and went into
the Lake to bathe previous to embarking for Mackinaw. Unsuspicious of danger they played with
the sportive waves as they dashed upon the shore, and were swimming and diving in all directions,
when the terrific yell of armed warriors broke upon their ears. It was but the work of a moment
and one hundred defenseless Indians perished in the waters. When the sad intelligence came
to the remainder of the tribe at Mackinaw, they fled towards the Grand River country.

The village now deserted possessing superior attractions to San-ge-man and his warriors, the
Ottawas crossed the straits and took possession, and here he remained until after he unfairly
succeeded in obtaining the magic lance.

It was while here that a large delegation of Indians of the Mush-co-dan-she-ugs from the Middle
village, Bear River, and Grand Traverse came to shake hands and smoke the pipe of peace with
him. They had heard of his fame as a mighty warrior. The occasion was one of great rejoicing
to the inhabitants of Mackinaw, and all turned out to witness the gathering. San-ge-man and
his warriors appeared in council, dressed in richest furs, their heads decorated with eagle
feathers, and tufts of hair of many colors. Among all the chiefs there assembled, for proud
and noble bearing none excelled the Ottawa. A fur robe covered with scalp-locks hung carelessly
over his left shoulder leaving his right arm free while speaking. As the result of these deliberations
the bands became united and thus the territory of the Ottawa chief was enlarged.

It was from this point that he sallied forth every summer in war excursions toward the south,
conquering the country along the eastern shore of Lake Michigan, extending his conquests to
Grand River, and overrunning the country about the present site of Chicago. It was here that
he received reinforcements from his old allies the Ojibwas, and extended his conquests down
the Illinois River until he reached the "father of waters."

From this place he went forth to the slaughter of the Iroquois at the Detour, and expelled
them from the Island of Mackinaw and Point St. Ignatius. From hence he went armed to wage an
unnatural war against his relatives the Ojibwas, and was slain by the noble chief Kau-be-man,
and it was to this place that the sad news came back of his fate. Thus much for the Indian
history of Old Mackinaw.

Equally romantic is the history of the early missionaries and voyagers to this great centre
of the Indian tribes. On the far-off shores of the northwestern lakes the Jesuit Missionaries
planted the cross, erected their chapels, repeated their pater nosters and ave marias, and
sung their Te Deums, before the cavaliers landed at Jamestown or the Puritans at Plymouth.
Among the Ottawas of Saut St. Marie and the Ojibwas and Hurons of Old Mackinaw, these devoted
self-sacrificing followers of Ignatius Loyola commenced their ministrations upwards of two
hundred years ago. They were not only the first missionaries among the savages of this northwestern
wilderness, but they were the first discoverers and explorers of the mighty lakes and rivers
of that region. In advance of civilization they penetrated the dense unbroken wilderness, and
launched their canoes upon unknown rivers, breaking the silence of their shores with their
vesper hymns and matin prayers. The first to visit the ancient seats of heathenism in the old
world, they were the first to preach the Gospel among the heathen of the new.

The earliest traditions of the various Indian tribes inhabiting this country prove that they
have practiced jugglery and all other things pertaining to the secret arts of the old uncivilized
nations of the world. Among all the tribes have been found the priests of the occult sciences,
and to this day we find Metais, Waubonos, Chees-a-kees and others bearing the common designation
of Medicine men. In modern parlance we would call them Professors of Natural Magic, or of Magnetism,
or Spiritualism. The difference however between these Indian professors of magic and those
of modern date is, that while the latter travel round the country exhibiting their wonderful
performances to gaping crowds, at a shilling a head, the former generally shrink from notoriety,
and, instead of being anxious to display their marvelous feats, have only been constrained,
after urgent entreaty and in particular cases, to exhibit their powers. The Indian magicians
have shown more conclusively their power as clairvoyants and spiritualists, than all the rapping,
table-tipping mediums of the present day.

Numerous interesting and beautiful Indian legends show their belief in a spiritual world--of
a shadowy land beyond the great river. Whether this was obtained by revelations from their
spiritual mediums, or derived from a higher source of inspiration, we know not; but most certain
it is, that in no belief is the Indian more firmly grounded than that of a spirit-world.

The Indian Chees-a-kees or spiritualists had a different and far more satisfactory mode of
communicating with departed spirits than ever modern spiritualists have attained to, or perhaps
ever will. Forming, as they did, a connecting link or channel of communication between this
world and the world of spirits, they did not affect to speak what the spirit had communicated;
or, perhaps, to state it more fully, their organs of speech were not employed by the spirits
to communicate revelations from the spirit world; but the spirits themselves spoke, and the
responses to inquiries were perfectly audible to them and to all present. In this case all
possibility of collusion was out of the question, and the inquirer could tell by the tones
of the voice as as well as the manner of the communication, whether the response was genuine
or not.

Chusco, a noted old Indian who died on Bound Island several years ago, was a spiritualist.
He was converted through the labors of Protestant Missionaries, led for many years an exemplary
Christian life, and was a communicant in the Presbyterian Church on the Island up to the time
of his death. Mr. Schoolcraft in his "Personal Memoirs," in which he gives most interesting
reminiscences, running through a period of thirty years among numerous Indian tribes of the
northwest, and who has kindly consented to allow us to make what extracts we may desire from
his many interesting works, says that "Chusco was the Ottawa spiritualist, and up to his death
he believed that he had, while in his heathen state, communication with spirits". Whenever
it was deemed proper to obtain this communication, a pyramidal lodge was constructed of poles,
eight in number, four inches in diameter, and from twelve to sixteen feet in height. These
poles were set firmly in the ground to the depth of two feet, the earth being beaten around
them. The poles being securely imbedded, were then wound tightly with three rows of withes.
The lodge was then covered with ap-puck-wois, securely lashed on. The structure was so stoutly
and compactly built, that four strong Indians could scarcely move it by their mightiest efforts.
The lodge being ready, the spiritualist was taken and covered all over, with the exception
of his head, with a canoe sail which was lashed with bois-blanc cords and knotted. This being
done, his feet and hands were secured in a like firm manner, causing him to resemble a bundle
more than anything else. He would then request the bystanders to place him in the lodge. In
a few minutes after entering, the lodge would commence swaying to and fro, with a tremulous
motion, accompanied with the sound of a drum and rattle. The spiritualist then commenced chanting
in a low, melancholy tone, gradually raising his voice, while the lodge, as if keeping time
with his chant, vibrated to and fro with greater violence, and seemed at times as if the force
would tear it to pieces.

In the midst of this shaking and singing, the sail and the cords, with which the spiritualist
was bound, would be seen to fly out of the top of the lodge with great violence. A silence
would then ensue for a short time, the lodge still continuing its tremulous vibrations. Soon
a rustling sound would be heard at the top of the lodge indicating the presence of the spirit.
The person or persons at whose instance the medium of the spiritualist was invoked, would then
propose the question or questions they had to ask of the departed.

An Indian spiritualist, residing at Little Traverse Bay, was once requested to enter a lodge
for the purpose of affording a neighboring Indian an opportunity to converse with a departed
spirit about his child who was then very sick. The sound of a voice, unfamiliar to the persons
assembled, was heard at the top of the lodge, accompanied by singing. The Indian, who recognized
the voice, asked if his child would die. The reply was, "It will die the day after to-morrow.
You are treated just as you treated a person a few years ago. Do you wish the matter revealed."
The inquirer immediately dropped his head and asked no further questions. His child died at
the time the spirit stated, and reports, years after, hinted that it had been poisoned, as
the father of the deceased child had poisoned a young squaw, and that it was this same person
who made the responses.

Old Chusco, after he became a Christian, could not, according to the testimony of Schoolcraft,
be made to waver in his belief, that he was visited by spirits in the exhibitions connected
with the tight-wound pyramidal, oracular lodge; but he believed they were evil spirits. No
cross-questioning could bring out any other testimony. He avowed that, aside from his incantations,
he had no part in the shaking of the lodge, never touching the poles at any time, and that
the drumming, rattling, singing, and responses were all produced by these spirits.

The following account of Chusco, or Wau-chus-co, from the pen of William M. Johnson, Esq.,
of Mackinaw Island, will be found to be deeply interesting:

       *       *       *       *       *

"Wau-chus-co was a noted Indian spiritualist and Clairvoyant, and was born near the head of
Lake Michigan--the year not known. He was eight or ten years old, he informed me, when the
English garrison was massacred at Old Fort Missilimackinac. He died on Round Island, opposite
the village and island of Mackinaw, at an advanced age.

"As he grew up from childhood, he found that he was an orphan, and lived with his uncle, but
under the care of his grandmother. Upon attaining the age of fifteen his grandmother and uncle
urged him to comply with the ancient custom of their people, which was to fast, and wait for
the manifestations of the Gitchey-monedo,--whether he would grant him a guardian spirit or
not, to guide and direct him through life. He was told that many young men of his tribe tried
to fast, but that hunger overpowered their wishes to obtain a spiritual guardian; he was urged
to do his best, and not to yield as others had done.

"Wau-chus-co died in 1839 or '40. A few days previous to his death, I paid him a visit. 'Come
in, come in, nosis!' (grandson) said he. After being seated, and we had lit our pipes; I said
to him, 'Ne-me-sho-miss, (my grandfather,) you are now very old and feeble; you cannot expect
to live many days; now, tell me the truth, who was it that moved your chees-a-kee lodge when
you practiced your spiritual art?' A pause ensued before he answered:--'Nosis, as you are in
part of my nation, I will tell you the truth: I know that I will die soon. I fasted ten days
when I was a young man, in compliance with the custom of my tribe. While my body was feeble
from long fasting, my soul increased in its powers; it appeared to embrace a vast extent of
space, and the country within this space, was brought plainly before my vision, with its misty
forms and beings--I speak of my spiritual vision. It was, while I was thus lying in a trance,
my soul wandering in space, that animals, some of frightful size and form, serpents of monstrous
size, and birds of different varieties and plumage, appeared to me and addressed me in human
language, proposing to act as my guardian spirits. While my mind embraced these various moving
forms, a superior intelligence in the form of man, surrounded by a wild, brilliant light, influenced
my soul to select one of the bird-spirits, resembling the kite in look and form, to be the
emblem of my guardian spirit, upon whose aid I was to call in time of need, and that he would
be always prepared to render me assistance whenever my body and soul should be prepared to
receive manifestations. My grandmother roused me to earth again, by inquiring if I needed food:
I ate, and with feeble steps, soon returned to our lodge.

"'The first time that I ever chees-a-keed, was on a war expedition toward Chicago, or where
it is now located--upon an urgent occasion. We were afraid that our foes would attack us unawares,
and as we were also short of provisions, our chief urged me incessantly, until I consented.
After preparing my soul and body, by fasting on bitter herbs, &c., I entered the Chees-a-kee
lodge, which had been prepared for me:--the presence of my guardian spirit was soon indicated
by a violent swaying of the lodge to and fro. "Tell us! tell us! where our enemies are?" cried
out the chief and warriors. Soon, the vision of my soul embraced a large extent of country,
which I had never before seen--every object was plainly before me--our enemies were in their
villages, unsuspicious of danger; their movements and acts I could plainly see; and mentally
or spiritually, I could hear their conversation. Game abounded in another direction. Next day
we procured provisions, and a few days afterward a dozen scalps graced our triumphant return
to the village of the Cross. I exerted my powers again frequently among my tribe, and, to satisfy
them, I permitted them to tie my feet and hands, and lash me round with ropes, as they thought
proper. They would then place me in the Chees-a-kee lodge, which would immediately commence
shaking and swaying to and fro, indicating the presence of my guardian spirit: frequently I
saw a bright, luminous light at the top of the lodge, and the words of the spirit would be
audible to the spectators outside, who could not understand what was said; while mentally,
I understood the words and language spoken.

"'In the year 1815, the American garrison at this post expected a vessel from Detroit, with
supplies for the winter--a month had elapsed beyond the time for her arrival, and apprehensions
of starvation were entertained; finally, a call was made to me by the commanding officer, through
the traders. After due preparation I consented; the Chees-a-kee lodge was surrounded by Indians
and whites; I had no sooner commenced shaking my rattle and chanting, than the spirits arrived;
the rustling noise they made through the air, was heard, and the sound of their voices was
audible to all.

"'The spirits directed my mind toward the southern end of Lake Huron--it lay before me with
its bays and islands; the atmosphere looked hazy, resembling our Indian Summer; my vision terminated
a little below the mouth of the St. Clair River--there lay the vessel, disabled! the sailors
were busy in repairing spars and sails. My soul knew that they would be ready in two days,
and that in seven days she would reach this Island, (Mackinaw,) by the south channel, [at that
time an unusual route,] and I so revealed it to the inquirers. On the day I mentioned the schooner
hove in sight, by the south channel. The captain of the vessel corroborated all I had stated.

"'I am now a praying Indian (Christian). I expect soon to die, Nosis. This is the truth: I
possessed a power, or a power possessed me, which I cannot explain or fully describe to you.
I never attempted to move the lodge by my own physical powers--I held communion with supernatural
beings or souls, who acted upon my soul or mind, revealing to me the knowledge which I have
related to you.'

"The foregoing merely gives a few acts of the power exhibited by this remarkable, half-civilized
Indian. I could enumerate many instances in which this power has been exhibited among our Indians.
These Chees-a-kees had the power of influencing the mind of an Indian at a distance for good
or evil, even to the deprivation of life among them: so also in cases of rivalship, as hunters
or warriors. This influence has even extended to things material, while in the hands of those
influenced. The soul or mind--perhaps nervous system of the individual, being powerfully acted
upon by a spiritual battery, greater than the one possessed more or less by all human beings."

       *       *       *       *       *

In Schoolcraft's "American Indians" an interesting account is given of a woman-spiritualist,
who bore the name of the "Prophetess of Che-moi-che-goi-me-gou." Among the Indians she was
called "The woman of the blue-robed cloud." The account was given by herself after she had
become a member of the Methodist Church and renounced all connection with spirits. The following
is her narrative:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"When I was a girl of about twelve or thirteen years of age, my mother told me to look out
for something that would happen to me. Accordingly, one morning early, in the middle of winter,
I found an unusual sign, and ran off, as far from the lodge as I could, and remained there
until my mother came and found me out. She knew what was the matter, and brought me nearer
to the family lodge, and bade me help her in making a small lodge of branches of the spruce
tree. She told me to remain there, and keep away from every one, and as a diversion, to keep
myself employed in chopping wood, and that she would bring me plenty of prepared bass-wood
bark to twist into twine. She told me she would come to see me, in two days, and that in the
mean time I must not even taste snow.

"I did as directed; at the end of two days she came to see me. I thought she would surely bring
me something to eat, but to my disappointment she brought nothing. I suffered more from thirst
than hunger, though I felt my stomach gnawing. My mother sat quietly down and said (after ascertaining
that I had not tasted anything), 'My child, you are the youngest of your sisters, and none
are now left me of all my sons and children, but you four' (alluding to her two elder sisters,
herself and a little son, still a mere lad). 'Who,' she continued, 'will take care of us poor
women? Now, my daughter, listen to me, and try to obey. Blacken your face and fast really,
that the Master of Life may have pity on you and me, and on us all. Do not, in the least, deviate
from my counsels, and in two days more, I will come to you. He will help you, if you are determined
to do what is right, and tell me, whether you are favored or not, by the true Great Spirit;
and if your visions are not good, reject them.' So saying, she departed.

