     Here's something else before we pass on
     For our dear kind teacher, Mr. W. L. Mason,
       For oft have I seen the briny tear start
       To his bright kindly eyes, while my classmates so smart
     Were kept waiting, while I tried to write like the chart.

In these days of model schools it is difficult to find an innovation or to advance a theory
of improvement which has not already been made; but it seems to me there is one crying grievance
from which all schools suffer, and which I should like to do my little mite to redress. My
ideal of a school-master is the one in the opera of "Billy Taylor." His creed is summed up
in the quatrain.

     "When a pedagogue, I'd often wish,
         I'd give prizes to the worst boys at school.
     The good boys I would like to swish,
         But alas! I would not break the rule."

Since the pleasant duty of awarding prizes has fallen to my lot, I am determined to award them
according to my theory, and lest my reasons for bestowing them may not be perfectly clear to
all, and the system of reasoning by which my results are attained appear somewhat illogical,
I will endeavor to explain my reasons.

What, for instance, can be more absurd than the usual way in which the prize is chosen for
the individual obtaining the highest per cent. in an examination? What, forsooth, is awarded
but a collection of books!!! Yes! To the very person who is supposed to know all that books
contain! It would be much more logical to my thinking to give the aforesaid set of books to
a poor plucked student who would be so glad to avail himself of a little of their weighty contents.

For, and in consideration of the aforesaid reason, and for other valuable consideration, I
hereby assign, transfer and set over unto you, my dear Miss Reidy, this little volume. It may
seem small, but believe me therein is comprised a respectable proportion of human knowledge.
It will be your consolation in time of need. In it you will find every thing a mortal mind
may desire. Do you desire wealth? You will find it described on all that certain lot, piece
or parcel of column 2, situate, lying and being on page 303. Or perhaps happiness is your aim?
That you will find near the southeast corner of page 133, the same being therein described
as the State of Enjoyment.

In short, you will have no wish unfulfilled. Go, read ye and be wise, and however friends may
forsake you, be sure this faithful Dict. will never fail you.

Another striking injustice in the bestowal of prizes is the fact the teachers get none of them,
and who, pray, is more entitled to them? Is it not the teacher who has crammed and coached
the unfortunate students to the saturation point? Now, in my model school, no such injustice
shall be done, but, what to offer? There's the question. Of course a teacher's mind is a compendium
of all human knowledge, therefore books would be out of place. So, Mr. Mason, to you I offer
no gaudy volume, but only this little machine, adapted for physical culture. It is warranted
to exercise every one of the blank muscles of the human body at once; besides cultivating the
artistic taste. Note the graceful curve it describes in the air! Note the harmony of color
in the handles! Take it, dear teacher, to have, to possess, and to enjoy the same unto yourself,
your heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns forever.

