In the old days the ingenuity of man was concentrated upon extending by any means short of
the criminal the duration of the leave. When Robert first went on leave he was young and innocent.
He had four days given him; he left his unit on the first of them and was back with it on the
last of them. The second time he improved on this and left France very early on the morning
of his first day and arrived in France again very late on the last night of it. Then his friend
John regarded his leave as beginning and ending in England, which, if the leave boat happens
to be in mid-Channel at midnight, is not a distinction without a difference. Robert's next
leave was for seven days, and he spent nine of them in the U.K. His explanation was logically
unassailable, but logic is wasted on military authorities; after that, leave got fixed at ten
days net, ten days of the inelastic sort.

Give a man an inch and he'll take an ell; give him an ell and he is no man if he doesn't improve
even on that. Moreover, how is one to fill in the dismal vacuum subsequent on the return from
one leave otherwise than by the discussion of subtle schemes for the betterment of the next
leave? The duration of it having assumed a cast-iron rigidity, it only remained to improve
the manner of travelling to and fro. John ferreted about and became aware of the existence
of a civilian train to the port and of a Staff boat to the other port. He worked up a friendship
with a Fonctionnaire de Chemin de Fer, and took the civilian train; he made a very natural,
if very regrettable, mistake on the quay, and crossed in the Staff boat. He was able to repeat
the friendship and the mistake on the return journey, and had therefore every reason to be
proud of his efforts. Nevertheless he firmly decided to say nothing about it to anybody lest
the idea should get overworked. But he told Robert in confidence, and Robert told a lot of
other people, also in confidence, and the idea did get overworked and is now (vide General
Routine Orders, passim) unworkable.

There was still scope however for Robert's ingenuity next time. There are other ways of getting
to ports than by train. Why hold aloof from Motor Transport Drivers of the A.S.C. or be above
making a personal friend or two among them? And if Orders limit the use of cars to officers
of very senior rank, why be too proud to take a Colonel about with you? If when you get to
the quay the leave boat wants you, but you don't want it, and if you want the Staff boat and
it doesn't want you, it's no use arguing about it. You sulk unostentatiously in the background
until both boats are full, and then you state a piteous case of urgent family affairs to the
right officer, to find yourself eventually crossing with the comfort-loving civilians in their
special boat. Robert was entirely satisfied with the way he wangled it, but, meaning to wangle
it again in a few months' time, he decided to tell no one about it, not even John. But he did
tell John as soon as he saw him, and John told the world. Thus, a further series of G.R.O.'s
got written, published, and very carefully brought to the attention of all ranks.

The earth having become full of free booklets containing watertight rules and regulations for
keeping officers to the straight and narrow path to the U.K., and the roads, railways, quays
and gangways being policed with stalwarts whom it is impossible to circumvent and unwise to
push into the sea, the only remaining resource is to apply to the Officer in Charge. I am told,
at first hand, that there is as much variety in the reasons urged in support of applications
as there is in the manner of the applicants. They attempt to melt him with piteous tales of
their future in England, to shame him with gruesome pictures of their recent past in France,
to hustle him with emergencies or special duties, or to bully him with dark references to unseen
powers. I had a list of them from an M.L.O. himself, who was highly suspicious even of me,
until he understood that I only wanted one thing in the world, and that was someone interesting
to talk to while I waited for the leave boat to sail. Instance after instance he gave me of
the low cunning of my species, to all of which, as I ventured to guess, he had proved himself
equal. In the circumstances, as he said, this might suggest some hardness of heart on his part,
but I readily agreed, was even the first to state, that there was no one in the wide world
more anxious to assist our irrepressibles when bent on their hard-earned holiday. But he just
couldn't do it. I put it for him that he was but the powerless and insignificant agent of an
authority greater than himself.

To that he said "Yes, and No," always, I think, a safe answer. True, he had his duty to perform,
and right well he performed it, we agreed. But he had also his powers, his responsibilities--might
we say, his scope? Yet, I gathered, there were things which, not being entirely master of himself
and his affairs, he could not do. Take my own case, for example. I suggested (very cautiously)
that it would require a very much greater authority than himself to give relief to an ordinary
person like myself, with no stronger reason to travel by the civilian boat than that my whole
financial future and domestic happiness depended upon my doing so. He said nothing to that;
I gave him but a very little chance. I said that I knew quite well that he would help me if
he could. We were unanimous as to the kindness of his heart. It was because I quite realized
that he couldn't that I didn't ask him or think of asking him. Very soon after that we parted,
I to sail for England--but not by the leave boat.

Alas! for the weakness of human nature. I am no stronger nor more able to be secretive than
Robert, John and the rest of the brethren. I bragged; and now I'm told there is a printed order
posted outside that M.L.O.'s office, making it a crime punishable with death for any officer
proceeding on leave to converse or attempt to enter into conversation with the M.L.O.

The only other thing I have to mention to you, Charles, upon this subject, is the application
of a very earnest young lieutenant, who, I'm sure, would always obey all rules and regulations,
both in letter and spirit, with scrupulous regard. His application is worth setting out in
full:--"I have the honour to apply for leave to the United Kingdom to get married from January
9th to January 18th inclusive."

Yours ever,

HENRY.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THREE AUGUSTS.

A WAR-TIME DRAMA.

ACT I.

    A room in Mary Gray's flat in the West End, August, 1914.

    There is a door R., leading into the hall. There is also a door L.,
    but it only leads into a cupboard that Mary really needs.

    Marmaduke Beltravers, a well-dressed man of thirty-five, is standing
    by a small table pressing his suit (his matrimonial suit, of
    course), but without success. His bold black eyes are flashing.
    Mary's lovely face (by an ingenious manipulation of the limelight)
    is quivering.

Marmaduke Beltravers (hoarsely). I have laid at your feet my hand, my heart and my flourishing
business, and thus--thus I am supplanted by that puling saint, George Jeffreys. A-ha!     
[Gnaws his moustache.

    Enter George Jeffreys, an English gentleman.

George Jeffreys (furiously). You here? You hound! You blackguard! You ...

Mary (realising that this is going to be no place for a lady). The butcher--know his ring.
[Exit by door R.

G.J. (pointing fiercely to cupboard). Go!

M.B. (going). Bah! You triumph now, but my day will dawn yettah. (Starts.) What was that?

Newsboy (outside). War with Germany! War with Germany!

G.J. War? Then I am a pauper.      [He does not say how, but presumably he knows best.

M.B. (ceasing to go). My day has dawned now.

G.J. How so?

M.B. Your conscience calls you, does it not, to enlist? (George nods.) I have no conscience.
While you fight I shall continue to press my suit.

G.J. (despairingly to himself). Alas! what chance will that sweet girl have against his dark
saturnine beauty and his wealth? (Aloud, hopefully, as a thought strikes him) But stay--war
with Germany--perhaps you are a pauper also?

M.B. Not I, indeed. I am a maker of munitions. A-ha!      [Twirls his moustache.

G.J. (losing his temper). Cur!      [Exit, to enlist, into cupboard. Before he has time to
realise his mistake the curtain falls.

ACT II.

    Hyde Park, August, 1915.

    A dozen energetic supers, by being extremely glad to see one another
    very many times, are creating the illusion of a gay and fashionable
    throng. Enter Marmaduke Beltravers with Mary. She is distraite.

M.B. (in full hearing of fashionable throng). Darling, I have waited patiently for you. Say
that you will marry me now.

Mary. Marmaduke, you are rich, you are beautiful and you are kind to me in your rather wicked
way. But, alas! I cannot forget the noble figure of George--my George.     [She sobs.

    Enter George Jeffreys, in the uniform of a private.

G.J. Mary!

M.B. (intervening jauntily). Well, my man?

G.J. (his vocabulary strengthened by Army life). You dash blank blighter! You ruddy plague-spot!

Mary (gazing at him with horror). Oh, George, those--clothes--don't--fit!      [Sobs heartbrokenly.

M.B. (striking while the iron is hot). Mary, you shall choose between us, here and now.

G.J. (yearningly). Mary, with you to cheer me on I will win the V.C. I swear it. My beloved,
come with me; there will be a separation allowance.

Mary (shuddering). Not in those trousers. I--can't.      [She swoons in Marmaduke's arms. George
raises his fist to strike Marmaduke. Enter Sergeant Tompkins.

Sergt. T. 'Ere, none o' that. Private Jeffreys, 'SHUN! Right--TURN! About--TURN! Left--TURN!
Quick--MARCH!      [Exit George to win V.C.

CURTAIN.

ACT III.

    Marmaduke's Mansion in Park Lane, August, 1916.

    [Enter Mary Beltravers (née Gray), unhappy.

Mary. My little dog--my only friend--I cannot find him. (She rummages absently among the papers
on her husband's desk. Suddenly she snatches up a document, reads it through and clutches at
her throat.) My husband--a German ser-py! (She turns savagely on Marmaduke, who has just entered.)
So this--this is the source of our wealth! Your munitions arm our enemies. You play the German
game.

M.B. (simply). I do. I have a birth qualification.

Mary (wildly). But I'll thwart you; I'll denounce you (seizes telephone). You shall rue the
day you married a true daughter of England.

M.B. (with sinister significance). Remember, Mary, "to love, honour and OBEY." Put down that
instrument.      [With a gesture of despair she lets the receiver fall, thus driving the girl
at the exchange nearly frantic. Suddenly the door is thrown open. Enter Captain George Jeffreys
with Sergeant-Major Tompkins and squad of soldiers.

G.J. Marmaduke Beltravers, né Heinrich Hoggenheimer, the game is up. (Marmaduke dashes to the
window. The dozen supers outside raise a howl of execration mingled with cries of "Lynch the
spy!") You see, there is no way of escape.

M.B. (drawing revolver). You shall not long enjoy your triumph. I have but one cartridge, but
perchance it will be enough for you.      [Pulls trigger, but finds action rather stiff.

G.J. Look out, Mary! These things are rather tricky in inexperienced hands.      [Marmaduke
succeeds in pulling trigger. There is a violent explosion and a large hole appears in George's
breeches.

G.J. (calmly to the baffled Marmaduke). Bad luck! That's my cork one. I lost the original when
I got this.      [Touches V.C. pinned on his breast.

M.B. (annoyed). Curse, and curse again!      [Gnawing his moustache he falls in with squad.

Sergt.-Major T. Prisoner and escort, 'SHUN! Stand at--EASE. 'SHUN. Move to the right in fours.
Form--FOURS. RIGHT. By the left, quick--MARCH. [Exeunt, leaving Mary in George's arms. The
howls of execration redouble. Then there is a tense silence, broken by the sound of a volley.

George. Mary, my own! At last!

Mary. My hero.

CURTAIN.

       *       *       *       *       *

SEASONABLE NOVELTIES.

The enterprise of the London and North-Western Railway officials, in designing a button to
obviate delays at the gate caused by the new show-your-season order, has (we understand) spurred
other lines to a similar ingenuity. Below are some of the latest novelties in ticket-substitutes.

THE POM-POM.--May be worn in any variety of hat. Very suitable for short travellers. A simple
inclination of the head permits verification by the inspector. Made in two shades--dark green,
covering any distance up to twenty-five miles of town, or red (as worn by anarchists and the
staff of the L. & S.W.R.), covering a journey up to fifty miles.

UMBRELLA AND STICK TOPS, unscrewable, faced with plate-glass, permitting the insertion of a
ticket, and its easy verification on being thrust under the nose of an official. Special quality
fitted with small electric bulb for evening wear.

For those who desire a really striking and chic novelty, that up-to-date line, the Great Eccentric,
is reported to have engaged a staff of expert tattoo artists, who will puncture the date and
designation of the pass upon the left cheek of the holder. Being not only elegant in design
but practically irremovable, these markings will form a permanent and increasingly interesting
memento of the Great War. Price according to distance and lettering.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TACTLESS.

    "THANKSGIVING SERVICE on Sunday, February 18th, Canon ----'s last day
    as Vicar of ----."--Midland Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER GLIMPSE OF THE OBVIOUS.

    "There is very general agreement in banking circles in the City as to
    the satisfactory character of the response which has already been made
    to the new War Loan, but good though it has been, the total must still
    be small compared with the need, and must fall infinitely short of the
    figure aimed at, which, of course, is unlimited."--Sunday Times.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SMILE OF VICTORY.

    [According to Reuter's Washington Correspondent, women suffragists have
    of late regularly picketed the White House. When President WILSON
    appears "they deploy so that he cannot fail to see their banners. The
    President smiles broadly and passes on."]

  Though LODGE in the Senate makes critical speeches
  And ROOSEVELT belligerent heresy preaches,
  Though Suffragist pickets keep guard at its portals--
  Undismayed and unshaken the PRESIDENT chortles.

  He "smiles" at them "broadly" and then hurries off
  To type a new Note, or perhaps to play golf;
  And, while studying closely his putts, to explore
  The obscurity shrouding the roots of the War.

  To cope with emergency once in a way
  Is nothing to facing it every day;
  And that's where the PRESIDENT'S greatness is seen,
  He's consistently cheerful and calm and serene.

  O happy idealist! Others may weep
  At the crimes and the horrors that murder their sleep;
  You've two perfect specifics your cares to beguile--
  An oracular phrase, an implacable smile.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A fourth headmaster wanted to know 'who would liev at Yorb when he
    could live at Bournemouth?'"--Morning Paper.

The answer is "Because there's a 'b' in both."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Terrible as this war has been, Mr. Hodge sees that if it had not come
    Great Britain's imagination. As the hypnotised goat is fate would have
    been miserable beyond swallowed by the boat-constrictor, so Great
    Britain would have been absorbed by Germany."--Evening Paper.

With a little rearrangement we can gather the general drift of the paragraph. But "boat-constrictor"
puzzles us. Is it a new kind of submarine?

       *       *       *       *       *

WHERE IS THE CENSOR?

    "A woman has been fined £10 for chipping lyddite out of a shell which
    had been over-filled by means of a screwdriver."--Evening Paper.

We protest against our newspapers being allowed to inform the enemy in this way of our methods
of filling shells.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR NEW ARMY OF WOMEN.

From Adjutant to O.C. A Company.

Your return of trained Bombers not yet to hand. Please expedite.

(Did you see O.C. B Company's hat at church parade last Sunday? Isn't it positively the outside
edge?)

  ELIZABETH TUDOR JONES,
      Mrs. and Adjutant.

Second-Lieut. Darling to Adjutant.

I should be obliged if I could have leave from next Tuesday, as otherwise I shall not be able
to attend the sales, and my Sam Browne is quite the dowdiest in tho whole battalion.

  JOAN DARLING,
      Second-Lieut.

O.C. Signallers to Quartermaster.

Lance-Corporal Flapper of this section has been charged for bottle, scent, one. In view of
the fact that this N.C.O. has not been supplied with bottle since joining this unit I take
it that such will be a free issue.

  EMMA PIPP,
      Lieut.

O.C. A Company to Quartermaster.

Please note fact that the boots, khaki suède uppers, pair, one, issued yesterday to 21537 Private
B. Prig, are not supplied with regulation Louis-Quinze heels. The boots are therefore herewith
returned.

  BOADICEA BLUNT.
      Capt. O.C. A Coy.

From O.C. B Company to O.C. D Company.

Herewith A.F. 26511, with cheque for pay of 2773, Private O. Jones, B Company, attached D Company,
for your attention and necessary action, please.

(Have you heard the absolutely latest? The Major is engaged, and she has asked O.C. C Company
and the Quartermaster to be bridesmaids! Not that I wanted to take it on. But think of poor
dear O.C. C! Won't she look too-too?)

  MILDRED NORTON,
      Capt. O.C. B Coy.

From Adjutant to Lieut. S.O. Marshall.

Please note that you are detailed as a member of a Board of Survey, which assembles at these
Headquarters on January 31st for the purpose of inquiring into the circumstances whereby box,
powder, face, one, on charge of this unit, became used up suddenly. The Quartermaster will
arrange for the necessary witnesses to attend, and the proceedings will be forwarded to the
Adjutant in triplicate.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR MILITARY EXPERTS.

    "The invasion of Switzerland ... if accomplished rapidly and with luck,
    would involve a threat to the French left and to the communications
    with Italy."--Pall Mall Gazette.

Our own Military Expert is of opinion that the invasion of Holland would in very much the same
way threaten the British right and our communications with Scotland.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The use of barkless dogs, songless cats and whispering parrots is
    advocated in Philadelphia, following on recent announcements from the
    battlefields of Europe that 'brayless' mules have been perfected for
    trench and other battle-front labours by a simple operation on the
    nostrils and the nerves affecting the vocal cords."--Daily Paper.

Why not speechless Presidents?

       *       *       *       *       *

NURSERY RHYMES OF LONDON TOWN.

(SECOND SERIES.)

XVI.

MARYLEBONE.

  Mary Lebone
    She gets no meat,
  She never has anything
    Nice to eat;
  A supper fit
    For a dog alone
  Is all the fare
    Of poor Mary Lebone.
  She squats by the corner
    Of Baker Street
  And snuffs the air
    So spicy and sweet
  When the Bakers are baking
    Their puddings and pies,
  Their buns and their biscuits
    And Banburies--
  A tart for Jocelyn
    A cake for Joan,
  And nothing at all
    For poor Mary Lebone!

XVII.

SCOTLAND YARD.

  "How long's the Yard in Scotland?
    Tell me that now, Mother."
  "Six-and-thirty inches, Daughter,
    Just like any other."
  "O isn't it thirty-five, Mother?"
    "No more than thirty-seven."
  "Then the bonny lad that sold me plaid
    Will never get to heaven."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

EDWARD.

Edward has red hair, a robust appearance, and a free-and-easy way with him. His free-and-easy
way shows itself chiefly in his habit of smiling upon and waving his hand to all those whom
he encounters on his daily walks. He is talkative at times, but his vocabulary is limited.
In my opinion it is limited to one word, though his mother can distinguish several words, or
says so. She must have a very much keener ear than I have--or a less rigid regard for the truth.

You will have guessed that Edward is under military age. To be exact, it is thirteen months
since he first saw the light in this troubled world. Not that the world is a troubled one to
Edward; on the contrary.

Edward takes his daily walks in his perambulator upon the sea-front of his native town. His
free-and-easy way has secured him a large circle of acquaintance there. Elderly gentlemen stop
and speak to him, which he likes, so long as they do not pat his cheek, a habit far too prevalent
among elderly gentlemen. Mothers of other babies are loud in his praises, though in their hearts
they are probably comparing him unfavourably with their own offspring. Altogether Edward has
a cheery life.

Upon a certain day Edward fell in with a very little man--so little, indeed, that most people
would have called him a dwarf. He was walking in the same direction as Edward, and overtaking
him, and Edward waved his hand and smiled and waved again.

For a while the little man ignored these overtures. But at length he felt obliged to return
them, and remarked to Kate, who propels the perambulator, "Seems friendly like;" to which Kate
replied, "Oh, he always waves to everyone."

Now the majority of people would have been rather repelled by that remark. For myself I may
say that, though Edward always smiles when we meet, I do not greatly value it because I know
he smiles in the same way upon everyone else.

But it was not so with the little man. To be classed with "everyone," to be placed by Edward
on an equality with the strong and graceful, sent a warm glow to his heart.

So Edward, in his free-and-easy fashion, had, like the boy-scouts, done one good deed that day.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The system of women and girls acting as field labourers, ploughing and
    shepherding, etc., in itself produces a rough state of
    society."--Country Life.

However this roughness is to be corrected, as we see by the following:--

    "ARRANGEMENTS FOR TO-DAY.

    "Class in Elementary Polish begins, King's College, 6."--The Times.

Splendid! These colleges think of everything.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.

So much good has notoriously been done during the great conflict by letters to the Press that
Mr. Punch, recognising the importance of having this branch of War-work taught to the young,
has engaged a gentleman of ample leisure and few responsibilities, who hides behind the nom
de guerre "Paterfamilias," to deliver a series of instructive lectures on the subject. By the
time the student has absorbed a complete course he will he qualified to write to the papers
on any topic, and, to adopt every tone from the pleading and querulous to the indignant and
hectoring. From this can follow nothing less than the complete rout of the Germans.

SYLLABUS OF LECTURES.

I.--A World in Darkness.

The world before newspapers--Unbearable thought--No Street and no Man in it--Unfortunate position
of great Generals of history, ALEXANDER, HANNIBAL, CÆSAR, etc., in lacking support or criticism
by military experts--Their fatal ignorance of public opinion--Serious handicaps in the past--LEONIDAS
never seen at lunch by Mr. Gossip--ALCIBIADES never stimulated by attacks in Athens journals--No
brainy onlooker at defeat of Armada.

II.--The Growth of the Press.

The birth of a happier era--The first English newspaper--Rapid development of the new arm--A
nation made articulate--Unfortunate quietistic tendencies: ADDISON, STEELE, JOHNSON--Foreshadowings
of the real thing--Arrival of the real thing--The Fourth Estate--The Tenth Muse--The Editor
as Dictator--The Millennium.

III.--The Vigilant Correspondent.

The Council of Ten and the Lion's Mouth--Importance of attending to other people's affairs--True
citizenship the improvement of one's neighbours--Neglect of one's own character a national
virtue--Brief sketch of Paul Pry--Brief sketch of Meddlesome Matty--Keepers of the public conscience--Human
alarm-clocks--Samples of reforms delayed by absence of letters to the Press--The circulation
of the blood--The law of gravity--The movement of the solar system--Value of iteration and
undauntability.

IV.--Range of Subject.

Every stick useful in beating dogs--Nothing too trivial to yoke with such words as "scandal"
and "outrage"--Suspicion and mistrust the letter-writer's life-blood--Necessity for believing
everyone in office negligent or corrupt--Reasons why it is better to write to the papers than
to the individual--The sacredness of publicity--Importance also of victim seeing the indictment--Value
of Who's Who?--Postal rates for newspapers.

V.--Signatures.

Real names and pseudonyms--Cases where real names are best--Cases where pseudonyms are best--Danger
of giving both name and address--The Knobkerry--The Dog-Whip--The Art of Self-Defence--The
Law Directory--Choice of pseudonyms--Latin v. English--An Advantage of "One Who Knows" over
"Audi Alteram Partem"--"Scrutator" better than "Spectator ab extra"--"One who is doing his
bit" better than "Junius"--Reasons for "War-Winner" being the best at present moment.

VI.--Model Letter with Remarks.

At the present moment no type of letter is more effective than the following:--

SIR,--Could anything be more deplorable than the spectacle, which every hour of the day and
night affords, of young and vigorous men made up to look like grandfathers. I am told that
the theatrical costumiers and perruquiers are worn to a shadow by the overwork which these
contemptible shirkers have subjected them to, and I call on you to use your powerful influence
to stop it. I am credibly informed that if a courageous investigator visiting those funkholes,
the clubs of London, were to snatch at the bald scalps so much in evidence there, he would
in nine cases out of ten find that they came away in his hand, revealing the chevelure of the
youthful and fit but craven. At any rate the experiment should be tried. I shall, of course,
be told that the Tribunals are active and vigilant and their net so tightly drawn that no one
can get through; but we all know what bunglers the English authorities are, whether at the
War Office or elsewhere. It is only in newspaper offices that true efficiency can be found.
I enclose my card and am,

  Yours faithfully,
      "WAR-WINNER."

Analysis of above--Reasons for thinking it perfect--Importance of compliment to editors--Estimate
of its probable result.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Extremes.

    "He spent 233 years in the 6th Dragoon Guards (Carbineers) and
    commanded that famous regiment in the Boer War."--Evening
    Telegraph (Dundee).

    "Sergeant ----, who is 2 years of age, is married, and has two
    children."--Same Paper, same date.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mr. S.J. Rodrigo, Vidane Aratchy of Kotahena, who was bitten by a made
    bog on Sunday, left for Coonoor last evening by the Talaimannar train
    for treatment."--Ceylon Independent.

But why make bogs if they are so dangerous?

       *       *       *       *       *

From a shoemaker's advertisement:

    "ROUGH BOYS WELL LEATHERED."--High River Times (Alberta,
    Canada).

The good old slipper has not outlived its usefulness.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "To all anonymous correspondents who have recently written to me I have
    the honour to reply that they are all blackguards."--Advt. in
    Ceylon Paper.

Though we ourselves should have waived this honour we are in full sympathy with the writer.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

TRAVEL WITHOUT TRAINS.

    (Suggested by some recent remarks in "The Observer" on eccentric place
    names.)

  Now that the rise in railway fares
    (At which no patriot cavils)
  Has chained us elders to our chairs
    And circumscribed our travels,
  I love to play the festive game
    Of astral gravitation
  To any neighbourhood whose name
    Is fraught with fascination.

  I've never sampled in the flesh
    The varied charms of Bootle,
  But mentally I find them fresh
    And redolent of footle;
  And, though my steps to that resort
    I never up till now bent,
  Imagination can transport
    My spirit into Chowbent.

  Always alert upon the track
    Of rich and strange emotion,
  To Pudsey and to Wibsey Slack
    I pay my fond devotion;
  My heart is in the Highlands oft,
    Though age its glow enfeebles,
  And soars triumphantly aloft
    At the mere sound of Peebles.

  The nightingale in leafy June,
    I own, divinely warbles,
  But equal magic fills the tune-
    ful name of Scotia's Gorbals;
  And if you ever should desire
    A subject to wax funny on,
  What theme more fitly can inspire
    The Muse than Ballybunnion?

  Some places on my astral rounds
    I'm strong upon tabooing,
  On anti-alcoholic grounds
    Grogport and Rum eschewing;
  But no such painful stigma robs
    Proud Potto of its lustre,
  Or rules out Crank and Smeeth and Stobs,
    A memorable cluster.

  The pictures rising in my brain
    Are strange; sometimes I muddle 'em,
  Confounding Pleck with Plodder Lane,
    Titley with Tillietudlem;
  In short, it's not a game of skill,
    Else I should scarce essay at;
  But it is harmless, costs me nil;
    And nobody need play it.

  The plan is simple; choose a spot,
    Then focus with decision
  Your thoughts upon it till you've got
    A clear-cut mental vision;
  And though from fact it widely errs,
    Remember in conclusion
  Only the man of prose prefers
    Eyewitness to illusion.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM THE BACK OF THE FRONT.

Extract from a soldier's letter:--

    "DEAR MOTHER,--I am thoroughly run down, and have grown so thin that
    when I get a pain in my middle I cannot tell whether it is a backache
    or a stomachache."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The choristers and I.C.U. enlivened each station along the route by
    rending sacred songs and solos as The Kano Express drew in."--Lagos
    Weekly Record.

"That's torn it," said the conductor.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Britons never shall be slaves if they will only remember the solemn
    warning of the author of the words--'To thine own self be true, and
    then thou canst be false to any man.'"--Letter in Scotch Paper.

One recognises the note of liberty, but we fear the writer must have got hold of a German edition
of "Unser Shakspeare."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HARDSHIPS OF BILLETS.

As Jim and me lies in hospital gettin' better from our wounds we talks over what we've been
through in this War.

There was the time when we was billeted with Mrs. Dawkins, just before we went to the Front,
which dwells in our memories. When the billetin' orficer introduced us into her kitchen Mrs.
Dawkins went down on the bricks and prayed she might do her duty by the two noble defenders
of her country--she meant me and Jim--who the Lord had pleased to deliver into her care. Then
she begun unlacin' Jim's boots. In a minute Mr. Dawkins come in; he said we was hearty welcome,
and was just goin' to shake 'ands with us when Mrs. Dawkins turned on 'im and asked 'im what
he meant by standin' there like a gawk and not unlacin' mine. Jim and me was very uncomfortable.

Then some little Dawkinses come in, Susan, Sammy, Billy and Elfreda, and was told by Mrs. Dawkins
to pay their respecks to us, and do it proper or she'd know the reason why. Sammy saluted left-'anded
and she cuffed him unmerciful. Jim and me begun to feel regler low-spirited.

After that she set out the tea. It was as butiful a tea as we could wish for, cakes and jam,
and bloater-paste and sardines, and bein' hungry after a long march we cheered up and looked
forward to enjoyin' it. As was correck Jim 'anded all the dishes to Mrs. Dawkins first, but
she said, "No, thank you, such things are for the defenders of the country, and it is our duty
to provide them, but bread-and-dripping is good enough for me and Mr. Dawkins and the children."

Susan, Sammy, Billy and Elfreda all begun to cry, and their father sat lookin' at 'em, the
picture of misery. It clean took away our appetites. She piled our plates with jam and sardines,
but we couldn't swaller a mouthful with them poor kids sobbin' all round the table. We was
thankful they was put to bed before supper. Mrs. Dawkins fried potaters and sausages and set
'em down in front of me Jim, with a jug of porter, and she and Dawkins and a young man lodger
sat at the other end, behind half a Dutch cheese and some water. All the meals was the same.

There was only three rooms upstairs, and Jim and me couldn't make out how it was we had a bedroom
apiece till we come across the lodger sleepin' on the kitchen table, Dawkins on the mangle
and Sammy in one of the dresser drawers. Then we asked to be allowed to sleep together, with
the lodger to one side; but Mrs. Dawkins said, "I thank the Lord we're blessed with two good
beds in our house, and as long as I have two defenders of the country in my care I should like
to catch anyone belonging to me getting into either of their beds. If we're all getting wore
out for want of sleep we can't help ourselves, we're doing our duty."

Then she asked Jim if he was warm enough nights, and before he'd time to think he'd blurted
out he wasn't quite. That evening she come down shiverin' to supper in her petticut, and said
what did it matter her catchin' her death of cold if them she had in her care slept warm and
comfortable under her meriner skirt. We felt downright brutes.

But what hurt us most was the way them kids took against us. Me and Jim is fond of kids, and
we wanted to make friends and play with 'em, but it weren't no good. They was always puttin'
their tongues out at us when Mrs. Dawkins' back was turned and talkin' loud to one another:
"I say, Sammy, I 'ates soldiers, don't you? Soldiers is greedy; poor little children don't
have nothink where soldiers is. Daddy 'ates soldiers too. He says his 'ome is a 'ell since
the soldiers come. 'Ere they are walkin' down the street. Quick, Billy! Mother ain't lookin';
turn yer nose up at 'em same as me."

To make up for her kindness to us Jim and me tried to do little odd jobs about the house for
Mrs. Dawkins, but somehow it all turned to wormwood. We slipped out early one Sunday morning
and begun siftin' the cinders in the backyard, but she caught sight of us and 'ollered so at
Dawkins she woke up all the neighbours: "How can you lay there snorin', you great lazy good-for-nothing,
and look on while the defenders of your country is wearin' themselves out 'siftin' your cinders?"

Dawkins tumbled off the mangle, thinkin' it was a fire, and he swore terrible at me and Jim.

The young man lodger took against us too. When his washin' was on the line we couldn't help
noticin' he was very bad off for underclothes, and Jim and me, havin' more shirts and socks
that kind ladies had give us than we knowed how' to wear, we took the liberty of wrappin' three
of each in paper with a label, "Hopin' no offence," and puttin' it in the chicken-'ouse where
he was in the habit of doin' his hair. We was pleased to notice next day he had got one of
the shirts on. Of course we made no remark; no more did he. But at supper-time Mrs. Dawkins
caught sight of his cuffs. She took the poor feller by the collar and we was afraid she would
have shook the life out of him.

"You thievin' rascal!" she said. "To think I should 'arbour in my house a man as ain't ashamed
to rob the defenders of his country of the shirts off their backs!" Then she begun callin'
for the police.

Jim and me tried to explain, but it weren't no use. The first chance he had the young man lodger
got out through the door. He come back in half a minute with his feet bare and his weskit all
anyhow. The shirts and socks was under his arm.

"Damn you and yer clothes!" he said, and flung 'em at me and Jim. It were very disheartenin'.

When it come to leavin' we felt we ought to show our gratitude for the treatment we had received
by makin' Mrs. Dawkins a little present. Bein' of an uncommon disposition it were difficult
to choose what would please her. I were in favour of a pink shawl; but Jim didn't seem to fancy
givin' anybody any more clothes. In the end we chose a pair of earrings.

Directly we give 'em to her we saw we'd done wrong. She turned on Dawkins like a hyener. "'Ave
I done my duty and starved us all to death and given them two the best in the house and slept
cold every night to be paid in gewgaws?" she said. "Didn't I do it willin', and wouldn't I
do it agen? and are you a man or a cur that you stand there expectin' me to put them things
into my ears instead of behind the fire?" In another minute the earrings was melted. It were
some consolation to me and Jim that she didn't refuse to shake 'ands with us when we come away;
but Dawkins did, and so did the young man lodger, and all the little Dawkinses spit at us.
We never have been able to make out who were to blame. We thinks sometimes it were Mrs. Dawkins.

       *       *       *       *       *

How it strikes the Hyphenated.

An extract from Los Angeles Germania, which describes itself as "An American newspaper printed
in the German and American languages":--

    "At last the mask is removed from the hypocritical face of England. The
    cloven hoof of British insolence has struck square into the face of
    Uncle Sam."

       *       *       *       *       *

Holders of the old War Loan who are not yet converted to conversion may be led to a decision
by the discovery that "BONAR LAW" spells "War Loan 'B.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

    "LADY SECRETARY. For small Nurses' Home where nurses do not sleep."--
     Women's Employment.

Applicants should beware, as insomnia is very catching.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

