Of all the hammers in this busy and hammering world, from the huge forge-hammer with which
the brawny blacksmith deals telling blows upon the glowing iron and beats it into shape, to
the tiny hammer that the watchmaker so deftly handles, the ivory-headed, ebony-handled instrument
of the auctioneer is the most potent. From the day it was first upraised by the original auctioneer--the
nameless and unknown founder of a mighty line of auctioneers--over the chattels of some unfortunate
mortal, to the present time, when the red flag is constantly waving in all the great cities
and towns of the world, what an immense amount of property of all kinds and descriptions has
come under that little instrument! At its fall the ancestral acres of how many spendthrift
heirs have passed away from their families forever into the hands of wealthy plebeian parvenus!
By a few strokes Dives's splendid mansion, and Croesus's magnificent country-seat, and Phaëton's
famous fast horses become the property of others. At its tap human beings have been sold into
worse than Egyptian bondage.

Horace Walpole confidently hoped that his famous collection of virtù would be the envy and
admiration of the relic-mongers and the curiosity-seekers of two or three hundred years hence;
but he had not been dead fifty years before the red flag was waving over Strawberry Hill, and
it was not taken down till the villa had been despoiled of all the curious and costly toys
and bawbles with which it was packed and crammed. At each stroke of the hammer,--and for four-and-twenty
days the quaint Gothic mansion resounded with the "Going, going, gone" of the auctioneer,--at
every stroke of the hammer Walpole must have turned uneasily in his grave; for at every stroke
of that fatal implement some beautiful miniature, or rare engraving, or fine painting, or precious
old coin, or beloved old vase, or bit of curious old armor, or equally curious relic of the
olden time, passed into the possession of some unknown person or other.

And the Duke of Roxburghe's magnificent collection of rare, curious, and valuable books, in
the gathering of which he spent a goodly portion of his life, and evinced the policy and finesse
of the most wily statesman and the shrewdness and cunning of a Jew money-lender, was soon after
his decease scattered, by the hammer of Evans, over England and the Continent. A circumstantial
history of this memorable sale was written by Dibdin the bibliomaniac.

I do not, however, grieve much--indeed, to state the precise truth, I do not grieve at all--at
the dismantling of Strawberry Hill, or at the sale of the Roxburghe library; but at the vendition
of Samuel Johnson's dusty and dearly loved books (they were sold by Mr. Christie, "at his Great
Room in Pall-Mall," on Wednesday, February 16, 1785) I own to being a trifle sad and sentimental.
For Walpole, with all his cleverness, is a man one cannot love; and as for the bibliographical
Duke, he evidently thought more of a rare edition or a unique copy than of all the charms of
wit, poetry, or eloquence. I suspect that a splendid binding would please him more than a splendid
passage. Whereas Johnson (he was never without a book in his pocket to read at by-times when
he had nothing else to do) had a scholar's love for books, and liked them for what they contained,
and not merely because they were rare and costly.

Neither can I think unmoved of the dispersion "under the hammer" of the fine library at Greta
Hall, which Southey had taken so much pains and pleasure in collecting, and which was, as his
son has observed, the pride of his eyes and the joy of his heart,--a library which contained
many a "monarch folio," and many a fine old quarto, and thousands of small, but precious volumes
of ancient lore, and which was particularly rich in rare old Spanish and Portuguese books.
Many of the old volumes in this library had seen such hard service, and had been so roughly
handled by former owners, that they were in a very ragged condition when they came into Southey's
possession; and as he could not afford to have them equipped in serviceable leather, his daughters
and female friends comfortably and neatly clothed them in colored cotton prints. The twelve
or fourteen hundred volumes thus bound filled an entire room, which the poet designated as
the "Cottonian Library." I saw, a year or two ago, among the costly and valuable works upon
the shelves of a Boston bookstore, two or three volumes of this "Cottonian Library." They are
not there now. Perhaps the lucky purchaser of them may be a reader of this article. If so,
let me congratulate him upon possessing such rare and interesting memorials of the famous and
immortal biographer of Doctor Daniel Dove of Doncaster.

And sure I am that no gentle reader can contemplate the fate of Charles Lamb's library without
becoming a prey to

    "Mild-eyed melancholy."

Elia's books,--his "midnight darlings," his "folios," his "huge Switzer-like tomes of choice
and massy divinity," his "kind-hearted play-books," his book of "Songs and Posies," his rare
old treatises, and quaint and curious tractates,--the rich gleanings from the old London book-stalls
by one who knew a good book, as Falstaff knew the Prince, by instinct,--books that had been
the solace and delight of his life, the inspirers and prompters of his best and noblest thoughts,
the food of his mind, and the nourishers of his fancies, ideas, and feelings,--these books,
with the exception of those retained by some of Elia's personal friends, were, after Mary Lamb's
death, purchased by an enterprising New-York bookseller, and shipped to America, where Lamb
has ever had more readers and truer appreciators than in England. The arrival in New York of
his "shivering folios" created quite a sensation among the Cisatlantic admirers of "the gentle
Elia." The lovers of rare old books and the lovers of Charles Lamb jostled each other in the
way to Bartlett and Welford's shop, where the treasures (having escaped the perils of the sea)
were safely housed, and where a crowd of literati was constantly engaged in examining them.

The sale was attended by a goodly company of book-collectors and book-readers. All the works
brought fair prices, and were purchased by (or for) persons in various parts of the country.
Among the bidders were (I am told) Geoffrey Crayon,--Mr. Sparrowgrass,--Clark, of the "Knickerbocker"
magazine,--that lover of the angle and true disciple of Izaak Walton, the late Rev. Dr. Bethune,--Burton,
the comedian,--and other well-known authors, actors, and divines. The black-letter Chaucer--Speght's
edition, folio, London, 1598,--the identical copy spoken of by Elia in his letter to Ainsworth,
the novelist--was knocked down to Burton for twenty-five dollars. I know not who was the fortunate
purchaser of "The Works of Margaret Cavendish, Duchess of Newcastle,"--an especial favorite
of Lamb's. Neither do I know the name of the buyer of "The Works of Michael Drayton." They
brought twenty-eight dollars. A number of volumes (one of them my correspondent opines was
"The Dunciad," variorum edition) were bought by an enthusiastic lover of Elia who came all
the way from St. Louis on purpose to attend this auction. The English nation should have purchased
Lamb's library. But instead of comfortably filling an alcove or two in the British Museum,
it crossed the Atlantic and was widely scattered over the United States of America. Will it
ever be brought together again? Ah, me! such things do not happen in the annals of books.

