"It appears tolerably certain that the wreck of the ancient civilization took place about three
generations ago, the catastrophe being both sudden and overwhelming; moreover, all the authorities
agree that only an infinitesimal portion of the race escaped, with whole skins, from what were,
in very sooth, cities of destruction. These fortunate ones were naturally the politically powerful
and the immensely rich, and they owed their safety to the fact that they were able to seize
upon the shipping in the harbors for their exclusive use. The fugitives sailed away, presumably
to the southward, and so disappeared from the pages of authentic history. We know nothing for
certain; only that they departed, and that we saw their faces no more.

"Let us reconstruct, as best we may, the panorama of those few but awful days. The first rush
was naturally to the country, but the crowds, choking the ferry and railway stations, were
quickly confronted with the terror-stricken thousands of the suburbs, who were flocking to
the city for refuge. And all through the dragging hours the same despairing reports flowed
in from the remoter rural districts; everywhere the Terror walked, and men were dying like
flies. From ocean to ocean, from the lakes to the gulf, the shadow rushed, and now the whole
land lay in darkness.

"Such was the situation in what was then the United States of America, and similar conditions
prevailed throughout the habitable world. London and Hong-Kong, Vienna and Pekin, Buenos Ayres
and Archangel--from every direction came the same inquiry, to every questioner was returned
the same answer. It was the end of all things.

"Coincidently with this great recession of the human tide, occurred the eclipse of industry,
science, and, indeed, every form of thought and progress. The plough rusted in the furrow,
the half-formed web dropped to pieces in the loom, the very crops stood unharvested in the
fields, to be finally devoured by the birds and by a horde of rats and mice. Up to the last
moment there had been confusion and dismay certainly, but the wheels of trade and of the civil
administration had continued to turn; men had stood at their posts in answer to the call of
duty or impressed by the blind instinct of habit. And then, suddenly, the sun went down, only
to rise again upon a silent land.

"The relapse into barbarism was swift. The few who had escaped were segregated from one another
in small family groups, each man content with the bare necessities of animal existence and
fearing the face of the stranger. Under such circumstances, there could be but little neighborly
intercourse, and the ancient highways speedily became overgrown with grass and weeds, or else
they were undermined and washed out by the winter storms. It was not until the second generation
after the Terror that men once more began to draw together, in obedience to inherited instincts,
and even then the new movement must have been largely brought about through the increasing
aggressions of the Doomsmen. But of this in another place.

"It has been asserted that fire played a principal part in the destruction of the ancient cities,
and it was at one time supposed that these extensive conflagrations were partly accidental
and partly attributable to the wide-spread lawlessness that marked the closing hours of the
greatest drama in all history. But later researches have evolved a new theory, and it now seems
probable that the torch was employed by the authorities themselves as a final and truly a desperate
measure. An heroic cautery, but, alas, a useless one.

"The comparative exemption of New York from the universal fate goes to support rather than
to discredit this hypothesis. It escaped the dynamite cartridge and the torch simply because
in that city no recognized authority remained in power; there was no one to carry out the imperative
orders of the federal government. There were, of course, many isolated cases of incendiarism,
but the city did not suffer from any general and organized conflagration, as was the fate of
Philadelphia and St. Louis and New Orleans. The destiny of the metropolis was decided in a
different way; already it had passed into the keeping of the Doomsmen.

"In effect, then, the highly civilized North American continent had relapsed, within the brief
period of ninety years, into its primeval estate. In every direction stretched an inhospitable
wilderness of morass and forest, with a few feeble settlements of the Stockade people fringing
the principal waterways, and here and there the smoke of an encampment of the Painted Men rising
in a thin spiral from out of the vast ocean of green leaves. To-day the wild boar ranges where
once the tide of human passion most turbulently flowed, and the poor herdsman, eating his noonday
curds from a wooden bowl, crushes with indifferent heel the priceless bit of faience lying
half hidden in the rotting leaves. Everywhere, the old order changing and disappearing, only
to recreate itself in form ever more fantastic and enfeebled, a dead being, and yet inextricably
bound up with the life of the new age. And over all, the shadow of Doom, gigantic, threatening,
omnipotent."

III

THE NEW WORLD

Again we make acknowledgment to the "Laudable" Vigilas and quote at large from the luminous
pages of The Later Cosmos. Now the reader, scenting more learned discourse, may meditate upon
skipping this chapter; nay, will probably do so. Yet, to my thinking, he will act more wisely
in buckling down to it, seeing that it contains matter of moment for the perfect understanding
of the narrative proper. The studying of guide-posts is not an amusing occupation, but it is
infinitely less tedious than to wander around all day in a fog and perhaps miss one's destination
altogether.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It is, indeed, a small world as we know it to-day. Our philosophers, reconstructing, as best
they may, the science of the ancients from the treatises, few and sadly incomplete, that have
come down to us, affirm that the earth is an orb and that another continent (perhaps more than
one) lies beyond the rim of the eastern horizon. It may be so, but the issue is not of practical
importance, seeing that there are none who care to make adventure of the great salty gulf that
lies between. And so the sea keeps its mysteries.

"On the other hand, we count it inadvisable to wander far afield. To the north, to the west,
and to the south stretches the unbroken forest, and in a few hours a man's legs may easily
carry him out of hailing of the voice of his kind. The waterways form the only regular channels
for social and commercial intercourse, and the busybody and gad-about are not regarded with
favor by honest people.

"It appears highly probable that the human race was virtually annihilated over the general
area of the ancient United States of America; it persisted only in a few particularly favored
localities and through accidental circumstances of which we know nothing definite. In our own
day, the northern, central, and southern group of colonies maintain a system of infrequent
intercommunication, and beyond that certain knowledge does not extend. It is possible that
mankind may exist in a degraded state, in many inaccessible corners of this vast continent
of ours, but this is only a possibility, concerning which the theories of the learned are no
more susceptible of proof than are the idle speculations of the vulgar.

"For convenience, we will accept the popular classification of the human race as it exists
to-day--the Painted Men, the House People, and the Doomsmen. To take them up in that order.

"The Painted Men, otherwise the Wood Folk, are the descendants of the Indians of old, but the
strain is largely mingled with that of the negro race, and, with hardly an exception, it is
the weaker qualities both of body and of mind that have been emphasized in the hybrid. From
their Indian forebears they have preserved the custom of painting their face with crude and
hideous pigments upon all occasions of ceremony; hence their popular designation--the 'Painted
Men.'

"The House People are conveniently subdivided into two classes--the townsmen, or House People
proper, and the stockade dwellers, colloquially, the Stockaders.

"The House People of the walled towns represent as nearly as may be the middle classes of the
ancient civilization. Originally, the family was the political and social unit, just as with
the patriarchs of Holy Writ, but within the last generation the community idea has been growing
rapidly, and there are perhaps a score of towns and villages scattered along the banks of the
Greater and Lesser rivers.

"The Stockaders, reversing the procedure of their kinsmen of the towns, live apart from one
another, each proprietor depending wholly upon his own resources for sustenance and defence.
Some of the larger estates contain several hundred acres enclosed by a strong timber stockade
and otherwise defended against the assaults of enemies. The head of the family, or clan, as
it might more properly be termed, is lord paramount within his own borders, even possessing
the rights of life and death. But this last authority is rarely called in exercise, since these
folk of the free country-side are naturally wholesome, honest, generous-hearted men, content
to lead a simple life and coveting no man's honor or goods. On the other hand, it must be admitted
that the stockade dweller is both provincial of habit and prejudiced of mind. He looks down
upon the townsman as a huckster in private and a shuffler in public life, and this feeling
of contemptuous enmity is fully returned by the cit, who regards the free proprietor in the
light of a boor and a bully. Moreover, it rankles in the Houseman's breast that no Stockader
pays a farthing of head-money to the treasure-chest of the Doomsmen. Now and then some well-to-do
proprietor may suffer loss from cattle thieving and rick burning, but as often as not the marauders
pay full price for all they get. And this leads us to a consideration of the Doomsman himself,
that foul excrescence upon our modern body politic. Fortunately, history here speaks clearly,
and we have only to listen to her voice.

"It was a natural procedure, upon the coming of the Terror, to throw open the doors of the
jails and other punitive institutions, thereby giving the wretched inmates an equal chance
for life. The great mass of these degraded beings gravitated inevitably towards the cities,
seeking plunder and opportunities for bestial dissipation that even the dread presence of the
Terror could not restrain. Without hope and without fear, they rushed to the vulture's feast;
here was wine and gold and soft raiment; let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die.

"It was the ancient city of New York that received the vast bulk of this army of human rats;
naturally so, since it was the supreme treasure-house of the western world. In such overwhelming
numbers did these vermin come that the civil and military administrations were literally swarmed
over. Between two days the outlaws were in complete possession, and the small remnant of the
decent residents retired precipitately, preferring to meet death under the open sky rather
than in company with their new masters.

"The years went on, but the changes that they brought were few. The descendants of the ancient
criminals remained in the ruined city, at first of necessity, afterwards by choice, finding
there fuel and shelter in abundance besides large stores of non-perishable food supplies. When,
in the next generation, these provisions became exhausted it was inevitable that the refugees
should fix covetous eyes upon the threshing-floors and herd-stalls of their rural neighbors.
But although the outlaws had continued to gain in numbers, their natural increase was not proportionate
to the growing power of their adversaries. Little by little the Doomsmen began to lose ground;
already they had been defeated several times in pitched battle, and it looked as though the
hornet's-nest would soon be smoked out.

"It was at this critical juncture that the infamous personality of Dom Gillian made itself
of commanding account, and thenceforth the balance began to incline the other way. It was but
the weight of one man's hand in the scale-pan, yet there are still many of us who remember
how heavy that hand could be.

"Infamous is the adjective deliberately applied, and with reason. Dominus Gillian, to give
him his full name, was a renegade, the unworthy son of a distinguished Stockader family. Admittedly
a man of fine intellect and force, it is equally unquestionable that he was entirely devoid
of moral sense. He possessed a genius for organization, and he succeeded in consolidating the
unruly Doomsmen into a compact and disciplined body of outlaws. Murder and rapine were quickly
reduced to exact sciences, and, unfortunately, the House People could not be made to see the
necessity of united action; the townsman and the stockade dweller preferred to contend with
each other rather than against the common enemy. As a consequence, the freebooters had a clear
road before them, and so was established that intolerable tyranny under which the land still
groans. All this occurred upward of sixty years ago.

"It only remains to add that Dominus, or, more colloquially, Dom Gillian, still lives, albeit
he must be verging upon ninety years of age. For many years he has not been seen in the field,
and it is even asserted that he no longer takes active part in the councils of the Doomsmen.
Be that as it may, his will still remains dominant to animate and direct the malign powers
created by his wicked genius. And the evil that men do, doth it not live after them?

"Such is the world, or, rather, one infinitesimal portion of the cosmos, in the year 2015,
according to the ancient calendar, or 90 since the Terror."

IV

THE MAN ON HORSEBACK

Gavan of the Greenwood Keep was a prosperous man according to the standard of these latter
days, and his estate was reckoned to be the largest and finest holding in all the western country-side.
A man might walk from break of day until darkness and yet not complete the periphery of its
boundary-lines, but the palisaded portion included only the arable land and home paddocks and
was of comparatively limited extent. Viewed from a bird's-eye elevation, this stockaded enclosure
appeared to be laid out in the shape of a pear, the house being situated near the small end.
The greatest length of the area thus enclosed was a mile and a half, and it was three-quarters
of a mile wide at the big or southern side, tapering down to a couple of hundred yards at the
northern entrance or barrier.

A quarter of a mile back from the north gate stood the keep, not one distinct building, but
rather several, built in the form of a hollow square and consolidated for mutual protection.
The principal entrance, the one at the northern end, was called the water gate, for it should
be explained that the keep stood on the bank of the Ochre brook and access was only possible
by means of a drawbridge. Some day Sir Gavan intended to turn the course of the stream so as
to carry it around the keep and thereby secure the protection of a continuous moat. But hitherto
other duties had seemed more pressing, and the plan was still in abeyance.

Entering through the covered way of the water gate, with guard-room and bailiff's office to
the right and left, one found himself in the court-yard, some fifty yards in the square. On
the right were the cow-barns, horse-stalls, granaries, tool-houses, and store-buildings, while
the dwelling proper, known as the Great House, occupied the entire left of the square, the
kitchens and other offices adjoining the retainers' quarters on the south. An enormous hall,
running clear to the roof, took up the central portion of the house, staircases and galleries
affording access to the store and sleeping-rooms on the second and attic stories. The roof
proper was surmounted by a para-petted and loop-holed structure called the fighting platform,
and it was thither that Constans had repaired upon receiving the startling intelligence of
his sister's disappearance. Let us rejoin him there.

In the leisurely moving figure glimpsed through the birches, Constans had instantly recognized
Issa. Plainly she had been out flower-hunting; with the aid of his binoculars he could determine
that she carried a bunch of the delicate pink-and-white blossoms that we call May-bloom. She
was directing her steps straight for the house, but either she was unaccountably deaf to the
continuous clanging of the alarm-bell or, still more strangely, unaware of its significance;
she walked as though in a reverie, slowly and with her head bent forward. Thunder of God! it
was a trap, and the foolish girl would not see. Unquestionably, the Doomsmen had forced the
stockade at some distant point and were even now in ambush about the keep. But Constans, for
all his keenness of vision and the assistance of his glass, could discover nothing to indicate
the presence of any considerable body of men. There was no one in actual sight save he who
sat upon his blood-bay steed, girth deep in the Ochre brook under shadow of the alders. Only
one, but that one!

Constans found himself in the court-yard; how he scarcely knew. The water gate still stood
open with the drawbridge lowered, but both could be easily secured within a few seconds should
the enemy venture upon any open demonstration. Sir Gavan stood in the covered way talking anxiously
with his eldest son Tennant, who had just returned from an unsuccessful search of the upper
orchard.

Constans, in his confusion of mind, did not notice his father and brother; he ran across the
court-yard to the horse-boxes. His black mare Night whickered upon recognizing her master,
and tried to rub her muzzle against his cheek as he fumbled with the throat-latch of the bridle.
An instant longer, to lead out the mare and vault upon her back, and he was clattering through
the court-yard and covered way.

Upon reaching the open Constans saw that the situation had developed into a crisis. The cavalier
of the ostrich-feather had forced his horse up the steep bank of the Ochre brook and was riding
slowly towards the girl, who stood motionless, realizing her perilous position, but unable
for the moment to cope with it. She half turned, as though to seek again the shelter of the
birchen copse; then, clutching at her impeding skirts, she ran in the direction of the keep.
He of the ostrich-plume spurred to the gallop; inevitably their paths must intersect a few
yards farther on.

From behind came the noise of men shouting and the thud of quarrels impinging upon stout oak;
the Doomsmen, hitherto in hiding, were making a diversion, in answer, doubtless, to a signal
from their leader. A hundred gray-garbed men showed themselves in the open, coming from the
shelter of the fir plantation back of the rickyards; they ran towards the open water gate,
exposing themselves recklessly in their eagerness to reach it.

But the defenders were not to be surprised so easily, and Constans, glancing backward, saw
that the drawbridge was already in the air and the gate closed. The outlaws, realizing that
the surprise was a failure, and unwilling to brave the arrows sent whistling about their ears
from the fighting platforms of the keep, fell back in some disorder. At the same moment a solitary
figure appeared, emerging as though by magic from the solid wall of the keep--Sir Gavan himself,
a father forgetful of all else but the peril of his children. He must have used the "Rat's-Hole"
for egress; he hurried down the green slope, calling his daughter by name. All this Constans
saw in that swift backward glance. Well, there was but one thing that he could do.

And Night knew it, too; brave little Night, how cleverly you forced yourself under the towering
bulk of that brute of a blood-bay! A thunder of hoofs and they were in touch; Constans felt
himself hurled into space; the bridle-reins of tough plaited leather were torn from his hands;
Night and he were down.

The dust cloud cleared and the boy struggled up, although his head was still spinning from
the shock of the encounter. Ten yards away lay the black mare with a broken foreleg. She was
trying to rise, her eyes glazed with pain and her flanks heaving horribly.

The blood-bay had kept his feet and his master his saddle--a hardy pair, these two. But the
desperate expedient had proved successful in that Issa was safe. Already Sir Gavan had her
in his arms, and before the horseman had fully found himself the fugitives were under the shadow
of the keep's walls.

The question of his own danger did not immediately concern Constans; he had no eyes for anything
but Night lying there in her agony. His father had given him the horse when she was a foal
of a week old, and Constans had broken and trained her himself. Well, she had served him faithfully,
and in return he would show her the last mercy. His knife-sheath hung from his girdle; he drew
out the blade and drove it home just behind the glossy black shoulder. Night shuddered and
lay still. The knife had sunken deep, and Constans had to exert all his strength to withdraw
it. The bare point of a rapier touched him meaningly on the arm; he stood up and faced his enemy.

The man on horseback laughed softly. "Oho, my young cockerel, it was but a touch of the gaff,
and now that you are ready is reason sufficient why I should prefer to wait. But that neither
of us may forget--" He bent down and caught Constans by the shoulders, turning him around and
forcing him backward until his head rested against the blood-bay's withers. Two slashes of
his hunting-knife and a tiny, triangular nick appeared on the upper part of the lad's right ear.

"That is my sign-manual of which I spoke to you an hour or more ago. It is Quinton Edge's mark,
as all men know, and it brands whatever bears it as Quinton Edge's property. Some day I may
deem it worth while to claim my own; until then you can be my caretaker, my tenant. What! no
answer? And yet it is a generous offer, I think, considering how sore my arm has grown and
how impertinently you behaved just now in interfering between me and a lady. Light of God!
but she is a bewitching bundle of femineity. But twice, boy, have I seen her; hardly a dozen
words have passed----"

He stopped abruptly and gazed hard at Constans. Then slowly:

"Your sister, I take it; there is the same straight line of eyebrow. No answer again? Well,
we will pass it over for the nonce; you have still many things to learn, and, chiefly, to becomingly
order body and soul in the presence of your lord. After all, it pleases me better to have the
last word from the lady's own lips; she had been most discourteously treated, and I would fain
be shriven. Until we meet again, then."

The cavalier put spur to the blood-bay's flank and rode straight for the Great House. The boy
stood staring after him; he did not notice the trickle of blood from the cut in his ear; he
was not even conscious that he was still in life. He remembered only the unforgivable affront
which this man had put upon him, the mark which was the infamous badge of the bondman, the
slave. Quinton Edge! Ah, yes; he would remember that face and name.

The Doomsman had ridden in cool defiance up to the very walls of the keep. It would have been
an easy matter for one of the garrison to have bored his gay jacket through with a feathered
shaft, and for a moment Constans trembled, fearing lest some overzealous partisan should thus
rob him of his future vengeance. But the very audacity of the man proved the saving of his
skin. They were brave men who manned the fighting platforms of the Greenwood Keep, and they
could not bring themselves to set upon naked courage.

Constans fancied that the man spoke to some one who stood hidden in the deep embrasure of a
window, but it was too far to either see or hear. Then it seemed that a small object fell lightly
from the window-sill. The Doomsman caught it dexterously and fastened it on his breast. Another
low bow and, wheeling his horse, he dashed down the slope. Constans ran blindly to meet him;
why, he did not know. He who named himself Quinton Edge swerved slightly in his course so as
to pass within arm's-length, calling out as he did so:

"Gage of battle and gage of love; a fortunate day for me. Believe me that at some future time
I shall answer for them both."

It was a sprig of the May-bloom that the cavalier wore in his button-hole; Constans had only
time to recognize it when the blood-bay broke into full gallop. The lad flung himself at full
length upon the turf, face downward, and lay there motionless.

V

THE RAT'S-HOLE

It was a warm, cloudy night some two weeks later, and Constans sat in the great hall of the
keep, listlessly regarding the preparations that were being made for the evening meal. Six
or seven of the house-servants were bustling to and from the buttery laden with flagons and
dishes, which they deposited with a vast amount of noise and confusion upon the tables. These
latter were of the most primitive construction, nothing more than puncheons smoothed down with
the adze and supported by wooden trestles.

The main table ran nearly the full length of the hall, and was intended to accommodate the
men-at-arms and the superior servants, together with such strangers of low degree as might
chance to be present. The furniture was of the rudest pattern--platters of bass and white wood,
which were daily scoured with sand to keep them clean and sweet, earthenware pitchers of a
bricklike hue, drinking-cups of pewter and leather, and clumsy iron forks. There was no provision
of cutlery; evidently the guests were expected to use their hunting-knives and daggers for
the dismemberment of the viands.

At the upper or dais end of the hall there was a second table, placed at right angles to the
long one and elevated above it by the height of the superior flooring upon which it stood.
This principal board was, of course, for the exclusive use of the family and distinguished
guests, and from the circumstance of its being raised above the main level the master could
command an unobstructed view of the entire household in the event of any overt disorder or
indecorum.

The viands were quite in keeping with the simplicity of the table-gear. Huge chines of beef
and mutton, with spare-rib and fowl in apparently unlimited quantity, formed the staple of
the repast, and were reinforced by vast bowls of the commoner garden vegetables and by bread
made of unbolted flour. Sweetmeats were scarce, for the products of the sugarcane are difficult
to procure in these northern latitudes. Maple sugar and honey serve as the ordinary substitutes,
and even these are regarded as luxuries, since maple-trees are few in number and bee-keeping
is but little practised. Finally, there were the drinkables, these including hard cider and
a thin, acid wine made from the wild grape.

Annoyed by the clatter of the dishes and the half-whispered conversation of the domestics,
Constans rose and walked to the dais end of the hall, where his mother and sister were seated,
engaged in the agreeable occupation of inspecting the contents of a peddler's pack. It was
an imposing array to the eye, and the chapman, kneeling on the floor close by Issa's stool,
kept handing up one article after another for closer examination. The stuff seemed worthless
enough to Constans--trumpery pieces of quartz crystal set in copper and debased silver, rings
and bangles of a hue unmistakably brassy, hair ribbons, parti-colored dress goods, pins, needles,
and a miscellaneous assortment of useless trinkets. Constans was genuinely astonished that
Issa, who had been hitherto something of a good-fellow, should seem interested in such rubbish;
but then women were all alike when it was a question of pretty things to buy. He looked sharply
at the peddler, but the latter appeared commonplace enough, a man of forty or thereabouts,
and dressed in the looped-up gray gaberdine peculiar to the guild of itinerant chapmen. Possibly
he was bald, for he wore a close-fitting skull-cap; his beard, however, was luxuriant and effectually
hid the contour of the lower half of his face. Constans stood by frowning lightly, but he had
no reasonable pretext for interfering with his sister's amusement, and in the feminine catalogue
of diversions the peddler's infrequent visit held a prominent place.

The major-domo, wearing a silver chain about his neck by virtue of his office, advanced to
his mistress's chair and announced that the meal was ready for serving. The Lady Rayne nodded,
a brazen gong sounded, the big folding-doors at the south end were thrown open, and the hall
was quickly filled with the customary throng of retainers and hangers-on. But all remained
standing in silence until the master and mistress had taken their places. Sir Gavan entered
from his workshop, and, offering his hand to his wife, led her ceremoniously to her seat, Issa
and Constans following.

To Constans's indignant amazement the peddler stepped forward, as though to take the vacant
seat alongside of Issa. But before Constans could move or speak the chapman appeared to recognize
the impropriety of which he had been so nearly guilty; with a profound genuflection, he withdrew
from the dais and found a place at the lower table. The incident had been so momentary that
it had passed entirely unnoticed by his father and the Lady Rayne; Constans could not even
be sure that Issa had understood, and certainly she gave no sign of discomposure.

"What presumption!" muttered Constans, under his breath. "These fellows are becoming more insufferable
every day, and my father sees nothing." Constans resolved that the man should be packed off
immediately upon the conclusion of the meal. He could easily persuade Sir Gavan that the fellow
had none too honest a look, while his wares were assuredly the cheapest trash. He must be got
rid of before the women had been beguiled into spending all their pin-money.

The repast dragged out to its end, and the women withdrew to the upper end of the hall, comparative
privacy being secured by large leather screens set up along the edge of the dais. The men remained
at the table for deeper potations and the smoking of rank black kinnectikut tobacco in huge
wooden pipes.

A heavy thunderstorm, the first of the season, had come up, and Constans recognized, to his
vexation, that he would have no decent excuse for turning the peddler out-of-doors. So he kept
his seat at the table in sulky silence, watching the man closely, and ready to note anything
of further suspicion in his actions and bearing. But he had his trouble for his pains, for
the fellow was the itinerant chapman to the life, even to the stock of gross stories with which
he kept his bucolic audience in an uninterrupted guffaw. Pah! would Sir Gavan never finish
his second pipe and give the signal to rise?

The storm had turned into a heavy downpour, and the peddler was consequently sure of his night's
lodging. He had been summoned again to the presence of the ladies, and, as before, Constans
stood aloof and wondered irritably how his fastidious sister could find aught in common with
this wayside huckster. She was talking to him now with an animation rare with her, her checks
flushed and her eyes glowing.

"And you have been in Doom--in the city itself?" she asked, incredulously.

"Yes, gracious lady; and not once, but a score of times. The brocades that I promised to show
you after supper will be my witness. And there are some superlative satin and silk lengths
which my Lady Rayne wished particularly to see. Will you allow me, then?"

The peddler, opening an inner compartment of his pack, drew out several pieces of stuff wrapped
up in brown linen. Removing the covering, he spread the goods upon the rug before the ladies,
holding up each separate piece to the light and expatiating upon its merits in the approved
fashion of the shopman. The two women gave a little gasp of astonishment; never had they seen
such wondrous beauty of color and finish; their little market-town of Croye held nothing to
compare to this.

"I must send for Meta to advise me," said the Lady Rayne, glancing fondly from one rich fabric
to another. "She ought to know good silk when she sees it, after living so long in Croye; and
you, Issa, seem strangely indifferent to-night. You hardly looked at this piece of brocade."

Meta, the Lady Rayne's bedwoman, speedily appeared, and mistress and maid fell into earnest
converse. Issa, as in duty bound, listened; then her attention seemed to flag again. She bent
over the open pack and picked up a chain of filigree work. It was beautifully fashioned and
looked like gold.

"It is gold," said the chapman, answering the question in her eyes. "The pure gold of the ancients;
you never see that pale yellow nowadays. Ah, yes, a pretty trinket to have brought from the
heart of Doom for the delight of a fair woman's eyes, and well worth its price of a man's life.
But, then, fortune was kind, and I did not have to pay."

"Tell me about it," said the girl, beseechingly, and her breath came short and hot.

Whereupon the chapman drew a little nearer and began a wondrous tale of a secret visit that
he had lately made to Doom, the Forbidden; of how he had crossed the river on a raft, the moon
being in its dark quarter; of his landing upon a shaking wharf, where each foot-fall left a
print of phosphorescent fire on the rotting planks; then of the marvels that he had seen there--vast
warehouses covering whole acres of ground and filled with incalculable store of goods; lofty
buildings, whose chimney-pots were in the clouds; palaces of sculptured stone, now empty and
despoiled, the habitation of foxes and unclean nocturnal creatures.

Then again of hidden treasure, heaps and heaps of yellow gold; of the fierce Doomsmen who guarded
it so well; of pitfalls and gins and siren voices that lured the soul astray; of ghastly shapes
that crept along the crumbling walls; of mystery in every sound and shadow; of treacheries
and alarms and the ever present terror of death--a tale of amazing wonder, at which the blood
ran alternately warm and cold and the heart fluttered with a certain fearful joy.

How the maid hung upon the word, her little breasts heaving and her lips parted! "You have
seen all these things?" she panted. "How wonderful! And you were not afraid? That was like
a man--to be brave----" She blushed deeply, stammered, and turned to the neglected brocades.
Constans, standing close at hand, was moved to new anger. The impertinent, how dared he! Yet
he had listened himself, and in spite of himself, for assuredly the fellow talked well.

