I saw all these letters, and received this one from the hand of this Christian hero. He said
to me:--"I went to bed a good many nights thinking that quite possibly I should be dragged
out of my bed, and beaten or hanged before morning." Notwithstanding this, he wrote on the
outside of the envelope the following words, and passed them around among those whom he knew
to be conspirators against him:

  "In answer to the enclosed, I will say to my 'Democratic and
  inquiring friends,' that I expect to leave on or before Jan. 1st,
  1940, and that though I hoped to vote for 'St. John and
  Prohibition,' I have now decided to vote for 'Blaine and the
  Protection of all citizens in their political and civil rights.'"

When he gave me this letter, he took a promise that it should not be published until after
his death. He passed away in the triumph of his sweet, but heroic faith a few months ago. He
died where he had suffered and dared for Christ's sake, in the midst of this ignorance and sin.

Such stories as his ought to be told. It is cowardly timidity for those of us who know them,
to keep them from the Christian public. Heroes and heroines answer to the roll-call of A.M.A.
workers. I have met them and mingled with them, the past three years, and I know the sinew
and fibre of their courageous faith. You, who send them out, and who support them in the field,
ought to know what they endure, and hear, now and then, an incident of their heroism.

     *     *     *     *     *

Two cases of heroic self-denial have come under my notice recently. In Macon there lives a
colored woman whose husband is in an Insane Asylum. Their home was recently burned to the ground.
She has four {164} small children with her, the eldest of whom is eleven years old, who are
dependent upon her for support. She earns just eight dollars per month, and yet she sends one
girl, aged fifteen, to Atlanta University!

A young man, whose father was a white man and who is himself a blonde, has been urgently invited
by his white grandmother to come to her home and take the position of her son's child. She
is a wealthy woman, owning a large plantation. The young man's father, her son, is dead. The
boy would have all the privileges of a wealthy young white man and inherit the property on
his grandmother's death. The sole condition which the grandmother makes is that he shall give
up all association with his octoroon mother and refuse to recognize her in any way. Thank God,
the boy is too true to his gentle and loving mother to enter into any such arrangement, even
though the bribe offered is thousands of dollars and a social position of great attractiveness.
There is a great deal of this quiet but heroic self-sacrifice among the colored people in the
South, that never finds its way into print.

     *     *     *     *     *

  THE ALABAMA ASSOCIATION.

PRESIDENT H.S. DEFOREST.

The thirteenth annual meeting of the Alabama Association was held at Salma, March 30th to April
3d, when the floods were at their highest, yet fourteen of our seventeen churches were represented.
The Sunday-school Association convened a day earlier, and one afternoon the Woman's Missionary
Association had a session by itself.

The opening sermon by Professor Andrews, was a powerful exposition of Christian love, from
the 13th of 1st Corinthians. One evening was given to the higher, Christian education; one
to three papers on "How to Secure Homes," "The Home Indoors," and "Home Piety;" and the last
to three phases of the temperance question. Pastor C.B. Curtis, whose church most generously
entertained the Association, read a very suggestive paper on "Self Support of the Churches,"
a pressing and difficult question. Almost of necessity, when there is so much to be done, and
the resources are so small compared with the magnitude of the undertakings, practical rather
than theoretical questions come to the front and engage earnest attention.

After a most satisfactory examination, six young men from the Theological Department of Talladega
College were licensed to preach, and it is noteworthy, that, besides this latest gift of Talladega
to the ministry, eleven of the fourteen churches represented at this meeting of the Association
are ministered to by Talladega College or its graduates. It is a wonder that some man wishing
to put a comparatively small sum of money where it would increase with a compound interest
of blessedness till the latter-day glories have fully come, does not endow the chair of Theology
at Talladega, and his brothers take up the same line of usefulness till both {165} College
and Seminary are presided for. Some who were taking the rudiments of learning here but a few
years ago, and who have continued their training at very email expense, are now acceptably
filling difficult and responsible positions in school, in business and in church. There is
more of this work to be done, and to be allowed to help seems a privilege precious enough to
make life vastly desirable.

     *     *     *     *     *

  TEMPERANCE WORK IN OUR SCHOOLS.

  Our esteemed neighbor at 58 Reade Street, Mr. J.N. Stearns,
  Publishing Agent of the National Temperance Society, recently made
  a visit to Florida. On his return trip, he visited several of the
  A.M.A. schools in the South, and his practiced eye of course
  detected the facts in regard to temperance instruction and
  influence. We quote the following items:

At Beach Institute, Savannah, under care of the American Missionary Association, Miss A.A.
Holmes principal, I found 230 pupils and a strong temperance sentiment. The entire school receives
sound temperance instruction. Stirring temperance songs ring through the halls. A Band of Hope
holds regular meetings. "Mother Goose and Her Temperance Family," was performed with great
satisfaction by the pupils, and a photograph group of the actors taken and preserved as a memento
of the occasion. "Alcohol and Hygiene" and the "Catechism on Alcohol" are among the studies.

At Charleston I found Avery Institute slowly recovering from the effects of the earthquake
which effectually scattered its students. Over 200, however, were now in attendance, under
the auspices of the American Missionary Association, with Professor M.A. Holmes principal.
Temperance is a cardinal virtue here, but they greatly need a temperance library and other
literature. All these schools have a severe struggle to sustain their ordinary work, and must
depend largely upon outside help for temperance literature. They can use to great advantage
and carefully distribute, without expense, to the community round about if only the material
is furnished.

At Wilmington, N.C., a great work has been accomplished. It has 20,000 inhabitants, 12,000
of which are colored. In 1881, when the vote on prohibition was taken in the State, it was
all against the proposition. A wonderful change for the better has taken place. I had a most
pleasant visit to Gregory Institute of 250 pupils, Mr. George A. Woodard principal. This is
also under the American Missionary Association. "Alcohol and Hygiene" is taught in the higher
branches and temperance pervades every department. An open temperance society, with Rev. George
S. Rollins president, holds regular evening meetings, with temperance songs, recitations, dialogues,
essays and speeches, for entertainment and instruction. The regular meeting occurred the evening
I was in town, and I greatly enjoyed the exercises. Carolina Mills was proposed for {166} membership,
and a committee of three appointed to "investigate and report." The report was "favorable,"
and read in regular order and adopted. The candidate came forward to take the pledge, and proved
to be a young man of genuine African descent. The entire programme was rendered with great
credit to all concerned.

     *     *     *     *     *

THE INDIANS.

  LETTER FROM AN INDIAN CHIEF IN DAKOTA.

  My Dear Sir:----Will you Please I have got your letter and I was
  vey glad--and vey Good letter--and I tell My Indian friends all
  good men and We are vey glad to see your good paper. And, Now, We
  Mandans Indian We are maken houses this River south sides and We
  are farmes And we have Great fields--and We like Vey much the White
  man Ways--and We are White mans--and We are a Friends to the White,
  and We hear much talk of you and we are good Indians Mandans. We do
  not do foolish to the Whites, and We are a good Friends to the
  Whites----And now I wants to know the Great Fathers Wishes to us.
  Please good tell me the Great fathers what he say to us--When you
  get this letter Please Write to me Yery soon. Good buy--

  I am Very your truly friends,

  MR. WOLFE, Chief.

  Fort Berthold West, 30 miles from here I live and have 16 acres and
  I am glad. I have a cow, 6 horses, a wagon, a plow. I have three
  houses and a store. I live south side this River. Yours,

  MR. WOLFE, Chief.

     *     *     *     *     *

THE CHINESE.

  EVANGELISTIC WORK.

It is now nearly five months since our evangelists went forth, and the record of their work,
if I had both grace and space to give it in graphic detail, could not but interest the readers
of the MISSIONARY. Chin Toy was to labor in our more northern missions, viz., Stockton, Sacramento,
Marysville and Oroville, and Loo Quong was to go south to Santa Barbara and San Diego and certain
other cities where Chinese had congregated, but in which there appeared to be none to care
for their souls. Subsequently another brother entered the field, Yong Jin, laboring first at
Santa Cruz, and now at Tucson, Arizona.

The intention was to give one month of service at each mission, and one gratifying feature
of our experience has been that at no point has this {167} one month been deemed sufficient.
In every case an urgent plea has come for a longer visit and a larger work. In some cases,
as with Chin Toy in Sacramento, and Loo Quong at San Diego, it has been necessary to yield
to these appeals. The work needed could not be fulfilled in the month assigned. But in general
we have adhered to the original plan, so as to cover the whole field.

The results have justified the undertaking. The work of these brethren has been greatly blessed,
first of all, to those who were already believers in Jesus. They have been taught the truth
more perfectly. They have had their conceptions of a Christian's duty and a Christian's privileges
raised. They have been brought into closer harmony with each other. It is too much to expect,
perhaps, in view of facts as they transpire in churches of American Christians--Christians
"to the manner born"--that our little groups of Chinese believers born as "aliens from the
commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise," should be free from all
envies and jealousies, walking always in brotherly love. We wish it were so, but our wish is,
as yet, but partially fulfilled. Our evangelists have so presented Christ, and so magnified
the duty and the blessing of brotherly love, and so exercised, also, their gifts of Christian
diplomacy, as to become peace-makers, and to restore a truly spiritual order at points where
chaos seemed impending.

They have been "in labors abundant." The following from Yong Jin, at Santa Cruz, puts in fewest
words their ordinary work: "This school has nineteen or twenty scholars. About sixteen come
to take the lesson every evening. Mrs. Willett teach and I teach. [i.e. during the usual school
session from 7 till 9 p.m.] After the school is out, I teach them the Bible lesson about half
so long. [i.e. from 9.15 till 10.15 p.m.] Monday, Tuesday and Thursday evenings gave them the
Bible lesson of Chinese. Wednesday and Friday evenings, the Bible lesson of English. Saturday
evenings we have meeting. Sunday noon, I did preach in the street--three times since I came
here." With this is associated constant visiting of such Chinese as either cannot or will not
attend the school, seeking to sow beside all waters. Also study; in some cases aided through
the kindness of some resident pastor, for these brethren have entered upon this work untrained
except in the work itself, and one point of greatest moment in their present service is to
learn how to render better service in the years to come. Street preaching is undertaken wherever
possible. What a hearing can be secured if only some American Christians will cooperate, was
well illustrated in the experience of Loo Quong at San Diego. I cite the following sentences:
"This afternoon we have a grand time in preaching the good news of Jesus to the Chinese. There
were more than ten good people who had gathered there to help me in the singing. After half
an hour of hard talk, [i.e., earnest laborious speaking,] then Mr. Kirby, an old gentleman,
next is Rev. Dr. Harwood, then a stranger. {168}

All these speakings I have put in Chinese and they were listened to by at least a thousand
Chinese and whites. Among the helpers were Mrs. Noble and Mrs. McKensie and the whole family
of Rev. Dr. Harwood. Besides these were many other good Christian ladies who stood around me
and were given willing lips to join the singing. I cannot tell you all about our street preaching
here. I will leave it for you to think about and enjoy. Amen."

God has used this preaching of the Word, not only to edify the brethren, but to bring men to
repentance. The numbers may seem small when compared with those reported by our American evangelists
laboring among the tens of thousands in our great cities, but, under the circumstances, they
are very cheering. At Stockton, 1; Sacramento, 1; San Buenaventura, 3; San Diego, 3; Oakland,
4; San Francisco, 5; Tucson, 5; Santa Barbara, 7; Santa Cruz, 11. Total 40. This is the harvest
of the past five months. If the work of the whole year should yield corresponding returns,
it will be the most fruitful of our whole history. Much remains unsaid, for which I may find
space hereafter.

WM. C. POND.

     *     *     *     *     *

The Chinese have been considered by many impervious to Christian influence, but the following
paragraph shows that by "deeds, not words," the Oriental, sometimes, expresses his gratitude.
Sometime ago a Chinaman in a Sunday-school was taken ill, and, through the influence of its
superintendent, admission to a hospital was secured, until he was able to return to his native
land. But no word of thanks was given for the faithful care and unwearied attentions he had
received, and only the assurance of the Master's approbation cheered the hearts of those who
had sowed the gospel truth in his name. The weeks went by, when from over the sea came a living
testimony of the gratitude of this Chinamen in the form of his young son, whom he had sent
to America with the injunction to find the unforgotten superintendent, and go to her Sunday-school.
For five months now he has been under her care, and at the recent reception given by the Chinese
scholars to their teachers, on their New Year, he wrote in a clear, well-defined hand, every
word correctly spelled, this letter to his teacher, who had sent him her regrets that she could
not be present.

  My Dear Teacher:

  I thank you for your letter. I am sorry you could not come to the
  supper last Monday night. I am glad you can teach me every Sunday.
  I like to go to Sunday-school. Please write to me again.

  Yours truly----

Five months ago this boy was unable to speak or understand a word of English; now he can read,
write, and repeat the Lord's Prayer from memory, a task he studied long and patiently to accomplish.

     *     *     *     *     *

The Woman's Missionary Association of Alabama held its annual meeting in connection with the
State Association, April 2d, at Selma. The meeting was well attended, and encouraging reports
were had from many of the auxiliaries. The advantage of the local missionary societies to the
church and Sunday-school work was emphasized, and a desire for more thorough local work was
very apparent in the meeting. Many subjects of interest were discussed. Among them the following:
Industrial Training in our Schools; Industrial Training in our Homes; Should there be a Woman's
Missionary Society in every church? If so, the reason why every sister in the church should
be a member; What shall we do to make our Local Societies more active?

Greetings of the Second Woman's Temperance Union of Alabama, were presented at this meeting.
This Union is composed of colored women of various views, together with Northern missionaries
and teachers. There is no doubt that their work for purity and sobriety is most efficient,
yet this Union can have no dealings with the other Union, though color hinders neither of the
vices which the Unions oppose.

     *     *     *     *     *

The Woman's Home Missionary Union of Michigan leads with "Lesson Leaves" for its auxiliaries
on the work of the different National Societies. We give the programme for the A.M.A. for the
benefit of any who may wish to follow this example.

Hymn.--"Work, for the night is coming."

Bible Reading.--I Chronicles 29: 1-18. {170}

Special Subject for Prayer.--That obstacles in the way of the speedy coming of Christ be removed.

First Topic.--When, Where and How did this Society originate? (See "History of American Missionary
Association," also "A Catechism.")

Second Topic.--What are some of the results and a general summary of the work done in forty-six
years? (See same papers, and also "Pamphlet No. 10--Forty Years of Missionary Work, Past and
Present.")

Third Topic.--What are the four grand divisions of its work, and where are its various fields
of operations? (See same papers.)

Fourth Topic.--When was the Bureau of Woman's Work organized, and what is its special department?
(See "Forty Years of Missionary Labor," page 17; also, Leaflet "Bureau of Woman's Work," "Freed
Women of the South," and "Sewing Needed.")

For pamphlets and leaflets mentioned above, apply to Miss D.E. Emerson, 56 Reade St., New York.

     *     *     *     *     *

The ladies in the North who are engaged in every good work for the Lord will be glad to find
that there are those in the South who share their burdens, and their faith, also. The letter
below was written by one of our most intelligent and earnest Christian workers--a colored lady
educated in one of our schools.

"Our usual lines of work have gone on with about the same results, except among the women.
Our Woman's Prayer Meeting shows unusual fervor, and we are expecting to make this meeting
felt in the community and church. Satan seems on the war-path, and we women feel that we must
be wide-awake and closer to the Lord, if the power of evil is to be checked. In our last meeting
the one feeling each expressed was: 'What can I do? I feel that I am called to work for the
Master, but what can I do for Christ?' In the struggle for bread, the time of many of the women
is used all the day; then the house must be cared for, and when this is done, strength fails.
I tried to impress the thought that much is gained when a soul is anxious to work for the Lord,
and that such a soul will not be left unguided, which seemed to comfort many a tired mother.

"My difficulty is different. I am perplexed to know which of the many phases of Christian work
to adopt for these women, and how to keep up interest and attendance without multiplying meetings.
I am confident that our regular four weekly meetings and the regular monthly meetings are all
they can attend, yet they need others. I am often reminded of my dear mother's prayer which
she used to cry out when greatly tried in the days of slavery: 'Oh! for Job's patience and
Joshua's resolution, that we might all pull together like Pharaoh's horses.' And I would add:
'Oh! for Solomon's wisdom and Samson's strength, that we might understand and do the Lord's work.'"

     *     *     *     *     *

{171}

RECEIPTS FOR APRIL, 1888.

   MAINE, $224.38.

Acton. Cong. Ch. and Soc. $5.00 Camden. Elm St. Cong. Ch. 22.70 Castine. Class 9, Trinitarian
Sab. Sch., for Student Aid, Tougaloo U. 1.26 Center Lebanon. "A Friend" 5.00 Bingham. Cong.
Ch. 3.15 Blue Hill. "Pansy Band," for Woman's Work 2.00 Brewer. First Cong. Ch. and Soc. 16.50
Gorham. Sab. Sch. of First Cong. Ch., for Selma, Ala. 10.00 Greenville. Cong. Ch. 23.00 Kennebunk.
Rev. G.A. Lockwood, for Pleasant Hill, Tenn. 5.00 Lincoln. Cong. Ch. 2.00 Phillips. By Miss
C.T. Crosby, for Freight 0.68 Portland. Y.P.S.C.E. of Williston Ch., for Wilmington, N.C. 8.00
Portland. Ladies of Maine State Reform Sch., for Woman's Work 6.00 Portland. Miss Marie Holt's
S.S. Class, Box of Basted Work, etc., for Selma, Ala. Portland. Mrs. Mary C. Ingalls 2.00 Scarboro.
Rev. A. Smith 5.00 Searsport. Sab. Sch. of Cong. Ch., for Pleasant Hill, Tenn. 6.09 Sidney.
Mrs. A. Sawtelle, for Woman's Work 1.00 Woodfords. By Mrs. C.A. Woodbury, Bbl. of C., for Selma,
Ala. -------- 124.38

     LEGACY.

Bethel. Estate of Sarah J. Chapman, by A.W. Valentine, Ex.  100.00
                                                            ------
                                                           $224.38

   NEW HAMPSHIRE, $189.75.

Atkinson. Cong. Ch. and Soc., bal. to const. DANIEL W. REYNOLDS, L.M. 10.50 Berlin Falls. Parish
Ch. of Christ                                     5.00 Concord. "A Friend"                
5.00 East Jaffrey. "Friends," Bbl. of C., for Greenwood, S.C. Hinsdale. Cong. Ch.         
9.75 Kingston. "A Friend"                                                   5.00 Littleton.
Mr. and Mrs. D.C. Remick, 10; Benj. W. Kilburn, 5, for Atlanta U. ..15.00 Littleton. Mrs. B.W.
Kilburn                                           5.00 Nashua. First Ch.                  
30.00 North Hampton. Cong. Ch. and Soc.                                     17.00 West Lebanon.
Cong. Ch.                                               37.00 Penacook. Cong. Ch., for Indian
M.                                   5.00 South Newmarket. Cong. Ch. and Soc.             
5.00 Stratham. Cong. Ch.                                                   24.50 Sunapee. Sab.
Sch., for Lexington, Ky.                               7.00 Winchester. Sab. Sch. of Cong.
Ch.                                     4.00

   VERMONT. $385.88.

Berlin. First Cong. Ch. 16.00 Brookline. Mrs. S.G. Hastings 5.00 Burlington. Y.P.S.C.E., First
Cong. Ch., for Indian M. 20.00 Burlington. Y.P. Soc. of C.E., Bbl. of C., for McIntosh, Ga.
Charlotte. "Ladies," by Mrs. Ellen D. Wild, for McIntosh, Ga. 15.00 Clarendon. Mrs. N.J. Smith
5.00 Dorset. Cong, Ch. (10 of which from Col. L.N. Sykes) 26.23 East Poultney. Cong. Ch. 3.50
Fayetteville. Cong. Ch. (1.75 of which for McIntosh, Ga.) 6.52 Holland. Y.P. Soc., 2 Bdls.
of C., for McIntosh, Ga. Ludlow. Cong. Ch. 10.38 Lyndon Center. Alice L. Ray 5.00 Morgan. Lucy
Little 0.50 Newbury. First Cong. Ch. and Soc. 55.25 Newport. Cong. Ch. and Soc. $10.00 Peacham.
Cong. Ch. and Soc., 46.74; Young People's Miss'y Soc., 3.26; Rev. H.M. Andrews, in memory of
Mrs. R.C. Andrews, 5; Bessie Varnum, 2 57.00 Pittsford. Sab. Sch. of Cong. Ch., for McIntosh,
Ga. 25.00 Rupert. Class in Sab. Sch., M.E. Ch., Large Pkg. Cards; Class in Sab. Sch., 5, for
Saint Augustine, Fla. 5.00 Rutland. Y.L.M. League, for Indian Sch'p 70.00 Tyson. Cong. Ch.
0.50 ---- "A Friend," for Indian M. 50.00

   MASSACHUSETTS, $6,576.89.

