

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPH ON A DYER.

  This Dyer with a dire liver tried
  To earn a living dyeing, and he died.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CONFESSIONS OF A DUFFER.

NO. VIII.--THE DUFFER AS A HOST.

Of course I don't try to give dinners at home. The difficulties and anxieties are too enormous.
First there is inviting the people. I like to have none but very clever men and very pretty
women, but nobody's acquaintance is limited to those rare beings, and, if I did invite them,
they would all have previous engagements: I do not blame them. But suppose that two or three
of the wits and beauties accept, that is worse than ever, because the rest are a Q.C. (who
talks about his cases) and his wife, who talks about her children. An old school-fellow, who
has no conversation that does not begin, "I say, do you remember old JACK WILLIAMS." This does
not entertain the beauty, who sits next him.

A Dowager Duchess, she knows none of the other people and wonders audibly (to me) who they
are. A clever young man, whose language is the language of the future, and whose humour is
of a date to which I humbly hope my own days may not be prolonged. A Psychical Researcher,
with a note-book; he gets at the Duchess at once, and cross-examines her about a visionary
Piper who plays audible pibrochs through Castle Blawearie, her ancestral home. Does she think
the pibroch could be taken down in a phonograph. Could the Piper be snapped in a kodak? The
Duchess does not know what a phonograph is; never heard of a kodak. She does not like the note-book
any more than Mr. Pickwick's cabman liked it. She is afraid of getting into print. Then there
is the Warden of St. Jude's, a great scholar; he pricks up his ears, not the keenest, at the
word kodak, and begins to talk about a newly-discovered Codex of PODONIAN the Elder. Nobody
knows what a Codex is. There is a School-board Lady, but, alas, she is next the Warden of St.
Jude's, not next the enthusiastic Clergyman, who proses about a Club for Milliners. There is
GRIGSBY, who develops an undesirable interest in the Milliners' Club. Have they a Strangers'
Room? Do they give suppers? Are they Friendly Girls? Everyone thinks GRIGSBY flippant and coarse;
I wish I had not asked him to come. There is a Positivist, who sneers at the Clergyman; there
are a Squire and his wife from Rutlandshire: she is next the Radical Candidate for the Isle
of Dogs. They do not seem to get on well together. GRIGSBY and the humorist of the future are
chaffing each other across the table: nobody understands them; I don't know whether they are
quarrelling or not. Miss JONES, the authoress of Melancholy Moods (in a Greek dress, with a
pince-nez: a woman should not combine these attributes) is next the Squire: he has never heard
of any of her friends the Minor Poets: she takes no interest in Hay, nor in Tithes. I see the
Guardsman and the Beauty looking at each other across the flowers and things: the language
of their eyes is not difficult, nor pleasant, to read. Why is the champagne so hot, and why
are the ices so salt and hard? I know something is the matter with the claret: something is
always the matter with the claret. It has been iced, and the champagne has been standing for
days in an equable temperature of 65°.

When they want to go away, it is a wet night, and those who have come in cabs cannot get cabs
to go back in. The Duchess's coachman lost his way, coming here, she was half-an-hour late:
she is anxious about his finding his way home. GRIGSBY has got at the Psychical-Researcher,
and I hear him telling stories, as personal experiences, which I know are not true. Psychical-Researchers
have no sense of humour. "S.P.R.," why not "S.P.Q.R.?" I hear GRIGSBY asking, and suggesting
"Society for Propagating Rubbish." It is very rude of him, and not at all funny.

However, they do go away at last, that advantage a dinner at home has over a dinner at the
Club, there they often seem as if they would never go away at all.

On the other hand, the wine is all right at the Club, I believe, for I know nothing about wine
myself. Some men talk of nothing else, and seem to know the vintages without looking at the
names on the bottles.

The worst of giving a dinner at the Club is, that I never know how many men I have asked, nor
even who they are. It is enough if I remember the date. It might be a good thing to write these
matters down in a Diary, or on a big sheet of paper, pinned up in one's room. I know I have
written to ask some Americans whom I have not seen: they brought letters of introduction. I
forget their names--there is a Professor who has written a novel, there is a General, I think,
and a Mad Doctor.

My best plan will be to stand about in the drawing-room, and try to select them as they come
in. Here is WILKINSON, who was at St. Jude's with me: I shake hands with him warmly. He looks
blank. It is not WILKINSON, after all; it is a stranger, he is dining with somebody else. Some
other men have come in while I am apologising. One of them comes up and says, "Mr. McDUFFER!"
He must be an American. Which? He tells me: he is the Mad Doctor. He introduces his countrymen;
they all say "Mr. McDUFFER!" How am I to remember which is the General and which is the Professor?
Other people drop in. Here is CRIMPTON. He is a Reviewer. Clever fellow, CRIMPTON. Here is
old BEILBY--he is hot from the University Match. He begins to tell me all about it. JONES was
awfully well set, but that muff SMITH ran him out. BEILBY does not believe it was out. Odd
the spite umpires always have at our side. Feel that I must tear myself from BEILBY, the only
man whose conversation really interests me. Here is an English writer on military subjects.
I introduce him to the American General. Find he is the Professor, after all. We get down-stairs
somehow. BEILBY is opposite me. CRIMPTON is next the Professor. The Military Writer is next
the General. Things do not appear to go very smoothly. It seems that the Military one has said
something about General BEAUREGARD which he should not have said. The General is getting red.
I hate it, when men begin to talk about the American War. Any other war they are welcome to:
the Danish War, the war of 1866, the war of 1870, the glorious affair of Majuba. But Americans
are touchy about their war, not easy to please them whatever you say. Much best to say nothing.
CRIMPTON is laughing at American novels. He does not know that the Professor is an American
novelist. What am I to do? I try to kick him under the table. I kick the Mad Doctor, and apologise.
Was feeling about for a footstool. BEILBY is trying to talk about Base Ball to the General,
who is still red. Nothing is more disagreeable than these international discussions at dinner.

Now, a clever host would know how to get out of this; he would start some other subject. I
can think of no other subject. Happy thought: gradually glide into American cookery, clams,
canvas-backed ducks, what is that dish with a queer name--Jumbo? I don't feel as if it were
Jumbo. Squambo? Terapin soup? It sounds rather like the Hebrew for a talisman, or an angel
of some sort. However, they are talking about cookery now, and wines. Is there not an American
wine called Catawampus? The Mad Doctor has his eye on me; he seems interested. I thought I
heard him murmur Aspasia, or Aphasia, or something like that. It is not Catawampus--it is Catawba.
I feel that I patauge--flounder, I mean. I am getting quite nervous; feel like a man in a powder-magazine,
with lighted cigarettes everywhere. If one can withdraw them to the smoking-room, they will
settle down somehow. They do. The Military Critic gets into a corner with BEILBY. The Americans
and I consort together. Most agreeable fellows; have been everywhere, and seen everything.
CRIMPTON, luckily, is reading one of his own reviews in the evening paper. I glance at it;
it is a review of the Professor's novel. Not a kind review--rather insulting than otherwise.
He hates BEILBY, and he does not know the Military Critic. If he joins us, there will be more
international discussion. I get them on to the balcony, and pretend to go to ring the bell
for coffee. I whisper to CRIMPTON. He is quite taken aback. "Awfully sorry; never dreamed the
Professor was not English." He wants to tell the Professor that, thinks he will be pleased.
He apologises to me; it is dreadfully disagreeable to be apologised to by a guest. "All my
fault," I say; and, really, so it is. CRIMPTON remembers an evening engagement, and goes off
à l'Anglaise.

The Americans go off; say they have enjoyed themselves. I feel inclined to apologise for CRIMPTON.
On second thoughts, I don't. They do not look like men who write about their adventures in
their native newspapers. Ladies do that. A weight is off my mind. The Military Writer goes
home. He asks, "Who was that old man who fancied himself so about SHERMAN's March?" "That was
General HOME, who held a command under SHERMAN." The Military Writer whistles; wishes I had
told him that before dinner. I wish I had, but I got so flurried and confused. It is midnight;
I am tired to death. Yes, BEILBY will have something to drink, and another cigar--a very large
one. He begins to talk about the University Match, about all University Matches, about old
scores, and old catches, from MITCHELL's year to the present day.

It is three o'clock before I get home; the Americans may have enjoyed themselves, I have not.
I dream about the Mad Doctor; perhaps he will put me into his next book on Incipient Insanity.
Serve me right.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE YOUNG GIRL'S COMPANION.

(BY MRS. PAYLEY.)

I.--THE YOUNG GIRL'S DIARY.

My very dear young girls, those Arts and accomplishments which form part of the average education
will be taught you by your Governess, and in some cases, if your parents think it judicious,
by a male Professor. I do not propose in these papers to deal with such subjects. But there
are certain points in the life of the young girl, about which the handbooks have but little
to say, which your teachers do not include in their course of tuition. Some of these points
are particularly intimate and sentimental. It is here that I would wish to act as your adviser,
and, if I may, as your confidential friend. I shall always be glad, while these papers are
being published, to receive and answer any letters from young girls on questions of sentiment
and propriety. If we had no sentiment, life would not stand thinking about; if we had no propriety,
life would not stand talking about. Of the two, propriety is, perhaps, for the woman the more
important, but I shall be glad to answer questions on both. And now let me say a few words
on the subject of the Young Girl's Diary.

You must most certainly keep a Diary.

When I was a young girl of twenty-eight--it is not so very long ago--I had my Diary bound in
pale blue watered silk; it had three locks and a little silver key which I wore on a riband
round my neck. I never took it off except to--I mean for the purposes of the toilette. There
was a pocket at the end of the book, which would hold a faded flower or any little souvenir.
I always wrote it in solitude and by night. Secresy has its ritual, and it is infinitely sweet
and consoling. If you should ever choose to read any passage from your Diary to the dearest
of your girl-friends, the confidence becomes in consequence so much more confidential; for
she will know that you are reading to her what was never intended for any human eye to see,
and will enjoy it more. If you have the least appreciation of what sentiment really means,
if you feel that you are misunderstood, or if you suffer from the most sacred of all emotions,
you will most certainly keep a Diary.

The entries in the Diary need not be of any great length. I once had a dear girl-friend who,
during the happy season of her first love, became in the pages of her Diary almost entirely
interjectional. I think this was from natural delicacy. I was recently stopping at her house,
and owing to circumstances over which she had no control, I am able to reproduce here the entries
which she made in the few days which culminated in her engagement.

"September 6.--Why?"

You observe that she is puzzled to account for her own emotions, and yet hesitates to give
the inevitable solution. The intense reticence of this entry seems to me peculiarly beautiful.

"September 7.--I hate MARY BINDLER."

I can remember the circumstances very well, and I am inclined to think that she had some reason
to be jealous of MARY BINDLER. MARY was not at all a nice girl.

"September 8.--Joy, joy, joy!"

I think I can explain this entry. MARY BINDLER had been called away hurriedly. Somebody was
dead, or something of that sort. My friend's expression of relief seems to me very pretty and
natural.

"September 9.--Ah!"

"September 10.--Oh!"

In that little word "Ah!" there is the whole history of a pic-nic and a carriage accident.
It was there that she first guessed his feelings towards her. I am sorry to say that I have
not been able to obtain any adequate explanation of the "Oh!" But I know they went out after
dinner to see if it was possible to play tennis by moonlight. I conclude that it was not, for
the next entry, which consists simply of a note of exclamation, is really a record of her engagement.

Of course I need not point out the impropriety of mixing in the pages of your Diary the record
of the most sacred emotions, and notes of things more commonplace. I knew a girl who invariably
did this. She always commenced with an account of any money that she might have spent during
the day. I have managed, with considerable difficulty, to make a copy of one of these entries,
and I give it as a warning:--

"Chocolate, one-and-six. ALGERNON has written to me, asking me to see him again for the last
time. I have written back that my decision is unalterable. It breaks my heart to have to be
so cruel--but fate wills it, and it's no good fighting against Mamma. Sent my grey to be cleaned--but
it won't look anything when it's done."

In another entry I found the following:--

"A dear long letter from EGBERT. How perfect his sympathy is! Not feeling very well to-day--will
always refuse vol-au-vent in future."

I need hardly say that a girl who would chronicle the state of her digestion and the sympathy
of her lover in one paragraph could not possibly have any soul.

The perfect Diary is something of a paradox. It should be composed chiefly of what is unpublishable--of
one's secrets and sentiments--but it should always be written as if with a view to publication.
In your Diary you can say things about yourself which it would be conceited to say openly,
and you can say things about your friends which it would be unkind to say openly; you can make
your own pose seem more real to yourself. So, my dear young girls, take my advice, and commence
Diaries. And remember I shall be very glad to answer any questions on the subject.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOKIM'S LATEST LITTLE JOKE.

(BY A MANY TIMES DISAPPOINTED INCOME-TAX PAYER.)

