In the course of this winter, after the dispersion of the Peloponnesian fleet, the Athenians
in Naupactus, under Phormio, coasted along to Astacus and disembarked, and marched into the
interior of Acarnania with four hundred Athenian heavy infantry and four hundred Messenians.
After expelling some suspected persons from Stratus, Coronta, and other places, and restoring
Cynes, son of Theolytus, to Coronta, they returned to their ships, deciding that it was impossible
in the winter season to march against Oeniadae, a place which, unlike the rest of Acarnania,
had been always hostile to them; for the river Achelous flowing from Mount Pindus through Dolopia
and the country of the Agraeans and Amphilochians and the plain of Acarnania, past the town
of Stratus in the upper part of its course, forms lakes where it falls into the sea round Oeniadae,
and thus makes it impracticable for an army in winter by reason of the water. Opposite to Oeniadae
lie most of the islands called Echinades, so close to the mouths of the Achelous that that
powerful stream is constantly forming deposits against them, and has already joined some of
the islands to the continent, and seems likely in no long while to do the same with the rest.
For the current is strong, deep, and turbid, and the islands are so thick together that they
serve to imprison the alluvial deposit and prevent its dispersing, lying, as they do, not in
one line, but irregularly, so as to leave no direct passage for the water into the open sea.
The islands in question are uninhabited and of no great size. There is also a story that Alcmaeon,
son of Amphiraus, during his wanderings after the murder of his mother was bidden by Apollo
to inhabit this spot, through an oracle which intimated that he would have no release from
his terrors until he should find a country to dwell in which had not been seen by the sun,
or existed as land at the time he slew his mother; all else being to him polluted ground. Perplexed
at this, the story goes on to say, he at last observed this deposit of the Achelous, and considered
that a place sufficient to support life upon, might have been thrown up during the long interval
that had elapsed since the death of his mother and the beginning of his wanderings. Settling,
therefore, in the district round Oeniadae, he founded a dominion, and left the country its
name from his son Acarnan. Such is the story we have received concerning Alcmaeon.

The Athenians and Phormio putting back from Acarnania and arriving at Naupactus, sailed home
to Athens in the spring, taking with them the ships that they had captured, and such of the
prisoners made in the late actions as were freemen; who were exchanged, man for man. And so
ended this winter, and the third year of this war, of which Thucydides was the historian. After
staying the time for which they had taken provisions, the invaders retired and dispersed to
their several cities.

Immediately after the invasion of the Peloponnesians all Lesbos, except Methymna, revolted
from the Athenians. The Lesbians had wished to revolt even before the war, but the Lacedaemonians
would not receive them; and yet now when they did revolt, they were compelled to do so sooner
than they had intended. While they were waiting until the moles for their harbours and the
ships and walls that they had in building should be finished, and for the arrival of archers
and corn and other things that they were engaged in fetching from the Pontus, the Tenedians,
with whom they were at enmity, and the Methymnians, and some factious persons in Mitylene itself,
who were proxeni of Athens, informed the Athenians that the Mitylenians were forcibly uniting
the island under their sovereignty, and that the preparations about which they were so active,
were all concerted with the Boeotians their kindred and the Lacedaemonians with a view to a
revolt, and that, unless they were immediately prevented, Athens would lose Lesbos.

However, the Athenians, distressed by the plague, and by the war that had recently broken out
and was now raging, thought it a serious matter to add Lesbos with its fleet and untouched
resources to the list of their enemies; and at first would not believe the charge, giving too
much weight to their wish that it might not be true. But when an embassy which they sent had
failed to persuade the Mitylenians to give up the union and preparations complained of, they
became alarmed, and resolved to strike the first blow. They accordingly suddenly sent off forty
ships that had been got ready to sail round Peloponnese, under the command of Cleippides, son
of Deinias, and two others; word having been brought them of a festival in honour of the Malean
Apollo outside the town, which is kept by the whole people of Mitylene, and at which, if haste
were made, they might hope to take them by surprise. If this plan succeeded, well and good;
if not, they were to order the Mitylenians to deliver up their ships and to pull down their
walls, and if they did not obey, to declare war. The ships accordingly set out; the ten galleys,
forming the contingent of the Mitylenians present with the fleet according to the terms of
the alliance, being detained by the Athenians, and their crews placed in custody. However,
the Mitylenians were informed of the expedition by a man who crossed from Athens to Euboea,
and going overland to Geraestus, sailed from thence by a merchantman which he found on the
point of putting to sea, and so arrived at Mitylene the third day after leaving Athens. The
Mitylenians accordingly refrained from going out to the temple at Malea, and moreover barricaded
and kept guard round the half-finished parts of their walls and harbours.

When the Athenians sailed in not long after and saw how things stood, the generals delivered
their orders, and upon the Mitylenians refusing to obey, commenced hostilities. The Mitylenians,
thus compelled to go to war without notice and unprepared, at first sailed out with their fleet
and made some show of fighting, a little in front of the harbour; but being driven back by
the Athenian ships, immediately offered to treat with the commanders, wishing, if possible,
to get the ships away for the present upon any tolerable terms. The Athenian commanders accepted
their offers, being themselves fearful that they might not be able to cope with the whole of
Lesbos; and an armistice having been concluded, the Mitylenians sent to Athens one of the informers,
already repentant of his conduct, and others with him, to try to persuade the Athenians of
the innocence of their intentions and to get the fleet recalled. In the meantime, having no
great hope of a favourable answer from Athens, they also sent off a galley with envoys to Lacedaemon,
unobserved by the Athenian fleet which was anchored at Malea to the north of the town.

While these envoys, reaching Lacedaemon after a difficult journey across the open sea, were
negotiating for succours being sent them, the ambassadors from Athens returned without having
effected anything; and hostilities were at once begun by the Mitylenians and the rest of Lesbos,
with the exception of the Methymnians, who came to the aid of the Athenians with the Imbrians
and Lemnians and some few of the other allies. The Mitylenians made a sortie with all their
forces against the Athenian camp; and a battle ensued, in which they gained some slight advantage,
but retired notwithstanding, not feeling sufficient confidence in themselves to spend the night
upon the field. After this they kept quiet, wishing to wait for the chance of reinforcements
arriving from Peloponnese before making a second venture, being encouraged by the arrival of
Meleas, a Laconian, and Hermaeondas, a Theban, who had been sent off before the insurrection
but had been unable to reach Lesbos before the Athenian expedition, and who now stole in in
a galley after the battle, and advised them to send another galley and envoys back with them,
which the Mitylenians accordingly did.

Meanwhile the Athenians, greatly encouraged by the inaction of the Mitylenians, summoned allies
to their aid, who came in all the quicker from seeing so little vigour displayed by the Lesbians,
and bringing round their ships to a new station to the south of the town, fortified two camps,
one on each side of the city, and instituted a blockade of both the harbours. The sea was thus
closed against the Mitylenians, who, however, commanded the whole country, with the rest of
the Lesbians who had now joined them; the Athenians only holding a limited area round their
camps, and using Malea more as the station for their ships and their market.

While the war went on in this way at Mitylene, the Athenians, about the same time in this summer,
also sent thirty ships to Peloponnese under Asopius, son of Phormio; the Acarnanians insisting
that the commander sent should be some son or relative of Phormio. As the ships coasted along
shore they ravaged the seaboard of Laconia; after which Asopius sent most of the fleet home,
and himself went on with twelve vessels to Naupactus, and afterwards raising the whole Acarnanian
population made an expedition against Oeniadae, the fleet sailing along the Achelous, while
the army laid waste the country. The inhabitants, however, showing no signs of submitting,
he dismissed the land forces and himself sailed to Leucas, and making a descent upon Nericus
was cut off during his retreat, and most of his troops with him, by the people in those parts
aided by some coastguards; after which the Athenians sailed away, recovering their dead from
the Leucadians under truce.

Meanwhile the envoys of the Mitylenians sent out in the first ship were told by the Lacedaemonians
to come to Olympia, in order that the rest of the allies might hear them and decide upon their
matter, and so they journeyed thither. It was the Olympiad in which the Rhodian Dorieus gained
his second victory, and the envoys having been introduced to make their speech after the festival,
spoke as follows:

"Lacedaemonians and allies, the rule established among the Hellenes is not unknown to us. Those
who revolt in war and forsake their former confederacy are favourably regarded by those who
receive them, in so far as they are of use to them, but otherwise are thought less well of,
through being considered traitors to their former friends. Nor is this an unfair way of judging,
where the rebels and the power from whom they secede are at one in policy and sympathy, and
a match for each other in resources and power, and where no reasonable ground exists for the
rebellion. But with us and the Athenians this was not the case; and no one need think the worse
of us for revolting from them in danger, after having been honoured by them in time of peace.

"Justice and honesty will be the first topics of our speech, especially as we are asking for
alliance; because we know that there can never be any solid friendship between individuals,
or union between communities that is worth the name, unless the parties be persuaded of each
other's honesty, and be generally congenial the one to the other; since from difference in
feeling springs also difference in conduct. Between ourselves and the Athenians alliance began,
when you withdrew from the Median War and they remained to finish the business. But we did
not become allies of the Athenians for the subjugation of the Hellenes, but allies of the Hellenes
for their liberation from the Mede; and as long as the Athenians led us fairly we followed
them loyally; but when we saw them relax their hostility to the Mede, to try to compass the
subjection of the allies, then our apprehensions began. Unable, however, to unite and defend
themselves, on account of the number of confederates that had votes, all the allies were enslaved,
except ourselves and the Chians, who continued to send our contingents as independent and nominally
free. Trust in Athens as a leader, however, we could no longer feel, judging by the examples
already given; it being unlikely that she would reduce our fellow confederates, and not do
the same by us who were left, if ever she had the power.

"Had we all been still independent, we could have had more faith in their not attempting any
change; but the greater number being their subjects, while they were treating us as equals,
they would naturally chafe under this solitary instance of independence as contrasted with
the submission of the majority; particularly as they daily grew more powerful, and we more
destitute. Now the only sure basis of an alliance is for each party to be equally afraid of
the other; he who would like to encroach is then deterred by the reflection that he will not
have odds in his favour. Again, if we were left independent, it was only because they thought
they saw their way to empire more clearly by specious language and by the paths of policy than
by those of force. Not only were we useful as evidence that powers who had votes, like themselves,
would not, surely, join them in their expeditions, against their will, without the party attacked
being in the wrong; but the same system also enabled them to lead the stronger states against
the weaker first, and so to leave the former to the last, stripped of their natural allies,
and less capable of resistance. But if they had begun with us, while all the states still had
their resources under their own control, and there was a centre to rally round, the work of
subjugation would have been found less easy. Besides this, our navy gave them some apprehension:
it was always possible that it might unite with you or with some other power, and become dangerous
to Athens. The court which we paid to their commons and its leaders for the time being also
helped us to maintain our independence. However, we did not expect to be able to do so much
longer, if this war had not broken out, from the examples that we had had of their conduct
to the rest.

"How then could we put our trust in such friendship or freedom as we had here? We accepted
each other against our inclination; fear made them court us in war, and us them in peace; sympathy,
the ordinary basis of confidence, had its place supplied by terror, fear having more share
than friendship in detaining us in the alliance; and the first party that should be encouraged
by the hope of impunity was certain to break faith with the other. So that to condemn us for
being the first to break off, because they delay the blow that we dread, instead of ourselves
delaying to know for certain whether it will be dealt or not, is to take a false view of the
case. For if we were equally able with them to meet their plots and imitate their delay, we
should be their equals and should be under no necessity of being their subjects; but the liberty
of offence being always theirs, that of defence ought clearly to be ours.

"Such, Lacedaemonians and allies, are the grounds and the reasons of our revolt; clear enough
to convince our hearers of the fairness of our conduct, and sufficient to alarm ourselves,
and to make us turn to some means of safety. This we wished to do long ago, when we sent to
you on the subject while the peace yet lasted, but were balked by your refusing to receive
us; and now, upon the Boeotians inviting us, we at once responded to the call, and decided
upon a twofold revolt, from the Hellenes and from the Athenians, not to aid the latter in harming
the former, but to join in their liberation, and not to allow the Athenians in the end to destroy
us, but to act in time against them. Our revolt, however, has taken place prematurely and without
preparation--a fact which makes it all the more incumbent on you to receive us into alliance
and to send us speedy relief, in order to show that you support your friends, and at the same
time do harm to your enemies. You have an opportunity such as you never had before. Disease
and expenditure have wasted the Athenians: their ships are either cruising round your coasts,
or engaged in blockading us; and it is not probable that they will have any to spare, if you
invade them a second time this summer by sea and land; but they will either offer no resistance
to your vessels, or withdraw from both our shores. Nor must it be thought that this is a case
of putting yourselves into danger for a country which is not yours. Lesbos may appear far off,
but when help is wanted she will be found near enough. It is not in Attica that the war will
be decided, as some imagine, but in the countries by which Attica is supported; and the Athenian
revenue is drawn from the allies, and will become still larger if they reduce us; as not only
will no other state revolt, but our resources will be added to theirs, and we shall be treated
worse than those that were enslaved before. But if you will frankly support us, you will add
to your side a state that has a large navy, which is your great want; you will smooth the way
to the overthrow of the Athenians by depriving them of their allies, who will be greatly encouraged
to come over; and you will free yourselves from the imputation made against you, of not supporting
insurrection. In short, only show yourselves as liberators, and you may count upon having the
advantage in the war.

"Respect, therefore, the hopes placed in you by the Hellenes, and that Olympian Zeus, in whose
temple we stand as very suppliants; become the allies and defenders of the Mitylenians, and
do not sacrifice us, who put our lives upon the hazard, in a cause in which general good will
result to all from our success, and still more general harm if we fail through your refusing
to help us; but be the men that the Hellenes think you, and our fears desire."

Such were the words of the Mitylenians. After hearing them out, the Lacedaemonians and confederates
granted what they urged, and took the Lesbians into alliance, and deciding in favour of the
invasion of Attica, told the allies present to march as quickly as possible to the Isthmus
with two-thirds of their forces; and arriving there first themselves, got ready hauling machines
to carry their ships across from Corinth to the sea on the side of Athens, in order to make
their attack by sea and land at once. However, the zeal which they displayed was not imitated
by the rest of the confederates, who came in but slowly, being engaged in harvesting their
corn and sick of making expeditions.

