Already the pile of heaped-up fagots reached above the low roof of his hut; but Carl Scheffler
still continued lopping off branches, and binding fresh bundles together, almost unconscious
that the sun had set, and that the labours of the day being over, the neighbouring peasants
were hastening to the skittle-ground to pass away an hour in sport. The wood-cutter's hut was
perched upon an eminence a little out of the public path; but he heard the merry songs of his
comrades as they proceeded gaily to the place of rendezvous, at the Golden Stag in the village
below. Many of his intimate acquaintance paused as they approached the corner of the road nearest
to his hut, and the wild wood rang with their loud halloes; but the call, which in other times
had been echoed by the woodman's glad voice, was now unanswered; he busied himself with his
work; his brow darkened as the joyous sounds came over his ear; he threw aside his hatchet,
resumed, it again, and again casting it from him, exclaimed, "Why, let them go, I will not
carry this chafed and wounded spirit to their revels; my hand is not steady enough for a bowling-match;
and since Linda will doubtless choose a richer partner, I have no heart for the dance."

It was easy to perceive that Carl Scheffler was smarting under a recent disappointment: he
had borne up bravely against the misfortunes which, from a state of comparative affluence,
had reduced him to depend upon his own arm for subsistence, fondly trusting that ere long his
prospects would amend; and that, at the return of the Count of Holberg to his ancestorial dominions,
he should obtain a forester's place, and be enabled to claim the hand of Linda Von Kleist,
to whom, in happier times, he had been betrothed. But these dreams had vanished; the count's
bailiff having seen Linda, the flower of the hamlet, became his rival, and consequently his
enemy: he had bestowed the office promised to Carl upon another; and Linda's father ungratefully
withdrawing the consent given when the lover's affairs were in a more flourishing condition,
had forbidden him the house. Buoyed up with the hope that Linda would remain faithful, and
by her unabated attachment console him under the pressure of his calamities, Carl did not at
first give way to despair; but Linda was too obedient, or perchance too indifferent, to disobey
her father's commands. He sought her at the accustomed spot--she came not, sent not: he hovered
round her residence, and if chance favoured him with a glimpse of his beloved, it was only
to add to his misery, for she withdrew hastily from his sight. A rumour of the intended marriage
of his perjured mistress reached his ears, and, struck to the soul, he endeavoured, by manual
labour, to exhaust his strength and banish the recollection of his misery. He toiled all day
in feverish desperation; and now that there was no more to be done, sat down to ponder over
his altered prospects. The bailiff possessed the ear of his master, and it was useless to hope
that the count would repair the injustice committed by so trusted a servant. The situation
which above all others he had coveted, which would have given him the free range of the forest,
the jovial hunter's life which suited his daring spirit, delighting in the perils of the chase,
and, above all, a home for Linda, was lost, and for ever; henceforward he must relinquish all
expectation of regaining the station which the misfortunes that had brought his parents to
the grave had deprived him of, and be content to earn a sordid meal by bending his back to
burthens befitting the brute creation alone; to hew wood, and to bear it to the neighbouring
towns; to delve the ground at the bidding of a master, and to perform the offices of a menial
hireling. "At least not here," cried the wretched young man, "not in the face of all my former
friends; there is a refuge left where I may hide my sorrows and my wrongs. Fair earth, and
thou fair sky, I gaze upon you for the last time; buried from the face of day in the centre
of the deepest mine, I'll spend the remnant of my life unpitied and unknown." Determined to
execute this resolution on the instant, Carl hastily collected such parts of his slender property
as were portable; and having completed his arrangements, prepared to cross the Brocken, and
shaped his course towards the Rammelsburg. The last rich gleam of crimson had faded from the
sky; but there was light enough in the summer night to guide him on his way. A few bright and
beautiful stars gemmed the wide concave of heaven; the air was soft and balmy, scarcely agitating
the leaves of the forest trees; the fragrance-weeping limes gave out their richest scent, and
the gentle gush of fountains, and the tricklings of the mountain springs, came in music on
the ear; and had the traveller been more at ease, the calm and tranquil scene must have diffused
its soothing influence over his heart. Carl, disregarding every thing save his own melancholy
destiny, strode along almost choked by bitter thought, and so little heedful of the road, that
he soon became involved in thickets whose paths were unknown to him; he looked up to the heavens,
and shaping his course by one of the stars, was somewhat surprised to find himself still involved
in the impenetrable mazes of the wood. Compelled to give more attention than heretofore to
his route, he once or twice thought that he distinguished a human figure moving through the
darkness of the forest. At first, not disposed to fall in with a companion, he remained silent,
lest the person, whoever he might be, should choose to enter into conversation with him; then
not quite certain whether he was right in his conjecture--for upon casting a second glance
upon the object which attracted him, he more than once discovered it to be some stunted trunk
or fantastic tree--he became anxious to ascertain whether he was in reality, alone, or if some
other midnight wanderer trod the waste, and he looked narrowly around; all was still, silent,
and solitary; and fancying that he had been deceived by the flitting shadows of the night,
he was again relapsing into his former reverie, when he became aware of the presence of a man
dressed in the garb of a forester, and having his cap wreathed with a garland of green leaves,
who stood close at his side. Carl's tongue moved to utter a salutation, but the words stuck
in his throat, an indescribable sensation of horror thrilled through his frame; tales of the
demons of the Hartz rushed upon his memory--but he recovered instantly from the sudden shock.
The desperate state of his fortune gave him courage, and, looking up, he was surprised at the
consternation which the stranger had occasioned: he was a person of ordinary appearance, who,
accosting him frankly, exclaimed, "Ho, comrade, thou art, I see, bent on the same errand as
myself; but wherefore dost thou seek the treasures of the Nibelungen without the protecting
wreath?"--"The treasures of the Nibelungen?" returned Carl; "I have indeed heard of such a
thing, and that it was hidden in the bosom of the Hartz by a princess of the olden time; but
I never was mad enough to think of so wild a chase as a search after riches, which has baffled
the wisest of our ancestors, must surely prove."--"Belike then," replied the forester, "thou
art well to do in the world, and therefore needest not to replenish thy wallets with gold,--travelling
perchance to take possession of some rich inheritance."--"No, by St. Roelas," cried the woodcutter,
"thou hast guessed wide of the mark. I am going to hide my poverty in the mine of Rammelsburg."--"The
mine of Rammelsburg!" echoed the stranger, and laughed scornfully, so that the deep woods rang
with the sound; and Carl feeling his old sensations return as the fiendish merriment resounded
through the wilderness, again gazed stedfastly in his companion's face, but he read nothing
there to justify his suspicions: the fiery eye lost its lustre; the lip its curl; and, gazing
benignantly upon the forlorn wood-cutter, he continued his speech, saying, "Then prithee take
the advice of one who knows these forests, and all that they contain. Here are materials in
abundance for our garland; advance forward, and fear not the issue;"--and, gathering leaves
from the boughs of trees of a species unknown to his new acquaintance, he twined them into
a wreath, and placed the sylvan diadem on Carl's head. The instant that he felt the light pressure
on his temples, all his fears vanished; and he followed his guide, conversing pleasantly through
wide avenues and over broad glades of fresh turf, which seemed to be laid out like a royal
chase, till they came to a wall of rock resembling the Hahnen Klippers, and entering through
an arch, a grey moss-covered tower arose in the distance. The ponderous doors were wide open;
and Carl advancing, found himself in a large hall well lighted, and showing abundance of treasure
scattered abroad in all directions. He was conscious that he had lost his companion, but he
seemed no longer to require his instruction; and casting down his own worthless burthen, he
laded himself with the riches that courted his touch. The adventurer was soon supplied with
a sufficient quantity of gold and jewels to satisfy his most unbounded wishes; and turning
from the spot with a light heart, he sped merrily along. The country round about seemed strange
to him; but on repassing the rocky ledge, a brisk wind suddenly springing up blew off his cap.
The morning air was cold, and Carl, hastening to regain his head-gear, discovered that the
wreath had disappeared; and, as if awakening from a dream, he found himself surrounded by familiar
objects; he felt, however, the weight of the load upon his back, and though panting with the
fatigue it occasioned, made the best of his way home. On approaching the hut, a low murmur
struck on his ear. He paused; listened attentively; and distinguishing a female voice, he rushed
forward, and in the next moment clasped Linda in his arms. She had fled from the persecutions
of the bailiff to seek shelter in Carl's straw-roofed hut; and the now happy lovers, as they
surveyed the treasures which had been snatched from the Nibelungen, agreed that they owed their
good fortune to Riebezhahl the Wood King, who sometimes taking pity upon the frail and feeble
denizens of earth, pointed out to their wondering eyes the inexhaustible riches of which he
was the acknowledged guardian.

London Weekly Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

DRAFTS ON LA FITTE.

COOKE.

Only upon one occasion did Cooke deviate from his resolution of not apologizing to a provincial
assembly, and that was at Liverpool. A previous breach of decorum was visited one night by
the fury of an offended audience; confusion was at its height; the people were the actors,
and Cooke the audience: yet the sturdy tragedian remained callous to the bursts of indignation
which were heard around him, until destruction became the order of the day; lamps lighted on
the stage; benches betokened mobility; pedal applications were made forté to the piano; basely
violated was the repository of the base viol; and the property of poor Knight the manager gave
every sign of that being its last appearance. What popular rage had failed to produce, consideration
for the fortunes of his friend effected. At his entreaties, the Caledonian was induced to advance
to the front of the stage (never was there a more moving scene than that before it); silence
was obtained, and he condescended to express his sorrow for the state in which some nights
previously he had presented himself: adding, "that he never before felt so keenly the degradation
of his situation." Equivocal as was the mode of extenuation, the audience allied to Mersey
accorded the mercy it possessed, and was or appeared to be, satisfied; but not so the actor,
and he as fully as instantly avenged what he deemed his misplaced submission. As he concluded
his address, he turned to the gratified but yet trembling manager, and (in allusion to the
large share in the slave-trade then imputed to Liverpool) with that peculiarity of undertone
he possessed, which could be distinctly heard throughout the largest theatre although pronounced
as a whisper, exclaimed, "There's not a stone in the walls of Liverpool which has not been
cemented by the bluid of Africans." Then, casting one of his Shylock glances of hatred and
contempt on the mute and astounded audience, majestically left the stage.

On the first night of his performance at the Boston theatre, Richard was the part he had adopted;
and so strongly had he fortified himself for the kingly task, that he deemed himself the very
monarch he was destined to enact. The theatre was crowded in every part: expectation was on
tiptoe: anticipation as to his person, voice, and manner, was announced by the sibilating "I
guess" heard around, and "pretty considerable" agitation prevailed. The orchestra had begun
and ceased, unheeded or unheard; nor could one of Sir Thomas Lethbridge's best cut and dried
have produced less effect amongst the "irreclaimables." The curtain rose, and amidst thundering
plaudits the welcome stranger advanced, in angles, to the front of the stage, and, as Sir Pertinax
has it, "booed and booed and booed;" but greeting could not endure for ever: well justified
curiosity assumed its station, and at length silence, almost breathless silence, reigned around,
such as attended Irving in his Zoar, or Canning when he lately produced his budget. The hospitable
clamour was over; but instead of "Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer
by this sun of York" being given, Cooke, in a respectful but decided tone, requested that "God
save the King" might be played by the orchestra prior to the commencement of the play. The
proposal at first but excited mockery and laughter, which, however, gave way to far different
feelings, on Cooke firmly and composedly declaring, that, until his request was complied with,
he was determined not to proceed; and, should it be absolutely refused, he was resolved to
retire. The fury of the Bostonians was at its height: menace, accompanied by every vituperative
epithet rage could suggest, was lavished on the actor; but he kept his station, calm and secure
as his own native island set in the stormy seas, until anger gradually subsided through very
weariness; and every effort having been ineffectually used to wean "the tyrant" from his purpose,
the political antipathies of the audience began to yield to their theatrical taste; and, after
much argument and delay, the unpalatable demand was reluctantly assented to. Cooke, however,
whose nature it was, when opposed, only to become more exigent, was not himself appeased; for,
as the notes "unpleasing to a Yankee ear" were sounded, with a majestic wave of his hand he
silenced the unwilling music, and, "Standing, if you please," was as dictatorially as fearlessly
pronounced, to the consternation of the audience. So much had, however, already been accorded,
that it was not deemed matter of much moment to concede the rest: and however ungracefully
the attitude of respect was assumed, the national hymn was performed amidst grimace and muttering;
Cooke beating time with his foot,--nodding significantly and satisfactorily at "Confound their
politics;" and occasionally taking a pinch of snuff, as, in his royal robes, he triumphantly
contemplated the astonished and indignant audience. It ended:--"Richard was himself again,"
and "Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer" was given with equal emphasis,
feeling, and effect.

At the time that greater performer, the elephant, made his appearance on the boards, his own
board became a subject of no trifling consideration with the managers, particularly as the
African had taken a predilection for rum, which the new actor used to quaff with extraordinary
zest. On one occasion Cooke was missing from a morning rehearsal, and all had been some time
in waiting for the tragedian, when the messenger whom Kerable despatched in search of him,
returned grinning to the green-room. "Where is Mr. Cooke, sir?" demanded Kemble. "He is below
breakfasting with the elephant, sir!" was the reply.

It was too much for Cooke, after having so frequently disappointed full houses, to be obliged
to play to an empty theatre. It was like playing whist with dummy. However, towards the close
of the O. P. war, (which, by the way, excited more the attention of the Parisians than the
national contest in which we were engaged,) the public had adopted the plan of never commencing
operations until half-price, to the injury of the manager's purse. It was during the earlier
acts of "The Man of the World," that Cooke, in performing to "a beggarly account of empty boxes,"
was addressed by one of the actors, in accordance with the scene, in a whisper; when the elevated
comedian, casting a glance around, bitterly observed, "Speak out: there need be no secret.
No one hears us." Poor Cooke could not plead in excuse what an actor did on being hissed for
too sober a representation of a drunken part, "Ladies and gentlemen, I beg your pardon: but
it is really the first time I ever was intoxicated."

His death was in singular accordance with his taste through life. He sought the banks of the
Brandywine, and whether it were that the composition of its stream so little responded to its
title as to prey upon his spirits, or from some other cause, there he "drank his last."

DICKEY SUETT.

I met with him once in a house situated on the very confines of Beef and Law; on the line of
demarcation between the theatres and Lincoln's Inn; a sort of debateable ground between the
spouters and ranters of the stage, and the eaters of commons, by either of which party it was
frequented. Around a large table in the parlour sat a motley group. There were ragged wits,
well-dressed students, new-fledged actors, a hackney writer or so, an Irish barrister named
Shuter, a Scotch reporter, and a hodge-podge of most discordant materials congregated under
the amalgamating power of Suett, who seemed, by the incongruity of his dress and diversified
manner, to have studied the various tastes of those he swayed, and to be the comprehensive
representative of each of the strange beings he looked upon, with all of whom he would occasionally
identify himself with so much ease, that it were hard to say whether it was the result of labour
or of tact, of calculation, or the mere impulse of mother-wit. The ropes of his face, when
drawn taught, peculiarly commanded the attention of the Caledonian, while the sly and humorous
glance of his half-shut eye was acknowledged by the Hibernian to whom it was addressed; the
snow drift of powder which lay in patches on his long, straight hair, agreed with the taste
of his dramatic nursling; the far-extended cambric of white frill imposed upon the students,
while the unseemly rents in his coat at once compensated to the wits for what there might be
of gaudy or gay in his outward man. We were received with equal courtesy and ceremony by the
president; and were just seated, when a ballet-dancer of Drury-lane entered. As he was a Frenchman,
it became a question of national politeness: and Dicky chestered him to his dexter! and, as
was befitting, condescended to address him. "I am proud, sir," said Suett, with the formality
of Black Rod himself, "to do the honours of my country to the representative of a nation which
held my master Garrick in peculiar respect. He was a great actor, sir; a wonderful man! Your
Lekain, or any other Cain, could not come up to him, for he was Able, Pardon the pun. Oh, la!--but
he was vain, sir; vain as a peacock; it could not be of his person. Had he been, as Richard
has it, 'a marvellous proper man' like myself, one might have said something. He used to say,
I was too lean for Suett. Oh, dear. A votre santé, Monsieur, happy to see you on this side
the Channel. Never been to France yet, although in the Straits great part of my life, and not
unfrequently half seas over.--Well, sir, to return to Garrick. There was that man 'frae the
north,' who wrote the History of England and Roderick Random,--the latter a true story, they
say;--he who challenged Campbell the barrister, for calling him names, To bias the cause. Well,
sir, Davy refused one of his farces; but the wily Caledonian pocketed the affront, in coolly
observing, 'that he had nearly completed another volume of his history, and hoped he might
be permitted to name the British Roscius, the pride of his country, and all that sort of thing.'
It was a palpable hit, sir--the thing was settled--the manager managed; and Smelfungus retired,
without his manuscript, half sorry he had not added another scene to his farce. Well, sir,
the story got wind, and some days after Davy dined with a lawyer who had interested himself
vainly for a friend's comedy with him, when, in the course of conversation, the barrister observed
to Davy, before a large company, that he had nearly compiled another volume of The Statutes
at large (would they were all at large), and hoped he might be permitted to name the British
Roscius, the pride of his country. There was a roar at the expense of Garrick. 'The galled
jade' winced terribly:--he was touchy as tinder, sir:--never was Digest so ill-digested.'"

It was when the meteor-like popularity of little Betty was at its height that poor Suett fell
ill, at what he termed his town residence (a second-floor in a low street), and the pigmy Roscius,
having eaten too much fruit, kept all London in intense agony for his fate at the same moment.
Bulletins were exhibited in Southampton-row several times a-day, signed by numerous physicians.
Had he died, how posterity would have been befooled! Suett was then actually dying, yet would
he have his joke, and his last moments were cheered by the horse-laugh of the rabble assembled
to spell the bulletin suspended to "the second-floor bell," attested by the mark of the old
woman who attended him. "You shall be buried in Saint Paul's," said a friend. "Oh, la!" was
the dying ejaculation of the comedian.

New Monthly Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMERICAN TRAVELLING.

June 7th, at three in the morning, the steam-boat (which was of immense size, and on the high
pressure system) arrived at Albany, having come one hundred and sixty miles in seventeen hours,
including stoppages. I found that, unluckily, the mail-coach had left the place just before
our arrival, so I booked myself in an accommodation-stage, which was to reach Boston (a distance
of one hundred and sixty miles) in three days, and entered the wretched-looking vehicle, with
a heavy heart, at eight o'clock.... The machine in which I travelled was slow and crowded.
The proprietor had undertaken to let us rest at night on the road; but we found that his notions
of rest were very imperfect, and that his night was one of the polar regions.--Having partaken
of a wretched dinner at Sand Lake, we arrived about one in the morning at Cheshire, where we
were to sleep.

By dint of most active exertion, I secured a bed to myself, the narrow dimensions of which
precluded the possibility of participation, and plunged into it with all possible haste, as
there was not a moment to be lost. Secure in "single blessedness," I was incredibly amused
at the compliments of nocturnal arrangement which passed around me among my Yankee companions.
They were nine in number, and occupied by triplets the three other beds which the room contained.
Whether it was with a view of preserving their linen unrumpled, or of enjoying greater space,
I cannot tell; but certain it is, that they divested themselves of clothing to a degree not
generally practised in Europe. A spirit of accommodation appeared to prevail; and it seemed
to be a matter of indifference whether to occupy the lateral portions of the bed, or the warmer
central position, except in one instance, where a gentleman protested against being placed
next to the wall, as he was in the habit of chewing tobacco in his sleep!

At four o'clock in the morning we again set off, and, as much rain had fell in the night, the
roads were in a dreadful state. The coach company now consisted of nine passengers inside,
one on the top, (which, from its convex form, is a very precarious situation,) and three on
the box, besides the coachman, who sat on the knees of the unfortunate middle man,--an uneasy
burden, considering the intense heat of the weather.

It matters little to the American driver where he sits; he is indeed, in all respects, a far
different personage from his great-coated prototype in England. He is in general extremely
dexterous in the art of driving, though his costume is of a most grotesque description. Figure
to yourself a slipshod sloven, dressed in a striped calico jacket and an old straw hat, alternately
arranging the fragile harness of his horses, and springing again upon his box with surprising
agility; careless of the bones of his passengers, and confident in his skill and resources,
he scruples not frequently to gallop his coach over corderoy roads, (so called from being formed
of the trunks of trees laid transversely,) or dash it round corners, and through holes that
would appal the heart of the stoutest English coachman, however elated by gin, or irritated
by opposition. I was once whirled along one of these roads, when the leathers, (barbarous substitutes
for springs,) which supported the carriage gave way with a sudden shock. The undaunted driver
instantly sprang from his box, tore a stake from a rail fence by the road-side, laid it across
under the body of the coach, and was off again before I properly recovered the use of my senses,
which were completely bewildered by the jolting I had undergone. I can compare it to nothing
but the butt of Regulus, without the nails. When the lash and butt-end of the whip fail him,
he does not scruple to use his foot, as the situation of his seat allows the application of
it to his wheelers.

We dined at New Salem at six, and arrived at Petersham, where we were to sleep, at twelve o'clock
at night, having been twenty hours coming sixty miles.

Though tired and disgusted with my journey, the prospect of a short respite from this state
of purgatory was embittered during the last few miles by alarm at the idea of passing the night
with one, if not two, of my fellow-travellers; and I internally resolved rather to sleep upon
the floor.

After a desperate struggle, I succeeded, to my great joy, in securing a bed for myself, not,
however, without undergoing a severe objurgation from the landlady, who could not understand
such unaccommodating selfishness. Short were our slumbers. By the rigid order of the proprietor,
we were turned out the next morning at three, and pursued our journey.--De Roos's Personal
Narrative.

KANGAROO WAGGERY.

One of the largest tame kangaroos I have seen in the country is domiciled here, and a mischievous
wag he is, creeping and snuffing cautiously toward a stranger, with such an innocently expressive
countenance, that roguery could never be surmised to exist under it--when, having obtained
as he thinks a sufficient introduction, he claps his forepaws on your shoulders, (as if to
caress you,) and raising himself suddenly upon his tail, administers such a well-put push with
his hind-legs, that it is two to one but he drives you heels over head! This is all done in
what he considers facetious play, with a view to giving you a hint to examine your pockets,
and see what bon-bons you have got for him, as he munches cakes and comfits with epicurean
gout; and if the door be ajar, he will gravely take his station behind your chair at meal-time,
like a lackey, giving you an admonitory kick every now and then, if you fail to help him as
well as yourself.--Two Years in New South Wales.

A MAGNIFICENT WATERFALL.

My swarthy guides, although this was unquestionably the first time that they had ever led a
traveller to view the remarkable scenery of their country, evinced a degree of tact, as ciceroni,
as well as natural feeling of the picturesque, that equally pleased and surprised me. Having
forewarned me that this was not yet the waterfall, they now pioneered the way for about a mile
farther along the rocks, some of them keeping near, and continually cautioning me to look to
my feet, as a single false step might precipitate me into the raging abyss of waters, the tumult
of which seemed to shake even the solid rocks around us.

At length we halted, as before, and the next moment I was led to a projecting rock, where a
scene burst upon me, far surpassing my most sanguine expectations. The whole water of the river
(except what escapes by the subsidiary channel we had crossed, and by a similar one on the
north side) being previously confined to a bed of scarcely one hundred feet in breadth, descends
at once in a magnificent cascade of full four hundred feet in height. I stood upon a cliff
nearly level with the top of the fall, and directly in front of it. The beams of the evening
sun fell upon the cascade, and occasioned a most splendid rainbow; while the vapoury mists
arising from the broken waters, the bright green woods that hung from the surrounding cliffs,
the astounding roar of the waterfall, and the tumultuous boiling and whirling of the stream
below, striving to escape along its deep, dark, and narrow, path, formed altogether a combination
of beauty and grandeur, such as I never before witnessed. As I gazed on this stupendous stream,
I felt as if in a dream. The sublimity of nature drowned all apprehensions of danger; and,
after a short pause, I hastily left the spot where I stood to gain a nearer view from a cliff
that impended over the foaming gulf. I had just reached this station, when I felt myself grasped
all at once by four Korannas, who simultaneously seized hold of me by the arms and legs. My
first impression was, that they were going to hurl me over the precipice; but it was a momentary
thought, and it wronged the friendly savages. They are themselves a timid race, and they were
alarmed, lest my temerity should lead me into danger. They hurried me back from the brink,
and then explained their motive, and asked my forgiveness. I was not ungrateful for their care,
though somewhat annoyed by their officiousness.--Thompson's Travels in Southern Africa.

SETTING IN OF AN INDIAN MONSOON.

The shades of evening approached as we reached the ground, and just as the encampment was completed
the atmosphere grew suddenly dark, the heat became oppressive, and an unusual stillness presaged
the immediate setting in of the monsoon. The whole appearance of nature resembled those solemn
preludes to earthquakes and hurricanes in the West Indies, from which the east in general is
providentially free. We were allowed very little time for conjecture; in a few minutes the
heavy clouds burst over us.... I witnessed seventeen monsoons in India, but this exceeded them
all in its awful appearance and dreadful effects.

Encamped in a low situation, on the borders of a lake formed to collect the surrounding water,
we found ourselves in a few hours in a liquid plain. The tent-pins giving way, in a loose soil,
the tents fell down, and left the whole army exposed to the contending elements.

It requires a lively imagination to conceive the situation of a hundred thousand human beings
of every description, with more than two hundred thousand elephants, camels, horses, and oxen,
suddenly overwhelmed by this dreadful storm, in a strange country, without any knowledge of
high or low ground; the whole being covered by an immense lake, and surrounded by thick darkness,
which prevented our distinguishing a single object, except such as the vivid glare of lightning
displayed in horrible forms. No language can describe the wreck of a large encampment thus
instantaneously destroyed and covered with water, amid the cries of old men and helpless women,
terrified by the piercing shrieks of their expiring children, unable to afford them relief.
During this dreadful night more than two hundred persons and three thousand cattle perished,
and the morning dawn exhibited a shocking spectacle.--Forbes's Oriental Memoirs.

GRACE OF CARRIAGE.

This requires not only a perfect freedom of motion, but also a firmness of step, or constant
steady bearing of the centre of gravity over the base. It is usually possessed by those who
live in the country, and according to nature, as it is called, and who take much and varied
exercise. What a contrast is there between the gait of the active mountaineer, rejoicing in
the consciousness of perfect nature, and of the mechanic or shopkeeper, whose life is spent
in the cell of his trade, and whose body soon receives a shape and air that correspond to this!--and
in the softer sex, what a contrast is there, between her who recalls to us the fabled Diana
of old, and that other, who has scarcely trodden but on smooth pavements or carpets, and who,
under any new circumstances, carries her person as awkwardly as something to the management
of which she is not accustomed.

Arnott's Elements of Physics.

THE CAVALRY SCHOOL OF ST. GERMAINS.

Bonaparte frequently visited the school of infantry at St. Cyr, reviewed the cadets, and gave
them cold collations in the park. But he had never visited the school of cavalry since its
establishment, of which we were very jealous, and did all in our power to attract him. Whenever
he hunted, the cadets were in grand parade on the parterre, crying, "Vive l'Empereur!" with
all their young energies; he held his hat raised as he passed them; but that was all we could
gain. Wise people whispered that he never would go whilst they were so evidently expecting
him; that he liked to keep them always on the alert; it was good for discipline. The general
took another plan, and once allowed no sign of life about the castle when the emperor passed--it
was like a deserted place. But it did not take neither; he passed, as if there were no castle
there. It was desesperant. When, lo! the next day but one after I had spoken to him, he suddenly
galloped into the court of the castle, and the cry of the sentinel, "L'Empereur!" was the first
notice they had of it. He examined into every thing. All were in undress, all at work, and
this was what he wanted. In the military-schools the cadets got ammunition-bread, and lived
like well-fed soldiers; but there was great outcry in the circles of Paris against the bread
of the school of St. Germain's. Ladies complained that their sons were poisoned by it; the
emperor thought it was all nicety, and said no man was fit to be an officer who could not eat
ammunition-bread. However, being there, he asked for a loaf, which was brought, and he saw
it was villanous trash, composed of pease, beans, rye, potatoes, and every thing that would
make flour or meal, instead of good brown wheaten flour. He tore the loaf in two in a rage,
and dashed it against the wall, and there it stuck like a piece of mortar, to the great annoyance
of those whose duty it was to have attended to this. He ordered the baker to be called, and
made him look at it sticking. The man was in great terror first at the emperor's anger, but,
taking heart, he begged his majesty not to take his contract from him, and he would give good
bread in future; at which the emperor broke into a royal and imperial passion, and threatened
to send him to the galleys; but, suddenly turning round, he said, "Yes, he would allow him
to keep his contract, on condition that, as long as it lasted, he should furnish the school
with good white household bread, (pain de ménage,) such as was sold in the bakers' shops in
Paris; that he might choose that, or lose his contract;" and the baker thankfully promised
to furnish good white bread in future, at the same price.--Appendix to the 9th volume of Scott's
Life of Napoleon.

CENTRE OF GRAVITY, IN REFERENCE TO SEA-SICKNESS.

Man requiring so strictly to maintain his perpendicularity, that is, to keep the centre of
gravity always over the support of his body, ascertains the required position in various ways,
but chiefly by the perpendicularity or known position of things about him. Vertigo, and sickness
commonly called sea-sickness, because it most frequently occurs at sea, are the consequences
of depriving him of his standards of comparison, or of disturbing them.

Hence on shipboard, where the lines of the masts, windows, furniture, &c. are constantly changing,
sickness, vertigo, and other affections of the same class are common to persons unaccustomed
to ships. Many experience similar effects in carriages, and in swings, or on looking from a
lofty precipice, where known objects being distant, and viewed under a new aspect, are not
so readily recognised: also in walking on a wall or roof, in looking directly up to a roof,
or to the stars in the zenith, because, then, all standards disappear: on walking into a round
room, where there are no perpendicular lines of light and shade, as when the walls and roof
are covered with a spotted paper without regular arrangement of spot:--on turning round, as
in waltzing, or on a wheel; because the eye is not then allowed to rest on the standards, &c.

At night, or by blind people, standards belonging to the sense of touch are used; and it is
because on board ship, the standards both of sight and of touch are lost, that the effect is
so very remarkable.

But sea-sickness also partly depends on the irregular pressure of the bowels against the diaphragm,
as their inertia or weight varies with the rising and falling of the ship.

Arnott's Elements of Physics.

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BRITISH INSTITUTION.

